US	50867590	R172XFJI0SYY9B	076790818X	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	3	25	28	N	N	A good overview, that is just occasionally flawed	As many reviewers have noted, this book is very well written, but a little short on technical or scientific prowess. It is basically a history of the universe from the Big Bang to the appearance and development of modern humans. This broad overview of knowledge is discussed within the context of various historical and political developments and associated paradigm shifts which surround the progress of modern science. One could argue from the outset, that the social context of scientific developments within the book is probably more astutely expounded than the actual science itself, as Bill Bryson himself doesn't pretend to actually understand much of the science he discusses.<br /><br />Discussions include the Big Bang theory, relativity, the formation of matter and energy, the life cycle of stars, the rise and evolution of life on earth, the periodic table, the geological record and the age of the earth, mass extinctions, snowball earth, panspermia, ice ages, plate tectonics, DNA, cells, genes, DNA, the evolution of hominids, species extinction, disease, and greenhouse. As mentioned, human politics and paradigm shifts feature prominently in the discussion. There is a quite on emphasis on geology and biology in general (and its various subdisciplines), with rather less on chemistry and physics (not to mention such fields as evolutionary psychology, sociobiology, neurology and the brain, etc etc), which probably reflects Bill Bryson's personal preference, and understanding.<br /><br />The strength is the independant eye for detail and perspective, including weaknesses within scientific knowledge itself.<br /><br />For example, I've always wanted to know just how much hominid material specimens we actually have-well the answer is about 5000 specimens, categorised into about 20 species (controversially). Now I know. I've also wanted to know what are the main cruxs with regards to the origin of life, well apparently the unknowns include dehyrdration linkages, including, specifically, making proteins. Other (of the many) curiosities include the rejection by Einstein of early ideas regarding plate tectonics, and the endemic corruption within 19th century Victorian science.<br /><br />Weaknesses in the book include various technical faults, which Bill Bryson himself suspects are in the text. It seems that no trained geologist, for example, has actually edited the book, with such mistakes as implying the Hawaiian islands are part of the mid oceanic ridge system (p226). There is also an annoyingly consistent theme that goes like this: 'no plausible idea/theory has been proposed for scientific conundrum A or B'; or 'nobody has any idea'. Actually, more often than not solutions or theories HAVE been proposed for such a such a conundrum, but which have not been generally proved, or accepted.  This is not quite the same thing. In historical discussions, the same common oversimplification occurs: \\"nobody had any idea\\", or \\"nobody believed him\\", when more often than not, a significant few actually did. (eg Alverez's bolide impact theory, and various others).<br /><br />Also permeating throughout the text is a very conservative, and oftentimes, contradictory bias. He doesn't have, what you would call, a creative temperament. He is quite happy to accept knowledge by various leaps of faith (eg a universe arising from nothingness, which actually implies an eternal something), and in general, presents a very conservative scientific outlook, whilst at the same time repeatedly emphasising that science almost unanimously progresses through the overthrow of the very conservative bias which he himself often endorses. This is patently contradictory, but astute readers will notice an almost uncannily consistent, conservative bias towards the development of scientific knowledge, politics and progress. (An interesting example includes his statement that Arianism, an early christian movement/sect which rejected the idea of the Trinity, and of which Newtownwas a secret believer, was a \\"dangerous and heretical sect\\". He doesn't seem to note the danger of actually telling, or enforcing on people, the idea that 3 equals 1).<br /><br />In summary, the book is a useful and interesting read, (despite the above criticisms), strong on curious details, and particularly suited for the layperson  or average reader (which was in fact its main target audience). Hoewever readers of a more technical level might be just a little disappointed.wtown was a secret believer, was a \\"dangerous and heretical sect\\". He doesn't seem to note the danger of actually telling, or enforcing on people, the idea that 3 equals 1).  <br /> <br />In summary, the book is a useful and interesting read, (despite the above criticisms), strong on curious details, and particularly suited for the layperson  or average reader (which was in fact its main target audience). Hoewever readers of a more technical level might be just a little disappointed.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-26
US	50867590	R272Z6YKOP7WIV	095817265X	335723260	Wave-Finder Surf Guide  Indonesia	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The best guide to surfing in Indonesia so far	This is the most comprehensive guide to surf spots in Indonesia of the 3 or 4 that you can get, as of September 2005. This one has more spots, more info on each spot, and better general information (eg best tides, maps, swell direction, seasonal winds, access, prices, surf camps, transport issues etc). It also fits neatly in you pocket for travelling ease, but unfortunately, to keep prices down it is not the most robust little booklet (my pages fell out after just 2 weeks in Indo).<br /><br />Other surf guides for Indo include 'Surfing Indonesia Action Guide 2002/3' which has only one page on anything east of Sumba, only a few pages on Sumba itself, and nothing at all on Southern Sumatra, the Banyaks, and very little on the Mentawais. This guide has around 10 spots on Sumba alone, several spots on Rote and Sabu islands (east of Sumba), a handful of spots in Southern Sumatra, numerous Mentawai spots, but only short descriptions on the Banyaks and Simeuleu islands. 'Indo surf and Lingo' by Peter Neely has even less on some of the more out-of the-way-places, although the well-known spots it does describe have very good info (particularly Bali). World Stormrider Guides Volumes 1 and 2 is probably the second best buy for Indo surf information, with reasonably comprehensive information on a number of Indo areas, but these volumes are pricey, and the information is spread over 2 volumes (volume 3 out in 2007), and they are bulky books to travel with.<br /><br />There is a continuing general need for a comprehensive guide to Indonesian surfing, (which this Wavefinder Guide partly fulfils), as more and more spots are being discovered all the time. Part of the reason there isn't more available info is that there is always a bit of a war going on over whether to reveal new spots. In this guide for example, the authors note that they were tempted to put in some other little known gems, but didn't out of respect for those who spent months travelling throughout remote Indonesia finding them. And this guide still has MORE spots than any of the others. (Note also that surf operators don't always want any OTHER spots known, so they can get your money rather than someone else-which is partly why the Mentawais are now getting so crowded-there are other waves nearby on the Telos, and southern Sumatra that are just as/nearly as good).<br /><br />I am of the view that spots should be documented, published, and responsibly developed, which is pretty much what this guide is about, but I'd still like more info on eg Simeuleu, the Banyaks (eg \\"seek this spot out for yourself\\"), and northern and southern Sumatra in particular. There is also mention of several islands in this guide which just say they are very hard to get to, but have no info on the actual surf, (eg Engano Island).<br /><br />Anyone who has been out at Uluwatu on Bali in recent years will realise just how crowded this place has become, but there are numerous other lefts in Indo in the same class as Uluwatu, but which are only just being revealed and/or developed (eg Nembrala on Rote, Nihiwatu on Sumba-with a new resort, several in Southern Sumatra, Asu in the Hinakos, and Mengkudu in Sumba-also with a new resort). Even the Mentawais are now getting crowded. However, at least in my view, the more that become known, the less crowd pressures in all of them. There are literally hundreds of world class waves in Indo (some still not known/discovered-particularly in remote Sumatra). These, developed responsibly, will spread the crowds out, I should think. Mainland Sumatra is one place in particular that is going to open up further, because its cheap and there are very good waves-in fact there are oodles of coastline just waiting to be discovered/revealed, where you won't have to deal with crowds. This guide has some info on these, particulary in the Krui area, but not really enough (however other guides have none or barely any).<br /><br />One thing that many guides don't have enough of, is spot or area consistency ratings. One of the reasons places like G-Land are so good is that it breaks almost every day. There is a big difference between turning up a spot like that for a week or 3, and one which gets very good but only breaks once in a blue moon. Both the World Stormrider Guides volumes 1 and 2, and this Wavefinder guide, have at least some info on spot or coastline/island consistency per month, but in my view, not really enough. (eg There are some spot consistency descriptions, but not always, and no actual symbol for spot consistency. eg How often do the better breaks on the Banyaks get good, or the right on Mengkudu Island? Doesn't say.)<br /><br />One final point, there are some omissions on some spots wind or other information (in particular some with world class quality) (possibly deliberately).<br /><br />Despite the above criticisms, this is the best guide I could find as at September 2005, and I found it extremely useful whilst travelling through Indo.e reasons places like G-Land are so good is that it breaks almost every day. There is a big difference between turning up a spot like that for a week or 3, and one which gets very good but only breaks once in a blue moon. Both the World Stormrider Guides volumes 1 and 2, and this Wavefinder guide, have at least some info on spot or coastline/island consistency per month, but in my view, not really enough. (eg There are some spot consistency descriptions, but not always, and no actual symbol for spot consistency. eg How often do the better breaks on the Banyaks get good, or the right on Mengkudu Island? Doesn't say.)    One final point, there are some omissions on some spots wind or other information (in particular some with world class quality) (possibly deliberately).    Despite the above criticisms, this is the best guide I could find as at September 2005, and I found it extremely useful whilst travelling through Indo.	2005-09-25
US	50867590	R21EFO3JTUSAW3	0953984028	315570584	The World Stormrider Guide Volume 2 (Stormrider Guides)	Books	3	32	35	N	Y	Useful, but could be better	The first 'World Stormrider Guide' (Volume 1) to world surf spots was a little bit better than this one, primarily because both the pictures and quality of the surf breaks listed were consistently better.<br /><br />In this edition, it seems some surf spots are listed to sell copies based on population, rather than surf quality (eg Texas, Perth-except Rottnest Island), or because of tourism (eg Venezuela -\\"waves are always small\\"), or because that is where the compilers thought they would like to have a holiday to research the information. And this leads to the second problem-some of the pictures are not up to the standard of a surf publication-many look like they were taken on a single day-stop on a surf trip, which were obviously not even close to the better days of surf at the spot. (Crumbling 2 foot beach breaks do not exactly make a publication). Everyone knows surf pictures are usually exceptional for a particular spot, but at least they know how good it can get.<br /><br />The detail is as good or better than the first (ie water temperature, swell size, consistency, wind, costs, local stuff, spots highlighted in bold), but the pictures could definitely have been outsourced a bit more. (Hell, I've got better pictures on some spots on some of these-Lennox Head for example is rated as \\"one of the best right hand points in Australia\\" (in the top ten or so, along with the likes of Angourie, Burleigh, Kirra, Snapper, National Park Noosa, Winkipop, Bells, North Point, Mays)-yet the picture shows dribbly 3-4 footers-I've got pics which are better).<br /><br />And also, it isn't much value listing so MANY places which are at best average, or too inconsistent (eg like a number in the Carribean-obviously for the American market, the Seychelles-\\"very small\\", Northwest Phillippines and Vietnam-\\"always small\\"). A few average spots is ok, (or a really good spot but which is inconsistent), but there is too many spots which basically show you that it isn't worth going there (at least to surf, that is). Who wants to travel around the world to surf expensive 2 foot dribblers? (I can get that on an average day in Sydney). Quality, cheap, and uncrowded is what everyone wants-as well as the all-important consistency-ie often breaking!.(Hell, I know some spots in Australia that get absolutely epic, but only a couples of times a year!). In this respect a little more attention could be paid to details on consistency in general-it gives swell consistency/month, but a bit more detail here could be useful.And there needs to be much better differentiation between the very average areas and the really good ones; listing average ones worldwide is ok (I suppose) for completeness, but one can't easily tell from the information provided the DIFFERENCE IN QUALITY between somewhere like Nias, and the Seychelles. There is a HUGE difference if you want to go to one of these just to surf. A 5 star box system or someting like it might be useful.<br /><br />Particularly inviting were places like New Zealand (the place in general just gets better the more you look at it-like the first place shown after the inside cover-Mangamaunu Point-looks good), Peru/Lima area, Baja California (with the `seven sisters' stretch of pointbreaks), the `epic' Kumari Point in the Andamans, Rapa Nui, mainland Sumatra, Philip Island (I've seen better pics), Byron Bay (I've got better pics), Garden Route South Africa (poor quality pics), and the whole pacific side of Central America. Numerous other places like Madagascar, various Pacific Islands, Oman, Brazil, Venezeula, northwest Philippines, Vietnam, northern Spain, Angola, etc didn't exactly overwhelm with quality shots.<br /><br />A final issue is that always difficult one, the \\"secret spot\\". I am one of those people who think the surf is for everyone, and you may as well show on the map where the spot or picture shown actually is. There are several spots described, some with pictures, but which are not shown on the accompanyingmaps (eg the Philippine Dream-pic looks good anyway, and \\"Secret Spot\\" South Africa). (They also say in Volume 1 that they are keeping some spots secret). There is also the annoying occasional picture which has no reference to where it is at all. Some people might like surfers to drive past `their' world-class spot, but it is pretty frustrating to go half way round the world, spend hard earned money, get home and find out you missed the best spot, and you can't go back. And there is always the paradox that others (eg businesses) might want the spot known. Who benefits from the secret? Not you, me or the local businesses-a small group of local surfers only. Also, the world is a big place, and more world-class spots might thin things out a bit.s good anyway, and \\"Secret Spot\\" South Africa). (They also say in Volume 1 that they are keeping some spots secret). There is also the annoying occasional picture which has no reference to where it is at all. Some people might like surfers to drive past `their' world-class spot, but it is pretty frustrating to go half way round the world, spend hard earned money, get home and find out you missed the best spot, and you can't go back. And there is always the paradox that others (eg businesses) might want the spot known. Who benefits from the secret? Not you, me or the local businesses-a small group of local surfers only. Also, the world is a big place, and more world-class spots might thin things out a bit.	2004-11-13
US	50867590	R2SAI8COV6CI6D	0192803409	531868996	The Enigmas of Easter Island	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	A great read of a great place.	This is an excellent, up-to date (2003), fairly easy read of an astounding place, Rapa Nui, the island in the South Pacific better known as Easter Island. This is in fact an updated edition of an earlier 1992 edition, that has been revised to incorporate new ideas and developments in research into a place which has seen quite a deal of academic interest and debate over the last few decades.<br />It is, as the title suggests, mostly a discussion of some of the more enigmatic and mysterious aspects of this small island at the 'edge of the world', so to speak. Discussions include how the Polynesians got there in the first place (several thousand kilometres from just about anywhere), what happened to the island's original flora and fauna, why there are now virtually no trees on the island, why and how they built and transported the enormous statues, why their culture seemingly underwent several periods of cultural implosion, and how they came to have their own system of rudimentary symbolic writing-no small thing incidentally- since it is only one of a handful of societies where a form of writing is thought to have arisen independently (although this is debated for Easter Island).<br />Rest assured, once one delves into the detail and human richness of the history and culture on Easter Island, (past what one hears via the grapevine or via populist travel articles), one begins to find things one did not quite expect. Put simply, it becomes a kind of mirror of the human psyche, of humans in close interaction with their primeval environment, with all its ghastliness and beauty, and their myriad inclinations towards both the tragic and the beautiful.<br />Take for example, the extreme feeling of isolation that a seafaring culture must have felt, of being stranded, once all the original tree species had been cut down and driven to extinction, and they couldn't make any more sea craft (something a number of environmentalists have pointed out). Imagine the keen loss of traditional values that must have been felt, once the statues were thrown down (in a probable revolution of some sort), or the desperate alternative worship of man-like birds, who could fly away into the sea and escape their lonely, now barren, isle. And what about the island's trees in the first place-there was a highly prized native palm on the island, that could be sourced to transport statues, make ropes, make sea craft, and provide an alcoholic sap amongst other things, which was driven to extinction by the islanders-whether by over-exploitation, neglect, or through an inability to adapt and change, or all of them. And there are even suggestions that is was in the making and transporting of the statues themselves which at least partially caused the islander's ultimate cultural downfall-the transport of the statues required the felling of timber, and if one of these two practices had to cease or change, it probably wasn't the felling of timber.<br />It is difficult to know for certain what variety of factors were responsible for the extinction of the prized trees, but no doubt isolation, neglect, and an inability to change must have been major factors. In addition, the Polynesian rat evidently had a big appetite for native palm nuts (teeth marks in nuts). Without the timber from the trees, soil erosion and degradation set in, and most importantly they couldn't make wooden boats to fish, and so they began to starve. Archaeological evidence also indicates an outbreak of warfare at about the same time as the trees became extinct. There is indeed a myriad of archaeological evidence here to delight anyone interested in the rise and fall of nations and cultures to be sure, scattered in caves, swamps, dwellings, quarries and various other places on the island.<br />Another interesting discovery is the preserved fossilised roots of native palm trees, which are almost identical to the modern day, very versatile Chilean species. Also of interest to me was the subtle developmentfrom religious ritual and symbolism, to depiction of the same on favourable rock outcrops, ultimately to communication of the same on wooden articles-the Rongorongo script. In short-'religious ritual' to 'writing'. Writing originating as art inspired by cultural isolation? There are suggestions here that it was the Spanish who influenced this trend towards writing, but after reading the debate here, I'm not convinced. The extreme isolation to me suggests a kind of inspired artistic innovation or expression. Readers might also be surprised to learn that the origin of the Polynesians themselves is from Taiwan in about 4000 BC-an island nation, that has frequent political troubles, and I presume also may have had, around 4000 BC??.<br />There are various other discussions on the geology, geography, climate, the infamous Kon Tiki expedition, genetic research into islander origins, Polynesian dispersal and seafaring, archaeological excavations (of course), agriculture, general ecology, statues and ceremonies, food issues, the western human impact from the 18th century onwards, the introduction of smallpox, western religion, slave trading from Peru in the 19th century, and revised views on issues concerning resource sustainability, and ultimate parallels with the rest of the world. It is worth mentioning here that the first edition received some criticism for failing to note differences in resource availability with continental landmasses (which have a larger degree of alternative resources, and further discoveries of eg minerals), and these issues have been incorporated in this revised edition. Comparisons are also made with two other pacific islands, although in somewhat limited detail, Mangaia and Tikopia, which experienced similar ecological and cultural crises, but apparently managed to 'see them through'. There are also a number of black and white and colour plates, and quite a few diagrams which provide good support to the discussions.<br />An excellent overview of a thoroughly fascinating, and always surprising place.ment from religious ritual and symbolism, to depiction of the same on favourable rock outcrops, ultimately to communication of the same on wooden articles-the Rongorongo script. In short-'religious ritual' to 'writing'. Writing originating as art inspired by cultural isolation? There are suggestions here that it was the Spanish who influenced this trend towards writing, but after reading the debate here, I'm not convinced. The extreme isolation to me suggests a kind of inspired artistic innovation or expression. Readers might also be surprised to learn that the origin of the Polynesians themselves is from Taiwan in about 4000 BC-an island nation, that has frequent political troubles, and I presume also may have had, around 4000 BC??.<br />There are various other discussions on the geology, geography, climate, the infamous Kon Tiki expedition, genetic research into islander origins, Polynesian dispersal and seafaring, archaeological excavations (of course), agriculture, general ecology, statues and ceremonies, food issues, the western human impact from the 18th century onwards, the introduction of smallpox, western religion, slave trading from Peru in the 19th century, and revised views on issues concerning resource sustainability, and ultimate parallels with the rest of the world. It is worth mentioning here that the first edition received some criticism for failing to note differences in resource availability with continental landmasses (which have a larger degree of alternative resources, and further discoveries of eg minerals), and these issues have been incorporated in this revised edition. Comparisons are also made with two other pacific islands, although in somewhat limited detail, Mangaia and Tikopia, which experienced similar ecological and cultural crises, but apparently managed to 'see them through'. There are also a number of black and white and colour plates, and quite a few diagrams which provide good support to the discussions.<br />An excellent overview of a thoroughly fascinating, and always surprising place.	2004-01-19
US	50867590	R34WL4NV8ZMMBO	0670031518	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The walls are coming down	This is a difficult book to read, or review. It is very rich in detail, and politically charged. Put simply, it discusses in detail the old gene-culture/nature-nurture relationship, highlighting in particular how many social structures and various ideologies are in fact rooted in an outmoded view of human nature-the so-called \\"Blank Slate\\", or tabular rasa. (Even our language is rife with it, although this is gradually changing). The book's value above the average however, in this widely debated genre, is that it isn't just a rehash of what everybody knows-that the truth for most of these things lies somewhere in between-rather it details just how many `Blank Slate'-type assumptions people *unconsciously* follow, particularly within both politics and the humanities, but which are being progressively disproved by observational science. It is also very up to date with current research in a range of fields including economics, evolutionary psychology, history, ecology, biology, philosophy, neurology etc.<br />It highlights in particular how humanity can actually benefit from various biological discoveries, in particular in terms of socio-political theory and resistance to various political ideologies. (A common underlying theme of the book is that resistance to the corruption of power may be best attempted through facing the realities of what science says about ourselves, rather than by denying or ignoring it). It attempts to show that despite common misconceptions, the progressive harmonising of biology into social theory is providing a range of positive social benefits and new discoveries. These are too many to be detailed here, but include a range of discussions on violence, gender, the arts, politics, children and education, history, inequality, imperfectibility, determinism, and nihilism.<br />Who would have thought Galapagonian finches could have had anything to do with collective farming, or Nazi youth camps? Or that the geology of cold and lonely rock outcrops on the coast of Scotland, and world geography and trade (location, location, location-Mr Diamond), could have anything to do with education, raising our children, farming, or increasing our health?<br />Mr Pinker brings a range of scientific discoveries into a stream of age-old socio-political views, with a flamboyance and freshness that is long overdue. The Noble Savage, the Blank Slate, the Ghost in the machine, (if you haven't heard much about these-you are in for a crash course) and several other common old assumptions and ideas are discussed in the light of new discoveries in the natural and human (actually these two are the same thing) world.<br />Slowly but inevitably, old ideas, many rooted in misguided political ideologies, (or in some cases the fear of them), are breaking down like the proverbial Berlin Wall. The reason for them to be simply exists no longer. Or to put it more accurately, perhaps there never was a good reason for many of them to be. (Other than, perhaps, the psycho-social benefits of wishful thinking, as Mr Pinker alludes to in George Orwell's 1984-those who swallow the party line best are generally those who can't comprehend it). Or perhaps it may be best said that old ideas are gradually being cast aside, because there are better and more peaceful ways of living in the world.<br />Mr Pinker's understanding of social theory and human nature is generally very sound. But I did have a few quibbles with some of his discussions. I don't think, for example, that Mr Pinker's strong reliance on the `left versus right' political dichotomy is ultimately true to reality, and I also think that he himself overstates his case at times. (eg `The Tragic Vision is turning out to be true'- the term `tragic' itself is contextual and relative-something strong in biological theory, and also eg the `universality of ethnocentrism'-strictly speaking nothing really is ever universal in the *absolute* sense-eg spandrels and biological co-option abounds). But he does present his arguments with an astuteness and a flair for language and the written word that is quite rare.<br />The general theme of this book is that our biological heritage does not constrain us, so much as enrich us. The devil is in the detail (too many to discuss in short review), but it is a sad fact that much of our social heritage has blinded us to this fact, for too long. Such details are discussed at length in this book.<br />It is a long book, politically very sensitive, very detailed, but worth ploughing through to the end. In the genre of nature/nurture and evolutionary-social theory it is indeed amongst the very best, as my work collegues also attest.does present his arguments with an astuteness and a flair for language and the written word that is quite rare.<br />The general theme of this book is that our biological heritage does not constrain us, so much as enrich us. The devil is in the detail (too many to discuss in short review), but it is a sad fact that much of our social heritage has blinded us to this fact, for too long. Such details are discussed at length in this book.<br />It is a long book, politically very sensitive, very detailed, but worth ploughing through to the end. In the genre of nature/nurture and evolutionary-social theory it is indeed amongst the very best, as my work collegues also attest.	2003-12-30
US	50867590	R1COCMHJCCFBMC	1865086738	474313454	Spirit of the Wild Dog: The World of Wolves, Coyotes, Foxes, Jackals and Dingoes	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Their spirit lives on.	This book posed a few intriguing questions for me, in which animal lovers, biologists, social theorists and others might also be interested. The authors have backgrounds in animal behaviour, neuroscience in animals, and animal communication, cognition and welfare.<br />Dogs belong to the family Canidae, ground-living carnivores with around 36 species, although some of these species interbreed. The lineage is around 40-50 million years old, originating in North America. They reached Europe around 5-7 million years ago, where the well known grey wolf is though to have evolved, who then passed back into North America, amongst other places, around 700,000 years ago. All domestic dogs appear to derive from one ancestral species-Canus lupus-the grey wolf. Latest evidence suggests dogs were first domesticated around 135,000 years ago, perhaps as old as early homo sapien (p12).<br />A variety of wild dog characteristics can be found in the domestic versions, with some notable exceptions.<br />Short-sightedness is probably a domestic trait only (p45). All dogs move their ears and head around to pinpoint location-originally location of prey. Domestic dogs have two photopigments in their eyes, unlike humans with three, meaning they are slightly colour blind (compared to us). Smell is, of course, well developed, and they can tell which direction an animal/person was moving-an important hunting ability (p49). Wild pups must not stray from the den, and so domesticates can reasonably learn to stay at home. Howling (in wolves) is used to increase distances between clans and individuals. (I think there is more here-sex?, hunting prospects?, group development?). Sniffing in all dogs is intimately related to pair bonding and territorial marking. There is a variety of vocalisation forms in wild dogs, such as short distance barks, yelps, and whining, with some co-opted for dog-human communication-eg human sentence upwards inflections reflect some whining communication, etc. Barking, though variable in type and frequency, occurs in all canids, despite common misconceptions. Regurgitating food to the young is also common to all canids (I have a collie who as a puppy managed to steal my dinner from my mouth once-totally innocently of course).<br />Grey wolves, as opposed to some other canids, have a strong vertical social structure. Occasionally submissiveness is ignored by a superior, due to hierarchal threat, or occasionally the inferior won't submit, and an individual may occasionally be forced out of a clan entirely (sound familiar? p94).<br />Also of interest is that African wild dogs have a flatter social structure than grey wolves, which appears to be proportional to their `harsher' environment-that is, elements of in-group competition and in-group rivalry are reduced when conditions become more hazardous-group hierarchy in this sense is an evolved 'luxury', so to speak (p103-104). (This idea has interesting implications to social inequality in humans). Also, species which have a high degree of predatory enemies have less infighting and high co-operation rates (p141). Also of note is that an African wild dog rejected by its clan has little chance of survival from both predators and through stress-induced immune deficiency.<br />In a social hierarchy, ritualised and stereotyped acts are common (sound familiar?). Sometimes a group of young males may turn on an alpha male and expel or kill him (sound familiar)?. Interestingly, being an alpha male may not relate to being the best hunter-appearance, confidence and adherence to social rituals give social status, not killing/athletic success.<br />In many clans every female comes into oestrus at the same time, and pseudo pregnancies also occur in females within a clan, where they produce milk and may even suckle pups not of their own-obviously a group survival strategy (p114). (It is not clear whether this only occurs in related individuals-selfish gene theorists take note!). Higher levels of oestrogen in African wild dogs create more male pups in their litters (p117). I am also aware that sometimes pups within a litter have different fathers.<br />The larger the pack the larger the prey that is hunted (p123). Dingos in Australia also use deception in hunting. Interestingly, wolves in captivity are known to watch gatekeepers open latches and learn to do this themselves, whilst domesticates generally do not (p147). Also, wolves wait until the coast is clear before attempting to escape. This 'escape intelligence' has obviously been somewhat nullified by domestication. However, wolves are not willing to learn tricks, unlike domesticates. Dogs are also better than chimps in reading a persons eyes-a trait of group hunting (p158-9). 'Glancing' is observed in dogs between food bowls and owners, or between balls and owners.<br />It is also suggested that human smell is so poor partly because we have used dogs for hunting in our recent evolutionary history (p165-6). (It has even been suggested elsewhere that language may have been facilitated by this reduction in our need for smell, whereby flatter faces and the migration of the larynx to the back of the throat increased vocalisation range).<br />The future of the wild dog is unclear. It is stated that many rehabilitation and reintroduction programs of all species fail due to problems with animal behaviour-eg they haven't learnt to hunt, they lack predator cognition, they don't follow park boundaries etc. It appears group species like the wolf are less likely to survive in closer contact with humans than the more parasitic and solitary species such as foxes, coyotes, and also cats. (Once group habits are fractured, group species tend to perish). I like to think the 'spirit of the wild dog', so to speak, `knows' this (or in Darwinian form-a portion of the gene pool has been selected)-and so lives on within the human group. Maybe the unfairly expelled wolf from the pack lives on today in my lounge room.<br />Opportunity, adaptability, co-operation, humility, wildness-we have much to learn from them.rogen in African wild dogs create more male pups in their litters (p117). I am also aware that sometimes pups within a litter have different fathers. <br />The larger the pack the larger the prey that is hunted (p123). Dingos in Australia also use deception in hunting. Interestingly, wolves in captivity are known to watch gatekeepers open latches and learn to do this themselves, whilst domesticates generally do not (p147). Also, wolves wait until the coast is clear before attempting to escape. This 'escape intelligence' has obviously been somewhat nullified by domestication. However, wolves are not willing to learn tricks, unlike domesticates. Dogs are also better than chimps in reading a persons eyes-a trait of group hunting (p158-9). 'Glancing' is observed in dogs between food bowls and owners, or between balls and owners. <BR>It is also suggested that human smell is so poor partly because we have used dogs for hunting in our recent evolutionary history (p165-6). (It has even been suggested elsewhere that language may have been facilitated by this reduction in our need for smell, whereby flatter faces and the migration of the larynx to the back of the throat increased vocalisation range).<br />The future of the wild dog is unclear. It is stated that many rehabilitation and reintroduction programs of all species fail due to problems with animal behaviour-eg they haven't learnt to hunt, they lack predator cognition, they don't follow park boundaries etc. It appears group species like the wolf are less likely to survive in closer contact with humans than the more parasitic and solitary species such as foxes, coyotes, and also cats. (Once group habits are fractured, group species tend to perish). I like to think the 'spirit of the wild dog', so to speak, `knows' this (or in Darwinian form-a portion of the gene pool has been selected)-and so lives on within the human group. Maybe the unfairly expelled wolf from the pack lives on today in my lounge room. <br />Opportunity, adaptability, co-operation, humility, wildness-we have much to learn from them.	2003-09-03
US	50867590	R1BV0ZDG8X1BL3	0520237374	469618670	Exploring Consciousness	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The brain is revealing its secrets.	In this excellent overview of current research (2003) into the brain, Rita Carter, a medical journalist, certainly has her finger on the pulse (or is that prefrontal cortex?). Although dealing with very difficult concepts, Ms Carter has done an admirable job in simplifying it for the non-brain specialist, like myself. Nevertheless it can still be a challenging read at times.<br />The book begins by introducing the idea that our experience is not necessarily the same as the external world. The first chapter concerns discussion of \\"the stream of illusion\\". Like `constant vision', our experience of `constant consciousness' appears to be a merging of projected separate experiences -as in a film. (The quality thereof partly depending on the acting, one of which incidentally, is you). \\"The construction of our experience depends on merging the consciousness of one moment into the next\\" (p18). In both our experience of vision and consciousness therefore, some processing selection, by the brain, is implied. There is also a time gap. 1/5 of a second apparently passes between vision received by the brain, and our experience of it (p25). It is similar with our experience of consciousness, ie the 'illusion of immediacy' (p27). It is stated here that we apparently experience our lives (ie consciousness) 1/2 second out of sync with the external world (p29). (If you don't understand how tennis players return serves under this arrangement-don't worry-the brain just projects the real-time (but unconscious) return to us, and then backdates our experience of it, apparently (p29)).<br />Our tendency to miss things in our visionary field we are not 'primed' for is termed \\"inattentional blindness\\", whilst \\"change blindness\\", is when one fails to notice any change in their visual field, which can be surprisingly significant. (Sound like someone you know?). Similar `misses' also apply to consciousness, and therefore also to beliefs etc.<br />At least 6 main ideas of consciousness are outlined-'property dualism' that mind is an aspect of matter, 'identity'-that mind=matter, 'agnostic'-that consciousness and matter are the one thing but not understood, 'emergence-that mind emerges from physical processes but is not identical to them, 'functionalism'-that mind is a process, and 'Cartesian dualism'-that mind and matter are two different things. Add to this 'panpsychism-everything has a 'spark' of life' or 'mind', elimativism, identity theory (eg Searle), and mysterians-those who believe we just can't figure out what consciousness is because we don't have the equipment to understand it, like a cat just can't do calculus (at least we don't think so)- the list goes on and on, providing endless hyper-activity for many philosophers, which is not altogether a bad thing.<br />Monism-the idea that consciousness and the observed universe are one, (and send your money to the following address to receive this Holy Oneness...sorry couldn't resist) is opposed to dualism -consciousness and the external world being two different things. Simple, except that The Matrix Has You.<br />First order and higher order theories of consciousness are discussed, in which `doubling up' of knowledge is suggested to generate the experience of consciousness-the higher order of `awareness' essentially being a representation of a representation. (The problem of infinite regress here could be nullified by the brain (?)).<br />Despite some contrary views, words are not essential for self-monitoring (p36). Einstein once said something like-\\"most of my thoughts are in concepts, not words\\". I happen to agree entirely-implying that words are essential for thought seems like ... nonsense to me.<br />One intriguing concept brought out by recent research is whether something that is emergent can have effects that work *downwards*, a concept sort of new to science. p69-\\"But if consciousness is something else- the non- physical thing it seems to be, there is no obvious way, given what we know of thematerial universe, that it can affect a change in the underlying brain state\\". (I actually disagree).<br />Other discussions include: consciousness as an emergent brain property, the concept of the quale (experience of eg `red'), the Chinese Room, the self, 'backrooms of the brain', (eg autistic savants and enhanced special abilities), the delayed maturity of the human prefrontal cortex (making us rather silly as teenagers?), bottom up and top down processing within the brain (similar to how social organisations function), petit mal (temporary unconsciousness), 'free will' and readiness potential (sounds like 'free will battery' to me-p85), spandrels (Mr Gould) and consciousness are also given punctuated adaptive discussion (yours truly), and are we ultimately super egotistical zombies-that is machines which have the contrived vanity to think they are something other than machines? p96-99. I'll let you decide.<br />And finally, spirituality. Suggested here to be just another brain function (I agree, but a small kernel of doubt remains), despite much emotive appeal to the contrary. And what about formalised (and politicised) spirituality, ie 'religion'? Hardly gets a mention in this book, as it also didn't in Ms Carter's other very good book 'Mapping the Mind'. ('The God Part of the Brain' is a useful read in this field, incidentally). Methinks the neuroscientists are avoiding discussing this topic-too many thorns in that briar patch- evidently. And yet, spirituality and religion IS one of the things the brain consistently does, and this book IS about brain research. (Whether one is for or against 'religion' is not the issue, understanding brain processes behind it can only help to reduce obvious problems associated with it). There is a gaping vacuum here in brain research, I suggest. And we know what nature thinks of vacuums.<br />Something to think about. I also would have liked to see more evolutionary biology, but otherwise a very good overview.he material universe, that it can affect a change in the underlying brain state\\". (I actually disagree). <br />Other discussions include: consciousness as an emergent brain property, the concept of the quale (experience of eg `red'), the Chinese Room, the self, 'backrooms of the brain', (eg autistic savants and enhanced special abilities), the delayed maturity of the human prefrontal cortex (making us rather silly as teenagers?), bottom up and top down processing within the brain (similar to how social organisations function), petit mal (temporary unconsciousness), 'free will' and readiness potential (sounds like 'free will battery' to me-p85), spandrels (Mr Gould) and consciousness are also given punctuated adaptive discussion (yours truly), and are we ultimately super egotistical zombies-that is machines which have the contrived vanity to think they are something other than machines? p96-99. I'll let you decide.<br />And finally, spirituality. Suggested here to be just another brain function (I agree, but a small kernel of doubt remains), despite much emotive appeal to the contrary. And what about formalised (and politicised) spirituality, ie 'religion'? Hardly gets a mention in this book, as it also didn't in Ms Carter's other very good book 'Mapping the Mind'. ('The God Part of the Brain' is a useful read in this field, incidentally). Methinks the neuroscientists are avoiding discussing this topic-too many thorns in that briar patch- evidently. And yet, spirituality and religion IS one of the things the brain consistently does, and this book IS about brain research. (Whether one is for or against 'religion' is not the issue, understanding brain processes behind it can only help to reduce obvious problems associated with it). There is a gaping vacuum here in brain research, I suggest. And we know what nature thinks of vacuums. <br />Something to think about. I also would have liked to see more evolutionary biology, but otherwise a very good overview.	2003-07-09
US	50867590	R1HT8QMZSPSNJD	0452283701	885128653	Diamond: The History of a Cold-Blooded Love Affair	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Something shiny in the rough...	There is a type of stone which, when polished, refracts light more than other stones. All the world wonders about it.<br /><br />This is an interesting overview of diamond history and business. It details the history of humankind's fascination with one of the rarest of gems-the carbon tetrahedron. From the jungles of South America, to Canada's arctic north, to the Siberian tundra, to South and Central Africa, to the west coast of Africa, the Australian outback and elsewhere humans have searched for the mother lode-the diamond kimberlite/lamproite pipe-one of the rarest of geological formations, but also one of the richest of treasures-many billions of dollars worth in the richest pipes. And of course, where there is money, there is every breed of deceit, vulgarity and excess. In Africa, (and elsewhere), many have died from civil wars or have been murdered from the lust which seems to spring from this crystal refraction.<br /><br />The major players are outlined-eg DeBeers, BHP, and a long list of wily rogues and speculators who make and break their fortune on the flippancy of billion year old crustal pressure distribution. The process of diamond formation is described- from the formation of kimberlitic/lamproitic magma deep within the earth, to their eruptive surface craters, which are, incidentally, quite rare in geological time.<br /><br />Diamond indicators -purple 'G10' garnets, and green diopsides-indicate to geologists where diamonds may be found. Kids played with shiny bright stones, and diamonds could be picked out of the walls of brick farmhouses in 19th century South Africa, before the fantastically rich Kimberly and Premier pipes were found. Mine managers laughed when thousand-carat gems landed on their table, and threw them out the window in disbelief. Millions had also been washed down to the African Atlantic coast, where they are trawled today for considerable profit, the sea washing away the weaker gems and producing a high proportion of better gems. From the diamond mines of South Africa rose Cecil Rhodes, the 3,106 carat Cullinen gem, Ernest Oppenhemier, and De Beers, along with substantial wealth, slavery and a good deal of imperialist oppression. (J. Reader contends in \\"Africa-biography of a continent\\", that the strongly segregated capital-labour relations of the gold and gem mines of South Africa formed a precursor to Apartheid).<br /><br />Grade, shape, size and impurities within diamonds determine their prices, but it is not clear whether the finders always benefit, the money passes up the chain from the worker's mud and slime to the corporate mud and slime, and finally into what most people see-sparkles in shiny glass shop-cases.<br /><br />Some of the stories related to diamond stealing are worth a mention. In Namibia they would tie diamonds to pigeon feet and accomplaces would retrieve them from bird nests, high in the trees outside a diamond camp. Diamond-laden arrows would be shot over fences, until the time one hit a security truck patrolling the camp. Bodily orifices act like built-in security codes, unless you have the inclination for that kind of investigation. Re-sorted batches would be dispatched slightly lighter than the initial dispatch, since re-sorting is apparently not the same thing as initial sorting, at least not to some accountants, and to some dispatching managers (Australia). Decimal points and the significance of significant figures was lost in some London sorting houses, where mathematical finesse slumbered. Russian entrepenurial dealers enjoyed a game of re-distributing Russian diamond wealth after the breakup of Russian political wealth. Civil wars in recent years have been fought in Africa over shiny stones- where they are, who owns them, who finds them, who sells them and and who owns those who sell them. Coroporate business is fought elsewhere over the same pieces of stone.<br /><br />It's not all exploitation and corruption of course. Legitimate finds have made people and nations wealthy, particularly in Botswana, Australia and elsewhere. Lustrous gems have long been a symbol for commitment, love, and financial, personal and emotional investment, and have facilitated 'tying the knot', (rightly or wrongly) for millions, since time immemorial.<br /><br />In the book a quote is given that the entire diamond business rests on two supports-vanity and greed, in which the human race could be relied upon for a steady supply of both. This is not entirely true. There is also love, in which a steady supply, is also assured.<br /><br />And so the show goes on, but not without purpose or merit. She (or he) might love one more if only one could show her (or him) that refractory sparkle. A piece of glass might also do a similar thing, which too many, to their dismay, have paid good money for.tralia and elsewhere. Lustrous gems have long been a symbol for commitment, love, and financial, personal and emotional investment, and have facilitated 'tying the knot', (rightly or wrongly) for millions, since time immemorial.     In the book a quote is given that the entire diamond business rests on two supports-vanity and greed, in which the human race could be relied upon for a steady supply of both. This is not entirely true. There is also love, in which a steady supply, is also assured.    And so the show goes on, but not without purpose or merit. She (or he) might love one more if only one could show her (or him) that refractory sparkle. A piece of glass might also do a similar thing, which too many, to their dismay, have paid good money for.	2003-05-17
US	50867590	REKC8KR9EY6SE	0679409793	903112807	Africa: A Biography of the Continent	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Technically questionable, but a good overview.	This book attempts to answer a question -why is it that the human population of Africa had risen to just 47 million by AD 1500, whilst the out of Africa population, (starting out as perhaps 100 from 100,000 years ago), had reached 300 million? (p3). What is it about Africa which makes things difficult for modern humans, even though we (very likely) originated there?<br />The books starts, where it should, with geology. It is a very ancient and varied landmass, also containing some of the world's richest deposits of gold, platinum, palladium, chromium, gold and diamonds, which have driven many economies of modern Africa. It collided with Eurasia about 30 million years ago (Ma), and it is possible that primates entered Africa from Eurasia and North America, as no primates older than 35Ma have been found in Africa, but are abundant between 65-40Ma ago in North America and Europe (p31).<br />Africa has had more of its land surface covered with tropical forest, for a longer period, than any other part of the globe (p35). The forests have also shifted markedly across lattitudinal zones over time. A string of primate species found in Africa are detailed- Aegyptopithecus (35Ma), Proconsul (17Ma), Kenyapithicus (15Ma), Australopithicus (4Ma). Unfortunately, there is a stratigraphical and corresponding fossil gap between 15-4Ma, meaning our deeper origins are obscured. Between 14-4 Ma only about 0.1% of the continent are rocks of this age, with the best example being the Tugen Hills in Kenya, with an almost complete succession. (For curiosity -there is a 20cm bone bed in this sequence at 15.4-15.6Ma, which almost defies geological explanation-p49). Importantly, this sequence shows that during the time of hominid evolution, \\"a mosaic of grassland, woodland, and patches of forest which exists today has charaterised the region for at least the last 15.5 million years\\" p52, \\"If homonids evolved in East Africa...they did so in an ecologically diverse setting\\"p53.<br />Mr Reader argues the rather controversial view that, in Africa, competition for resources is a more dominant factor in speciation than climate change, and in this he includes the hominid line (p41,ch4,5,6). The upright bipedal hominid line which evolved, he argues, were 'migratory nomads', taking advantage of an hitherto unexploited resource-the emergance of migrating herds on the savannah (p62-63). Homo habilis, Homo erectus (who left Africa), and finally Homo sapien are discussed-whom he argues came out of Africa around 0.1Ma. He skips a few species though along this line, and contends that the development of larger brains had alot to do with an elaborate whole-body cooling system for the naked upright ape on the hot savannah, which protects the brain from heat stress (p87-89).<br />The !Khung hunter-gatherers are given detailed dicussion, in which he contends that their numbers and distribution are/were determined by the law of the minumum -\\"cycles of boom and bust\\" in Africa's generally poor soils and climate. Another interesting discussion concerns the discovery of significant hunting implements and culture from 75-90,000 years ago at Katanda in Central Africa, 'putting to shame' the idea that these evolved in non-African areas. The digging stick and projectile point found here, he contends, were precursors to the modern world (p142). Agriculture can be traced to 70,000 years ago in Southen Africa, and organised food production to 15,000 years ago on the Nile. Pottery and domestication came largely from the near East, where conditons seem to be more favouable (p157-160). Problems with the tsetse fly and a variety of other diseases- in domesticates and also humans-is significant in the inhibited development in Africa in general. He argues \\"by leaving the tropical environments of the cradle in which humanity evoled, the migrants also left behind the many parasites and disease organisms\\" p234 (trypanosomes, schistosomiasis, hookworms, plasmodium (malaria)), which mitigates against development in Africa for mankinds exclusive dominance of the environment (p242).<br />Copper and iron smelting were significant developments in food production (for tools) and trade. A chapter on the Island of Meroe is an interesting tale-in which he argues that its success was also its downfall-iron smelting demanded unsustainable hardwood timber supplies, which also occurred at Aksum. Other discussions include: elephants (which restrict farming p256), crops, cattle, the Gold Coast and Portuguese greed, the slave trade, (slavery had existed for ages in Africa), and how bananas thrive in Nigeria's climate. Modern independant states and the decline of imperilism and colonism is also quite detailed for those interested in more modern African history.<br />In summary, \\"unpredictable ecology and the (concommitant) need to maintain voluntary and co-operative barter relationships militated against the emergance of groups powerful enough to rule others, whilst the age-set system ruled against the emergence of dominant lineages within groups\\". Result- little or no state formation in Africa until the modern age, and still there are problems (eg p258-259, p360).<br />Another very interesting chapter concerns diamonds, gold, and the development of the control of labour conditions in 19th century South African mines (ch45)-which was also a social precursor to 20th century apartheid (p503). Those who owned the capital (minerals) made the rules for the labour camps-who then also made the rules for greater society.<br />Overall a good summary, but technically questionable in many areas (as a geologist I can see quite a few errors-eg 'gold is formed exclusively in ancient cratons', or that Russia and Africa have the only diamond-pipe mines in the world-both entirely incorrect). This error rate partially reflects the fact that this is largely a western overview, lacking in sufficient critical editing over time from sources within the continent. Hopefully this will change.gainst development in Africa for mankinds exclusive dominance of the environment (p242). <br />Copper and iron smelting were significant developments in food production (for tools) and trade. A chapter on the Island of Meroe is an interesting tale-in which he argues that its success was also its downfall-iron smelting demanded unsustainable hardwood timber supplies, which also occurred at Aksum. Other discussions include: elephants (which restrict farming p256), crops, cattle, the Gold Coast and Portuguese greed, the slave trade, (slavery had existed for ages in Africa), and how bananas thrive in Nigeria's climate. Modern independant states and the decline of imperilism and colonism is also quite detailed for those interested in more modern African history.<br />In summary, \\"unpredictable ecology and the (concommitant) need to maintain voluntary and co-operative barter relationships militated against the emergance of groups powerful enough to rule others, whilst the age-set system ruled against the emergence of dominant lineages within groups\\". Result- little or no state formation in Africa until the modern age, and still there are problems (eg p258-259, p360). <br />Another very interesting chapter concerns diamonds, gold, and the development of the control of labour conditions in 19th century South African mines (ch45)-which was also a social precursor to 20th century apartheid (p503). Those who owned the capital (minerals) made the rules for the labour camps-who then also made the rules for greater society. <br />Overall a good summary, but technically questionable in many areas (as a geologist I can see quite a few errors-eg 'gold is formed exclusively in ancient cratons', or that Russia and Africa have the only diamond-pipe mines in the world-both entirely incorrect). This error rate partially reflects the fact that this is largely a western overview, lacking in sufficient critical editing over time from sources within the continent. Hopefully this will change.	2003-04-26
US	50867590	R2EH96OT0UIJFI	0786867817	978971417	Mosquito:  A Natural History of Our Most Persistent and Deadly Foe	Books	4	4	5	N	N	"If you are really unlucky, you might die"	\\"The saliva that they leave behind might make you itchy, or if you are really unlucky, you might die\\".<br />If you are like me and seem to attract these buzzing beasts you will enjoy this book, although bear in mind it is rather technical and written mainly for the scientifically minded.<br />Some useful information includes:<br />-carbon dioxide and heat attracts them, (but it doesn't seem to be explained here why they seem to like some people more than others, or whether it is just that some people react to bites more than others),<br />-various species attack different parts of the body (eg some the ankles, some the head),<br />-some don't attack humans at all,<br />-some attack only humans and monkeys,<br />-colours vary-some are black and white striped, (these cause yellow fever), others are brown, others dominantly grey.<br />-the mosquito has had a significant effect on human history through various mosquito borne diseases (eg Dengue, Yellow Fever, Malaria, Encephalitus, and Rift Valley Fever).<br />-various mosquito-borne diseases are exclusive to birds, some cross from birds to man, some from horses to man, some from monkeys to man, etc.<br />Some historical plagues and the diseases transmitted by mosquitoes are described eg Dengue, Yellow Fever, Malaria , Encephalitus, and Rift Valley Fever. Historically, it was initially ridiculed that tiny organisms could carry tiny diseases, but careful observation and scientific method eventually won the day over 'folk psychology'. Mosquitoes, through recognition of their association with yellow fever and malaria, played a major part in the development of germ theory, and by association much of modern medicine. Pasteur's germ theory, partially based on work done on mosquitoes as disease carriers, contributed much to humankind's better general health in the latter 19th century in particular. Good sanitation and community health went hand in hand with ongoing scientific research, including that done on mosquito-borne diseases.<br />Sanitation has been surprisingly effective against mosquito-borne diseases. Limiting stagnant water and widespread use of household netting has been proven to greatly reduce disease rates. The presence of marshes and wetlands increases prevalence, but so does the presence of the longer- lived and more aggressive species (Incidentally, Alaska has amongst the most aggressive mossies of all-which anyone who has been there in the summer will tell you).<br />A useful read, scientifically astute, but perhaps a little dry, along with most other medical-style texts I have read. Worthwhile.<br />Sanitation has been surprisingly effective against mosquito-borne diseases. Limiting stagnant water and widespread use of household netting has been proven to greatly reduce disease rates. The presence of marshes and wetlands increases prevalence, but so does the presence of the longer- lived and more aggressive species (Incidentally, Alaska has amongst the most aggressive mossies of all-which anyone who has been there in the summer will tell you). <br />A useful read, scientifically astute, but perhaps a little dry, along with most other medical-style texts I have read. Worthwhile.	2003-03-17
US	50867590	R1700G03ZNLUZB	0691090866	784732871	Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World Oil Shortage	Books	3	23	29	N	N	More a sloping plateau than a peak.	Estimating unknown resources, particularly in sensitive political climates and in other cultures, is a very precarious exercise.<br />There are several main weaknesses in the contention by oil expert Mr Deffeyes that world oil production will peak around 2005, and decline somewhat quickly thereafter.<br />'Hubbert's Peak' refers to a prediction made by a Mr M.K Hubbert in 1956 that peak US oil production would occur in the early 1970s, which turned out to be correct, supposedly dismissed at the time by both government and industry (his historical analysis may be a little rose-coloured here). He has then applied this experience to estimate the timing of peak world oil production. However, the rest of the world is not the US, and the correlation may not be as simplistic as he suggests.<br />For example, the US is the most drilled oil-producing country in the world, increasing both the chance of discovery and recovery of oil, and also both the maturity and reliability of resource figures. Both the timing and level of exploration is significant here, there were few cultural and environmental restrictions on oil exploration in the US in the first half of the 20 century, and alternative sources were not being investigated. (Some countries simply weren't looking for it). This is one reason I think he has under-estimated ultimately recoverable world oil reserves. It might seem a simple mistake for one quite experienced in the field, but I think such a mistake may be easier to see from one looking at the US experience from the outside.<br />Most importantly, this book candidly admits to ignoring nearly all large increases in official estimates of oil reserves from OPEC countries announced in the 1980s (p157), assuming they are politically motivated and therefore entirely spurious (eg Iraq's official reserves have sat at a constant 100 billion barrels since the the 1980s, although production has remained high). He dismisses the increases mostly on the basis that there has been little or no exploration to justify them. He doesn't seem to note of course that they were probably well under-estimated in the first place. One could also argue, that since there has been so little exploration, there is much more also to be found. Again, I think his mistake here is essentially cultural-he assumes too many parallels with the US experience.<br /><br />He also dismisses USGS figures (ie US government estimates) on ultimate recoverable world oil, far too quickly. USGS ultimate recoverable world oil resources are about 1.5 times higher than his figures (p157). Why the discrepancy? One reason is technologically-improved recovery from known oil fields, which he doesn't seem to even mention. Secondly, I personally think that he allows too much personal prejudice of the USGS to colour his thinking. I have done resource analysis for government, (although not in oil, but in metals) and I have repeatedly been surprised at how quickly and easily some people dismiss government estimates, even when I know I had better access to resource figures than they did. Some people occasionally become selective in pointing out past government errors, whilst at the same failing to acknowledge industry errors.<br />He also has made virtually no concession at all on oil shale, or tar sands, based solely on 20th century experience. He states that oil shale is simply not competitive with the conventional oil price of $US25 barrel (p170), and that seems to be his entire argument. What he fails to even discuss is that with reduced competition from conventional oil, the economics of oil shales changes substantially. Oil shales contain far more oil than all the oil that has so far been produced (one estimate is 242 times conventional oil resources), although not nearly as economically recoverable, true, but his failure to address or properly discuss these resources is telling, especially as regards a potential slow decline after peak oil production.<br />Although I think there area number of errors and also some cultural bias in his argument, at the end of the day world oil production WILL peak. In defence of the book, there are some quite interesting side-stories and anecdotes of the oil industry, making it easy to read, with plenty of geological discussion (eg how oil forms, how oil companies explore, major discoveries etc). However, in the light of the above and other similar weaknesses, I would push the peak of oil production out a bit further than his 2004-2008 (say, 2015 or later, but really this is still a guess), based largely on the unknown size of Middle East resources, which he has too easily dismissed. And, as pointed out by other reviewers, for various reasons (eg political, oil shales, undiscovered resources, social, cultural) the subsequent decline is not necessarily going to be as rapid as the rise in production during the 20th century, as even his crudest figures might suggest (eg his Figure on page 136 on coal production in Philadelphia- which shows a haphazard decline due to social reasons).<br />One final point, I think the book is mistitled- \\"Hubbert's peak, the impending world oil shortage\\". I prefer to think positively-\\"Hubbert's peak, an era of new opportunity for humankind\\". Bicycles, conservative use of both oil and cars, renewable energies- I'm personally looking forward to it. But I doubt, on even my crude analysis of his figures, that a major decline in world oil production will start to happen for a few decades or more yet. Of course there may well be some social instability in the interim, but this may also be reduced in various ways, *especially if the decline after peak world oil production is gradual*, as many people think. (eg Lomborg's very good book 'the Skeptical Environmentalist' provides a summary of the optimistic viewpoint, although I think he tends to over-estimate world oil reserves).<br />At any rate, people will adapt, they always have.are a number of errors and also some cultural bias in his argument, at the end of the day world oil production WILL peak. In defence of the book, there are some quite interesting side-stories and anecdotes of the oil industry, making it easy to read, with plenty of geological discussion (eg how oil forms, how oil companies explore, major discoveries etc). However, in the light of the above and other similar weaknesses, I would push the peak of oil production out a bit further than his 2004-2008 (say, 2015 or later, but really this is still a guess), based largely on the unknown size of Middle East resources, which he has too easily dismissed. And, as pointed out by other reviewers, for various reasons (eg political, oil shales, undiscovered resources, social, cultural) the subsequent decline is not necessarily going to be as rapid as the rise in production during the 20th century, as even his crudest figures might suggest (eg his Figure on page 136 on coal production in Philadelphia- which shows a haphazard decline due to social reasons). <br />One final point, I think the book is mistitled- \\"Hubbert's peak, the impending world oil shortage\\". I prefer to think positively-\\"Hubbert's peak, an era of new opportunity for humankind\\". Bicycles, conservative use of both oil and cars, renewable energies- I'm personally looking forward to it. But I doubt, on even my crude analysis of his figures, that a major decline in world oil production will start to happen for a few decades or more yet. Of course there may well be some social instability in the interim, but this may also be reduced in various ways, *especially if the decline after peak world oil production is gradual*, as many people think. (eg Lomborg's very good book 'the Skeptical Environmentalist' provides a summary of the optimistic viewpoint, although I think he tends to over-estimate world oil reserves).<br />At any rate, people will adapt, they always have.	2003-01-07
US	50867590	R1JQC82AK3HR2G	0753507005	453450763	Movie Mistakes	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Is that a gas cylinder in you chariot?	This is an entertaining compilation of some famous, and some not-so-famous, movie blunders. Mr Sandys has collected thousands of 'movie mistakes' from a variety of sources, mostly from keen internet users, and with some diligent checking, has lead to this good summary of various movie goofs.<br />The book is divided into various categories such as the all-time most popular mistakes (as voted on his website), visible crew, things that move that shouldn't (such as the dead), instantly changing weather, and the like. Some gems include wristwatches in 19th century Africa, visible land in the open ocean, actors knocking into doorframes, gas cylinders in ancient Rome, animals which don't care for directors ambitions, kids who cover their ears when a gunshot is coming, and the like. Its amusing, varied, painstakingly compiled and checked, and generally good fun.<br />Its not meant to be a criticism of various movies, just a lighthearted look at various movie goofs. If you have a DVD you can easily check some of the mistakes listed herein, although in recent years, wise editors have deleted some of the worst mistakes from DVD releases.<br />I have checked about 100 mistakes that interested me, and I have found that most of the time Mr Sandys and his horde of internet compilers are right, although I have found the odd 'mistake' amongst the listed mistakes, so to speak, at least in my opinion. But never mind about splitting hairs, most of the mistakes listed here are the more obvious and less contentious ones. Movie editors aren't perfect, and neither are mistake spotters!.<br />Its lighthearted, entertaining, and recommended for movie buffs, not to be taken too seriously. There is a good website also with much more detail, which gets quite a bit of traffic.	2002-12-21
US	50867590	R1SKW0QYC96STT	0465044255	772988533	What Evolution Is (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	116	124	N	N	Rich, textured and diverse overview.	This is a very good introductory overview of evolutionary theory, suitable for the enthusiastic novice, the educated skeptic, the qualified biologist, or for those who simply wish to know what has been going on in this fascinating field for the last 150 years and more of scientific enquiry.<br /><br />The writer, Ernst Mayr, only recently passed away aged over 100, and had been through a good deal of this scientific development, and is therefore in a unique position to approach the subject. Jared Diamond (author of 'The Third Chimpanzee', 'Guns, Germs and Steel') describes the result: \\"there is no better book on evolution\\". Whilst a little skeptical of this hyperbole, I decided to check it out, and wasn't disappointed.<br /><br />Discussions range from the philosphical (everything in this Earth seems to be in a state of flux\\" p7), to the palaeontological (\\"the older the strata in which a fossil is found...the more different the fossil will be from living relatives\\" p13-although see also the occassional stasis of the genotype on p278-79), to the embryonic (eg 'recapitulation'-an important point), to the modern discovery of 'transposable elements' (gene jumping and copying-p100). Important developments in the theory include the 'branching theory' of Darwin (p19), to the theory of common descent (p21), to discussions of biogeography (species distribution), molecular biology (including the molecular clock), to the formation of new genes by doubling and insertion, leading to diversification (p108-9). The reader will find all the scientific development and current investigations exhaustive, but (hopefully!) rarely exhausting.<br /><br />The causes of speciation have come along way since Darwins 1859 Origin: allopatric,dichopatric, peripactic, sympatric (not found in mammals p180), instantaneous (chromosome doubling), parapatric, and hybridisation. Concepts to ponder over-in case of being caught out at parties.<br /><br />The historical background of 19th century philosophy is introduced (for which modern day philosophy is a little embarrassed) including 'essentialism' (constant essence of species ie \\"a natural kind\\"-with variants either irrelevant or accidental), and 'finalism' (the belief that everything moves toward greater perfection -eg Kant, and others), as compared to Malthus', Wallace's and Darwin's 'population thinking' (the study of variation in populations-a crucial concept).<br /><br />3 theories of evolution are based on essentialism -transmutationism (origin of new types by mutation or saltation), transformationism-gradual change to a new natural 'type' by the influence of the environment, including use and disuse or inheritance of acquired characters (ie Lamarckism), and orthogenesis-the propensity of the living world to move towards perfection (typified by Kant, amongst others). (There are querks possible in these examples-for example some transmutational theories may be non-essentialist- however these 'higher arguments' are sometimes over semantics as much as over concepts). 'Essentialism' was certainly one of the most significant ideological barriers to evolutionary thought, and still is today. (Some present day philosophers still seem obsessed by it-see 'Darwins Dangerous Idea' by Daniel Dennett for a good discussion of philosophical issues and debate).<br /><br />Having little time for 'labels' I have never bothered with such labels as 'Darwinism', 'Neo-Darwinism' etc etc, but after reading this book, I found that my position is mostly that of 'Darwinism' anyway. (Some relief, I think, whatever 'Darwinism' may mean).<br />A good summary of 'Darwinism' is provided (p86):<br />1) non-constancy of species<br />2) descent from common ancestor<br />3) gradualness (but see also below for semantical distinction with punctuationism)<br />4) diversity (by species multiplication)<br />5) natural selection (but see also Baldwin Effect below).<br /><br />These basic tenants have been thrown around and debated for over a century, but it is becoming increasingly obvious that most variants of these ideas amongst evolutionary debates, do not, in fact contradict these basic principles (eg punctuated equilibrium-page 270-\\"punctuated equilibria, which at first sight, seem to support saltationism and discontinuity, are in fact strictly populational phenomenon, and therefore gradual\\"). I'm not sure I agree with this point, although I can see the contention is at least partly semantical.<br /><br />To get some flavour from the book, rather than from me, some veritable gems include:<br /><br />\\"sweeping generalisations are rarely correct in evolutionary biology\\" p271.<br />\\"there is no justification in the widespread assumption that consciousness is a unique human property\\"<br />p282.<br />\\"Selection seems able to to recruit genes in new developmental processes that previously had seemed to have other functions\\" p113.<br />\\"Species are groups of interbredding natural populations that are reproductively isolated from other such groups\\" p166.<br />\\"An organism has to be well adapted as a whole, but it also must be able at all times to cope with its ancestral genome\\" p154.<br />\\"There is alot of structure in the genotype that cannot be discovered and explained by a purely reductionist approach\\" p145.<br />\\"Surely when a population suddenly encounters an extremely adverse situation, the more genetically diverse it is, the greater the chance that it contains genotypes that can better cope with the environmental demands\\" p105.<br />\\"some groups speciate profusely, whereas in others speciation seems to be a rare event\\" p271.<br />\\"most of the variation of genotypes available for natural selection in a population is a result of recombination, not of mutations\\" p280.<br />\\"biological causes and natural selection are dominant in background extinction, whereas physical factors and chance are dominant in mass extinction\\" p203.<br />\\"most new evolutionary lineages arise by budding rather than by splitting\\" p191.<br />\\"rate of speciation is apparently primarily determined by ecological factors\\" p186.<br />\\"Any behaviour that turns out to be of evolutionary significance is likely to be reinforced by the selection of genetic determinants for such behaviour\\" (eg the Baldwin Effect p137-a very important concept).<br /><br />And my favourite-\\"the phenotype of the individual as a whole ..is the actual unit of selection\\" p126.<br /><br />One final point -the final discussion of human evolution, and in particular, evolutionary aspects of human behaviour is understandably brief-that is for the present century to unravel!<br /><br />A wellspring of clean, clear, refreshing information, for the thirsty soul.s amongst evolutionary debates, do not, in fact contradict these basic principles (eg punctuated equilibrium-page 270-\\"punctuated equilibria, which at first sight, seem to support saltationism and discontinuity, are in fact strictly populational phenomenon, and therefore gradual\\"). I'm not sure I agree with this point, although I can see the contention is at least partly semantical.    To get some flavour from the book, rather than from me, some veritable gems include:    \\"sweeping generalisations are rarely correct in evolutionary biology\\" p271.  \\"there is no justification in the widespread assumption that consciousness is a unique human property\\"  p282.  \\"Selection seems able to to recruit genes in new developmental processes that previously had seemed to have other functions\\" p113.  \\"Species are groups of interbredding natural populations that are reproductively isolated from other such groups\\" p166.  \\"An organism has to be well adapted as a whole, but it also must be able at all times to cope with its ancestral genome\\" p154.  \\"There is alot of structure in the genotype that cannot be discovered and explained by a purely reductionist approach\\" p145.  \\"Surely when a population suddenly encounters an extremely adverse situation, the more genetically diverse it is, the greater the chance that it contains genotypes that can better cope with the environmental demands\\" p105.  \\"some groups speciate profusely, whereas in others speciation seems to be a rare event\\" p271.  \\"most of the variation of genotypes available for natural selection in a population is a result of recombination, not of mutations\\" p280.  \\"biological causes and natural selection are dominant in background extinction, whereas physical factors and chance are dominant in mass extinction\\" p203.  \\"most new evolutionary lineages arise by budding rather than by splitting\\" p191.  \\"rate of speciation is apparently primarily determined by ecological factors\\" p186.  \\"Any behaviour that turns out to be of evolutionary significance is likely to be reinforced by the selection of genetic determinants for such behaviour\\" (eg the Baldwin Effect p137-a very important concept).    And my favourite-\\"the phenotype of the individual as a whole ..is the actual unit of selection\\" p126.    One final point -the final discussion of human evolution, and in particular, evolutionary aspects of human behaviour is understandably brief-that is for the present century to unravel!    A wellspring of clean, clear, refreshing information, for the thirsty soul.	2002-09-24
US	50867590	RFNQUODP9U8K5	0966036700	580884083	The "God" Part of the Brain: A Scientific Interpretation of Human Spirituality and God	Books	5	88	100	N	Y	Excellent in parts, but like 'religion', weak in others.	The thesis here is that spiritual and religious experience is essentially something the brain *does*, not something that comes from 'God'/'external being'. The author argues that spirituality and religious impulses have emerged in the evolving brain by default amongst evolving social organisms- in this particular book relatively recently in hominid evolution. Key processes include the growing hominid awareness of death, which, when coupled with an innate anxiety function necessary for survival, ultimately led to spirituality, religious and mystical experience.<br />The author ties together his own spiritual journey with ideas strung together from the likes of Jung, Kant, Plato, Freud, Darwin and E.Wilson, but unfortunately, in my view, leaves out many ideas concerning group conflict-something with which 'groupish' primates are very much affected. One trouble with emphasising 'awareness of death' in the evolution of religious impulses, is just how relevant the 'fear of death' is to say, teenagers-and yet teenagers can have a quite developed 'spiritual impulse'. (eg The average age of 'religious conversion' quoted in the book is 15.2 years, from a study of 15,000). The association of prayer with healing is discussed, (ie essentially placebo, but also stress reduction), 'near death experiences' (neurochemistry evolved to reduce anxiety), 'speaking in tongues' (glossolalia-not explained here, but possibly, in my view, an infant/childhood mechanism overlapping into adulthood-like crying tears), and others such as guilt, morality, etc are discussed in the light of evolutionary theory as applied to human behaviour.<br />One major point I think the author misses though, is that like consciouness itself, 'spirituality' is likely a holisitic and/or emergant brain function, there may in many cases therefore be no specific 'part' as such. Another problem I had is that he vastly under-rates 'thinking' in other biological organisms. For example, in describing pantheistic mysticism \\"one feels that totality of the world is the greatest power and one can see themselves as part of that totality. During this experience a person has a sense that he is part of all that is around him\\" (p111). Why couldn't this be a kind of territorial instinct?-it could therefore be in other animals. In describing monastic mysticism-\\"a person experiences a surrendering of personal identity to a singular or central point of consciousness\\" (p110)-again why can't this be present amongst other social, hirearcheal organisms?  Also, theistic mysticism-\\"seeng or feeling the presence of a personification or a named force which intones a higher power\\" (p110). There is no discussion of the possiblility of any of these experiences having biological origins more ancient than recent hominid evolution. There may be a difference between the ability to be 'spiritual', and to ability to formulate abstract concepts. (How does a bat really 'think'?). His argument against spirituality in other animals is wholly the lack of religious rites (p84), but 'religious rites' do not necessarily constitute spirituality-as anyone disillusioned with conventional religion will happily tell you (He alludes to this on p149). Another example of his gross under-rating of thinking in other animals is on p117, where chimps are given foot-noted recognition that they can see themselves in the mirror only because they have \\"evolutionary proximity to our species\\".<br />The association of schizophrenia and (some) religious belief is also not mentioned, although the association is obvious and has been pointed out by others (eg Jaynes). In his discussion on 'religious conversion', for example, he suggests \\"when the ego is so riddled with anxiety that it ruptures, natural selection has installed our species with a physiologically based \\"religious spare\\"of \\"cognitive transformation\\", which often leads to \\"rapturous contentment\\". The cost of carrying this spare (in the gene pool) is \\"the small price of personal identity\\". However, there may also be more adaptive 'cost' than this-such a descriptive transformation is surprisingly similar to those who suffer schizophrenic breakdown through stress-there may *possibly* be a relationship, which is important. It is also possible that schizophrenia itself has biological precursors in other organisms-dissociating/splitting under stress may be adaptive.<br />These points aside, his journey from religious skepticism to scientific explanation is tinged with individual strength and understanding, (notwithstanding what I would call his human arrogance). I liked his distinction between 'spirituality' and 'religion' (p149)-this is not widely recognised. I also think his points about different kinds of spirituality/mysticism are good- it seems our words for 'religion'/spirituality are woefully inadequate-which of course reflects our lack of understanding of the functioning of our own brains.<br />Sociobiological in outlook-p156 quotes E.Wilson-\\"scientists and humanists should consider together the possiblity that the time has come for ethics to be removed temporarily from the philosophers and biologized.\\" I happen to agree, but with much caution-frameworks which have stood socially for thousands of years need to be challenged/complimented very carefully, with verifiable science and open discussion.<br />The book is a strong attempt to understand human nature. Very good, very controversial, with gaps and weaknesses likely to be strengthened in future years through ongoing brain research. Other books recommended in this general genre of 'sociobiology' are \\"Consilience\\" (broader philosophy of science, religion, sociobiology),  and \\"Why God won't Go away\\" (neurological basis of spirituality).l identity\\". However, there may also be more adaptive 'cost' than this-such a descriptive transformation is surprisingly similar to those who suffer schizophrenic breakdown through stress-there may *possibly* be a relationship, which is important. It is also possible that schizophrenia itself has biological precursors in other organisms-dissociating/splitting under stress may be adaptive.<br />These points aside, his journey from religious skepticism to scientific explanation is tinged with individual strength and understanding, (notwithstanding what I would call his human arrogance). I liked his distinction between 'spirituality' and 'religion' (p149)-this is not widely recognised. I also think his points about different kinds of spirituality/mysticism are good- it seems our words for 'religion'/spirituality are woefully inadequate-which of course reflects our lack of understanding of the functioning of our own brains. <br />Sociobiological in outlook-p156 quotes E.Wilson-\\"scientists and humanists should consider together the possiblity that the time has come for ethics to be removed temporarily from the philosophers and biologized.\\" I happen to agree, but with much caution-frameworks which have stood socially for thousands of years need to be challenged/complimented very carefully, with verifiable science and open discussion. <br />The book is a strong attempt to understand human nature. Very good, very controversial, with gaps and weaknesses likely to be strengthened in future years through ongoing brain research. Other books recommended in this general genre of 'sociobiology' are \\"Consilience\\" (broader philosophy of science, religion, sociobiology),  and \\"Why God won't Go away\\" (neurological basis of spirituality).	2002-06-15
US	50867590	R3UDJDH5LE0U79	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	5	34	36	N	N	The Emperor of Antarctica.	This book details the career of the distinguished mathematician Dr John Nash, and the title comes from a reply of Dr Nash's to a pretigious job offer from the University of Chicago in 1959 (page 244) when, at the height of his illustrious career, he stated that he had to decline the offer because he was scheduled to become \\"the Emperor of Antarctica\\". Of course one might think he was kidding, but there is no doubt that at the time he believed that he was to be involved with a coming world government, and was to be one of its leaders-\\"Antarctica\\" may or may not have been his idea of a joke- but the idea certainly wasn't.<br />Mr Nash was certainly one of the most significant mathematicians of the second half of the 20th century (page 12). This assertion carries some weight, but Mr Nash prior to his descent into paranoid schizophrenia, had in his PHd thesis already solved a major problem with Von Neumann's and Mortgenstern's 1200 page volume \\"The Theory of Games and Econmic Behaviour\\" (p97) (for which he eventually won the Nobel Prize for economics in 1994), and solved the embedding problem for manifolds (p 156-163)-which caused quite a stir in academic circles. His PHd thesis was to become one of the major breakthroughs in economic theory in the second half of the 20th century-on non co-operative game theory. It has also been applied successfully to evolutionary biology, amongst other disciplines.<br />For those who like important names, there are few here-Einstein who kindly said to Nash's ideas about gravitational fields at 19 \\"you need to do some physics young man\\", and another- John Von Neumann- regarded as the most multifaceted mathematician of the 20th century (p79), who thought his PHd thesis was \\"trivial\\", \\"just a fixed point theorem\\". There are a host of other names for those who know mathematical academia better than I.<br />One of the best things about this book is that it attempts to journey through some of the greatest mysteries of the human mind-as Slyvia Nasar puts it, genius, madness and reawakening (p22). It takes great care to document as much as possible, the facts, and the testimonies of those who directly partook/partake in his life story (some of course who still do). (In this it differs from the general Hollywood style-but to be fair-the film was mostly accurate, and captured the major and important themes). It is one of those cases, where, with perserverance, the book is ultimately more rewarding than the film, and certainly more accurate. One must thank Sylvia Nassar for completing such an important and difficult work. She does so admirably.<br />Discussions involve his relatively indistinguished childhood (a B- in the 4th grade in arithmetic), his early experimental and scientific tendencies, the politics within 'pure mathematics', the effects of stress, his marital relations, his homosexual tendencies, his extreme arrogance, childish manner, lack of social skills, occasional anti-semitism (page 146), fear of failure, brilliant mind, the courageous support of his partner-Alicia Nash, and the support of his talented colleagues who did all they could to ameloriate his growing condition-as in the word of one \\"he was worth doing the very best for\\" (p304). One particularly moving piece concerns the determination of Alicia at the onset of his terrible illness to save Nash's career and his genius-who by this time was forging into mathematical history- whilst at the same time going completely psychotic. She knew at this point his career and mind \\"could still be saved\\", and she risked her own sanity and life, and that of her baby, to try and save it. As Sylvia puts it, \\"another young woman might have thrown up her hands and gone home to her parents\\" (p262). And it was fear for her own safety, along with the warning that his condition would deteriorate without treatment, which led her to finally seek commitment, as least for observation (p251).<br />Some points of diversion with the film; there seems to be little if any visual delusions involved in his case, there were some minor auditory, but the extent of his delusional *beliefs* were not overstated. Paranoia was particularly marked. Delusions included his wife withholding things from him, \\"why don't you tell me\\", invasions of aliens, a one world government in which he was to be the leader, the Left Foot of God, a predeliction for patterns, letters (b) and dates (May 29) with no signficance, and horribly incoherant mathematics. Not good or bad mathemetical lectures, but horrible (p246). A description of his condition and that of schizophrenia in general includes pp324-330.<br />Very detailed, and written in a style where truth is paramount, not fiction, it is a very difficult, deeply disturbing but ultimately very rewarding book.ittle if any visual delusions involved in his case, there were some minor auditory, but the extent of his delusional *beliefs* were not overstated. Paranoia was particularly marked. Delusions included his wife withholding things from him, \\"why don't you tell me\\", invasions of aliens, a one world government in which he was to be the leader, the Left Foot of God, a predeliction for patterns, letters (b) and dates (May 29) with no signficance, and horribly incoherant mathematics. Not good or bad mathemetical lectures, but horrible (p246). A description of his condition and that of schizophrenia in general includes pp324-330.<br />Very detailed, and written in a style where truth is paramount, not fiction, it is a very difficult, deeply disturbing but ultimately very rewarding book.	2002-05-21
US	50867590	R3PR1GTRPZW1LD	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	4	46	58	N	N	Is the glass half empty of half full?	Firstly, this book is very controversial. *Mr Lomborg's basic assertion, is that the state of the world, as a whole, and human life in general, is getting better, not worse, and that the alarmist claims of some environmentalists are exaggerated*.<br />Mr Lomborg is an expert in statistics, with a background in political science. A very readable and up to date overview of the human and environmental state of the world is presented, and includes:<br />a) Human welfare-life expectancy, infant mortality, infectious disease rates, food availability, dietary habits.<br />b) future human prosperity based on measurable trends-forest cover, energy resources, non-energy resources, water availability and quality.<br />c) pollution issues-air, acid rain, indoor pollution, allergies and asthma, water pollution (eg Exxon Valdez and other oil spills), waste issues.<br />d) Future issues-chemical, pesticides, cancer rates and causes, GM foods, biodiversity, extinction, global warming-causes and consequences.<br />The first 2 chapters concern discussion of the more common doomsday reports, the underlying assumptions upon which some of these are based, and the problems of a sensationalist-driven media. It is obvious from these initial discussions, and what is just common sense, that selective reporting and human politics pervades environmentalism as much as any other human activity. What Mr Lomborg tries to show, is that we need to channel peoples concerns and energies, as much as possible, into real priorities concerning the environment, and not rely on the doomsday theorists to frighten us by selective use of statistics, and thus clouding issues of prioritisation.<br />He presents longer term trends to show how human welfare is in some ways getting much better (infant mortality, illness decline, technological advance, increased wealth, life expectancy), however some or much of this is undoubtedly due to 'environmental' achievements (such as lower pollution, regulation of food and drugs). Many environmentalists of course contend that human prosperity is occurring at the great expense of the environment in general, however Mr Lomborg's general assertion is that this effect itself is declining, not increasing, even as humans increase-(eg due to better technology, more efficient use of resources, recycling, research, alternative materials, environmental priorities, etc).<br />One major concern in the book is that there seems to be little express acknowledgement that the committment, energy, and scientific concern that people genuinely concerned about the environment, misguided in some instances or not, have had on the very statistics which he presents. It is implied, but not expressly discussed.<br />His assertion that biodiversity decline is real but grossly exaggerted is one of his more questionable assertions. He challenges the specialist biologists on this matter directly, and I think here, as in a few other cases, he is mistaken, claiming that extinction rates over the next 50 years are likely to be 'only' about 0.7%. It even seems that he uses weaknesses in his detractors arguments to support some of his assertions, eg that because we can't measure species decline in many small species for example, this means it is exaggerated. What also is not discussed, is whether some of the effects of this decline are overstated. Ecosystems are interconnected and fragile, but if a more benign species increases at the expense of a less benign species, is this desirable? Are selective pressures partially manageable?<br />Whilst he has made some very good points, especially with regards to human welfare (the past was never a 'golden age'), he does appear to have overstated his case with regards to more direct environmental issues (eg extinction, biodiversity, forest cover). It is important to stress that Mr Lomborg does some very good work in exposing some blatant and serious mistakes about environmental data (eg the claim that 40% of deaths are caused bypollution, that we woud run out of oil by 1992). In covering a range of difficult scientific specialities, no doubt he has made some factual errors. (I can see one with regard to my field of geology-there is no mention of the problem of rate of extraction of oil shale/tar sands). But the point is not trivial mistakes, but broad themes, are things getting worse or better?-well it really depends on what you are referring to.<br />Some people have pointed out that the material in this book will be used by those in power to further their own exploitative ends and/or maintain the status quo. Of course, unfortunately, this is true. But what this book is trying to explain, is that *these sorts of things also go on amongst those who have an active concern for the world*. It simply isn't always as obvious.<br />Mr Lomborg, I hope, is not about undermining the passion of those who are actively concerned about this beautiful planet. What he is about, is targetting and setting this good energy where it needs to be, in informed decision making. People like to see things in relative terms-the glass is \\"half full\\" or \\"half empty\\", but really without proper use of statistics and a good understanding of that great leveller-time-we often can't see what is 'relatively' going on. That is what this book is about-what we need to chose to do, what to prioritise, what to use and what to save-natures cup, not constraining human delusions.pollution, that we woud run out of oil by 1992). In covering a range of difficult scientific specialities, no doubt he has made some factual errors. (I can see one with regard to my field of geology-there is no mention of the problem of rate of extraction of oil shale/tar sands). But the point is not trivial mistakes, but broad themes, are things getting worse or better?-well it really depends on what you are referring to. <br />Some people have pointed out that the material in this book will be used by those in power to further their own exploitative ends and/or maintain the status quo. Of course, unfortunately, this is true. But what this book is trying to explain, is that *these sorts of things also go on amongst those who have an active concern for the world*. It simply isn't always as obvious.<br />Mr Lomborg, I hope, is not about undermining the passion of those who are actively concerned about this beautiful planet. What he is about, is targetting and setting this good energy where it needs to be, in informed decision making. People like to see things in relative terms-the glass is \\"half full\\" or \\"half empty\\", but really without proper use of statistics and a good understanding of that great leveller-time-we often can't see what is 'relatively' going on. That is what this book is about-what we need to chose to do, what to prioritise, what to use and what to save-natures cup, not constraining human delusions.	2002-05-18
US	50867590	R3S07UOVENCFHY	0070230749	833192820	Animals; a picture book of facts and figures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Animal Facts.	This was one of my most favourite childhood books. I still have a copy that is about 30 years old, safely stowed in my library.<br />The book lists attributes of various land and marine creatures ranging from the smallest, to the biggest; from the slowest to the fastest; from the lowest dwellers in the sea, to the highest living in the mountains; from the deepest swimmers, to the fastest runners, the biggest jumpers, the highest fliers, and the widest roamers.<br />The book includes some of the smallest land animals (eg flea- 1/4 inch), to some of the biggest (eg Kodiak bear- 10 feet), with sea creatures including giant squid (to 20 feet), and blue whales (to 100 feet). The Yak climbs to above 20,000 feet, the bar- headed goose flies up to 28,000 feet, the sperm whale dives to 1500 feet, the gulper lives at 38,000 feet, the swift flies to 200 mph, the cheetah runs up to 70 mph, the sailfish swims up to 68 mph, the lemur leaps to 35 feet wide, the dolphin to 18 feet high, and so on.<br />A great book for young kids to learn facts about animals in the world, illustrated with colour pictures for each.	2002-04-09
US	50867590	R2BH25DWYKJMG8	0563367075	446029428	Nomads of the Wind: A Natural History of Polynesia	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Just a taste of paradise	When I read this book I was looking for a detailed account of the natural history of the south pacific-the people, cultures, places, maps, archaeology, geology, biogeography, and so on. This book is very good, but not by any means exhaustive-its 11 chapters provide a useful overview of natural history, initial polynesian and then European discovery, and the various cultures of the Tahitian islands (chapters 1-2), the Fijian group (3), the Tongan group (4), a chapter on polynesian seafearing (5), the story of Fletcher Christian and the Bounty Mutineers (6), the Cook Islands (6), the Marquesas Islands (6-7), Easter Island (8), European Impact (9), Hawaii (9), New Zealand (10), and the future (11).<br />A strong point is the beautiful colour photographs and cultural depictions, however a notably weak point is the poorness of the maps. Often it is difficult to tell which islands belong to which particular \\"group\\" from the text, and the maps don't help in this respect-they are very simplisitic and look hand-drawn. These maps are in stark contrast to the beauty and extravagance of the colour photos of various wildlife, vistas and aerial photographs.<br />One of the best chapters is that on Easter Island with its stone statues, general cultural and natural history and subsequent decline. It is a little brief, but I found the archaeological accounts of it the islands cultural downfall particularly interesting. Basically, the ruling religious class (hanau eepe) are overthrown by a warrior class (matatoa) after the resource base of the island, and the cultural structure which depended on it, collapsed. By the time Europeans arrived in the 17th and 18th centuries, the island was already in warfare and decline.<br />Typical useful snippets include the taro root being found to contain natural flouride complexes by western science, which was discovered after someone researched why the polynesians seemed to have such good teeth. After the connection was made, flouide was routinely introduced into toothpaste/water in western societies. The New Zealand Maoris had no pigs or chickens, unlike other polynesians, probably because they were substituted by the now extinct Moa as a food source, after they first arrived in New Zealand. The presence of the sweet potatoe and other South American oddities suggests some natural or cultural influx from South America-either with seafarers from the east, by natural currents and winds (eg some lizards on Fiji, and South American trees on Easter Island), or by the polynesians themselves who may have reached South America, but never settled there. Another bit of trivia is on page 84-it is an aerial colour shot of the island where Tom Hanks was marooned in the movie \\"Castaway\\".<br />Overall quite a useful overview of the natural history of Polynesia, and beautifully illustrated, but not presented in any exhaustive detail.ely introduced into toothpaste/water in western societies. The New Zealand Maoris had no pigs or chickens, unlike other polynesians, probably because they were substituted by the now extinct Moa as a food source, after they first arrived in New Zealand. The presence of the sweet potatoe and other South American oddities suggests some natural or cultural influx from South America-either with seafarers from the east, by natural currents and winds (eg some lizards on Fiji, and South American trees on Easter Island), or by the polynesians themselves who may have reached South America, but never settled there. Another bit of trivia is on page 84-it is an aerial colour shot of the island where Tom Hanks was marooned in the movie \\"Castaway\\".<br />Overall quite a useful overview of the natural history of Polynesia, and beautifully illustrated, but not presented in any exhaustive detail.	2002-04-04
US	50867590	R24H1UGBYKX0OV	0789306565	302278914	The Origins of Fruit and Vegetables	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Praise the Lord and pass the Sauce!	This book is an excellent overview of the natural history of fruit and vegetables-where they originated, how they have changed and developed over time, and how they have influenced history. The first part details various aspects of our most common fruits (as least 29 main types are discussed), the second part that of vegetables (at least 25).<br />It is interesting to trace the place of origin of our most cherished delicicies. Tomatoes (western South America), potatoes (western South America), strawberries (the modern is a hybrid from a Chilean variety and a Virginian variety), banana (SE Asia), apple (South East Asia and Eurasia), orange (SE Asia), cracked black peppercorns (Southern India), carrots (Eurasia-probably Afghanistan), maize/corn (America-possibly the Andes originally), fermented grapes (Eurasia-possibly even fermented by homo erectus), watermelon (Africa), cucumber (India), pumpkin (Americas), leek (Central Asia), onion (Central Asia), avocardo (modern types come from Central Amercia), lemons (Eastern Himalaya), kiwifruit (Southern China) and many others. Beetroot grows wild near the sea in the Mediterranean. A tomato native to the Galapagos Islands has evolved resistance to seawater, but the seeds must be digested and 'voided' by tortoises-giant ones-before they will germinate. Charles Darwin would have been impressed.<br />Readers might be interested to know that the Romans and Greeks, for example, would have never even heard of such delights as tomatoes, potatoes, and corn, as these were all native to the Americas. Oranges, which are a cross between a pumello and a mandarin, didn't reach Europe until the Dark Ages, and neither did our modern apple.<br />With increase in trade and exploration over time many subspecies were crossed and produced vigorous hybrids, which in conjunction wih selective breeding and vagaries of taste over time, has produced many of the modern forms we see today. It is interesting to note here that not all modern forms are necassarily the best -the Jonathan apple for example, became very popular simply because it is bright red and looks good in the supermarket-but it is not the best eating apple.<br />Another interesting aspect is the carrying of many original types from the east by Islamic ventures, and to the east by Christians and various explorers. Cross-fertilisation thus eventuated by accident. Subsequently, many species were further cross-fertilised with North and South American types after the expansion into the Americas by Europeans after 1492.<br />Not all fruit and veges stand the test of time. The ancestor of the bean appears to have gone extinct, and some apple varieties seem to be going that way, crowded out by the Golden Delicious, and the ever-red Jonathan. Others took a long time to get going-such as the tomatoe. For long its association with the poisonous Mandrake stifled its development in the European Middle Ages. Today it is one of the most versatile and most widespread fruits grown. (It is actually a fruit or berry, rather than a vegetable, as is commonly believed).<br />This book is more than just an excursion into delectable dishes. The nature and origin of fruit and vegetables has profoundly affected culture and history. The potato famine of Europe and Ireland in the 1840s is described, (with at least 1.5 milion deaths in Ireland alone, out of a population of 8 millon). The development of agriculture in humans thousands of years ago was facilitated by mutant strains of such things as almonds, wheat, peas, and bananas (one of the oldest harvested fruit).<br />Magnificent, and pass me the pepper! Don't underestimate the power of food on primates. Nations have risen and fallen on the vagaries of corn, potatoes, fermented grapes, grain and the like, and their resistance to disease, peoples taste and historical oddities.<br />There are some beautiful paintings, inscriptions, and archealogical illustrations throughout, inspired by some of history's greatest artists and cultures.<br />Highly recommended for the lover of food and dining.ists and cultures. <br />Highly recommended for the lover of food and dining.	2002-03-22
US	50867590	RSGQKIV0V5MJW	0750923156	976126127	Disease &amp; History, 2nd Edition	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A subtle account of disease and history	This book is a good overview of disease and history, with a particular emphasis on psychosomatic disease. In this respect it is written in a slightly different style to others in the genre which I have read, such as \\"Plagues and Peoples\\", \\"Man and Microbes\\", and \\"Disease\\" (Ridley), which focus more on physical aspects of disease. It also presents perhaps more of the alternative views and arguments than some of the others, such as the debate around the origin of syphilis, the possibility that sweating sickness evolved into influenza, political ideologies and racism around the concept of disease, and the importance of geography and psychosomatic disease has on history in general, is more emphasised. Perhaps the crux of the books argument is summarised on page 191 \\"we may state that all disease is to a greater or lesser degree psychosomatic\\".<br />Examples of disease and the psychological effect on individuals and history is detailed in stories such as: the suspicion that Ivan the Terrible suffered from cerebral syphilis (page 52), and also Henry the V111, Queen Victoria and haemiphilia-and the suggested links to the downfall of the Russian Monarchy, the influence of the Black Death on feudalism, and the rise of Christianity in the light of successive \\"incurable disease during the years which followed the life of Christ\\" (page 15). The history of the Napoleanic wars is argued to have been influenced as much by \\"General Typhus\\" as by \\"General Napoleon\\", and Napoleon is observed to suffer from several possible ailments-not described in former literature. Cholera and its influence on sanitary reform in the 1800s is discussed, malaria and yellow fever and the development of germ theory, the death of the poet Keats by TB, Middle age witch- hunts, dancing manias, Hitlers paranoia about diseased and \\"pure stock\\"-these are all discussed in the light of physical and psychosomatic disease, and the issues and political ideaologies that sometimes surrounds disease. Aids is ony briefly discussed towards the end.<br />What I liked most about this book is the growing recognition of psychosomatic effects on people and history, and some alternative arguments to history and disease in this context. It is also interesting to note how the idea of \\"disease\\" itself has infleunced history, to the wrath of God to the inferiority by geography or immune system familiarity.  One thing is certain about disease, whether disorder of the body, or disorder of the mind, physical or psychological or both -it has played a larger role in history than has formerly been given credit.iefly discussed towards the end. <br />What I liked most about this book is the growing recognition of psychosomatic effects on people and history, and some alternative arguments to history and disease in this context. It is also interesting to note how the idea of \\"disease\\" itself has infleunced history, to the wrath of God to the inferiority by geography or immune system familiarity.  One thing is certain about disease, whether disorder of the body, or disorder of the mind, physical or psychological or both -it has played a larger role in history than has formerly been given credit.	2002-03-18
US	50867590	R2ZKT0XW0W6XPB	0684822709	522258161	Man and Microbes: Disease and Plagues in History and Modern Times	Books	4	33	36	N	Y	"In the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him"	So the author of revelation saw the lethal side of cities (quoted on page 48), or as Mr Arno Karlen better describes-\\"as farmers and villagers began crowding into cities, this immunologically virgin mass offered a feast to germs lurking in domesticated animals, wastes, filth, and scavengers\\" (page 48).<br />This book provides a reasonable overview of germs and social history. Mr Karlen traces the development of agriculture and cities to the development of 'crowd diseases', jumping ship from previous group species such as horses, pigs, ducks, rats, etc, or mutating from previously benign forms, or appearing and diappearing from nowhere, leaving little trace. As far as other species influence goes-that old friend the dog is suggested to have contributed no less than 65 diseases to homo sapien (page 39), with 45 from cattle, and 35 fom horses.<br />The reader will find discussion on the likely origins and developments of eg measles (possibly from distemper in dogs, although Diamond in the book \\"Guns Germs and Steel\\" suggests cattle), smallpox (dogs or cattle), influenza (pigs and ducks), common cold (horses?), scarlet fever, typhus, bubonic plague (fleas), syphilis, gonorrhea, cholera (lives in water), AIDS (probably chimps), malaria (mosquito), tuberculosis, leprosy, legionaires disease, and a host of others. Various historical calamities are described such as:<br />- Athens which lost 1 in 3 people in 430 BC, (unknown- possibly measles, typhoid, scarlet fever, smallpox), and which ended the so-called 'golden age' of Greece.<br />-AD 164-180+ Roman empire-4-7 million deaths, (probably smallpox),<br />-540 AD+ bubonic plague-halving Europes population over the next 150 years,<br />-200 BC to 200 AD smallpox and measles ravaged China and Japan (many other times also),<br />-several waves-657-1551 AD-\\"sweating sickness\\" (appears to have gone extinct),<br />-AD 125- 1 million deaths in north Africa alone (?measles)<br />-AD 79 Rome-Anthrax, or possibly malaria<br />-later 20 century-present-AIDS, -millions and climbing,<br />-1348-1352 AD bubonic plague, with several waves- 25 million plus in Europe, more in the east,<br />-1800s- several waves-cholera and yellow fever in Europe,<br />-1492-1800s+-Americas estimated 90 million deaths of indigenous populations,<br />-1918, influenza-around 40 million.<br />-many others.<br />Older calamities are often less well documented in eg Africa, India, China, etc. 20th century examples are many, often small, and often a 'new' disease-eg page 6 lists a partial list of around 20 'new' diseases in latter 20 century outbreaks, including ebola and legionaires.<br />Readers will be interested to read of the social changes which were influenced by many of these outbreaks, such as the tragic conquest of the Europeans into the Americas, and the decline of the Roman Empire-partly due to successive ravages of various plagues. As the empire expanded it brought back numerous germs, something which was forgotten by the time partly immune explorers brought them again to other lands in the second millenium AD.<br />Modern examples and resurgences are also discussed such as Lyme disease, mad cow disease, AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, legionaires, etc. Most diseases tend to decline over time as a population becomes immune, (eg Syphilis, since about 1492) but a few seem to go the other way-eg polio and tuberculosis-ie they increase in severity. Modern examples which make medical specialists nervous in the modern age are also described, such as hantaviruses, ebola, TB, hepatitus, AIDS -especially of mutation, and malaria, but there are a host of others.<br />The thing I find fascinating, and sad about this book, is the complexity of the immune system, and how these diseases originate and proliferate. Many have jumped from other species, some have always been with us- but ocassionally mutate into a virulent form. Some have always been around in water or elsewhere, and mutute/evolve occassionally -like Legionaires disease. It is an ever-present war, and one which has greatly influenced history.<br />The book provides a stark analysis of human history and the ruthlessness of life with germs, but despite the general negativity of this book, one must also appreciate how far we have come, and in how many ways we succeed against these diseases, and continue to succeed. New diseases are inevitable, but Ridley suggests in the book \\"Disease\\" that the future may well be in DNA vaccines. One can only hope.<br />One disapppointment is the lack of deeper medical explanation on eg how diseases function, and why some are more effective than others, and various aspects of the immune system etc. There is a distinct lack of deeper medical analysis, for those like myself who want a deeper medical investigation.<br />Recommended for those who are interested in how sickness has affected history, but not so much *why* we get sick, in any great detail.an ever-present war, and one which has greatly influenced history. <br />The book provides a stark analysis of human history and the ruthlessness of life with germs, but despite the general negativity of this book, one must also appreciate how far we have come, and in how many ways we succeed against these diseases, and continue to succeed. New diseases are inevitable, but Ridley suggests in the book \\"Disease\\" that the future may well be in DNA vaccines. One can only hope. <br />One disapppointment is the lack of deeper medical explanation on eg how diseases function, and why some are more effective than others, and various aspects of the immune system etc. There is a distinct lack of deeper medical analysis, for those like myself who want a deeper medical investigation.<br />Recommended for those who are interested in how sickness has affected history, but not so much *why* we get sick, in any great detail.	2002-02-25
US	50867590	R20UPHKXTAH7Z2	0231118627	659155994	Rivers in Time: The Search for Clues to Earth's Mass Extinctions	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Mass extinction update-an elusive gang of killers.	I really like Peter Ward's books. He presently serves as my 'geological advisor', as I also am a geologist. He is not as dogmatic as some within the field of mass extinction, since he recognises it is now becoming increasingly obvious that in most mass extinctions, these ancient 'killers' did not act alone. Early arguments in the debate of mass extinction, especially the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) event, were in the form of either/or, (eg volcanism versus asteroid/comet impact), rather than one big event following and/or combining with another.<br />The old argument &quot;one or the other&quot; is now often questioned on the basis of statistics itself. You could just as well turn this logic around-if it so happened, that once in a proverbial blue moon in geological time (which is really long) TWO OR MORE events occurred at roughly the same time-wouldn't this produce a really big mass extinction??. Maybe to exterminate a large number of species against the backdrop of reasonable resistance of life to widespread extinction, more than one major event has to occur. This sort of scenario is supported, for example, by the many impact craters which have been dated and which have produce no mass extinctions. This is the general view espoused by this book.<br />The arguments over statistics is not irrelevant here. Researchers have indeed found that what may appear to be gradual decline in the geological record can be sudden, and vice versa, simply due to such an overlooked thing, for example, as 'sampling' error. For big animals such as dinosaurs it is particularly problematic, because sampling bias occurs in level of exposure, type of rock and degree of preservation for what is already a rarely preserved animal. The geological record is baised in what it tends to preserve, and what it tends to not show. Stratigraphical studies have shown for some time, for example, that vast amounts of time can transpire in a sedimentary sequence, with nothing to show for it, basins are often very dynamic and problematic in this respect. &quot;Thickness&quot; does not often equate wih equivalent time, even in 'quiet' environments. The upshot of all this, and detailed dates on the Decaan Traps for example, have shown clearly, that increased volcanism, climate changes, and at least some general species decline was occurring *before* the clay layer which was produced by impact at the 'K/T boundary'. Maybe we should expect this for 'mass extinction', to produce a real killer blow (ie mass extinction) maybe life has to be wounded first.<br />Peter Ward in this book focusses on four mass extinctions- the P/T, the end Triassic, the K/T, and the present. There is good evidence for similarities -in the end Permian it is suggested to be due to life adapted to ice ages, then increased volcanism and increased CO2 with hothouse, and possible sea level changes. At the K/T it was ocean changes (?), then volcanism and increased CO2, and then impact. At the present a suprisingly similar situation appears to be occurring-now it's climate change (drying of the Mediterranean, prevalence of ice ages), evolution of man (from these two possibly), and now carbon dioxide emission.<br />The end Triassic, along with the end Permian, are the least understood extinction events. Peter Ward takes us to the red sandstones of the Karoo (P/T), the Queen Charlotte Islands off the coast of Canada (end Triassic), and Soviet Georgia in the former USSR (K/T), to unravel some of these mysteries. The last portion of the book looks at the present extinction event-with man as the major influence. An extended discussion of the Hawaiian islands is given.<br />Peter Ward mentions that the start of the Triassic worldwide often contains redbeds, even near the poles-suggesting hothouse conditions. From my experience in New South Wales, Australia, this is true. The start of the Triassic in NSW is interesting in that it seems also utterly barren of coal-despite alot of coal through the Permian. Something happened-the organisms were all dead, apparently. There are alot of redbeds at the boundary too-hothouse conditions-even though New South Wales was near the poles at the time. It is interesting to see these sort of patterns worldwide, something strange indeed seems to have been going on at the start of the Triassic/end Permian.<br />One disappointment, also pointed out by others, is the lack of good diagrams, photos and the like. There are a few, but there could certainly be more. Mr Ward-rock sequences are visually interesting, as are fossils and diagrams-put a few more in please! And what about the Ordovician extinction, and others?<br />A good read, and a good guide to updates on extinction scenarios.hing happened-the organisms were all dead, apparently. There are alot of redbeds at the boundary too-hothouse conditions-even though New South Wales was near the poles at the time. It is interesting to see these sort of patterns worldwide, something strange indeed seems to have been going on at the start of the Triassic/end Permian. <br />One disappointment, also pointed out by others, is the lack of good diagrams, photos and the like. There are a few, but there could certainly be more. Mr Ward-rock sequences are visually interesting, as are fossils and diagrams-put a few more in please! And what about the Ordovician extinction, and others?<br />A good read, and a good guide to updates on extinction scenarios.	2002-01-26
US	50867590	RIUEGQP4QV2C0	0395939461	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It's good, but really one for the diehard Tolkien fans only.	Three things one should say about this book:<br />1) It is really only for the die-hard Tolkien fans. It's long, complicated, intricate, and written more like a historical/mythical geneology, than a novel. There are many people who manage to get through The Lord of the Rings, but not this book, which is written in a very different style.<br />2), However, if your are one of those diehards-like myself-you'll love it.<br />3) The illustrated edition by Tolkien artist Ted Nasmith, is probably the best edition to get.<br />It is divided into 4 sections.<br />1) The Creation of Arda-(ie the world)-being the time before the \\"First Age\\";<br />2) The \\"Quenta Silmarillion\\"- which is essesntially the \\"First Age\\" of \\"Middle Earth\\";<br />3) The \\"Second Age\\" including the \\"Alkallabeth\\"-whhich is the Downfall Of Numenor and<br />4) \\"Of the Rings of Power and The Third Age\\" (ie a background to the Lord of the Rings).<br />It is really a prequel to the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings, upon which much of their material is based. Viewers of the recent \\"Lord of the Rings\\" movies will learn more about Balrogs, for example and their origins, wizards, orcs, the seeing stones, and Sauron's original master-Melkor of the Valar-the Ainu, or \\"Gods\\" to men. Elrond, and his ancestors, where Gandalf comes from, the origin of dwarves, elves, men and others, are all there.<br />4 of the main stories include:<br />1) the ancient elvish race of the Noldor, attempting to get back their Silmarils-beautiful light giving gems-from Melkor who stole them,<br />2)the tale of Beren and Luthien who fall in love and get back one of these Silmarils, and<br />3) the tale of Turin Turumbar who destroys the first and mightiest dragon, but is also caught in the corruption and doom of the Noldor, who become accursed in their greed to retain the Silmarils.<br />4) Another major story is the Alkallabeth which describes the origin of Aragorn's race in Middle Earth, coming from an Island Kingdom -Numenor-destroyed by the Valar (Gods) because of their ultimate corruption by Sauron.<br />J.R.R.Tolkien wrote these books well before he wrote the Lord of the Rings, mostly for his own benefit, since he saw little hope for their gaining popularity in general. After the \\"Lord of the Rings\\" was a success, The Silmarillion was published, (after his death), to which the Lord of the Rings looks back in time.<br />It is highly mythic, with grandeur and romantic elegance, for those interested in the deeper and ancient things of Middle Earth. In many ways it is deeper and more mythic than even the Lord of the Rings, but it is not an easy book to read. It certainly has a romantic- poetic-even religious flavour to it, which gives solace to the spirit. Read it if you're keen on all things Tolkien, otherwise many try, but get lost half way through.<br />One point to note is that Mr Tolkien, being a classical linguistic scholar, borrowed much of his material from the ancient myths of ancient Europe-the Norse, the Celts, the Vikings, even the Greeks in part etc, so an alternative to these narratives of Tolkien is to read some of the ancient myths of these cultures themself, upon which many of his ideas are based. Some of these aren't too bad to reasearch-think of some of the ancient Greek myths made into some Hollywood movies- eg Jason and the Argonauts, the Golden Fleece, or the Rings Saga of the Vikings and Germanic tribes- which Wagner elucidated. What many of these ancient myths have in common is an understanding of deeper human nature, upon which much of our modern society(s) stems. \\"The Silmarillion\\" is no different.<br />Good luck.(Gods) because of their ultimate corruption by Sauron. <br />J.R.R.Tolkien wrote these books well before he wrote the Lord of the Rings, mostly for his own benefit, since he saw little hope for their gaining popularity in general. After the \\"Lord of the Rings\\" was a success, The Silmarillion was published, (after his death), to which the Lord of the Rings looks back in time.<br />It is highly mythic, with grandeur and romantic elegance, for those interested in the deeper and ancient things of Middle Earth. In many ways it is deeper and more mythic than even the Lord of the Rings, but it is not an easy book to read. It certainly has a romantic- poetic-even religious flavour to it, which gives solace to the spirit. Read it if you're keen on all things Tolkien, otherwise many try, but get lost half way through. <br />One point to note is that Mr Tolkien, being a classical linguistic scholar, borrowed much of his material from the ancient myths of ancient Europe-the Norse, the Celts, the Vikings, even the Greeks in part etc, so an alternative to these narratives of Tolkien is to read some of the ancient myths of these cultures themself, upon which many of his ideas are based. Some of these aren't too bad to reasearch-think of some of the ancient Greek myths made into some Hollywood movies- eg Jason and the Argonauts, the Golden Fleece, or the Rings Saga of the Vikings and Germanic tribes- which Wagner elucidated. What many of these ancient myths have in common is an understanding of deeper human nature, upon which much of our modern society(s) stems. \\"The Silmarillion\\" is no different.<br />Good luck.	2002-01-26
US	50867590	RAB2JD05NBOMC	0807614033	600618684	The Future Eaters: An Ecological History of the Australasian Lands and People	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Great Southern Lands	Tim Flannery's book on the ecological history of the `Australasian lands' (Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, New Caledonia, with bits and pieces on islands such as Christmas Island, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island, etc), is both timely and refreshing. It is a good and current overview of argument and debate concerning the complex interplay of ecological and cultural forces shaping these parts of the world, from before human influence, to the times these lands were invaded at various times by homo sapien from at least 40,000-60,000 years ago (New Guinea earlier), to the present. It is very frank about the current state of these lands, in terms of environmental degradation, and what things could be done about it. It is quite controversial, and as someone who works in issues concerning biodiversity, ecology and resource sustainability, I can tell you much of the material is cutting-edge, complex, and controversial at times. In many instances Flannery is speculative and original, but often entertaining. He does back his theories and views up with substantial argument and evidence, and it is this which makes the book a cut above the ordinary.<br />One particular feature of the book worth emphasising is just how different these lands really are in terms of ecology, compared to most of the rest of the world. Not only is the flora and fauna, both extinct and living, somewhat unusual, but in, for example Australia, the climate, the influence of fire, the poor fertility or soils, and the part these factors have played in shaping the ecological past is rather surprising at times. Maladaptation of modern culture to these sorts of things is also particularly striking (for example seasonal agriculture in non-seasonal climate-early Australian colonisers, tropical agriculture in cold temperate climate-early polynesians in New Zealand). Of course early colonisers wanted, in the case of Australia, to create a `little Britain', so to speak, except that it is obvious after 200-odd years of settlement (and some of this has been rather odd), it isn't western Europe. Later idealists wanted another North America-Australia is similar in size to the USA, but it isn't in natural ecology.<br />The book is very detailed and quite complex to describe in short review. It includes chapters on early megafaunal and other extinctions from the arrival of early man in all locales, through to the present. It speculates about early human migrations to Australia, backed up for example by sediment cores from three interesting locales in Australia (Lake George particularly interesting). Discussions of diprotodon, megalania (an extinct 7m long lizard), giant moa, an extinct New Caledonian land crocodile, and 3m high kangaroos are some highlights. It is a complex story, but readers will be delighted in the unusual flora and fauna, the misguided `invasions', the arrogance, the trials, the failures and the astounding successes alike. Some particularly interesting parts for me was the demise of the New Zealand Moa-the worlds largest extinct bird, the story of virgin Lord How Island- first seen by humans of any kind in 1788, the discovery that many of Australia's marsupials descended from South America (ancient Gondwana in origin), the extraordinary array of New Zealands birds in the absence of evolving mammals, the degree of evolved co-operation amongst Australia's biota (for example self-sacrifice, and strange examples of symbiosis), and the story of Easter Island and its human contact.<br />There is a lot of controversial and complex stuff here, but it is well argued. Flannery speculates for example that Wallace's line played an important part in the `great leap forward', which I admit I didn't quite follow, with early agriculture in the New Guinea area, which spread outwards. I didn't agree with his assessment of firestick farming and agriculture in prehistoric Australia, and in this he differs from Diamond (The Third Chimpanzee/Guns Germs and Steel) in the reasons agriculture never developed in prehistoric Australia. He asserts that the reason agriculture didn't kick start in early Australia is due to poor soils, unpredictable climate (ENSO), and the prevalence of natural fire, not the lack of available biota. I don't think he is quite correct here, it is more likely competitive selection pressures, both *cultural* and ecological, in addition to isolation, did not facilitate development of the varities found in Australia, as compared to Eurasia. I also don't think his description of Australia's mineral wealth as a `one-off', is quite correct. `Mineral wealth' changes with technology, market and cultural factors. He also seems to miss evidence of some megafauna existing well after the arrival of aborigines in Australia, (it is a large and scattered ecological landmass) which I have come across elsewhere (eg Coonabarabran). I am also not sure of his view that high urbanisation in Australia is a modern maladaptation to the ENSO climate. He emphasises the influence of fire in Australian ecology, but perhaps over-emphasises in parts (his house was burnt down in a bushfire whilst writing the book, which may explain this!)<br />Nevertheless it is well argued and quite astutely written. The `Future Eaters' refers to homo sapien tending to eat his future resources and overpopulating-as occurred in New Zealand, Easter Island, and parts of colonial Australia-for example-and the human disasters which resulted form this tendency. He has a wide knowledge of the material, and certainly there are many original ideas worth thinking about. Some of the arguments will surprise readers, particularly from northern hemisphere countries, primarily because southern land masses have been, and also will be, rather different ecologically from their northern counterparts.agriculture never developed in prehistoric Australia. He asserts that the reason agriculture didn't kick start in early Australia is due to poor soils, unpredictable climate (ENSO), and the prevalence of natural fire, not the lack of available biota. I don't think he is quite correct here, it is more likely competitive selection pressures, both *cultural* and ecological, in addition to isolation, did not facilitate development of the varities found in Australia, as compared to Eurasia. I also don't think his description of Australia's mineral wealth as a `one-off', is quite correct. `Mineral wealth' changes with technology, market and cultural factors. He also seems to miss evidence of some megafauna existing well after the arrival of aborigines in Australia, (it is a large and scattered ecological landmass) which I have come across elsewhere (eg Coonabarabran). I am also not sure of his view that high urbanisation in Australia is a modern maladaptation to the ENSO climate. He emphasises the influence of fire in Australian ecology, but perhaps over-emphasises in parts (his house was burnt down in a bushfire whilst writing the book, which may explain this!)<br />Nevertheless it is well argued and quite astutely written. The `Future Eaters' refers to homo sapien tending to eat his future resources and overpopulating-as occurred in New Zealand, Easter Island, and parts of colonial Australia-for example-and the human disasters which resulted form this tendency. He has a wide knowledge of the material, and certainly there are many original ideas worth thinking about. Some of the arguments will surprise readers, particularly from northern hemisphere countries, primarily because southern land masses have been, and also will be, rather different ecologically from their northern counterparts.	2001-11-18
US	50867590	R2U9H96L5ONNWC	093518077X	489788741	Fatal Impact: An Account of the Invasion of the South Pacific 1767-1840	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Nevermore.	This is a worthwhile read. It details the effect of European expansion on Pacific cultures, and the southern hemisphere in general. It is divided into three parts-<br />1) Tahiti, which chronicles the successive voyages of Captain Cook and later explorers, and their effects on the supposed 'Noble Savage' existance (not altogether noble when Captain Cook attended a human sacrifice, for example). A detailed discussion is made of the way of life of the Tahitians before the arrival of Europeans, which is revealing and refreshing. It wasn't altogether noble, but there were many aspects of societal and family arrangements, which was envied by the Europeans.<br />2) Australia, and the effect on the aborigines-especially the Tasmanians. A good discussion is made of aboriginal culture here also, and finally<br />3) the Antarctic, and the effect Cooks' search for the elusive southern continent had on the abundance of whales and wildlife which he saw, decimated from 1790 onwards.<br />The title sums it up-the effects of exploration and expansion was devastating. Introduced diseases, misguided missionaries, imposition of inappropriate culture, alcohol-without the attendant level of acquired tolerance, one-sided treaties, indiscriminate slaughter of wildlife such as whales and seals, and so on. Painters such as Ganguin try to capture the loss of spirit of the Tahitians for example, after having their life and culture withered away, and the arguments for and against the 'noble savage' existance are revealing. This was the time of Rouseau, Diderot, and the French Revolution, and there were many myths propagated in Europe about the southern seas. Island paradise, or voyage of the damned?<br />It is *very well written*, balanced and refreshing-something often lacking in similar texts. (Never under-estimate what a good writer can do with a good story, and what a bad writer can do to a good story). Also, the best edition is definitely the illustrated version-with a number of paintings from Ganguin and others, and original sketches from those who travelled on the voyages of exploration themselves etc-these add much to the text, and it is recommended one search around to get the colour illustrated edition.<br />It is suprisingly and refreshingly good.m Ganguin and others, and original sketches from those who travelled on the voyages of exploration themselves etc-these add much to the text, and it is recommended one search around to get the colour illustrated edition. <br />It is suprisingly and refreshingly good.	2001-11-01
US	50867590	R1GH3LTB0YKW55	0520224612	451771021	Mapping the Mind	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Amongst the best in the genre	Students and enthusiasts of the brain/mind should look no further. This is a very good overview of recent ideas, research and argument regarding that complex organ of ours-the brain-and what and why it does what it does. The brain is incredibly complicated, but neuroscience in particular, in the light of evolutionary theory, magnetic resonance imaging and powerful computer modelling, is beginning to unravel its secrets.<br />The text covers a wide range of topics including: epilepsy, memory, hyper-religiosity (very brief-I think the authors are leaving that touchy topic for the future), neurotransmitters and their relation to various mental disorders, left/right brain functions and relations, left handedness, the &quot;alien hand&quot; (ala Dr Strangelove), Tourette's syndrome, &quot;blindsight&quot;, syndrome E, amnesia, obsessive compulsive disorder and its variants, schizophrenia, addiction, sex, hunger, autism, expression, emotion, fear, phobias and how they are unconsciously learned, synaethesia (crossover between the senses eg `hearing colours'), agnosia (lack of recognition-eg of faces, objects etc), illusions and prejudice (skeptics take note!), aspects of language, gossip, 'states' of mind, false memories, depression, attention deficit hyperactive disorder, and A.I. (briefly discussed). Many case examples are given of various disorders, and the spectrum of their expression.<br />A number of altered brain `states' and mental disorders are described and analysed in the light of brain modularity and evolutionary theory, in particular. Evolutionary theory is indeed providing useful answers as to how and why many unusual behavioural states/malfunctions/mechanisms occur in the brain, some of which seem to be purely `malfunctions', whilst others seem to be side-effects of other evolved mental mechanisms, whilst still others are probably there for a specific reason. One of the most interesting apsects for me is the *spectrum* that exists in many of the brain's 'disorders', and where slightly unusual brain functioning, or a weak version of a particular disorder may occasionally give a benefit in another area, and may have evolved for that reason.<br />This book is probably the most comprehensive, rounded and best in the genre of brain/mind science that I have read. It is complimented with impressive colour illustrations and a prose that is light and readable, for the enthusiastic, but non-brain specialist like myself. Excerpts and comments from related fields such as philosophy, psychiatry, evolutionary psychology, anthropology, and even archaeology etc have been inserted in highlighted boxes, which provide welcome and complimentary notes. For me, other books I have read which deal more specifically on philosophy and evolutionary psychology for example, whilst very useful, don't *for me* provide the same cutting and specific insights as neuropsychology itself is providing, and I have read a few.<br />Other books recommended in this general 'neuroscience' genre include \\"the Man Who Mistook his Wife for a Hat\\"-a readable short paperback of anecdotes, \\"Why God Won't Go Away-Brain Science and the Biology of Belief\\"-neuroscience-obviously focussing on religious predispositions, and \\"States of Mind\\"-focussing on altered brain states such as schizophrenia and depression.sorders', and where slightly unusual brain functioning, or a weak version of a particular disorder may occasionally give a benefit in another area, and may have evolved for that reason.<br />This book is probably the most comprehensive, rounded and best in the genre of brain/mind science that I have read. It is complimented with impressive colour illustrations and a prose that is light and readable, for the enthusiastic, but non-brain specialist like myself. Excerpts and comments from related fields such as philosophy, psychiatry, evolutionary psychology, anthropology, and even archaeology etc have been inserted in highlighted boxes, which provide welcome and complimentary notes. For me, other books I have read which deal more specifically on philosophy and evolutionary psychology for example, whilst very useful, don't *for me* provide the same cutting and specific insights as neuropsychology itself is providing, and I have read a few. <br />Other books recommended in this general 'neuroscience' genre include \\"the Man Who Mistook his Wife for a Hat\\"-a readable short paperback of anecdotes, \\"Why God Won't Go Away-Brain Science and the Biology of Belief\\"-neuroscience-obviously focussing on religious predispositions, and \\"States of Mind\\"-focussing on altered brain states such as schizophrenia and depression.	2001-10-26
US	50867590	R1YYSVR1X5CVHH	0253339146	128436057	Australia's Lost World: Prehistoric Animals of Riversleigh	Books	5	9	9	N	N	'Downunder' fossil extravaganza.	Riversleigh is a major World Heritage listed fossil site, primarily discovered in the late 1970s in Queensland, Australia. Since the first discoveries an abundance of prehistoric Australian fauna dating from 25 million years ago to the present has been recovered, preserved in limestone sediments and ancient caves, which testify to a formerly lush rainforest climate prevalent as Australia drifted north from Antarctica. It is unfortunate that most of Australia's present day, rather unique animals are in fact, just a remnant of what once was, when formerly higher rainfall spanned much of the continent. Many lineages and individual species, represented by the abundance recovered at Riversleigh, are now extinct and forgotten, except of course by a few enthusiastic palaeontologists, as described in this book. Readers will be surprised and delighted at the peculiar forms and fantastic colour illustrations and reconstructions presented in this book, and what things can be learnt of their extinction over time, as Australia drifted north.<br />Exquisitely illustrated, with on-site field notes and diagrams should keep the enthusiastic amateur fossil hunter entertained. An abundance of technical notes, photographs of real specimens and colour reconstructions, many of which uphold Australia's reputation for the unusual and/or the alternative, in terms of evolutionary development. Evolutionary experiments abound with examples which include 'thingadonta' (nobody really knows what it is), several species of marsupial lion, Tasmanian 'wolf' (thylacine) ancestors, flesh-eating kangaroos, several failed lines of kangaroos, several platypus ancestors, giant marsupials such as Diprotodon-the world's largest, a giant wombat, koala ancestors, numerous bats, possums, and creepy critters of all types, are presented. No primates unfortunately, and no bears or dogs, but it is interesting how some of these vacant evolutionary niches were filled by marsupial alternatives-especially in the case of the 'Tasmanian wolf', and the carnivorous marsupial 'lion'. And it is interesting to speculate what kind of alternative type of 'marsupial primate' may have (could still!) have arisen. An upright 'hominid'-like marsupial, wandering the Australian plains-who knows if Australian rainforests hadn't have all but disappeared.<br />The book puts the various animals and lineages into perspective, describing the changes of climate and habitat loss over the last 25 million years as Australia's climate became drier as the continent drifted north. Many lineages were/are in slow decline before the arrival of the aborigines and Europeans, as Australia's rainforests progressively shrank.<br />The colour illustrations and landscape reconstructions are a major feature, and they are outstanding. This book is highly recommended for the enthusiastic fossil hunter, or for those just curious in Australian animals and palaeontology in general.of the 'Tasmanian wolf', and the carnivorous marsupial 'lion'. And it is interesting to speculate what kind of alternative type of 'marsupial primate' may have (could still!) have arisen. An upright 'hominid'-like marsupial, wandering the Australian plains-who knows if Australian rainforests hadn't have all but disappeared.<br />The book puts the various animals and lineages into perspective, describing the changes of climate and habitat loss over the last 25 million years as Australia's climate became drier as the continent drifted north. Many lineages were/are in slow decline before the arrival of the aborigines and Europeans, as Australia's rainforests progressively shrank. <br />The colour illustrations and landscape reconstructions are a major feature, and they are outstanding. This book is highly recommended for the enthusiastic fossil hunter, or for those just curious in Australian animals and palaeontology in general.	2001-10-24
US	50867590	R3H285CA36DTOH	0522839290	280352686	The Rush That Never Ended: History of Australian Mining	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting analysis of human history	This book details the history of Australian Mining, but don't be put off by the seemingly dry subject-it is anything but dry. Stories are told of the romantic gold rushes, the lucky, the unlucky, the schemes, plots, the deceptions, the clouded histories, the despair of the many, and the fortune of the few. For students of both human nature and history it has interesting insights, such as how plain luck plays a significant part in human events, and how apparently small innocuous irrelevancies can lead to profound outcomes.<br />An interesting example is that of the Mount Morgan Mine in Queensland. Black boulders, which cattle shied from, formed a low hill in the ranges. There was a gold rush a few miles away, but nobody thought to test the black hill, as the rocks were all wrong. Farmers sold the useless land the cattle didn't like. A lazy miner was sacked from his job, his wife pleaded for his re-employment, in return for the locale of a \\"silver mine\\" in the hills. A few savvy mine managers wandered into a black innocuous hill. They chipped away, took out leases over the whole hill (a wise move), kept it very quiet (another wise move). When samples were broken, there was more gold than black earth-it was assumed it wasn't gold but something else. They began to mine quietly away until a local newspaper noticed there was a phenomenal amount of gold leaving a nearby town. The word was out. Mount Morgan -the \\"freak lode\\" as described by geologists at the time-became one of the richest and mightiest gold mines on earth. It defied virtually everything known about gold mines at the time. Geologists were perplexed, but as long as shares repaid 413,000% of their value, the owners didn't care. The copper that got \\"in the way\\" of gold processing eventually amounted to about 250,000t of copper. It was mined for around 100 years, and money that came from the mine was used to find oil in the Middle East, which eventually formed the company BP. Mine owners declared in World War 1, that Mount Morgan money was used to fight the Germans. In the 1950s over half of Great Britain's revenue came from oil discoveries that were originally financed by one small black hill in the outback of Australia.<br />The world's largest resource of lead and zinc-the Broken Hill Lode-is another case in point. For some years in the 1800s a large, jagged hill of black boulders more than a mile long and 500 feet wide was ignored by local prospectors at the nearby silver rushes at Silverton. A surveyor's fence was put across it. A trig station crowned the summit. Samples were chipped which came back high in uninteresting lead, but little else. It wasn't near any main thoroughfares. The owner of the land wasn't interested in prospectors. It was too big to be a lode. A good lode was said to be five feet wide, Broken Hill was over 500 feet wide. The rocks were wrong. So numerous hopefuls mined the molehills, whilst the mountain was ignored.<br />When people finally got around to examining it, a few speculators bought and sold shares, making a few bucks, as the hill guarded its riches. Finally, when a shaft was sunk on the wrong rock type-white kaolin-bonanza silver assays came back and the hill was born. The first 48 tons produced about 36,000oz of silver, which in the 1880s, was a lot of dough. The ensuing stock market mania and mining development transformed Australian history. Over $AUS 70 billion has been taken from the hill to the 1990s.<br />There are many other similar tales, twists and turns- the vagaries and tides of history. Curiously and well written, it is recommended for those interested in history, particularly Australian, or those simply interested in curious human anecdotes of life., that Mount Morgan money was used to fight the Germans. In the 1950s over half of Great Britain's revenue came from oil discoveries that were originally financed by one small black hill in the outback of Australia. <br />The world's largest resource of lead and zinc-the Broken Hill Lode-is another case in point. For some years in the 1800s a large, jagged hill of black boulders more than a mile long and 500 feet wide was ignored by local prospectors at the nearby silver rushes at Silverton. A surveyor's fence was put across it. A trig station crowned the summit. Samples were chipped which came back high in uninteresting lead, but little else. It wasn't near any main thoroughfares. The owner of the land wasn't interested in prospectors. It was too big to be a lode. A good lode was said to be five feet wide, Broken Hill was over 500 feet wide. The rocks were wrong. So numerous hopefuls mined the molehills, whilst the mountain was ignored. <br />When people finally got around to examining it, a few speculators bought and sold shares, making a few bucks, as the hill guarded its riches. Finally, when a shaft was sunk on the wrong rock type-white kaolin-bonanza silver assays came back and the hill was born. The first 48 tons produced about 36,000oz of silver, which in the 1880s, was a lot of dough. The ensuing stock market mania and mining development transformed Australian history. Over $AUS 70 billion has been taken from the hill to the 1990s. <br />There are many other similar tales, twists and turns- the vagaries and tides of history. Curiously and well written, it is recommended for those interested in history, particularly Australian, or those simply interested in curious human anecdotes of life.	2001-10-23
US	50867590	R2AXVKCO69FG4F	0684853949	358452686	The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat: And Other Clinical Tales	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The brain plays the tune, and we dance in the music.	This book is a very fun, enlightening, and interesting read for those interested in curious human stories, the way the brain functions (and malfunctions), general neurology, and those who simply like an interesting series of unusual human anecdotes of everyday life. It is the sort of general genre of the movie Rain Man, in which Tom Cruise plays a person who has an autistic brother (Dustin Hoffman) who, whilst poor in some mental functions, can also do amazing things with numbers and memory. In fact, some of the material in this book was directly incorporated into the above movie.<br />The book includes examples of brain disorders such as a man who couldn't tell the difference between his wife and a hat, people who think one of their limbs is not their own, people who can't remember what happened more than 5 minutes or so prior to the present, people who have amnesia, people who think it is 1945, people who are autistic, people who have difficulty recognising faces, people with epilepsy and its various forms, and why these things occur in the brain in the first place. Some of the sufferers are otherwise normal people, highly intelligent, and curiously enough, often musical.<br />One particularly interesting piece concerns some who suffer from autism and have unusual ability in aspects of memory and mathematics. They can `see', for example 111 matches on a floor and know this number from a brief glance, but can't multiply 10 by 12. This phenomenon has been well documented, although how their brain does this, is not understood. They can calculate what day September 12 546 AD was in seconds but can't  add of multiply simple numbers. It is suggested that their minds exist in an array of infinite numbers, and so instead of seeing objects, they see numbers. `111' just comes into their head *automatically*, the same way `a lot of matches on the floor' comes into most people, or something like that.<br />The stories are fun, peculiar, and entertaining. Good for dinner parties, or just those who are curious about this brain of ours.ies, or just those who are curious about this brain of ours.	2001-10-10
US	50867590	R3IDXNR2P0EOUJ	0881841390	944914248	The Klondike Fever: The Life and Death of the Last Great Gold Rush	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A remarkable story of life.......	Mr Berton you excel yourself. This book is very well written, meticulously accurate, entertaining, and justifies its reputation as one of the very best accounts of the last of the great gold rushes. As Mr Berton says, who grew up in the site of the infamous rush in Dawson City, \\"it was certainly one of the strangest mass movements of human beings in history.\\". At least 100,000 people from all over the world set out seriously for the gold fields on the remote Klondike Valley in the late 1890s. (Probably at least 5 times that many set out half seriously, but never managed to get even close to the Klondike). Of these, only around 30,000 actually made it to their destination. Of those who made it, only around 0.5% actually made any decent money. Of those, most blew their money, and very few indeed managed to keep their money for the rest of their lives. Thousands perished on route, most of these succumbing to poorly planned expeditions, over mountainous passes and remote icefields that they never dreamed of when they set out. Most of those who actually arrived in the remote location were too exhausted financially, emotionally and physically, to bother looking for gold. Furthermore, when they arrived they found that all the land was already staked. Most simply booked a ticket on the nearest steamship, and went home.<br /><br />Amongst the way there were many bizzare and tragic stories, which are too many to detail here. Avalanches, sunken ships, freezing winters, con-men, women, children, old men and young, gamblers, dance hall girls, swindlers, dead horses, suicides, -they were all there. The desperate, the poor, the rich, the ignorant, the informed, the millionaire and the pauper alike, rubbed shoulders in a wild human exodus that has seen little like it, before or since. Some of the stories Mr Berton meticulously relates, simply beg belief. It was a time of general insanity, set amidst a terrible depression, which helped spark off the 'fever', or mania being a more apt term. After news arrived of fabulous riches in gold found in Dawson, some tried to get to Dawson on bicycle, others on huge wheeled contraptions, others thought they would walk there with a handful of nuts. What many didn't realise, was that there was a reason this phenomenoly rich gold field was discovered so late in time compared to many others-it was absurdly difficult to get to. Experienced, grizzley old miners would have had serious trouble getting and surviving there over several winters, to the average office clerk, dentist and city type, it was nigh impossible-as they soon found. Many were conned and caught up in a general mania, whilst many others died. All the stories, all the tragedies, the colour, the mania, the lucky and the unlucky are described.<br /><br />James Michener thought much of the book, and based his novel Journey, another exellent story of this gold rush, on parts of the Edmonton stories contained herein.<br /><br />It is a story of humanity as good as any. A delight to read on cold winters nights, in the safety and security of a warm fire, a homely house, and a hot meal. Many in this book gave up this and more for a dream that could never be fulfilled, for they were too late, and even though they were willing to die trying.<br /><br />They didn't know that the past was already behind them....After news arrived of fabulous riches in gold found in Dawson, some tried to get to Dawson on bicycle, others on huge wheeled contraptions, others thought they would walk there with a handful of nuts. What many didn't realise, was that there was a reason this phenomenoly rich gold field was discovered so late in time compared to many others-it was absurdly difficult to get to. Experienced, grizzley old miners would have had serious trouble getting and surviving there over several winters, to the average office clerk, dentist and city type, it was nigh impossible-as they soon found. Many were conned and caught up in a general mania, whilst many others died. All the stories, all the tragedies, the colour, the mania, the lucky and the unlucky are described.     James Michener thought much of the book, and based his novel Journey, another exellent story of this gold rush, on parts of the Edmonton stories contained herein.     It is a story of humanity as good as any. A delight to read on cold winters nights, in the safety and security of a warm fire, a homely house, and a hot meal. Many in this book gave up this and more for a dream that could never be fulfilled, for they were too late, and even though they were willing to die trying.     They didn't know that the past was already behind them....	2001-08-08
US	50867590	RXW1AJ92HPRPE	0387949151	57752620	The Call of Distant Mammoths: Why the Ice Age Mammals Disappeared	Books	5	25	31	N	N	The real elephant graveyards......	The extinction of ice age mammals and other megafauna is not just a periphereral topic. It is important because, as Mr Ward duly points out, in a sense WE are Ice age megafauna. The mammoths and mastodons and their extinctions are particularly interesting, not just from their romantic appeal, but because they are indeed representative of much that we can learn about what happened to other megafauna at the same time, and indeed about ourselves. A selection of both the probiscideans (elephant line) and hominids wandered out of Africa during the last few million years. Both hominids and the various probiscideans are large and adaptable to varying environmental conditions, including ice ages. Both seem wanderers by nature. Both are intelligent and social animals. Both have few natural predators. Both were very successful during climatic change, including the Ice Ages. Emphasis on WERE. What happened to the mammoths, and other megafauna? This book seeks to answer such a question- the causes, and moreover, the lessons we can learn from this about our own selves.<br />Their extinction is not simple. Overhunting by humans is considered the most likely and significant cause, although there may well have been other contributing factors. Mr Ward contends that the end of the last ice age(s) created stress for mammoths and some other megafaunal species, which humans were then able to push over the edge through overhunting. It is true to say that without humans, they never would have gone extinct, as they survived many other climatic changes. However, the stress that was created by these climatic changes reduced their natural 'immunity' to such predators as humans in the first place, making it easier for humans to drive them to extinction. Basically, we kick other species when they are down.<br />There are interesting discussions on wave front (killings), species threshhold and the like, stress, environmental change, elephant-and by correlation-suspected aspects of mammoth behaviour and nature, including gestation, rate of birth, mortality and its causes, and so on. Studies on modern elephants help us gain insight into what the mammoths might have been like, and so this book is also a good read for those who are interested in elephants in general. Some snippets include how elephants increase birth rates under stress, neglect their young in times of drought, the problems of poaching, their eating habits, and why they survived in Africa (they are already extinct in the wild in India).<br />The basic thrust of the book concerns the debate between overhunting and the Clovis hunters which are suspected to account for their demise, and environmental causes. There are also some discussions on the extinction of other Ice age megafauna such as the diprotodon of Australia-a very large extinct elephant-like marsupial herbivore (there is a skeleton in the Coonabarabran Information Centre in NSW, Australia, recently found, which I have seen, with what looks like a spear point in its ribs), and others. There are overviews from various studies on Quaternary extinctions in general, throughout the world, although Mr Ward focuses primarily on mammoths.<br />It is a very readable and entertaining book, neither long-winded nor self-congratulatory. However one criticism is that perhaps Mr Ward could have discussed other megafauna in more detail, especially in places like Madagascar, New Zealand and Australia. He does mention these places and their extinct megafauna, but only really in passing. (There isn't much on Australia Mr Ward!). But of course the book is about *mammoths*, I suppose.<br />The book is quite readable, entertaining, and anything but dry. And I also think it gets better as it goes along, towards the end he introduces some interesting possible twists to the tale of mammoth extinction, and about ourselves, but you will have to read them yourself. Suffice to say those ice ages we have come through may have had more influence on human prehistory than we have formerly given credit.<br />It really is an excellent book which thoroughly deserves more circulation, full of rare insights and romance. For science enthusiasts, animal and murder mystery lovers, put it on your shelf. I doubt you will regret it.ory than we have formerly given credit.<br />It really is an excellent book which thoroughly deserves more circulation, full of rare insights and romance. For science enthusiasts, animal and murder mystery lovers, put it on your shelf. I doubt you will regret it.	2001-08-07
US	50867590	R1IZGLATQIME21	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Island Paradise?	This book concerns an exceptionally interesting and important topic-&quot;island biogeography&quot;-which can teach most of us continental types a thing or two. The nature, origin and distribution of island flora and fauna reveals scientific wonders and beauty that only those who've studied or actually been to remote and idyllic islands, can know and appreciate. If you don't have time to traverse wild remote islands and undertake a detailed study of their biota on your own to find scientific wonders that can scarcely be imagined, this book provides an easier alternative-a summary of the biological goings-on in these remote places, and the scientific discussions and arguments which surround them. And like many other aspects of things beautiful on the surface, there is another side- a side ancient, deep, and dark.<br />Quamman's book details much of the natural history of island life, and the history of their study, including the various players such as Wallace, Darwin, Wilson, Macarthur and others. The Theory of Island Biogeography (1968), much quoted in the text, is an excellent work, published in the 1960s by Macarthur and Wilson, and which still has much relevance to discussions on evoltionary theory today. Interested readers might like to peruse it, as I have done.<br />There are discussions on most of the remote islands of the world such as Madagascar, New Guinea, Bali, New Zealand (could have been more detailed -Mr Quamman!), Australia (again, not his most studied area I am afraid to say, being an Australian myself), Maurituis, Aldabra, and so on. The significance and discovery of the Wallace Line is discussed in detail, along with that poorly recognised and forgotten naturalist-Wallace himself. He didn't mention much about 'herbaceous woodinesss', (which is apoint I think is rather significant), but there is much about the so-called 'ecological unravelling' as related to habitat fragmentation, area-species relationships, dispersal, tameness (what he called naiviete), radiation, divergance and convergance, dwarfism, gigantism, founder effects, punctuated equilibrium (accept the broiling for now-it's good for science), and so on.<br />All the evolutionary theory you'd ever want goes on unmasked on remote isolated islands-if only people knew.<br />One criticism is that the book is at times long winded, I found it easier to skip over some topics I wasn't all that interested in (eg Guam, and others)-I suggest readers pick for themselves which areas they want to read about. Another criticism is that there should be more pictures-biology is a visually profound science! Who knows what a thylacine or a spotted quoll really looks like?<br />When I was at university I had the pleasure of attending a course on island biogeography by a naturalist who had spent many years traversing and cavorting across most of the worlds most remote islands. It was the most invigorating course I ever attended. What goes on 'out there', is a window into what goes on here, on bigger land masses, as Darwin, Wallace and others discovered. Not only that, they are beautiful places to boot.<br />Read it and wonder for yourself.viete), radiation, divergance and convergance, dwarfism, gigantism, founder effects, punctuated equilibrium (accept the broiling for now-it's good for science), and so on. <br />All the evolutionary theory you'd ever want goes on unmasked on remote isolated islands-if only people knew.<br />One criticism is that the book is at times long winded, I found it easier to skip over some topics I wasn't all that interested in (eg Guam, and others)-I suggest readers pick for themselves which areas they want to read about. Another criticism is that there should be more pictures-biology is a visually profound science! Who knows what a thylacine or a spotted quoll really looks like? <br />When I was at university I had the pleasure of attending a course on island biogeography by a naturalist who had spent many years traversing and cavorting across most of the worlds most remote islands. It was the most invigorating course I ever attended. What goes on 'out there', is a window into what goes on here, on bigger land masses, as Darwin, Wallace and others discovered. Not only that, they are beautiful places to boot. <br />Read it and wonder for yourself.	2001-08-06
US	50867590	RCY5UZ64DT4P1	0345440331	920633675	Why God Won't Go Away: Brain Science and the Biology of Belief	Books	5	29	36	N	Y	Excellent overview of the science of religious experience	There is a very good overview of current scientific research and argument regarding the nature of religious and mystical exerience here. Recent research into the neurological origins of religion, the stunning compatibilities between various religious myths and inclinations, the function and universality of ritual (across the animal kingdom), the commonness of lesser mystical experience and ritual-such as music, art, or by simply taking a bath, and the social cohesian and function that religion plays in virtually any society, are all discussed.<br />The book also details the long standing arguments about whether various deep religious experience is an expression of some kind of mental disorder(s), or a higher brain function useful for specific purposes. It notes for example that highly religious persons throughout the ages have often also been significant achievers. This appears to be imcompatible with the notion that they are 'mentally disordered'. The book asserts that for whatever reason 'altered brain states' occur, there was/is a significant evolutionary reason for them to have been selected in the first place. This is an important point;- altered brain states, including mystical/religious experience, probably had their origin in the struggle for existance, which was then utilised for other circumstances. The origin of myth-making and ritual in the human condition for example, is discussed in this way. There are also discussions on the importance of conflict, contradiction and resolution in religious ritual and myth, and their likely evolutionary origins.<br />Many of the books early assertions appear to be summations and ideas strung together from elsewhere, but the book in the second half becomes more controversial in asserting that the altered mental states or 'higher reality', as described variously by mystics, may in fact BE an alternative/higher reality, and not a cultural interpretation of unusual brain functioning. This is a bold assertion, which requires some weighty evidence. The evidence presented in this book however appears to rest mostly on shaky anecdotal support, &quot;I experienced a highly significant event, therefore my interpretation of this event must also be correct&quot;. The authors suggest that various mystical/religious experience may imply the existance of an independant 'higher reality', which brain evolution has already cottoned onto. The authors seem to suggest that whilst most people who have some kind of religious experience do in fact misinterpret them, it is still possible that they are ultimately right-an independant and profound reality exists, independent of the evolution of the senses and the self. Whilst conceding the possibility, I personally need more evidence of this concept of 'God' to accept that this experience isn't just a fundamentally important ability of the brain, to give us survival, purpose and meaning, but not necassarily a connection to an external 'God' or 'reality', however you may want to define this 'reality'.<br />Ultimately there are two possibilities this book suggests to account for religious experience. 1) It is fundamentally a state of mind, selected by evolution and useful for survival in predominantly past environments 2) It is the evolution into a higher reality, something we are perhaps 'evolving into'. The jury is out for me on this one. I don't know whether as a scientist we are evolving into &quot;religion&quot;, or out of it, but I do recognise its origins in the evolution of the brain. It seems clear to me, that evolution selected the altered mental states this book describes (and some of which I have experienced) for various individual/group survival purposes, which can then be used/modified for other purposes. Whatever is the case, soemthing strange is going on in this brain of ours.<br />I agreed with the books view that many of the simple things we do for example, as humans, are simply variations of the 'ritual' experience-such as taking a relaxing bath, or listening to rythmical music. These have been shown to stimulate areas of the brain in a similar way to relgious ritual and association. Interestingly, there also seems to be a link between various altered brain states/mystical/religious experience and the evolution of the orgasm. There are many similarities-they are associated with the same brain areas, and they both produce deeply profound and satisfying 'brain-body' experiences. The evolution of some religious experience may in fact be linked with a kind of schism in the sexual experience within the brain. It is an interesting idea.<br />There is also good balance in this book between recognising that 'religious experience' is not all for fuddy-duddies. It is real, and it has played a huge and benificial part in human development. It is asserted however, that it is often misunderstood. Rather than being a window to 'God', it may simply be a neuorological ability of the brain, to deal with difficult environments. It's apparently unusual social expression is easily misunderstood.<br />The book only briefly touches on the negative side of religious experience, and simply notes that any human activity can be perverted, or misused. It was not the purpose of this book to focus on the negative social aspects of religion, other than to perhaps note that it is possible much of this is possibly the incomplete mental expression of these mental mechanisms.<br />The title pretty much covers the content-'God' isn't going away so easily, primarily because we have a biological tendancy to religious experience. Science is only just beginning to learn of the social benefits of various religious states and mental associations. This book is definitely a step in the right direction. I don't think any scientist can call himself a lover of humanity who doesn't seek to at least examine the basis and the implications of the ideas presented in this book, with an open mind.ing bath, or listening to rythmical music. These have been shown to stimulate areas of the brain in a similar way to relgious ritual and association. Interestingly, there also seems to be a link between various altered brain states/mystical/religious experience and the evolution of the orgasm. There are many similarities-they are associated with the same brain areas, and they both produce deeply profound and satisfying 'brain-body' experiences. The evolution of some religious experience may in fact be linked with a kind of schism in the sexual experience within the brain. It is an interesting idea. <br />There is also good balance in this book between recognising that 'religious experience' is not all for fuddy-duddies. It is real, and it has played a huge and benificial part in human development. It is asserted however, that it is often misunderstood. Rather than being a window to 'God', it may simply be a neuorological ability of the brain, to deal with difficult environments. It's apparently unusual social expression is easily misunderstood. <br />The book only briefly touches on the negative side of religious experience, and simply notes that any human activity can be perverted, or misused. It was not the purpose of this book to focus on the negative social aspects of religion, other than to perhaps note that it is possible much of this is possibly the incomplete mental expression of these mental mechanisms. <br />The title pretty much covers the content-'God' isn't going away so easily, primarily because we have a biological tendancy to religious experience. Science is only just beginning to learn of the social benefits of various religious states and mental associations. This book is definitely a step in the right direction. I don't think any scientist can call himself a lover of humanity who doesn't seek to at least examine the basis and the implications of the ideas presented in this book, with an open mind.	2001-06-08
US	50867590	R8DWE0TWJMQ4E	0674440757	938934461	Ice Ages: Solving the Mystery	Books	4	48	49	N	N	The Earth's past climate-more important than you think	As a geologist, this book answered a lot of questions I've had concerning the cause(s) of the ice ages. I'd known about rumours about the configuration of the continents, Milankovitch's astronomical cycles, variation in sun output, changes in ocean currents, and so on, for some years, but I really needed a detailed analysis of the historical arguments, and the more recent evidence as to why these changes in the earth's climate occur. This book answers just about all I needed to know, as well as being a good study of historical science. It was some time before all the pieces began to fit, and there are still some unexplained aspects, such as why the 100,000 glacial cycle is stronger than the 20,000 and 40,000 year cycles. Also, early arguments revolving around the Biblical flood are enlightening.<br />This book details all the theories, and the history behind their development. From deep sea radiolarians, to terraced reefs in the equatorial regions, to vegetation studies in Europe, to the level of snow on Ethiopia's mountains, to axis and ellitpical variations in the earth's orbit, to the gravitational effect of the pull on the earth from other planets, to oxygen isotope studies, to graphs of variation in thermal energy, temperature and sea level at different lattitudes-both expected from Milankovitch cycles-and actual from deep sea analysis, this book pretty much covers all you need to know. The only drawback is it has missed a few recent ideas in the 1980s to 1990s, but the story was pretty much over by then. Pretty conclusive evidence is detailed on how regular and episodic variations in the earth's orbit around the sun trigger periodically cooler climates than at present. These have been particularly strong in the last 1.5 million years or so, which is thought to do with the configuration of recent continental geography. In the last 7,000 years the tmeperature has dropped around 2 degrees, and will continue to drop over the next several thousand years at least, albeit very slowly, if it wasn't of course for the already verified greenhouse warming. Unfortunately, being published in the late 1970s, the book has not captured much of the recent data and debate concerning the greenhouse effect, but is nevertheless an intriguing and enlightening expose of earth climate variations.<br />The other thing which struck me just a little, was the fact that the major ice age periods in the earth's past have been at or around 3 interesting changes or developments in evolutionary history-the Permo-Carboniferous (ie Permian-Triassic extinction), Pre-Cambrian (multicelled organisms), and Quaternary-Recent (hominids). Certianly the hominid succession has been mostly within major changes in the earths climate, including significantly colder periods, and vast ice sheets across northern lattitudes. Maybe coincidental, but something to think about.lbeit very slowly, if it wasn't of course for the already verified greenhouse warming. Unfortunately, being published in the late 1970s, the book has not captured much of the recent data and debate concerning the greenhouse effect, but is nevertheless an intriguing and enlightening expose of earth climate variations.<br />The other thing which struck me just a little, was the fact that the major ice age periods in the earth's past have been at or around 3 interesting changes or developments in evolutionary history-the Permo-Carboniferous (ie Permian-Triassic extinction), Pre-Cambrian (multicelled organisms), and Quaternary-Recent (hominids). Certianly the hominid succession has been mostly within major changes in the earths climate, including significantly colder periods, and vast ice sheets across northern lattitudes. Maybe coincidental, but something to think about.	2001-05-06
US	50867590	R36KY1TU1BTSH7	0465004199	183083723	Are We Alone?: Philosophical Implications Of The Discovery Of Extraterrestrial Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent , clear overview of astrobiology	This book is a very good overview of current debate and discovery concerning various aspects of the nature and origin of life. One of the best things about this book is the level of detail, sourced from a variety of disciplines. Another strength is Paul Davies' impassioned, clear, reasoned and objective writing style. He discusses all the various arguments, subjects them to critical analysis, and formulates conclusions based on the available evidence. It is delightful to read an overview of scientific debate which doesn't jump to sides, but critically examines alternative arguments, regardless of source. In other words, biology, physics, mathematics, history, poetry, geology, chemistry, biochemistry, theology, philosophy, etc etc (in no particular order) all have something to say about this topic. Moreover, Paul Davies doesn't seem to need to sell or convince anybody of his ideas. His job isn't on the line, he doesn't need the money, and he has enough experience to realise just how complicated processes in the universe can be. He is delightfully distant, and objectively impassioned. He simply reasons, and allows the reader to agree, or disagree. His knowledge of the various arguments are also pretty sound.<br />Paul Davies outlines the arguments both for and against intelligent life being common in the universe including Carter's Anthropic principle, Fermi's paradox, Darwinism, chaos theory, edge-of-chaos theory, Boolean algebra, and quantum indeterminism. There is an interesting discussion on Van Neumann Machines (intelligent space probes), and artificial intelligence. Keen advocates of these ideas, Mr Davies notes,  are reminded that there may be more to the technology required in sending these intelligent machines off into space than we might think. Chaos and complexity theory might have something to say about the Von Neumann machine, as it did with several other bungled scientific endeavours.<br />Panspermia-the spreading of micro-organisms between star systems- is also discussed. It is a growing idea. For example, it was only recently reported (too recent for this book, unfortunately) that scientists have re-created conditions in space in the early formation of the solar system, and came up with more complex organic molecules than those previously found from early \\"Earth-soup\\" experiments. Maybe, life originated in the turbulent conditions of space-in which case it should be relatively common in the universe, developing further on planets where conditions are favourable. Furthermore, it was recently reported that microbes from a 300 million-year-old gas bubble were released, and promptly started to reproduce. Put these inside a large asteroid and send it off into space, and you could theoretically seed planets on the other side of the galaxy.<br />Mr Davies' thinks intelligent life is relatively common in the universe, based on the notion that it is the \\"natural outcome of the laws of physics\\"-but notes that perhaps the most compulsive argument against this is neo-Darwinism. (Although not all neo-Darwinists would agree). He is not a strict Darwinist, in the sense that he suspects something is incomplete-not wrong- about Darwinism. One recent notion for example to support intelligent being common, is that of the `edge of chaos', whereby some systems exist at a kind of boundary of `order', and are highly sensitive to very small changes-they can self-organise and/or rapidly jump in complexity, and/or revert to chaos rather easily. These systems have important implications to the nature and origin of life, in that they imply a directional component to the natural workings of the universe. Mr Davies does note however, that biologists are unhappy with any kind of `direction' in the `chaos' that is evolution, lest `Design' should slip in the back door. But the problem with this view is that `chaos' is not simple. The universe, Mr Davies suggests, tends towards complexity and organisation-it is fundamentally built-in to the physics of the universe. In which case, intelligence should arise as part of the normal processes of the laws of physics. These ideas are in stark contrast to the commonly held view that intelligence is so highly improbable even given abundant simple life, that it is unlikely to occur elsewhere.<br />This book is a very good overview of current knowledge and theory, only slightly dated as at May, 2001. Rare Earth is another book for keen readers of this field, which argues that intelligent life is very uncommon in the universe. In my view this book is more 'true to life', so to speak, with more varied ideas, and a greater understanding of humanity and science.sics of the universe. In which case, intelligence should arise as part of the normal processes of the laws of physics. These ideas are in stark contrast to the commonly held view that intelligence is so highly improbable even given abundant simple life, that it is unlikely to occur elsewhere. <br />This book is a very good overview of current knowledge and theory, only slightly dated as at May, 2001. Rare Earth is another book for keen readers of this field, which argues that intelligent life is very uncommon in the universe. In my view this book is more 'true to life', so to speak, with more varied ideas, and a greater understanding of humanity and science.	2001-05-04
US	50867590	RKX9HCO81IP3I	0679744681	834734746	The Left-Hander Syndrome: The Causes and Consequences of Left-Handedness	Books	5	62	62	N	N	All hands are equal,but one hand is more equal than the other	Well well, there is some very interesting stuff here. Why are only around 10% of the population left handed? Is this genetic or learned? And what does this mean for tool making, writing, driving, accident proneness, societal prejudice, sporting pursuits, and general living as a left hander? You might also be interested to know that around 20% of people are left footed, and around 40% of people are left eyed. Also more woman are right handed than men. And then there are the mixed types, the ambidextorous, and also those who mix different activities and their handedness- say writing and throwing. A surpising number of people are actually mixed types, and this increases for footedness and eyedness.<br />This book is a good overview of various statistics, and what it means to live as a left hander in a right handed world. The author has conducted many years research into various studies, from identical twin studies, to family studies, to genes and learning, to the way tools are designed, and how left handers cope with these sorts of things in general. Bias, prejudice, and general policies are discussed, both historically and in recent times. (Everyone knows the old rap over the knuckle for left handed school students several generations ago, but where have we come from there?).<br />The author mentions his university in the 1990s where all the chairs in his lecture theatre have right-sided writing areas. (Being left handed in writing, I also remember having to cope with this at university. I also remember smudging most of my first ink pen writing in primary school-left handed writers will know what I am talking about!).<br />One of the best things about this book is the detail. Not only is there analyses of handedness, but as mentioned, footedness, eyeness, and even earness. Which ear do you listen to your watch with? Also, mixed handed types are discussed, along with various sports, and degree of lefthandness (and right handedness!) in each, and where it may be useful to be more of a mixed type for some sports (eg soccer with mixed footedness, and basketball with mixed handedness). Readers are given personal questionaires to determine their general level of left or right handedness, footedness, earness, and eyeness. Links with brain states and brain areas, personality types, tendancy to certain careers and so on is also discussed. Famous lefties are also listed.<br />The book is a must for the curious leftie, and for those who are interested in where this curious, and rather little studied aspect of humanity is taking us.to be more of a mixed type for some sports (eg soccer with mixed footedness, and basketball with mixed handedness). Readers are given personal questionaires to determine their general level of left or right handedness, footedness, earness, and eyeness. Links with brain states and brain areas, personality types, tendancy to certain careers and so on is also discussed. Famous lefties are also listed.<br />The book is a must for the curious leftie, and for those who are interested in where this curious, and rather little studied aspect of humanity is taking us.	2001-04-19
US	50867590	R1EOPWQQIZE522	0471399736	543893298	States of Mind: New Discoveries About How Our Brains Make Us Who We Are	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I raise my glass to science	I was most impressed with this book. Firstly, there is the correct attitude to approach the subject, with humility, and open discussion. There are no bones to pick, no doctrines to sell. Just a gathering together to try and understand something enormously relevant and complicated-the brain. Secondly, it is at the forefront of academic research. Thirdly, it is eminently readable.<br />The brain is an important subject to study. A proper understanding of its functioning and 'malfunctioning' can only help humanity. Brain scientists are gathering together from various sub-disciplines of the greater field of biology, including evolution and genetics, immunology, biochemistry, and cellular biology, to understand the brain. Those beetle watchers have upstarted the academic community again! Not surpising, since we happen to be animals, part of the biosphere. (Incidentally, this includes our brains).<br />There are up to date discussions on such things as susceptibility, 'second hits' (environmental influence), addiction, learning, shyness, introvert/extravert behavioural dispositions, mood disorders, creativity, manic depression, and schizophrenia, with some interesting analyses of famous poets, writers and artists included. Stress, what it means, the relationship to the immune system, and advances in therapy are discussed. Emotions, fear, and reason is discussed in the light of recent ideas and discoveries. Finally dreams, what they are, and what they do and don't mean.<br />There is a lot of good stuff here. Most importantly was the bringing together of ideas and research from various disciplines-we might like to compartmentalise our various learning streams in society-but that isn't necasarily how the brain operates. The links between stress, the immune system and the brain is a good example. There are real discoveries here, and real solutions. Facilitated by cross-fertilisation of ideas, and co-operation amongst disciplines. It is great stuff.<br />I look forward to what may be the coming 'century of the brain'. This book, in both its attitudes, and its discoveries, I found inspirational.hat may be the coming 'century of the brain'. This book, in both its attitudes, and its discoveries, I found inspirational.	2001-03-31
US	50867590	R2D4DJSRMZRCSP	067974049X	340888074	The Big Bang Never Happened: A Startling Refutation of the Dominant Theory of the Origin of the Universe	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Nagging doubts....	Firstly, as someone with only a superficial knowledge of astrophysics, I don't feel qualified enough to comment on many of the details of this book. My nagging suspicions are based on comments like \\"it is impossible for the Big Bang theory to be wrong\\", and the 'theory of everything' mentality of some modern physicists. (People in 1,000 years may look back at these sorts of comments and laugh). There isn't even a theory and/or set of equations yet known which adequately explain non-locality, `instantaneous effects' and various other aspects of quantum physics, and until there is, it seems obvious to me (at least as an independent observer) that there is probably not going to be an adequate `theory of everything', either. Maybe the answer(s) is not anything like mathematics, (which only partially models reality), but in something else altogether. Unified, simple theories provide simple answers to the populace, but `simple answers' is not necessarily how the universe operates. In the presence of unexplained data (eg proven instantaneous effects between particles), politics can seep in, and politics can sometimes mean oversimplification. The `Big Bang' may just be an example of this, or alternatively, it may just be premature. It must also be remembered that the 'Big Bang' theory was very much in doubt in the first half of the twentieth century, including from Einstein himself, before it gradually gained more consensus. These are the kinds of issues which attracted me to this book.<br /><br />Mr Lerner is a plasma physicist who discusses the historical development of the Big Bang theory with a skeptical eye. He argues that his particular field has been virtually ignored from various debates in astrophysics, and some of the findings within plasma physics which he details suggest other interpretations of the origin and nature of the universe than is currently the mainstream.<br /><br />He provides some intriguing alternative ideas concerning the background radiation, the red shift, the chemical makeup of the universe, quasars and dark matter, to take just a few examples. He points out that the 'Big Bang' theory is based on several strings of evidence which do not appear to be the only possible explanations, in particular the microwave background radiation. He also places particular emphasis on issues concerning galaxy superclusters, and within galaxies themselves (including the assumption of `dark matter' to fill a hole in the Big Bang model), which were not predicted by the model of the Big Bang.<br /><br />Mr Lerners' discussion does not contradict much of what we know in the universe-its great age, its enormous size, and so on. But he suggests that if anything, it may be very much older than the model of the Big Bang suggests-how old we just don't know. The book is by now dated, but I found it useful in highlighting alternative ideas and historical developments, from someone with knowledge and research to back up his assertions.<br /><br />A book for the open minded, and if you here mainstream physicists saying some silly things.chemical makeup of the universe, quasars and dark matter, to take just a few examples. He points out that the 'Big Bang' theory is based on several strings of evidence which do not appear to be the only possible explanations, in particular the microwave background radiation. He also places particular emphasis on issues concerning galaxy superclusters, and within galaxies themselves (including the assumption of `dark matter' to fill a hole in the Big Bang model), which were not predicted by the model of the Big Bang.     Mr Lerners' discussion does not contradict much of what we know in the universe-its great age, its enormous size, and so on. But he suggests that if anything, it may be very much older than the model of the Big Bang suggests-how old we just don't know. The book is by now dated, but I found it useful in highlighting alternative ideas and historical developments, from someone with knowledge and research to back up his assertions.     A book for the open minded, and if you here mainstream physicists saying some silly things.	2001-03-24
US	50867590	R1DBKMM7HAGYR0	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	4	89	93	N	N	If you are busy, catch up on your essential history here	This is a light, easy-to-read, short, informative, witty, and amusing look at life 1000 years ago, in England. If you are a busybody at work or in life, and don't have time for endless volumes of detailed historical analysis, and want something light, short, and to the point, this is the book for you. Take it on a short holiday, read it on the train on the way to work, or just amuse yourself at home with a lighthearted look at life 1000 years ago. You may be surprised at some of the insights outlined here.<br />For example their diet was very different to ours. No spinach, tomatoe, potatoe, tea, coffee or chicken. Farming life was hard, and overall hygiene was of little importance, as without knowledge of disease subsistence and survival was placed higher on the list than clean dinner plates. Smelly residences were taken as given, as one simply lived with the inconvenience of dung from animals as part of ones daily life. No smoke from cars, or cigarretes, or noise from airplanes and highways, but smelly dung was eveywhere. There were no forks at the table, just knives. If you dropped your food on the floor, you ate it, but one recited a saintly word for the privelage. Clothes were less flamboyant, but coloured by innovative dyes. The queen in chess was of little importance and power, until Queen Elizabeth came around several centuries later. There sorts of details are just a few of the many intriguing bits of information presented in the book.<br />There is lots more, but you will have to muse over these in that 21st century train, bus, leather lounge, clean-sheeted bed, or by that modern resort swimming pool yourself. Lucky aren't we? Perhaps in another thousand years people will read about these sorts of things in their different lifestyles, think themselves lucky, and be thankful for our memories and contribution. I have no doubt they will.	2001-03-05
US	50867590	R3R0BT73QHFTK0	0851242871	899731913	Greek Science	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Much heaven and earth in your philosophy, Mr Farrington!	This is an excellent overview of Greek Science-its main players, general ideas and overall history-why and how it arose, how it progressed, (or at times digressed), and why it declined. These matters are, like the subject matter of 'science' itself, very complex. Mr Farrington provides some very clear and intriguing ideas concerning the history and nature of Greek Science, which also impressed the astronomer Carl Sagan so much that he refers to them in his great book-Cosmos, which is how I was drawn to this book. It doesn't disappoint.<br />Mr Farringtons theory of the origin of Greek science is different to others I have read (eg Lloyds Early Greek Science which suggests that Greek science in Ionia arose from a troubled political climate, which led to a critical assessment of not only political ideas, but also the natural world). Here we have the idea that early Greek Science grew from a successful group of seafarers and merchants, who, finding themselves free from the constraints of mythology and politics, serving no formal political state, found that their practical cleverness and business acumen which had given them their success could be applied to a study of the natural world. It appears that this was generally so as to further increase their business successes ie it was a practical approach. Various inventions followed. There was a distinct distrust of accepted mythology. Man was seen as part of the natural world, having arisen from it. \\"Man became wise through his hands\\", rather than \\"he had hands because he was wise\\"-which was a later belief of Plato.  The Ionians were 1) clever 2) successful 3) free thinkers, 4) not marred by incessant wars and politics 5) understood that religion and politics were unsatisfactory in describing the natural world as it was. 6) Being the sons of farmers, sailors, and tradespeople, they were constantly 'interacting' with their environment, and thus were able to understand `techniques' of utilising their skills with the environment, which had enabled their successes. 'Techniques' they learned from their trades, were then applied to understand the natural world. It was a very common sense approach, free from politics, mythology, and religion.<br />Mr Farrington traces the origins of this science through its developments into astronomy, mathematics, biology, political science, medicine, geology, etc etc. It is a far more comprehensive account than Lloyds Early Greek Science, which is also a recommended book in this genre. The thrust of Mr Farringtons analysis of the decline of ancient science however, is the widespread practice of slavery. The development and formalisation of slavery undermined, in Mr Farringtons view, the progress and maintenance of science in the ancient world. As Mr Sagan suggests \\"the permanence of the stars was questioned, the justice of slavery was not\\". It is Mr Farringtons view that  slavery spelled the death knell to the continuance of ancient science, primarily because the application of practical, labour intensive techniques, being concentrated in the slave class was not synergetic to the theoretical approach of the citizen/ruling class. Ie the political distinction which developed between the use of thought, and the use of the hand, choked scientific development. It was not in the interests of the slave owners to become more practical, only to get more slaves to better the lives of themselves, not humanity. It was not in their general interests to 'better' things, only maintain the status quo. Mr Farrington explains the ramifications of slavery and the complex politics involved better than I can. Suffice to say that the practise of slavery is proposed to have had an immense influence on the decline of science in the ancient world.<br />I'm not sure that other factors were not involved more than Mr Farrington suggests, such as the rise of Christianity, which he does mention but not pursue in any great detail, but his analyses are nevertheless very enlightening and scholarly. Of interest to me was how much Christianity seems to have borrowed from the political ideas of the Greeks-ideas that in themselves were `anti-science'. Plato does not fare well as a crusader for science, even though his cultural and political contributions to the western world are great. Christianity seems to borrow much from the Greeks but does so selectively-Greek politics yes, Greek science no.<br />A cherish to read. Highly recommended for students of history and the philosophy and nature of science. See also Cosmos by Carl Sagan for a good/better summary of Mr Farringtons arguments.and scholarly. Of interest to me was how much Christianity seems to have borrowed from the political ideas of the Greeks-ideas that in themselves were `anti-science'. Plato does not fare well as a crusader for science, even though his cultural and political contributions to the western world are great. Christianity seems to borrow much from the Greeks but does so selectively-Greek politics yes, Greek science no.<br />A cherish to read. Highly recommended for students of history and the philosophy and nature of science. See also Cosmos by Carl Sagan for a good/better summary of Mr Farringtons arguments.	2001-01-15
US	50867590	R2G6GLW1QNFHAE	0345331354	979388730	Cosmos	Books	5	99	108	N	N	Surely one of the greatest of all books.	I first saw the series COSMOS on TV in about 1980 when I was about 12, and have been searching for similar material ever since. Carl Sagan is able to capture the mystery and the beauty of astronomy, science, art and religion in a way that most poeple can follow, and in a way that is interesting and invigorating. He is a very clear thinker and presenter. And this book, based on that very popular TV series of the same name, I found in an old book store, which I immediately grabbed. Here was something of my childhood, and something very special. The book did not disappoint. It is filled with stunning images, photographs, illustrations, diagrams and so on. And the text is fun, enlightening, clear, visionary, and precise. Not surprising, since it is written by an atronomer at heart. It is also advisable to search around and buy the illustrated edition-the illustrations add much to the text.<br /><br />Carl places the earth on the shores of the cosmic ocean-the title of the first chapter. He traces religious, artistic and scientific investigations into the 'cosmos' throughout the millenia, and the amount of useful historical information he brings up is quite extraordinary. He draws together the thoughts of ancient cultures like the Greeks, Babylonians, Stone Age man, Renaissance thinkers, poets, artists, and famous scientists, and ties these in with many modern discoveries concerning the nature of the universe. One can see his strong leanings on the likelihood of extraterrestial life and the SETI project between the lines, as well as his views on religion and its place in the human psyche. One particularly interesting peice describes the downfall of the old greek science and the destruction of the library at Alexandria, and how these tie in with his views on history, science and religion in general.<br /><br />Carl Sagan is a very clear and thoughtful writer. It is obvious that his knowledge of human nature and science is vast and humane. He worries much about the mususe of science, and the future of man. This book is a must for lovers of general science, human nature and destiny. As such it is a timeless classic. I'll close with the books closing words:<br /><br />\\"For we are the local embodiment of a Cosmos grown to self awareness. We have begun to contemplate our origins:starstuff pondering the stars; organised assemblages of ten billion billion billion atoms considering the evolution of atoms; tracing their long journey by which, here at least, consciousness arose. Our loyalties are to the species and the planet. We speak for earth. Our obligation to survive is owed not just to ourselves but also to that Cosmos, ancient and vast, from which we sprung.\\"the future of man. This book is a must for lovers of general science, human nature and destiny. As such it is a timeless classic. I'll close with the books closing words:    \\"For we are the local embodiment of a Cosmos grown to self awareness. We have begun to contemplate our origins:starstuff pondering the stars; organised assemblages of ten billion billion billion atoms considering the evolution of atoms; tracing their long journey by which, here at least, consciousness arose. Our loyalties are to the species and the planet. We speak for earth. Our obligation to survive is owed not just to ourselves but also to that Cosmos, ancient and vast, from which we sprung.\\"	2001-01-07
US	50867590	RKH1EBLJP2LHZ	0732257905	817157728	Shark: The Shadow Below	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Shark myths, true stories, statistics-exhaustive overview.	This an excellent overview of everything you wanted to know about shark attacks, statistics and the like. Great true stories are told, ranging from numerous amazing survival stories, to general patterns of attacks (and how to avoid one), historical and mythical stories, scientific facts, (eg fossils sets of teeth have been found which indicate extinct species of predators to 100 feet or more!), and analyses of attitudes to sharks over the years.<br /><br />Some of the stories described are simply amazing, and frightening. From people stalked by sharks for days whilst lost at sea, and survived to tell, to whole ships going down while sharks picked out their buddies one by one, to attacks in canals remote from the coast, to serial-type attacks and shark rogues, to sharks attacking rescuers, to picking out people in the middle rather than the edges of a crowd of swimmers, to people dragging the shark onto the shore whilst it held on and was then beaten to death, to lucky escapes, and so on. There are some tragic stories, but also some very inspiring survivals stories of people who fought off monsters, to people who survived for days swimming lost in the open ocean and coming onto dry reefs in the middle of nowhere. Not many people know that a former prime minister of Australia is believed by some to have been taken by a shark whilst in office, having disappeared without trace off the Australian coast, nor do many know of attacks on small boats, whilst people were in them. It's all pretty frightening, but the author puts it into perspective, there are many other creatures which are more dangerous, it is only the general unknown and our vulnerability in the sea which gives us our fears.<br /><br />There are patterns to attacks which the book goes into in some detail, by various researchers. In many cases attacks are by mistake, such as wetsuits resembling seals and so on. Colour of attire on those attacked seems to also play a part (bright orange on life jackets is not good). 35% of attacks are fatal. 62% occur in five feet of less of water. 63% of sharks were not seen by victims before attack. Only one in seven is the shark persistent after the initial attack. Divers fatality is smaller because they can see their attacker better, but divers form a high proportion of victims. No pattern is shown on skin colour, except that sharks are attracted to contrasts (eg suntanning). Great Whites have a higher fatality rate. Average length of shark attacking was 2.1m. 94% were made by single sharks. In most cases victims had their backs to the sea. In many cases they were left alone in the water after several people went to shore, such as in catching a wave. etc etc. There is much other useful information in the book, including how to avoid becoming a statistic.<br /><br />The book is an excellent overview of statistics and stories relating to attacks, and sharks in general. Recommended for aspiring sea-goers, and amatuer marine biologists at heart, as well as for the story teller on those dark cold nights at sea-in the safety of a sturdy ocean-going vessel one hopes.<br /><br />The following increases the chance of being attacked:<br />-near a seal colony.<br />-near a rivermouth, especially after heavy rain when the water is murky and sharks come to scavenge<br />-wearing bright coloured wetsuit or clothing<br />-at dawn or dusk<br />-after others have swum in, or caught a wave isolating you<br />-by yourself<br />-in a harbour, inlet or bay, where sharks come to breed<br />-near significant ocean dumping of rubbish or waste<br />-in non-netted beaches<br />-whilst injured or bleeding<br />-where there arent any dolphins (generally dolphins are a good sign, as sharks and dolphins generally stay away from each other)<br />-in a known great white area (eg South Australia, South Africa)are fatal. 62% occur in five feet of less of water. 63% of sharks were not seen by victims before attack. Only one in seven is the shark persistent after the initial attack. Divers fatality is smaller because they can see their attacker better, but divers form a high proportion of victims. No pattern is shown on skin colour, except that sharks are attracted to contrasts (eg suntanning). Great Whites have a higher fatality rate. Average length of shark attacking was 2.1m. 94% were made by single sharks. In most cases victims had their backs to the sea. In many cases they were left alone in the water after several people went to shore, such as in catching a wave. etc etc. There is much other useful information in the book, including how to avoid becoming a statistic.  The book is an excellent overview of statistics and stories relating to attacks, and sharks in general. Recommended for aspiring sea-goers, and amatuer marine biologists at heart, as well as for the story teller on those dark cold nights at sea-in the safety of a sturdy ocean-going vessel one hopes.  The following increases the chance of being attacked: -near a seal colony. -near a rivermouth, especially after heavy rain when the water is murky and sharks come to scavenge -wearing bright coloured wetsuit or clothing -at dawn or dusk -after others have swum in, or caught a wave isolating you -by yourself -in a harbour, inlet or bay, where sharks come to breed -near significant ocean dumping of rubbish or waste -in non-netted beaches -whilst injured or bleeding -where there arent any dolphins (generally dolphins are a good sign, as sharks and dolphins generally stay away from each other) -in a known great white area (eg South Australia, South Africa)	2001-01-07
US	50867590	RG1KAP36LB494	0895866374	310040640	History Of Surfing	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cool for waxheads and non-surfers alike	Surfing is of course a great pastime, an escapist form of recreation, an artistic expression of the soul, a highly challenging sport for young and old, and... a culture. This book suits both surfers, historians and beachgoers alike.<br />The history of the sport is curious. The polynesians engaged in it, as described by Captain Cook in 1777. &quot;I could not help concluding that this man felt the most supreme pleasure while he was driven on so fast and so smoothly by the sea.&quot; Nat Young the author and former world surfing champion, traces its roots to the modern age of professionalism, commercialism, hippie cultures, with notes on board development, big wave riding, surf safaris, and so on. The book is becoming a little dated in this respect, as there is no toe-ins yet, amongst other things. But there may in fact be a revised edition which has these things-look around.<br />For the non-surfer there is some great historical pictures and stories. For the thinking surfer there is all this and some great waves. The only drawback for me, is that Nat Young is not a great writer, or narrator. The movie by the same name bears this out. Still, he is original if nothing else, and conveys the nature of surfing very well.	2001-01-07
US	50867590	R3RS537YFEYG15	0609605135	511292081	Alas, Poor Darwin: Arguments Against Evolutionary Psychology	Books	2	16	21	N	N	&quot;...if you had already decided against me&quot;	This book is mixed. It has some useful critique, and also highlights the need for constructive criticism against ANY scientific idea or 'revolution' (eg Kuhn and others), but it also has some rather reactionary, predictable and unenlightening counterpoints. Tension, doubt, and critique is good, knee-jerk reactionary resistance and selective patronising of humanly mistakes is unhelpful to all concerned.<br />I was impressed with parts of this book. The argument against a narrow-minded understanding of change (subsitute 'species-change' or 'evolution') is perennial, and has not been resolved either in biology or physics. Is evolution gradualist, or punctuated, and does it make a difference anyway? Is one simply a variation of the other?. Is time granular or a continuum?. Is time multidimensional?. If so, and by corrollary, are species multi-dimensional and/or can they inherit multi-dimensional and/or 'splitting' mechanisms to deal with different and/or stressful environments? These ideas and their associated problems are not just confined to evolutionary biology, but also physics, history, and mathematics, amongst other disciplines. One highlight for me in the book therefore, was the bringing to mind these sorts of problems and their relevance to evolutionary analysis of mind. Ohter examples include: can some aspects of mind be selected by 'default', and emerge as advantageous in a differnt enviroment?. Are various aspects of culture and mind merely side effects of other selected mental mechanisms, or do they represent specific advantageous predispositions for specific environments. In the way that the book highlights possible alternative notions regarding evoltionary theory and change, and their relevance to an evolutionary analysis of mind, I was impressed. In the way that the book seemed in some instances to revert to outmoded notions that we are instrinsically and by definition separate to the animal kingdom, I found uninspiring. It is plainly obvious that this paradigm has been dying a long and strangling death in the last several hundered years at least. The question is asked, does our behaviour, and by association, our 'minds', have anything to do with our evolutionary past. And if so, what kind of reasons are there that people resist this idea, or the associated paradigm shift which seeks to pursue this.<br />The disappointment in this book for me is this, its' reactionary attempt to diminish analysis of the mind as something which is partly, largely, or entirely something which can be explained by evolutionary processes. It counterpoints selfish gene theory (personally poking Richard Dawkins-what do personal remarks possibly achieve?), genes and their influence in general (something that will be further studied with continuing genomic investigations of various organisms), 'sociobiology', 'instinct' (it's ok if applied to animals) and other notions. It cites instances or &quot;religious-like&quot; mentalities in the new paradigm (what if &quot;religion&quot; itself, in its various manifestations, has evolved, and is the way we are programmed to behave?). &quot;Arguments against Evolutionary psychology&quot;. Sad. They may argue against specific ideas applied to specific instances, and the way human nature understands and or selectively exploits this, but not a paradigm shift which has obvious scientific basis. Such a move is destined to fail, and rightly so. The progress of scientific understanding is a re-analsysis of 'who we are' in the light of evolutionary theory-physically AND mentally. Sure, with any paradigm shift there are going to be mistakes, fanatics, free-riders, vested interests, and so on, but this is true of ANY change-scientific or otherwise-it does not follow that the paradigm is at fault because of this. The book would be better off in confining itself to constructive criticism and caution, and not knee-jerk partronising remarks regarding those all too humanly mistakes and derivations.<br />The tensionswhich remain are not whether or not this mind of ours has evolved, but to what level various forms of behaviour have direct phenotype and/or genotpye influence, and how this relates to the 'self' and the brains various learning, monitoring, processing and constructive modules. To leave wider evolutionary theory out of this is both childish and outmoded. I laud the books focus on caution and doubt, not its general censoring and reactionary approach to new ideas.<br />The title of my review derives from Pascal -&quot;you would not search for me, if you had not already found me&quot;. This is true of the notion that our behaviour is influenced by evolutionary processes, (something science has already discovered), and indeed such is the progress of all science within the human condition. By corollary is the opposite &quot;you would not contend with me if you had not already decided against me&quot;. The book seems to have 'already decided', before the 'human jury'-the search for truth and enlightenment, or understanding if you prefer-is out.ons which remain are not whether or not this mind of ours has evolved, but to what level various forms of behaviour have direct phenotype and/or genotpye influence, and how this relates to the 'self' and the brains various learning, monitoring, processing and constructive modules. To leave wider evolutionary theory out of this is both childish and outmoded. I laud the books focus on caution and doubt, not its general censoring and reactionary approach to new ideas.<br />The title of my review derives from Pascal -&quot;you would not search for me, if you had not already found me&quot;. This is true of the notion that our behaviour is influenced by evolutionary processes, (something science has already discovered), and indeed such is the progress of all science within the human condition. By corollary is the opposite &quot;you would not contend with me if you had not already decided against me&quot;. The book seems to have 'already decided', before the 'human jury'-the search for truth and enlightenment, or understanding if you prefer-is out.	2000-12-14
US	50867590	R2QXHY4KP95QGC	0393005836	915633224	Early Greek Science: Thales to Aristotle (Ancient Culture and Society)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Great and important stuff!	I really enjoyed this book. The Greeks undoubtedly had a very interesting culture, and an analysis of their early scientists is an important an interesting read. Mr Lloyd has compiled a good introductory overview, outlining the major players, the development of various ideas, and some suggestions why their &quot;science&quot; got started in the first place. This is not an easy question to answer. I liked his idea that critical analysis of ideas about the natural world may have been a corrollary of a general environment of critical examination of political structure and ideas in difficult times. In other words, because ideas in general were subjected to critical analysis, critical examination of the natural world logically followed, more as an afterthought than a deliberate injunction. It is an interesting theory.<br />The book includes discussions of various differences and similarities between modern and ancient science. Ancient thinkers seemed less concerned with the practical potential of their ideas. The pursuit of knowledge for knowledge sake, with a few notable exceptions, was a worthy enough endeavour in itself. They saw the natural world as something more to be studied than &quot;tamed&quot;. &quot;Science&quot; was a more vaguely defined discipline; few people practised it much less got paid for it. The book discusses the various streams and ideas which grew about, with, and around it, such as medicine, philosophy, astronomy, mathematics, and biology. The Pythagorians, Platonists, Milesians, Aristotle, Thales, and Anaximander are all names which come to the fore, but unfortunately, their contribution withers away far too quickly in the history of the world. Some interesting points I noted were early suggestions that man had  sprung from other organisms, (namely fish), the problem of change, theories concerning the nature of matter-you know-elements, atoms and so on.<br />A look into the thinking of the early Greeks is in part a mirror into the heart and nature of our society. My only complaint with the book is that we have so little remaining information about these thinkers and their times.<br />Please, archaeologists and the like, find much more about the Greeks in some colossal discovery of thousands of well-preserved, buried manuscripts in a buried ancient city somewhere about Greece, so we can know more about the ancient world.ature of our society. My only complaint with the book is that we have so little remaining information about these thinkers and their times. <br />Please, archaeologists and the like, find much more about the Greeks in some colossal discovery of thousands of well-preserved, buried manuscripts in a buried ancient city somewhere about Greece, so we can know more about the ancient world.	2000-10-30
US	50867590	R154YATG2NZE3I	0517799693	960873812	The Man in the Ice: The Discovery of a 5,000-Year-Old Body Reveals the Secrets of the Stone Age	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Humorous, fun, interesting read.	Konrad Spindler should know what he is talking about. After all, he was in charge of the high-profile, no expense spared, scientific investigation of the fantastically fortuituous find of \\"the Iceman,\\" found beneath a receeding glacier in the Austrian Alps in 1991.<br /><br />Imagine you are Konrad Spindler(the author). An accomplished archaeologist, you are settling down to normal duties on an otherwise uneventful morning in a modest academic institution, you receive a call to view an \\"unusual corpse\\" found recently in the mountains, and then, after viewing a smorgasboard of 4,000 year old implements on a table in near pristine (for archaeologists) condition, and a full, well-preserved body of a long-dead ancient European, and saying coyley, in front of a few sceptical onlookers, \\"at least 4,000 years old, maybe older.\\" The media, quite rightly, hit the roof with excitement, as did the university administration, the police, journalists from all over the world, tourists and the like. And, just as amazing as any of the events that transpired, necessary equipment for your department was delivered promptly, security of site and items was attained promptly and without argument, funding for research was granted immediately, and well trained archaeologists, scientists and faithful historians embarked on a well-funded, well-orchestrated, (if not well prepared) investigation into the \\"man in the ice,\\" and his secrets. The stuff science is made of.<br /><br />This is that story, faithully told by that archeologist, Konrad Spindler. It is excitingly and humurously written, and thoughtfully analyzed. The iceman had (has!) many secrets to tell, there was indeed many items and implemements that were recovered on his person, or nearby, from a time in European history (pre-Roman, pre-Greek, pre just about everybody), in which we had very little information at all. One item for example, a copper axe, is the only item of its kind from this time which survives to this day. And there are many other implements he was carrying, perhaps undertaking a long journey over the mountains? -- (which you will have to read for yourself).<br /><br />A fascinating and insightful story of modern science, adventure and archaeology at its best. Described as arguably the archaeological find of the century, a must read for the interested layperson and scientist alike.implements he was carrying, perhaps undertaking a long journey over the mountains? -- (which you will have to read for yourself).    A fascinating and insightful story of modern science, adventure and archaeology at its best. Described as arguably the archaeological find of the century, a must read for the interested layperson and scientist alike.	2000-10-11
US	50867590	RCL8HGFUREWDK	014043268X	788233504	The Voyage of the Beagle: Charles Darwin's Journal of Researches (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A must for science and history lovers!	This is an under-rated read. It is the story of Charles Darwins 5 year journey on the Royal Navy ship, HMS Beagle. If ever there was a fateful voyage, this is it. But of course in this case, it is a 'fate' of hope, joy and true discovery.<br />The writer, in case you don't know him, is an enthusiastic and slightly rebellious young British naturalist, Charles Darwin. Here he reveals a style of cool-headed prose, sombre reflection, humour, and scientific enthusiasm. Amongst other things he describes his traverses in the Andes mountains, his jaunting about the Galopagas Islands, and his reflections of the bristling new British colony of Sydney. He collects specimens at places as diverse as the open sea, the remote Australian coast, and various islands of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. One particularly interesting piece describes his experience of a major earthquake on the Chilian coast, with details of totally destroyed coastal townships, and a major tidal wave. Of course he doesn't miss the correlation of the earthquake and a rather significant mountain chain running down the length of the Chilian coastline.<br />A good insight into the thoughts and style of the man, 19th century scientific prose, as well as the world itself in that interesting period of human history-the early to mid 19th century. This edition incidentally is also the unabridged one, which serves the reader better than some others.	2000-10-01
US	50867590	R2II8446ANTDV1	1563318296	664584609	Atlas of the Prehistoric World	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Cut well above the average	This is an excellent buy for natural science enthusiasts. It has been  arranged in splended fashion, with large scale maps, great illustrations,  and more and less detailed sections of text-depending on the tastes of the  reader, in different sections of the book. It contains beautifully coloured  palaeogeographic maps of the contintents (eg if you are one of those people  who likes to know where Alaska was on the earth 250 million years ago), and  a fairly detailed notes and reference section at the back, where historical  outlines, scientific debates, stories, glossary, biological, and other  technical information is discussed. There is descriptions throughout of  famous fossils, fossil sites, major historic finds, scientific debates, the  origin of life, the Burgess Shale, the ediacra fauna, the Cambrian  explosion, dinosaurs, mammals and their origins, birds and their evolution,  the K-T and other mass extinction events,the rise of the hominids, the ice  ages, and so on.  <br />The authors have done a really 1st class job in  packing in so much information, arranged in a way that can be understood  and perused according to the tastes of the reader. Not to mention the  fantastic illustrations/and or real photographs-from in situ-stegosaur  fossil finds, to early Cambrian Hallucegenia, to T rex skeletons, to giant  kangaroos, to mammoths being dug out of the Russian steppes, to Mongolian  dinosaur eggs, to Hominid illustrations on the African savannah. <br />A  fantastic book, one well above the average 'atlas'-type compilation, for  both scientists and the general reader.	2000-08-31
US	50867590	R3E54IKYOQS6PW	0387987010	293584016	Rare Earth: Why Complex Life is Uncommon in the Universe	Books	3	14	25	N	N	Good overview of astrobiology, but flawed thesis	Don't get me wrong, as a scientist I enjoyed this book. It has numerous  up-to-date overviews of various ideas concerning the evolution of life on  earth, planetary and solar system evolution, star formation, mass  extinction events, evolutionary change etc etc, but I am of the view that  the basic thrust of this book-that these many things which have played a  role in the development of life on earth are by and large necassary for  complex life to form-that this idea is fundamentally flawed. Here are my  reasons.<br />I won't go into the exact details of what the book discusses, as  there are some other very good reviews which do this admirably. But the  thesis is flawed. Just because life on earth has developed in a metal-rich  solar system, with  a Jupiter-like planet deflecting cometary and meteoric  debris, with the &quot;right&quot; temperature (supposedly), the right  amount of water, the &quot;proper&quot; (supposedly) distance from the sun  etc etc, doesn't mean that all these and other things are necassary for  complex life to form. In fact, there are indications that conditions on  earth in some ways are not conducive for complex life to form. The earths  crust is suprisingly rich in oxygen, oxygen is generally toxic to life. The  earth is very stable, (axis, distance from sun, etc etc) which may mean  that evolutionary change is considerably slower than on other planets. On  another planet, with a more diverse planetary environment, and periodic  instabilities, complex life might actually evolve considerably quicker.  Life on earth appears to go through long periods of relative stability-this  might be peculiar to life on earth and a relatively stable planet, and not  the best environment for the evoltution of complex life. The earth is  relatively poor in some elements which are apparently very important in  complex life forms, such as phosphorous, and others. There are many  peculiarities about the earth which are not necassarily necassay for life,  and may even hinder it. The book does not spend much time in discussing  thses ideas.<br />But apart form these arguments, there is a blatant  underlying flaw, that is, the idea that because life as we observe it has  indeed been profoundly influenced by a number of different factors we can  observe, that this therefore means that these processes are necasary for  all/most complex life forms to evolve. How do we even know, for example,  that water is necassary for life, let alone continental drift, large  gaseous planets, the moon and so on. Silicon has long been conjectured to  be able to provide a basis for the complex chemistry necassary for complex  life, and silicon reacts differently to carbon with water and various other  liquids. The many factors the book discusses are how life as we know it has  formed, yes, but this does in no way mean that life can't form in other  ways. If there is anything about life that seems obvious, is that is it  adaptable, and suprisingly so. Life finds a way. The earth is not a  blueprint, it is just one example of its course. Because it took 4 billion  years on earth for complex life to get going, may indicate that the earth  is not very good at getting life started, rather than complex life being  improbable in the first place.<br />I'm of the view that the obvious variety  of conditions present in the universe may well create numerous conditions  where life can flourish. True, this life might possibly be very different  form what we imagine, blobs of 'intelligent jelly', rather than 'little  green men'(primates). It is only simplemindedness which assumes that life  on earthly conditions is the only way.d may even hinder it. The book does not spend much time in discussing  thses ideas.  <br />But apart form these arguments, there is a blatant  underlying flaw, that is, the idea that because life as we observe it has  indeed been profoundly influenced by a number of different factors we can  observe, that this therefore means that these processes are necasary for  all/most complex life forms to evolve. How do we even know, for example,  that water is necassary for life, let alone continental drift, large  gaseous planets, the moon and so on. Silicon has long been conjectured to  be able to provide a basis for the complex chemistry necassary for complex  life, and silicon reacts differently to carbon with water and various other  liquids. The many factors the book discusses are how life as we know it has  formed, yes, but this does in no way mean that life can't form in other  ways. If there is anything about life that seems obvious, is that is it  adaptable, and suprisingly so. Life finds a way. The earth is not a  blueprint, it is just one example of its course. Because it took 4 billion  years on earth for complex life to get going, may indicate that the earth  is not very good at getting life started, rather than complex life being  improbable in the first place. <br />I'm of the view that the obvious variety  of conditions present in the universe may well create numerous conditions  where life can flourish. True, this life might possibly be very different  form what we imagine, blobs of 'intelligent jelly', rather than 'little  green men'(primates). It is only simplemindedness which assumes that life  on earthly conditions is the only way.	2000-08-31
US	50867590	RLWYZ1Q1Q7Q3Z	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The wake of his dreams	What a wonderful book this is, capturing the essence of the ambition, lust,  love and gay abandonment, not only of the 1920s, but of the human spirit itself. Widely regarded as a classic of modern literature, Fitzgerald  manages to capture something very American, very modern, very sublime and truly timeless in this novel; from the relatively simple narrative of  romantic yearnings, to the greedy ambitions, the lost loves, the complex  enchantments, and the underlying despair; this is a journey of life.<br /><br />This book for me is just too  much. Take the exchange between Nick and Gatsby about the 'past', and  following 'lost dreams';- \\"You can't repeat the past\\" (Nick).  \\"Can't repeat the past? Why of course you can\\" (Gastby). Can you?  I still don't know. How about the early quote of \\"the foul dust that  floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my interest  in the shortwinded elations and abortive sorrows of men\\". A dark  promise of things to come. And what about the exhileration and excitement  of the \\"returning trains of my youth\\", near the end, where Nick  decides to leave the 'big smoke' in New York, permanently tainted in his  mind, for the wide plains, the homely townships, and to escape from the  shallow, superficial and 'messy' lives of the Big Apple pretenders.<br /><br />I  won't spoil you with intricate details of the story, if you haven't read it and you want to understand modern literature and the modern western world, you have to read it. It is as simple as that.<br /><br />This book is a unique expose of the human spirit, the western dream, the love and despair of life; quintessentially 20th century and quintessentially beautiful.<br /><br />I wish I was seventeen and could read it again for the first time.	2000-08-01
US	50867590	R3TIXKYTC1GW36	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Exhilerating adventure story, for lovers of animals.	I first read The Call of the Wild when I was 11, and it had a profound effect on me. I loved the story, the adventure, the romance of the wilderness, and the themes of hope and the struggle for survival in the  wilds of Alaska.<br />The book is mainly written for the young, but adults  will find something refreshing, true to life, and escapist in the book.<br />Set in the goldrush days of the late 1800s to early 1900s, it is the  story of a stolen dog (Bucks') experiences in the Alaskan wilderness, and  his struggle for survival and for dominance amongst the huskies and  half-breeds of the sled dogs in the extremes of the northern wilderness.  The story is harrowing, but ultimately delightful, encouraging young  readers to imagine, to feel, and to be inspired to search for adventure and  meaning.<br />Another book by Jack London is White Fang, which is very  similar, so those who like this book might consider reading this  also.<br />Recommended for those who like dogs and dog adventure stories, the  Alaskan wilderness, the goldrush days, and those with a spirit of  adventure-especially the young, but also the young in spirit.	2000-08-01
US	50867590	R2B3OZ2IKPZZQT	1862044589	674782307	The Dark Side of God: A Quest for the Lost Heart of Christianity	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Humanity's Self Discovery	Lockhart follows up his first book, Jesus the Heretic, with another masterful display. What a refreshing thing it is to see modern scholars beginning to shed light on the origin, nature and development of Christianity from a responible, scientific, and balanced viewpoint.<br />Christianity, and religion itself, is a complex topic. Any proper analysis of Christianity must attempt to explain the good, the bad and the ugly of its history. It must attempt to explain why groups of sectarians in a small, oppressed nation had such a profound effect on subsequent western history. It must attempt to explain the why, when and how variation and departures occurred in its development, and why there is such a spectrum of behaviour in its expression. Lockharts' analysis is a good overview of modern argument and discoveries concerning these matters, far better and more insightful than most. He intergrates a range of ideas on the subject, from ancient &quot;heretics&quot;, to modern interpretations of the Dead Sea Scrolls.<br />Don't expect an biased appraisal of Christianity, Lockhart traces many of the evils that the &quot;herd&quot; simply refuses to see, and why.<br />The Dark Side of God is very much the journey of western society itself, and very much a reflection of what is within all of us. His book is an attempt to find the lost and distorted virtues that exist in the &quot;original heart&quot; of Christian experience. I'm not sure if he achieves what he sets out to find, but he does awaken the heart and mind to what we are all capable of achieving.<br />For the courageous and the hopeful.	2000-07-10
US	50867590	RU52DO7XS1KW7	0563369019	238846074	The Wooden Horse	Books	5	14	17	N	N	One of the best prison breakout novels of all time	Don't be put off by the recent &quot;out of print&quot; status, this book is a great true story of a prison breakout in WW2. You can also easily pick it up through Amazons second hand bookstores for a relatively cheap  price.<br />Written by the escapee himself, it retains all its charm and  spirit since it first received rave reviews in the late 1940s to early  1950s.<br />The breakout came from a novel, yet brilliant idea inspired by the  Legend of the Trojan Horse- ie to use a gym vaulting horse as cover to hide  an inmate who dug a tunnel to the nearest concentration camp fence. It  succeeded, but I won't ruin the story with all the details, you will have  to read it yourself! Rest assured the book is well written, and as it is  told by one of the escapees himself it has a certain charm, readability and  authenticity about it.<br />Getting out was just the first part, the escapees  still had to travel across most of Germany to reach home, right amidst the  heartlessness and desparation of WW2. I found the description of the lives  of everyday German people within a major war as soulful, revealing and  harrowing as the concentration camp itself.<br />A remarkable story, a great  and uplifting novel, sure to inspire for many years to come. No mundane  &quot;political correctness&quot; here, truthfully told and recorded with  all the desperation, fear, and courageous spirit of many involved in the  war-on both sides.<br />There was a film also made in the 1960s I think,  which was almost as good as the book, but not quite. Of similar genre to  The Wooden Horse is &quot;the Great Escape&quot;, also made into a film,  but the Wooden Horse is more realisitic and better done overall in my  opinion.<br />Uplifts the spirit.	2000-07-08
US	50867590	R3D1EADL0ZVRV5	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Where I came from (updated version).	I found this book concerning scientific research on the evolution of sex pretty darn good, but rather complicated. Dont expect light holiday reading, but do expect a congenial informative style, and a smoragasboard  of ideas regarding the evolution of a very complex part of biological  behaviour, with particular reference to one homo sapien sapien.<br />Matt  Ridley provides a good overview of scientific debate and research regarding  the evolution of sex in the myriad species of earth (blue planet, third  rock form sun). He melds the tension between inborn/innate characteritics  and learning/culture amicably. This 'tension' is a perennial one, being  more about definitions and models than absolutes, but one in which a better  understanding and complementary framework is gradually gaining consensus.  Any scientist worth his salt will realise that the tension between these  two complimentary parts of our existance will be continued to be modified,  updated, redefined and reviewed with the further gathering of knowledge.  There are no absolutes when it comes to such things. Matt Ridley manages to  hold and communicate this understanding pretty admirably.<br />Having read  and admired some of his works, I do detect a subtle bias in his discourses,  but it is not a bias which is held without evidence, nor one in which the  tension between doubt and certainty is absent. He backs up his assertions  with empirical evidence, he bases models of the human condition on such  evidence, and he allows room for modification and review where necessary.  Just the way science should be. He does have his leanings, but he makes it  clear where these are, holding these with sobriety.<br />There are many  theories of sex outlined in this book. I won't spoil the fun by detailing  them. Be prepared for the Red Queen, Cain, sex, asex, changing sex, no sex,  lots of sex, fungi sex, bacteria sex, sea horse females with a kind of  penis, selfish genes and sex, organisms which appear to be all female, male  redundancy, female choice, male choice, female redundancy, marriage,  hermaphrodites, harems, infidelity, monogomous albaltrosses,promiscuous  bonobos, cheating cuckoos, prancing peacocks, the list goes on and the  discussion is fairly exhaustive.<br />As I said, don't expect &quot;Where I  came from&quot; part 2. Rather: &quot;Where I came from, a general guide  for the species of earth, with particular reference to homo sapien  sapien&quot; (adult informative version).<br />Richly decorated.l female, male  redundancy, female choice, male choice, female redundancy, marriage,  hermaphrodites, harems, infidelity, monogomous albaltrosses,promiscuous  bonobos, cheating cuckoos, prancing peacocks, the list goes on and the  discussion is fairly exhaustive. <br />As I said, don't expect &quot;Where I  came from&quot; part 2. Rather: &quot;Where I came from, a general guide  for the species of earth, with particular reference to homo sapien  sapien&quot; (adult informative version). <br />Richly decorated.	2000-06-24
US	50867590	R1UC1D1Y27RA0R	0385052219	317933585	Man and His Symbols	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Under-rated	The works of Jung have been, in my opinion, under-rated. The 'discovery' of the 'unconscious' in the 1900s has been said by some to be discredited. Nothing could be further from the truth. Rather, certain  interpretations/'meanings'/aspects etc of the'unconscious ' have been quite  rightly discredited, much as occurs in any major discovery/field of  science. Much of what Sigmund Freud has said, to some, has been  discredited. But in my view, the works of Jung are far better and more  accurate, for example, than those of his more famous colleague (Freud), and  the progress of science seems to be bearing this out. Freud placed far too  much emphasis on the sexual side of our natures, in which findings in  psychology and other fields has proved time and again. However, just  because some have misintepreted various aspects of the 'unconscious'  doesn't of course mean that the theory of the 'unconscious', however you  want to define it, is discredited.<br />Jung has contributed much to our  understanding of ourselves and our inherited 'instincts', if you prefer, in  the 20th century. His discourses are providing some input, for example, to  the growing field of evolutionary pychology; that is, much of our behaviour  is inherited from evolutionary processes. This is also the very same view,  as I understand it, of Jung.<br />The theory of the unconscious is by no  means dead, and this book explains in a clear and meaningful way many of  Jungs and others findings in this fascinating field. Much that goes on in  religion and myth and superstition, for example, is not well understood by  science; much of this book seeks to explain it. In my opinion , for what it  is worth, there is much to be learned here.<br />Jungs contributions will  continue to provide input to various fields of human study for years to  come. This book proivides a very good overview of many of his ideas, and  was one in which he intended to write for the general public.<br />Recommended for those who wish to obtain a deeper understanding of their  natures, and the nature of that of mankind in general.who wish to obtain a deeper understanding of their  natures, and the nature of that of mankind in general.	2000-06-08
US	50867590	R2RQRQB2YHGBR9	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	2	14	30	N	N	Limited perspective	I am going to go against the grain with this one. There are many other reviews of the exact details of the plot, so I'll just make a few comments as to why I think the book is limited in its overall social value, particularly in its assumptions about human nature. The book is set in a world of political totalitarianism that is so extreme as to become patently impossible.<br /><br />Whilst it may be true that the book serves as an educational warning against totalitarian thinking, and while yes it is well written and widely regarded as a classic and has numerous insights into the workings of political totalitariaism, I personally thought this book far too limited in its perspective of how human nature and society actually interact to justify its solid reputation.<br /><br />It is, in a nutshell, a very absorbing but deeply fatalistic analysis of political totalitarianism. The trouble is, is that this extremely fatalistic perspective is such a limited picture of how people actually think and operate, and how society actually functions, as to become self-defeating. For example: a large assumption pervades the book- human nature and society is largely fluid and 'infinitely malleable'. This so-called extreme malleability, of course can be co-opted by psychopaths/etc into various forms of totalitarianism. But this process, of course, is not inevitable, nor is it as pervasive in its most extreme versions as Mr Orwell seems to think.<br /><br />In a nutshell, the books assumes that human nature, and biological forces in general, do not play a large part in society and politics. Mr Orwell philosophy and activism during his life was very much of the political left, and his fatalistic analysis of totalitarianism in this book is itself, deeply biased towards the left.<br /><br />A curious irony in the book is that Mr Orwell creates a world that transcends the relationship between politics and human nature, in much the same way political ideology and totalitarian thinking does. It is a self-fulfilling philosophical stance, but not in accord, in my opinion, with reality. It serves little purpose, for example, in analysing totalitarianism by committing, in turn, the same mistake totalitarians make-exaggeration and over-simplification.<br /><br />The books general negativity is rooted in the same political ideologies it is trying to expose and warn against. It fails to appreciate the nature or influence of underlying biological forces which shape, and are co-opted by political forces. For example, the moralisitic fallacy is wrong because what \\"ought\\", to be is not necasarilly what \\"is\\", which is a strong subtext in the views of both the resistance ('brotherhood') and power brokers in this book.<br /><br />To gain a different perpsective, to that generally assumed by Mr Orwell, and to show why 1984 could only ever be a passing socio-political fad, I would recommend The Blank Slate by Steven Pinker. Societies do undergo revolutionary cultural transitions, and yes, these often become co-opted by psychopaths and dictators as a social system (often under the notion of 'the Blank Slate', together with the 'moralistic fallacy'), but these social systems inevitably fail and subside-primarily because of the grounding of human nature.It is a self-fulfilling philosophical stance, but not in accord, in my opinion, with reality. It serves little purpose, for example, in analysing totalitarianism by committing, in turn, the same mistake totalitarians make-exaggeration and over-simplification.<br /><br />The books general negativity is rooted in the same political ideologies it is trying to expose and warn against. It fails to appreciate the nature or influence of underlying biological forces which shape, and are co-opted by political forces. For example, the moralisitic fallacy is wrong because what \\"ought\\", to be is not necasarilly what \\"is\\", which is a strong subtext in the views of both the resistance ('brotherhood') and power brokers in this book.<br /><br />To gain a different perpsective, to that generally assumed by Mr Orwell, and to show why 1984 could only ever be a passing socio-political fad, I would recommend The Blank Slate by Steven Pinker. Societies do undergo revolutionary cultural transitions, and yes, these often become co-opted by psychopaths and dictators as a social system (often under the notion of 'the Blank Slate', together with the 'moralistic fallacy'), but these social systems inevitably fail and subside-primarily because of the grounding of human nature.	2000-05-27
US	50867590	R2YSQUR5VTZWZO	0207156816	937964944	Atlas of Australian Surfing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thunder Downunder	Great colour pictures, picture perfect pointbreaks, radical reefs, barreling beachbreaks, and more. An exhaustive review of surfspots in Oz, from the crowded pointbreaks of Surfers Paradise, to the empty soul surfing  in the outback, this is a good buy for surfers, overseas or Aussie,  thinking of a surf holiday in Oz. Tips on swell direction, tides, time of  year to surf etc etc its all there, written by former world champion Mark  Warren, and compiled by surfers from around the country. And one more  thing, a few secret spots have been left out, which you can find on your  own!	2000-05-16
US	50867590	R3LB33LUVXZMRW	0140264450	445923384	The Origins of Virtue: Human Instincts and the Evolution of Cooperation	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The nature of 'good' and 'evil'-partly explained	For those who want to understand and explore what science is discovering regarding what makes people sometimes nice to each other, and sometimes not, this book is for you. You'll need a bit of courage, this book is  pretty heavy going, but well worth the effort.  I think parts of Ridleys  analysis are close to genius, others a bit watery, especially towards the  end. Nevertheless a good expose of (more or less) current thinking on game  theory, motivation, evolutionary theory, and what we describe as 'virtue'.  Remarkable insights.	2000-05-12
US	50867590	R2D5JU9YGPISWS	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Very good, but time will judge the books true value.	The book discusses much of the usual very good sociobiology of Mr Wilson, intergrated with extensive philosophical excursions; the central theme being harmony, or consilience of knowledge, and the value this brings. It  is not easy going, so one would have to be prepared for this kind of thing  to get through it, and in that sense the book is primarily for those who  are, intellectually speaking, the co-ordinators, the administrators, those  who attempt to harmonise thought and people, rather than 'divide and  conquer'. If you feel you are of this type, this book is for you.<br />Someone else has described this book as &quot;Wilsons Impossible  Dream&quot;, and I guess I probably agree. His fundamental thesis is the  consilience of knowledge, that is, societys institutional and traditional  structures are predisposed to encouraging divergance of thought, with  little to encourage convergance, or consilience. I think it may be possible  for a paradigm shift to alleviate some of the faults fruitful divergance  brings, but it is not going to be easy to bring this about. He does have a  strong point in arguing that for too long independent disciplines,  especially between the humanities and natural sciences, have been just  that, independent. He thinks one way to alleviate this is to use the  growing understanding evolutionary theory is bringing to the humanities as  a means of harmony-a good idea. What he basically confronts is the  limitations of human nature itself-still that isn't cause for being  tentative, it's just that it is going to be difficult to achieve. Maybe the  times are right, societies may be in such positions in history to do such  things. Consequently, historians may be rather interested in this book  also.<br />Mr Wilsons reputation in the international academic community is  very highly regarded. It may be that he is a true visionary, only time will  tell.	2000-05-11
US	50867590	RIQZLHF3OSSGE	0060194979	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species In 23 Chapters	Books	4	59	64	N	N	Another piece in the puzzle of life	This is an excellent overview of current scientific discovery and argument regarding that inheritently common, but innately variable blueprint of 23 pairs of chromosones we all share.<br />Our knowledge of our genes is progressing at a rapid rate, so much so, that by the time I finish writing  this sentence, our knowledge of the human genetic code has been updated. If  you wish to know what kinds of things are being discovered, this book is a  very good place to find it.<br />Matt Ridley devotes each chapter to one of  our chromosones-23 in all, and describes some useful dicoveries and  speculations regarding each. From such things as the ability to digest  lactose, blood groups, cancer suppressors, 'instinct',intelligence, ethics,  free will, allergies, aspects of language, ageing, sex, cloning, test tube  babies, Mad Cow disease etc, he describes in a clever and clear way the  discoveries being made in the field.<br />I would give the book 4 1/2  stars,(but there are no halves in these reviews), as no book is ever  perfect, but a point to remember is no understanding of our world, or our  genes themselves, is ever perfect either. But we can find pieces to the  puzzle, useful and uplifting, and that is what this book is about.<br />Ridleys style is clear and clever, my only quibble is that he displays  perhaps just a touch of arrogance, and a subtle air of bias. But give the  author his due, an author is entitled to his opinions and leanings, what is  important is that he generally makes it clear when he does so.<br />The book  is highly recommended for both those familiar with the jargon, and those  with enthusiastic minds who wish to learn about it.	2000-05-09
US	50867590	RF6WQ3VMSADWP	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	5	329	343	N	N	Sagan took the road less travelled......	One word: OUTSTANDING.<br />I read this book over two nights, couldn't put it down, and afterwards was eagerly searching for more of the same. Science at it's best-accurate, timely, well-argued, emotionally and mentally  invigorating, spiritually uplifting; and filled with boundless enthusiasm  and hope. Like the author, Carl Sagan himself.<br />This book describes the  'scientific journey'. Alternately curious, cautious, inquiring, uplifting,  compassionate, humane, warning, discovering and fulfilling. Topics include  UFOs, alien abductions, witches, religion-both good and bad, Roswell,  frauds, scientific genuises, skeptical thinking, wishful thinking,  deceptive thinking, balanced thinking, belief, superstition, astrology,  ESP, myth, and the like; and the role and place of science and scientific  inquiry in all of this. For those who think science &quot;destroys&quot;  spirituality-does not scientific inquiry with its' abundant curiosity and  courageous endeavour accurately describe a spiritual journey to find the  truth? Sagan contends, with great clarity and enthusiasm, that it assuredly  does. It's just that this scientific journey is not an easy one, neither  for the individual, nor humanity, by any means. But when has the attempt to  find &quot;truth&quot; and &quot;light&quot; in this complex world of ours,  ever been easy? Sagan argues that science and the scientific method is a  noble and enlightening endeavour, an unquenchable candle, lit by the human  yearning for truth, and able to steer humanity towards truth and goodwill  in a world of mists, shadowy truths, and darkness.<br />For those who wish to  open their minds to science and what it has to say about much that goes in  this beautiful, yet sometimes dark world of ours, this is the book for you.<br />This great book (Sagan's last) is a fitting testament to a great man of  science. Sagan, who passed away recently, was one of the great  communicators of science, and this book is considered by many to be his  best.<br />Reading it was something I'll always cherish.many to be his  best. <br />Reading it was something I'll always cherish.	2000-04-01
US	50867590	R2G2Q559XRRFXZ	0375702105	146450130	T. Rex and the Crater of Doom	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Entertaining analysis of the process of scientific discovery	The strong points in this book are these:<br />1) it is a thoroughly entertaining detailed account of the discovery of the causes for the mass extinction which occurred at the K-T boundary, and<br />2) it provides an  insightful anaylsis of the many pitfalls, lucky strikes, and false trails  which are characterstic of any process of true scientific discovery. As  such it reminds us of how careful and open-minded scientists need to be in  dealing with new insights and discoveries.<br />For those who are trained  scientists, the book is mainly written for the layperson, especially the  geological aspects, but that is fine, because as a geologist I am strongly  of the view that we need more geological education and understanding in the  general community. It is fine if science is written simplistically as long  as it is accurate. Walter Alvalrez, for the most part, with perhaps a few  exceptions, has managed to achieve this careful tension. The book is not an  overview of the various theories and developments concerning mass  extinction events, but rather a story of the search told by some who have  been deeply involved. Therefore the fact that it doesn't provide an  objective overview of the available theories, whilst true, is not really  relevant here; Walter Alvarez is telling a story of mostly his own  experiences, and those with whom he has worked. As long as this is  understood, the book is educational, entertaining, and a thoroughly  enjoyable read.<br />I would like to add for those with some knowledge of  geological science, that we have some very good exposures of the  Permian-Triassic boundary in Australia, which Mr Alvarez notes is not so  common in the northern hemisphere. This boundary is recognised as the  biggest mass extinction of all, and some of these exposures have not been  studied in much detail,let alone from the point of view of mass  extinctions.  Perhaps, being thus far somewhat geographically isolated from  the scientific community of the northern hemisphere, Australia will provide  some exciting new developments in our understanding of mass extinctions.northern hemisphere, Australia will provide  some exciting new developments in our understanding of mass extinctions.	2000-03-10
US	50867590	R373YPMVS77BGT	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Sublime examination of those who seek deeper fulfilment	This is an excellent true story about a part of our existance which has not been investigated all that much in modern literature.<br />Into the Wild is a story of a young man (Chris McCandless) who wished to embark on some  thoroughly testing and meaningful adventures in the North American  wilderness, which is what any average backpacker wishes to do, except that  Chris McCandless wished to take this adventurous reckless abandon to its  strongest possible extreme. It is a most remarkable story, meticulously  researched, full of mystery and intrigue, and a must for adventurers of the  wilderness, both young and old. There are also several other thoroughly  intriguing true stories of 'wilderness seekers' in the book.<br />What is it  which motivates those who abandon 'normal life' and seek to obtain a deeper  fulfilment in such things as the wildness of nature? Are those who seek a  deeper understanding of their own natures and yearnings to be seen as  'foolish idealistic wanderers' and such like? Where is the line between  reckless abandonment and truely testing adventure?<br />A life unexamined is  not worth living Socrates said, and some would argue that we can't have  truly examined ourselves unless we have thoroughly tested ourselves amongst  such things as the wildness of nature. This book is a timely examination of  these ideas, and a must for all those who are touched by wilderness, for  all those adventerous in spirit and in heart, and for those who wish to  obtain a deeper understanding of their own natures, the wilderness, and  their place within it.	1999-12-10
US	50867590	R3F6IIQ2W7EIWS	0198503652	150521951	The Meme Machine	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Sugar is nice, but salt and pepper is the better way to go	This is a difficult book to review, because the ideas expressed are difficult either to ingest, digest, or even excrete. We're dealing with the etheral world of consciousness here, and while a a scientific analysis of  this world is to be encouraged, one needs to be careful just what kind of  conclusions we come to.<br />Dawkins' idea that there exists a very real but  etheral entity called memes, which are basically ideas passed from one  person to another, and which exist as virus-like entities within human  minds is a good one. The inference therefore that they are subject to  forces of natural selection in the same way that physical traits are, and  that they play a significant role in cultural determination and brain/mind  evolution is also a very good idea, and one worthy of detailed  investigation. This book is a good and timely examination of these ideas.<br />BUT, and this is a big BUT. My one concern with this book is this. Ms  Blackmore seems on preliminiary inspection to have taken this idea of memes  too far to entirely account for cultural and/or human mind/brain evolution.  Time may prove this view otherwise, but it is a common indictement on  science and human nature, (with the notable exception of Mr Darwins theory  of evolution), that useful ideas are used to take a simplistic view of  human nature, they become bookend or pigeon-hole caterogorisations, which  are then used to explain just about everthing. What Ms Blackmore should  perhaps remember, as she is no doubt aware, is that human nature (for want  of a better word) is not easily pigeon-holed. I don't think everything  about culture and/or the mind, at this preliminiary stage of memetic  investigation, so to speak, is determined by this very useful idea of Mr  Dawkins. Just how much our minds, and our physical brains, both in their  present and developmental (or evolutionary) sense, are influenced and/or  controlled by etheral entities, and how much they are influenced by as yet  unknown mechanisms, instincts, in-born predispositions and tendancies, and  other selective forces within our conscious universe, is something to bear  in mind.<br />Overall a thoroughly worthwhile analysis of this very useful  stream called memetic science, but one which needs to be ingested mindful  of historical precincts to be able to appreciate its fulsome flavour, and  to not be taken with either too little, or too much, of that  flavour-inducing spice we call salt.mechanisms, instincts, in-born predispositions and tendancies, and  other selective forces within our conscious universe, is something to bear  in mind.  <br />Overall a thoroughly worthwhile analysis of this very useful  stream called memetic science, but one which needs to be ingested mindful  of historical precincts to be able to appreciate its fulsome flavour, and  to not be taken with either too little, or too much, of that  flavour-inducing spice we call salt.	1999-12-07
US	50867590	R2EYDWB69479M7	0449218473	698594142	Journey: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Invigorating adventure story	Michener was drawn to stories of the Klondike gold rush whilst researching material for his voluminous Alaska, and thought this story, set dominantly in Canada, too good not to publish.<br />It is a fictional story of a few  gold seekers of the Klondike gold rush, and seeks to capture the romance,  the exhilaration, the recklessness, and the overall madness of the time. It  is an invigorating adventure story, however if I had just one quibble, the  characters for me were a little one dimensional, and the story told in a  less complex manner than it probably deserved.<br />Nevertheless a thoroughly  enjoyable expose of the spirit of adventure, capturing much that is part of  the northern spirit of romantic escapism and self discovery.	1999-12-07
US	50867590	RMJ7FY65P8WOS	186204001X	261701063	Jesus the Heretic: Freedom and Bondage in a Religious World	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Reasonable historical analysis of Christianity	Douglas Lockhart attempts to critically analyse the origin and development of &quot;Christianity&quot; from an objective viewpoint, and appears to  shed light on some of the conumdrums which scholars have troubled over for  many years. Don't expect an unthinking biased appraisal of Christianity,  nor a conventional and mundane interpretation of the development of this  complex sect of Judaism of the 1st century AD. I was impressed with the  intergration and recognition of gnostic thought with early theology, as  this has not been adequately recognised in the past.  Also important was  the emphasis on much within Christianity which has always been of a  political nature, in addition to the normal failings of human beings to  properly understand the nature of the truth, goodwill to others and  whatever this sect of Judaism ever had that was any good, much of which has  been changed and lost over time. The book comes closer to understanding the  nature and purpose of Christianity than many others of its type.	1999-10-27
US	50867590	R1SJA13M8QSAJ	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Psychology finally on the right track	This is a review from a visiting UFO, and we are pleased to find that the science of the mind on your planet has finally understood that your species  mind has evolved! Isn't it obvious that things like pregancy sickness,  religion, emotions, gambling etc etc have a biological basis, and which  have been selected for and developed over time? We wish you well on you  endeavours to understand your species minds in terms of evolutionary  theory, but we must say it's about time. (PS Incidentally don't think all  the answers are there yet, but at least you are now on the right  track....).	1999-10-27
