US	50869571	R24AHF8FL02WUO	0415327717	240721042	The Notebooks of Simone Weil	Books	1	34	36	N	N	Shoddily produced over-priced reprint of a work of genius.	Simone Weil's 'Notebooks' are a major achievement and contain a staggering wealth of insights on a very wide range of subjects from a woman who has been described, without exaggeration, as the most profound thinker of the twentieth century.  As such, this collection is invaluable and one doesn't have to read far in it to realize that Simone Weil could pack into a short sentence what many writers would need an entire volume to express, always supposing they had insights of such depth to express in the first place.    Sadly, however, the present edition is merely a cheaply reproduced reprint in one volume of the original 2-volume edition.  Physically it could hardly be said to be a real hardbound book at all since it is in effect merely a glued-spine paperback which has been stuck between paper-covered boards, a book that does not open flat, an object masquerading as a real book but with a price tag one expects to find on a limited edition fine press book.  Hence the single star.    Prospective buyers should try to find the original cloth-bound stitched edition of 'Notebooks' (New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1956, 2-volumes) on the used book market where they are readily available.  They will be getting permanent books that open flat and represent much better value for their money.	2005-07-16
US	50869571	RNI7JJJRCM9IR	0827606974	155235530	JPS Hebrew-English Tanakh	Books	1	125	137	N	Y	Nicely printed Hebrew text in a rotten binding.	Since others have described the contents of the JPS Hebrew-English Tanakh (ISBN: 0827606974) I will just say a few words about the incredibly poor binding of this book.  Although the book is well-printed on excellent paper, it is being misleadingly touted as \\"leather bound.\\"  In fact, it is cased in PAPER-covered boards, comes with a cheap and nasty glued spine, and seems to have been designed to self-destruct after minimal use.<br /><br />For a more durable bilingual Tanakh, and one with a much more interesting English translation, readers might take a look at the Artscroll Stone Edition Tanach (ISBN: 0899062695) which is also available at Amazon and is the edition I now wish that I had bought.<br /><br />Too many publishers today are putting cheap glued paperbacks between cardboard covers, pretending that they are real books, and selling them at inflated prices.  Hence the single star.	2005-06-24
US	50869571	RO2YVUJGUXU62	0809123304	276934360	John Climacus: The Ladder of Divine Ascent (The Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	4	69	75	N	N	Scholarly paperback with a  lamentably ugly cover.	I now have a small collection of books from the Paulist Press Classics of Western Spirituality series.  All are well-edited and well-translated, and all come as standard glued paperbacks with that lamentably ugly Paulist cover 'art' (which here lost them one star).      The Paulist edition of 'John Climacus: The Ladder of Divine Ascent'  is certainly scholarly and reads well enough, but I became intrigued by the comparisons other reviewers were making between it and the Holy Transfiguration Monastery translation.   And so I decided to obtain a copy of the HTM edition (ISBN 0943405033) since it is once more in print at a remarkably modest price and can be ordered through their web site.     As others have pointed out, the two translations, though equally scholarly, are in very different styles.  As physical products the books are very different too, and I'm overwhelmed at the superb quality of the HTM edition -- hard bound in full gilt-blocked cloth and with a durable Smyth-sewn binding that opens flat, well printed in two colors on Sebago Antique paper, illustrated throughout with icons, and with head and tail pieces and many lovely ornaments.  The Editors' Foreword informs us that they \\"have not wished to spare labours or expense in producing an edition that is worthy of this great classic.\\"      The keen student will no doubt want to have both the Paulist and the HTM translations, as each serves to provide what the other lacks and both help clarify their occasional respective obscurities.  Bibliophiles and the Orthodox, however, will undoubtedly be more than happy to settle for the superb Holy Transfiguration Monastery edition as an elegant and tasteful vehicle for an important spiritual classic and a real book that will last.	2005-06-17
US	50869571	R21PL9ZK0AI9AD	0898708370	862304529	Earthen Vessels: The Practice of Personal Prayer According to the Patristic Tradition	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Scholarly, fascinating, and useful	Anyone who is at all interested in prayer, or in the Early Fathers in general, should read this book.  It is extremely well-researched and well-written, and the reader will be surprised again and again at the many  aspects of prayer which the world has forgotten, but which for the early Christians were of vital importance.   <br /> <br />Fr. Bunge, for example, explores in detail the question of just which direction should we face when praying, and reveals that there is a whole theology implicit in this seemingly trivial matter.  He also explores such things as the question of why prayer should sometimes be said aloud, and when it should be silent; why physical posture when praying is extremely important and which postures we should adopt; what happens during prayer, the interior processes, and much else besides. <br /> <br />The book is well-printed on excellent paper, is sewn and in a durable paper cover, is fully annotated and has a detailed bibliography, and is enlivened with many interesting pen and ink illustrations.  This is a book that will repay careful study and re-reading, and, unlike so many of the 'books' we are being given today, it will not fall apart when being re-read.  Ignatius Press is to be congratulated on having given us such a well-produced book at such a modest price.      <br /> <br />	2005-05-19
US	50869571	R1WP7VGCEEZ1FC	0199259933	306596375	Evagrius of Pontus: The Greek Ascetic Corpus (Oxford Early Christian Studies)	Books	1	22	48	N	N	THE CORPORATIZATION OF KNOWLEDGE	This is undoubtedly an important book.  Evagrius Ponticus is a fascinating writer and anything by him is well worth careful study.  But why the outrageous price?  Oxford University Press used to have an excellent reputation.  Their books were well-printed on quality paper and were issued in sewn cloth bindings.  Today we are instead being given poorly printed books on inferior paper with cheap glued spines in paper-covered boards.  We are, in other words, being given third-rate products at obscenely inflated prices.      The aim seems to be to restrict access to serious works by making them accessible only to those affiliated with institutions which presumably have the funds to purchase such grotesquely overpriced books.      This is not publication as a public service.  It doesn't even seem to be publication for profit.  It smacks more of publication as contributing to the growing corporatization of knowledge.  What OUP seems to be thinking is: \\"Well, OK, let's publish this, but let's price it so that only institutions can afford to buy it.\\"      In the new world that is coming, books will exist only in libraries.  Only specialists will have access to these libraries, and then only to the specific areas devoted to their specialism.  OUP's pricing policy clearly heralds such a world.  Hence the single star.	2005-05-19
US	50869571	R2U1WHM3VCETP0	0881410772	703667682	St Isaac of Nineveh on Ascetical Life (English and Syriac Edition)	Books	2	31	31	N	N	Avoid this edition.	Readers who are new to St. Isaac, and who may well be wondering what all the fuss is about, would be wise to avoid the present book: 'St Isaac of Nineveh on Ascetical Life' ISBN: 0881410772.  The Introduction, having been written apparently for scholars of Syriac literature, is dull.  The translation is flat, uninspired, and contains many passages so obscure that it's impossible to extract any sort of meaning from them at all.  The translator is a scholar who seems to have practically no feeling at all for the rich spirituality of this amazing Syrian Christian.      I strongly recommend, instead of the present book, the following titles.    Sebastian Brock's 'Daily Readings With St. Isaac of Syria' ISBN: 0872431738: [[ASIN:0872431738 Daily Readings With St. Isaac of Syria (Daily Readings Series)]]     Also the same scholar's 'The Syriac Fathers on Prayer and the Spiritual Life' (which contains 60 pages of extracts from St. Isaac) ISBN 0879079010: [[ASIN:0879079010 Syriac Fathers on Prayer and the Spiritual Life (Cistercian Studies Series, 101)]]    Hilarion Alfeyev's 'The Spiritual World of Isaac the Syrian' ISBN 0879077751: [[ASIN:0879077751 The Spiritual World of Isaac the Syrian]].      Also strongly recommended is Brock's 'The Wisdom of St. Isaac the Syrian' ISBN: 0728301458. [[ASIN:0728301458 The Wisdom of Saint Isaac the Syrian (Fairacres Publications)]]    All four of these superbly translated books are happily in print and currently available at Amazon at the time of writing, and all will give you a good idea of the real beauty and profundity of St. Isaac.  But the book under review, sadly, is only too likely to put you off him forever.	2005-05-02
US	50869571	R34W7ZQ88BFK3V	0872431738	791644246	Daily Readings with St. Isaac of Syria	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A wonderful introduction to St. Isaac.	'Daily Readings with St Isaac of Syria' ISBN 0-87243-173-8. <br /> <br />For those coming to St. Isaac for the first time, this is a wonderful place to start.  The interesting and useful brief Introduction by A. M. Allchin is a minor masterpiece.  The translations, by Syriac scholar Sebastian Brock, read beautifully and succeed brilliantly in capturing something of the profound humanity and gigantic spirituality of St. Isaac.  Each of the selected readings takes up only a single page or less, and all are worth returning to often.  Of them, Allchin writes: <br /> <br />\\"For myself I can only say that there are words here which once heard are never forgotten, words which speak with the clarity and vigour which we find in the Gospels themselves:  <br /> <br />'Like a handful of dust thrown into the sea are the sins of all mankind compared with the mercy and providence of God'.\\" <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-02
US	50869571	RPYWGWJYBMLQD	019815433X	254741572	Introduction to Classical Chinese	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An excellent textbook that requires real application.	I know of two books on Classical Chinese by Raymond Dawson:<br />1. An Introduction to Classical Chinese (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1968). Written by a Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford, and comfortingly orthodox, the aim of this text is to introduce English-speaking students to the language of those important works of ancient Chinese literature which were written during the last centuries of the Chou (Zhou) period (4th and 3rd centuries B.C.). A selection of passages (in full-form printed graphs) from Mencius, Mo-tzu, Chuang-tzu, Kuo-yu, and the Tso-chuan, are followed by detailed grammatical analysis. The book ends with translations of the earlier passages, and with a full vocabulary. This is a textbook from England which demands real application. Excellent, and highly recommended. <br />2. A New Introduction to Classical Chinese (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1984). Similar in conception, emphasis, and organization to his earlier book, but with a changed selection of passages, a 27% increase in characters covered to just over 900, and a shift from W-G to Pinyin + W-G in the vocabularies. Not quite as easy to use as the earlier edition, as Dawson has omitted all romanization of characters in the detailed grammatical analyses, but an excellent book nevertheless and strongly recommended.	2002-07-18
US	50869571	R1D45O7EXII533	0671214837	831395701	My 60 Memorable Games	Books	5	132	143	N	N	A suppressed masterpiece.	Readers should be aware that there have been several editions of this book. In its original form, in descriptive notation and with Fischer's own annotations, it was very well received indeed, earning high praise from many top players and chess writers. It was also voted the best chess book in any category by the readers of the British Chess Magazine, and I'm sure by others. <br />Unfortunately, when it was later re-edited and issued in an algebraic edition, something happened to Fischer's original annotations. The editors apparently 'revised' them, and the effect was - as Fischer vehemently complained in a recent radio interview - to make him look like &quot;a patzer.&quot; He claims that the new annotations are riddled with errors and could never have come from his hand.<br />Since 'My 60 Memorable Games' is as about important to students of chess as Shakespeare's plays are to students of literature, it would be nice to be able to tell readers to avoid the mutilated algebraic edition and to make sure they get a reprint of the earlier and untampered-with edition of the book. Unhappily neither edition appears to be available. Both have been allowed to go out of print and remain out of print.<br />One is left wondering just who is keeping this masterpiece off the market. And why...?	2002-04-02
US	50869571	R1G0AF1216YBD9	0786705876	28577525	The Mammoth Book of the World's Greatest Chess Games (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	A stunning collection of superbly annotated games.	THE WORLD'S GREATEST CHESS GAMES.  Edited by Graham Burgess, John Nunn, and John Emms.  Foreword by Vishy Anand.  560 pages.  Mammoth Book Series.   New York: Carroll &amp; Graf Publishers, Inc., 1998.  ISBN 0-7867-0587-6  (pbk).<br />Although 'One Hundred of The World's Greatest Chess Games' might have been a more appropriate title - since everyone is going to quibble about the editors' selections, and, as others have pointed out, their omission of even a single game by Paul Morphy is inexcusable - this book provides what is without doubt one of the finest and most instructive game collections of all. <br />Starting with the incredibly interesting McDonnell - Labourdonnais (London 1834) - with its final position which &quot;once seen, is never forgotten: three passed pawns on the seventh rank overpowering a hapless quuen and rook&quot; -  and ending with the Anand - Lautier (Biel 1997), the collection includes the some of finest games of many of the best chess players the world has seen.  Although you're not going to find all of your favorites here, you'll find many of them.  And unfamiliar names such as Nezhmetdinov will probably end up becoming new favorites.  <br />Each game is prefaced by biographical information about the players; short but interesting accounts of the circumstances surrounding the game; and a description of whatever special characteristics the game might have.  We are, in other words, given not only text but context, that living context without some knowledge of which we will never be able to fully appreciate the brilliancies (and blunders) of these games.  The book is further enriched by the very full annotations which the editors have provided.<br />These annotations seem to me to be masterful, and to strike a perfect balance between verbal comment and analysis.  For beginners, there is plenty of verbal comment to help them understand what is happening throughout the game, comment that seems to me to be about as illuminating and helpful as you can get.  More seasoned players will appreciate the editors' often fairly lengthy analysis of variations, analysis which attempts to summarize the best and most recent thought about particular lines and helps lead us to a deeper understanding of the finer points in these games.<br />But it gets better, for not only is the content of this book exceptional, so is its layout, a layout clearly designed for ease of readabilty.  Well-printed in double columns using figurine algebraic notation, each move of the game has been given its own separate line in BOLD type.  Diagrams are plentiful, large, and clear.  Even the file (a - h) and rank (1 - 8) designations have been printed respectively both above and below and on the left and right of each diagram.  <br />Unfortunately, as a mass market paperback on poor quality paper, it comes with that special contribution to the modern reader's hell - narrow inner margins and a glued spine which seems intended to automatically self-destruct at some point.  But you can't have everything, and one added point of interest is that the 100 games have been annofritzed (Ossimitz) and the zip file is freely available for download on the Web.	2002-02-15
US	50869571	R2FX7YMQUFQBFC	0911469079	451728022	Hand-Taming Wild Birds at the Feeder	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Replacing boredom and terror with joy.	HAND-TAMING WILD BIRDS AT THE FEEDER.  By Alfred G. Martin with Photographs and Illustrations by the Author and with Cover Art and Illustrations by John Still.  144 pages.  Chambersburg, Pennsylvania: Alan C. Hood & Company, Inc., 1991 [1963].  ISBN 0-911469-07-9  (pbk).<br />Alfred Martin was something of an oddity.  When he was ten years old he learned how to tame wild birds by trapping songbirds for the English bird trade.  Later he found his way to Maine, built a house in the woods, fished, hunted, practised taxidermy, and cultivated the friendship of wild birds.  Although he possessed a great fund of knowledge about birds, we learn that no great knowledge is required to teach a wild bird to feed out of our hand.  The method Martin employed, and which <BR>will work with many though not all birds, is simplicity itself and is clearly described in his book.  What is required, then, is not knowledge but something far more difficult for us moderns - what is required is a shift of attitude, and a great deal of patience.<br />The intelligence, skills, and abilities of wild creatures are vastly underrated in our modern world.  So puffed up are we with arrogance, so obsessed with the illusion that we are at the tip of a mythical 'evolutionary tree', so proud of our technical achievements and contemptuous of life forms which seem to get along without the aid of technology, it has become almost impossible for the average person to accept the fact that wild creatures, far from being wholly other than us, are our fellows.  But for Martin birds were not so much animals as persons, and he emphasizes that without a genuine respect for their intelligence and talents, without fully accepting them as our fellows and equals, they in turn will never come to respect and trust us enough to come to our hand.  <br />Martin's book is written in a rather rambling style and contains much else besides his method of hand-taming wild birds.  His book is rich in personal anecdote, and in addition to the many good stories about his experiences with numerous species of birds and other animals there is also a great deal of information and practical advice for anyone who may be thinking of setting up a bird-feeding station to attract birds to their backyard.  Among the many topics he covers are how to build a birdbath, how to build houses and feeders, how to select appropriate foods, how to care for injured birds, and so on.  <br />Given modern society's strict insistence on the otherness of nature, however, Martin's most important lesson for us is his seemingly outrageous notion that birds are every bit as worthy and deserving of our respect and compassion as are our fellow humans.  He assures us that once we begin to see wild birds, not so much as 'animals' but as little people in their own right, it won't be long before we experience the thrill of them landing on our hands to receive the gift of food.  But before this can happen it is absolutely essential that we drop all feelings of superiority.  <br />The prevailing ideology insists on our separateness from nature.  But the idea that we are essentially different, being false, runs contrary to our nature and leads to <BR>real suffering, the suffering of an alienation that issues in boredom.  Martin points out that birds rightly consider man as their worst enemy.  Terror is the form  their suffering takes.  Martin's achievement is to have given us a book which demonstrates how easily both the bird's terror and man's boredom can be replaced with real joy.	2002-01-25
US	50869571	R3VUELMZ38LWCI	1884822312	190289433	Chess: 5334 Problems, Combinations, and Games	Books	5	88	90	N	N	Feel your chess muscles grow!	CHESS training in 5333 + 1 positions.  By [Laszlo] Polgar.  1104 pages.  Koln: Konemann Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, 1994.  ISBN 3-89508-094-2 (hbk).  Reissued by Black Dog & Leventhal Publishers as 'Chess : 5334 Problems, Combinations, and Games', with a new Introduction by Bruce Pandolfini. ISBN: 1884822312 (hbk).<br />Laszlo Polgar (1946- ), Hungarian Olympic champion, master coach, and father and trainer of  the famous Polgar sisters, has here given us a training book to beat them all, one intended for beginners and amateurs from the basic level to master candidate (2,200 Elo).  Since it includes the basic rules of chess and explains, with the help of large diagrams, how each piece moves, and since the foreword and all explanatory matter have been given in no less than ten languages - English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Swedish, Hungarian, Russian, and Japanese - it will appeal to chess lovers of almost any age, level, or nationality.<br />Basically the book consists of over 5000 problems, many taken from over-the-board play, and most of which can be solved within a few minutes - though if you're anything like me some will probably take you much longer!   Polgar explains that there are \\"very few books containing chess problems, games and endgames which are not only easy to solve but elegant and instructive as well.  And there are even fewer that offer a sufficient number for regular and intensive training over a relatively long period.\\"  His aim is to help us develop our tactics and powers of pattern recognition, and his book, which is great fun to work through and involves practically no reading at all, certainly does seem to improve one's ability to see the possibilities a position may hold.<br />After a brief Foreword, and a 'Key to symbols' which explains, simply and concisely and in a way that even a small child could understand, the basics of the game, how the pieces move, capture, and mate, and the algebraic notation used throughout the book, the diagrammed positions follow -  Mate in one (1-306); Mate in two (307-3718); Mate in three (3719-4462); 600 miniature games (4463-5062); Simple endgames (5063-5206); Polgar sisters tournament-game combinations (5207-5333+1).  The book concludes with the Solutions (which give the first move of the Mate in two problems, and complete solutions of all other problems), a Biography of Polgar, and a Bibliography.<br />The original edition of Polgar's huge book is without doubt one of the most useful and certainly the most impressive and sumptuously produced chess book I have ever seen.  The book is of full quarto size (9 inches wide x 12 tall); beautifully printed on high-quality paper with each page holding just six (or later four) large and wonderfully clear diagrams; its spine stitched for durability; bound in thick boards with full cloth; and with gilt-embossed spine and front cover.  In contrast to so many of the 'books' that are being inflicted on us today -  trashy (though far from inexpensive) products on cheap and nasty paper with glued spines that will not open flat and which seem designed to self-destruct after a few hours handling - Polgar's is a magnificent piece of book production that will hold up for a lifetime, a rare treasure that belongs in the collection of all chess enthusiasts.  <br />So if anyone out there has a bright kid they would like to be the next Bobby Fischer - or if you yourself would like to be the next Bobby Fischer! - don't pass this one up.  It's a chess library in itself, and we don't often discover something that is not only so useful and beautiful, but is also an incredible bargain to boot.  Keep it open on the coffee-table.  Study a few pages a day.  And feel your chess muscles grow!	2002-01-24
US	50869571	RRSKXSHANTX4B	081172686X	624496374	Wild Bird Guide: Black-Capped Chickadee (Wild Bird Guides)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A richly illustrated and informative account.	WILD BIRD GUIDES: BLACK-CAPPED CHICKADEE.  By Susan M. Smith.  90 pages.  Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 1997.  ISBN 0-8117-2686-X (pbk).<br />Early this January, out of some obscure impulse, and although living in a fairly heavily built-up area, I decided to set up a birdbath and feeder in my miniscule garden. The feeder held a seed bar - sunflower seeds, mixed seeds, peanuts, oats; a fruit bar - banana, pear, apple, orange; and a 'calory' bar - honey water, and suet cake.  It was an experiment.  And it was wildly successful.  My garden since has been filled with a constant stream of birds, both large and small, and their behavior provides a constant source of delight and interest.  <br />Of the seven or so species which regularly show up, undoubtedly the most interesting is the Shijukara, Japan's near-relative to the Black-capped Chickadee.  I was intrigued by the behavior of this distinctively marked tiny bird, with it's black cap and bib, which will boldly approach within a few feet of where I sit, grab a sunflower seed, fly off to a nearby branch, and then, while firmly holding the seed between its feet, noisily pound away at it with its beak to break it open.  A desire to know more quickly led me to the present book by Susan M. Smith.<br />Smith, who is a member of the Department of Biological Sciences at Mount Holyoke University, tells us that &quot;the chickadee's ability to use their feet in food manipulation is relatively unusual among perching birds&quot; (p.43).  Somewhat to my relief, she also assures us of the propriety of feeders since, with the ongoing destruction of habitat and foraging areas, feeders provide an essential source of food and water in winter, and the survival rates of birds is far higher in areas which have them.  Her book, a brief popular treatment with a scientific flavor, offers a fascinating digest of what is currently known about this remarkable bird and includes chapters on Reproduction, Winter Flocks, Diet and Foraging, Social Behavior and Communication, Surviving the Cold of Winter, Population Ecology, Relations with Humans.  <br />The book is well-printed on high quality glossy paper, stitched, bound in a sturdy wrapper, and is stunningly illustrated throughout with full-color photographs. <BR>But although well-written and richly informative, and although the author's love and respect for the chickadee are certainly evident, there is a complete absence of personal anecdote.  Readers might consider supplementing Smith's account with the following less 'scientific' but more warmly human and anecdote-filled book:<br />HAND-TAMING WILD BIRDS AT THE FEEDER.  By Alfred G. Martin.  144 pages.  Chambersburg, Pennsylvania: Alan C. Hood &amp; Company, Inc., 1963 and reprinted.  ISBN 0-911469-07-9 (pbk).<br />Both Smith's and Martin's wise observations about the chickadee are truly impressive, and no-one who is at all interested in birds will want to miss either of these <BR>fascinating books.	2002-01-21
US	50869571	R1VZHDMY27VAD9	0684808722	148312243	Damned to Fame: The Life of Samuel Beckett	Books	3	29	56	N	N	A Whitewashed and Sanitized Sam.	DAMNED TO FAME: The Life of Samuel Beckett.  By James Knowlson.  800 pages.  New York: Simon and Schuster, 1996.  ISBN 0-684-80872-2  (hbk).<br />Although few lives bear looking into too deeply, from an 'Official Biography' of a writer as important as Beckett one expects something better than the mass of distortions, omissions, over and under-emphases, and general slurrings-over that Knowlson offers here in a book that has so many weaknesses it's difficult to know where to begin.  There is, in the first place, his almost total suppression of the disastrous effect Beckett's mother had on him; a cold, frigid, and neurotic woman,  dominated by notions of class, propriety, decorum, and respectability, who was determined to mold him into her idea of the ideal son who would be respected by Protestant and materialistic upper middle class Dublin society.  From Deirdre Bair's more honest account of Beckett's life we learn that he rebelled against this treatment from an early age, and that the psychological torture inflicted upon him by his mother, besides having a lot to do with his flight from Ireland, was ultimately<BR>what was behind his years of emotional misery and repeated bouts of serious physical illness.  <br />But the problem with this book runs deeper, for not only are we not given a fully realized portrait of Beckett's mother, we are not given fully realized portraits of anyone, not even of Beckett himself.  Knowlson seems incapable of conveying the essence of character, of making character vivid and memorable, whether through physical description, anecdote, or things they are known to have said.  What did it actually feel like to be Beckett as a child growing up in Foxrock?  As Portora schoolboy?  As Trinity College scholar?  As Ecole Normale Superieure lecteur?  As friend of Joyce?  As struggling writer?  As resistance worker?  As farm laborer?  As, finally, successful and famous?  We never really find out.  Nor do we find out much about his father, his brotherFrank, his long-time companion Suzanne, and his numerous relations, lovers, friends, and personal and professional acquaintances.  Many of them crop up constantly in the book, but none of them ever become real.  What, for example, was Suzanne, the woman Beckett eventually married, like as a person?  What was she like to live with?  We never find out. <br />And there's much more we never find out.  Beckett, for example, was enormously interested in the writings of the Marquis de Sade.  Why?  What were his ideas about Sade?  We don't know.  Knowlson doesn't tell us.   Beckett had a lifelong passion for chess.  He is known to have played against opponents as noteworthy as Marcel Duchamp.  He even gives us a move-by-move chess game in 'Murphy' and called one of his most important plays 'Endgame.'   But what kind of player was Beckett?  Did he favor a positional or attacking game?  How large was his chess library?  Who were his favorite masters?  We never find out.  Nor are we given transcripts of any of his games.  Knowlson is so ignorant of chess that he can even tell us that &quot;Beckett played chess with himself&quot; when what Beckett must obviously have been doing was playing over a master game from one of his books.  There is also the matter of Beckett's deep love and respect for animals, a positive trait he seems to have inherited from his mother, and which ought to be evident to even the most superficial reader, but about which Knowlson says nothing, since, like Sade and chess, animals also seem not to be part of Knowlson's mental universe.<br />Knowlson, in short, gives us no real sense of Beckett and the people around him;  ignores many of Beckett's interests and passions; and, most serious of all, fails to explore the single most important formative factor in Beckett's makeup - his extremely complex love-hate relationship with his mother.  Throughout his life Beckett suffered horribly from septic and purulent cysts and abscesses which broke out on his neck,in his jaw, palate, and even inside his anus, and which often required surgery and extended periods of convalescence.  A steady stream of pus and filth issued from his body (he even entitled some of his poems 'Sanies,' a word which means a bloody and purulent discharge), and it's difficult not to see this, along with the gloom and pessimism which infect his works,  as having something to do with the steady stream of rage and hatred that flowed into him from his mother.  But all this is a bit too much for Knowlson.  He prefers to ignore it.  All that he has to offer is a Whitewashed and Sanitized Sam.  Anyone who wants a more honest and lively account would be far better off reading Bair:   <br />SAMUEL BECKETT: A Biography. By Deirdre Bair. 736 pages. New York and London: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1978. ISBN 0-15-179256-9 (hbk).	2001-12-27
US	50869571	R12VN7VV73RFXT	0802150918	26587324	Three Novels: Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable	Books	5	107	110	N	N	Comedy and compassion in a world of fictions.	THREE NOVELS BY SAMUEL BECKETT: MOLLOY  MALONE DIES  THE UNNAMABLE.  By Samuel Beckett.  414 pages.  New York: Grove Press, 1991.  ISBN 0-8021-5091-8  (pbk).<br />There are many good reasons for reading Beckett's Trilogy.  There is, in the first place, his beautifully clear and supple prose, a prose that moves with ease from the simple and straightforward treatment of everyday matters through to passages of intense lyrical beauty, or to equally moving outbursts of extreme brutality and obscenity.   There is also Beckett's wonderful sense of humor, and readers will often find themselves chuckling at his eccentric characters and their zany carryings on.  There is the unique effect produced by the general strangeness of his novels, with their odd characters moving through vividly realized landscapes which seem real enough but in which many of the happenings are either inexplicable or left unexplained.  <br />There are also such things as his compassionate treatment of animals, for although Beckett seems most of the time to have little love for his fellow men, the intensity of his love and respect for the humbler creatures of the earth - donkeys, sheep, pigs, bees, birds, etc.,  -  can be overpowering.  Here, for example, is Beckett in 'Malone Dies' (p.304) describing, in his powerful and beautiful prose, a grey hen :  &quot;. . .  this big, anxious, ashen bird, poised irresolute on the bright threshold, then clucking and clawing behind the range and fidgeting her atrophied wings, soon to be sent flying with a broom and angry cries and soon to return, cautiously, with little hesitant steps, stopping often to listen, opening and shutting her little bright black eyes&quot;<br />There is here a total identification with a creature we would normally have difficulty identifying with, and a very real compassion.  Like Molloy,Moran, and Malone, the hen is trapped: trapped in the universe - and trapped in a body. Like them, too, it desires happiness and is averse to suffering.It is experiencing the agony of incarnation, the agony of being in a body. It suffers from heat, cold, thirst, hunger, fear, desire, confusion, frustration, loss, pain, injury, terror, and ultimately death.  It also endures many of the other afflictions that we too must somehow suffer through and try to survive - all the while uncertain as to how we got here, why we are here, and where we are going, and desperately searching for some meaning, some explanation, some way out.<br />Beckett is not easy to read.  His books demand real stamina.  They give us a world in which, despite its occasional hilarity, none of us can feel truly comfortable for nothing in it makes much sense.  For Beckett, as for the Buddhists, a continuous self is a mere illusion and has no real existence -  hence the indeterminacy of his characters, and the melting of Molloy into Moran, Malone into Macmann, etc.  Ultimately unreal, and thus without meaning, they move painfully, but also comically, through a world in which the link between cause and effect has been broken - a world which is itself therefore meaningless, and in which redemption can come only through art since in a world emptied of absolute meanings there can only be fictions.  While each of us is unconsciously busy creating the fiction which is our self, and helping to sustain the larger fiction which is society, Beckett was consciously creating his own fictions.  But they are all fictions and all ultimately without meaning.  Or perhaps one could say that the meaning is that there is no meaning.<br />Despite this general meaningless, however, readers who patiently work through these books will find much to reward them.  They offer us a true, though grotesquely exaggerated, vision of life, albeit one in which there is much that is grim and disgusting.  They also offer a marvelous field for the play of Beckett's comic genius, and he can rarely resist poking fun at the kind of mind produced by the massive organized pedantry which passesfor education in the modern world.  And finally, we should not forget those moments, more precious for their rarity - moments such as Molloy's vision of the young woman on the beach who wishes to help him - when there is an inexplicable intrusion of sheer goodness and beauty into his grim world.  Perhaps Beckett was not quite the misanthrope and pessimist he liked to pretend.  He was certainly one of the wittiest, and beneath his tough intellectual carapace there is a warmth and love he never did succeed in wholly disguising.<br />The Grove Press edition of Beckett's Trilogy is printed in an ugly heavy blunt font; comes with that special contribution to the modern reader's hell - one of those cheap-and-nasty glued spines which split easily; and (like many of Beckett's books) is riddled with typographical errors and misprints.  Potential readers would probably be better off finding the physically more handsome and durable Everyman edition, though whether it offers a more accurate text I don't know.	2001-12-20
US	50869571	R18AESPYVP43D8	0151792569	560601136	Samuel Beckett: A Biography	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Bearing the Absolute Aloneness of One's Solitary Spirit.	SAMUEL BECKETT: A Biography. By Deirdre Bair. 736 pages. New York and London: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1978. ISBN 0-15-179256-9 (hbk).<br />In 1971, while casting about for a dissertation topic, Deirdre Bair wrote to Samuel Beckett (1906-1989) to ask if she could write his biography. He replied that, while he was not prepared to help her, he wouldn't hinder her either. As things turned out, he did help her to some extent, as did many others, and the result is this well-written, well-researched, and extremely illuminating account which covers the story of Beckett's life up to 1973. Although it has since been superseded by the fuller biography, 'Damned to Fame,' by Beckett's personal friend and official biographer, James Knowlson, which appeared in 1996 and which covers the whole of Beckett's life, Bair's book seems to me to be still well worth reading. The fact that she was not a personal friend had both disadvantages and advantages. Although it meant that certain things were closed off to her, at the same time it left her a certain freedom, the freedom to say things a friend might be disinclined to say.<br />Briefly Bair sees Beckett's mother as the key factor in his formation - a cold, frigid, and neurotic woman dominated by notions of class and respectability, and determined to mold him into an ideal son who would be respected by Protestant and materialistic upper middle class Dublin society. Beckett rebelled against this treatment from an early age, and the regular campaigns of psychological torture which his mother launched whenever things didn't go her way were to lead to his years of misery, repeated bouts of serious physical illness, and eventually to the full-blown psychosis which is evident in certain of his works. With a more balanced and loving mother, and one sensitive to her son's aesthetic nature, Beckett might have led a normal and happier life, though it is doubtful he would have arrived at the shattering insights into human nature and reality thathelped make him one of the greatest writers of the age. <br />The story of Beckett's life and his extreme sufferings and spiritual anguish, as told by Deirdre Bair, is both horrifying and fascinating, and she does seem to have done her best to present it as objectively as possible, though she does allow her distaste for certain of his views to peek through at times. From her account, which covers far more than his devastating love-hate relationship with his mother, and which I can't even begin to do justice to here, we come away with an enhanced understanding of Beckett that should help anyone to better understand and appreciate his somber and often difficult works.<br />It's true that as a mere graduate student she could hardly be expected to have a grasp of Beckett's works as extensive as that of a seasoned professor such as Knowlson. It's also true that there appear to be a number of errors and misunderstandings in her work, possibly because of her limited access to materials. But her less unctuous attitude to her subject leads me to feel that we are perhaps getting a more objective portrait of Beckett, though one that in some respects is not as detailed as that provided by Knowlson, and the serious student will want to read them both.	2001-12-15
US	50869571	R1B281OK9I1LKS	0521424135	931442860	The Cambridge Companion to Beckett (Cambridge Companions to Literature)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A useful and stimulating collection of articles.	When it comes to Beckett, there are two schools of thought as to how to approach him for the first time. Some feel that we should just plunge in unprepared. Others feel that his writing is so strange and original that a certain amount of preparation is advisable before taking the plunge. But on the principle that two or more heads are better than one, there can be no-one whose understanding, after having read Beckett, will not be deepened and enhanced by reading what at least some of Beckett's many sensitive, intelligent, and informed readers have to say about his work.<br />The present collection is a fitting addition to the distinguished Cambridge series of Companions and contains thirteen pieces which cover all aspects of Beckett's work: the essays (Proust); the early English fiction (Murphy, Watt); the trilogy (Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable) and four nouvelles; Waiting for Godot and Endgame; Krapp's Last Tape to Play; Texts for Nothing and How It Is; the radio and television plays and Film; the 'dramaticules'; the Residua to Stirring Still; Beckkett's poems and verse translations; Beckett as director; Beckett's bilingualism; Beckett and the philosophers. The book also contains a Chronology of Beckett's life; detailed topical bibliographies accompanying each essay; a useful guide to Further Reading; an Index of works by Beckett; and a General Index. Physically the book is well-printed on excellent paper, and bound in a sturdy glossy wrapper.<br />Of the thirteen essays, which are of varying merit, I was particularly impressed by three - Paul Davies on the trilogy; H. Porter Abbott on How It Is (with his insightful analysis of how the poetic prose of this book works to generate multiple meanings as we read); and P. J. Murphy's leraned treatment of Beckett and the philosophers - though most of the other essays are well worth reading and add considerably to our understanding of this deep and enigmatic writer. Happily only three of the book's contributors were so balefully under the influence of French theory as to have given us pieces which are not so much about Beckett as about themselves, and which will be of interest only to those who are interested in 'Beckett Studies' as opposed to Beckett himself.<br />All in all, then, this is a useful and stimulating collection of essays which ought to be of considerable interest to most serious students of Beckett, and as such it may be strongly recommended.	2001-12-12
US	50869571	R30ND5F24DHLGW	013033524X	841762323	Emily Dickinson: A Collection of Critical Essays	Books	4	44	47	N	N	True art escapes categories.	EMILY DICKINSON: A COLLECTION OF CRITICAL ARTICLES.  Edited by Judith Farr.  New Century Views.  268 pages.  Upper Saddle River, NJ: 1996.  ISBN 0-13-033524-X  (pbk).<br />After an interesting, informative, and vigorously written Introduction by Judith Farr, eighteen articles of varying quality follow.  Of the eighteen, at least eight are definitely worth reading.  From these eight, the reader comes away with an enhanced appreciation of ED's work, with a better idea of how to go about reading and understanding her poems, and in awe of her giant sensibility.<br />Most of the remaining essays, unfortunately, seem to a greater or lesser extent to share the same defect.  They have been written from either a Christian or feminist perspective, and seem determined at all costs to find ways of making ED fit the procrustean beds of their respective ideologies.  As such they end up telling us much more about their writers than about ED, and I personally found many of them unreadable.<br />There are so many today who seem determined to reduce ED, to cut her down to their own diminished size and rope her in for their particular cause, so many partisans who are desperately pretending: &quot;In fact, you know, Emily Dickinson is really one of us!&quot;  ED, it is stridently affirmed, was an American, a Christian, and a female poet of  the 19th century.  But we all know that there were many such poets.  And where are they now?  Who is reading them?  No-one.  And if that's all ED had been I don't think anyone today would be reading her either.<br />ED escaped all bounds.  She was, in a sense, not an 'American,' certainly not a 'Christian,' and not even a 'woman.'  She was  a human being immersed like all of us in the human condition, and speaking to us out of that condtion in a way no-one has ever spoken before.  &quot;Truth is so rare a thing,&quot; she once said, and her poems offer us that commodity in abundance, irrespective of our nationality, religion, or gender.<BR>  <BR>Relevant here is the indignant remark of Georgia O'Keefe which Judith Farr quotes in her fine Introduction: &quot;I am not a _woman_ artist, I am an Artist.&quot;  Farr comments: &quot;True art, as Dickinson herself  suggests . . . finally escapes categories: national, temporal, sexual&quot; (p.15, italics in original).  In other words, as a poet, ED addresses herself, not to that which divides us, but to our shared humanity. <br />Besides Judith Farr, I think that of the critics in the present collection at least eight others would probably agree with this.  The general excellence and unbiased quality of their pieces make this collection well worth having:<br />Richard Wilbur, for his extremely interesting &quot;Sumptuous Destitution,&quot; (a piece which is immediately followed by a rather weak and unconvincing feminist riposte).<br />Cynthia Griffin Wolff, for her Bakhtinian '[Im]pertinent Constructions of the Body and Self.' <br />Suzanne Juhasz, for her stimulating &quot;The Landscape of the Spirit.&quot; <br />David Porter, for his 'Strangely Abstracted Images,' an extract from his &lt;i&gt;The Modern Idiom&lt;/i&gt; (1981). <br />Cristanne Miller, for her 'Dickinson's Experimental Grammar: Nouns and Verbs,' an extract from her &lt;i&gt;Emily<BR>Dickinson: A Poet's Grammar&lt;/i&gt; (1987). <br />Kamilla Denman, for her superb 'Emily Dickinson's Volcanic Punctuation.' <br />Judy Jo Small, for her 'A Musical Aesthetic,' an extract from her &lt;i&gt;Positive as Sound&lt;/i&gt; (1990). <br />Jerome McGann, for his brief but important 'Emily Dickinson's Visible Language.'  I was particularly impressed by this as it seems to me to demonstrate conclusively the pressing need for an edition of ED's poems that would finally respect her lineation.	2001-11-10
US	50869571	R2YECZ6AB637XC	1892582007	606103755	Emily Dickinson's Secret Love	Books	1	10	10	N	N	Reduces Emily's poetry to the level of cheap pulp fiction.	Emily Dickinson wrote POEMS, not autobiography, not history, but POEMS.  She is a great American, now globally triumphant, and her writings deserve to be treated with far greater sensitivity, intelligence, and respect than is shown in this book, a book that reduces them to the level of cheap pulp fiction.  So please don't waste your money.  Buy her poems in a good edition such as those of R. W. Franklin or Thomas H. Johnson and read them.  And if you would like to read about her life, read the excellent biography by R. B. Sewall, a scholar who gets his facts straight and who does not indulge in idle, foolish, and sensational speculation.  But whatever you do, stay away from the present book.  Emily Dickinson has much more to offer the world than the cheap thrill of an imagined romance.	2001-11-03
US	50869571	R2BU3D6QL9F8C0	0674676017	444498961	Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	3	71	82	N	Y	Thomas H. Johnson's and R. W. Franklin's Variorums	READERS SHOULD NOTE that this is a review of the following THOMAS H. JOHNSON edition, and not of the R. W. Franklin 3-volume Variorum or other editions under which it has been mistakenly placed by Amazon (I have therefore added some comments about the Franklin at the end):    Thomas H. Johnson, Editor. THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON, INCLUDING VARIANT READINGS CRITICALLY COMPARED WITH ALL KNOWN MANUSCRIPTS. 3 vols. Cambridge, Mass., and London, England:  The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, nd.  [A single-volume reprint of the original 1955 3-vol. edition].  ISBN 0-674-67601-7 HBK.    Prior to the appearance of Johnson's great variorum edition of Emily Dickinson in 1955, an edition which was the first to offer readers accurate texts of her complete poems, it was not possible to arrive at a just estimation of her tremendous achievement, an achievement that places her at the forefront of the ranks of the world's greatest poets.  Because of the highly idiosyncratic nature of her poems, all earlier editors had felt obliged, to some extent or other, and in order to make them more acceptable to the public, to normalize them by adding titles, smoothing her rhymes, changing words, regularizing punctuation, and relineating them; some editors even went so far as to remove entire stanzas.  It becomes a tribute to the power of her poems that, despite this savage treament they somehow survived, and there are many readers, even today, who have grown to love these mutilated versions without ever realizing just how far removed they are from her originals.    Although Johnson himself wasn't entirely free of the slash-and-burn approach to ED's texts - since he apparently felt that readers weren't yet ready for the peculiar lineation that we find in Emily Dickinson's own handwritten versions of the poems - he should nevertheless be credited with having brought the worst of it to an end, and for having given us texts that are closer to the originals than ever before.  He is also to be credited with having established an approximate chronological order for the 1775 poems in his edition, and for having provided us with a convenient way of referring to these untitled poems by giving each of them a number, the well-known 'Johnson numbers' which are still standard today.  Each numbered poem has been transcribed exactly as it is found in the manuscripts, though with his editorial choice of variant and with lineation normalized.  Below each poem comes a list of variants, information about the poem's manuscript source/s, and its publication history.  The poems are preceded by 70 pages of Introductory material, which include 20 pages of very interesting photographic facsimiles in illustration of ED's varied writing styles, and the book is rounded out with an Appendix, a Subject Index, and an Index of First Lines.      The single-volume version is an undated reprint of the original 1955 3-volume edition, and is a substantial book of over 1300 pages weighing in at a hefty 4lbs plus.  Given the fantastic price of the book, I was amazed to discover that, although bound in full cloth, instead of the pages being sewn in signatures it has been given a glued spine which is nowhere near strong enough to hold the weight of all these pages.  Although I'm pretty careful with books, the brand-new copy I examined split at the spine the first time I opened it.  Anyone who is interested in the Johnson variorum would be well advised to search for a copy of the much better produced earlier and stitched 3-volume version.  Although the present book deserves more than 5 stars for its content, it deserves far less for its poor physical makeup.    As a contribution to scholarship, Johnson's variorum was a magnificent achievement for its time, and helped greatly in establishing Emily Dickinson's reputation.  But much has come to light since 1955, and R. W. Franklin's richer 1998 variorum (which unlike the Johnson provides details of the original lineation) may now be said to have superseded it.  Details of the Franklin variorum are as follows:    R. W. Franklin, Editor. THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON : VARIORUM EDITION.  3 vols. Cambridge, Mass., and London, England: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1998.  ISBN 0-674-67622X  HBK.    R. W. FRANKLIN'S 3-volume Variorum differs from Thomas H. Johnson's earlier 1955 Variorum in essential ways, but most significantly in that it has added 14 poems to the total corpus, thereby bringing the total from Johnson's 1,775 to 1,789 poems. This, and the re-dating of certain poems whose dates could never be established with certainty, has led to a re-numbering of the poems which, although a Franklin-to-Johnson number conversion table is included, is very inconvenient since most writing about Emily Dickinson remains keyed to Johnson's earlier numbering.    Franklin's scholarly apparatus is extremely technical, and his approach throughout is thoroughly scientific, with one significant exception: all poems have been normalized (i.e., ED's own lineation has been ignored). As a substitute for the original shapes of the poems, footnotes indicating \\"Division\\" (line-breaks) have been given. Consequently, reconstructing the original shape of the poems in one's mind can be rather tiresome since it requires constant recourse to the Division notes.    Despite these two weaknesses, however, the Franklin, with its accurate texts and full scholarly apparatus which gives provenance, notes indicating line-breaks, variants, publishing history, etc., is an impressive achievement and as as essential reference work it will undoubtedly find many important uses. The three volumes are beautifully produced, bound in half cloth, stitched for durability, well-printed on excellent paper, and a joy to handle.	2001-11-03
US	50869571	R58CJK7EJ3MU6	0415201977	717597727	Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to the Later Heidegger (Routledge Philosophy GuideBooks)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	A clear and beautifully written exposition of Heidegger.	Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to THE LATER HEIDEGGER.  By George Pattison.  230 pp.  London: Routledge, 2000.  ISBN 0-415-20197-7 (pbk).    George Pattison, Dean of King's College, Cambridge, is a clear-headed, vigorous, and eminently fair-minded scholar who writes beautifully and with a certain passion; who has been concerned throughout to make his meaning as clear as possible to the reader; and who even allows himself an occasional bit of humor.      His book, in short, is a joy to read, and despite the length and complexity of certain of his arguments, so careful is he in preparing the ground, in structuring his exposition, and in his various summings up that you are never in any doubt as to where you have come from, exactly where you are, and where you are going.  A good writer will always keep the needs of the reader in mind, and this is what Dr Pattison has done.      In this book he sets out to describe Heidegger's life and the background to his later works; the ideas of some of the more important of these later works, including 'The Question Concerning Technology,' 'The Origin of the Work of Art,' and 'What is Called Thinking?'; and his continuing importance.  The book contains the following eight chapters: 1 - Is there a later Heidegger?; 2 - 1933 and after; 3 - Technology; 4 - Seeing things; 5 - Nietzsche; 6 - The first and second beginnings of philosophy; 7 - Holderlin; 8 - What kind of thinker?  The book is rounded out with a section of Notes, a useful Bibliography, and an Index, and is well-printed on excellent paper, bound in a sturdy plasticized wrapper, and, amazingly, even has a stitched spine.    Readers will come away from this book with an understanding of the relationship between Heidegger's earlier and later thought; with a perception that, far from being Nazistic, Heidegger's thought clearly shows signs of an early migration away from Nazism as a movement which had no answer to planetary technology; and with a fairly firm grasp of such key concepts as 'destining,' 'enframing,' 'intentionality,' etc., along with an understanding of such things as Heidegger's hermeneutic procedures, the unusual nature of his thought, and his status as a new kind of thinker.  Some background in Heidegger would be useful, but Dr Pattison's expository skills are so effective that, as a non-specialist myself, I found his book hard going in only a few places.    If this book has a weakness, it seems to me to come at the end in the author's discussion of Heidegger's encounter with the East, a discussion whose conclusion left me personally dissatisfied (though I can't claim to be non-partisan).  But even here Dr Pattison showed himself to be fair-minded, something it isn't always easy to be.  One is left with the impression that, not only is he a thorough and extremely well-informed scholar, he is also very impressive as a person, and I have no hesitation in recommending his interesting, informative, and well-written book to anyone who may be at all interested in the later thought of Heidegger.	2001-10-23
US	50869571	RYGCE1FK9F0TJ	0863161723	387055410	Heidegger for Beginners	Books	5	21	23	N	N	An entertaining and informative introduction for beginners.	HEIDEGGER FOR BEGINNERS.  By Eric LeMay &amp; Jennifer A. Pitts. Illustrated by Paul Gordon.  120 pp.  New York : Writers and Readers Publishing, Inc., 1994.  ISBN 0-86316-172-3  (Pbk).<br />It's difficult not to be impressed by the audacity of the Heideggerian enterprise.  Here is a philosopher who, at the outset of his career, decided that Western thought had been fundamentally in error about everything for the last two thousand years, and who set out single-handedly to rectify matters by showing us, not only how we ought to be thinking, but also what things were really all about.   If he was right about the West being all wrong, and there are excellent reasons for supposing that he was, he clearly becomes someone we ought to know something about.  But where to begin?  <br />The Heidegger opus is MASSIVE, and consists of upwards of a hundred or so volumes, none of them easy.  His German is notoriously obscure, even for native speakers of that language, and translation does little to improve it.  And the works of his commentators, which in 1989 ran to over four thousand books and articles and today numbers considerably more, can often be even more obscure than Heidegger himself.  Happily authors LeMay and Pitts, with the collaboration of Paul Gordon, have come to the rescue of all of those dazed and bewildered beginners out there with their extremely well-done illustrated treatment of Heidegger's basic thought.  <br />The illustrations are both effective and amusing.  The thought is authentic Heidegger and, so far as it goes, accurate.  The treatment, while witty, is respectful.  The book concludes with some good advice about Further Reading, a basic Bibliography, and a brief anthology of key extracts : 'Martin Heidegger : In His Own Words' - On the Essence of Truth; On the Subject; On Being; On Authentic Existence; On Technology, etc.  The aim, in short, seems to have been, while not overburdening the beginner with too much of Heidegger's radically different styleof thinking, to give him or her enough to stimulate a desire to know more.  In this I think the authors have been successful. 'Heidegger for Beginners' will be enjoyed by many who are new to Heidegger, and perhaps by at least some who are not so new. <br />Purists, of course, will shriek that beginners would be far better off reading Steiner, or Poggeler, or Safranski, or even Heidegger himself.  Of course they would!  But purists have a curious tendency to forget that they too were once BEGINNERS (i.e., persons who know nothing but who would like to know something), and that prior to having become self-appointed 'experts,' they might have taken a less snooty attitude to the book under review, a book which - I repeat - is for beginners who may not yet be ready for something more substantial.<br />My advice to beginners would be to forget about the purists (who rarely know as much as they like to pretend), and to curl up for a few good hours of fun and edification with LeMay and Pitts.  You'll be amused.  You'll certainly learn 'something' about Heidegger.  And some of you will be left with a desire to know more.  For those who would like to know more, details of one of the finest available conventional Introductions to Heidegger for the general reader are as follows:<br />MARTIN HEIDEGGER. By George Steiner. 173 pp. University of Chicago Press edition, 1987 (1978). ISBN 0-226-77232-2 (pbk.)	2001-10-21
US	50869571	R3MHESVOBQ7XLS	0684835339	160386834	GREAT BOOKS	Books	5	36	40	N	N	Great Book!	Frankly I'm puzzled by the many negative reviews of this book, since Denby is a wonderfully sane and balanced writer who writes extremely well.  His idea of returning to Columbia to retake a course on the 'Great Books' was a masterstroke.  The blow-by-blow account of his struggles with the set texts, and of the meaning (or lack of it) which he found in them; the wonderful portraits he gives us of his professors, both male and female, and their varied approaches and teaching styles, and of his fellow students and the conflicts and animosities which were always simmering beneath the surface (and which occasionally broke through); his interesting and even valuable insights into the texts (see for example his masterful account of Boccaccio's Decameron); and his genuine concern with social and cultural issues, and with the meaning that at least some of the Great Books can still have for us today - all these and more held my interest throughout.  It's possible that feminists don't like some of the things he said, though what he says about feminists is true enough and may easily be confirmed by a reading of Camille Paglia.  It's also possible that some readers may have been misled by the title of the book, and may have overlooked the 'My Adventures With' of the subtitle, words which ought to tell anyone that this is not so much a book about the 'Great Books' as about the author's highly invidual and personal response to them.  But for me Denby's book was one of the more interesting books I've read for some time.  I only wish I could find more like it.  And his piece about Boccaccio should definitely not be missed.<br />Briefly, Denby seems to find a pagan exuberance in Boccaccio, a frank and wholesome celebration of the flesh.  In contrast to medieval Christianity's loathing of woman we find in Boccaccio what Denby beautifully describes as &quot;a tribute to the deep-down lovableness of women&quot; (p.249).  And today, when so many women are being taught by anti-sex radical feminists to deny their own bodies and feelings, Boccaccio's celebration of the sexual avidity of the natural woman should come as a very welcome antidote.  So why the hostility to Denby?  Could it be partly because he pointed out that Boccaccio's is a scandalous book, a book that liberates, a book that returns us to &quot;the paradise from which, long ago, we had been expelled&quot; (p.248)?	2001-10-17
US	50869571	R153SWTYUXSTKK	0952300222	616416073	Master Dogen's Shobogenzo, Book 2	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Attempting a more literally accurate translation of Dogen.	MASTER DOGEN'S SHOBOGENZO - Book 2. Translated by Gudo Wafu Nishijima and Chodo Cross. 304 pp. London : Windbell Publications Ltd., 1996. ISBN 0 9523002 2 2 (Pbk).  <BR>   <BR>The works of Zen Master Dogen (1200-53) are profound. They express the point-of-view of an enlightened Master. Such works, especially when written in a sinograph-based language such as Japanese or Chinese, present very real problems of interpretation, and there are few who are equal to the task of competently translating them. Of these few, Nishijima Roshi would certainly seem to be one.<br />Born in 1919 in Yokohama, he is a graduate of the prestigious Law Department of Tokyo University. Between 1940 and 1973 - when he became a Zen priest - he combined a career in the Ministry of Finance with daily practice in Zazen and study of the 'Shobogenzo.' In his brief but extremely interesting Preface he writes:<br />&quot;I think that reading Shobogenzo is the best way to come to an exact understanding of Buddhist theory, because Master Dogen was outstanding in his ability to understand and explain Buddhism rationally&quot; (page ix).<br />In comparing the present translation with three four others I have on my shelves, I was struck by what seems to me to be its greater clarity.  Here, for example, is Norman Waddell's translation of the closing lines of Book 1, Fascicle 11 - Uji - Existence-Time :<br />&quot;Such investigations in thoroughgoing practice, reaching here and not reaching there - that is the time of being-time&quot; ('Eastern Buddhist,' Vol XII No.1, May 1979, page 129).<br />Here is the Nishijima-Cross translation of the same lines :<br />&quot;When we experience coming and experience leaving, and when we experience presence and experience absence, like this [i.e., as in the immediately preceding scriptural quotation], that time is Existence-Time&quot; (page 118).<br />One of the reasons for the difference between these two readings may have to do with Nishijima Roshi's expressed preference for a literal, as opposed to a more literary translation, as when he commented : &quot;I like the translation from which Master Dogen's Japanese can be guessed&quot; (page xi). But whatever may be the case, whereas the Waddell reading conveys little to me, the Nishijima-Cross reading immediately evokes such things as the felt presence of the absence that is death.<br />Besides its greater clarity, there are many other fine things in this book. These include the use, where appropriate, of Chinese characters, and the fact that all passages have been keyed to the 'Gendaigo-yaku-shobogenzo,' Nishijima Roshi's 13-volume edition of the 'Shobogenzo' in Modern Japanese, features the advanced student will greatly appreciate. In addition, all of Dogen's extensive quotations from the Chinese Buddhist scriptures have been italicized, and the value of this becomes instantly apparent once one starts reading.<br />The book is rounded out with three Appendices: 1. A table of the Chinese Masters; 2. A detailed Glossary of Sanskrit terms; 3. Four Bibliographies.<br />The book is bound in a strong glossy wrapper, stitched, and well-printed on excellent paper. Those who may be new to Dogen would probably be better off starting with a book of selections such as Kazuaki Tanahashi's 'Moon in a Dewdrop,' but advanced students will certainly want to have this set. <br />All in all, it has to be one of the finest and most useful translations of the 'Shobogenzo' that we have ever seen. But since this second volume contains only fascicles 22-41 of the complete 95-fascicle text of the 'Shobogenzo,' to get the complete text you will of course also have to acquire Volumes 1, 3, and 4.	2001-10-11
US	50869571	R1IPKGXIURHC3F	0804830355	681464383	Beyond Sanity & Madness Way of Zen Mas (Tuttle Library of Enlightenment)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Three Dogen texts with basic interpretation.	BEYOND SANITY AND MADNESS : The Way of Zen Master Dogen.  By Dennis Genpo Merzel.  276 pp.  Boston : Charles E. Tuttle Co., Inc., 1994.   ISBN 0-8048-3035-5  (Pbk).    Zen Master Dogen (1200-1253), founder of the Soto sect and perhaps the most brilliant mind Japan has ever produced, is a true giant of Asian thought.  Comparable in religious intensity to the great medieval Rhineland mystic Meister Eckhart (d. cir. 1327), he was also philosophic genius whose works are of an astounding richness and profundity.     Studies of Dogen's writings tend to be of two kinds.  On the one hand we have works by distinguished academics such as William R. LaFleur, Carl Bielefeldt, Hee-Jin Kim, Thomas P. Kasulis, Masao Abe, and Francis H. Cook whose main focus of attention is Dogen's rich philosophic content.  All of these scholars are well worth reading, and a handy collection of their articles will be found in LaFleur's 'Dogen Studies' (University of Hawaii Press, 1985).    Then there are the practising Zenists such as Kosho Uchiyama Roshi, Taezan Maezumi Roshi, and the present writer, Dennis Genpo Merzel, men who are perhaps drawn more to Dogen for what he can teach them about practice.  But whether of a practical or more theoretical bent, anyone who is in any way working to improve our understanding of Dogen and to disseminate his thought more widely deserves our gratitude.    Dennis Genpo Merzel, who is the founder of Kanzeon Sangha and the Abbot of Kanzeon Zen Center Utah, tells us that his book \\"does not offer any sort of scholarly analysis of Dogen Zenji's teaching, but rather discusses the essential features in his vision of Zen training and practice\\" (p.xii).  To this end he has modified earier translations of three Dogen texts and written a basic commentary to each.  The texts are:    1.  GAKUDO YOJINSHU - 'Points to Watch in Practicing the Way,' (tr. Yuho Yokoi) which deals with basic points concerning Zen training.    2.  YUIBUTSU YOBUTSU - 'Only Buddha and Buddha,' (tr.Tanahashi and Brown) on transcendental wisdom and its transmission from teacher to student.     3.  BODAISATTA SHISHOBO - 'The Four Benevolent Ways of the Bodhisattva,' (tr. Kosen Nishiyama) which elucidates the practice of _dana_ or giving (almsgiving; loving words; beneficial actions; identification with others as the expression of compassion).    Genpo Sensei's elementary commentary is preceded by a very interesting brief Introduction by Hakuyu Taizan Maezumi Roshi (from whom I have borrowed a few words), and the book is rounded out with three appendixes which repeat the texts (but this time minus commentary), a Glossary of Zen Terminology, and a brief Bibliography.     It seems to me that this book would be of use to those who are are coming to Dogen for the first time, and who would like a simple and straightforward account of his basic thought.  One way such readers might tackle a first reading of this book would be to read the complete texts in the appendixes first, referring to the commentary only as needed.  Afterwards, those who would like to learn more about Dogen's vision of Zen practice might care to take a look at the following somewhat fuller treatment :    HOW TO RAISE AN OX : Zen Practice as Taught in Zen Master Dogen's Shobogenzo - Including Ten Newly Translated Essays by Francis Dojun Cook.  Foreword by Taizan Maezumi Roshi. 216 pp. Los Angeles, California : Center Publications, 1978 and reprinted.    [[ASIN:0861713176 How to Raise an Ox: Zen Practice as Taught in Zen Master Dogen's Shobogenzo]]    A more general approach to Dogen, and one which gives an even wider selection of writings, will be found in :    MOON IN A DEWDROP - WRITINGS OF ZEN MASTER DOGEN.  Edited by Kazuaki Tanahashi. Translated by Robert Aitken, Philip Whalen, et al. 356 pp. San Francisco: North Point Press, 1985 and reprinted.    [[ASIN:086547186X Moon in a Dewdrop: Writings of Zen Master Dogen]] -    But whether you read Dogen as mediated by Genpo Sensei or Cook or Tanahashi or some other Zenist or scholar, you should certainly read some Dogen, if only to appreciate what Kazuaki Tanahashi meant when he stated that the time is ripe for Dogen to become part of the common human heritage.  He really is that wonderful.	2001-10-11
US	50869571	R35KS26HW93MMH	0521385970	574790298	The Cambridge Companion to Heidegger (Cambridge Companions to Philosophy)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	An interesting guide for new readers and non-specialists.	THE CAMBRIDGE COMPANION TO HEIDEGGER.  Edited by Charles Guignon.  389 pp.  Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 1993 and reprinted.  ISBN 0-521-385970-0  (Pbk).<br />This excellent collection of articles for students and the general reader contains, in addition to an extremely clear and useful 40-page introductory overview of Heidegger's thought and career by Charles Guignon, the following thirteen pieces:<br />1.  The Question of Being: Heidegger's Project - DOROTHEA FREDE; 2.  Reading a life : Heidegger and hard times - THOMAS SHEEHAN;  3.  The unity of Heidegger's thought - FREDERICK A. OLAFSON;  4.  Intentionality and world : Division I of 'Being and Time' - HARRISON HALL;  5.  Time and phenomenology in Husserl and Heidegger - ROBERT J. DOSTAL; 6.  Heidegger and the hermeneutic turn - DAVID COUZENS HOY; 7.  Death, time, history : Division II of 'Being and Time' - PIOTR HOFFMAN; 8.  Authenticity, moral values, and psychotherapy - CHARLES B. GUIGNON; 9.  Heidegger, Buddhism, and deep ecology - MICHAEL E. ZIMMERMAN; 10.  Heidegger and theology - JOHN D. CAPUTO; 11. Heidegger on the connection between nihilism, art, technology, and politics - HUBERT L. DREYFUS; 12.  Engaged agency and background in Heidegger - CHARLES TAYLOR; 13.  Wittgenstein, Heidegger, and the reification of language - RICHARD RORTY.<br />Although many of these contributors are distinguished Heidegger scholars, most do seem to have successfully pitched their discussion at a level suited to the non-specialist, and although this book is by no means a 'Heidegger Made Simple' (a certain amount of background in both philosophy and Heidegger would be useful) most readers should come away with an enhanced understanding of Heidegger and a desire to know more.  The absolute beginner, however, might prefer - after reading Charles Guignon's Introduction, and before plunging into the articles - to read a more extended general introduction such as George Steiner's 'Martin Heidegger' (1987).<br />Besides helping the general reader and non-specialist, the Companion will also be of use to more advanced students as providing a conspectus of recent developments in the interpretation of Heidegger, and here the inclusion of Zimmerman's excellent article is both gratifying and noteworthy.  Too often, books about Heidegger completely overlook the fact that many of the most brilliant minds in Asia have spent the last two thousand years pondering some of the very same problems that exercised Heidegger, and that a knowledge of their thoughts about such matters as Being or Time can sometimes help us to better understand Heidegger.  <br />Readers, for example, might take a look at Book 11 of Dogen's 'Shobogenzo,' UJI (Existence-Time or Being-Time), or at such works as Graham Parkes 'Heidegger and Asian Thought' or Richard Mays 'Heidegger's Hidden Sources : East Asian Influences on his Work' (see my Listmania List 'Understanding Heidegger' for details).  Dorothea Frede, in her 'The Question of Being,' asks (without answering) the question : &quot;What led to the &quot;breakthrough&quot; that provided Heidegger with the clue for attacking the question of the meaning of being in a new way . . . ?&quot; (page 51).  Who knows?  Might it have been Asian thought?  It certainly begins to look so.<br />The Companion also includes a List of contributors, a Chronology, a curiously organized 22-page Bibliography of both German and English works (which would have been easier to consult if the items had been spaced) and an Index.  It is well-printed in a large, clear font on excellent paper, is bound in a sturdy glossy wrapper, and comes with a glued spine.  Well organized and well produced, The Companion becomes a fitting addition to the distinguished Cambridge series and should be of interest to all serious students of Heidegger.	2001-10-09
US	50869571	R2IV8BDENFQTP	031224665X	57386002	Coffee: A Guide to Buying, Brewing, and Enjoying	Books	5	69	77	N	N	Duplicating the Coffee Epiphany.	COFFEE :  A Guide to Buying, Brewing, and Enjoying.  Fifth Edition.  By Kenneth Davids.   279 pp.  New York : St. Martin's Griffin,<BR>2001.  ISBN 0-312-24665-X (pbk).<br />This is a book for those who, after years of slurping what all too often passes for 'coffee,' and what far too many establishments continue to pretend is 'coffee,' have been blessed by a coffee epiphany.  It is for those, in other words, who have finally realized what a sensuous, ravishing, and complete experience a perfect cup of _real_ coffee is, and who would like to learn how to duplicate that experience at will in the comfort of their own home.  Brewing up a cup of coffee may seem to most of us to be a relatively simple matter, but what we quickly learn from this book is that, far from being simple, selecting the right type, form, and state of coffee and correctly employing the methods that will produce that perfect cup demand real knowledge and skill; we learn, in short, that a true understanding of coffee opens up an area of connoisseurship every bit as big, or even bigger, than that of wine itself.<br />Davids' book is truly comprehensive.  Besides giving us a fairly detailed history of coffee, from its origins in Arabia (or Ethiopia) through to its latest manifestation in the flavored espressos of the modern mall, the book includes chapters on Buying It, Tasting It, Roasting It, Grinding It, Brewing It, and Serving It.  Detailed information is given on the special qualities and characteristics of all coffees of the many regions of the world which produce it (Guatemala; Honduras; Costa Rica; Jamaica; Puerto Rico; Haiti; Colombia; Peru; Brazil; Yemen; Ethiopia; Kenya; Uganda; India; Sumatra; Java; New Guinea; Hawaii, etc.), and on the merits and demerits of the many different methods of brewing and the best utensils for each of them (Open-Pot; French Press or Plunger; Drip Brewing (both with and without filters); Flip-Drip or Neapolitan Macchinetta; Pumping Percolator (now passe and the best way to ruin coffee); Filter-Drip, automatic and otherwise; Concentrate; Middle Eastern or Turkish; Soluble or Instant, etc.).  There is also a very full discussion of espresso and just why it produces the ultimate cup.<br />If you are anything like me you'll quickly realize that you have been doing many things wrong and will be seized with the urge, not only to start using better coffee, but also to start brewing it properly.  Although acquiring your very own roasting machine or espresso machine may be a little too ambitious for most of us, you may decide that bringing your coffee at least one stage closer to perfection by buying a grinder and grinding the beans yourself is probably a good idea.  If you do so decide, Davids will inform you just why a manual is preferable to an electric grinder (it generates less of the heat that disperses the volatile substances that give flavor to coffee), and where you can buy a good grinder if one isn't locally available.  His book, besides containing much else (coffee chemistry, maps, photographs, coffee glossary, etc.), concludes with a list of companies which sell a wide range of the best coffees and coffee paraphernalia and equipment.<br />There are few perfect pleasures in life.  Davids is to be thanked for teaching us how not to spoil one of them.	2001-09-13
US	50869571	R2RXN3YNWMHZRU	8876535667	186404216	Introduction To Akkadian (Studia Pohl : Series Maior 9)	Books	5	65	66	N	N	An excellent manual for those working with an instructor.	INTRODUCTION TO AKKADIAN by Richard Caplice with the collaboration of David Snell.  106 pp.  Third revised edition.  Studia Pohl : Series Maior 9.  Rome : Biblical Institute Press, 1988.  ISBN 88-7653-566-7 (paper).<br />In his interesting and informative Introduction, Caplice explains that Akkadian is one of the great languages of world history that for about 2500 years was the vehicle of one of the dominant cultures of the Ancient Near East.  Abundant religious, historical, literary and grammatical records written in this language have been found, both in its heartland and in areas such as Egypt, Syria-Palestine, Anatolia and Persia.  The central area of its use was ancient Mesopotamia, which in the third millenium B.C. comprised the city-states of Sumer and Akkad.  <br />The earliest written records from this area are in Sumerian, an agglutinating language with no relationship to any other known language and which became part of the cultural heritage of Akkadian speakers.  The Akkadian language, which is a Semitic language, is itself first attested in proper names found in Sumerian texts ca. 2800 B.C., but from 2500 B.C. we find texts fully written in Akkadian.  In the last centuries of the pre-Christian era, Akkadian was increasingly replaced by Aramaic as a spoken language, and it survived only as a traditional scholarly language.<br />The present manual has been designed to offer a twelve-lesson or one-semester course in the essentials of Akkadian grammar.  Each of the twelve lessons, besides concise explanations of the grammar, contains exercises in reading, transliteration and translation which introduce the student to common vocabulary and basic cuneiform signs.  The book is rounded out with two Appendixes (I: General Phonetics of Akkadian; II: Numbers, Dating, Measures); an Index of Akkadian Vocabulary; an English-Akkadian Glossary; an Index of Signs; an Index of Sign-Values; and a Paradigm of the Strong Verb.<br />The book is beautifully printed on largepages (9.5 by 6.7 inches), stitched to open flat, and bound in a sturdy blue wrapper.  In contrast to David Marcus's 'A Manual of Akkadian,' the cuneiform signs in Caplice have been printed large enough to enable the student to easily make out the structure of even complex signs.  The Caplice, however, has not been designed as a self-study manual (answers to the exercises have not been included), and those who are not either linguists or working with an instructor will probably find it far less approachable than the Marcus, despite the inferior physical format of the latter.  For those who may be interested, details of the Marcus text are as follows :<br />A MANUAL OF AKKADIAN by David Marcus. 182 pp. New York : University Press of America, 1978. ISBN 0-8191-0608-9 (pbk.)	2001-09-13
US	50869571	R4ZXHDFX0KUB	0385299966	868672415	A Serious Character: The Life of Ezra Pound	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A balanced, witty, and hugely enjoyable biography.	A SERIOUS CHARACTER : The Life of Ezra Pound. By Humphrey Carpenter. 1005 pages. Boston : Houghton Mifflin Company, 1988. ISBN 0-395-41678-7.<br />No matter what one may think of Ezra Pound as a writer - whether he was a genius or a buffoon or a mixture of both - there can be no doubt that he was one of the most colorful and dynamic characters of the era, and that he led a rich and fascinating life well worthy of an intelligent biography. Pound's poetry, for obvious reasons (some of it being superb while much of it is just plain bad), has always had both admirers and detractors, with the former always taking great care to distance themselves from his 'anti-semitism' and economic theories while the latter seem to have seen little else, but Carpenter has amazingly succeeded in treading, with great diplomacy, the line between these two camps. While doing full justice to Pound's humanity and genius, he has at the same time made no attempt to slur over Pound's seriously flawed character, his disturbed sexuality, and the many occasions throughout his writings when his genius just failed to deliver the goods. He has in short given us, not a partisan's Pound, but an extremely fair-minded and balanced portrait of the whole man, though it's clear that Carpenter's patience with some of Pound's more outrageous eccentricities was sorely tested at times.<br />Besides being balanced, comprehensive, well-researched, well-documented, and extremely well-written, Carpenter's biography is also at times very funny. Pound's idiosyncracies could be quite amusing and they <BR>are treated by Carpenter with great wit; one often finds oneself chuckling at the scrapes Pound seemed constantly to be getting into during the course of his hectic career. But there's more, for not only are we given a detailed and blow-by-blow account of the tragi-comedy that was Pound's life, and sympathetic portraits of the many literary and other figures who played a part in it, we are also treated to sensitive and fairly incisive analyses of many of Pound's works. In short, 'A Serious Character' is a fascinating study that both admirers and detractors of Pound will enjoy, though it isn't without certain predictable weaknesses. Carpenter has made no attempt to explain why a man as intelligent as Pound should have become and remained  anti-semitic for the greater part of his life. Carpenter seems  also a little too ready to accept the standard view that Pound's economic theories were 'crackpot,' although he redeems himself to some extent towards the end of the book by quoting Allen  Ginsberg's remark when he met Pound that : &quot;'... your economics are RIGHT. We see it more and more in Vietnam. You showed us who's making a profit out of war . . .'&quot; (page 899, emphasis in original).<br />The third predictable weakness is Carpenter's seeming ignorance of and lack of interest in China. For Pound, Chinese language, thought, and history were important, and he has to be given credit as one of the very few who have realized how vital it is for the West to stop ignoring these. It's also true that he was certainly on to something when he developed the 'Ideogramic Method' which renders 'The Cantos' so obscure. Whether Pound himself realized it or not, their obscurity has the effect of pointing up a key weakness in Western thought, and anyone who is seriously grappling with 'The Cantos' might take a look at Chapter Three 'The Chinese Mind' (especially Part IV on 'Logic') in Lin Yutang's extremely informative 'My Country and My People.' It should help explain the reason for Pound's procedure in 'The Cantos,' a procedure for which he will find no adequate explanation in Carpenter. Lin Yutang states, and I don't think he was being facetious : 'I have great hope ... that the English language may one day become as clear and sensible as Chinese' ('My Country and My People,' pages 80-81). I think that Pound, although his knowledge of Chinese was limited, would have understood this. Butit seems pretty clear that Carpenter would not. <br />Why was Pound anti-semitic? What evidence is there to support the validity of his economic theories? Why was he convinced of the overwhelming importance of Chinese language and thought? For answers to these the reader will have to look elsewhere. But apart from these omissions, Carpenter has given us a truly splendid study that no-one who is at all interested in Pound should miss. Strongly recommended.	2001-09-07
US	50869571	R2686PRY5EKGVF	0811201600	897736701	Selected Cantos of Ezra Pound	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An excellent introduction to the Cantos for newcomers.	Few would claim that Ezra Pound's Cantos, taken in their entirety, are an unqualified success. As a sequence they lack any clearly discernible structure, and there is just too much in them that is obscure. At the same time, few would deny that they are studded throughout with passages of great force and beauty - brilliant lines, fragments, and even complete cantos which can be extracted from the complete text with little if any loss. One of these is what is perhaps Pound's greatest poem - his impassioned denunciation of 'Usura' : 'With Usura hath no man a house of good stone' - in Canto XLV. It is this canto, along with twenty-three others either in whole or in part, that will be found in the present book. These were selected largely by Pound himself, as he said, 'to provide the best introduction to the whole work for those coming to it for the first time.' Readers of poetry will find much to enjoy here, and some will probably be inspired to go on to a reading of the complete Cantos.<br />Those who do so would be well advised to get hold of a copy of Carroll F. Terrell's 'A Companion to the Cantos of Ezra Pound' (University of California, 1993 printing), a reference work which contains glosses to Pound's numerous literary and historical allusions, identifications of all proper names and works, and translations of his foreign quotations.  Those who become interested in the life of this extraordinary and colorful personality might consider taking a look at Humphrey Carpenter's 'A Serious Character : the Life of Ezra Pound' (Houghton Mifflin, 1988), a hugely entertaining and informative book which is perhaps the finest critical biography of Pound to have yet appeared and one which also helps considerably to elucidate many of Pound's obscurities.	2001-09-04
US	50869571	R1GNFTWORONVBC	0844238252	636760135	Sanskrit: A Complete Course for Beginners (Teach Yourself Books)	Books	4	81	90	N	N	A perverse production best avoided by beginners.	Although Coulson's 'Teach Yourself Sanskrit' is, in many ways, an excellent and extremely thorough textbook, it is hardly suited to the average beginner. Most of us are drawn to Sanskrit because of a prior interest in The Bhagavad Gita, The Upanishads, The Mahabharata, The Ramayana, even The Hitopadesa. Coulson, however, has chosen - perversely it seems to me - to draw all of his examples from Sanskrit drama, a branch of Sanskrit literature which is of minimal interest to most readers. Even worse, he seems to have designed the book primarily for exceptionally gifted students, and for those who are already competent in an ancient inflected language such as Latin or Greek. His procedure, in other words, betrays an elitist attitude that has resulted in a book which, rather than teaching anyone Sanskrit, is far more likely to put them off for life. I gave up in despair about halfway through the book, and so have many others.    This is a pity, as Sanskrit is an exceptionally beautiful language, but there is a remedy at hand. Instead of wasting one's time with Coulson, the beginner would be far better off acquiring a copy of Thomas Egenes [[ASIN:8120811402 Introduction to Sanskrit, Part 1]] and, once having worked through that and to practise your reading, his [[ASIN:8120816935 Introduction to Sanskrit, Part 2]]. Almost all introductory treatments of Sanskrit have been produced for linguists and philologists, but here finally is a truly practical and useful primer of Sanskrit for ordinary folks and human beings. After working one's way through it (and finding out why India really loves its sacred literature, epics, and wisdom stories), Coulson might be tackled with profit ... but not before.    Another possibility newcomers to Sanskrit might consider is Charles Wikner's 'A Practical Sanskrit Introductory' (1996).    This is an extremely useful 146-page Sanskrit tutorial in 15 lessons which, besides teaching Sanskrit pronunciation, Devanagari, and some basic principles, has also been designed, as Wikner says, \\"to lift the English-speaking student who knows nothing of Sanskrit to the level where he can intelligently [use] Monier-Williams' [[ASIN:019864308X A Sanskrit-English Dictionary]].\\"    He explains that Lessons 12-14 \\"penetrate Monier-Williams' dictionary through its four levels of alphabetical order, and suggest strategies for finding difficult words.\\" After studying these three lessons, users should have no further difficulty with the dictionary; in fact, it will become a real pleasure to use.    The author has generously made his book freely available and it can be downloaded from: [...]	2001-09-04
US	50869571	R1WO97J7NANPOT	0140441573	998700612	Poems of the Late T'ang (UNESCO COLLECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE WORKS :, CHINESE SERIES)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A superb anthology by a brilliant translator.	POEMS OF THE LATE T'ANG :  Translated with an Introduction by A. C. Graham.  176 pp.  (Penguin Classics).  Harmondsworth : Penguin,  1970 (1965) and Reissued.<br />Translators of Chinese poetry tend to be of various kinds.  On the one hand we have important poets such as Ezra Pound, Gary Snyder and Kenneth Rexroth, men who though perhaps not expert in Chinese were certainly conversant with it in various degrees and who have given us some truly striking and memorable translations.  <br />There are also brilliant scholar-translators such as Arthur Waley, Burton Watson, and the author of the present book, A. C. Graham, men both expert in Chinese and artists in words whose versions can be equally impressive.  <br />A. C. Graham, author of the present book and of such major works of scholarship as 'Chuang-Tzu : The Inner Chapters' (1981) and 'Disputers of the Tao' (1989) is generally reckoned, not without justice, to be one of the modern West's three greatest translators of Chinese poetry.<br />His book, after an extremely interesting 23-page essay on 'The Translation of Chinese Poetry,' offers us selections from seven major poets : Tu Fu, Meng Chiao, Han Yu, Lu T'ung, Li Ho, Tu Mu, and Li Shang-yin.  Each of the poets is given a brief introduction, and the book ends with a useful list of references to the pages on which the original texts of the poems will be found in the 'Ch'uan T'ang shih' [Complete T'ang Poems] Peking, 1960. <br />'Poems of the Late T'ang' is one of my favorite books and I've often returned to it.  All of Graham's versions read and work like original poems - their lines remain in the mind and become part of you - lines such as Meng Chiao's :<br />&quot;Who will say that the inch of grass in his heart / Is gratitude enough for all the sunshine of spring ? &quot; (p.63)<br />Personally I think that A. C. Graham deserves considerably more than an 'inch of grass in our hearts' for having instilled new life into the words of these ancient poets and givenus such a superb book, a book that is deservedly considered a modern classic and one that belongs in the collection of anyone who is at all interested in Chinese poetry.	2001-09-04
US	50869571	R36RRGICIS9TG3	0262540568	977960659	Being-in-the-World: A Commentary on Heidegger's Being and Time, Division I	Books	5	125	131	N	N	The clearest account of Heidegger's thought to date.	BEING-IN-THE-WORLD : A Commentary on Heidegger's 'Being and Time,' Division I.  By Herbert L. Dreyfus.  370 pp.  Cambridge, Massachusetts : The MIT Press, Eighth Printing 1999 (1991).  ISBN 0-262-54056-8 (pbk.)<br />Anyone who attempts to study Heidegger's commentators will quickly discover that many of them can be even more difficult than Heidegger himself.  One notable exception is George Steiner, whose 'Martin Heidegger' (1989) is such an interesting book that one wishes it had  been two or three times longer.  As a general introduction to  Heidegger's life and thought, however, it can only take one so far, and those wishing for a fuller treatment would be well advised to take  a look at the present equally lucid and stimulating study by Dreyfus.<br />He explains that he has limited detailed treatment of 'Being and Time'  to Division I of Part One (i.e., the first half), because he considers this &quot;the most original and important section of the work, for it is [here] that Heidegger works out his account of being-in-the-world and uses it to ground a profound critique of traditional ontology and epistemology&quot; (p.vii).  Division II, though containing important material, is marred by &quot;some errors so serious as to block any  consistent reading&quot; (p.viii), though it is taken up in a 57-page Appendix. <br />In his brief but extremely interesting Introduction, Dreyfus sets out  to answer the question, 'Why study Heidegger?'  If I have understood Dreyfus correctly, what he seems to be saying is that Western thought  has been fundamentally in error since the time of Plato : &quot;Plato and  our tradition got off on the wrong track by thinking that one could  have a theory of everything.... Heidegger is not against theory.  He thinks it powerful and important, but limited&quot; (p.2).  <br />Heidegger, in other words, although accepting a reasonable use of reason, has seen through the folly of that worship of reason which leads to its unreasonable and excessive use.  Dreyfus tells us that Heidegger seeks to clear away five main false assumptions :<br />1. Explicitness.  &quot;Heidegger questions both the possibility and desirability of making our everyday understanding explicit&quot; (p.4).   There are and always will be many things in life that cannot be made  explicit, that cannot be explained, that are not amenable to &quot;critical reflection,&quot; things, for example, such as human skills.  <br />2. Mental Representation.  &quot;Heidegger questions the view that experience is always and most basically a relation between a self-contained subject with mental content (the inner) and an independent object (the outer).&quot; For him &quot;there is a more fundamental way of being-in-the-world that cannot be understood in subject/object terms&quot; (p.5).  <br />3. Theoretical Holism.  Heidegger &quot;insists that we return to the phenomenon of everyday human activity and stop ringing the changes on the traditional oppositions of immanent/transcendent ... subject/ object ... explicit/tacit ... etc.&quot; (p.6).  <br />4. Detachment and Objectivity.  &quot;From the Greeks we inherit not only  our assumption that we can obtain theoretical knowledge of every domain, even human activities, but also our assumption that the detached theoretical viewpoint is superior to the involved practical viewpoint&quot; (p.6).  Heidegger, following the insights of Nietzsche, Peirce, James and Dewey, denies these assumptions.  <br />5. Methodological Individualism.  Heidegger, &quot;in his emphasis on the social context as the ultimate foundation of intelligibility [shares with Wittgenstein] the view that most philosophical problems can  be dis(solved) [sic] by a description of everyday social practices&quot; (p.7).  In other words, they are pseudo-problems.<br />If Heidegger were only clearing the ground of 2,500 years of sheer wrongheadedness, he would of course still be an extremely important and valuable thinker.  But, as Dreyfus explains, he goes further, for &quot;he  has a positive account of authentic human being and a positive methodological proposal for how human being should be systematically studied&quot; (p.8).  His influence, which today extends into many areas, has been and continues to be enormous as more and more specialists and experts and technicians of every kind begin to  appreciate the fruitfulness of his way of thinking in contrast to the often dismal results produced by their own.<br />Heidegger's 'Being and Time' is a notoriously difficult book, and Dreyfus' commentary is to be welcomed as the first study that succeeds  in making it both intelligible and exciting, even to the non-specialist reader such as myself.  As one of the clearest accounts of Heidegger's thought to date, it belongs in the library of anyone who is at all interested in this revolutionary and amazing thinker.	2001-07-09
US	50869571	R26DTO4V5PL687	0140442391	181805185	Troilus and Criseyde (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	36	41	N	N	A marvelous translation and an excellent place to start.	CHAUCER : TROILUS AND CRISEYDE. Translated into Modern English by Nevill Coghill. 332 pp.  New York : Viking Press, 1995 (Reissue). ISBN: 0140442391 (pbk.)<br />Nevill Coghill's brilliant modern English translation of Chaucer's 'The Canterbury Tales' has always been a bestseller and it's easy to understand why.  Chaucer was an intensely human writer and a great comic artist, but besides the ribaldry and sheer good fun of 'The Canterbury Tales,' we also know he was capable of other things.  His range was wide, and the striking thing about Coghill's translations are how amazingly faithful they are to the spirit of the originals - at times bawdy and hilariously funny, at other times more serious and moving when Chaucer shifts to a more poignant mode as in 'Troilus and Criseyde.' <br />But despite the brilliance of Coghill's translations, and despite the  fact that they remain the best possible introduction to Chaucer for those who don't know Middle English, those who restrict themselves to Coghill are going to miss a lot - such readers are certainly going to get the stories, but they're going to lose much of the beauty those stories have in the original language. The difference is as great as that between a black-and-white movie and technicolor.<br />Chaucer's Middle English _looks_ difficult to many, and I think I know why. It _looks_ difficult because that in fact is what people are doing, they are _looking_ at it, they are reading silently and trying to take  it in through the eye.  This is a recipe for instant frustration and failure. But fortunately there is a quick and easy remedy.<br />So much of Chaucer's power is in the sheer music of his lines, and in their energy and thrust. He was writing when English was at its most masculine and vigorous.  And his writings were intended, as was the common practice in the Middle Ages when silent reading was considered a freakish phenomenon, to be read aloud.  Those new to Chaucer would therefore be well advised, after reading and enjoying Nevill Coghill's renderings, to learn how to read Middle English _aloud_ as soon as possible by listening to one of the many excellent recordings.<br />Coghill certainly captures the spirit of Chaucer, but modern English cannot really convey the full flavor and intensity of the original. Learn how to roll a few of Chaucer's Middle English lines around on your tongue and you'll soon hear what I mean. You'll also find that it isn't nearly so difficult as it _looks_, and your pleasure in Chaucer will be magnified enormously.	2001-07-08
US	50869571	RRPFG17U5MXSE	0140440224	935878950	The Canterbury Tales: In Modern English (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A brilliant translation and an excellent place to start.	CHAUCER : THE CANTERBURY TALES.  Translated into Modern English by  Nevill Coghill. 504 pp.  Penguin Classics.  ISBN : 0140440224 (pbk.)<br />Nevill Coghill's brilliant modern English translation of Chaucer's  masterpiece, 'The Canterbury Tales,' has always been a bestseller and it's easy to understand why.  Chaucer was an intensely human writer and a great comic artist, but besides the ribaldry and sheer good fun of tales  such as 'The Miller's Tale,' we also know he was capable of other things.  His range was wide, and the striking thing about Coghill's translation is how amazingly faithful it is to the spirit of the  original - at times bawdy and hilariously funny, at other times more serious and moving when Chaucer shifts to a more poignant mode.  <br />But despite the brilliance of Coghill's translation, a translation so effective that it was even made into a successful musical, and despite  the fact that it remains the best possible introduction to Chaucer for those who don't know Middle English, those who restrict themselves to Coghill are going to miss a lot - such readers are certainly going to get the stories, but they're going to lose much of the beauty those stories have in the original language.  The difference is as great as that between a black-and-white movie and technicolor.<br />Chaucer's Middle English _looks_ difficult to many, and I think I know why.  It _looks_ difficult because that in fact is what people are  doing, they are _looking_ at it, they are reading silently and trying to take it in through the eye.  This is a recipe for instant frustration  and failure.  But fortunately there is a quick and easy remedy.<br />So much of Chaucer's power is in the sheer music of his lines, and in their energy and thrust.  He was writing when English was at its most masculine and vigorous.  And his writings were intended, as was the common practice in the Middle Ages when silent reading was considered a freakish phenomenon, to be read aloud.  Those newto Chaucer  would therefore be well advised, after reading and enjoying Nevill Coghill's rendering, to learn how to read Middle English _aloud_ as soon as possible by listening to one of the many excellent recordings (one of the best is by Robert Ross on Caedmon).  <br />Coghill certainly captures the spirit of Chaucer, but modern English cannot really convey the full flavor and intensity of the original.  Learn how to roll a few of Chaucer's Middle English lines around on your  tongue and you'll soon hear what I mean.  You'll also find that it isn't nearly so difficult as it _looks_, and your pleasure in Chaucer will be magnified enormously.	2001-07-08
US	50869571	R20T6K1XQW6MUR	0395290317	321044664	The Riverside Chaucer	Books	5	107	116	N	N	Why read Chaucer?	Why read Chaucer?  Well, in the first place for the beauty and  masculine vigor of his English, an English one soon catches on to after a bit of practice.  Why else?  Well, because Chaucer was intensely human and his stories are interesting, and either truly poignant or richly comic and sometimes even both.  Also for the rich gallery of unforgettable human types his stories bring before us, types such as:<br />The rejected Griselda - 'Lat me nat lyk a worm go by the weye;' the frisky Alisoun - ''Tehee!' quod she, and clapte the wyndow to;' the amorous Wife of Bath - 'Allas!  Allas! that evere love was synne!', the scurvy Pardoner - 'Of avarice, and of swich cursednesse / Is al my prechyng, for to make hem free / To yeven hir pens, and namely unto me', and a host of others both high and low, noble and despicable, lovable and contemptible.<br />Of course, Chaucer isn't for everyone.  Those with no feeling for his language and no sense of humor, and whose  own humanity is not their strongest point, may lack what is needed to appreciate Chaucer at his true worth.<br />The present edition is a mammoth volume of 1327 pages which includes  the complete and newly edited texts of everything Chaucer wrote - The Canterbury Tales, The Book of the Duchess, The House of Fame, Anelida  and Arcite, The Parliament of Fowls, Boece, Troilus and Criseyde, The Legend of Good Women, The Short Poems, A Treatise on the Astrolabe, The Romaunt of the Rose.  Brief language glosses are given at the foot of  each page, while fuller Notes are found at the end of the book.<br />Unfortunately the lines of the texts are numbered in the conventional way - 10, 20, 30, etc. - instead of having numbers occur _only_ at  the end of lines which have been glossed or given Notes - e.g., 9, 12, 16, 18, 32.  Such conventional numbering involves readers in the tedious and time-wasting hassle of line counting, and the equally time-wasting frustration of searching through notes only to find that no note exists.<br />The book also includes a full Introduction (Chaucers' Life, The Canon  and Chronology of Chaucer's Works, Language and Versification, The Texts), a General Bibliography, 300 pages of Explanatory Notes, 100  pages of Textual Notes, an extremely detailed 100-page Glossary, and an Index of Proper Names.<br />Despite the many helps provided by the editors, and since the needs of readers are insatiable, no-one is going to find everything they would like to find.  A complete text of this nature is best considered as one for the beginning student; scholarly texts of individual works are going to be needed by anyone who wishes to go deeper, and the Bibliography is there as a guide for those wishing to explore critical and other issues in greater depth.  <br />But in the presence of so much scholarship, there is a danger of forgetting that so much of Chaucer's power is in the sheer music of his lines. Those new to Chaucer would be well advised to learn how to read Middle English _aloud_ as soon as possible by listening to one of the many excellent recordings.  If they were to do this they'd soon  find their pleasure in Chaucer magnified enormously. <br />Robert Burton, in his Anatomy of Melancholy,' points out that 'when a thing has once been done, people think it easy; when the road is made, they forget how rough the way used to be.'  All those who love Chaucer are indebted to the editors of the present volume for having smoothed our way towards a fuller appreciation of the work of a truly marvelous poet.	2001-07-07
US	50869571	R1C1NAZIQV3JX	0393952452	695339047	The Canterbury Tales: Nine Tales and the General Prologue (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A usefully annotated edition for the beginner.	Why read Chaucer? Well, in the first place for the beauty and masculine vigor of his English, an English one soon catches on to after a bit of practice. Why else? Well, because Chaucer was intensely human and his stories are interesting, and are either truly poignant or richly comic and sometimes even both. Also for the rich gallery of unforgettable human types his stories bring before us.<br />Of course, Chaucer isn't for everyone. Those with no feeling for his language and no sense of humor, and whose own humanity is not their strongest point, may lack what is needed to appreciate Chaucer at his true worth.<br />And in the presence of critical editions such as the present one, there is a danger of forgetting that so much of Chaucer's power is in the sheer music of his lines. Those new to Chaucer would be well advised to learn how to read Middle English _aloud_ as soon as possible by listening to one of the many excellent recordings. If they were to do this they'd soon find their pleasure in Chaucer magnified enormously.	2001-07-07
US	50869571	R2213AX1ZJ8KAT	0804831076	230014347	Zen Poetry of Dogen	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The first ever book in English of Dogen's poems.	THE ZEN POETRY OF DOGEN : Verses from the Mountain of Eternal Peace. Translated by Steven Heine. 183 pp. Boston, Mass.: Tuttle Publishing, 1997. ISBN 0-8048-3107-6 (pbk.)<br />Dogen Zenji (1200-1253), founder of the Soto Zen sect, is not only one of Japan's greatest Zen Masters, but he is thought by some to have been the most brilliant writer Japan has ever produced. Although he is better known in the West for his more purely philosophic writings, most especially for his magnum opus, the 'Shobogenzo' or 'Treasury of the True Dharma Eye,' few of his poems have appeared in English before.<br />Happily the present book now remedies this lack. Besides containing a complete translation of Dogen's Japanese poetry, it also contains a representative selection of his Chinese poems. Alongside the Japanese poems, Steven Heine has thoughtfully provided romanized Japanese transcriptions. The book, which is well-printed on excellent paper (although the font used for the poems might have been bolder), also includes nine interesting halftone illustrations of Dogen, his calligraphy, Eiheiji Temple, etc.<br />Most of the poems were composed on the mountain peak of Eiheiji Temple or the 'Temple of Eternal Peace,' the temple Dogen himself founded. They are of many types (Lyrical, Doctrinal, Devotional, Personal) and cover a wide range of themes (Impermanence, Emotions, Nature, Illusion, Language, China, etc.). Here is a brief example, with my obliques to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;To what shall / I liken the world? / Moonlight, reflected / In dewdrops, / Shaken from a crane's bill&quot; (p.69).<br />Heine's renderings, on the whole, read quite well, and an occasional flatness is more than made up for by the excellence of his very full commentary which takes up the first half of the book. Since the poems serve to illuminate key aspects of Dogen's life and thought, and since Heine succeeds so well in elucidating the depths that underlie their seeming simplicity, the present book holds much that will be of interest to all lovers of Dogen.	2001-07-07
US	50869571	R1XWVRLOIFND9V	1558491694	505022049	The Emily Dickinson Handbook	Books	5	65	65	N	N	Don't pass this one up! It's a gem!	THE EMILY DICKINSON HANDBOOK : Edited by Gudrun Grabher, Roland Hagenbuchle, and Cristanne Miller. 480 pp. Amherst : University of Massachusetts Press, 1998. ISBN 1-55849-169-4 (hbk.)<br />For anyone who is seriously interested in Emily Dickinson, this is a marvelous book that provides up-to-date information about her life and works, her letters and manuscripts, the cultural climate of her age, her reception and influence, and what is going on in current Dickinson scholarship.<br />The book's 22 essays have been distributed in eight sections : Introduction; Biography; Historical Context; The Manuscripts; The Letters; Dickinson's Poetics; Reception and Influence; New Directions in Dickinson Scholarship.<br />Although I've read many critical collections, several of which were devoted exclusively to Dickinson, I can't remember ever having been so impressed. Usually an anthology will hold one or two outstanding contributions, with the rest being humdrum and of little real interest, but here pretty well all of them are outstanding, and I found only one that struck me as being both pretentious and obscure.<br />I was especially impressed by Robert Weisbuch's brilliant 'Prisming Dickinson, or Gathering Paradise by Letting Go,' by Josef Raab's 'The Metapoetic Element in Dickinson,' by Martha Nell Smith's 'Dickinson's Manuscripts,' by Paul Crumbley's 'Dickinson's Dialogic Voice,' by Roland Hagenbuchle's 'Dickinson and Literary Theory,' and in fact by many others. So much so that this seems to me the single most valuable book on Dickinson that I've ever seen, and the one from which I've learned most and continue to learn. It really is that good.<br />The book is bound in a full strong cloth, stitched, beautifully printed on excellent strong smooth ivory-tinted paper, has clearly been designed to withstand the heavy use it will be getting, and is excellent value for money. No serious student of Emily Dickinson should be without it. Weisbuch's essay, serving as it does to provide one with a whole new way of understanding ED, is pretty well worth the price of the book itself.<br />So don't pass this one up! It's a gem!	2001-07-06
US	50869571	R3DEVK4JBLR5JO	0811213269	750407831	The Cantos of Ezra Pound (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	71	106	N	N	Pound is a GIANT!	My!  My!  MY!  So they can't make sense of Pound so that means Pound  is nonsense.  So they don't have even the beginning of an  understanding of the money system and that makes Pound's economic theories crackpot.  So they don't know a word of Chinese and are  prepared to listen to obscure and envious 'scholars' (whose own work is riddled with errors and as arid as the Sahara) dismiss Pound's translations as rubbish.  So Pound was incarcerated in St. Elizabeth's for disagreeing with the system and  that means he must have been insane because anyone who disagrees with the system has to be insane.  I guess Pound's 'critics' (overgenerous word) also believe that the official world and big business have their best interests at heart too.  <br />Wake up, folks! If Pound is too difficult for some to understand because they don't have one iota of his learning then they should be honest enough to say so.  Personally I find much beauty, much meaning, and much significance in the Cantos.  But when fools look in a mirror they will invariably  see something foolish.  My advice?  Forget about them and read the Cantos along with Terrell's Companion.  Pound is a giant and there are many who dislike giants.	2001-07-03
US	50869571	R1FAD1XZZ0KK6M	0231072376	832064332	The Book of Lieh-Tzu	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Taoism and the reasonable use of reason.	THE BOOK OF LIEH-TZU : A Classic of the Tao.  Translated by A. C. Graham.  192 pp.  New York : Columbia University Press, 1990. ISBN 0-231-07237-6 (pbk.)<br />A. C. Graham tells us, in his informative Introduction to the present book, that Taoism, which attained maturity in the 3rd century B.C., is &quot;the greatest  philosophical tradition of China after Confucianism.&quot;  Modern scholars are inclined to think that its three key texts were composed in the following order : 1. the Chuang-tzu; 2. the Tao Te Ching (or the  Lao-tzu); 3. the Lieh-tzu.  The latter, which is the least well-known in the West, is &quot;a collection of stories, sayings and brief essays grouped in eight chapters, each loosely organized around a single theme&quot; (p.1) :<br />1. Heaven's Gifts (reconciliation with death); 2. The Yellow Emperor (the Taoist principle of action); 3. King Mu of Chou (the idea that life is a dream); 4. Confucius (the futility of the Confucian faith in knowledge); 5. The Questions of T'ang (the universe is infinite in space and time); 6. Endeavour and Destiny; 7. Yang Chu (a chapter on Hedonism &quot;so unlike the rest ... that it must be the work of another  hand&quot;); 8. Explaining Conjunctions (the effect of chance conjunctions of events).<br />Just why the Lieh-tzu isn't so well known I don't know, since it can  at times be every bit as sublime as the Lao-tzu, and every bit as joyous and funny as the Chuang-tzu, while the true spirit of Tao is present throughout (except perhaps in the spurious seventh chapter).  Since it's also, in some ways, a more approachable text, it would make a good entry point for newcomers to philosophical Taoism.<br />Graham is one of the West's greatest sinologists and his translation reads very well indeed.  I often get the feeling from Graham, however, that he is prevented from fully appreciating the sublimity and what to me is the self-evident truth of philosophical Taoism because he remains trapped in a Western mindset that blinds him to these.<br />On the one hand he is prepared to concede that &quot;Taoism coincides with the scientific world-view at just those points where the latter most disturbs Westerners rooted in the Christian tradition - the littleness of man in a vast universe; the inhuman Tao which all things follow, without purpose and indifferent to human [desires]; the transience of life; the impossibility of knowing what comes after death; unending change in which the possibility of progress is not even conceived; the relativity of values; [etc.]&quot; (p,13).<br />On the other hand Graham tells us that : &quot;The Taoist ... cannot be a 'philosopher' in the Western sense, establishing his case by rational argument; he can only guide us in the direction of the Way by aphorisms, poetry, and parable.  The talents he needs are those of an artist and not of a thinker&quot; (p.11).<br />What Graham fails to note is that NO philosopher has ever &quot;established his case by rational argument&quot; because, as is proved every day, rational argument leads only to further rational argument and can never lead to truth.  The Taoist would see Graham's &quot;rational argument&quot; as a futile and _excessive_ use of reason, in contrast to his more _reasonable_ use of reason, but to suggest, as Graham does, that because of this the Taoist is not a real &quot;thinker&quot; seems simply a piece of Western ethnocentrism, though Graham's blind spot prevents him from realizing this.<br />Graham's Introduction, apart from misleading the reader on this  essential point, is a fine piece of writing, and his translation is up to his usual high standards.  Those who are new to Taoism will probably find it far easier to read and considerably more illuminating than much of what passes for 'philosophy' in the modern world, while those who already know their Chuang-tzu and Lao-tzu will no doubt find it quite enjoyable too.  As the third important classic of philosophical Taoism, it becomes a valuabletext we would be unwise to overlook.	2001-07-03
US	50869571	R1JPDGD1S1U36C	0892550821	526073138	A Guide to the Cantos of Ezra Pound	Books	5	41	41	N	N	An excellent introductory guide.	The highly allusive nature of Pound's 'Cantos' makes them, as everyone knows, difficult to understand. Only when extensively annotated do they become comprehensible, and we are still waiting for the variorum edition that would provide us with an ideal text of the 'Cantos,' a fully annotated text that would clarify every allusion and obscurity, and that would provide sources and translations for Pound's numerous foreign quotations. In the meantime one is extremely grateful for books such as the present excellent introductory guide.    Basically the book consists of useful and occasionally extensive commentaries to each block of cantos, with briefer commentaries to individual cantos, followed by glosses to lines which require explication or are likely to cause puzzlement. Cookson's aim has been to provide the _minimum_ help a new reader requires.    The glosses are helpful and very well done, and Cookson's book will be found indispensable by new readers who are looking for a less intensive treatment than that found in the similar but much fuller guide by Terrell, details of which are as follows:    A COMPANION TO THE CANTOS OF EZRA POUND. By Carroll F. Terrell. 791 pp. Berkeley : University of California Press, 1993 (1980). ISBN 0-520-08287-7 (pbk.)    [[ASIN:0520082877 A Companion to The Cantos of Ezra Pound]]    Although Cookson borrowed many of his annotations from Terrell, and admits that his book is not so comprehensive, his guide does contain much useful material that will not be found in Terrell, and his canto-by-canto commentaries provide just what the new reader needs. Strongly recommended.	2001-07-02
US	50869571	R2QA8EGYL6LS4V	0253329833	370932950	The Indiana Companion to Traditional Chinese Literature, Vol. 1 (Japanese Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Highly informative &amp; useful, but no coverage of philosophy.	THE INDIANA COMPANION TO TRADITIONAL CHINESE LITERATURE.  Second  Revised Edition.  Edited by William H. Nienhauser, Charles O. Hartman, Y. W. Ma, and Stephen H. West.  1050 pp. Indiana Univ Press, 1985.  ISBN: 0253329833 (hbk.)<br />This is a monumental reference work on the pre-1911 literature of China and was over seven years in preparation.  It involved the work of almost two hundred international contributors and provides the basic background, analysis, and bibliography needed by both scholars and students to find their way around the huge corpus of Chinese literature, poetry, drama, and related commentary and scholarship.<br />Unfortunately 'literature' has been interpreted in the restricted sense of 'imaginative literature' (i.e., fiction, drama, poetry) and although some mention of China's philosophic literature was unavoidable, no entries exist for the major philosophers or philosophic texts.  This, to some, may considerably reduce the value of the book.  Major features of the book include :<br />Analytic survey essays of about 10,000 words each on Buddhist Literature, drama, fiction, literary criticism, poetry, prose, popular literature, rhetoric, Taoist (religious, not philosophic) literature, and women's literature.<br />Over 500 entries of approximately 1500 words each on famous writers, works, genres, styles, groups, movements, etc.<br />Each entry has a bilingual bibliography that lists editions, translations, and studies, and the major primary and secondary sources in Chinese, Japanese, English, French, and German.<br />Separate indexes of subjects, names, and titles.<br />Chinese names and titles have also been given in Chinese ideograms (sinographs) along with Wade-Giles transcriptions throughout.  But one irritating defect  of the book is that the pages lack headwords in the upper margins and finding a particular entry can involve a lot of riffling back and forth.<br />The book is a large heavy volume of full quarto size, well-printed in double columns on over one thousand pages of strong paper, stitched,  and bound in full cloth for durability. <br />All in all it is an extremely interesting and useful 'Companion to  Traditional Chinese _Imaginative_ Literature.'  But what a pity the editors chose to exclude what for most people is the most interesting  and significant Chinese literature of all, the philosophic literature of Ancient China.	2001-07-02
US	50869571	R395KM5INLGKG9	1558211500	708351792	The Soul of the Wolf: A Meditation on Wolves and Man	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Wolves too have souls.	THE SOUL OF THE WOLF : A Meditation on Wolves and Man.  By Michael W. Fox.  131 pp.  New York : Lyons &amp; Burford, 1992 (1980).  ISBN 1-55821-150-0 (pbk.)<br />A few years ago I read a whole shelf of books on animals - Animal Rights, Animal Theology, Animal Experimentation, Ranching and the Meat-Packing Industry, and books on individual animals such as  elephants, whales, gorillas, chimpanzees, pigs, sea otters, hamsters, and so on.  Although all of the books were extremely informative, and left me with a considerably heightened respect for the many wonderful qualities and powers of our animal kin, one book seemed somehow different and more inspiring than the others : Michael W. Fox's 'The Soul of the Wolf.'<br />Although all of the books are still sitting on my shelves, I never  open them anymore.  I don't even like to be reminded of them.  They're just too depressing.  For what all of them have in common is that they  bring home forcefully the enormity of the crime that we daily and unconsciously perpetrate against animals all across the globe.  Tens  of millions of animals are daily tortured to death in laboratories dedicated to the worship of Mammon.  Tens of millions of others are cruelly slaughtered to provide some of the unhealthiest food that  humans have ever eaten.<br />In contrast to the average unthinking selfish denizen of the modern world, who tacitly agrees to the prevailing evil, and who seemingly couldn't care less about the sufferings of animals, Michael W. Fox  comes over not merely as a concerned and compassionate figure, but  as a truly saintly person. <br />He has lived with wolves.  He has seen very deeply into their nature. He respects them as fellow creatures with whom we have many things in common, but who at the same time are vastly superior to us in many respects.  And he has understood, of course, that they too have a soul.<br />His book is at one and the same time both inspiring and profoundly saddening.  We are inspired by the marvelthat is the wolf; we are sickened at modern man's treatment of this fellow creature.<br />In the Buddhist Prajnaparamita literature there is a wonderful verse:<br />&quot;For all creatures, O Lord, desire happiness; all creatures desire happiness and are averse to suffering....&quot;<br />Most of us, presumably, are aware of this, but if you read Fox you  will also become aware that wolves too are every bit as deserving of happiness, if not moreso, as the humans who are involved in a cosmic crime, not only against wolves, but against the whole of nature, for wolves too have souls.	2001-07-02
US	50869571	R2HPAWHVTS76FC	0321012542	420218883	The Complete Works of Shakespeare (4th Edition)	Books	5	238	253	N	N	An excellent edition for the student and general reader.	THE COMPLETE WORKS OF SHAKESPEARE.  Updated Fourth Edition.  Edited by David Bevington.  2000 pp.  New York : Longman, 1997. ISBN 0-321-01254-2 (hbk.)<br />As complete Shakespeares go, the Bevington would seem have everything. Its book-length Introduction covers Life in Shakespeare's England; The Drama Before Shakespeare; London Theaters and Dramatic Companies; Shakespeare's Life and Work; Shakespeare's Language : His Development  as Poet and Dramatist; Edition and Editors of Shakespeare; Shakespeare Criticism.<br />The texts follow in groups : Comedies; Histories; Tragedies; Romances (including 'The Two Noble Kinsmen'); Poems.  Each play is given a separate Introduction adequate to the needs of a beginner, and the excellent and helpful brief notes at the bottom of each page, besides explaining individual words and lines, provide stage directions to help readers visualize the plays.<br />One extremely useful feature of the layout is that instead of being given the usual style of line numbering - 10, 20, 30, etc. - numbers occur _only_ at the end of lines which have been given footnotes - e.g.,  9, 12, 16, 18, 32.  Why no-one seems to have thought of doing this before I don't know, but it's a wonderful innovation that does away entirely with the tedious and time-wasting hassle of line counting, and the equally time-wasting frustration of searching through footnotes only to find that no note exists.  If the line has a note you will know at once, and the notes are easy for the eye to locate as the keywords preceeding notes are in bold type.<br />The book - which is rounded out with three Appendices, a Royal  Genealogy of England, Maps, Bibliography, Suggestions for Reading and Research, Textual Notes, Glossary of common words, and Index - also includes a 16-page section of striking color photographs.<br />The book is excellently printed in a semi-bold font that is exceptionally sharp, clear, and easy to read despite the show-through of its thin paper.  It is a large heavy volume of full quarto size, stitched so that it opens flat, and bound, not with cloth, but with a soft decorative paper which wears out quickly at the edges and corners.<br />If it had been printed on a slightly better paper and bound in cloth, the Bevington would have been perfect.  As it is, it's a fine piece of book-making nevertheless, and has been edited in such a way as to make the reading of Shakespeare as hassle-free and enjoyable an experience as possible.  Strongly recommended for students and the general reader.avy volume of full quarto size, stitched so that it opens flat, and bound, not with cloth, but with a soft decorative paper which wears out quickly at the edges and corners.<br />If it had been printed on a slightly better paper and bound in cloth, the Bevington would have been perfect.  As it is, it's a fine piece of book-making nevertheless, and has been edited in such a way as to make the reading of Shakespeare as hassle-free and enjoyable an experience as possible.  Strongly recommended for students and the general reader.	2001-07-02
US	50869571	R3NHYGRKAHAJLO	0231071949	902680032	The Columbia Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A witty, wise, entertaining and amusing collection.	THE COLUMBIA DICTIONARY OF QUOTATIONS.  By Robert Andrews.  1092 pp. New York: Columbia University Press, 1993.  ISBN: 0231071949  (hbk.)<br />This is a marvelous book that one can spend many happy hours with. It contains over 18,000 remarks, witticisms, judgments and observations on 1,500 alphabetically arranged subjects.  Some people like to keep such books around for when they need a quotation for a specific purpose, writers and speakers for example.  But a far better use for this one is to have it handy for occasional browsing.  More than 11,000 of its quotations have never appeared before in a quotation book, and all have been chosen not for their familiarity but for their quality and relevance to the times.  They range from the funny and memorable through to the profound, and Andrews has made such an excellent choice that one's greatest wish while reading this book is for a photographic memory. Passages will be found here from Shakespeare and Malcolm X, Lenin and Salman Rushdie, Emily Dickinson and Camille Paglia, Oscar Wilde and Frank Zappa, and a host of others.  It's the perfect book for a certain kind of moment, and there's enough here to keep anyone intrigued and entertained for a very long time.	2001-07-02
US	50869571	R1W116017LJGGC	0835607224	854280557	The Healing Energies of Music	Books	4	17	19	N	N	General discussion plus lengthy lists.	THE HEALING ENERGIES OF MUSIC.  By Hal A. Lingerman.  292 pp.  Second Edition.  Wheaton, Il.: Quest Books (The Theosophical Publishing House), 1995.  ISBN 0-8356-0722-4 (pbk.)<br />The title of this book might lead one to expect the sort of deep exploration plus practical treatment of music and sound that is found, for example, in the books of Jonathan Goldman, Don G. Campbell, and Katharin Le Mee.  These are important books that bring us astounding knowledge about the nature of sound and the powerful and important  effects it has on us, knowledge that will be complete news to most.   The present book, in contrast, is rather superficial, and does not  really tell us anything about sound and music that we don't already  know.  In fact, this book is little more than a catalogue, and one  with a powerful Christian agenda.  Each of its twelve chapters follows the same pattern - general (and occasionally gushing) comment followed by a discography.  The twelve chapters are as follows : <br />1. Music and you - A Closer Relationship; 2. Music for Better Health and Well-Being; 3. Finding Your Music; 4. Music for Daily Life; 5. Music for Home and Family; 6. The Music of Nature; 7. Angelic Music; 8. Music and Global Spirituality; 9. Gallery of Great Composers : Composer Keynotes; 10. The Deeper Mysteries of Music; 11. Music for the Future; 12. Women Composers.  <br />The book is rounded out with three Appendices, and with a Bibliography  in which I note the striking absence of Katharine Le Mee's extremely important book on Gregorian Chant.<br />Although personally I haven't found the slightest use for this book at all, I can see how it might be of some value to people looking for advice about what to listen to.  Its intended audience would seem to be the Christian who either has extremely deep pockets or access to an enormous library collection of recordings.  <br />My biggest problem with this book, however, is that it assumes a totally passive audience, an audience that simply wants to listen while waves of beautiful sound wash over them.  Not that there's anything wrong with  this as such, but nothing at all is said about our own power to create music by using the finest instrument that is available to anyone - her  or his own God-given voice.  <br />Few of us have the ability to sing well.  But all of us can learn how to tone, to produce single notes of amazing power and beauty.  And I wonder whether the production of such a note, simple and modest as it may seem, may not be doing as much or more for us than a mere  passive listening to even the most ravishing symphony or concerto.<br />The modern world is filled to overflowing with experts, whose main effect seems to have been to convince everyone that everything is best left to them.  This, however, may not be altogether true, and may have helped to destroy a great deal of individual initiative and creativity.  We all have a voice and the innate power of producing marvelous sounds.  If, after reading Lingerman and enjoying some of the very fine listening he recommends (his lists, so far as they go, are excellent), you'd like to learn about the  real mysteries of sound and how to make hugely enjoyable sounds of  your own, try taking a look at these titles :<br />HEALING SOUNDS : The Power of Harmonics. Revised Edition. By Jonathan Goldman. New York : Harper Collins, 1996 (1992). ISBN: 1852308486 (pbk.)<br />THE ROAR OF SILENCE : Healing Powers of Breath, Tone &amp; Music. By Don G. Campbell. 134 pp. Wheaton, Ill.: The Theosophical Publishing House, 1994 (1989).  ISBN 0-8356-0645-7 (pbk.)<br />CHANT : The Origins, Form, Practice, and Healing Power of Gregorian Chant. By Katharine Le Mee. 169 pp. New York : Bell Tower, 1994. ISBN 0-517-70037-9 (hbk.)<br />The wise understanding of sound shared by these books goes further than anything in the present book, and since practical instruction is given  in the first two, you may discover that you didn't really need Lingerman's lists after all.	2001-07-01
US	50869571	R11AHL4TOSTSYL	0595006655	256520343	The Healing Forces of Music: History, Theory, and Practice	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Right sound as nourishment for mind, body, and spirit.	THE HEALING FORCES OF MUSIC : History, Theory &amp; Practice.  By Randall McClellan, Ph.D.  252 pp.  August, 2000.  ISBN: 0595006655 (pbk.)<br />Sound is a subtle form of nourishment.  Consider how a loving mother  is naturally impelled to talk to her baby, although the baby cannot understand a word.  Consider the great pleasure we all take  in chatting.  Consider how we will often be found humming or singing  to ourselves in our lighter moments.  Consider the howling of wolves,  and the sounds made by other non-human creatures such as whales.  There is a whole science of sound that has barely been touched upon by official science, perhaps because, although equipped to handle knowledge, it finds itself at a loss when confronted with wisdom.<br />It is this wise understanding of sound that is being brought to us today, and in their different ways, by writers as diverse as Jonathan Goldman, Don. G. Campbell, Katharine Le Mee, and Randall McClellan. All of these writers have things to tell us about sound, voice, and music, that are extremely important for us to understand, but that aren't widely understood at all.  <br />We learn from them that sound is is a far more powerful energy than the visual and penetrates us far more deeply.  We also learn that sound is a powerful means of re-centering our frazzled spirit and restoring us to wholeness because its effect is to balance mind, emotions, and body.  This is why the right sort of sound or music is a real and needed form of subtle nourishment.<br />And since the books of most of these writers offer detailed and  practical instruction in the relatively simple art of using our voice  to produce right sound, they bring this valuable method within the reach  of everyone.  Here are details of the other three books :<br />HEALING SOUNDS : The Power of Harmonics. Revised Edition. By Jonathan Goldman. New York : Harper Collins, 1996 (1992). ISBN: 1852308486 (pbk.)<br />THE ROAR OF SILENCE : Healing Powers of Breath, Tone &amp;Music. By Don G. Campbell. 134 pp. Wheaton, Ill.: The Theosophical Publishing House, 1994 (1989).  ISBN 0-8356-0645-7 (pbk.)<br />CHANT : The Origins, Form, Practice, and Healing Power of Gregorian Chant. By Katharine Le Mee. 169 pp. New York : Bell Tower, 1994. ISBN 0-517-70037-9 (hbk.)<br />Along with the present book, these are lucid and exceptionally  important books which should be read by anyone who would like to learn about a vitally important element in our life which few of us know anything about at all - the power of sound to affect our mind, spirit, and heart, and the dessication that results when we lose touch with  right sound.	2001-07-01
US	50869571	R22SFW4VK81ZPZ	0517700379	484188885	Chant: The Origins, Form, Practice, and Healing Power of Gregorian Chant	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Music and sound as a form of subtle nourishment.	CHANT : The Origins, Form, Practice, and Healing Power of Gregorian  Chant.  By Katharine Le Mee.  169 pp.  New York : Bell Tower, 1994. ISBN 0-517-70037-9 (hbk.)<br />In 1994 a recording of Gregorian Chant entitled 'Chant,' sung by the Benedictine Monks of Santo Domingo de Silos in Spain, ran up sales of over two million copies.  People were drawn by its peaceful sound, though very few know anything about its tradition or meaning.  <br />The present book is designed as a companion book.  It includes the  Latin and English texts of the 'Chant' recording and provides answers  to questions about what Gregorian chant is, how it is written and sung, the latest research on its therapeutic qualities, and the powerful effect it can have on the body, mind, and feelings.<br />The book's eight Chapters cover the following topics : 1. Welcome to Chant; 2. Music and the Medieval World View; 3. A History of Early Western Chant; 4. The Way of Devotion;  5. The Composition and Notation of  Chant; 6. The Way Chant is Sung; 7. Healing Through Chant; 8. The Life of Chant.  The book is rounded out with a Discography, and the Text and Translation of the 'Chant' CD.  To read and enjoy this book it isn't necessary to have the recording, though it will help if one has heard at least a little Gregorian chanting.<br />Katharine Le Mee is not only a scholar of Romance Linguistics, but also a singer and conductor who has immersed herself in the music of the Middle Ages for many years, and she has given us an extraordinary book.  For me, two of its most interesting chapters were the sixth and seventh, chapters from which we learn some extremely important things about sound which aren't generally understood at all, though they should be.  <br />We live in a largely visually-based world.  Think, for example, of computers, or of how all scientific and technological knowledge is conveyed in visual terms - formulae, books, charts, blueprints, schematics, etc.  And one of the most important things to understand about sound is that it is a far more powerful energy and penetrates us far more deeply than the visual.  This is why the right sort of  music or sound can be a form of subtle nourishment :<br />&quot;The effect of chant is to balance mind, emotions, and body.  Singing or simply actively listening to chant with directed attention, we feel whole and part of a greater whole.  It is precisely this integrating tendency that constitutes healing&quot; (p.140).  <br />But to fully understand this you'll just have to read Le Mee.  Hers is a lucid, well-written, and exceptionally important book which should be read, not only by those interested in chant, but by anyone who would like to learn about this vitally important element in our life which few of us know anything about at all - the power of sound to affect our mind, spirit, and heart, and the dessication that results when we lose touch with right sound.	2001-06-30
US	50869571	R2FIH8DG54XZKY	1852308486	908850834	Healing Sounds: The Power of Harmonics (Revised Edition)	Books	5	195	202	N	N	Toning as a means of re-centering self.	HEALING SOUNDS : The Power of Harmonics.  Revised Edition.  By Jonathan Goldman.  New York : Harper Collins, 1996 (1992).  ISBN: 1852308486 (pbk.)<br />Not being either an 'expert' nor a scientist in the field of sound, I was able to approach this book with an unclouded mind and one free of preconceptions and fixed ideas.  And the most obvious thing about Goldman's book is that it  is not a scientific treatise and should therefore not be judged as  one.  It is primarily a practical manual which sets out to teach us how we can use our voice, and our ability to create harmonics and tones, in some very interesting and beneficial ways.  <br />Although Goldman has a great deal of experience in various forms of chanting and toning and is a teacher of the subject, it's altogether possible that, from the point of a view of a pretentious, reactionary, and mechanistic official science, his views may be  unorthodox in some respects.  Personally, I don't give a hoot. It's a long time since I grovelled at the shrine of official science.<br />  The human voice is an amazing and beautiful instrument and all  of us have one.  Sadly most of us are totally unaware of the power and beauty of our own God-given voice.  Goldman's book remedies that ignorance.   It gives us detailed and precise instructions for toning - &quot;the singing of prolonged sounds, usually simple vowels, on a single note&quot; (Le  Mee)- which anyone can follow.  <br />When used, preferably in conjunction with his practice tape of  exercises which can be ordered separately, you will soon be amazed to find yourself producing the most incredible and beautiful sounds.   You will also find that it's huge fun, lightens your mood, clears the mind of its usual clutter, and that it can help alleviate certain minor physical problems such as headaches and perhaps even a few major ones.  In short, it's great fun and makes you feel GOOD!<br />Its main effects are to balance the mind, emotions, and body, and if you persist in practice you will learn how to direct certain frequencies to different areas of the body where the sustained natural vibrations of your voice can be used to produce a wide range of  beneficial effects.<br />This makes perfect sense because all things, ultimately, are vibration.  Modern Physics and Ancient Science both concur in this.  The body is a complex and delicately balanced pattern of vibrations and energy flows which can very easily become disturbed, and which need continual fine-tuning and adjustment to be kept in top condition.  <br />I think that's what toning does for us.  I also think that is why wolves howl.  They don't howl, as some believe, because they are lonely or to announce someone's death.  They howl to rebalance the energies in their body and to re-center themselves.  In other words, they love to howl because it makes them feel GOOD!<br />Human beings are gifted with a much finer vocal instrument than God has seen fit to give to wolves, and Goldman (who has probably never thought of this wolf analogy anyway) is of course not asking you to howl but to tone.  My advice would be to give Goldman and toning a try.  <br />Goldman has something very important to teach us.  His is one of the  best of several books I've looked at on the subject (a related and excellent book is Katharine Le Mee's 'Chant').  And I think that if, as I did, you give it a try you'll find toning enormous fun.<br />Humming and singing are of course unconscious forms of  re-centering, though few of us have the ability to sing well.   But when it comes to producing not songs but individual notes, you'll be surprised at how well you can do and how good it makes you feel.	2001-06-30
US	50869571	R2ESZH5RRS2FTG	0835606457	684530327	The Roar of Silence: Healing Powers of Breath, Tone and Music (Quest Books)	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Understanding and using the innate music we are born with.	THE ROAR OF SILENCE : Healing Powers of Breath, Tone &amp; Music.  By Don G. Campbell.  134 pp.  Wheaton, Ill.: The Theosophical Publishing House, 1994 (1989).<br />The human voice is an amazing and beautiful instrument and all of us have one. Sadly most of us are totally unaware of the power and beauty of our own God-given voice. Campbell's book remedies that ignorance.  Among other things, it gives us detailed and precise instructions for toning - &quot;the singing of prolonged sounds, usually simple vowels, on a single note&quot; - which anyone can follow, and it takes us very deeply into the mystery that is our voice.<br />The book contains seven chapters followed by these progressive exercises : 1. Toning the Body; 2. Healing the Listener; 3. Exploring the Depths of Memory;  4. Awakening the Sonic Spectrum; 5. Exploring the Vibratory Centers; 6. Making Overtones; 7. The Roar of Silence.<br />If you follow his instructions and step-by-step exercises, you will  soon be amazed to find yourself producing the most incredible and beautiful sounds. You will also find that it's huge fun, lightens your mood, clears the mind of its usual clutter, and that it can help alleviate certain minor physical problems such as headaches and perhaps even a few major ones. In short, it's great fun and makes you feel GOOD!<br />The main effects of toning are to balance the mind, emotions, and body, and if you persist in practice you will learn how to direct certain frequencies to different areas of the body where the sustained natural vibrations of your voice can be used to produce a wide range of beneficial effects.<br />This makes perfect sense because all things, ultimately, are vibration. Modern Physics and Ancient Science both concur in this. The body is a complex and delicately balanced pattern of vibrations and energy flows which can very easily become disturbed, and which need continual fine-tuning and adjustment to be kept in top condition.<br />I think that's what toning does for us. I also think that is why wolves howl. They don't howl, as some believe, because they are lonely or to announce someone's death. They howl to rebalance the energies in their body and to re-center themselves. In other words, they love to howl because it makes them feel GOOD!<br />Human beings are gifted with a much finer vocal instrument than God has seen fit to give to wolves, and Campbell is of course not asking you to howl but to tone. My advice would be to give Campbell and toning a try.<br />Campbell has something very important to teach us. His is one of several good books I've looked at on the subject (a related and excellent book is Jonathan Goldman's 'Healing Sounds'). And I think that if, as I did, you give it a try you'll find toning enormous fun.<br />Humming and singing are of course unconscious forms of re-centering, though few of us have the ability to sing well. But when it comes to producing not songs but individual notes, you'll be surprised at how well you can do and how good it makes you feel.<br />So if you are one of those people who think that sound is 'just sound,' you might take a look at Campbell's book.  It's one of those books  that help put us back in touch with ourselves, and that bring us vitally important knowledge that could greatly benefit anyone.oes for us. I also think that is why wolves howl. They don't howl, as some believe, because they are lonely or to announce someone's death. They howl to rebalance the energies in their body and to re-center themselves. In other words, they love to howl because it makes them feel GOOD!<br />Human beings are gifted with a much finer vocal instrument than God has seen fit to give to wolves, and Campbell is of course not asking you to howl but to tone. My advice would be to give Campbell and toning a try. <br />Campbell has something very important to teach us. His is one of several good books I've looked at on the subject (a related and excellent book is Jonathan Goldman's 'Healing Sounds'). And I think that if, as I did, you give it a try you'll find toning enormous fun.<br />Humming and singing are of course unconscious forms of re-centering, though few of us have the ability to sing well. But when it comes to producing not songs but individual notes, you'll be surprised at how well you can do and how good it makes you feel.<br />So if you are one of those people who think that sound is 'just sound,' you might take a look at Campbell's book.  It's one of those books  that help put us back in touch with ourselves, and that bring us vitally important knowledge that could greatly benefit anyone.	2001-06-30
US	50869571	R27YFBC20SIEVL	0192810944	948698642	The Poems of Gerard Manley Hopkins (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	All creatures as of infinite value and infinitely precious.	THE POEMS OF GERARD MANLEY HOPKINS.  Fourth Edition based on the  First Edition of 1918 and enlarged to incorporate all known poems and  fragments.  Edited by W. H. Gardner and N. H. Mackenzie.  362 pp. Oxford and New York : Oxford University Press, 1970.  ISBN 0-19-281094-4 (pbk.)<br />For anyone who is interested in Hopkins, and everyone should be, this is the standard and authoritative edition.  It gives us the only  complete and accurate text which for the first time puts the poems in their true chronological order.<br />The poems have been arranged in four sections : Early Poems (1860-1875?); Poems (1876-1879); Unfinished Poems, Fragments, Light Verse, &amp;c. (1862-89); Translations, Latin and Welsh Poems, &amp;c. (1862-67). The book contains a useful and informative Introduction and Foreword,  and is rounded out with very full Notes, a series of Appendices, and Indexes of titles and first lines.  It is also beautifully printed on excellent paper, stitched, and bound in a sturdy glossy wrapper. <br />Hopkins had a unique sensibility, and brought something very special and of great value into English poetry.  He seems to have had the  ability to enter into the intelligence and feelings and spirit of all life forms, whether animal or plant or even landscape, to resonate with the indwelling divinity within them, and to somehow magically bring the miracle of their vibrant being over into his poems.  <br />Hopkins is in fact a striking example of the fully human sensibility as described in the works of Heidegger and the great thinkers of the East, and exemplifies a quality of sensibility which most of us seem somehow  to have lost.  We skate dully and blindly over the surface of things,  but Hopkins plunges into the depths of being and carries us along with him.  In other words, he puts us back in touch with reality, with what life is really about.  Hence his enormous value and importance.<br />In a complete collection such as this, there are bound to be many  poems that fall short of greatness.  For the newcomer to Hopkins, one  suggested approach might be to first read some of his greatest poems, poems such as 'God's Grandeur,' 'Spring,' 'The Windhover,' 'Pied  Beauty,' 'The Caged Skylark,' 'Binsey Poplars,' 'As kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame.'<br />There are many beauties to enjoy in Hopkins - his unique use of  language, his control of sound and rhythm, his amazing images and metaphors - but for me the most beautiful thing of all is the news  he brings, news of a universe in which all things are of infinite value and infinitely precious, and in which no creature is of any less value than another because all are indwelt by divinity:<br />&quot;Each mortal thing does one thing and the same : / Deals out that being indoors each one dwells ; / Selves, goes itself ; _myself_  it speaks and spells, / Crying _What I do is me : for that I came_&quot;      (p.90).<br />Hopkins makes us acutely aware of our loss, and our crime.  His poems map out a path back to a saner, more balanced, and more wholesome and intelligent way of dwelling on the earth, dwelling lightly upon it  with all other creatures and as its guardian, not its ravager.<br />&quot;O if we but knew what we do / When we delve or hew - / Hack and rack the growing green! / ... After-comers cannot guess the beauty been...' (pp.78-9). <br />Hopkins, I think, would have been very much in agreement with Heidegger who tells us that the earth must once again become a _Spielraum_ , a space of great beauty in which to play, and one in which  all creatures, instead of being treated as mere objects, are allowed  to do what they came here to do, to develop the full potential of their natures and fulfill themselves as manifestations of divinity.  His poems are unforgettable, and one envies those who may be coming to them for the first time.	2001-06-29
US	50869571	R9O96X7MXXNC5	0140585184	244021698	Donne: Selected Poetry (Poetry Library, Penguin)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A handy and fine selection, but lacks annotations.	JOHN DONNE : A Selection of His Poetry.  Edited by John Hayward. 182 pp.  New York : Viking Press, 1986 (Reissue).  ISBN 0140585184  (pbk.)<br />John Hayward is a noted and respected scholar who has here given us an excellent selection of much of Donne's finest poetry.  The book includes a generous selection from Donne's 'Songs and Sonets,'  along with representative 'Elegies,' 'Epithalamions,' 'Satyres,' 'Verse  Letters,' 'Anniversaries,' 'Epicedes and Obsequies,' and 'Divine Poems.' The poems are preceded by a brief and interesting Introduction by Hayward, a Note on the Text, and a Chronological Table, and the book is rounded out with an Index of First Lines.<br />All in all, Hayward has given us an admirable selection in which those who are already familiar with Donne are going to find most of their favorites.  As such, it can be unreservedly recommended to those who already know their Donne, and would be an excellent book, for example,  to have along on a trip.  <br />But Donne is a difficult poet, and any newcomer to Donne who takes up this book is going to have problems because of its almost complete lack of annotations.  The poems are only lightly footnoted, and the  extensive notes a beginner needs are absent.<br />Newcomers to Donne should try to find a more fully annotated edition, one that will help explain the many knotty points and obscurities that we find in the poems.  One good edition that can be recommended is Theodore Redpath's 'The Songs and Sonets [sic] of John Donne'  (1976), an edition designed for the general reader which gives detailed and extensive notes and full commentaries.  <br />Donne is a marvelous poet, and it would be a pity if new readers were  to be put off his poems by obscurities that can very quickly be resolved by a well-annotated edition.  The present edition is more of a reader's edition for those who already know and love the poems.	2001-06-29
US	50869571	R3L59F8PMB9XDY	0312744900	641173761	The Songs and Sonnets of John Donne	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An extensively annotated edition for the general reader.	THE SONGS AND SONETS [sic] OF JOHN DONNE.  Edited by Theodore Redpath. 156 pp.  London : Methuen, 1976 (1956) and Reissued.  <br />Donne is a difficult poet, and one of the main objects of this edition of the 'Songs and Sonets' (not 'Sonnets' because we are here given the original spelling) is to try to clarify any and all points where the meaning would not be perfectly clear to a reader of reasonable intelligence.<br />The text is a modern recension, based largely on the text of Grierson's 1912 edition of Donne's 'Poetical Works,' and makes use of variants recorded in that edition and in manuscript material which has since come to light.<br />Redpath's notes are full, detailed, and extensive, and in addition offer full commentaries on every poem.  He tells us that his aim was to create &quot;an edition for the general reader, which would bring these remarkable poems to readers both in England and abroad, neither merely as a sometimes exasperatingly obscure plain text, nor as part of a bulky specialist volume or series of volumes&quot; (p.vii).<br />The poems are preceeded by an interesting 35-page Introduction, and the book is rounded out with a series of Appendices, a Select  Bibliography, and an Index of First Lines.  At just 156-pages it's a slim book and pleasant to handle, and it's also quite easy to  use as most notes run alongside the text on facing pages.  <br />In a book of this nature the editor's problem is always that of trying to strike a balance between giving the reader too much help or too little.  Although Redpath may have given some readers a bit more help than they need, on the whole he seems to have struck a  nice balance, and most readers will probably find most of his notes  and commentary to be both helpful and illuminating. <br />So for those who have discovered the beauty of Donne's poems, but who may be still scratching their head over their many difficulties and obscurities, the present book will go a good way towards resolving most problems. It will enable anyone to read these poems with far greater understanding and appreciation of their nuances, and hence with far greater enjoyment.<br />Redpath's is an excellent edition, and strongly recommended.	2001-06-29
US	50869571	RCBQY8TU94XMQ	0890030588	211343850	Workbook of Cuneiform Signs (Aids and research tools in ancient Near Eastern studies)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A practical and well-designed workbook for beginners.	A WORKBOOK OF CUNEIFORM SIGNS.  Aids and Research Tools in Ancient Near Eastern Studies No.3.  By Daniel C. Snell.  140 pp.  Malibu : Undena Publications, 1979. ISBN 0-890003-058-8 (pbk.)  <br />The author tells us that the idea for this workbook came from the 'Japanese Kana Workbook' by P. G. O'Neill (Palo Alto and Tokyo : Kodansha International 1967), a highly successful workbook for teaching the Japanese syllabary.<br />Snell's cuneiform workbook gives a similar course of programmed instruction that teaches the 110 most frequently used cuneiform signs.  It teaches the standard Neo-Assyrian sign forms, and a method  encouraging active use of the signs is presented on the grounds that  an active knowledge of the signs will stay with the student longer.<br />The signs are divided into eight sections.  Each section contains step-by-step exercises and ends with a quiz reviewing all the signs presented.  Two appendices provide an alphabetic list of values taught and a list of the signs.<br />The 'Workbook' is designed for home study by students in beginning Akkadian classes and provides a practical and systematic introduction to the cuneiform writing system.  It should be used in conjunction with R. Labat's 'Manuel d'Epigraphie akkadienne' (5th ed., Paris : Geuthner, 1976).<br />The book measures 8.5 by 11.0 inches, is well-printed on strong paper, and is bound in a sturdy wrapper.  In both design and  procedure it follows O'Neill's popular and highly effective 'Kana Workbook'  very closely.  <br />Snell's 'Workbook' is an excellent book which achieves what it sets out to do.  Since it covers only 110 signs, it won't of course turn the user into a full-fledged scribe.  But it will be of value to beginners in cuneiform, and it should help dispel some of the mystery which surrounds the beautiful but complicated cuneiform signs.	2001-06-29
US	50869571	RNZ3M4H14BE1L	0811201511	533150315	ABC of Reading	Books	5	70	92	N	N	A golden book to lead us out of the fog.	ABC OF READING.  By Ezra Pound.  206 pp.  New York : New Directions, 1960 (1934) and Reissued.  ISBN 0-8112-0151-1 (pbk.)<br />Ezra Pound's 'ABC of Reading' is an attractive work.  In contrast  to the pompous and rarified nonsense of a deracinated French intelligentsia which has spread like a deadly virus through academia  and is busy wrecking young minds everywhere today, Pound's thought, to borrow the words of Gary Snyder, is like &quot;drinking cold snow-water from  a tin cup&quot; while taking in the view through crisp mountain air.  <br />The aim of the book is very ambitious, and has been stated as follows : &quot;It is a primer for the reader who wants to maintain and cultivate an active, critical mind, to become increasingly sensitive to the beauty and inspiration of the world's best literature.&quot;  In other words, it teaches what good literature is and how to appreciate it.<br />But just as life's aim - that of continuing in life - is also highly ambitious, and yet can be fulfilled by the simplest of means - pure water and a bit of wholesome food -  Pound's ABC gives the reader all she or he really needs to be able to think clearly about literature, and to distinguish between the mere chatter of poseurs and the truth that every real artist brings.<br />Reader : What is literature?  <br />EP : Literature is language charged with meaning.<br />Reader : What is great literature?<br />EP : Great literature is simply language charged with meaning to the utmost possible degree (p.28).<br />In contrast to the Lacans and Derridas and Gadamers and their groupies, men who &quot;play endlessly with ideas spun from their own entrails,&quot; with &quot;soft bodiless conceptions which are squeezed and molded,&quot; and whose passion is the pursuit of various private agendas, Pound's thoughts  have been &quot;hacked out by strength and courage from the hard stuff of reality,&quot; and the agenda he pursues is open and freely acknowledged (Maccoby).  Pound was passionately committed to the twin causes of  clear thought and good literature, to civilization-sustaining as  opposed to civilization-wrecking values.<br />What is literature?  EP : &quot;Literature is news that STAYS news&quot; (p.29).  Should we study its critics?  EP : &quot;If you wanted to know something  about an automobile, would you go to a man who had made one and driven it, or to a man who had merely heard about it?&quot; (p.30).  <br />Here we see the great danger to the status quo of men such as Pound, bearers of perfectly simple and self-evident truths in contrast to  those who becloud the mental landscape with the thick fog of their pseudo-thought, and then charge a handsome fee to act as our guides.<br />EP : &quot;Good writers are those who keep the language efficient.  That is to say, keep it accurate, keep it clear....  The fogged language of the swindling classes serves only a temporary purpose&quot; (p.33).<br />How do we charge language to the utmost possible degree with meaning? Read Chaper 8, which takes up a whole page and a half.  Note also that Pound does not merely confine himself to TELLING us what good literature is.  As an artist he knows that SHOWING is even more important, and in the second half of this small book he has assembled a collection of EXHIBITS, passages of literature both great and less than great, a sort of mini-anthology of exercises to test our  new-found wits.<br />Pound's 'ABC of Reading' is a golden book that should be read by everyone who cares about literature, and certainly by all students of literature.  It is studded with valuable thoughts you will never forget, and in its brief compass provides us with a total aesthetic.  It is also both easy to read - as is all clear and genuine thought - and hugely enjoyable.  Gallic tripe may safely be ignored.  Pound's ABC will lead you out of the fog.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R3W4EORT5BLF9Q	1564590038	279279018	Anatomy of Melancholy (2 vols.)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Not so much a book as a companion for life.	Don't be misled by the title of this book, nor by what others may have told you about it.  In the first place, it isn't so much a book about 'Melancholy' (or abnormal psychology, or depression, or whatever) as a book about Burton himself and, ultimately, about humankind.  Secondly, it isn't so much a book for students of the  history of English prose, as one for lovers of language who joy in  the strong taste of English when it was at its most masculine and vigorous.  Finally, it isn't so much a book for those interested  in the renaissance, as for those interested in life. <br />Burton is not a writer for fops and milquetoasts.  He was a crusty old devil who used to go down to the river to listen to the bargemen cursing so that he could keep in touch with the true tongue of his  race.  Sometimes I think he might have been better off as the swashbuckling Captain of a pirate ship.  But somehow he ended up as a scholar, and instead of watching the ocean satisfyingly swallowing  up his victims, he himself became an ocean of learning swallowing up whole libraries.  His book, in consequence, although it may have  begun as a mere 'medical treatise,' soon exploded beyond its bounds to become, in the words of one of his editors, &quot;a grand literary entertainment, as well as a rich mine of miscellaneous learning.&quot;<br />Of his own book he has this to say : &quot;... a rhapsody of rags gathered together from several dung-hills, excrements of authors, toys and  fopperies confusedly tumbled out, without art, invention, judgement,  wit, learning, harsh, raw, rude, phantastical, absurd, insolent, indiscreet, ill-composed, indigested, vain, scurrile, idle, dull, and dry; I confess all...&quot;  But don't believe him, he's in one of  his irascible moods and exaggerating.  In fact it's a marvelous book.<br />Here's a bit more of the crusty Burton I love; it's on his fellow scholars : &quot;Heretofore learning was graced by judicious scholars, but now noble sciences are vilified by base and illiterate scribblers.&quot;  <br />And here is Burton warming to the subject of contemporary theologians : &quot;Theologasters, if they can but pay ... proceed to the very highest degrees.  Hence it comes that such a pack of vile buffoons,  ignoramuses wandering in the twilight of learning, ghosts of  clergymen, itinerant quacks, dolts, clods, asses, mere cattle, intrude with unwashed feet upon the sacred precincts of Theology, bringing with them nothing save brazen impudence, and some hackneyed quillets and scholastic trifles not good enough for a crowd at a street corner.&quot;<br />Finally a passage I can't resist quoting which shows something of Burton's prose at its best, though I leave you to guess the subject: &quot;... with this tempest of contention the serenity of charity is overclouded, and there be too many spirits conjured up already in this kind in all sciences, and more than we can tell how to lay, which do so furiously rage, and keep such a racket, that as Fabius said, &quot;It had been much better for some of them to have been born dumb, and altogether illiterate, than so far to dote to their own destruction.&quot;<br />To fully appreciate these quotations you would have to see them in context, and I'm conscious of having touched on only one of his many moods and aspects.  But a taste for Burton isn't difficult to acquire.  He's a mine of curious learning.  When in full stride he can be very funny, and it's easy to share his feelings as he often  seems to be describing, not so much his own world as today's.  <br />But he does demand stamina.  His prose overwhelms and washes over us  like a huge tsunami, and for that reason he's probably best taken in small doses.  If you are unfamiliar with his work and were to approach him with that in mind, you might find that (as is the case with Montaigne, a very different writer) you had discovered not so  much a book as a companion for life.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R1WID76FTVHH0V	0192831925	528285642	Heidegger (Past Masters)	Books	4	9	16	N	N	A standard academic treatment of Heidegger.	This your standard garden-variety academic treatment of Heidegger, alright so far as it goes, but rather dry reading. One interesting feature is its short 4-page Glossary of Heidegger's German terminology.  It also has an index in which one notes the total absence of any mention of Buddhism, Mahayana, Zen, or the 'Tao Te Ching' (a text which Heidegger worked on), despite the fact that Heidegger's thought quite often reminds one of the great Taoist and Buddhist thinkers.<br />Anyone new to Heidegger who is looking for a good Introductory survey of the man and his thought would do much better to take a look at George Steiner's 'Martin Heidegger.'  In contrast to Inwood, Steiner writes with real passion and leaves one with a desire to know more about this amazing thinker.  In fact, Steiner's book is  so good that you'll probably want to read it again.  I was left wishing it had been two or three times longer.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R11W2FPN6E7L7E	0192831925	528285642	Heidegger (Past Masters)	Books	4	57	68	N	N	A standard academic treatment of Heidegger.	This is your standard garden-variety academic treatment of Heidegger, alright so far as it goes, but rather dry reading. One interesting feature is its short 4-page Glossary of Heidegger's German terminology. It also has an index in which one notes the total absence of any mention of Buddhism, Mahayana, Zen, or the 'Tao Te Ching' (a text which Heidegger worked on), despite the fact that Heidegger's thought quite often reminds one of the great Taoist and Buddhist thinkers.<br />Anyone new to Heidegger who is looking for a good Introductory survey of the man and his thought would do much better to take a look at George Steiner's 'Martin Heidegger.' In contrast to Inwood, Steiner writes with real passion and leaves one with a desire to know more about this amazing thinker. In fact, Steiner's book is so good that you'll probably want to read it again. I was left wishing it had been two or three times longer.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R1JD0PEY8B0EAC	0198184867	733805270	6: The Anatomy of Melancholy: Volume VI: Commentary on the Third Partition, together with Biobibliographical and Topical Indexes (|c OET |t Oxford English Texts)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	&quot;My subject is of man and humankind.&quot;	Don't be misled by the title of this book, nor by what others may have told you about it. In the first place, it isn't so much a book about 'Melancholy' (or abnormal psychology, or depression, or whatever) as a book about Burton himself and, ultimately, about humankind. Secondly, it isn't so much a book for students of the history of English prose, as one for lovers of language who joy in the strong taste of English when it was at its most masculine and vigorous. Finally, it isn't so much a book for those interested in the renaissance, as for those interested in life. <br />Burton is not a writer for fops and milquetoasts. He was a crusty old devil who used to go down to the river to listen to the bargemen cursing so that he could keep in touch with the true tongue of his race. Sometimes I think he might have been better off as the swashbuckling Captain of a pirate ship. But somehow he ended up as a scholar, and instead of watching the ocean satisfyingly swallowing up his victims, he himself became an ocean of learning swallowing up whole libraries. His book, in consequence, although it may have begun as a mere 'medical treatise,' soon exploded beyond its bounds to become, in the words of one of his editors, &quot;a grand literary entertainment, as well as a rich mine of miscellaneous learning.&quot;<br />Of his own book he has this to say : &quot;... a rhapsody of rags gathered together from several dung-hills, excrements of authors, toys and fopperies confusedly tumbled out, without art, invention, judgement, wit, learning, harsh, raw, rude, phantastical, absurd, insolent, indiscreet, ill-composed, indigested, vain, scurrile, idle, dull, and dry; I confess all...&quot; But don't believe him, he's in one of his irascible moods and exaggerating. In fact it's a marvelous book.<br />Here's a bit more of the crusty Burton I love; it's on his fellow scholars : &quot;Heretofore learning was graced by judicious scholars, but now noble sciences are vilified by base and illiterate scribblers.&quot; <br />And here is Burton warming to the subject of contemporary theologians : &quot;Theologasters, if they can but pay ... proceed to the very highest degrees. Hence it comes that such a pack of vile buffoons, ignoramuses wandering in the twilight of learning, ghosts of clergymen, itinerant quacks, dolts, clods, asses, mere cattle, intrude with unwashed feet upon the sacred precincts of Theology, bringing with them nothing save brazen impudence, and some hackneyed quillets and scholastic trifles not good enough for a crowd at a street corner.&quot;<br />Finally a passage I can't resist quoting which shows something of Burton's prose at its best, though I leave you to guess the subject: &quot;... with this tempest of contention the serenity of charity is overclouded, and there be too many spirits conjured up already in this kind in all sciences, and more than we can tell how to lay, which do so furiously rage, and keep such a racket, that as Fabius said, &quot;It had been much better for some of them to have been born dumb, and altogether illiterate, than so far to dote to their own destruction.&quot;<br />To fully appreciate these quotations you would have to see them in context, and I'm conscious of having touched on only one of his many moods and aspects. But a taste for Burton isn't difficult to acquire. He's a mine of curious learning. When in full stride he can be very funny, and it's easy to share his feelings as he often seems to be describing, not so much his own world as today's. <br />But he does demand stamina. His prose overwhelms and washes over us like a huge tsunami, and for that reason he's probably best taken in small doses. If you are unfamiliar with his work and were to approach him with that in mind, you might find that (as is the case with Montaigne, a very different writer) you had discovered not so much a book as a companion for life.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R19SJXYQ622JM4	0060692456	737179203	Hua Hu Ching: The Unknown Teachings of Lao Tzu	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Wonderful reading, though not entirely orthodox.	HUA HU CHING : The Unknown Teachings of Lao Tzu.  By Brian Walker. 108 pp.  San Francisco : Harper, 1995.  ISBN 0060692456 (pbk.)<br />Anyone who has read Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu will find much that is familiar in this book.  They will also find much that is strikingly new and different, so much so that one doubts very much that this  book could have been written by Lao Tzu (always supposing that such a person actually existed).  The book seems fairly obviously to be the work of much later thinkers, which isn't to say we should dismiss it because of that.  <br />Although certain of its ideas are, in terms of philosophic Taoism, perfectly orthodox, others are highly unorthodox, but ALL are beautifully expressed.  Brian Walker has a wonderfully lucid style, and despite the unorthodoxy of certain passages, it seems to me that a book like this can only do good.  <br />It brings to the West a wisdom that many more people would benefit from being exposed to,  and for a certain kind of reader it might prove more approachable than even Stephen Mitchell's marvelous reworking and adaptation of the  'Tao Te Ching.'  <br />Although I can understand the objections of the  purists, I don't seen any harm being done, particularly if newcomers  were to follow it up with a reading of either, or preferably both, the 'Tao Te Ching' and Chuang Tzu.<br />Chapter 10 immediately caught my attention.  Here is the opening with my obliques to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;The ego is a monkey catapulting through the jungle : / Totally fascinated by the realm of the senses, / it swings from one desire to the next, / one conflict to the next. / If you threaten it, it actually fears for its life. // Let this monkey go...&quot; (p.13).<br />It would be difficult to argue against the orthodoxy of this wonderful poem, a poem that describes the human dilemma so well, since Hakuin  (1686-1769), one of Japan's greatest Zen Masters, actually painted a picture of such a scene and inscribed the following poem on it:<br />&quot;The monkey is reaching for the moon in the water / Until death overtakes him he'll never give up. / If he'd let go the branch and disappear in the deep pool / The whole world would shine in dazzling pureness&quot; (Sasaki, 'The Zen Koan,' page 132).<br />Clearly both of these writers were in total agreement about the nature of the human dilemma, and it would not be too difficult to find many other parallels.  <br />I think Walker has given us a wonderful book, and I doubt very much  that its residue of unorthodoxy will bother those readers for whom the book is intended.  In fact it seems to me that its brilliant  development of certain perfectly orthodox ideas more than makes up for whatever elements of religious Taoism it may contain.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R1EA2V2LRTIPHG	0940322668	279279018	The Anatomy of Melancholy (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	184	202	N	N	&quot;A rhapsody of rags.&quot;	Don't be misled by the title of this book, nor by what others may have told you about it. In the first place, it isn't so much a book about 'Melancholy' (or abnormal psychology, or depression, or whatever) as a book about Burton himself and, ultimately, about humankind. Secondly, it isn't so much a book for students of the history of English prose, as one for lovers of language who joy in the strong taste of English when it was at its most masculine and vigorous. Finally, it isn't so much a book for those interested in the renaissance, as for those interested in life. <br />Burton is not a writer for fops and milquetoasts. He was a crusty old devil who used to go down to the river to listen to the bargemen cursing so that he could keep in touch with the true tongue of his race. Sometimes I think he might have been better off as the swashbuckling Captain of a pirate ship. But somehow he ended up as a scholar, and instead of watching the ocean satisfyingly swallowing up his victims, he himself became an ocean of learning swallowing up whole libraries. His book, in consequence, although it may have begun as a mere 'medical treatise,' soon exploded beyond its bounds to become, in the words of one of his editors, &quot;a grand literary entertainment, as well as a rich mine of miscellaneous learning.&quot;<br />Of his own book he has this to say : &quot;... a rhapsody of rags gathered together from several dung-hills, excrements of authors, toys and fopperies confusedly tumbled out, without art, invention, judgement, wit, learning, harsh, raw, rude, phantastical, absurd, insolent, indiscreet, ill-composed, indigested, vain, scurrile, idle, dull, and dry; I confess all...&quot; But don't believe him, he's in one of his irascible moods and exaggerating. In fact it's a marvelous book.<br />Here's a bit more of the crusty Burton I love; it's on his fellow scholars : &quot;Heretofore learning was graced by judicious scholars, but now noble sciences are vilified by base and illiterate scribblers.&quot; <br />And here is Burton warming to the subject of contemporary theologians : &quot;Theologasters, if they can but pay ... proceed to the very highest degrees. Hence it comes that such a pack of vile buffoons, ignoramuses wandering in the twilight of learning, ghosts of clergymen, itinerant quacks, dolts, clods, asses, mere cattle, intrude with unwashed feet upon the sacred precincts of Theology, bringing with them nothing save brazen impudence, and some hackneyed quillets and scholastic trifles not good enough for a crowd at a street corner.&quot;<br />Finally a passage I can't resist quoting which shows something of Burton's prose at its best, though I leave you to guess the subject: &quot;... with this tempest of contention the serenity of charity is overclouded, and there be too many spirits conjured up already in this kind in all sciences, and more than we can tell how to lay, which do so furiously rage, and keep such a racket, that as Fabius said, &quot;It had been much better for some of them to have been born dumb, and altogether illiterate, than so far to dote to their own destruction.&quot;<br />To fully appreciate these quotations you would have to see them in context, and I'm conscious of having touched on only one of his many moods and aspects. But a taste for Burton isn't difficult to acquire. He's a mine of curious learning. When in full stride he can be very funny, and it's easy to share his feelings as he often seems to be describing, not so much his own world as today's. <br />But he does demand stamina. His prose overwhelms and washes over us like a huge tsunami, and for that reason he's probably best taken in small doses. If you are unfamiliar with his work and were to approach him with that in mind, you might find that (as is the case with Montaigne, a very different writer) you had discovered not so much a book as a companion for life.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	R3GGRS5QTT7HIC	0679748199	79113792	Voltaire's Bastards: The Dictatorship of Reason in the West	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Siding with what is human.	For as long as I can remember, pretty well every serious book that I have read, books from many different areas and often by outstanding scholars, has reached the conclusion that the world is headed for catastrophe because it is fundamentally in error about so many things.    And now Saul comes along to make matters even worse by offering a mass  of evidence that serves to confirm the truth of what all of those other writers were saying.  <br />And he's certainly right about the ideology of the supremacy of Reason having  assumed the form of a ruthless and intolerant Dictatorship.  The signs  of this are everywhere  in evidence, and only someone very naive could believe otherwise.<br />One of my favorite writers is Montaigne, and I think that what makes  Montaigne so important and valuable, especially to us today, is that he was characterized above all, not merely by reason, which is common enough, but by a REASONABLE, AND NOT EXCESSIVE, USE OF REASON.  In other words, he knew that reason had its limits, that it was a tool limited in its applicability and useful only for certain purposes, and he had the good sense to know when we should stop.<br />There is in Montaigne a sanity, a balance, an affability, and a modesty and tolerance that I've found in no other European thinker, and that reminds one more of the Chinese sage. But instead of fastening on the truly civilized pattern established by Montaigne, Europe instead chose Descartes, Apostle of the Excessive Use of Reason, with the massive and depressing consequences Saul so eloquently describes.<br />The Cartesian ideology of Reason fueled and continues to fuel the relentless Juggernaut of Reason now underway that threatens to end up crushing everything beneath its wheels.  Montaigne would have been appalled. He stood for something more human, as does Saul.	2001-06-28
US	50869571	RSJM5CTHPLNEM	0520082877	879068854	A Companion to The Cantos of Ezra Pound	Books	5	58	59	N	N	An indispensable key to unlocking many mysteries.	A COMPANION TO THE CANTOS OF EZRA POUND.  By Carroll F. Terrell. 791 pp.  (Published in Cooperation with The National Poetry Foundation, University of Maine at Orono, Maine).  Berkeley : University of California Press, First Paperback Printing 1993 (1980).   ISBN 0-520-08287-7<br />In his Preface, Terrell tells us that &quot;the Companion was conceived to be the logical step&quot; between 'The Annotated Index to the Cantos of Ezra Pound' by John Hamilton Edwards and William W. Vasse (1957) &quot;and the definitive variorum edition of 'The Cantos' which would be the function of the future&quot; (p.x).  Originally published in two volumes, with 4,722 numbered glosses in Volume I and 5,649 glosses in Volume II, the 10,421 glosses have been conveniently brought together in the present 1-volume paperback edition.  These glosses include  translations from eight languages, identification of all proper names  and works, Pound's literary and historical allusions, and so on. The  text is based on the 1975 edition of 'The Cantos' published by New Directions and Faber.<br />Terrell also points out that, since 'The Cantos' is such  a difficult poem, there is a very real need for it to &quot;be made more easily comprehensible to a sizable audience of students and professors as well as critics&quot; (p.ix).  Hence the Companion &quot;is not ... for Pound scholars who do not need it.  It is ... a handbook for new students of 'The Cantos' who need it badly.  Therefore it is not designed as a complete compendium of present knowledge about 'The Cantos,' with exegeses and analyses of the text; such a 10-volume work must be left to the future....The book is designed for the  beginner so as to (1) answer his first and most immediate questions;  (2) tell him where to go next for exegesis and comment; (3) tell him where to go to find the sources EP used&quot; (p.x).<br />The Companion contains glosses on Cantos 1-16, Cantos 17-30, XI New Cantos, Leopoldine Cantos, The China Cantos, The Adams Cantos, The  Pisan Cantos, Rock-Drill Cantos, Thrones, The Coke Cantos, Drafts and Fragments.  The glosses range in length from a single line to several paragraphs, and many of them are very full.  Each section is preceded with a short list covering Sources, Background, and Exegeses.<br />Terrell's own view of the poem, as he admits, has to a certain extent influenced his glosses.  He tells us that, for him : &quot;'The Cantos' is a great religious poem .... an account of man's progress from the darkness of hell to the light of paradise.  Thus it is a revelation of how divinity is manifested in the universe...&quot; (p.viii).  <br />But although the major import of the poem can be stated simply, the fact of Pound having &quot;opted for a musical thematic structure rather than the more traditional historical or narrative structure ... and the extreme concentration of his piths and gists [has made] the text difficult to adjust to &quot; (p.viii).  Hence the need of the reader for extensive  glosses.  <br />In a book of this nature, it would of course be impossible to satisfy everyone.  Some readers will probably wish that certain glosses had been fuller, others less extensive, and yet others will probably go  hunting for glosses which aren't there.  Terrell has tried to strike a balance between what he felt might and might not be of use  to the kind of reader the book is aimed at, and on the whole seems to have done an excellent job.<br />Besides the glosses on Cantos 1-117, the book also contains three  Indexes : 1. an alphabetized Index to The Cantos; 2. an Index to Foreign Words and Phrases in Roman Alphabet; 3. an Index to Words and Phrases in Greek; 4. an Index to Chinese Characters.  It appears that Pound used only about 300 different Chinese Characters in 'The Cantos,' not too large a number for the keen student to learn.<br />In Terrell's Index the Chinese Characters are printed, unfortunately,  in a rather small font, and also (at least in my copy) are very poorly printed.  This is the only part of the book which might have been much  better, since beginners need to see large bold printed forms in which  the structure of complex characters can be easily discerned, and not  tiny weak faint smudges in which some of the strokes don't show up  at all.  <br />Happily, Terrell has thoughtfully provided Mathews numbers for all of the Characters, and readers with access to the easily available (and excellent) 'Mathews Chinese-English Dictionary' will quickly be  able to locate clearly printed forms along with their definitions.<br />This book is a heavy volume, well-printed (except for the Chinese) in a small clear font in  double columns on strong high-quality paper, and is bound in a sturdy wrapper.  Although not stitched, it has one of those flexible glued  spines that don't crack on opening, and seems designed to stand up to the heavy use a reference work of this kind can get. <br />Some of its readers will no doubt have quibbles, others will fail to realize the staggering amount of work that goes into writing a book of this kind, but all students of 'The Cantos' owe a huge debt of gratitude to Terrell for having provided them with an indispensable key to unlocking some of the many mysteries this beautiful but obscure poem holds.	2001-06-27
US	50869571	R2RNKSF4NDZ6M9	0192800027	17776103	The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Proverbs (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Over 1000 Major Proverbs with illustrative quotations.	THE CONCISE OXFORD DICTIONARY OF PROVERBS.  Edited by John Simpson. with the assistance of Jennifer Speake.  Second Edition.  316 pp. Oxford &amp; New York : 1992.  ISBN 0-19-866177-0 (hbk.)<br />Although we may think of the proverb as a thing of the past, and tend to associate it with what we naively suppose were 'simpler' rustic folks, the editors assure us that this is far from the case.  New proverbs are continually being created, and the modern computer industry, economics; aeronautics, and even show business  have all enriched language with their own contributions : 'Garbage in, garbage out;' 'There's no such thing as a free lunch;' 'If anything can go wrong, it will;' 'The best things in life are free;' etc.<br />The present book is a collection of over 1000, and every major proverb in use today is included, with explanations of its meanings and use _whenever they are obscure_.  What this last means, of course, is that the editors felt no need to explain the meaning of a proverb when the  meaning ought to be perfectly obvious to the native speaker of English.<br />Instead of this, what we have been given are numerous illustrative quotations, all precisely referenced and dated, which show how the proverb has been used down through the ages.  Actual quotations are given from a wide range of sources, and dating from as early as the thirteenth century through to today.  <br />To some, and especially to readers of pre-modern literature, these quotations will seem a far more valuable use of space than a mere restatement of the meaning of a proverb in modern prose.  Each proverb is followed by six or seven of these illustrative examples which give full contexts and can be fascinating to browse through.<br />Another important feature of the book is its new thematic index which  allows the reader to quickly find quotations on a wide range of  subjects : idleness, bee-keeping, stupidity, stress, disappointment, etc.<br />The book is extremely well-printed in double columns on excellent paper, but is neither stitched nor cloth-covered as it deserves,  having instead a glued spine and paper-covered boards, such being the price, I guess, of progress.<br />All in all, this is an excellent book, but don't go to it expecting it to tell you what your own native intelligence should be able to figure out for itself.  It has set itself a higher and far more interesting and useful goal, and seems to me to have succeeded  admirably.	2001-06-27
US	50869571	R1DM26JDF7LAS4	0226772322	177018799	Martin Heidegger	Books	5	74	81	N	N	The luminous thoughts of Martin Heidegger.	MARTIN HEIDEGGER.  By George Steiner.  173 pp.  University of Chicago Press edition, 1987 (1978).  ISBN 0-226-77232-2 (pbk.)<br />The presence of Heidegger is so insistent that sooner or later we  want to find out more about this controversial figure.  But where to start?  His most famous work, 'Being and Time,' is notoriously unapproachable by the unprepared, but where can we find a really good Introduction to the man and his main ideas?  After tackling several well-known Introductory studies, and quickly abandoning them as just too dry and boring, I finally discovered George Steiner's  short study.  <br />What a joy it was to read Steiner!  I'm one of those compulsive scribblers who always read pencil in hand, ready to annotate  significant and memorable passages to make sure I'll be able to find  them when I want to return and re-read them, and after a single reading pretty well every page was marked.  <br />Steiner has a beautifully lucid style, and he writes with real passion. After a 28-page Introduction, 'Heidegger: In 1991,' and an 'In Place of a Foreword,' three Chapters follow : 1. 'Some Basic Terms;' 2. 'Being and Time;' 3. 'The Presence of Heidegger.'  The book is rounded out with a Biographical Note, a useful Short Bibliography, and an Index.<br />Steiner throughout shows great skill in actually making us feel the movements of Heidegger's thought as it flows along totally unexpected and amazing paths, and one is left wondering what heights Western  thought might have risen to if it had stayed true to its original impulse.  It would seem that, for Heidegger, thought was not mere ratiocination, but something more akin to devotion, a devotion we come to share.<br />Here are a few lines from the book : &quot;We are trying &quot;to listen to the voice of Being&quot;&quot; (p.32);  &quot;Art is not, as in Plato and Cartesian realism, an imitation of the real.  It is the more real&quot; (p.136);  &quot;Creation _should be_ custody; a human construction _shouldbe_ the elicitation and housing of the great springs of being&quot; (p.136); &quot;Man has labored and thought not with but against the grain of things.  He  has not given lodging to the forces and creatures of the natural world but made them homeless&quot; (p.136); &quot;... the Heideggerian asker lays himself open to that which is being questioned and becomes ... the permeable space of its disclosure&quot; (p.55); &quot;The earth, says Heidegger, must once again be made a _Spielraum_, literally, a space in which to play&quot; (p.149).  These are truly luminous thoughts, and the book is full of them.<br />I'm not sure what specialists may think of this book, but as a non-specialist I found it a very exciting book to read, and one that left me eager to know more.  Steiner's study strikes me  as what must be one of the best possible introductions to Heidegger  for the ordinary reader.	2001-06-27
US	50869571	R3JVIV49LVP7PE	0812210379	217425970	Maxims and Reflections (Ricordi)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Surviving the Rat-Race.	On the surface of it, you wouldn't think a book such as this had much to offer us today, but you would be wrong. It belongs to a class of  books which teach what I call the art of 'Crooked Wisdom,' but which could be more simply thought of as the art of survival in a far from perfect world.    Other books of this kind are Machiavelli's 'The Prince,' Balthasar Gracian's 'The Art of Worldly Wisdom,' and the 'Maxims of La Rochefoucauld.'  Although the first of these may be a little too specialized to suit the needs of the ordinary person today, anyone who doesn't know one or two of the others, unless they happen to be exceptionally astute, is asking for trouble.    These books are both highly realistic and extremely practical, for they show us, not man as he is supposed to be and as we would like him to be, but man as he is with all his selfishness, stupidity, ambition, arrogance, malice, laziness and other imperfections, and they teach the art of how, not merely to survive, but even to thrive in the midst of  our far from perfect fellow men and women.     'Crooked Wisdom,' then, should not be understood as the product of a crooked mind, but as the clear-sighted wisdom one needs to survive in a world teeming with such minds, a world involved in \\"the sordid struggle of self-interests, and in the scramble for power, position, and  influence.\\"     Another way of looking at 'Crooked Wisdom' is to see it as the art of avoiding dumb mistakes, an art based on a deep insight into human nature and into the quirks and foibles of our fellow men and women.    I first read Guicciardini many years ago, and on re-reading him was surprised to realize how many of his maxims had lodged themselves  firmly in my mind, how I continued to act on them, and how they had served me very well indeed.  I just wish I had remembered many more.    Here are a few brief examples of Guiccardini's counsel: \\"Small beginnings, hardly worthy of notice, are often the cause of great misfortune or success.\\"\\"It is easy to ruin a good position, but very hard to acquire it.\\"  \\"It is prudent not to talk about one's own affairs except when necessary.\\"  \\"If you have offended a man, do not trust or confide in him....\\"  \\"The weakest always get it in the neck.\\"  \\"Be careful in your conversations never to say anything which, if repeated, might displease others.\\"  \\"A ducat in your purse does you more credit than ten you have spent.\\"  \\"Deception is very useful,  whereas your frankness tends to profit others rather than you.\\"    Taken out of context, these fragments hardly do justice to Guiccardini, and suggest little of the importance he will come to have for anyone  who takes the trouble to read his fascinating book.  It was written to help his contemporaries survive their version of the rat-race and even come out on top, and since human nature hasn't changed it still has the power to do the same thing for us.  All we need do is read it.	2001-06-27
US	50869571	RFWKUP564ONWS	0201570092	524997147	China: Empire Of Living Symbols	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A superb beautifully illustrated introduction to China.	CHINA : Empire of Living Symbols.  By Cecilia Lindqvist.  Translated from the Swedish by Joan Tate.  424 pp.  New York : Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1991 (1989).  ISBN 0-201-57009-2 (hbk.)<br />Although Cecilia Lindqvist is a professional scholar of Chinese and was in fact a pupil of Bernhard Karlgren, one of the greatest sinologists of the 20th century, she is one of those rare scholars who, instead of devoting herself exclusively to academic publications, has not been afraid to produce a book designed for the general reader.<br />Her book, though founded in a specialist knowledge of both Chinese and China, where she lived for many years, is written with a light and engaging touch, is magnificently illustrated with numerous photographs, both black-and-white and color, line drawings, maps, Chinese characters, etc., and is so beautifully produced that it could be read or browsed with interest by anyone.<br />Her book attempts so many things, and succeeds so well in them all, that it would be difficult to overpraise it.  It introduces us to the pictorial element of the Chinese script in a more engaging way than has ever been done before, and becomes in fact a painless way of acquiring a vocabulary of the basic building blocks which go to make  up Chinese characters.  <br />It relates these basic pictograms to a wide range of topics in Chinese cultural history in a sumptuously illustrated series of chapters dealing with - Oracle Bones and Bronzes; Man, Mankind; Water and Mountains ;  Wild Animals; Domestic Animals; Carts, Roads, and Boats; Farming; Wine and Jars; Hemp and Silk; Bamboo and Tree; Tools and Weapons; Roofs and Houses; Books and Musical Instruments; Numbers and Other Abstract Characters.  It also includes a chapter on Meaning and Sound which traces the development of Chinese writing from the early pictographs through to phonetic compounds.<br />The book is rounded out with a gallery of superb color photographs; a section on Character Stroke Order; a really excellent Bibliography of both Western and Chinese books (which unfortunately gives only  the pinyin and lacks the sinographs for the latter); a table of  Dynasties and Periods; and a full Index.<br />The book is a curious size, having been made 8.5 by 8.5 inches to accomodate its many photographs, is bound in full linen, stitched, and beautifully printed on a very strong smooth ivory-tinted paper.<br />Anyone who, after reading the book, would like to learn more about China's culture or writing system, will find that the fully annotated Bibliography with its extensive list of interesting works  for further reading will provide many leads.  These range from general books on the science and civilization of China up to such things as specialist Chinese dictionaries of the ancient bone and bronze forms of the characters.<br />Lindqvist's love of China, its people, language, and culture shines through on every page, and her book is clearly a labor of love.  It can be recommended without reservation as a marvelous introduction to one of the richest and most fascinating cultures on earth.	2001-06-27
US	50869571	R3CQXTV2W95TU8	0674530802	991127990	The Life of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	39	42	N	N	A juicy mammoth of a book!	THE LIFE OF EMILY DICKINSON.  By Richard B. Sewall.  821 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts : Harvard University Press.  First Harvard University Press paperback edition, 1994.  ISBN 0-674-53080-2<br />Although I haven't yet finished reading Richard B. Sewalls mammoth saga, I fully expect to one day, and I've certainly read enough to realize that this is the single most important biography of Dickinson that we have, and unlikely ever to be bettered. <br />One thing that strikes me is Sewall's wonderful knack of bringing the various actors in this strange domestic drama vividly before us, and making them real and believable.  The marvelous collection of illustrations in this book also help make the world of Amherst real to us.  <br />The book is comprehensive and a mine of interesting facts about anything and everything to do with Emily Dickinson, and is happily free of the unctuousness of Thomas H. Johnson's earlier biography.  Besides being richly illustrated with an abundance of photographs, it is also well-written, incredibly well-researched, and  is a pleasure to read, being well-printed on excellent smooth paper.  <br />In other words, Sewall's prize-winning biography is essential reading for all students of Dickinson, and is no doubt destined for a wide readership in its compact new paperback format which  conveniently  gives us Sewall's two volumes in one.	2001-06-25
US	50869571	R172NG413P1F4O	0300000138	772323116	Chinese Civilization and Bureaucracy (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A remarkable book for anyone interested in China.	CHINESE CIVILIZATION AND BUREAUCRACY : Variations on a Theme.  By Etienne Balazs.  Translated by H. M. Wright.  Edited by Arthur F. Wright.  309 pp.  New Haven and London : Yale University Press, Sixth Printing 1972 (1964).  ISBN 0-300-00013-8 (pbk.)<br />Arthur F. Wright, in his informative Introduction to this extremely interesting collection of Essays by the Hungarian sinologist Etienne  Balazs (1905-1963), tells us that at the time of his death Balazs was a figure of major importance in the international community of Chinese scholars.<br />Balazs was a very special kind of scholar.  His study of the economic history of the T'ang Period (+ 618-906) &quot;remains an astonishing achievement - the Pioneer Western work on Chinese economic history written before this field had begun to be developed by Chinese and Japanese scholars,&quot; while the essays collected in the present volume remain essential reading for any student of China.<br />These essays explore major themes in Chinese history : the role of the scholar official class; the structure of Chinese institutions as they were shaped by these elite bureaucrats and modified as circumstances changed; the distinctive character of Chinese commercial and industrial life; the varieties of protest and dissent, etc.  But because Balazs saw the Chinese past, not as mere object of scholarly curiosity, but as &quot;a repository of relevant human experience,&quot; his essays have a great deal to teach all of us.<br />Balazs had seen something that very few wish to see - the staggering importance to us of the longest continuous living civilization on the planet, wealthy with an abundance of cultural treasures, and creator of  the most successful and long-lasting bureaucracy in history.  We are told that he hoped the isolation of Chinese studies would end, and that &quot;knowledge of the Chinese experience would become accepted as NECESSARY FOR ALL TYPES OF SCHOLARLY INQUIRY&quot; (p.xiii, my capitals).<br />This is a striking notion, but the rightness of Balazs' position will be blindingly obvious to those who, while knowledgeable about China, have peered into the mist in which Western thought gropes and staggers about in its Cartesian confusion.  Few, however, will be prepared to accept, let alone act, on Balazs' premise.<br />The shift that Balazs wished for could only come about &quot;if Chinese studies became more vigorous, more creative, and more attuned to the major intellectual concerns of the modern world&quot; (p.xiii).  Sadly, from his Sorbonne Chair for the economy and society of ancient China,  he saw no sign of this happening, and he was highly critical of  the preference of sinology for trivial pursuits - &quot;its lack  of concern for basic problems of social and cultural history, its penchant for marginalia, which he described as &quot;disquisitions on philological  trifles, expensive trips in abstruse provinces, bickering about the restitutions of the names of unknown persons,&quot; and the trendy and &quot;immoderate use of academic highbrow jargon&quot;&quot; (p.xiii).  <br />Anyone familiar with Chinese studies will realize the truth of what Balazs was saying, and to his list might be added sinology's current obsession with the restitution of mere puffs of air - long-vanished spoken sounds which could never be recovered with certainty, but whose treatment can be made to look impressively 'scientific' - and  its related campaign to devalue the imperishable bronze-cast and stone-cut forms of the Chinese written character. <br />Sadly, though perhaps predictably, no-one was listening, and academics of all stripes continue to merrily dance their way into an ever-deeper obscurity and irrelevance, concerned only with the approval of a small clique of fellow specialists, while contributing to the society that pays their salaries an ever-increasing flood of superfluous knowledge, and an ever-dwindling quota of truth.<br />Balazs contribution is very, very different, has afar higher proportion of what might be called 'real content,' and his essays can be studied with profit by anyone, whether specialist or layman.  The collection is made up of sixteen essays, divided into three Parts :  <br />PART I : INSTITUTIONS - 1. Significant Aspects of Chinese Society; 2. China as a Permanently Bureaucratic Society; 3. Chinese Feudalism; 4. The Birth of Capitalism in China; 5. Fairs in China; 6. Chinese Towns; 7. Marco Polo in the Capital of China; 8. Evolution of Landownership in Fourth- and Fifth-Century China; 9. Landownership on China from the Fourth to the Fourteenth Century.<br />PART II : HISTORY - 10. History as a Guide to Bureaucratic Practice; 11. Tradition and Revolution in China.<br />PART III : THOUGHT - 12. Two Songs by Ts'ao Ts'ao; 13. Political Philosophy and Social Crisis at the End of the Han Dynasty; 14.  Nihilistic Thought or Mystical Escapism; 15. The First Chinese Materialist; 16. A Forerunner of Wang An-shih.<br />Balazs' essays are gems, and have that special ability found only in the very best writing, the ability to provide us with a whole new way of seeing.  They create a framework in terms of which much that had little meaning for us before becomes so meaningful as to influence one's whole way of thinking.<br />One of my favorites is Balazs' 'China as a Permanently Bureaucratic Society,' an essay that helps us, among other things, to see  Confucianism and Marxism as, in a sense, twin ideologies, and China's current Communist Party as the traditional Mandarinate decked out in new, and somewhat less attractive, clothes.<br />But I can't really do justice to Balazs' thought here.  My advice  would be to get hold of a copy of this book, because it will probably turn out to be one of the most rewarding and valuable books on China that you will ever read.  Balazs was one of the last real sinologists, and nothing of this quality is ever likely to happen again.	2001-06-25
US	50869571	R3K00OBZFLYUTC	0720618509	876733854	Confucian Analects	Books	5	9	10	N	N	EP's tr. has always found and will continue to find readers.	One of the worst problems in our world is that it is infested with 'experts,' 'experts' of every variety from the diploma-wavers through to the self-appointed. The main aim of these 'experts' seems to have been to convince the world that only 'experts' have a right to say anything about anything. In this they have been extremely successful, and the mature, intelligent, and well-informed adult who may have a lot to contribute, but who is not an 'expert,' has been pretty well reduced to silence. <br />His mouth has been shut. He has been convinced that his own God-given brain is worthless. Even if there's something he'd like to say, he or she is afraid of being shouted down by the 'experts' and their groupies. A reading of the great Chinese thinkers would soon convince anyone of how dangerous and damaging to society 'experts' can be, but most of us don't read the Chinese. We have been conditioned to think of them as alien and to forget that they were human like us.<br />Ezra Pound may have been a bit crazy in some ways (who isn't?), and his Chinese readings have come in for a lot of flak, but anyone who, like Pound, loved Asian thought and set out to bring it to a West that is desperately in need of it, certainly deserves our gratitude whether they be 'expert' or non-expert. <br />Nobody knows how much Chinese Pound knew anyway. He certainly knew some. And anyone who knows anything at all about the complexities of Classical Chinese realizes that all readings or translations from that language, whether by professional linguists or enthusiasts such as Pound, must always be personal. There are just too many ways of validly interpreting a given line. <br />And as Burton Watson, who is one of the USA's foremost scholars of Ancient Chinese has pointed out in his 'Complete Works of Chuang Tzu,' since there can be no definitive interpretation neither can there be any such thing as a definitive translation. Watson, incidentally, was perfectly happy to approve Thomas Merton's readings of another great Chinese thinker, Chuang Tzu, even though Merton knew no Chinese at all. He feels that the more translations, whether expert or non- expert (when done with sincerity and love), the better. But experts such as Burton Watson, sadly, are rare, perhaps because they are the only true experts.<br />My own copy of Pound's 'Confucius' was purchased many years ago. It's very well-thumbed and heavily annotated, and I often return to it. I've also studied Arthur Waley's more exact translation carefully, and a few others. But the Confucian lines that stick in my mind always seem to be those of Pound, lines such as: &quot;If the root be in confusion, nothing will be well governed&quot; (page 33).<br />The &quot;root&quot; today is certainly &quot;in confusion.&quot; And those who dismiss Pound on the basis of a few howlers are simply adding to the confusion. To let you in on a secret, there are many howlers - up to and including the loss of whole lines - in the translations of even reputable and well-known scholars of Chinese (though I've never found any in Burton Watson).<br />My advice would be to ignore the gripers, most of whom don't have direct access to the Chinese text anyway, and to read Pound's version of Confucius. He was a literary genius and got it right most of the time, and you'd learn a great deal from it. <br />Pound's 'Confucius' has always found and will continue to find readers. I think it's because, as Confucius says: &quot;Those who know aren't up to those who love...&quot; (page 216).	2001-06-25
US	50869571	R2Z9RVZGF6IH55	0231086717	938508282	Early Chinese Literature	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Interesting background reading and an excellent survey.	EARLY CHINESE LITERATURE.  By Burton Watson. 304 pp.  New York : Columbia University Press, 1962.  ISBN 0-231-08671-7 (pbk.)<br />Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar  and as a fine translator.  Unlike certain others, he wears his  scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden his books with extraneous matter.  His many translations and studies of Chinese and Japanese Literature  are of uniformly high quality, and are well worth owning as they are books one often to returns to.<br />In the present book he has given us an account of Chinese writing from the time of the Chou Dynasty (1100 B.C. to 249 B.C) to the middle of the Latter Han (A.D. 25 to A.D. 220).  The important works of this period are described with many illustrative quotations.<br />After a brief but typically excellent Introduction, three main sections follow : HISTORY; PHILOSOPHY; POETRY.  Each section includes a selected list of translations, and the book is rounded out with a Chronology and a detailed Index.<br />Of especial interest in the Introduction is Watson's discussion of Classical Chinese, where, after a few remarks on the nature of the language, he makes a point of telling us that &quot;the reader should perhaps be reminded that when he reads these early Chinese works in translation, he is at many points reading not an incontovertible rendering of the meaning of the original, but only one of a variety of tentative interpretations&quot; (p.12).  This is a useful reminder for those laboring under the misapprehension that there can be such a thing as a  'definitive' translation from Classical Chinese.<br />Watson covers a wide range of topics in his book.  HISTORY  gives us his discussions of, and translations from, The Book of Documents, The Spring and Autumn Annals, The Tso chuan, The Kuo yu or Conversations from the States; The Chan-kuo ts'e or Intrigues of the Warring States; and several other works.<br />PHILOSOPHY takes up Confucian Writings such The Lun yuor  Analects, The Meng Tzu or Mencius, the Hsun tzu, etc.; Ritual Texts such as The Li chi or Book of Rites, The Hsiao Ching or Classic of Filial Piety (in style and contents similar to the Li chi though transmitted separately), The I ching or Book of Changes, etc.  Then follow  the Mohist Writings, the Taoist Writings (The Lao tzu, The Chuang Tzu, The Lieh Tzu), Legalist Writings (Book of Lord Shang, The Han Fei  Tzu) and Eclectic Writings (The Kuan Tzu).<br />POETRY offers Watson's interesting discussions of, and fine translations from, The Book of Songs, The Ch'u Tz'u or Elegies of  Ch'u, The Han Fu, and a few selected Songs and Ballads.<br />Watson's book is civilized, informative, well-written, and richly  illustrated, and can be strongly recommended as an excellent survey of  a fascinating period, and as interesting background reading for both  students and the general reader.	2001-06-25
US	50869571	R2MD70EV9HBOG1	014044095X	717798241	Maxims (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	131	145	N	N	The 'Maxims' as a Classic of 'Crooked Wisdom.'	The famous Indian classic, Kautilya's 'Arthasastra,' a treatise which deals with the attainment of worldly ends, distinguishes between two kinds of wisdom - Straight and Crooked.   To the former belong (to use Western examples) such works as 'The Imitation of Christ' by Thomas a Kempis, a work which teaches how,  ideally, the virtuous should live, while overlooking the fact that  often it would be extremely impractical and socially disastrous to  live in such a way.<br />The second class of books, those which teach the art of 'Crooked  Wisdom,' is exemplified in the East by Kautilya's 'Arthasastra' itself,  and in the West by such works as Balthasar Gracian's 'The Art of  Worldly Wisdom,' Francesco Guicciardini's 'Maxims and Reflections  of a Renaissance Statesman' (Ricordi), and by the present collection  of Maxims by La Rochefoucauld.<br />These books are both highly realistic and extremely practical, for they depict, not man as he is supposed to be, but man as he is  with all his selfishness, stupidity, ambition, arrogance, malice, laziness and other imperfections, and they teach the art of how, not merely to survive, but even to thrive in the midst of our far from perfect fellow men and women.  And, certainly in the case of La Rochefoucauld, this teaching is done with great precision and wit.<br />'Crooked Wisdom,' then, should not be understood as the product of a crooked mind, but as the clear-sighted wisdom one needs to survive in a world teeming with such minds, a world, as Tancock says,  involved in a &quot;sordid struggle of self-interests, a scramble for power, position, and influence in which the foulest motives and methods [are] decked with labels such as duty, honor, patriotism, and glory.&quot;<br />La Rochefoucauld seems to provoke two very different kinds of  reaction.  Fully paid up members of the rose-tinted spectacles club,  are shocked and horrified by his portrait of man and society, and they tend to dislike both the man and his book.  <br />The more realistically inclined, however, will savor his bite and wit  and will readily acknowledge the self-evident truth of much if not all  of what he says.  The man was undoubtedly brilliant, not only in terms  of the many profound insights he gave us - particularly those having to do with 'amour propre' or self-love - but also in terms of the  skill with which he translated those insights into pithy and memorable maxims.  <br />Tancock defines the maxim as the expression of &quot;some thought about  human motives or behavior in a form containing the maximum of clarity and TRUTH with the minimum of words arranged in the most striking and memorable order&quot; (my caps).  La Rochefoucauld's aim, in short, was simply to tell the truth, and to tell it for our benefit.<br />The maxim as a literary genre was cultivated in his milieu,  and La Rochefoucauld's were polished to a high state of perfection, for they had to satisfy a critical and sophisticated audience.  Seven years were devoted to refining them, during which the circle of his aristocratic friends and fellow habitues of Mmme de Sable's salon  repeatedly offered advice and criticism.  <br />The 'Maxims,' then, although the product of an individual sensibility, also become in a sense the product a collective effort, having emerged from a serious and civilized salon whose interests were psychological, literary, and linguistic.  Anyone who feels  inclined to dismiss them might keep this in mind.<br />I discovered La Rochefoucauld many years ago, and have always been a great admirer of his Maxims.  Once read, they are never forgotten. They have a way of burrowing deeply into the mind, and the fact that they tend to recur in those moments when we are reflecting on life and  mulling over our experiences seems to me a kind of proof of their veracity.<br />One that has always struck me as particularly significant is Maxim 22 : &quot;Philosophy easily triumphs over past ills and ills to come, but present ills triumph over philosophy.&quot;  Or, in the words of the Red Queen : &quot;Jam yesterday, jam tomorrow, but no jam today.&quot; If such truths are not exactly cheering, this in no way detracts from their being true.<br />There is an enormous amount to be learned by the honest and open-minded reader from La Rochefoucauld's 'Maxims,' especially if they also have a sense of humor.  But the 'Happy Days!  Happy Sky!' school, whose main requirement of a writer would seem to be that he should confirm them in their beautiful illusions, would be wiser to look elsewhere for edification.  La Rochefoucauld is not a writer for the faint of heart, nor for those without a sense of humor.	2001-06-24
US	50869571	R337YCCL37SN0H	0671045849	875836457	Pimsleur Language Program:  Chinese Mandarin I	Books	5	25	32	N	N	We Learn Language through the EAR, not the EYE.	PIMSLEUR : CHINESE MANDARIN - I. 2nd Edition. (30 Lessons on Audio Cassettes).   Simon &amp; Schuster Audio, 2000.  ISBN 0671045849<br />Every country in the world is agreed that a knowledge of foreign languages is important.  Every year the world devotes an enormous amount of time, energy, and money to trying to teach its young  people to understand and speak some foreign language or other.<br />In the West, millions of high school and college students are busy desperately trying to learn French, German, and Spanish; in China and Japan they are undergoing the torture of English courses.  But despite the intense effort and enormous resources that are devoted to these studies, the results, as everyone knows, are pitiful.<br />After years of study, students might be able to read simple passages in a foreign language, but usually won't be able to say much beyond such things as - &quot;Good morning.  How are you?&quot;  - and they will be completely baffled when hearing foreigners speak.<br />I've often wondered why no-one ever seems to ask why the teaching of foreign languages is such a catastrophic failure.  Why does it produce so few who become fluent?  I've wondered because the answer is painfully obvious, and can be stated very simply :<br />WE LEARN LANGUAGE THROUGH THE EAR, NOT THE EYE; LANGUAGE CANNOT BE LEARNED THROUGH THE EYE.<br />No child ever learned its own language by studying a book and working out exercises.  We learn our own language through the ear, first by listening to others and then by participating.  That's why we learn it so effortlessly and so well.  Reading is a secondary skill that comes much later.  It has never been the case that the ability to  speak a language required that one be able to read it, and traditionally the Chinese writing system was mastered by very few.<br />If PIMSLEUR is an anagram for SIMPLER U it makes sense, because not  only is the PIMSLEUR method SIMPLER for YOU, its also the ONLY method that has any hope of real success.  Language is primarly an AURAL-ORAL phenomenon, a matter of listening and speaking.  Using these tapes gives you lots of practise in both.  Repeated use will bring a basic fluency that will give you the confidence to start interacting with native speakers of Chinese or French or whatever language you are studying.  And if you have enough opportunities for that you'll soon be on your way to real fluency.<br />These tapes require application but they do work, and it's not only  work but fun.  But what a wonderful idea the PIMSLEUR method is!  I wonder why no one ever seems to have thought  of it before?  After all, if you do think about it, it's the only  method that makes sense.	2001-06-23
US	50869571	R2RZZ4K9N6CP2T	0140446044	303469300	Michel de Montaigne - The Complete Essays (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	168	179	N	N	Montaigne's Reasonable Use of Reason.	MICHEL DE MONTAIGNE - THE COMPLETE ESSAYS.  Translated and Edited  with an Introduction and Notes by M. A. Screech.  lviv + 1284 pp. (Penguin Classics).  London : Penguin Books, 1993 and Reissued. ISBN 0-14-044604-4 (pbk.)<br />Those who discover Montaigne should count themselves very lucky.   There are so many authors competing for our attention today, so many  brilliant and less than brillliant men and women both contemporary  and of the past, so many poets, novelists, philosophers, thinkers of every stripe, that Montaigne's voice can easily get lost in the general racket, like the voice of a single cricket on a noisy summer's night.  <br />But Montaigne's voice is well worth singling out for special attention, like that one cricket whose song is especially musical, because there has never been anyone quite like him, nor anyone who  has produced such a wealth of sensible observations on life and everything that goes to make it up.  <br />We love Montaigne for his humanity, his wisdom, his clear insight into  human nature, his tolerance of our weaknesses and failings, his love  and compassion for all creatures whether man, animal, or plant, his  calm, gentle and amiable voice, his stately and dignified progress as he conducts us  through the vast repository of his mind.  But above all we love him for  his plain good sense.<br />Despite his distance in time, we can open these essays almost anywhere and immediately become engrossed.  Some of what he says, particularly about our weaknesses and failings, may not be particularly welcome to some, though the open-minded will acknowledge its self-evident truth.  Montaigne was  not afraid to speak his mind, and as a man who was interested in almost everything, his observations range from the curious through to the truly profound.<br />At one time we find him, for example, discussing the best sexual position for conception, at others such deep notions as that &quot;in truth we are but nothing&quot; (p.555); &quot;there is aplague on man, the opinion that he knows something&quot; (p.543); thought as the chief source of our  woes (p.514); &quot;in man curiosity is an innate evil&quot; (p.555); &quot;only a fool is bound to his body by fear of death&quot; (p.553); nature needs little to be satisfied&quot; (p.526); there is only change (p.xvii); our absolute need for converse with others (p.421); how &quot;if a ray of  God's light touched us even slightly, it would be everywhere apparent : not only our words but our deeds would bear its lustre and its brightness.  Everything emanating from us would be seen shining with that noble light&quot; (p.493); how man should &quot;lay aside that imaginary kingship over other creatures which is attributed to us&quot; (p.487); how reason is not a special unique gift of human beings, marking us off from the rest of Nature&quot; (p489); of how &quot;we owe justice to men,&quot;  and &quot;gentleness and kindness&quot; to &quot;beasts, which have life and feelings [and] even to trees and plants&quot; (p.488).<br />And so on through manifold topics, both weighty and light, his observations illustrated by stories contemporary and ancient, drawn  not only from his incredibly wide learning, but also from his  experience as man of the world.  <br />The examples I've cited seem to me pitifully inadequate as describing or even suggesting the breadth of his thought - just a few examples selected at random that happen to appeal to me.  Montaigne is too big to capture in a few words. His mind was as capacious as his enormous book, and he had something to say about almost everything.  His is not so much a book as a companion for life.<br />Montaigne as that single special cricket singing away in the forest of learning along with thousands of others, is not only worth singling out because of his vast repertoire of songs, but even more because of the special way he sang them.  What makes him so  important and so valuable, especially to us today, is  that he was characterized above all, not merely by reason, which is common enough, but by a REASONABLE, AND NOT EXCESSIVE, USE OF REASON.   In other words, he knew that reason had its limits, that it was a tool limited in its applicability and useful only for certain purposes, and he had the  good sense to know when we should stop.<br />There is in Montaigne a sanity, a balance, an affability, and a modesty and tolerance that is found in no other European thinker, and that reminds one more of the Chinese sage.  But instead of fastening on the truly civilized pattern established by Montaigne, Europe instead chose Descartes, Apostle of the Excessive Use of Reason, and with what results we know.<br />The Cartesian ideology of Reason fueled and continues to fuel the relentless Juggernaut of Reason now underway that threatens to end up crushing everything beneath its wheels.  Montaigne would have been appalled. He stood for something more human.	2001-06-23
US	50869571	RAAPCSRQW0V3C	0804704864	309636005	The Complete Essays of Montaigne	Books	5	97	107	N	N	Montaigne as a Model of the Reasonable Use of Reason.	Those who discover Montaigne should count themselves very lucky. There are so many authors competing for our attention today, so many brilliant and less than brillliant men and women both contemporary and of the past, so many poets, novelists, philosophers, thinkers of every stripe, that Montaigne's voice can easily get lost in the general racket, like the voice of a single cricket on a noisy summer's night.<br />But Montaigne's voice is well worth singling out for special attention, like that one cricket whose song is especially musical, because there has never been anyone quite like him, nor anyone who has produced such a wealth of sensible observations on life and everything that goes to make it up.<br />We love Montaigne for his humanity, his wisdom, his clear insight into human nature, his tolerance of our weaknesses and failings, his love and compassion for all creatures whether man, animal, or plant, his calm, gentle and amiable voice, his stately and dignified progress as he conducts us through the vast repository of his mind. But above all we love him for his plain good sense.<br />Despite his distance in time, we can open these essays almost anywhere and immediately become engrossed. Some of what he says, particularly about our weaknesses and failings, may not be particularly welcome to some, though the open-minded will acknowledge its self-evident truth. Montaigne was not afraid to speak his mind, and as a man who was interested in almost everything, his observations range from the curious through to the truly profound.<br />At one time we find him, for example, discussing the best sexual position for conception, at others such deep notions as that in fact we are nothing; there is a disease in man, the opinion that he knows something; thought as the chief source of our  woes; in man curiosity is an innate evil; only a fool is bound to his body by fear of death; nature needs little to be satisfied; there is only change; our absolute need for converse withothers; how man should lay aside his imagined superiority; how reason is not a special unique gift of human beings, separating us off from the rest of Nature; of how we owe justice to men, and gentleness and kindness to animals, which like us have life and feelings, and even to trees and plants.<br />And so on through manifold topics, both weighty and light, his observations illustrated by stories contemporary and ancient, drawn not only from his incredibly wide learning, but also from his experience as man of the world.<br />The examples I've cited seem to me pitifully inadequate as describing or even suggesting the breadth of his thought - just a few examples selected at random that happen to appeal to me. Montaigne is too big to capture in a few words. His mind was as capacious as his enormous book, and he had something to say about almost everything. His is not so much a book as a companion for life.<br />Montaigne as that single special cricket singing away in the forest of learning along with thousands of others, is not only worth singling out because of his vast repertoire of songs, but even more because of the special way he sang them. What makes him so important and so valuable, especially to us today, is that he was characterized above all, not merely by reason, which is common enough, but by a REASONABLE, AND NOT EXCESSIVE, USE OF REASON. In other words, he knew that reason had its limits, that it was a tool limited in its applicability and useful only for certain purposes, and he had the good sense to know when we should stop.<br />There is in Montaigne a sanity, a balance, an affability, and a modesty and tolerance that is found in no other European thinker, and that reminds one more of the Taoist sage. But instead of fastening on the truly civilized pattern exemplified by Montaigne, Europe instead chose Descartes, Apostle of the Excessive Use of Reason, and with what results we know.<br />The Cartesian ideology of Reason fueled and continues to fuel the relentless Juggernaut of Reason now underway that threatens to end up crushing everything beneath its wheels. Montaigne would have been appalled. He stood for something more human.	2001-06-23
US	50869571	R2AE75LFLNFTXA	0743507711	515614575	Chinese (Mandarin)	Books	5	9	22	N	Y	We Learn Language through the EAR, not the EYE.	PIMSLEUR : Quick &amp; Simple CHINESE MANDARIN. (Eight Audio Lessons on 4 Cassettes).  Simon &amp; Schuster Audio, 2001.  ISBN 07435-0771-1.<br />Every country in the world is agreed that a knowledge of foreign languages is important.  Every year the world devotes an enormous amount of time, energy, and money to trying to teach its young  people to understand and speak some foreign language or other.<br />In the West, millions of high school and college students are busy desperately trying to learn French, German, and Spanish; in China and Japan they are undergoing the torture of English courses.  But despite the intense effort and enormous resources that are devoted to these studies, the results, as everyone knows, are pitiful.<br />After years of study, students might be able to read simple passages in a foreign language, but usually won't be able to say much beyond such things as - &quot;Good morning.  How are you?&quot;  - and they will be completely baffled when hearing foreigners speak.<br />I've often wondered why no-one ever seems to ask why the teaching of foreign languages is such a catastrophic failure.  Why does it produce so few who become fluent?  I've wondered because the answer is painfully obvious, and can be stated very simply :<br />WE LEARN LANGUAGE THROUGH THE EAR, NOT THE EYE; LANGUAGE CANNOT BE LEARNED THROUGH THE EYE.<br />No child ever learned its own language by studying a book and working out exercises.  We learn our own language through the ear, first by listening to others and then by participating.  That's why we learn it so effortlessly and so well.  Reading is a secondary skill that comes much later.<br />If PIMSLEUR is an anagram for SIMPLER U it makes sense, because not  only is the PIMSLEUR method SIMPLER for YOU, its also the ONLY method that has any hope of real success.  Language is primarly an AURAL-ORAL phenomenon, a matter of listening and speaking.  Using these tapes gives you lots of practise in both.  Repeated use will bring a basic fluency that will give you the confidence to start interacting with native speakers of Chinese or French or whatever language you are studying.  And if you have enough opportunities for that you'll soon be on your way to real fluency.<br />These tapes require application but they do work, and after finishing them you'll almost certainly want to get the Comprehensive Program, because it's not only work but fun.  But what a wonderful idea the PIMSLEUR method is!  I wonder why no one ever seems to have thought  of it before?  After all, if you do think about it, it's the only  method that makes sense.	2001-06-23
US	50869571	R1TQBJWH0H47MD	0674548280	931205769	The Manuscript Books of Emily Dickinson (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	105	105	N	N	A jewel for the collection of all Dickinson enthusiasts.	THE MANUSCRIPT BOOKS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by R. W. Franklin.  2 vols, 1442 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts and London, England: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1981. ISBN 0-674-54828-0 (hbk.) <br />What do we mean when we speak of &quot;an Emily Dickinson poem&quot; ?  If you think about it, we could mean one of at least five different things.   We may be referring : <br />(1) to her poems as they are found in her original manuscripts; <br />(2) to their photographic facsimiles as in the present edition; <br />(3) to the Variorum editions of Thomas H. Johnson or R. W. Franklin  which attempt to get over into typographic form as much as  they can of her highly idiosyncratic manuscript drafts - with all of their variants and their peculiarities of line breaks, spacing, punctuation, and of alternate words about which she never made up her mind but placed neatly alongside or beneath many of her poems;  <br />(4) to the reader's editions of Johnson and Franklin which offer what these Dickinson scholars and expert editors feel is _one_ (of many possible) sensible and acceptable readings out of the mass of variants;<br />(5) or finally we may be referring to her poems as altered, revised, regularized, tidied-up and smoothed out so as to be made to look more  'normal' and acceptable to ordinary readers.  At this fifth and furthest  remove from ED's own drafts, we are given a text by a towering genius  as modified by someone who was far less than a genius, and who has usually  damaged the poem in various ways.<br />The present 2-volume set of 'The Manuscript Books of Emily Dickinson' brings us as close to the real thing as most of us will ever get.  It gives us photographic facsimiles, with full scholarly apparatus, not of all of her poems but of those she bound into forty fascicles, tiny hand-stitched manuscript-books that she squirreled away in her room and that were not to be discovered until after her death many years later.  <br />Here you can see howher strange handwriting changed radically over  the years.  Here you can see all of the peculiarities of her spelling.   Here you can see all those little asterisks which she  used to indicate an alternate word elsewhere on the page, usually at  the foot.  Here you can also see all of her line breaks and her idiosyncrasies of spacing, both of which are often highly significant.   Here, in a word, you can see the hand of a genius at work.  <br />Personally I think we are extremely fortunate to have these two  volumes, and that all lovers of ED's amazing poems, poems that are one of the wonders of the world, should be grateful to R. W. Franklin  for the arduous labors that must have gone into his impeccable edition, an edition with full scholarly apparatus that provides a wealth of fascinating information about the forty fascicles.<br />The two large, heavy and sturdy volumes are stitched, bound in half cloth, beautifully printed on a very strong, smooth, ivory tinted  paper that we are told is the finest paper in the world and I can well believe it, and they come in a buckram-covered box.  <br />It's clear that no pains have been spared to give us, not only accurate and annotated  photographic facsimiles of every page of the Manuscript Books, but  also to give them to us in sturdy and beautiful volumes that are a  fitting vehicle for the works of the amazing woman we know as Emily  Dickinson.  How astounded and gratified she would have been to have  seen this set, a set that would warm the heart of any bibliophile, and that belongs in the collection of all Dickinson enthusiasts.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	RK8AXXNLY6XMY	0316184152	560886000	Final Harvest: Poems	Books	5	69	72	N	N	Poems that are one of the world's wonders.	When it comes to choosing an edition of Emily Dickinson's poems, we need to be very careful.  Selections of her poems have appeared in many editions, and the earlier ones - which are still being reprinted - often contain extensively edited and revised versions of her poems which do not give us what she actually wrote.  <br />Her poems are so unusual, in terms of their diction, meters, grammar, and punctuation, that earlier editors felt obliged to replace her characteristic dashes with more conventional punctuation, and to  regularize and smooth out her texts to make them more acceptable to  readers of the time.<br />In fact, it was only when Thomas H. Johnson's editions appeared that readers were finally given an accurate version of the original texts, with Emily Dickinson's diction and punctuation restored.<br />Johnson has produced three different editions of the poems.  The first,  a 3-volume Variorum Edition (1955), includes all of her many variants,  since Emily Dickinson often added alternate words to her drafts and  in many cases seems never to have decided on a final reading.  These  variants, though extremely interesting to scholars, enthusiasts, and  advanced students of ED, are not really necessary in an edition for  the general reader.<br />What the general reader needs is an edition in which the editor, after closely examining the manuscripts and taking into account all relevant  factors, gives what he feels is a sensible and acceptable reading, and  this is what Johnson has given us in the two other editions he prepared, a Reader's edition of the Complete Poems (details of which are given below), and an abridgement of this which included only what he felt were her best poems. <br />In other words, readers can feel confident that in the present edition  they have been given (insofar as it's possible to get her idiosyncratic manuscript drafts over into typography) at least one accurate reading  of ED's original draft.  <br />Those who would like to lookat the variants can always consult  Johnson's Variorum (1955), or the more recent Variorum of R. W.  Franklin (1998).  Better still, if they can, they might take a look  at R. W. Franklin's sumptuous 2-volume 'The Manuscript Books of Emily  Dickinson' (1981), which gives photographic facsimiles of many of her manuscripts.<br />Emily Dickinson is a very great poet.  Personally I think that in some  ways she is the greatest poet of all.  In the present edition we have  been given accurate texts of a selection of her poems, arranged so far  as was possible in chronological order of composition.  Johnson's is an edition which should serve the general reader well enough for most ordinary purposes.  <br />Another excellent Reader's edition that can be recommended has been prepared by ED's most recent editor, R. W. Franklin (1999).  Either of the Johnsons or the Franklin (which contains 14 additional poems) will give you access to a body of poems that are so far above the ordinary  run of poems that we really ought to have another word for them.<br />Just as a prism breaks up light into a band of colors - red, orange,  yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and their infinite gradations,  so do Emily Dickinson's poems become, as it were, a prism which  conducts the white light of reality, a reality which as it passes  through the prism of her poem explodes into a multiplicity of meanings.  <br />It is the rich suggestiveness of her poems, a suggestiveness which generates an incredible range of meanings, that prevents us from ever  being able to say (to continue the metaphor) that a given poem is  'about red' or 'about blue,' because her poems, as US critic Robert  Weisbuch has pointed out, are in fact about _everything_.  This  is what makes her so unique, and this is why she appeals to every kind of reader.<br />Emily Dickinson's poetry is one of the wonders of the world.  Whether you select one of the Johnsons or the Franklin edition, it will become  a book that you will cherish, a golden book and endless source of  pleasure and inspiration that you will find yourself returning to again and again.  <br />For those who may be interested, details of Johnson's reader's edition of the Complete Poems are as follows :<br />THE COMPLETE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 784 pp. Boston : Little, Brown, 1960 and Reissued.  ISBN: 0316184136 (pbk.)	2001-06-22
US	50869571	RS3MYT4FIQDNL	0801403626	619466763	A Concordance to the Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	8	8	N	N	For the student of ED who has almost everything.	A CONCORDANCE TO THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by  S. P. Rosenbaum.  899 pp.  Ithaca and London : Cornell University Press, 1978 (1964) and Reprinted.  ISBN 0-8014-0362-6 (hbk.)<br />The present book is a computer-generated Concordance, not to every word in Emily Dickinson's poems - common words such as &quot;a,&quot; &quot;at,&quot; &quot;both,&quot; &quot;they&quot;, &quot;when,&quot; &quot;which,&quot; etc., - have of course been omitted, but to every significant word.  <br />As a computer generated book it suffers from certain weaknesses  inherent in this type of project, but for most users these will probably  be only of academic interest.  In use this Concordance works very  well indeed, and I have always been able to quickly locate whatever I  was looking for.<br />Its most obvious use is to locate 'lost' poems, and with 1,775 poems  to worry about, everyone must have had the experience of almost going nuts trying to locate the poem in which a remembered word or phrase or line occurred.  But with the Rosenbaum you can kiss all such  tortures Goodbye.<br />Its second use is of course as a research tool.  How many times, for example, does Emily Dickinson use the word &quot;fish&quot;?  The Christian camp are very eager to claim ED for their ranks, and we know that the fish is a very important Christian symbol, and that fish, fishing, and fishermen feature prominently in the New Testament.  We also know that ED's contemporaries, and presumably ED herself, ate fish, and that fishing was and is considered a 'sport.'  <br />This is the sort of question that can occur in the course of one's reading and thinking and writing about Dickinson, and is one that Rosenbaum can quickly answer.  His answer amazed me, as it may you.  His anwer is 1.  According to him, the word &quot;fish&quot; occurs only once in ED's poems, in the phrase &quot;my pantry has a fish&quot; from  poem 1749 &quot;The waters chased him as...&quot;<br />Mine are the simple pleasures of the enthusiast.  Dickinson scholars will no doubt find other and more sophisticated uses for the Rosenbaum, and some may even have found things in it to quibble about.  But so far as I'm concerned it's an invaluable tool,  and one that any student of ED would enjoy using and find extremely useful.<br />My only complaint is that (in my copy) the print on many pages is very faint.  Presumably somebody forgot to ink the rollers, and the result has been to make some pages difficult to read, or to scan  easily, though others are black and clear enough.<br />The book is standard 8vo in size (6.25 by 9.5 inches), bound in full  strong cloth, stitched, and not particularly well-printed on excellent strong paper, and has clearly been designed for the sort of heavy and long-term use it will probably get.  <br />The kicker, of course, is the price.  So if you weren't born with a silver spoon in your mouth, maybe you could add the Rosenbaum to  your Wish List and keep your fingers crossed.  Or else rob a bank. Because I know you'd love it.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	RLM6WXIN6OGMQ	0812523385	186391257	Selected Poems of Emily Dickinson (Tor Classics)	Books	3	54	55	N	N	This is not really the edition you want.	I don't doubt that it's possible to enjoy Emily Dickinson's poems in editions like this.  But you should be aware that you are not really reading what she wrote.  You are reading what earlier editors _wish_ she had written - a sort of 'tidied-up' and regularized version, the  badly tampered-with-text of a genius by those who weren't. <br />In a way, the situation is a bit like the one that prevails with regard to food.  Would you rather eat natural food or genetically modified food?  Maybe the modified food doesn't taste any different, but it might be doing harmful things to you that the author of real food never intended.  So why take a risk when we can have the real thing ? <br />There are two major editors who can be relied on for accurate texts of ED's poems.  These are Dickinson scholars R. W. Franklin and Thomas H. Johnson.  Both produced large Variorum editions for scholars, along  with reader's editions of the Complete Poems for the ordinary reader.  Details of their respective reader's editions are as follows.  <br />THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON : Reading Edition.  Edited by  R. W. Franklin.  692 pp.  Cambridge, Massachusetts : The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1999.  ISBN 0-674-67624-6 (hbk.)<br />THE COMPLETE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 784 pp. Boston : Little, Brown, 1960 and Reissued.  ISBN: 0316184136 (pbk.)<br />For those who don't feel up to tackling the Complete Poems, there is Johnson's abridgement of his Reader's edition, an excellent selection  of what he feels were her best poems:<br />FINAL HARVEST : Emily Dickinson's Poems.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 352 pages.  New York : Little Brown &amp; Co, 1997. ISBN: 0316184152 (paperbound).<br />Friends, do yourself a favor and get Johnson's edition.  Why accept a watered-down version when you can have the real thing?	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R3TNJ9441H30PO	1570620997	121067272	Poems (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A prism which captures the white light of reality.	Just as a prism breaks up light into a band of colors - red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and their infinite gradations, so do Emily Dickinson's poems become, as it were, a prism which captures the white light of reality, a reality which as it flows through the prism of her poem explodes into a multiplicity of meanings.<br />It is the rich suggestiveness of her poems, a suggestiveness which generates an incredible range of meanings, that prevents us from ever being able to say (to continue the metaphor) that a given poem is 'about red' or 'about blue,' because her poems, as US critic Robert Weisbuch has observed, are in fact about everything. This is what makes her so unique, and this is why she appeals to every kind of reader, and even to children. <br />The present book, which has been edited by Brenda Hillman, gives us accurate texts of the poems in a 150-page selection taken from the authoritative variorum edition of Thomas H. Johnson, the well-known Dickinson scholar who worked many years to establish the correct texts.  <br />The book is beautifully printed in two-colors on excellent paper, and in a tiny format which is perfect for the pocket.  It would in fact make a very nice gift.  You'd be making a gift of poetry which is one of the wonders of the world.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R3FKE7NI5ZGVO5	0674250605	462650591	Emily Dickinson Selected Letters (Belknap Press)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Precious surviving fragments of a great oeuvre.	EMILY DICKINSON SELECTED LETTERS.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 364 pp.  Cambridge, Massachusetts : The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1971.  SBN674-25060-5 (hbk).<br />Emily Dickinson was a great letter writer, in all senses of the  word.  In fact one gets the impression that she actually preferred writing to people, than meeting and conversing with them, and for her the arrival of a letter was a great event.  A letter was something she looked forward to with keen anticipation, and which she savored to the full whenever one arrived.<br />The present selection of letters represents only a small proportion  of the letters Emily Dickinson actually wrote.  She was an inveterate letter-writer, had many correspondents, and wrote thousands of letters.  And people  in those days collected letters just as today.  <br />Unfortunately it was the custom, whenever anyone died, to make a bonfire of all of their correspondence, probably because of its personal and confidential  nature.  In this way thousands of pages of Emily Dickinson's writings have been lost to posterity, and we would know much more aboute the details of her day-to-day life, and be able to date her poems more accurately, if it hadn't been for this  tragic loss. <br />Just how great the loss is may be gaged by taking a look at the way Ellen Louise Hart and Martha Nell Smith have treated her letters in 'Open Me Carefully : Emily Dickinson's Intimate Letters to Susan Huntington Dickinson' (1998).  Whereas Thomas Johnson prints all of ED's letters as straight prose, which of course leads us to read them as straight prose, Hart-Smith give us their  particular letters as they actually appear in the original draft - not as continous lines of prose but as very short lines with numerous line breaks - in other words, as poetry.<br />It would seem that at least some of ED's 'letters' are not so much letters as 'letter-poems,' and when read as poems produce a remarkable range  of effects that are lost when allline breaks are removed and the 'letter' is regularized as straight prose.  The loss of her letters now begins to look much more serious, for there seems to be a growing feeling among readers that her letters were every bit as great an artistic achievement as her poems.<br />Given this, the present book becomes something that should interest all serious students of ED, although before reading it they might (if they haven't already) take at look at the Hart-Smith, and keep it in mind while reading the Johnson.  One wonders how much poetry may be lurking unrecognized in the regularized lines of 'Emily  Dickinson's Selected Letters.'	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R242ZH271WCWV0	0486264661	186391257	Selected Poems	Books	5	40	41	N	N	This is not really the edition you want.	I don't doubt that it's possible to enjoy Emily Dickinson's poems in editions like this.  But you should be aware that you are not really reading what she wrote.  You are reading what earlier editors _wish_ she had written - a sort of 'tidied-up' and regularized version, a  badly-tampered-with-text of a genius by those who weren't.<br />In a way, the situation is a bit like the one that prevails with regard to food.  Would you rather eat natural food or genetically modified food?  Maybe the modified food doesn't taste any different, but it might be doing harmful things to us that the author of real food never intended.  So why take a risk when we can have the real thing ?<br />There are two major editors who can be relied on for accurate texts of ED's poems.  These are Dickinson scholars R. W. Franklin and Thomas H. Johnson.  Both produced large Variorum editions for scholars, along  with reader's editions of the Complete Poems for the ordinary reader.  Details of their respective reader's editions are as follows.<br />THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON : Reading Edition.  Edited by  R. W. Franklin.  692 pp.  Cambridge, Massachusetts : The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1999.  ISBN 0-674-67624-6 (hbk.)<br />THE COMPLETE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 784 pp. Boston : Little, Brown, 1960 and Reissued.  ISBN: 0316184136 (pbk.)<br />For those who don't feel up to tackling the Complete Poems, there is Johnson's abridgement of his Reader's edition, an excellent selection  of what he feels were her best poems:<br />FINAL HARVEST : Emily Dickinson's Poems.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 352 pages.  New York : Little Brown &amp; Co, 1997. ISBN: 0316184152 (paperbound).<br />Friends, do yourself a favor and get Johnson's edition.  Why accept a watered-down version when you can have the real thing?	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R1GYZS02C9FUFZ	0679602011	186391257	The Selected Poems of Emily Dickinson (Modern Library)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	This is not really the edition you want.	I don't doubt that it's possible to enjoy Emily Dickinson's poems in editions like this.  But you should be aware that you are not really reading what she wrote.  You are reading what earlier editors _wish_ she had written - a sort of 'tidied-up' and regularized version, the  badly tampered-with-text of a genius by those who weren't. <br />In a way, the situation is a bit like the one that prevails with regard to food.  Would you rather eat natural food or genetically modified food?  Maybe the modified food doesn't taste any different, but it might be doing harmful things to us that the author of real food never intended.  So why take a risk when we can have the real thing ? <br />There are two major editors who can be relied on for accurate texts of ED's poems.  These are Dickinson scholars R. W. Franklin and Thomas H. Johnson.  Both produced large Variorum editions for scholars, along  with reader's editions of the Complete Poems for the ordinary reader.  Details of their respective reader's editions are as follows.  <br />THE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON : Reading Edition.  Edited by  R. W. Franklin.  692 pp.  Cambridge, Massachusetts : The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1999.  ISBN 0-674-67624-6 (hbk.)<br />THE COMPLETE POEMS OF EMILY DICKINSON.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 784 pp. Boston : Little, Brown, 1960 and Reissued.  ISBN: 0316184136 (pbk.)<br />For those who don't feel up to tackling the Complete Poems, there is Johnson's abridgement of his Reader's edition, an excellent selection  of what he feels were her best poems:<br />FINAL HARVEST : Emily Dickinson's Poems.  Edited by Thomas H. Johnson. 352 pages.  New York : Little Brown &amp; Co, 1997. ISBN: 0316184152 (paperbound).<br />Friends, do yourself a favor and get Johnson's edition.  Why accept a watered-down version when you can have the real thing?	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R32REZIQXKTSXV	0517362422	844504752	Collected Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	6	14	N	N	A prism which captures the white light of reality	Just as a prism breaks up light into a band of colors - red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and their infinite gradations, so do Emily Dickinson's poems become, as it were, a prism which captures the white light of reality, a reality which as it flows through the prism of her poem explodes into a multiplicity of meanings.<br />It is the rich suggestiveness of her poems, a suggestiveness which generates an incredible range of meanings, that prevents us from ever being able to say (to continue the metaphor) that a given poem is 'about red' or 'about blue,' because her poems, as US critic Robert Weisbuch has observed, are in fact about _everything_. This is what makes her so unique, and this is why she appeals to every kind of reader (or certainly to open-minded ones) and even to children. <br />Emily Dickinson's poetry is one of the wonders of the world.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R1EY0UXU1NR276	091249803X	315974449	American Dictionary of the English Language (1828 Facsimile Edition)	Books	5	361	369	N	N	A fund of wisdom, knowledge, and information.	NOAH WEBSTER'S FIRST EDITION OF AN AMERICAN DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.  San Francisco: Foundation for American Christian Education, Twelfth Printing, 2000.  ISBN 0-912498-03-X<br />This book is a facsimile of the 1828 two-volume dictionary in one volume,  which besides having its own great intrinsic interest, will also be  of great interest to students of Emily Dickinson.  <br />Noah Webster was a very learned and very devout man, and his ideas about language in his very long Introduction to this book make for interesting reading.  The frontispiece gives us a marvelous portrait of Webster.  He looks like a man of strong will and determination, qualities he would have needed to push his great project to a conclusion.<br />As for the actual entries, Christian readers  will find it rewarding to compare his definitions of such words as &quot;marriage&quot;, &quot;education&quot;, &quot;sin&quot;, &quot;law&quot;, &quot;faith&quot;, &quot;prayer&quot;, etc., with those given in any modern dictionary.  They will probably be surprised at the great differences, and may come away with a renewed respect for this great American.<br />Turning to Emily Dickinson, we know that she made frequent and extensive use of Noah Webster's 'Dictionary of the English Language' in writing her poems, paying attention not only to definitions but  also to Webster's etymologies and his illustrative quotations.<br />The scholarly consensus is that she probably made use of an 1844 reprint of the 1841 edition, but since this is now rare, and since  the 1828 edition was also in the Dickinson library, the present facsimile of the 1828 edition becomes an important resource  for helping us to recover at least some of the senses in which she understood certain words.<br />The present book is a large heavy quarto volume (8.5 by 11 inches),  stitched, bound in full strong cloth, well-printed on thin but  good quality paper, and has clearly been designed for heavy use.  Since it  isn't paginated in the normal way, I'm not sure exactly how long it  is, but at a guess I'd say it must be at least 1500 pages, if not 2000.<br />It's a great pleasure to handle such a well-produced book, and to  read its definitions and ponder the great changes that have occurred  in the meanings of words over the last 130 years.  This is a book that should be in everyone's library, as providing a fund of wisdom,  knowledge, and information that few modern books can even begin to  approach.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	RTKFF9KG29OTC	0517091291	186391257	Emily Dickinson: Selected Poems (Library of Classic Poets)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A prism which captures the white light of reality	Just as a prism breaks up light into a band of colors - red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and their infinite gradations, so do Emily Dickinson's poems become, as it were, a prism which captures the white light of reality, a reality which as it flows through the prism of her poem explodes into a multiplicity of meanings.<br />It is the rich suggestiveness of her poems, a suggestiveness which generates an incredible range of meanings, that prevents us from ever being able to say (to continue the metaphor) that a given poem is 'about red' or 'about blue,' because her poems, as US critic Robert Weisbuch has observed, are in fact about _everything_. This is what makes her so unique, and this is why she appeals to every kind of reader (or certainly to open-minded ones) and even to children. <br />Emily Dickinson's poetry is one of the wonders of the world.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R245DT770750Z	0674008782	228712258	After Great Pain: The Inner Life of Emily Dickinson (Belknap Press)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A psychoanalytic reading of ED's tortured life.	AFTER GREAT PAIN : The Inner life of Emily Dickinson.  By John Cody. 538 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts : The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1971.  SBN 674-00878-2  (hbk.)<br />This book is a fascinating psychoanalytic reading of ED's tortured life, by a professional psychiatrist who devoted seven years to it,  and is unsparing of the falsifications indulged in by most of her biographers and critics.  ED cultists, in particular, loathe the book (always a good sign) because it gives us a very human and very  tormented Emily Dickinson, a woman starved for love who had serious psychological problems which retarded her emotional development, and  who almost certainly suffered a nervous breakdown as a result.<br />Why any of this should disturb the open-minded I have no idea.  The Dickinson household was certainly a very strange and abnormal place,  and the Dickinson children had a far from normal upbringing.  The aloofness of the father, his inability to show love or warmth and  relate in a normal fashion to his children, would have a devastating  effect on any child.  <br />The arguments I have seen against Cody have been very weak, though proof of the rightness of his thesis is very strong.  It runs all through the poems and has been analyzed in great detail by Camille  Paglia in Chapter 24 of her _Sexual Personae_ 'Amherst's Madame de Sade : Emily Dickinson' (pp.623-74).<br />The poems Paglia quotes are authentic Dickinson poems.  No matter how much worshippers at the shrine of their 'Saint Emily' would like to wish them away, they will not go away.  Also, they have meaning.<br />My advice would be to read both Cody and Paglia.  They're both fascinating writers, they both know what they're talking about, and I think that what they say helps us to understand aspects of both Dickinson  and many of the poems she wrote.<br />Emily Dickinson was a very complex figure, and everyone tries to claim her for their camp - Cultists, Christians, Psychiatrists, Sadeians,etc., - but I guess the truth is that, although there's a certain amount of truth in all these positions, Emily Dickinson is just too big to be contained.  She bursts free of all categories. Like her poems she explodes into a multiplicity of meanings, perhaps because, like them she wasn't about something, but about everything.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	RVV98Y01OZI2Q	0781226333	844504752	The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson (Notable American Authors Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A prism which captures the white light of reality	Just as a prism breaks up light into a band of colors - red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet - and their infinite gradations, so do Emily Dickinson's poems become, as it were, a prism which captures the white light of reality, a reality which as it flows through the prism of her poem explodes into a multiplicity of meanings.<br />It is the rich suggestiveness of her poems, a suggestiveness which generates an incredible range of meanings, that prevents us from ever being able to say (to continue the metaphor) that a given poem is 'about red' or 'about blue,' because her poems, as US critic Robert Weisbuch has observed, are in fact about _everything_. This is what makes her so unique, and this is why she appeals to every kind of reader (or certainly to open-minded ones) and even to children. <br />Emily Dickinson's poetry is one of the wonders of the world.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R2XKUT2SW08NIQ	0844616818	933218479	Ancestors' Brocades: The Literary Discovery of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An unputdownable book.  Absolutely fascinating!	ANCESTOR'S BROCADES : The Literary Debut of Emily Dickinson.  By Millicent Todd Bingham.  464 pp.  New York and London : Harper and Brothers.  Originally published 1945.<br />This book is the fascinating story of the circumstances attending the first appearance of Emily Dickinson's poetry : the arrival in Amherst in 1881 of the young astronomer David Peck Todd and his sophisticated and beautiful wife, Mabel Loomis Todd; their taking up residence near the two Dickinson households; that of the gentle recluse-poetess Emily and her bleak and arrogant sister Lavinia; and that of their brother Austin and his wife and children; the death of Emily five years later; the discovery by Lavinia of dozens of tiny manuscript-books, and of hundreds of scraps of paper on which lines and poems of varying degrees of legibility were written, many barely decipherable; Lavinia's eager desire to see this material published; her incompetence for the task; her request for help from  Mabel Loomis Todd; Mabel's long labor of editing the manuscripts in consultation with her husband and Colonel Higginson; the appearance  of the first three volumes as causing a transatlantic furor at their unconventionality; the feud that was simmering in Amherst; its climax, etc., etc.<br />This is without doubt one of the most interesting books I've read in  my studies of Dickinson.  Millicent Bingham Todd has an amazing knack of bringing these long-dead people before our eyes and making them live again.  Her portrayal, in particular, of her mother, Mabel Loomis Todd, is very compelling.  She comes across as a remarkably sane, kind, and intelligent woman, and one sympathizes with her in her feud with the horrible Lavinia.  And the story of the difficulties of editing ED's manuscripts, and of getting them published in the  teeth of public opinion, the triumph of finally succeeding, the slow but steady growth of ED's popularity, all this was fascinating stuff.<br />Don't believe what the cultists and ED groupiestell you about Mabel Loomis Todd.  She was a truly wonderful and very impressive woman. And it becomes perfectly clear that if it hadn't been for her devotion  to the task of editing ED's manuscripts, and her fortitude through  many trials and hardships and frustrations, it's entirely possible that ED's poems might never have seen the light of day, and her amazing poems have been lost to the world.  ED Cultists can go fly a kite.  I think we all owe Mabel Loomis Todd an enormous debt of gratitude.	2001-06-22
US	50869571	R7REIOT51OAE7	0313297819	312040448	An Emily Dickinson Encyclopedia	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Skimpy, squeaky-clean orthodox, and a big disappointment.	Considering its high price and the fact that it calls itself an 'Encyclopedia,' and considering the incredible importance of  Emily Dickinson's writings and the vast amount of research and criticism they have given rise to, one would have expected this book to have been a rather hefty and substantial volume.<br />One would have expected, for example, many interesting photographs, illustrations, useful tables, maps, genealogies,   discussions  of _many_ of her important poems, detailed and classified bibliographies of early editions, modern editions, biographies, criticism, etc. And one would have expected much more.  After all, this book is supposed to be an 'Encyclopedia.'<br />Unfortunately we get very little of the above.  What we get is a  standard 8vo-size volume (6.5 by 9.5 inches) of just 395 pages of bare  and unadorned text.  After a brief Preface, a Chronology, and a list of Abbreviations, 312 pages of articles follow.  The articles vary  from paragraph to essay-length, and the book is rounded out with  two Appendices, an 18-page Bibliography (of which 16 pages are devoted  to Critical Books, Articles, and Dissertations), an Index of Poems Cited, and a General Index.  <br />Interestingly, in a book already top-heavy with biographical entries, and that might have included so much else - I  personally expected to find many more discussions of individual poems,  for example - it concludes with 9 pages 'About the  Contributors' - their affiliations, major publications, and interests.<br />The articles are arranged alphabetically.  Here is the entire crop for 'A' : &quot;A narrow Fellow in the Grass&quot; (P986); &quot;After great pain a formal feeling comes -&quot; (P341); Aldrich, Thomas Bailey; Ambiguity; American Dictionary of the English Language; Amherst; Amherst Academy; Amherst College; Anthon, Catherine (Scott) Turner (1831-1917); Aphorism;  &quot;Apparently with no surprise&quot; (P1624); Asian Responses to Dickinson; The Atlantic Monthly, A Magazineof Literature, Science, Art, and  Politics; Austin.<br />So much for the letter 'A.'  To properly evaluate the scope of this  book and the quality of its articles (some of which read quite well), one would of course have to be a Dickinson scholar, which I'm not.  I do note, however, the absence under 'A' of an  entry on 'Animals,' which in view of the many animals we find in  Dickinson's poems seems very strange.<br />I also note, on turning to the entry for 'Carlo,' Emily Dickinson's pet dog, the following statement: &quot;He is the only animal in her entire corpus given  human emotion and intelligence&quot; (p.41).  This statement is utterly and  completely false, and could easily be shown to be so, by, for example,  an analysis of a poem such as &quot;The waters chased him as he fled&quot; (P1749).  I've also  run into other highly dubious statements in this book, particularly  ones that seem determined at all costs to claim Dickinson for the Christian camp, whereas it seems perfectly evident to me that her mind was far too subtle to be contained by Christianity, or indeed by any official religion.<br />This book is very much a product of the official world of Dickinson scholarship.  Its orientation is squeaky-clean orthodox, and it has either rejected or distorted much that isn't to its taste.  It will prove a handy (though misleading) reference work for students, and the few ED cultists who stumble upon it will no doubt approve of it.  <br />The book is bound in full cloth, stitched, and beautifully printed on excellent strong paper, but to me its contents came as a terrible disappointment.  Gudrun Grabher's  'The Emily Dickinson Handbook' (1998) turned out to be a far better book, a superb collection of articles from which I feel that I'm actually learning something  about Emily Dickinson.  Some of its contributors are also found in the 'Encyclopedia,' but perhaps they weren't operating under quite the same constraints.	2001-06-21
US	50869571	RNLLJU1PXYAM8	0451627636	635017189	The Sayings of Confucius (Mentor Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Learning from Confucius.	THE SAYINGS OF CONFUCIUS.  A New Translation by James R. Ware. 128 pp. (Mentor Religious Classic).  New York : New American Library, 1955 and Reissued.<br />The present book, after a 13-page Introduction on the historical background of Confucius, gives us an unannotated translation of a Chinese Classic that is more commonly referred to in the West  'The Analects of Confucius.'  Ware rounds out his edition with a  Table of Chinese Dynasties, a brief Bibliography, and an Index of Subjects.<br />Ware's historical Introduction is the work of a sincere and genuinely concerned person, and should be of use to the newcomer to this subject.  Ware sees something of great value in the Chinese tradition, something exemplified by Confucius and that the West desperately needs, although it has yet to realize this. <br />He tells us that &quot;Confucius has much to say to us today,&quot; both as  individuals and as an entire culture or social entity.  As individuals  we can &quot; receive personal encouragement for the leading of a good life.&quot;  As an entire society, we could &quot;formulate for ourselves a better  Truth&quot; (p.7).<br />Personally I feel sure that Ware is right, although for the wrong reasons.  All of us are blind to our own shadows, and those who have no experience of or deep familiarity with a foreign culture will never fully understand their own.  Ware's immersion in Chinese thought has  led him to see something, but I don't think he's seen it as clearly as he might have.<br />One of the finest popular treatments of Chinese culture that we have  is Lin Yutang's 'My Country and My People.'  And one of the most important points that Lin makes is that, whereas China has always been characterized by &quot;a reasonable use of reason,&quot; the West has never shown a similar restraint but has instead given itself over  to &quot;an excessive use of reason&quot; and a worship of mere rationality  and the 'scientific method.'  <br />In other words, the Chinese, asa profoundly common-sensical people,  have always remained firmly grounded in reality because they have  always understood that REASON CAN ONLY TAKE YOU SO FAR.  But the West  seems never to have never understood this.  And unless it does, the Juggernaut of  Reason which has been underway for centuries will continue on its  ruthless and relentless course until it ends up by crushing everything.<br />Ware's translation, though undoubtedly sincere, is characterized by a certain woodenness, a certain stiffness.  Here, as an example, is his rendering of Book II, xiv :<br />&quot;Great Man, being universal in his outlook, is impartial; Petty Man, being partial, is not universal in outlook&quot; (p.27) <br />Though Ware is adequate, I was weaned on Ezra Pound's more lively and  idiosyncratic version of 'The Analects,' and although I've read and compared several  translations, the lines that tend to stick in my mind are invariably  those of Pound.  Here is how he handles the same passage :<br />&quot;He said : A proper man is inclusive, not sectary; the small man is sectarian and not inclusive&quot; (Book II, xiv).<br />For the same passage, Arthur Waley gives:<br />&quot;The Master said, A gentleman can see a question from all sides without bias.  The small man is biased and can see a question only from one side&quot; (p.91).<br />All three versions, so far as I can see, mean pretty much the same  thing, although Ware is stiff, and Waley is more prosy and uses  almost twice as many words as Pound.  Pound's edition, besides its greater punch, also has the merit of including two additional and  very powerful texts, along with beautiful reproductions of them from  the stone Classics.<br />Ware, Waley and Pound give us Confucius as reflected in three intelligent though different sensibilities, all of them valuable. My advice would be to read and compare at least two of them.  For  those who may be interested, here are details of the Waley and the Pound : <br />THE ANALECTS OFCONFUCIUS.  Translated and annotated by Arthur Waley. 257 pp.  New York : Vintage Books, nd.  Originally published by  George, Allen, &amp; Unwin, 1938.<br />CONFUCIUS : THE GREAT DIGEST, THE UNWOBBLING PIVOT, THE ANALECTS.  Translation and Commentary by Ezra Pound.  Stone Text from rubbings  supplied by William Hawley.  288 pp.  New York: New Directions, 1951  and Reissued.<br />It is in Pound's translation of 'The Great Digest' that we find the  striking line:  &quot;If the root be in confusion, nothing will be well governed&quot; (p.33).  This is a line that I think Ware would have greatly admired.	2001-06-21
US	50869571	R2M6WHKB5WSL61	0300085060	63045532	Shakespeare's Sonnets (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	5	72	73	N	N	Giving Shakespeare's words a chance to work their magic.	SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS.  Edited with analytic commentary by Stephen Booth.  583 pp.  (Yale Nota Bene).  New Haven &amp; London : Yale  University Press, 2000 (1977).  ISBN 0-300-08506-0 (pbk.)<br />Shakespeare's 'Sonnets' is a deservedly well-loved body of poetry, and there have been innumerable editions.  For the enthusiast and student, however, it's doubtful that there could be a better edition than that of Stephen Booth.  Originally published in a bulky (and expensive) clothbound edition in 1977, it has now been reissued as a fat though fairly compact paperback that will put it within  reach of a much wider audience.<br />One reason that Elizabethan lyrics are so powerful and memorable, is that they were composed in an age when poetry was still linked closely with music.  Elizabethans were often competent musicians, and many of their poems were true lyrics or songs.  Often their poems were set to music, and all were probably composed while the gentle plucking of a lute or some such instrument was running somewhere through the back of the poet's mind.<br />Today we live in an age when composers are no longer giving us real songs, songs that stay in the mind and that can be hummed or sung when  for some reason or other they rise into consciousness; songs that are  always there when we feel like singing, and that can help cheer us up,  make us happy, and refresh our spirit; songs, too, for both light and  more thoughtful moods.<br />In contrast to this true type of song, what we seem to be getting  today is little more than words with little or no meaning accompanied  by noise, the sort of stuff that a machine could write and probably  is writing, and profoundly unmemorable.<br />Shakespeare's 'Sonnets,' however, bring us a world of meaning.  The  whole of life is in them - its joys and sorrows, its passions and frustrations and torments - and all expressed in some of the most  sonorous and beautiful English ever written, and set to powerful  rhythms that deeply penetrate the psyche.<br />Stephen Booth's edition, after a Preface in which he explains his procedures, gives us not one but two texts of the 'Sonnets,' each of which is printed on facing pages : The Text of the 1609 Quarto (Apsley imprint, the Huntington-Bridgewater copy), and Booth's edited text with modern spelling and punctuation.<br />Seeing the texts exactly as they were presented to Shakespeare's  contemporaries is an interesting experience.  Some readers will  probably love the antique spellings and typography, other may hate  it, but at least we've been given a choice.  And having access to  the Quarto can lead to a deeper understanding of the poems.<br />Booth's incredibly full and detailed commentary, a commentary for the  advanced student and the scholar, and which &quot;is designed to help a  modern reader towards the kind of understanding that Renaissance readers  brought to the works,&quot; is set in a rather tiny font and runs to over 400  pages.  Here, in comments ranging from brief glosses to full-length essays, will be found the answer to every conceivable question we  may have about an individual sonnet, and much more besides.<br />Booth has incorporated four extended essays into his analytic  commentary : 1. On explications and emendations of unsatisfactory Shakespearian texts (pp.364-72); 2. On the special grandeur of the best sonnets (pp.387-92); 3. On spelling and punctuation (pp.447-520); 4. On the functions of criticism (pp.507-17).<br />Following the commentary Booth has provided a list of Abbreviations Used in the Commentary; two Appendixes (1. Facts and  Theories about Shakespeare's Sonnets; 2. Excerpts from Book XIV of Ovid's 'Metamorphoses'); a detailed Index to the Commentary; an Index of First Lines; and a section of Additional Notes.  The book also includes illustrations of two title pages, and the incredible 'literal portrait of a beauty' on page 453.<br />It will be seen that Booth has set quite a feast before us, and probably one far bigger than many readers are looking for.  Those who would prefer to have a version which, though still offering the original Quarto text along with a modernized text, but with  a less detailed though equally sophisticated commentary  which takes the form of sonnet-by-sonnet essays, might take a look at  the far better produced and more beautifully printed edition of  Helen H. Vendler ('The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets,' Belknap 1999).<br />Others might prefer to think of Booth's prize-winning edition as a sort of investment, which perhaps contains more than they presently need, but  which they will probably be able to put to fuller use later on.  In terms of its content, the Booth seems to me to be  unexceptionable.  In terms of its physical makeup, however, it leaves much to be desired.<br />Although it is well-printed, the paper is not of particularly good quality.  The fonts used for the 'Sonnets,' though not large, are readable.  But the fonts used in the rest of the book are so tiny as  to make them tiring to read for any length of time.  You will need  very good eyesight and very good lighting to feel comfortable when  reading this book.<br />To return to the 'Sonnets,' the fact that their lines stick so  easily in our minds, and that the re-reading of favorites will soon  see us having memorized, if not the  whole sonnet then certainly  substantial portions of it, seems to me  proof that the 'Sonnets' are  real sustenance for the spirit.  They help at different times to  to fortify our spirit, to clarify our own thoughts about life, and  even on occasions to cheer us up.<br />As such, and whether we realize it or not, they become a kind of word-music  that all of us need.  So whether you go for the Booth or the Vendler  or some other less ambitious edition, my advice would be to give Shakespeare's words  a chance to work their magic.  You may be surprised at what they can do for you.y one far bigger than many readers are looking for.  Those who would prefer to have a version which, though still offering the original Quarto text along with a modernized text, but with  a less detailed though equally sophisticated commentary  which takes the form of sonnet-by-sonnet essays, might take a look at  the far better produced and more beautifully printed edition of  Helen H. Vendler ('The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets,' Belknap 1999).  <br />Others might prefer to think of Booth's prize-winning edition as a sort of investment, which perhaps contains more than they presently need, but  which they will probably be able to put to fuller use later on.  In terms of its content, the Booth seems to me to be  unexceptionable.   In terms of its physical makeup, however, it leaves much to be desired.<br />Although it is well-printed, the paper is not of particularly good quality.  The fonts used for the 'Sonnets,' though not large, are readable.  But the fonts used in the rest of the book are so tiny as  to make them tiring to read for any length of time.  You will need  very good eyesight and very good lighting to feel comfortable when  reading this book. <br />To return to the 'Sonnets,' the fact that their lines stick so  easily in our minds, and that the re-reading of favorites will soon  see us having memorized, if not the  whole sonnet then certainly  substantial portions of it, seems to me  proof that the 'Sonnets' are  real sustenance for the spirit.  They help at different times to   to fortify our spirit, to clarify our own thoughts about life, and  even on occasions to cheer us up.  <br />As such, and whether we realize it or not, they become a kind of word-music  that all of us need.  So whether you go for the Booth or the Vendler  or some other less ambitious edition, my advice would be to give Shakespeare's words  a chance to work their magic.  You may be surprised at what they can do for you.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R1U98GGIMP4NT7	038523967X	930333736	The Heart of Chinese Poetry: Fifty-Seven of the Best Traditional Chinese Poems in a Dual-Language Edition	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Brings us face-to-face with the original Chinese texts.	THE HEART OF CHINESE POETRY.  By Greg Whincup.  178 pp.  (Anchor Books).  New York : Doubleday, 1987.  ISBN 0-385-23967-X (pbk.)<br />Greg Whincup has here had the useful idea of making Chinese poetry  come alive for the Western reader by bringing readers face-to-face  with the original texts.  Although it has been done before, for  example by David Hawkes in his 'A Little Primer of Tu Fu'  (Renditions Press, 1988), Whincup seems certainly to have done as well, and considering the incredible importance of the Chinese language, and the wealth of its literature, there really ought to be many more books like this.<br />Whereas Hawkes' book focused exclusively on the work of Tu Fu, Whincup has chosen instead to give us fifty-seven of China's greatest poems from a wide range of writers - Li Bai, Du Fu, Du Mu, Su Shr, etc.  If these names look strange it's because Whincup, rather than employing the Wade-Giles system of transcription which everyone is familiar with, has chosen instead to use the far less well-known Yale system of romanization.  For those who don't know it, which probably includes almost everyone, he has provided a brief guide on pages 173-74.  The book also contains an extensive 5-page English-language Bibliography<br />The poems have been topically arranged under the following headings : The Heart of Chinese Poetry; The History of Chinese Poetry; Three Poets of the Golden Age; Poems of War; Poems by and about Women;  Landscape/Enlightenment. <br />For each poem we are given : 1. Whincup's final translation; 2.  the Yale word-by-word romanization; 3. the printed full-form Chinese character (ideogram; sinograph); 4. a literal translation of each character; 5. explanatory notes.  A nice touch is that the texts have been arranged vertically.<br />As anyone who has read the poems like this can vouch, it really is the only way for the non-specialist to get an idea of how glorious Chinese poems are when understood in  their original language.  My only complaintis that, although the Chinese font that has been used in the book is a beautiful cursive form and without the stiffness of the usual printed form, it's also incredibly tiny, and the beginner is going to need very good eyes and very good lighting to be able to discern the structure of the more complex characters.<br />Here is an example of Whincup's final translation of a famous poem, 'Deer Fence,' by Wang Wei (with my obliques added to indicate line breaks) :<br />&quot;In the empty mountains / I see no one, / But hear the sound / Of someone's voice. // Slanting sunlight / Enters deep forest, / And shines again / On green moss&quot; (p.169).<br />This is a respectable effort, and readers might care to compare it with Wai-lim Yip's treatment of Wang Wei in his excellent bilingual anthology, details of which  follow below.<br />Whincup's is a wonderful book that, by enabling the reader to come to grips with the Chinese, will help anyone to arrive at a deeper and richer appreciation of Chinese poetry, and to see how far short of the originals any English translation must inevitably fall. You simply can't do in English what can be done in Chinese, and there really ought to be more books like 'The Heart of Chinese Poetry.'<br />For those who may be interested, here are details of the Yip:<br />  CHINESE POETRY : An Anthology of Major Modes and Genres.  Edited and translated by Wai-lim Yip.  358 pp.  Durham NC and London : Duke University Press, 1997.  ISBN 0-8223-1951-9 (pbk.)	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R1XZ8WWGYSBSDM	0231101554	838721308	The Old Man Who Does As He Pleases	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Poems and journals of a lively and lovable old rascal.	THE OLD MAN WHO DOES AS HE PLEASES : Selections from the Poetry and Prose of Lu Yu.  126 pp.  New York and London : Columbia  University Press, 1973.  ISBN 0-231-03766-X (hbk.)<br />Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a fine translator. Unlike certain others, he wears his scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter. His  many translations from Chinese and Japanese Literature are of uniformly  high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often  returns to. <br />Lu Yu (1125-1210) was an amazingly prolific poet, and left behind almost 10,000 poems as well as a variety of prose writings.  His poetry is characterized by occasional spasms of intense patriotism, but mainly   by a carefree enjoyment of life.   Hence his literary name 'Fang-weng' or 'The old man who does as he pleases.'  He adopted this name as a gesture of defiance after being dismissed from his official post for &quot;drunkenness and irresponsibilty.&quot;  This image of a lively and lovable old rascal is borne out by the poetry.<br />The present book offers a selection of sixty-three of Lu Yu's poems which provide us with glimpses of the poet's daily life.  Here is a  brief example, with my obliques added to indicate line breaks :<br />&quot;My medicine's crude, yet the old farmer / swears it really works. / my poems are shallow, yet the mountain monk / has immoderate praise for their skill. / Cakes in pockets, with packets of tea / they come to pay me a visit. / What harm if in the midst of loneliness / we have one little laugh ? (p.59).<br />Besides the poems, Watson has also included translations of excerpts  from Lu Yu's famous 'Diary of a trip to Shu' which was written in 1170 and describes the sights along the Grand Canal, the hair-raising experience of sailing through the Yangtze gorges, and the temples, shrines, and scenic spots he visited when travelling to take up the position of vice-governor of the province of K'uei-chou.  This is a  truly marvelous travel journal, and presents us with a vivid picture of life in central China in the twelfth century.  Here is a brief passage selected at random which described an event Lu Yu witnessed in the Ch'ien-tao 6th year (1170 A.D.) 12th month :<br />&quot;25th day :  I watched the troops staging a mock battle on the water. There were seven hundred large warships, each ... fitted out with walls and turrets.  Their flags and pennants shone brightly, their gongs and drums clattered and clanged as they raced back and forth, crashing through the huge waves as swiftly as though they had wings.  Thirty or forty thousand people came to watch - it was in fact one of the most spectacular sights in the world&quot; (p.100)<br />In addition to a typically interesting and informative Introduction,  and his usual light annotations to all selections, Watson has also provided a useful map of 'Places Important in the Life of Lu Yu,' along with some bibliographical information.  The book is small 8vo in size  (6 by 8.5 inches), beautifully printed on excellent paper, stitched,  and bound in full cloth.  <br />Lu Yu was a unique and interesting figure, and anyone who cares for Chinese poetry in English is certain enjoy this book.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R3BG72A1TKX767	0231096763	256472530	Classical Chinese Literature	Books	5	13	51	N	Y	Gorillas in the mist.	CLASSICAL CHINESE LITERATURE : An Anthology of Translations, Volume I : From Antiquity to the Tang Dynasty. Edited by John Minford and Joseph S. M. Lau. 1176 pp. New York and Hong Kong : Columbia University Press and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 2000.<br />Sometime in the 1950's, a committee of bureaucrats sat down in the People's Republic of China to create a new system of transliteration for the Chinese language. As Chinese Communists, they shared an extreme loathing for traditional 'feudalistic' Chinese culture. In addition, none of them of course were native users of the Roman alphabet. <br />The monstrous and deformed offspring of their lucubrations, which was approved at the 5th session of the National People's Congress on February 11th, 1958, is the system known as 'Hanyu pinyin.' Although a system designed by Chinese for Chinese, it was eagerly fastened upon and promoted by certain benighted elements of the Official West, and is, sad to say, the system of transliteration employed in the present book. <br />Pinyin has been condemned by no less an authority than scientist and sinologist Joseph Needham, distinguished author of the multi-volume 'Science and Civilization in China,' who described it as &quot;extremely repulsive.&quot; Others, too, have expressed disgust with it, including American author John Updike, a man remarkably knowledgeable about China, who finds it &quot;grotesque.&quot; <br />In contrast to the familiar, beautiful, sonorous and elegant names produced by the Wade-Giles system of romanization - names such as T'ao Chien, Hsieh Ling-yun, Hsiao Kang, Ch'u Kuang-hsi, and so on - pinyin gives us names which sound like they belong to a bunch of gorillas. Meet, for example, pinyin's &quot;Kong Rong&quot; (page 418), a distant relative presumably of King Kong. Meet too &quot;Cao Pi,&quot; son of &quot;Cao Cao&quot; (page 628), whose presence may account for the many instances of &quot;dung&quot; (or is it &quot;ding&quot; or &quot;dong&quot;?) scattered throughout the book. Meet them, that is, if you would rather visit Minford's Beijing than Waley's Peking.<br />Pinyin's uglification of China's past is bad enough, but it leads to a far larger and more serious problem. Sinologist Victor Mair, who in his own fine 'Columbia Anthology of Traditional Chinese Literature' (1994) made the correct and sensible decision to employ Wade-Giles, cautions us that:<br />&quot;. . . the vast bulk of scholarly writing in English about Chinese literature employs Wade-Giles romanization. It would be terribly confusing and difficult for students without any background in the study of Mandarin (the typical student who will use this [i.e., his own] book) to try to follow up the readings with any sort of research if another sort of romanization system were chosen&quot; (page xxxi).<br />So there you have it. PINYIN = Uglification + Confusion + a compounding of Difficulties, when anything to do with the study of China is already difficult enough. In other words, precisely what the Chinese Communists would have wanted : the beautiful made ugly, and the difficult made to look impossibly difficult to the general reader. <br />The only reason that editors Minford and Lau have condescended to offer us for the mess they have made in the present book is that pinyin is &quot;now widely used internationally&quot; (page lviii). In other words, dear general reader, it's trendy, and you're just going to have to bite the bullet and learn pinyin newspeak, or struggle with unpronounceables such as 'cen,' 'cuipin,' 'qiong,' 'xunzi,' or 'zhitui.'<br />A second problem with this book, since it lacks an index of titles, is that items can be impossible to find without searching through the entire 34-page Table of Contents. This difficulty is compounded by the Index of Authors, which is incomplete; amazingly it fails, for example, to mention Lao Tzu (Laozi), though extracts from the Tao Te Ching (but not its Chinese name) will be found on pages 202-206.<br />A third problem is that, judging by the pages of my own copy, there would seem to be a world shortage of printing ink. Instead of the print being crisp, clear, black, and readable, it's greyish. This makes it tiring and difficult to read (especially the footnotes which are printed in a miniscule font). It's rather like peering into a fog or mist.<br />A fourth problem is that there would also seem to be a world cotton shortage, since, despite its exorbitant price, the boards of this book are covered, not with cloth, but with mock cloth made of soft paper which is already showing signs of wear despite being brand new. But at least the printed pages are strong heavy stock, and the signatures are, as in real books, actually stitched.<br />As for the contents of this book (apart from their being liberally spattered with pinyin), they are, in a word, MAGNIFICENT! - Oracle Bones, Bronze Inscriptions, I Ching, Myths, Legends, Folksongs, Narrative and Philosophic Prose, Shamanistic Poems, Historical Wrings, Miscellaneous Prose, Women Poets, Drama, Literary Criticism, Ballads, Buddhist Writings, T'ang poets, Strange Tales, Zen and Taoist Poetry, etc., etc. <br />The book, in short, offers us a rich and brilliant selection of texts, in translations both literary (Pound, Waley, Rexroth, Snyder, etc.) and academic (Watson, Graham, Birch, Owen, etc.) - and contains almost every conceivable help and enhancement. These latter include full and informative introductions; extensive and useful annotations; numerous interesting black-and-white illustrations; seals; calligraphy; a few texts in the original Chinese; bibliographies; maps; an index of authors in both pinyin (full) and Wade-Giles (skimpy); and much else besides.<br />In sum, this book is clearly one of the richest and finest Anthologies of Classical Chinese Literature in English that we have ever seen. In terms of its contents it certainly deserves 5 stars. But in terms of the pinyin system which defaces thosecontents, a system which can be read with ease only by students of Mandarin - whereas if Wade-Giles had been used the book could have been read with ease by anyone - it deserves no more than a single star. Hence the 3 stars.<br />Who, after all, on opening a collection of writings by the refined, civilized, and highly intelligent ancient Chinese, wants to find instead a bunch of gorillas moving about in a mist ?	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R2DCQ64BOHUA7U	0811201805	993095465	One Hundred Poems from the Chinese (New Directions Book)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	True to the spirit, and valid as English poems.	ONE HUNDRED POEMS FROM THE CHINESE.  By Kenneth Rexroth.  148 pp. New York : New Directions, 1965 and Reissued.<br />The present book is in two parts.  First we are given Rexroth's  readings of thirty-five poems by Tu Fu, based on the Chinese text. The second part consists of a selection of Sung Dynasty poetry, most of which had not been Englished prior to Rexroth.<br />Rexroth makes no great claims for these translations, some of which he admits are rather free.  But he does express the hope that &quot;in all cases they are true to the spirit of the originals, and valid English poems&quot; (p.xi).<br />It has always seemed to me that Rexroth succeeded brilliantly.  Here are a few lines chosen at random from Tu Fu's 'Loneliness' (with my obliques added to indicate line breaks) :<br />&quot;.... Where the dew sparkles in the grass, / The spider's web waits for its prey. / The processes of nature resemble the business of men. / I stand alone with ten thousand sorrows&quot; (p.16).<br />Here are a few from Su Tung P'o :<br />&quot;.... As for literature, it is its own reward. / Fortunately fools pay little attention to it. / A chance for graft / Makes them blush with joy&quot; (p.73).<br />These readings of Rexroth will delight all open-minded readers.  Who cares if he wasn't a union-approved sinologist?  Purists may sputter, but since his versions are 'true to the spirit, and valid as English poems,' could any sensible person reasonably ask for more ?	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R398TWHHGDDF7D	0140442723	808293864	Li Po and Tu Fu: Poems Selected and Translated with an Introduction and Notes (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A unique and valuable introduction for beginners.	LI PO AND TU FU : Poems Selected and Translated with an Introduction and Notes by Arthur Cooper.  Chinese Calligraphy by Shui Chien-tung. (Penguin Classics).  249 pp.  Penguin 1973, and Reissued.<br />This is a valuable book in many ways.  Besides giving a selection of enjoyable translations of China's two greatest poets - Li Po (+ 701-762, 25 poems) and Tu Fu (+ 712-770, 18 poems), it also  includes a remarkably full and informative Introduction of almost  100 pages which not only serves to introduce beginners to the subject of Chinese poetry, and to the work of Li Po and Tu Fu in particular, but which could also be read with profit by others.<br />Each of the 43 poems is followed by an explanatory comment, which can  range in length from paragraph to essay form.  The book also includes a Guide to the Pronunciation of Chinese Words and Names, and, since twelve of the poems are accompanied by the Chinese text in the striking  calligraphy of Shui Chien-tung, a Note on Chinese Calligraphy has been  provided by the artist for the benefit of those who may not be familiar  with the nature and history of this fascinating art form.<br />Shui Chien-tung has &quot;adopted a manner influenced by Chinese bronze inscriptions [and] has also followed various styles of writing to suit the different poems&quot; (pp.13-14).  The result is a clear style which  in most cases will cause no problems for anyone who may be studying  Chinese characters, since the structure of even the more complex characters can easily be discerned.<br />Here, as an example of Cooper's style (with my obliques added to  indicate line breaks), is the first of two 'sonnets' of Tu Fu's 'At  an Evening Picnic, with Young Bucks and Beauties' :<br />&quot;Sunset's the time to take the boat out / When a light breeze raises slow ripples, / Bamboo-hidden is the picnic place / And lotus-fresh in the evening cool; // But while the bucks are mixing iced drinks / And beauties snow a lotus salad, / A slip of cloud comes black overhead : / Before it rains my sonnet must end !&quot; (p.163)<br />Cooper's reading nicely evokes the lighthearted amusements of spoiled  and wealthy youth, out on the cool water with a party of singing girls for an evening of companionship and pleasure after the heat of the day.<br />Cooper's anthology has an excellent Introduction, is of manageable  size, well-translated, helpfully annotated, uniquely illustrated with Shui Chien-tung's calligraphy, and has other useful features.  It  would make a good introduction for anyone new to Chinese poetry, and  it can also be read with interest by anyone wishing to extend their knowledge of Li Po and Tu Fu.<br />Those who, after reading it, would like to explore further and learn about some of China's other great writers, might take a look at the excellent anthology by Cyril Birch, another book I can strongly recommend:<br />ANTHOLOGY OF CHINESE LITERATURE : From early times to the fourteenth century.  Compiled and edited by Cyril Birch.  Associate editor Donald Keene.  492 pp.  New York : Grove Press, 1965, and Reissued.black overhead : / Before it rains my sonnet must end !&quot; (p.163)<br />Cooper's reading nicely evokes the lighthearted amusements of spoiled  and wealthy youth, out on the cool water with a party of singing girls for an evening of companionship and pleasure after the heat of the day.<br />Cooper's anthology has an excellent Introduction, is of manageable  size, well-translated, helpfully annotated, uniquely illustrated with Shui Chien-tung's calligraphy, and has other useful features.  It  would make a good introduction for anyone new to Chinese poetry, and  it can also be read with interest by anyone wishing to extend their knowledge of Li Po and Tu Fu. <br />Those who, after reading it, would like to explore further and learn about some of China's other great writers, might take a look at the excellent anthology by Cyril Birch, another book I can strongly recommend:<br />ANTHOLOGY OF CHINESE LITERATURE : From early times to the fourteenth century.  Compiled and edited by Cyril Birch.  Associate editor Donald Keene.  492 pp.  New York : Grove Press, 1965, and Reissued.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R9MP7GP5R1BCF	0811211002	751499128	The Selected Poems of Tu Fu	Books	4	36	37	N	N	A handy introduction for newcomers to Tu Fu.	THE SELECTED POEMS OF TU FU.  Translated by David Hinton.  173 pp. New York : New Directions, 1989, and Reissued.<br />Tu Fu (712-790) was one of China's greatest poets, and the present book, after a brief 9-page Introduction, gives us a comprehensive selection  of his poems, arranged chronologically, annotated, and in adequate translations of varying degrees of success. <br />Here is an example of Hinton's style, the first four lines of an eight-line poem, selected at random from the poem 'Skies Clear at Dusk'  (and with my obliques added to indicate line breaks) :<br />&quot;Dusk's failing flare breaks out.  Clouds / Thin and drift - none return.  Distant, / Bright, a rainbow drinks at the river. / Rain in the gorge falls - remnants scatter&quot; (p.78).<br />Tu Fu is not an easy poet to translate, and readers with access to David Hawke's bilingual edition of Tu Fu, or to A. C. Graham's 'Poems  of the Late T'ang, might find it interesting to compare Hinton's approach with theirs.<br />His book, which also includes a useful 17-page Biography which is keyed to the poems, quite full Notes, a Finding List, a Bibliography,  and an Index of Titles and First Lines, would make a handy introduction for anyone new to Tu Fu.  <br />But if, after reading it, you'd really like to discover what lies  behind Tu Fu's poetry, and learn something of how his poetry works,  you might take a look at the excellent bilingual anthology by  Wai-lim Yip which contains a detailed treatment of a number of  Tu Fu's  poems.  Details are as follows :<br />CHINESE POETRY : An Anthology of Major Modes and Genres.  Edited and translated by Wai-lim Yip.  358 pp.  Durham NC and London : Duke University Press, 1997.  ISBN 0-8223-1951-9 (pbk.)	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R86455M5OW4RU	0674637127	459511438	The Art of Shakespeare's Sonnets	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautifully produced, with critical analysis of each sonnet.	THE ART OF SHAKESPEARE'S SONNETS.  By Helen H. Vendler. 692 pp. 1999. (pbk.) <br />Shakespeare's 'Sonnets' is a deservedly well-loved body of poetry, and there have been innumerable editions.  For the student and enthusiast, however, it's doubtful that there could be a more  beautifully produced edition than the present book, although the  critical essays that accompany each sonnet will probably prove   too difficult for most non-specialists.<br />One reason that Elizabethan lyrics are so powerful and memorable, is that they were composed in an age when poetry was still linked closely with music.  Elizabethans were often competent musicians, and many of their poems were true lyrics or songs.  Often their poems were set to music, and all were probably composed while the gentle plucking of a lute or some such instrument was running somewhere through the back of the poet's mind.  <br />Today we live in an age when composers are no longer giving us real songs, songs that stay in the mind and that can be hummed or sung when  for some reason or other they rise into consciousness; songs that are  always there when we feel like singing, and that can help cheer us up,  make us happy, and refresh our spirit; songs, too, for both light and  more thoughtful moods.  <br />In contrast to this true type of song, what we seem to be getting  today is little more than words with little or no meaning accompanied  by noise, the sort of stuff that a machine could write and probably  is writing, and profoundly unmemorable.  <br />Shakespeare's 'Sonnets,' however, bring us a world of meaning.  The  whole of life is in them - its joys and sorrows, its passions and frustrations and torments - and all expressed in some of the most  sonorous and beautiful English ever written, and set to powerful  rhythms that deeply penetrate the psyche.<br />Helen Vendler's edition, in addition to the accompanying essays, and  like that of Stephen Booth's prize-winning 'Shakespeare's Sonnets,'  gives us notone but two texts of the 'Sonnets,' each of which is  given on facing pages : a facsimile of the original 1609 Quarto, and Vendler's edited text with modern spelling and punctuation.  <br />Seeing the texts exactly as they were presented to Shakespeare's  contemporaries is an interesting experience.  Some readers will  probably love the antique spellings and typography, other may hate  it, but at least we've been given a choice.  And having access to  the Quarto can lead to a deeper understanding of the poems.<br />Vendler's commentary is a commentary for the advanced student and the scholar.  Some will find it useful and informative, even brilliant. Others will be put off by her post-structuralist approach.  But even  those who don't care for her densely packed and technical commentary,  will certainly be impressed by how beautifully produced this book  is - by its excellent printing and smooth high-quality paper, and by  the large clear fonts which do justice to Shakespeare's texts, and  which make reading the 'Sonnets' such a pleasure in this edition.  <br />The fact that their lines stick so  easily in our minds, and that the re-reading of favorites will soon  see us having memorized, if not the  whole sonnet then certainly  substantial portions of it, seems to me  proof that the 'Sonnets' are  real sustenance for the spirit.  They help at different times to   to fortify our spirit, to clarify our own thoughts about life, and  even on occasions to cheer us up.  <br />As such, and whether we realize it or not, they become a kind of word-music  that all of us need.  So whether you go for the Vendler or the Booth,  or for some other more manageable and less ambitious edition, my advice  would be to give Shakespeare's words a chance to work their magic.  You may be surprised at what they can do for you.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R2164EXE98Z1NL	0865474567	896636290	Riprap and Cold Mountain Poems	Books	5	55	61	N	N	&quot;Drinking cold snow-water from a tin cup.&quot;	Amidst the poetry of the Sixties, Gary Snyder's early poems stood out  as something very special, and are still very special.  In contrast to the obscure and convoluted writings of an assortment of neurasthenic, super-sophisticated, and compulsive scribblers, types so totally and utterly wrapped up in themselves that they completely overlooked that insignificant thing hovering outside their window (ordinary folks call it the universe), and whose work goes unread  because it is largely unreadable, Snyder's work came as a revelation.<br />Here was a poet who was very, very different - a poet who, far from  being totally wrapped up in himself, was instead wrapped up in the  universe.  He appeals to us because, being himself wholly in touch with reality, he helps us get back in touch with reality ourselves.  Ego is put firmly in its place, opening up a space in which the myriad  things can come forward and announce themselves.<br />The secret of how Snyder was able to do this, of how he was able to  bring us, not yet another of those obscure, tortured and anguished sensibilities who were and still are so thick on the ground, but who  brought instead a sane and wholesome vision of the world, is all there  in the very first poem of RIPRAP, 'Mid-August at Sourdough Mountain Lookout' :<br />&quot;Down valley a smoke haze / Three days heat, after five days rain / Pitch glows on the fir-cones / Across rocks and meadows / Swarms of new flies. //  I cannot remember things I once read / A few friends,  but they are in cities. / Drinking cold snow-water from a tin cup /  Looking down for miles / Through high still air&quot; (p.9).<br />Where did Snyder learn how to do this?  The answer is that it could  only have been in China.  The poem is the perfect expression, in  English, of that commonsensical attitude that grounds itself firmly in  realities; that keeps ego firmly under control; that practises a  reasonable, as opposed to an excessive, use of reason; and that is  commonlyfound in the best Chinese and Zen poets.  <br />To translate Zen-man Han Shan, Snyder penetrated so deeply into the  spirit of Han Shan that he succeeded in becoming a sort of American  Han Shan himself.  The result is a poetry not of coteries, of academic  and intellectual circles, of super-sophisticated and pretentious Ivy  League graduates, but poems that have real meaning and that can be  read with understanding and enjoyment by anyone<br />The poetry of RIPRAP and COLD MOUNTAIN, like the poetry of many Chinese and Japanese poets, is a wholesome poetry, a poetry that cleanses and refreshes the sensibility, and that transports us from the technoid madness of our own chaotic world to something more human and hence more meaningful.<br />There's real sustenance for the spirit in these poems.  They're like  &quot;drinking cold snow-water from a tin cup.&quot;  Readers would be unwise to pass them by.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R2ZQXH1QPGG3S4	9993719498	999931373	Poems of Wang Wei	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A useful introduction for newcomers to Wang Wei.	POEMS OF WANG WEI : Translated with an Introduction by G. W. Robinson. 144 pp. (Penguin Classics).  Penguin Books 1973, and Reissued.<br />Wang Wei (+ 699-761) is one of the greatest poets in Chinese  literature.  During his life he experienced a number of political upheavals, and divided his time between the court and his country estate, where he drew inspiration from his beautiful natural surroundings and solitude.  His poems, though deceptively simple,  can conceal real depths, and, since he was a Buddhist, some exposure to Buddhist thought may be necessary to fully appreciate some of them.<br />The present book, after a brief 12-page Introduction, gives us over one hundred of Wang Wei's poems, lightly annotated and in adequate translations which are of varying degrees of success.  Here is an example of Cooper's style at his best (with my obliques added to indicate line breaks), a short poem entitled 'Return to the  Wang River' :<br />&quot;Distant bell sounding at the mouth of the valley / Fewer and fewer the fishermen and woodmen / Away in the far mountains it is evening / And I am going alone towards the white clouds home / Water-chestnut flowers so delicate so hardly still / Willow catkins so light so easily fly / Colours of spring on the banks of the marsh to the east / And I am melancholy as I shut my door&quot; (p.63).<br />The book, which also includes a brief Bibliography and finding numbers for all the poems, would make a useful introduction for anyone new to Wang Wei.  But if, after reading it, you'd really like to discover what lies behind Wang Wei's seeming simplicity, and learn something of how his poetry works, you might take a look at the excellent  bilingual anthology by Wai-lim Yip which contains a detailed treatment of a number of his poems.  Details are as follows :<br />CHINESE POETRY : An Anthology of Major Modes and Genres.  Edited and translated by Wai-lim Yip.  358 pp.  Durham NC and London : Duke University Press, 1997.  ISBN 0-8223-1951-9 (pbk.)	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R2M0RYVVTTN6R0	0231034504	857280816	Cold Mountain: 100 Poems by the T'ang poet Han-Shan	Books	5	31	32	N	N	&quot;Cold cliffs, more beautiful the deeper you enter...&quot;	Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a fine translator.  He wears his scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter.  His many translations from Chinese and Japanese Literature are of uniformly high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often returns to. <br />What little is known of the eccentric hermit Han Shan will be found in Watson's brief, interesting and informative Introduction.  The book then goes on to offer a selection of one hundred of Han Shan's 8-line poems which provide us with glimpses of the poet's life on 'Cold Mountain,'  and his thoughts and feelings about reality, life, and the world in  general.  Here is a brief example, with my obliques added to indicate  line breaks :<br />&quot;Cold cliffs, more beautiful the deeper you enter - / Yet no one travels this road. / White clouds idle about the tall crags; / On the green peak a single monkey wails. / What other companions do I need ? / I grow old doing as I please. / Though face and form alter with the years, / I hold fast to the pearl of the mind&quot; (p.73).<br />The first line here reminds me of a famous haiku by Santoka Taneda, one of Japan's best loved poets and also a Zen-man like Han Shan. A translation of it will be found in John Steven's marvelous edition  of Santoka, who translates: <br />&quot;Going deeper / And still deeper - / The green mountains.&quot;<br />I think that both Han Shan and Santoka were getting at the same thing. Stevens comments:  &quot;Deeper and deeper into the human heart without being able to fathom its depth. . . .&quot; ('Mountain Tasting,' p.37).  <br />The human heart, yes, but also self, nature, time, reality, the mystery  of existence, &quot;the pearl of the mind,&quot; and, ultimately, the world of Buddha, or, for others, God.  And deeper into the poems too  as, to borrow the words of Robert Bly, &quot;Baskets that Hold God.&quot;<br />Although Watson's 'Han Shan' is anearly work, it's wonderfully readable and his translations are of a quality that put him pretty  well on a level with US poet Gary Snyder, who has also done a  translation of Han Shan's poems.  They will be found in his book,  'Riprap and Cold Mountain Poems,' and readers might find it  interesting to compare the versions of these two very different  translators, one an academic and the other a Zen adept.  <br />Both Watson and Snyder are excellent in their different ways, and either would serve the needs of anyone who hasn't yet had the good  fortune to read Han Shan.  Read him once and you'll love him and  never forget him.  He's a fount of wisdom and very human, and his poems can be read with enjoyment by anyone.  <br />And if you like Han Shan,  as I'm sure you will, take a look at Santoka as you'll almost  certainly like him too.  In Han Shan and Santoka we see life and  truth as reflected in two very special sensibilities, and we can  all learn a lot from both.<br />Details of John Stevens' book are as follows : <br />MOUNTAIN TASTING : ZEN HAIKU BY SANTOKA TANEDA. Translated by John Stevens. 126 pp. New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1980 and Reprinted.	2001-06-20
US	50869571	R23EC0U072RK07	0679722963	81313790	The Analects of Confucius	Books	5	112	128	N	N	&quot;A proper man is inclusive, not sectary.&quot;	THE ANALECTS OF CONFUCIUS.  Translated and annotated by Arthur Waley. 257 pp.  New York : Vintage Books, nd.  Originally published by  George, Allen, &amp; Unwin, 1938.<br />Classical Chinese is an extremely concise and  highly ambiguous  language.  Since any given line can have a wide range of possible and equally valid meanings, there can in fact be no such thing as a definitive interpretation, and hence, as Burton Watson has pointed out, no such thing as a definitive translation, although Arthur Waley's scholarly reading of this important Confucian classic is possibly as close to 'definitive' as we're ever likely to get.<br />What we may overlook when considering Confucianism, however, is that it represented an ideology very much like Marxism, one imposed by an all-powerful bureaucracy on a not-always willing population.  As ideological documents of the highest importance, since they served to justify the existence of the Imperial system, works such as the 'Analects' were often engraved on stone.<br />And it's interesting to  note that, in the many popular uprisings which have riven China, the stone tablets and drums on which the 'Analects' and other Classics were engraved often became the first target of the mob's fury. They were regularly smashed and pulverized, only to be re-engraved on new stones when the Mandarinate re-established its  authority.<br />In addition, it goes without saying that the Communist Party, which is as  it were China's modern 'Mandarinate,' also takes a very dim view of the Chinese Classics, seeing them as relics of a detested feudalistic past, a detestation not perhaps untinged with envy, since the Mandarinate was the most efficient, successful and long-lasting bureaucracy in human history.<br />None of this, perhaps, need bother the modern reader as opposed to the scholar, since we go to these old books to discover in them what relevance they may have for our lives today, and there is much real wisdom in Confucius that anyone can benefit from.<br />Arthur Waley's edition, while scholarly, is not so cluttered with scholarly impedimenta as to be unapproachable by the general reader,  and is written in a style that remains relatively modern.  After a  brief Preface, he gives us an interesting and informative 66-page  Introduction.  Then follows his extensively annotated translation,  and the book is rounded out with an Index.<br />Though Waley was undoubtedly a brilliant translator, I was weaned on Ezra Pound's more lively and idiosyncratic version, and although I've read and compared both translations, the lines that tend to stick in my mind are invariably those of Pound, lines such as:<br />&quot;He said : A proper man is inclusive, not sectary; the small man is sectarian and not inclusive&quot; (Book II, xiv).<br />For the same passage Waley gives:<br />&quot;The Master said, A gentleman can see a question from all sides without bias.  The small man is biased and can see a question only from one side&quot; (p.91).<br />Both, so far as I can see, mean pretty much the same thing, although Waley is a bit more prosy and takes almost twice as many words to say it.  Pound's edition, besides its greater punch, also has the merit of being relatively free of distracting footnotes, and of including two additional and very powerful texts, along with beautiful reproductions of them from the stone Classics.<br />Waley and Pound give us Confucius as filtered through two highly intelligent though different sensibilities, both of them valuable. My advice would be to read both.  For those who may be interested, here are details of Pound's edition:<br />CONFUCIUS : THE GREAT DIGEST, THE UNWOBBLING PIVOT, THE  ANALECTS.  Translation and Commentary by Ezra Pound.  Stone  Text from rubbings supplied by William Hawley.  288 pp.  New York: New Directions, 1951 and Reissued.<br />It is in Pound's translation of 'The Great Digest' that we find the  striking line:  &quot;If the root be in confusion, nothing will be wellgoverned&quot; (p.33).  And who would want to miss a line that has such a powerful relevance to the world that we see around us today ?be well governed&quot; (p.33).  And who would want to miss a line that has such a powerful relevance to the world that we see around us today ?	2001-06-19
US	50869571	RJPG9KFMFJSGS	1556590644	479313151	Selected Poems of Su Tung-P'o	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A poetry that cleanses and refreshes the sensibility.	SELECTED POEMS OF SU TUNG-P'O : Translated from the Chinese by Burton Watson.  148 pp.  Port Townsend, WA : Copper Canyon Press,  1994.  ISBN 1-55659-064-4 (pbk.)<br />Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a fine translator. Unlike certain others, he wears his scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter. His many translations from Chinese and Japanese Literature are of uniformly high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often wants to returns to. <br />The present book, after a typically brief but interesting and informative introduction which provides all we really need before diving into the poems, gives us translations of 105 of Su Tung-p'o's poems, lightly annotated and beautifully printed on spacious pages.<br />Su Tung-p'o is one of China's greatest poets, and Watson has outdone himself here. The wrapper includes a highly laudatory appreciation by Gary Snyder, and it's easy to see why. Watson has always been a brilliant translator, and a true artist with words, but in this book he has lifted himself into the ranks of the very best, and has produced translations indistinguishable in quality from those of Snyder himself.<br />Here, as an example of his marvelous control of tone, thought, feeling, image, rhythm, and sound, are the opening lines of poem 52 (with my obliques added to indicate line breaks) - 'Reading the Poetry of Meng Chiao' :<br />&quot;Night : reading Meng Chiao's poems, / characters fine as cow's hair. / By the cold lamp, my eyes blur and swim. / Good passages I rarely find - / lone flowers poking up from the mud - / But more hard words than the Odes or Li Sao - / jumbled rocks clogging the clear stream, / making rapids too swift for poling. / My first impression is of eating little fishes. . . . &quot; (p.70).<br />What we find here is what Burton Watson, in his 'Columbia Book of Chinese Poetry' (1984), has described as &quot;a freshness and immediacy thatis often quite miraculous&quot; (p.3). <br />Not poems about airy notions and exalted abstractions, then, but poems describing events from daily life, poems recording the scenes of a journey, poems expressing grief, joy, boredom, or irritation as here, poems both serious and funny and by someone who is in many ways like ourselves.<br />Su Tung-p'o's is a wholesome poetry, a poetry that cleanses and refreshes the sensibility, and that translates us from the technoid madness of our own chaotic world to something more human and hence more nourishing. There's real food for the spirit in these poems. Watson has done them full justice. Sensitive readers would be unwise to pass them by.	2001-06-19
US	50869571	RFB39DVKT5Z3M	0834802570	603043966	Pilgrim of the Clouds: Poems and Essays from Ming China (Inklings)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	For those who like poetry, and those who think they don't.	PILGRIM OF THE CLOUDS : Poems and essays by Yuan Hung-tao and his brothers.  Translated and introduced by Jonathan Chaves.  143 pp. New York &amp; Tokuo : Weatherhill, 1978 and Reissued.  ISBN 0-08348-0134-5 (pbk.)<br />Most of us have heard of  Tu Fu, Meng Chiao, Han Yu, Li Ho, Tu Mu,  and Li Shang-yin, but how many of us have ever heard of Yuan Hung-tao?  Very few, and the reason for this, as Jonathan Chaves explains in his fine Introduction, is the tendency of translators to concentrate on the poetry of the T'ang dynasty (608-906) while ignoring much fine later work.  <br />Chaves explains : &quot;Even many Chinese critics appear to assume that the Yuan, Ming, and Ch'ing dynasties produced nothing in poetry that can compare with earlier achievements&quot; (p.11).  This received notion, so  far as Chaves is concerned, is simply not true, and he has set out to help redress the balance by offering us a selection of both poems and essays from one of the major poets and essayists of the Ming period and his brothers.<br />In doing so, Chaves has given us a book which is perfect for those who like poetry.  It is also perfect for those who think they don't, because here we find none of that obscurity, that intellectualism, that egoism and striving after universal meanings, etc.,  which succeeds in putting so many English readers off their own poetry.<br />Instead we find what Burton Watson, in his own very fine 'Columbia Book of Chinese Poetry' (1984), has described as &quot;a freshness and immediacy that is often quite miraculous,&quot; because Chinese poetry, no matter of what dynasty, is a poetry that is &quot;unusually ... commonsensical in tone&quot; (p.3).  <br />What he really means, although he's too polite to say so, is that their heads were not quite so filled  with airy notions.  Not poems about exalted abstractions, then, but  poems describing events from daily life, poems recording the scenes  of a journey, poems expressing grief, joy, boredom, and by someone who in many ways is like ourselves.<br />The present book can be opened anywhere and enjoyed by anyone.  The  poems are every bit as good as we have come to expect from the best Chinese poets, and the essays are full of simply expressed but keen  observations such as the following:<br />&quot;The good painter learns from things, not other painters.  The good philosopher learns from his mind, not from some doctrine.  The good  poet learns from the panoply of images, not from writers of the past&quot; (p.13).<br />Although I got this book for its poems, I found that the essays were every bit as enjoyable and interesting.  Here are a few lines from the essay, 'Raising Crickets' :<br />&quot;In the capital, people in every family keep crickets as pets during the seventh and eighth months. . . .  I once had two of them in cages, which I hung from the eaves.  Their piercing chirps penetrated the night, mournful, extraordinary - purifying my ears&quot; (p.84).<br />The book is beautifully printed on excellent paper, and is illustrated with halftone reproductions of Chinese paintings from various sources which serve to enhance the writings.  Poems, essays, and paintings work together to give us a unified whole that, like the chirps of Yuan's crickets, will help purify the sensibility of anyone who gives them a chance.<br />One is grateful to Chaves for having given us a marvelous book that  can be enjoyed by anyone who would like, for a few blissful moments,  to get their heads out of the technoid grind of the modern chaos and  be restored to something sane, wholly human, and utterly compelling.	2001-06-19
US	50869571	R279OSUXYAQ5TM	0253206073	457159976	Sunflower Splendor: Three Thousand Years of Chinese Poetry (Midland Book)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A substantial anthology with an academic flavor.	SUNFLOWER SPLENDOR : Three Thousand Years of Chinese Poetry.  Co-edited by Wu-chu Liu and Irving Yucheng Lo.  631 pp.  Bloomington &amp; London :  Indiana University Press, 1975 and Reissued. <br />In the present book, co-editors Wu-chu Liu, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature at Indiana University, and Irving Yucheng Lo,  Professor and Chairman of the Department of East Asian Languages and  Cultures at Indiana University, have assembled a collection of about  one thousand Chinese poems in English translations.<br />All of the poems were translated by specialists, checked by the editors against the Chinese originals, and criticized and discussed with the contributor before a final version was selected.  We are told that &quot;the contributors are mostly East Asian specialists on the faculty of American and Canadian colleges and universities, or younger scholars who have received many years of graduate training in the language&quot;  (p.ix).  <br />The editors also tell us that they have &quot;aimed, within the limitation of space, at inclusiveness by giving balanced representation to all major genres and periods and, within each, the chief exponents of major schools of Chinese poetry&quot; (p.ix) - no easy task when we consider that extant T'ang poetry alone runs to almost 49,000 poems by 2,300 poets.  But all of the well-known names are here in annotated selections - T'ao Ch'ien, Han Shan, Wang Wei, Li Po, Tu Fu, Po Chu-yi, etc., - as well as many less familiar names.<br />After a Preface, a brief but informative Introduction, a section of 'Explanations' which contains a handy list of abbreviations for their main sources (e.g., YSW Yi shih-wen), and a detailed 32-page Table of Contents, the main body of the book follows, chronologically ordered into six parts.<br />One very useful feature of the book, for students who would like to consult the original Chinese texts, is that precise source references have been given for all poems (e.g., CTS, P.2476).  Later, editors  Liu and Lo did publish a Chinese-language edition of the present book which contained all of the original Chinese texts, but unfortunately  I cannot remember the details. <br />The book is rounded out with a detailed period-by-period Bibliography; an extremely useful 90 pages of 'Background on Poets and poems' which provides biographical information that can sometimes be a big help in undertanding some of the poems; two additional Appendices; and an Index  of Authors.  The book is 8vo in size (6.5 by 9.5 inches), well-printed  in a clear, readable font on spacious pages of excellent paper,  stitched, and bound in full cloth - in other words, a real book.<br />What it gives us is a substantial collection, with a strong academic flavor, of Chinese poems in accurate translations by academic specialists.  But, as everyone knows, specialists may be of two kinds. On the one hand there are brilliant scholar-translators of the caliber of Burton Watson, a few of whose translations are featured in the book; on the other hand there are translators who, though undoubtedly equally  as sincere as Watson, are considerably less inspired.  <br />Unfortunately the book lacks an Index to its more than fifty contributors, and so it's hard to gage the relative proportions of these two very different kinds of contributors, but my impression is that, as is usually the case with  such anthologies, there are somewhat more of the latter than the former.<br />'Sunflower Splendor' is in many ways a useful and excellent book, and  one appreciates the arduous labors that must have gone into it.   Beginning students of Classical Chinese who are able to find the companion volume of Chinese texts will have in these two volumes a virtual library of Chinese poetry that should be enough to keep them happy for a long time.	2001-06-19
US	50869571	RK6YQYZ8ANWVE	0865470847	378376055	Goddesses, Ghosts, and Demons: The Collected Poems of Li He (Li Chang-Ji, 790-816) (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Exploring in depth a unique and wholly unforgettable figure.	J. D. Frodsham is Reader in Chinese at the Australian National University, and this is a scholarly edition with an extremely interesting and informative Introduction, and with extensively annotated translations of 242 of Li He's [Li Ho's] poems.  The book also includes a Finding List, a Bibliography (with sinographs) of the 'Major Extant Chinese and Japanese Editions,' an additional Bibliography of 'Sources' and 'Books and Articles on Li He,' and is rounded out with a very full and detailed Index.<br />Frodsham tells us that Li He, who died when he was twenty-six after failing the Imperial examinations which would have qualified him for an official appointment in China's ruling bureaucracy, &quot;was a man ravaged by sickness and disappointment.  He seems to have suffered a severe illness - perhaps a nervous breakdown - consequent upon his failure to attain his degree&quot; (p.xxii).<br />His poems are highly allusive - hence the need for extensive annotations - and have a grim and haunted quality.  Here is the central stanza of his 'Song of the Old Jade-hunter' (with my  obliques added to indicate line breaks) - a powerfully moving poem about the men who lived in hunger and extreme poverty, and who risked their lives, hanging from cliffs over raging torrents, to collect the precious substance that would later  be carved into expensive art objects for the delectation of Chinese connoisseurs:<br />&quot;On rainy nights, on the ridge of a hill, / He sups on hazel nuts, /  Like the blood that wells from the cuckoo's maw / Are the old man's tears. / The waters of Indigo river are gorged / With human lives; / After a thousand years the dead / Still loathe these torrents&quot; (p.79).<br />Frodsham's translations, though not quite in the class of a Burton Watson or A. C. Graham, read on the whole rather well, and do serve to suggest something of the power and feeling of the originals. But to be fully appreciated they need to be read along with his  annotations.<br />Li Heoffers us a vision of ancient China, and of life, that is very different to the gentler and more restrained one we are accustomed to, and one that is possibly truer.  His poems have a very special and unforgettable atmosphere.  And so far as I know,  Frodsham's is the only full-length book in English devoted to his work.  As such  it becomes something to be very grateful for, and a book that should be read by anyone who is interested in extending their understanding of Chinese poetry by exploring in depth a unique and wholly unforgettable figure.	2001-06-19
US	50869571	R13Z76B79YC0GG	0877739218	835229188	The Art of Worldly Wisdom (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	How to avoid all those dumb mistakes.	THE ART OF WORLDLY WISDOM.  Adapted from the translation by JOSEPH JACOBS.  Unabridged.  Shambhala Pocket Classics.  283 pp.  Boston &amp;  London : Shambhala, 1993.  ISBN 0-87773-921-8 (pbk.)<br />Balthasar Gracian's 'The Art of Worldly Wisdom' is a collection of 300 brief maxims, most of which take up only a single page or less of this small book.  His maxims teach us the art of getting  along in the world.<br />Gracian must have been a singularly wise person.  Those who are lucky enough to discover his book before making all the major mistakes of their lives should count themselves very lucky, because what the author sets out to do is to teach us, in a very clear and easy-to-understand way, how to avoid all those dumb  mistakes.<br />You can open this book at any page and, if you are young, find out  what you most definitely shouldn't (or should) be doing.  And if you are old you will probably find yourself reading about all the things in your life that you shouldn't (or should) have done, and that you wouldn't (or would) have done if there had been someone as wise as  Gracian around to advise you - and _if_ you had followed their advice.<br />Here, chosen at random, are a few of his maxims :  83.  Allow yourself some forgiveable sin.  141.  Do not listen to yourself.  250.  When to turn the conversation around.  252.  Neither belong  entirely to yourself nor entirely to others.  3.  Keep matters for  a time in suspense.  36.  Before acting or refraining, weigh your luck.  69.  Do not give way to every common impulse.  195.  Put up with fools. 262.  Be able to forget.<br />Each of these maxims is fully developed and explained in the text which follows the maxim, and you are going to be amazed that anyone could have figured out so much.  A handy complete list of the maxims is given on pages 261-81.<br />Physically, the Shambhala Pocket Classic Edition of 'The Art of  Worldly Wisdom' is an attractive book, and at just 7.5 cm by 11.5 cm is small enough to fit into the smallest purse or pocket. It is well-printed, in two colors, on excellent paper, is sturdily  bound in stiff decorative wraps, and is even stitched.<br />So if you think it's time you got your act straightened out, let Gracian show you how.  You'd be hard put to find better counsel than his.the smallest purse or pocket. It is well-printed, in two colors, on excellent paper, is sturdily  bound in stiff decorative wraps, and is even stitched. <br />So if you think it's time you got your act straightened out, let Gracian show you how.  You'd be hard put to find better counsel than his.	2001-06-18
US	50869571	R3136LLJS1D8AF	0802150381	822519464	1: Anthology of Chinese Literature: Volume I: From Early Times to the Fourteenth Century	Books	5	104	106	N	N	The best available anthology for the newcomer.	ANTHOLOGY OF CHINESE LITERATURE : From early times to the fourteenth century.  Compiled and edited by Cyril Birch.  Associate editor Donald Keene.  492 pp.  New York : Grove Press, 1965.<br />Birch's anthology has always been one of my favorite books.  In  contrast to the more recent mammoth compilations of Victor Mair (1335 pages) and John Minford (1176 pages), the Birch, at a mere 492 pages, is a far more modest and manageable proposition.  <br />Unlike the Mair and Minford, it can be held easily in the hand while reading, and it is printed in a large clear font on spacious pages in  which the lines have room to breathe.  Modest in size it is also modest  in presentation.  Selections are preceded by only the briefest of  introductions, and footnotes have been kept to a minimum.<br />The Birch is also unlike the former two anthologies in that it has restricted itself to contributions from just twenty-one translators, most of them well-known names such as A. C. Graham, Donald Keene, Ezra Pound, Arthur Waley, Gary Snyder, and Burton Watson.  In other words, its complement of translators is not swelled by a substantial contingent of second-tier, relatively unknown, and sincere  though not particularly inspired academic translators.  <br />One happy consequence of this is that the Birch, although in terms of quantity it holds perhaps only a third as much material or  less than the Mair or Minford, has a higher relative proportion of quality translations.  In other words,  most of its selections actually read, not so much as 'translations' but  as good literature - the tone, feelings, imagery, rhythms, and control  of sound are what we expect to find in original works.  Anything less  than such excellence is, of course, hardly worth bothering with, and  there is a lot of such excellence in the Birch.<br />As for Birch's selections, he seems to have struck a nice balance  between prose and  poetry of different kinds.  We are given, for  example, thirty-three poems from the 'Book of Songs,' some rendered  by Waley and others by Pound.  We also find such things as 'The Songs of Ch'u;' the Taoist Chuang Tzu; Burton Watson's 'Grand Historian'  SSu-ma Ch'ien; Rhyme Prose; Letters; Satires; the Poetry of the Recluse;  the great T'ang poets Wang Wei, Li Po, and Tu Fu; Prose Essays; T'ang  Short Stories; other great poets such as Li Ho and Li Shang-yin, as well  as many other fine but lesser known writers.  <br />The book also includes a substantial selection from the Sung Dynasty,  and is rounded out with two Yuan Dynasty plays, an extract from the  Yuan novel, 'The Men of the Marshes,' and a modest but useful Bibliography which offers a number of suggestions for further reading.<br />There is an enormous amount of pleasure to be had from this book, and instruction too.  For in reading it we learn a great deal about the sensibility of a people who have been described by Pierre Ryckmans, not without some justice, as &quot;the most intelligent people in the world&quot; ('Chinese Shadows,' Viking, 1977).    One of my great favorites in the Birch anthology has always been the  brilliant 'Essay on Literature' ('Wen fu') by Lu Chi (+ 754-805).  Here  is a line from Shih-hsiang Chen's admirable translation (p.208) :<br />&quot;The argument (shuo) with glowing words and cunning parables persuades.&quot;<br />What Lu Chi seems to be saying is that &quot;theses are convincing, but deceptive.&quot;  As such the line becomes a caution against trusting too much in theses and 'rational' argument, a caution against lending ourselves too readily to what Lin Yutang has called an excessive, as  opposed to a more reasonable, use of reason.  Lu Chi's are words that  a Cartesian and ever more Frenchified West, with its slick and  deodorized armies of specialists, analysts, and technicians, would do  well to take to heart if the relentless Juggernaut of Reason now  underway isn't to end up crushing everything beneath its wheels.<br />For anyone who would liketo get a good idea of what Chinese Literature is all about, and to actually enjoy the experience of finding out, there could be no better book than Cyril Birch's anthology.  The Mair and  Minford are all very well in their way and serve as useful references,  but they are hardly books that one can sit down and read with pleasure  from beginning to end.  <br />The Birch, however, is just such a book, and I have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who would like to begin exploring one of the richest and most interesting literatures in the world.<br />Here, for those who may want to know, are details of the Mair and Minford anthologies :<br />THE COLUMBIA ANTHOLOGY OF TRADITIONAL CHINESE LITERATURE.  Edited by Victor H. Mair.  1335 pp.  New York : Columbia University Press, 1994.  ISBN 0-231-07428-X  (hbk.)<br />CLASSICAL CHINESE LITERATURE : An Anthology of Translations, Volume  I : From Antiquity to the Tang Dynasty.  Edited by John Minford and Joseph S. M. Lau.  1176 pp.  New York and Hong Kong : Columbia  University Press and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 2000. ISBN 0-231-09676-3 (hbk.)	2001-06-18
US	50869571	RKQBD9E40Z4GR	0822319462	201983633	Chinese Poetry, 2nd ed., Revised: An Anthology of Major Modes and Genres	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Appreciating the dynamics of Chinese poetry.	CHINESE POETRY : An Anthology of Major Modes and Genres.  Edited and translated by Wai-lim Yip.  358 pp.  Durham NC and London : Duke University Press, 1997.  ISBN 0-8223-1951-9 (pbk.)<br />Wai-lim Yip, Professor of Literature at the University of California at San Diego, is a poet, a sophisticated thinker, and a brilliant translator, critic, and theorist.  As heir to one of the richest and  most subtle literatures in the world, he has always been understandably  concerned about the often inferior quality of Western translations from  Chinese, an inferiority he attributes to a misreading of the Chinese  sensibility, and a reading into it of invalid Western assumptions.  In other words, Western translators who do not understand  the classical Chinese mind, can only represent it as operating more or  less like their own minds, and in thus representing it end up by grossly  misrepresenting it.<br />Professor Yip earlier devoted an entire study to this subject :  'Diffusion of Distances : Dialogues Between Chinese and Western  Poetics' (1993).  In the present book he has given the essentials of his argument in an introductory essay that bears careful reading : 'TRANSLATING CHINESE POETRY : The Convergence of Language and Poetics - A Radical Introduction' (pp.1-27).<br />In the Preface to his book, Professor Yip tells us that : &quot;Underlying the classical Chinese aesthetic is the primary idea of noninterference with Nature's flow [cf., the Taoist 'Wu Wei'].  As reflected in poetic language, this idea has engendered freedom from the syntactical rigidities often found in English. . . .  This opens up an indeterminate space for readers to enter and reenter for multiple perceptions rather than locking thm into some definite perspectival position or guiding them in a certain direction&quot; (page xiii).<br />This opening up of spaces in which all things, including the reader, are allowed to become themselves may sound a bit abstract to some, but  its marvelous effects willbe felt by anyone who sincerely opens themselves to the poems in this anthology.<br />The anthology contains 150 poems, drawn from all major modes and genres,  which span two thousand years - from the 'Book of Songs' (c. - 600) to the poems of the Yuan Dynasty  (+ 1260-1368).  Each poem is printed with the original Chinese text in Professor Yip's beautiful brushed calligraphy, co-ordinated with word-by-word glosses, and followed by his spare and powerful  translations.  The effect is to correct more than a century of distortion caused by translators who were blind to the intricacies and aesthetics of the Chinese language, and to let English readers finally enter into the dynamics of the originals.  Each section of the book is preceded by a short essay on the mode or genre to follow,  and a useful 5-page Bibliography rounds out the book.<br />Here, as an example of Yip's style, is his rendering of a poem  by Wang Wei on page 228.  The Chinese text is given first at the  top of the page, then the word-by-word translation which I shall omit, and then the final translation in four lines (numbered by Yip for the  convenience of readers, and with my obliques added to indicate line  breaks) :<br />&quot;1.  High on tree-tips, the hibiscus. / 2.  In the mountain sets forth red calyxes. / 3.  A home by a stream, quiet.  No  man. / 4.  It blooms and falls, blooms and falls.&quot; <br />The poem's spareness opens up a space which allows each of us to  generate our own vividly realized scene, and to entertain different  ideas at different readings.  Wang Wei,  who was Buddhist, rather than getting in the way and trying to control things, is allowing them to come forward and declare  themselves, and his procedure gains in meaning if we set it alongside  an observation made by Dogen (+ 1200-1253), who wrote:<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad things to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (Tr., F. H.Cook, 'Sounds of Valley Streams,' page 66).  <br />In a word, Professor Yip's &quot;noninterference.&quot;<br />So here is a truly marvelous book by a highly competent authority in  which the English reader can finally find out what Chinese poetry is  really all about.  The book is beautifully printed on excellent strong paper, bound in a sturdy decorative wrapper, but sadly has a glued spine instead of the stitching that would have given us a book that could have been held open without effort.<br />Apart from the spine, my only complaint is that Professor Yip's calligraphy, though beautiful, is brushed in a cursive style which tends to make the structure of the more complex and less common characters  hard to discern for beginners.  Ideal in a book of this nature would have been to give the Chinese texts in large printed characters along  with their romanized transcriptions.  <br />But you can't have everything, and we should certainly be grateful for the labors that went into this unique anthology of Chinese poems, a book designed to give the English reader true access to the dynamics of one of the most subtle and interesting literatures in the world.	2001-06-18
US	50869571	R2ANKXIPLAEUS8	0231056834	980889065	The Columbia Book of Chinese Poetry	Books	5	45	45	N	N	A fine anthology from an outstanding scholar-translator.	THE COLUMBIA BOOK OF CHINESE POETRY : From Early Times to the  Thirteenth Century.  Translated and Edited by BURTON WATSON. 385 pp.  (Translations from the Oriental Classics).  New York :  Columbia University Press, 1984.  ISBN 0-231-05682-6 (hbk.)<br />Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a fine translator. Unlike certain others, he wears his scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter. His  many translations from Chinese and Japanese Literature are of uniformly  high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often  wants to returns to. <br />The present anthology has always been one of my favorite books. In contrast to the more recent mammoth anthologies of Victor Mair (1335 pages) and John Minford (1176 pages), Watson's, at a mere 385 pages,  is a far more modest and manageable proposition. <br />Unlike the Mair and Minford, it can be held easily in the hand while reading, and it is printed in a large clear font on spacious pages in which the lines have room to breathe.  Modest in size it is also modest  in presentation.  Selections are preceded by only the briefest of introductions, and footnotes have been kept to an absolute minimum.<br />In his brief but extremely well-written and informative Introduction, Watson tells us that : &quot;The present anthology is intended to give a representative selection of Chinese poetry in the 'shih' form from the first two thousand years of China's long literary history ... as well as outstanding works in the 'fu' and 'tz'u' forms and a few other works such as the 'Li Sao' or 'Encountering Sorrow' that are unique in form&quot; (p.13).  <br />His book includes selections from 'The Book of Odes,' 'The Ch'u Tzu,' Early Songs, Poems in Rhyme-Prose Form, Poems of the Han and Wei,  T'ao Yuan-ming, Wang Wei, Li Po, Tu Fu, Han Yu, Po Chu-i, Han Shan, Su T'ung-po, Lu Yu, and much else besides.<br />Here, as an example of his superb style, is his translation of Liu Tsung-yuan's 'River Snow' (with my obliques added to indicate line breaks) :<br />&quot;From a thousand hills, bird flights have vanished; / on ten thousand paths, human traces wiped out : / lone boat, an old man in straw cape and hat, / fishing alone in the cold river snow&quot;  (p.282).<br />The truth of Burton Watson's statement that the &quot;Chinese poetic world is one that is remarkably easy to enter.... Even works that are many centuries removed from us in time come across with a freshness and immediacy that is often quite miraculous&quot; (p.3) is very much in evidence here.<br />Anyone who would like to get a good idea of what Chinese poetry is all about, and to actually enjoy the experience of finding out, should certainly consider the present anthology.  Anthologies such as those of Mair and Minford are all very well in their way and can serve as useful references, but they are hardly books that one can sit down and read with pleasure from beginning to end. <br />Watson's, however, is just such a book, and I have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who would like to begin exploring some of the richest and most interesting poetry in the world.	2001-06-18
US	50869571	R3BVY0T5NN3152	0226631877	420222478	Ancient Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Temples and gods ? Or Ziggurats and DIN.GIR ?	ANCIENT MESOPOTAMIA : Portrait of a Dead Civilization.  433 pp. Chicago & London : The University of Chicago Press, 1968 (1964). (pbk.)    The civilizational achievements of the Sumerians, Babylonians, and Assyrians of Mesopotamia only started to become known over the  course of the last century or so.  For our new understanding of the  past we have to thank archaeology, in particular for its discovery of many tens of thousands of baked clay tablets which have miraculously preserved the complex cuneiform writing system, languages, and  literatures of the ancient Mesopotamians, and for the patient  decipherment of these tablets and other cuneiform-bearing artefacts  by a small and dedicated group of international scholars.    The literature on this subject today is vast, and much of it is accessible only to specialists.  Of the studies that are generally available - such as those of A. Leo Oppenheim, Samuel Noah Kramer, and Thorkild Jacobsen - most tend to be aimed at a more  scholarly type of audience, the kind of people who like detailed footnotes, precise references to sources, bibliographies, etc.,     Oppenheim's valuable study, which weighs in at a hefty 433 pages,  contains all of these plus fifteen plates, three maps, a Chronology, a Glossary of Names and  Terms, and an Index.  As a distinguished scholar and linguist who  spent more than thirty years studying the cuneiform tablets, he  offers us a personal picture of the Mesopotamians of three thousand years ago which sums up all that the tablets have to tell us about the ancient civilizations of Babylon and Assyria.    His book is organized as follows - Chapter I : The Background; The Setting; The Actors; The World Around; II :  The Social Texture; Economic Facts; \\"The Great Organizations\\"; The City; Urbanism; III - Historical Sources or Literature?; An Essay on Babylonian History; An Essay on Assyrian History;  IV - Why a \\"Mesopotamian Religion\\" Should Not Be Written; The Care and  Feeding of the Gods; Mesopotamian \\"Psychology\\"; The Arts of the Diviner; V - The Meaning of Writing; The Scribes; The Creative Effort;  Patterns in Non-Literary Texts; Part VI - Medicine and Physicians; Mathematics and Astronomy; Craftsmen and Artists.    Of particular interest are Oppenheim's views on \\"religion\\" as set forth in Chapter IV.  He tells us, for example, that : \\"The Immense ruins of the temple towers [i.e., ziggurats] of the large cities ... made Babylonia famous ....  Yet even today we do not know the purpose of these edifices....  We do not know what they were for\\" (page 172).    This is a startling admission, since it calls into question pretty well everything that has been written about ancient Mesopotamia.  If the \\"temples\\" shouldn't really be called \\"temples\\" since we don't know what purpose they served, what about the \\"gods\\" and the \\"myths\\" of the Mesopotamians?  Do these also represent a distortion or misreading of the facts?  Were the gods really gods?  Were the myths merely fabrications?  Was their literature literature, or was it history?    So far as I know, Oppenheim is one of the very few scholars who have had the courage to suggest that the conventional view of Mesopotamian history may be fundamentally in error.	2001-06-17
US	50869571	R2EOHXKTXVS032	0226104257	230356180	They Wrote on Clay: The Babylonian Tablets Speak Today	Books	5	23	24	N	N	An excursion into the life of a vanished civilization	THEY WROTE ON CLAY : The Babylonian Tablets Speak Today.  By Edward Chiera.  Edited by George G. Cameron.  235 pp.  Chicago and London : The University of Chicago Press, 1964 (1955).  (pbk.)<br />The civilizational achievements of the Sumerians,  Babylonians, and Assyrians only started to become known over the  course of the last century or so.  For our new understanding of the  past we have to thank archaeology, in particular for its discovery of many tens of thousands of baked clay tablets which have miraculously preserved the complex cuneiform writing system, languages, and  literatures of the ancient Mesopotamians, and for the patient  decipherment of these tablets and other cuneiform-bearing artefacts  by a small and dedicated group of international scholars.<br />The literature on this subject today is vast, and much of it is accessible only to specialists.  Of the studies that are generally available - such as those by A. Leo Oppenheim, Samuel Noah Kramer, and Thorkild Jacobsen - most tend to be aimed at a more  scholarly type of audience, the kind of people who like detailed footnotes, precise references to sources, bibliographies, etc.,  and little seems to be available in the way of a more popular  treatment for the general reader.<br />This is where the present book comes in.  Edward Chiera, though a competent and respected scholar, was exceptional in having an ardent desire to share his knowledge by making the results  of his research readily and entertainingly available to the general reader.  Consequently, instead of giving us, for example, a lengthy and detailed analysis of the religious ideas or political history of the Babylonians, he has chosen instead to offer an absorbing excursion into the common life of this ancient civilization.<br />Chiera's 'They Wrote on Clay' is both well-written and easy to read since the pages are small, the font used is gratifyingly large and readable, and there are numerous black-and-white photographs and line drawings which illustrate various aspects of life in the near  East : people, places, animals, domestic scenes, archaeological sites,  buildings, artworks and other artefacts etc.  These illustrations perfectly supplement Chiera's written account, and although many are contemporary, they do serve to suggest something of what  life must have been like in the past.<br />Chiera has managed to pack an awful lot into this small book.  We learn about the discovery of the ancient cities, the amazing libraries of clay tablets that were unearthed, the exciting story of the decipherment of the complex cuneiform writing system, the worlds of business and religion, of kings, priests, scribes and ordinary folk, and of their multifarious doings, and of much else besides.<br />The author clearly loved his subject, and it's invariably from  such writers that we get the best books.  So if you're looking for a well-written, well-illustrated, easy-to-read popular treatment of this fascinating world, a world that is vastly more important to you than you may realize since it is there and not in Greece that the real roots of Western civilization lie, you'd be hard put to better 'They  Wrote on Clay.'<br />And if Chiera succeeds in whetting your appetite, as I'm sure he will,  you might go on to read one of the best-loved stories to come out of  that world, the deeply moving story of the adventures of Gilgamesh, his friendship with the wild man Enkidu, and his search for immortality.  I'm pretty sure that, if you don't already know it, you would very much  enjoy that too.  One good popular edition of this story that can be  recommended is:<br />THE EPIC OF GILGAMESH : An English Version with an Introduction by N. K. Sandars.  Penguin Classics Revised Edition.  128 pp.  London : Penguin, 1972 (1964) and Reissued.which illustrate various aspects of life in the near  East : people, places, animals, domestic scenes, archaeological sites,  buildings, artworks and other artefacts etc.  These illustrations perfectly supplement Chiera's written account, and although many are contemporary, they do serve to suggest something of what  life must have been like in the past.  <br />Chiera has managed to pack an awful lot into this small book.  We learn about the discovery of the ancient cities, the amazing libraries of clay tablets that were unearthed, the exciting story of the decipherment of the complex cuneiform writing system, the worlds of business and religion, of kings, priests, scribes and ordinary folk, and of their multifarious doings, and of much else besides.  <br />The author clearly loved his subject, and it's invariably from  such writers that we get the best books.  So if you're looking for a well-written, well-illustrated, easy-to-read popular treatment of this fascinating world, a world that is vastly more important to you than you may realize since it is there and not in Greece that the real roots of Western civilization lie, you'd be hard put to better 'They  Wrote on Clay.'  <br />And if Chiera succeeds in whetting your appetite, as I'm sure he will,  you might go on to read one of the best-loved stories to come out of  that world, the deeply moving story of the adventures of Gilgamesh, his friendship with the wild man Enkidu, and his search for immortality.  I'm pretty sure that, if you don't already know it, you would very much  enjoy that too.  One good popular edition of this story that can be  recommended is:<br />THE EPIC OF GILGAMESH : An English Version with an Introduction by N. K. Sandars.  Penguin Classics Revised Edition.  128 pp.  London : Penguin, 1972 (1964) and Reissued.	2001-06-17
US	50869571	R2PA6WFDTPZ3B7	0890031975	413141783	A Manual of Sumerian Grammar and Texts (Aids and Research Tools in Ancient Near Eastern Studies, No 5)	Books	5	75	75	N	N	A truly superb manual, superbly produced.	A MANUAL OF SUMERIAN GRAMMAR AND TEXTS.  Aids and Research Tools in Ancient Near Eastern Studies No.5.  Second Revised and  Expanded Edition.  By John L. Hayes.  471pp.  Malibu : Undena  Publications, 2000.  ISBN 0-89003-508-1 (pbk.)<br />This is an introductory grammar, designed for readers with no previous knowledge of Sumerian or its writing system, and can be used either with or without a teacher.  It contains a general description of  Sumerian and its writing system, and a series of 22 lessons.<br />Each lesson includes a sign list and a vocabulary, cuneiform text/s, transliteration, transcription, and translation, and full grammatical commentary.  Since emphasis has been placed on transliteration and transcription, the Manual can be used without learning the cuneiform signs.  The texts used are royal inscriptions of the Ur III period, presented in photograph or autograph.  A certain amount of historical, archaeological, and cultural background is also presented.<br />Also included are 80 pages of Appendices - History of Sumerian;  Mesopotamian Sources; Glossary; General Structure and Alternate Explanations; Further Work; Bibliography; Concordances; Topical Index.<br />The Manual is in full quarto size (8.5 by 11 inches), is superbly printed in a large clear font on excellent paper, and is in fact one of the most beautifully printed books I've ever seen.  It is richly illustrated with numerous large black-and-white photographs and drawings, and also with a large number of cuneiform texts.  These  have been specially drawn by John Carnahan, in a variety of styles and in large, bold and magnificent cuneiform that is a  joy to behold.<br />Not only is the Manual visually and physically impressive, but  the  text itself is also of the highest quality.  Hayes' lucid and engaging style, his attention to detail, his concern to include just about  everything that might conceivably be of use or interest to the student, and his knack of making the grammar both intelligible and interesting, make this the most outstanding Manual of its kind that I've  ever seen.<br />Anyone who is interested in beginning Sumerian would be very unwise to miss this book.  Hayes' Manual strikes me as a true  labor of love, and personally I can think of no way in which it  could possibly have been made better.  It's that good!	2001-06-17
US	50869571	R1CFOUJWY1QFXH	0520061152	271383053	Cuneiform (Reading the Past)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	A useful illustrated survey of the cuneiform writing system.	CUNEIFORM by C. B. F. Walker.  64 pp.  Volume 3 in the 'Reading the  Past' series.  University of California Press / British Museum, 1987. ISBN 0-520-06115-2 (pbk.)<br />The present book offers a brief illustrated survey of the cuneiform writing system which flourished in the Ancient Near East between 3000 BC and 75 AD.  It covers the development of the script from its  earliest pictographic signs, and explains the process which led to cuneiform being used for writing, not only Sumerian and Akkadian,  but also many other Near Eastern languages. <br />After a brief Preface, seven chapters follow :  1. Origin and Development; 2. Tablets and Monuments; 3. Scribes and Libraries;  4. The Geographical Spread; 5. Decipherment; 6. Sample Texts;  7. Fakes.  <br />The sample texts show us how the cuneiform script is analyzed into words and syllables, and also how to read the names of the most famous kings as found in various inscriptions.  Extracts are given from Sumerian texts which describe how scribes were trained, and the many different kinds of inscription they wrote are illustrated.<br />Also explained is the exciting story of the decipherment of  cuneiform, and, since original inscriptions can be very expensive and are often faked, a few guidelines for identifying fakes are included for the benefit of collectors. <br />The book is rounded out with a useful summary of the main international collections, 'Where to see Cuneiform Inscriptions,' a short list of books for 'Further Reading' which includes such familiar names as Kramer, Oppenheim, and Chiera, and a handy Index.<br />The book is a large 8vo in size (9.5 by 7 inches), bound in a sturdy decorative wrapper, stitched, and well-printed (though in a rather  tiny font) on strong paper.  It contains a useful map, and is profusely illustrated with line drawings and with black-and-white photographs  of many ancient cuneiform-bearing artefacts such as sculptures,  clay tablets, seal impressions, stelae, and so on.<br />All in all, C. B. F. Walker's book is a handy guide, and sturdy enough  to be taken along on a trip to a museum or collection to be used as a reference.  But given the enormous importance of cuneiform as the  vehicle of the most ancient and amazing body of literature that has  come down to us, and of the basic civilizational patterns which the  modern world has inherited from Mesopotamia and which still govern us,  it seems amazing that this should be the only book devoted to a general  survey of the subject in English (though there are chapters in others).  <br />Although the style in which this book is written might have been a bit  livelier, the illustrations are very nice to have, and anyone who is  at all interested in cuneiform will find much to enjoy in it.  A few other recommended texts follow.<br />For a sumptiously illustrated text on quarto sized pages which gives many large beautiful reproductions of cuneiform, readers are referred  to:<br />A MANUAL OF SUMERIAN GRAMMAR AND TEXTS.  Second Revised and Expanded Edition.  By John L. Hayes.  471pp.  Malibu : Undena Publications,  2000.  Aids and Research Tools in Ancient Near Eastern Studies No.5. ISBN0-89003-508-1 (pbk.) <br />A reproduction of an incredibly beautiful 1861 copper engraving of a Royal Inscription which was one of the earliest pieces of  cuneiform to be published after its decipherment will be found as Figure 1 on page 62 of Assyriologist Jean Bottero's :<br />MESOPOTAMIA : Writing, Reasoning, and the Gods.  By Jean Bottero. Translated by Zainab Bahrani and Marc Van De Mieroop.  311 pp.   Chicago and London : The University of Chicago Press, 1992.  ISBN 0-226-06727-0 (pbk.)<br />This engraving is definitely something you shouldn't miss.  I don't  think we'll ever see the likes of it again.  It's almost worth the  price of the book.  And the rest of Bottero's book is marvelous too!	2001-06-16
US	50869571	R5CX9PRPH9ZCM	0931464862	739647205	An Akkadian Handbook: Paradigms, Helps, Logograms and Sign Lists	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A compact and useful reference work for students of Akkadian	AN AKKADIAN HANDBOOK : Paradigms, Helps, Glossary, Logograms, &amp; Sign List.  By Douglas B. Miller and R. Mark Shipp.  163 pp. Winona Lake, Indiana : Eisenbrauns, 1996.  ISBN 0-931464-86-2 (pbk.)<br />This is one of those extremely useful books like Edwin G. Pulleyblank's   'Outline of Classical Chinese Grammar' (1995) - in other words, _NOT_ a textbook for lesson-by-lesson study of a language, but a handy  compendium and reference work which packs a lot of information into a  convenient and easy-to-consult package, and which can help solve  problems that can crop up when engaged in the study of a formal  textbook.<br />The basic resources included in the present reference work are  paradigms of nouns and verbs, a glossary of common proper names,  an index of single and composite logograms, an index of Akkadian words  commonly written in logograms, a reverse index of composite logograms  by constituent sign number, and a complete sign list accompanied by a  comprehensive index of all sign values.  In short, the book summarizes  all of the basic resource materials needed for the study of Akkadian.<br />The book is a  full-sized 8vo (9 by 6 inches), beautifully printed on good paper,  and is bound in a reasonably sturdy glossy wrapper, though unfortunately  it has a glued spine and won't open flat.  The idea that books should be openable seems, like much else, to have fallen victim to progress.<br />But hey!  You can't have everything, and perhaps we should be happy  with what we have been given - a well-organized and well-printed manual that all students of Akkadian will find indispensable.  It makes  a perfect companion to the excellent Marcus self-teaching manual for beginners :<br />A MANUAL OF AKKADIAN by David Marcus.  182 pp. New York : University Press of America, 1978.  ISBN 0-8191-0608-9 (pbk.)<br />Equipped with these two, serious application should soon see anyone reading passages in cuneiform from 'The Code of Hammurapi,' 'The Descent of Ishtar,' and 'The Annals of Sennacherib' with real enjoyment.	2001-06-16
US	50869571	R2AE6ISW8MLXG8	0300072783	894682356	The Harps that Once...: Sumerian Poetry in Translation	Books	5	45	65	N	N	A literary treatment and true labor of love.	THE HARPS THAT ONCE . . .  Sumerian Poetry in Translation.  Translated by Thorkild Jocobsen.  498 pp.  New Haven and London : Yale University Press, 1987.  ISBN 0-300-07278-3 (pbk.)<br />I currently have three anthologies of Sumerian-Akkadian literature on my shelves: Stephanie Dalley's 'Myths from Mesopotamia' (1989),  Benjamin R. Foster's 'From Distant Days : Myths, Tales, and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia' (1995), and the present book.  All three are by specialists and are designed for the general reader; all, within the limits of their shared conventional viewpoint, are excellent;  and  anyone with a serious interest in this remote and fascinating  literature will want to have all three.   <br />The fact that all three are by specialists, however, raises a problem.  For what it means is that we are being given is the official, orthodox, and, as it were, sanitized view of this literature, one based on a general  consensus of academics as to what it is about and what its words mean.<br />Although I'm not a specialist myself but merely an enthusiastic Sumerophile, it's generally understood that knowledge of Sumerian and Akkadian is still in an imperfect state, and that 'definitions' of words in these languages should not be seen as fixed and more or less final, as they are in languages such as Latin or Greek, but should  rather be seen as currently fashionable educated guesses by specialists, guesses which may turn out to be wrong.  <br />Personally I doubt very much that the use by these writers of the word &quot;gods,&quot; for example, accurately reflects what the ancients really meant.  I also find their use of the word &quot;myth&quot; highly questionable, since I think that the poems and stories we are dealing with, far from being mere &quot;myths&quot; or falsehoods, are  in fact a distant echo of events that actually occurred in history. <br />In other words, various and sometimes rather subtle kinds of scholarly distortion, a distortion which could be quite _innocent_ in  intent, can creep into translations, and we cannot afford to assume  that what is on the page must be right since a specialist put it there. <br />Let me repeat that I'm not accusing Sumerologists and Assyriologists of  being scoundrels.  I'm merely suggesting that in a field as complex and  filled with difficulties as this, there will always be room for  alternative views, views such as those of linguist and scholar Zecharia  Sitchin whose '12th Planet' everyone who is interested in Sumer should  read.<br />An extreme example of the sort of 'distortion' I am talking about occurs in Jacobsen's translation of 'Inanna's Descent.'  Here are a  few lines from the opening, with my obliques added to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Inanna had / from the upper heaven / her heart set / on the  netherworld. / My lady forsook heaven, / forsook earth, / went down into Hades&quot; (page 207).<br />My questions are these:  Is this a 'myth' or a poetic account of an actual historical event?  Are Inanna and the other &quot;gods&quot; really &quot;gods,&quot; or are they the living flesh-and-blood persons the Sumerians considered them to be?  And how on earth did &quot;Hades,&quot; a Graeco-Latin notion which will immediately conjure up a vivid image in the mind of anyone who has read Homer or Virgil, get into this far more  ancient text from a wholly different culture?<br />Jacobsen's 'Inanna's Descent' is a long text of 28 pages, and I don't know how many times Jacobsen uses the word &quot;Hades,&quot; but I count eleven instances on pages 208-209 alone.  It's easy to see why he has chosen to use &quot;Hades.&quot;  It starts with his notion that &quot;a lower earth,&quot; one that is beneath or under ours, must be understood as underground. But don't we refer to Australia as 'down under' ?  and isn't it possible that what is &quot;below&quot; or &quot;under&quot; us could just as easily refer to a land in the southern hemisphere, a land such as Africa, and thatthe &quot;darkness&quot; in this poem might be the &quot;darkness&quot; of African mines ?<br />But whatever the case, &quot;Hades,&quot; with its classical associations, is definitely misleading, as is the use of &quot;myth,&quot; &quot;god,&quot; &quot;deity,&quot; &quot;name,&quot; and a host of other words.  If we turn to Stephanie Dalley's somewhat more technical translation of 'The Descent of Inanna,' we will find that she has been much more cautious and has not used the word &quot;Hades&quot; at all.  Instead she wisely leaves the word in the original language, giving it as &quot;Kurnugi&quot; :<br />&quot;To Kurnugi, land of [no return], / Ishtar ... was [determined] to  go; /  To the dark house, dwelling of Erkalla's god, /  To the house which those who enter cannot leave, / . . . /  To the house where those who enter are deprived of light, / . . . / They see no light, they dwell in darkness . . .&quot; (page 155).<br />In the same sort of darkness, one might add, as experienced by slaves kept in mines.  Is this Jacobsen's &quot;Hades&quot; or Sitchin's African  mines ?  I don't know, but I wouldn't blithely assume that the academic establishment must be right and that the matter is settled.  There  will always be room for alternative points-of-view, no matter how discomfiting they may be to those of fixed views.<br />Jacobsen's  huge anthology been arranged as follows : Dumuzi Texts;  Royal Lovesongs; Hymns to Gods; Myths; Epics; Admonitory History;  Hymns to Temples; Laments for Temples.  All been provided with their  own brief introductions, and all gaps and losses of text in the  original tablets have been indicated in the translations.  In addition,  all texts have brief and helpful footnotes.  <br />The book also includes a brief Introduction, and is rounded out with a list of sources and a detailed 10-page Index.  In size it is a large  8vo (9 by 6 inches), is beautifully printed on excellent paper with spacious margins, bound in wrappers that mighthave been sturdier, but sadly has one of those detestable glued spines that crack when opened.<br />The limits of this book are the limits of the official point-of-view.  Within these limits Jacobsen's book becomes a true labor of love, a wonderfully readable literary treatment of some of the world's most ancient,  fascinating and beautiful literature by an outstanding specialist,  and one that can be strongly recommended to all sensitive readers,  though they shouldn't take it as gospel but as something vastly more  interesting.	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R2SZFNDJKLD934	0394740890	754803445	Gilgamesh	Books	5	62	64	N	Y	An extensively annotated translation for in-depth study.	GILGAMESH : Translated from the Sin-leqi-unninni Version by John Gardner and John Maier, with the assistance of Richard A. Henshaw. 304 pp.  New York : Vintage Books, 1985 (1984).  ISBN 0-394-740-89-0 (pbk.)   <br />The present book is the fruit of a collaboration between John Gardner, literary scholar and writer who was responsible for the translation, and John Maier, who wrote the 50-page Introduction, the extensive  Notes, and the concluding Appendix.  Although both might be described  as 'non-specialist enthusiasts,' and it was their intention to write &quot;a translation for the non-specialist&quot; (page 4), evidence of real scholarship is evident throughout, and it's clear that we are dealing here with enthusiasts who were madly in love their subject and knew a great deal about it.<br />The Gilgamesh story has a very long history and reaches back to a real Sumerian hero of the Third Millenium B.C.  Its late version was written, not in Sumerian but in Akkadian, the language of Sumer's conquerors, by the priest, Sin-leqi-unnini, around 1300 B.C., and it is this Middle Babylonian version that we have been given in the present book.  <br />Although Gilgamesh is usually presented as a poem in twelve books, Gardner and Maier, guided by the fact that each of its twelve cuneiform tablets has six columns on each side, and feeling that &quot;the column is an important unit of composition&quot; (page vii), decided to  treat the tablets as seventy-two columns or separate poems.  Hence the  unusual column-by-column layout of their book. <br />Most clay tablets that have survived are usually in a pretty battered condition, and have lost many words and lines of their text.  These  losses are usually smoothed over and largely hidden in translations for the ordinary reader.  But in the Gardner-Maier the general intent seems  to have been, not so much to give us a reader's version of Gilgamesh, but to literally transcribe, line-by-line and with all of the many gaps and lossescaused by wear and breakage, what is actually on the tablets, thereby bringing us much closer to the extant text.<br />This can make for a very different and interesting kind of reading  experience, though one that involves work since we ourselves must use  our imagination to try to fill in the gaps.  Here is an example from TABLET IX Column i lines 15-24, with losses and editorial insertions in square brackets exactly as found on page 196, but with my obliques added to indicate line breaks :<br />&quot;Gilgamesh takes up the axe in his hand; / he drew [the weapon] from his belt / [and] like an arrow . . . he fell among them. / He  struck . . . smashing them, / . . . [enjoying it]. / He threw . . . / he [guarded] . . . / Second . . . / He lifted . . . / . . .&quot;<br />Fortunately, most columns have far less damage than this, and some have none at all.  Here are lines 1-5 of TABLET I Column iv :<br />&quot;The animals came, their hearts grew light in the waters. / And as for him, Enkidu, child of the mountain, / he who fed with gazelles on  grass, / he drank with the wild beasts at the watering place / and with the hurrying animals his heart grew light in the waters&quot; (page 77).<br />Here we begin to touch on something of the beauty and mystery of this strange and compelling text.  What is Enkidu, the wild man?  What stage of human development does he represent?  And how did he find his way into this poem of a highly civilized people?  As for what happens when the sacred whore arrives a few lines later to &quot;teach him what a woman is,&quot; I leave it to your imagination . . . <br />If the first of the passages quoted above worried anyone, I should add that, following each column of translation, Maier has supplied  extensive notes which can run to two or three times the length of the  translated column.  These notes attempt to supply us with as much  relevant Gilgamesh scholarship as Maier has been able to pack into them,  and make frequent references to theoriginal language.  Using these  notes will sometimes help the reader to puzzle out the meaning of at  least some of the damaged or missing lines.<br />In addition to Maier's extensive notes, and his scholarly Introduction which will interest all students of the Ancient Near East, he has also gone to the trouble of giving us an interestingly illustrated 30-page Appendix, 'Translating Gilgamesh,' which shows us something of the difficulties of translating cuneiform.  <br />Mutterings have been heard about the appropriateness of this Appendix, but there is a real aura of romance about these extremely ancient and miraculously preserved clay tablets, and cuneiform is a fascinating and beautiful script.  Given this, it's hard to see how anyone could be seriously interested in 'Gilgamesh' and not be interested in both its  language and the ancient vehicles that brought this language to us. And anyway, you don't have to read the Appendix if you don't want to read it.   Think of it as a bonus.  <br />The Gardner-Maier edition is, as I've indicated, the joint product of  two real and very scholarly enthusiasts, men who assumed in their readers an interest in Gilgamesh and Gilgamesh-related matters as keen  as their own.  As such it's not an edition that I would recommend to  most beginners.  The newcomer to Gilgamesh would, I think, be far  better off starting with something less ambitious such as the excellent Penguin Classics edition by N. K. Sandars, and to save the Gardner-Maier for later when they will be in a position to benefit from it more.  <br />But for those who have already fallen in love with this mysterious and  wonderful story, and who would like to get closer to the original and  dig into the details, it's doubtful that there could be any better  version for the enthusiastic non-specialist.  I just wish Maier had  also thought to add a Bibliography and an Index, or if he did, that  someone hadn't forgotten to include them.	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R3T3XRBKQY4ZB1	0192835890	968450359	Myths from Mesopotamia: Creation, the Flood, Gilgamesh, and Others (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	21	27	N	Y	A distant echo of our true history ?	MYTHS FROM MESOPOTAMIA : Creation, the Flood, Gilgamesh, and Others. Edited and translated with an Introduction and Notes by STEPHANIE DALLEY.  337 pp.  Oxford World's Classics.  Oxford University Press, 1998 (1989).  ISBN 0-19-283589-0 (pbk.)<br />Today we have the movies.  It seems perfectly natural to us that time, energy, skills, and enormous resources should be devoted to the manufacture of an endless flood of 'stories,' stories which bear little if any relation to reality, and most of which are mere entertainment  and utterly without any sort of meaning or significance.  Think, for  example, 007 or Indiana Jones. Think rubbish.<br />What we fail to realize is that ancient peoples would have viewed us and our art with absolute horror.  Having far more limited resources  than us, and being fundamentally much more serious and in closer contact with reality, an art such as ours that lacked significance would have immediately been seen as the degenerate thing it is.  True art for the ancients, in other words, meant deep significance. <br />Look now at the title of the present book.  What effect does the use of the word &quot;Myths&quot; have on your thoughts before you even open the book?   One of the senses of this word today is &quot;lies&quot; or &quot;falsehoods.&quot;  The  word is also commonly used of the stories that were told and cherished  and handed down by ancient peoples.  These were serious people,  and their 'stories' held deep meaning and significance for them, though we no longer require our own to have much meaning. <br />But the title of Dalley's book flicks a switch in our mind and readies  us for a bunch of mere stories, tales dreamed up out of thin air in idle  moments.  Personally, I remain unconvinced.  I don't think that the ancients were as ready to waste their time and resources on  mere entertainment as we are.    Neither do I think that their stories were pure products of imagination about an imagined class of beings that (since it's safer) our scholars have agreed to call &quot;gods.&quot;  I think these stories are distant echoes  of actual historical events involving real persons, and so does scholar and linguist Zechariah Sitchin, whose books on Ancient Mesopotamia you  ought to read as they will help rescue you from the paradigm paralysis of the Official World.<br />The story of Ancient Mesopotamia, of its various peoples and languages, its amazing civilization, its fantastic cuneiform writing system, and of the exciting discovery of hundreds of thousands of baked  clay tablets, in various states of preservation, and their patient decipherment by dedicated scholars over the last hundred years or so, is a fascinating story but far too complex to go into here.  All I can do is refer you to my Listmania List, 'Sumer for Beginners,' for some suggested reading.<br />Assyriologist Stephanie Dalley, who has taught Akkadian (the Semitic language of the conquerors of Sumer), is one such scholar, and although I'm not a specialist myself but merely an enthusiastic Sumerophile, I think she would agree that knowledge of Sumerian and Akkadian is still in a highly imperfect state, and that 'definitions' of words in these languages should not be seen as fixed and more or less final, as they are in languages such as Latin or Greek, but rather  as currently fashionable educated guesses by specialists, guesses which may turn out to be wrong.  Personally I doubt very much that her use,  for example, of the word &quot;gods,&quot; accurately reflects what the ancients  really meant.  Once again, I think that we are dealing not with 'myth'  but with history.<br />Although Professor Dalley's book was designed for the general reader, it's quite a scholarly production nevertheless.  After a brief Preface and Introduction, she gives us brisk, clear, vigorous and wonderfully readable translations of the following important texts : Atrahasis (the Flood Story); two versions of The Epic of Gilgamesh;  The Descent of Ishtarto the Underworld (The Journey of Ishtar to  Africa ?); two versions of Nergal and Ereshkigal; Apapa; Etana; two versions of Anzu; The Epic of Creation; the Theogony (sic) of Dunnu;  Era and Ishum.<br />All of these texts have been provided with their own brief introductions, and all gaps and losses of text in the original tablets have been indicated in the translations.  In addition, all texts have occasionally helpful endnotes which in most cases total a page or two, although Gilgamesh has over 10 pages.  <br />The book also includes a Chronological Chart (in a miniscule font); a Map of the Near East showing places named in the 'myths' (which would have been more useful if it hadn't been so tiny); a page of line drawings illustrating 'Mythical monsters (sic) referred to in the translations;' a detailed 14-page Glossary; and a 6-page Selected Bibliography which should prove useful  to polyglots who have access to an excellent university library  collection of Ancient Near Eastern materials.  The book is clearly and excellently printed on strong paper in a smallish but readable font,  and bound in a glossy wrapper, but sadly has one of those detestable  glued spines that crack on opening. <br />Here is an example of Dalley's vigorous style, chosen at random from Gilgamesh, with my obliques added to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;He washed his filthy hair, he cleaned his gear, / Shook out his locks over his back, / Threw away his dirty clothes and put on fresh ones. /  He clothed himself in robes and tied on a sash. / Gilgamesh put his crown on his head / And Ishtar the princess raised her eyes to the beauty of Gilgamesh. / 'Come to me, Gilgamesh, and be my lover! / Bestow on me the gift of your fruit!&quot; (Page 77).<br />Within its limits, Dalley's is an excellent scholarly compilation of her wonderfully readable and vigorous translations, and should be of  real interest to anyone who is seriously interested in these fascinating ancient stories.  But instead ofallowing Professor Dalley to decide  in advance for you, it might be better if you were to make up your own mind as to whether they are merely &quot;myths,&quot; or are instead a distant  echo of our true history.	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R3QFT3ORX2QNEL	0819106089	294875551	A Manual of Akkadian	Books	4	81	85	N	N	An interesting self-teaching Manual in an impractical format	A MANUAL OF AKKADIAN by David Marcus.  182 pp. New York : University Press of America, 1978.  ISBN 0-8191-0608-9 (pbk.)<br />David Marcus tells us in his Preface that the present Manual &quot;is designed to teach Akkadian, [one of the languages] of ancient Mesopotamia (modern  Iraq), to beginning students by the inductive method.  By this method  the student is immediately introduced to cuneiform writing, and Akkadian grammar is learnt directly as it is encountered.&quot;  The Manual  is supposed to have been designed for absolute beginners, and we are told that no background in any other Semitic language is required.<br />After a brief Introduction which provides some basic information about Akkadian, its dialects, the dialects and script used in the Manual,  and how to use the Manual, 21 Chapters follow, the first two of which cover Syllables, basic signs, verbal system, weak verbs, phonological rules, transliteration, and normalization.  <br />Each of the 19 Chapters which follow contain a cuneiform text which ranges in length from the 3 lines of Chapter 3 to the three whole pages of cuneiform given in Chapter 21.  The texts have been drawn from three sources : The Code of Hammurapi; The Descent of Ishtar; and The Annals of Sennacherib.  <br />Each text is followed by detailed grammatical notes, and students are required to translate almost all of the passages by themselves since translations are provided only for  the cuneiform texts in Chapters 3, 4, and 5.  The book is rounded out  with a 14-page SIGN LIST, a 42-page GLOSSARY, a grammatical INDEX,  and a useful 4-page section of SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER READING.<br />David Marcus, who is an Assistant Professor at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, may have been exaggerating when he   described this work as &quot;a self-teaching Manual,&quot; since Akkadian is not an easy language and questions began to occur to me at once for which I wasn't able to find answers in the book.<br />But so far as I can see, the biggest problem with this Manual, which has not been set up in print but is a reproduced typescript, is that no instruction is given on how to write the cuneiform signs, and the signs themselves have been printed far too small.  <br />Cuneiform, as Stephanie Dalley points out in her 'Myths from Mesopotamia,' is &quot;an ambiguous and exceptionally complicated writing system&quot; (page xv).  The learner needs to be able to see these highly  complex signs printed large and bold and clear.  But in a book with  pages that measure only 8.5 by 5.5 inches, and which cram as many as  five or six hundred of these signs on a single page, the difficulties  of the learner are considerably increased.  <br />And to make matters even worse, the book has one of those detestable  glued spines that cannot be opened flat, thereby adding further to one's difficulties.  One wonders who makes these decisions, and just what is going on in their heads?<br />Marcus's 'Manual of Akkadian' is, on the whole, a fascinating and well thought out textbook, and the thought that by means of it one can learn  to reach so far back in time as to understand the words of the  Mesopotamians is truly exciting.  Working one's way through it would  involve a great deal of hard work, certainly for those who are not  linguistically gifted, but the rewards would start to come soon.  What  a pity that the heavy task of the student wasn't made  a bit lighter by  the choice of a more intelligent and practical format!	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R1WDRFRXNEQE	1883053099	223145754	From Distant Days: Myths, Tales, and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	52	57	N	N	An uncluttered and wonderfully readable collection.	FROM DISTANT DAYS : Myths, Tales, and Poetry of Ancient Mesopotamia. Translated by Benjamin R. Foster.  438 pp.  Bethseda, Maryland : CDL  Press, 1995.  ISBN 1-883053-09-9 (pbk.)<br />I currently have three anthologies of Sumerian-Akkadian literature on my shelves: Stephanie Dalley's 'Myths from Mesopotamia' (1989),  Thorkild Jacobsen's 'The Harps That Once' (1987), and the present  book.  All three are by specialists and are designed for the general reader; all, within the limits of their shared conventional viewpoint, are excellent; and anyone with a serious interest in this remote and fascinating literature will want to have all three.   <br />Of the three, Dalley's is the most 'technical' translation, in the  sense that it has far more extensive footnotes, and that it wisely prefers to retain original terms such as &quot;Kurnugi&quot; (page 155), instead  of offering essentially misleading equivalents such as &quot;Netherworld&quot;  (Foster, page 78) or &quot;Hades&quot; (Jacobsen, page 207 ff).  Her translations also seem to me to be the most vigorous, but that's just a personal feeling, and all three of these tranlations are wonderfully readable.<br />Foster tells us that the present book is &quot;a selection, rearrangement, and abridgement of 'Before the Muses, An Anthology of Akkadian  Literature' (Bethseda, MD : CDL Press, 1993)&quot; (page vii).  His substantial anthology is organized as follows : 1. Gods and Their  Deeds; 2. Kings and Their Deeds; 3. Divine Speech; 4. Hymns and  Prayers; 5. Sorrow and Suffering; 6. Love and Sex; 7. Stories and  Humor; 8. Wisdom; 9. Magic Spells.<br />As is the case with the Dalley and Jacobsen anthologies, all texts have been provided  with their own brief introductions, and all gaps and losses of text in the original tablets have been indicated in the translations, though Foster's texts are much more lightly annotated.  His book opens with a short 8-page Introduction, and is rounded out with a Glossary of Proper Names,but lacks both a Bibliography and an Index.  <br />The book has clearly been designed as a reader's edition, with  minimal impedimenta in the way of notes and so on that might interfere with the reader's enjoyment of the texts.  Foster tells us that those who want to learn more about these texts, or to read further in Akkadian Literature, should consult his much fuller 2-volume work, 'Before the Muses.'  <br />The book is well-printed on excellent paper in  a large clear font that might have been a bit heavier, is bound in  glossy wrappers, and has one of those abominable glued spines that crack when opened.  I wonder what happened to stitching?<br />Here, as a brief example of Foster's style, are the opening lines of  his 'When Ishtar [i.e., Inanna] Went to the Netherworld,' with my obliques added to indicate line breaks :<br />&quot;To the netherworld, land of n[o return], / Ishtar, daughter of Sin, [set] her mind. / Indeed, the daughter of Sin did set her mind / To the gloomy house, seat of the ne[therworld], /  To the house which none leaves who enters, / To the road whose journey has no  return, / To the house whose entrants are bereft of light...&quot; (page 78).<br />Those with access to the Dalley and Jacobsen will find it interesting to compare Foster's version with theirs.  His rhythms seem a little more stately and relaxed, a little less vigorous, and he seems less sparing of words.  But, as I've indicated, all three books, though differing in flavor, are intensely readable, and we should be grateful to Professors Dalley, Jacobsen, and Foster, for the enormous labors which must have gone into them. <br />What I said in my review of Jacobsen applies equally here.  The limits  of Foster's book are the limits of the official point-of-view.  Within these limits his book becomes a labor of love, a wonderfully readable literary treatment of some of the world's most ancient, fascinating and  beautiful literature by a noted authority, and one that can be stronglyrecommended to all sensitive readers. <br />Readers, however, shouldn't take Foster as gospel but as something  vastly more interesting, since what Ishtar/Inanna may well have been  visiting was not the &quot;Netherworld&quot; but the mines of Africa.  But to  understand this you'll have to read linguist and scholar Zechariah  Sitchin's 'The 12th Planet.'  Only he provides a framework in which  all becomes intelligible.	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R39GUVXVCYHSNL	0226067270	454527949	Mesopotamia: Writing, Reasoning, and the Gods	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Stimulating articles from a Continental scholar.	MESOPOTAMIA : Writing, Reasoning, and the Gods.  By Jean Bottero. Translated by Zainab Bahrani and Marc Van De Mieroop.  311 pp.   Chicago and London : The University of Chicago Press, 1992.  ISBN 0-226-06727-0 (pbk.)<br />Jean Bottero is emeritus director of Assyriology at the Ecole pratique des hautes etudes, Paris.  His book, which is a compilation of 15 of his earlier and reworked scholarly articles on various aspects of Assyriology, would require a specialist in the field to do it justice, though it contains much that the general reader and enthusiast can enjoy.<br />One of the things that greatly appealed to me about this book was the  warm and human personality of its author.  Anglo-Saxon scholars tend as a rule to be rather aloof, distant, and formal, but Continentals  such as Jean Bottero and Jean Paulhan don't seem to have quite the same fear of appearing human, and the personal touch they bring to their work can be quite engaging.  It's also nice, after having read US scholars such as Kramer, Oppenheim, and Jacobsen, to be allowed to see things from the rather different Continental perspective.<br />In his 10-page introductory essay on 'The Birth of the West, Professor Bottero writes: &quot;... the plan that I am pursuing here [is] to discover step by step the ways of seeing, of sensing, and of living, and the unpredictable thoughts and hearts, of our oldest recognizable ancestors (page 3).  Although the whole book can be read with pleasure, three articles in particular stood out for me.   These were 'A Century of Assyriology,' 'Writing and Dialectics, or the Progress of Knowledge,' and '&quot;Free Love&quot; and its  Disadvantages.'<br />The book also includes a brief Chronology and an excellent map, and is rounded out with a Glossary-Index, a List of References, and a 'Bibliographical Orientation' which describes some of the more  important studies in the field and which serious students should find very useful.  The book is beautifully printed in an exceptionally clear font on excellent paper, contains a number of interesting illustrations, and is bound in a sturdy plasticized wrapper.  As such, it should stand  up to the wear of the repeated readings it deserves to get.<br />Although I found much to agree with in Professor Bottero, I was a bit disturbed by what seemed to me to be his overvaluation of reason (predictable in a son of Descartes) and of writing, and by his worship of the 'scientific method.'  Personally I'm not altogether convinced that the effect of the invention of writing on the human mind was an altogether good thing.  How much true wisdom and culture is lost when we move from the pre-literate to the literate state?  I also like to draw a distinction between a reasonable use of reason and that excessive use of reason which has led to the distortions of the present era.  But perhaps I've misread him and should allow myself the pleasure of reading him again.<br />Professor Bottero's book should be of real value and interest to anyone with a serious interest in Ancient Mesopotamia, and I feel sure  that the honest and unpretentious way he goes about presenting his  ideas will prove as charming to other readers as it did to me.	2001-06-15
US	50869571	R3C9RTX326DDP0	0879053763	806781463	The Forgotten Language: Contemporary Poets and Nature	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Cultivating a new respect for Nature &amp; its creatures.	THE FORGOTTEN LANGUAGE : Contemporary Poets and Nature.  Edited by Christopher Merrill.  176 pp.  Salt Lake City : Peregrine Smith Books, 1991.  <br />Some years ago wasps built a nest in the eaves of my house.   Occasionally I'd see the odd wasp buzzing about my garden, but since I never bothered them, they never bothered me.  But they did bother my neighbors in the next house, who asked me to destroy the nest.  I  felt pretty bad about hosing the nest away, and while watching the wasps buzzing about in confusion trying to take in what was happening, the loss of their home.  The present book, a book in which &quot;each of the poems ... is a plea on behalf of the wild,&quot; is a book for people like my neighbors and the many others like them.<br />Merrill's Preface and Introduction are fine pieces of writing. Both take up the desperate need for a new, healthier, and saner attitude to Nature and its creatures, the need to abandon current arrogance and selfishness, the need to cultivate a new respect.   He cites Galway Kinnell on the infinite value of all creatures, and  on the deep mystery which inheres in them.  <br />He also cites W. S. Merwin  as being firmly convinced of the impossibility of anyone becoming fully human without being &quot;nourished&quot; by the nonhuman.  And there are equally true and important observations from many other sensitive, concerned,  and intelligent writers.  But I wonder if anyone is listening?<br />The book contains over 125 poems, one or two from each of 93 of today's best US poets.  Of them Merwin writes : What these poems suggest in their various ways is the need to respect the earth, which has suffered so much at our hands&quot; (page xvii).  This is an entirely  laudable aim, but although it's apparent in some poems, it seems to be curiously absent from others.  <br />Personally I find it impossible to reconcile a respect for living creatures with a poem such as Carol Frost's 'To Kill a Deer' (page 50), a poem which - unlessI've missed something - seems to celebrate that blasting of holes in the fabric of being which is euphemistically referred to as the sport of hunting. And there are other questionable poems in this anthology.<br />Fortunately, these are far outweighed by truly positive and inspiring poems such as A. R. Ammons 'Corsons Inlet,' Margaret Atwood's 'Elegy for the Giant Tortoises,' Hayden Carruth's 'Essay,' James Dickey's 'The Heaven of Animals,' Stephen Dunn's 'From  Underneath,' Denise Levertov's 'Come into Animal Presence,' David Waggoner's 'Meeting a Bear,' and a host of others.<br />As an anthology I would rate this book very highly.  The central idea around which most of the poems cohere is one that is vitally important for modern society to understand.  In it's most sophisticated  form it finds expression in A. R. Ammons' lines :<br />&quot;. . . not so much looking for the shape / as being available / to any shape that may be / summoning itself / through me / from the self not mine but ours&quot; (page xix).<br />Readers of Dogen will understand at once what Ammons is getting at.	2001-06-14
US	50869571	R33V1M8MI8A69E	014044100X	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A profound and moving tale that holds many mysteries.	THE EPIC OF GILGAMESH : An English Version with an Introduction by N. K. Sandars.  Penguin Classics Revised Edition.  128 pp.  London : Penguin, 1972 (1964) and Reissued.<br />Although many perhaps don't realize it, we live in a truly great age of translations, being awash in an abundance of texts that would have been the envy of earlier readers.  The classics of every age and every culture - or those that have survived the hazards of time - are  freely available in all kinds of versions.  These range from the productions of outstanding scholars learned in the ancient languages, all the way the way through to the adaptations and reworkings of non-specialist enthusiasts, some of whom can also be very scholarly  in their approach.  <br />I don't really know how many translations of Gilgamesh are currently available, but the newcomer could do worse than select that of Sandars. He freely admits that his &quot;isn't a fresh translation from the cuneiform&quot; because such a translation would require a detailed knowledge of Sumerian, Akkadian and Hittite, a task which he tells us he is not competent to undertake (page 50).  <br />He adds that extensively annotated and accurate scholarly translations exist in English, French, and German, but that these hardly suit the  needs of the ordinary reader.  He himself, however, has made full use of  them in preparing his own version, a version which as an ordinary reader  myself I've always found wonderfully readable.  <br />His book falls into two parts.  First we are given a 50-page  Introduction which I personally found to be quite interesting and informative, although predictably conventional in its interpretations. Sandars accepts the standard definition of the Sumerian word DIN.GIR  as meaning &quot;god&quot; or &quot;gods,&quot; as do almost all others who write on Ancient Mesopotamia, though readers of Zecharia Sitchin will have  their doubts (see Sitchin, 12th Planet, p.169).<br />Following the Introduction we are giventhe text of Gilgamesh, mainly in Sandars' lucid and sensitive prose, though with a few passages in verse.  The book is rounded out with a 'Glossary of Names,' and an 'Appendix of Sources' which gives full bibliographical details of the scholarly sources utilized by Sandars.  It also includes a useful map, and is printed in a large and easy-to-read type.<br />As a non-specialist Sumerophile I like Sandars' text and have re-read  it several times.  Here is an example of his verse, with my obliques added to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Hear me, great ones of Uruk, / I weep for Enkidu, my friend, / Bitterly moaning like a woman mourning / I weep for my brother. / O Enkidu, my brother, / You were the axe at my side, / My hand's strength, the sword in my belt, / The shield before me, / A glorious robe, my fairest ornament; / An evil fate has robbed me...&quot; (page 94).<br />Others may have rendered this passage better, but to me it effectively communicates the despair any man would feel at the loss of his closest friend.  There are other similarly moving incidents in this strange and compelling story, a story which is essentially tragic though not unrelieved with an occasional bit of humor.<br />Here is an example of Sandars' prose:<br />&quot;My friend, I saw a third dream and this dream was altogether  frightful.  The heavens roared and the earth roared again, daylight  failed and darkness fell, lightnings flashed, fire blazed out, the clouds lowered, they rained down death.  Then the brightness departed, the fire went out, and all was turned to ashes fallen about us. . . . (page 79).<br />Gilgamesh was sleeping when this experience occurred, but I wonder if &quot;dream&quot; here really means &quot;dream&quot;?  Perhaps, but what this passage  evokes vividly for me is an ancient man's experience of being very close  to the site of the launching of a huge rocket (See Zechariah Sitchin, 'The Stairway to Heaven,' p.127).  Everything seems to be there - the roarings,the flashings, the dark clouds of smoke from the exhaust, the fall of a residue of &quot;ashes&quot; from the firing.  I wonder if a modern witness of a Cape Canaveral launch could do as well . . .<br />Gilgamesh's tragedy is that he was partly human : &quot;... the great gods made his beauty perfect....  Two thirds they made him god and one third man&quot; (page 61).  But who were these &quot;gods&quot; whose lifespans were so much longer than those of humans?  And how did they make Gilgamesh  two thirds &quot;god&quot;?  Did the Sumerians just dream all this up for  purposes of 'entertainment' ?  Or were they more accurate reporters  than they are credited with being ?<br />The Sumerians were adamant in asserting that they themselves created nothing at all, neither agriculture nor irrigation nor architecture nor engineering nor astronomy nor mathematics nor writing nor anything else, but that their _entire_ civilization  was given to them by the &quot;gods.&quot;   <br />Of this civilization we find Gilgamesh lamenting : &quot;Here in the city man dies oppressed at heart, man perishes with despair in his heart&quot; (page 72).  But would human beings have deliberately created a system in which widespread despair was unavoidable?  Or was something else responsible for establishing the civilizational patterns that, as a reading of Samuel Kramer's  'History Begins at Sumer' will convince anyone, are still ours?  Is  &quot;civilization&quot; a euphemism for a non-human system of exploitation?<br />There are many mysteries in this profound and moving tale of Gilgamesh's friendship with the wild man Enkidu, his frustration over  the human lot, and his courageous attempt and failure to discover a  solution.  But whether you read his story in Sandars' version or in  some other, make sure to read it.  It's a story you will not easily forget.	2001-06-14
US	50869571	R15VTBJ5D38T5U	0582497051	965481570	Spenser: Faerie Queene	Books	5	42	46	N	N	An edition for advanced students and Spenser enthusiasts.	EDMUND SPENSER : THE FAERIE QUEENE.  Edited by A. C. Hamilton.  753 pp. Longman Annotated English Poets.  London and New York : Longman, 1977 and Reissued.<br />The Longman Annotated English Poets edition of 'The Faerie Queene' has been designed primarily for students and academics, but will appeal to anyone who is looking for an extensively annotated Spenser which gives maximum help with the language, historical allusions, symbolism, allegory, and much else besides.  In other words, this is  not so much a reader's edition of 'The Faerie Queene' as one for those engaged in an intensive and in-depth study. <br />The pages are quarto sized (10 by 7.5 inches) and printed in double columns, with Spenser's text being given mainly in the left column,  and the accompanying explanatory glosses and extensive and detailed  notes given to the right.  Hamilton's notes are, in every way, superb, and considerably enrich one's understanding of Spenser's subtle and highly allusive poem.  The notes, however, are so extensive, that they can tend to interfere with one's enjoyment of the poem, as there is  the constant temptation to glance to the right to read Hamilton's  invariably interesting remarks. <br />Unfortunately, presumably to reduce costs, Spenser's text was not reset, and what we have been given is a much-reduced and rather poor copy of the Oxford University Press edition of 'The Faerie Queene.'  The result is a poorly printed text of the poem in a font as miniscule as that used for the sidenotes, and hence one that can be tiring to read.  The text of the poem is preceded by Hamilton's informative General Introduction, and the book is rounded out with an extensive Selected Bibliography. <br />Although less than desirable in visual terms, Hamilton's edition is superb in every other way, and definitely belongs on the bookshelves  of all advanced students and Spenser enthusiasts.  The general reader, however, would probably be far better off, certainly if new to Spenser, to start with the excellent Penguin English Poets edition, or even with the Norton Critical Edition of selections, details of which follow:<br />THE FAERIE QUEENE.  By Edmund Spenser.  Edited by Thomas P. Roche, Jr with the assistance of C. Patrick O'Donnell, Jr.   1247 pp.  Penguin English Poets, 1978 and Reprinted.<br />EDMUND SPENSER'S POETRY : Authoritative Texts and Criticism.  Norton Critical Edition.  Third Edition.  Selected and Edited by Hugh Maclean and Anne Lake Prescott.  838 pp.  London and New York : W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 1993.	2001-06-13
US	50869571	R26939AHA0RZQ2	0393962997	11290657	Edmund Spenser's Poetry (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	65	66	N	N	An edition which gives maximum help with Spenser's language.	EDMUND SPENSER'S POETRY : Authoritative Texts and Criticism.  Third Edition.  Selected and Edited by Hugh Maclean and Anne Lake Prescott. 842 pp.  London &amp; New York : W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 1993.<br />Although everyone has heard of Edmund Spenser's amazing narrative poem, 'The Faerie Queene,' it's a pity that few seem to read it.  To a superficial glance it may appear difficult, although the truth is that it's basically  a fascinating story that even an intelligent child can follow with enjoyment and interest.<br />It appears difficult only because of Spenser's deliberately antique English.  He needed such an English because he was creating a whole  new dimension of enchantment, a magical world, a land of mystery and adventure teeming with ogres and giants and witches, hardy knights both brave and villainous, dwarfs, magicians, dragons, and maidens in distress, wicked enchanters, gods, demons, forests, caves, and castles, amorous encounters, fierce battles, etc., etc.<br />To evoke an atmosphere appropriate to such a magical world,  a world seemingly distant in both time and place from ours, Spenser  created his own special brand of English.  Basically his language is standard Sixteenth Century English, but with antique spellings and a  few medievalisms thrown in, along with a number of new words that  Spenser coined himself.  The opening lines of the poem are typical :<br />&quot;A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plaine, / Y cladd in mightie armes and silver shielde, / Wherein old dints of deepe wounds did remaine, / The cruell markes of many a bloudy fielde....&quot; (page 41).<br />If, instead of reading with the eye, we read with the ear or aloud, the strange spellings resolve themselves into perfectly familiar words such as clad (clothed), mighty, arms, shield, deep,  cruel, marks, bloody, field.  And &quot;Y cladd&quot; is just one of those Spenserian medievalisms that simply means &quot;clad&quot; or clothed (i.e., wearing).<br />The only two words in this passage that might cause problems for the beginner are &quot;pricking&quot; and &quot;dints,&quot; and it doesn't take much imagination to realize that these must refer, respectively, to 'riding' (i.e., his horse) and 'dents.'  But if you can't guess their meaning,  in the present edition a quick glance to the right at their explanatory  glosses will soon apprize you of it, and will save you the trouble of searching for their meaning elsewhere.<br />Once you've used the side glosses for a little while, progress through Spenser's text becomes a snap.  And learning a few hundred words is a small price to pay for entrance into one of the most luxuriant works ever produced by the Western imagination, and one that once entered you  will often want to return to.<br />The present Norton Critical Edition has been designed for college students, but will appeal to anyone who is looking for an abridged Spenser which gives maximum help with the language, and who might also like to read a little of the best recent criticism.<br />The first part of the book, besides giving almost 500 large pages of  annotated selections from 'The Faerie Queene' which amount to well over half of Spenser's complete text, also includes a generous selection from Spenser's other poetry :  The Shephearde's Calendar; Muipotmos : or The Fate of the Butterflie; Colin Clouts Come Home Againe; Amoretti; and the beautiful Epithalamion and Prothalamion.  An Editor's Note exploring important issues follows each selection, and all obscure words have been given convenient explanatory glosses in the right margins.<br />The second part of the book consists mainly of a wide range of Twentieth-Century Criticism, and contains twenty-five critical essays  on various aspects of Spenser, many by noted scholars such as  A. Bartlett Giamatti, Thomas P. Roche Jr., Northrop Frye,  A. C. Hamilton, Isabel MacCaffrey, Paul Alpers, Louis Martz, and  William Nelson.  The book is rounded out with A Chronology of Spenser's Life and a very full Selected Bibliography.<br />Criticism undoubtedly has its value and at times can be stimulating,  but Spenser, as one of England's very greatest writers, was of course writing not so much for critics as for you and me.  Admittedly his language can be a bit tricky at first, and he certainly isn't to be rushed through like a modern novel.  His is rather the sort of book  that we wish would never end.<br />His pace is leisurely and relaxed, a gentle flowing rhythmic motion,  and that's how he wants us to read him.  To get the hang of things, try listening to one of the many available recordings.  And when you hit a strange-looking word there will be no need to fret or panic, for a quick glance to the right at its gloss will soon apprize you of its meaning.<br />So take Spenser slowly, and give his words a chance to work their magic.  Let him gently conduct you through his enthralling universe, one that you will find both wholly strange and perfectly familar, since human beings and their multifarious doings are Spenser's real subject, and somewhere in one of his enchanted forests you may one day find  yourself.Spenser's Life and a very full Selected Bibliography. <br />Criticism undoubtedly has its value and at times can be stimulating,  but Spenser, as one of England's very greatest writers, was of course writing not so much for critics as for you and me.  Admittedly his language can be a bit tricky at first, and he certainly isn't to be rushed through like a modern novel.  His is rather the sort of book  that we wish would never end.<br />His pace is leisurely and relaxed, a gentle flowing rhythmic motion,  and that's how he wants us to read him.  To get the hang of things, try listening to one of the many available recordings.  And when you hit a strange-looking word there will be no need to fret or panic, for a quick glance to the right at its gloss will soon apprize you of its meaning.<br />So take Spenser slowly, and give his words a chance to work their magic.  Let him gently conduct you through his enthralling universe, one that you will find both wholly strange and perfectly familar, since human beings and their multifarious doings are Spenser's real subject, and somewhere in one of his enchanted forests you may one day find  yourself.	2001-06-13
US	50869571	R1GDWFDCU83KSZ	0140422072	965481570	The Faerie Queene	Books	5	221	230	N	N	Spenser's Enchanted Universe.	THE FAERIE QUEENE.  By Edmund Spenser.  Edited by Thomas P. Roche, Jr with the assistance of C. Patrick O'Donnell, Jr.   1247 pp.  Penguin English Poets, 1978 and Reprinted.<br />Although everyone has heard of Edmund Spenser's amazing narrative poem, 'The Faerie Queene,' it's a pity that few seem to read it.  To a superficial glance it may appear difficult, although the truth is that it's basically  a fascinating story that even an intelligent child can follow with enjoyment and interest.  <br />It appears difficult only because of Spenser's deliberately antique English.  He needed such an English because he was creating a whole  new dimension of enchantment, a magical world, a land of mystery and adventure teeming with ogres and giants and witches, hardy knights both brave and villainous, dwarfs, magicians, dragons, and maidens in distress, wicked enchanters, gods, demons, forests, caves, and castles, amorous encounters, fierce battles, etc., etc.<br />To evoke an atmosphere appropriate to such a magical world,  a world seemingly distant in both time and place from ours, Spenser  created his own special brand of English.  Basically his language is standard Sixteenth Century English, but with antique spellings and a  few medievalisms thrown in, along with a number of new words that  Spenser coined himself.  The opening lines of the poem are typical :<br />&quot;A Gentle Knight was pricking on the plain, / Y cladd in mightie armes and siluer shielde, / Wherein old dints of deepe wounds did remain, / The cruell markes of many a bloudy fielde....&quot; (page 41).<br />If, instead of reading with the eye, we read with the ear or aloud, the strange spellings resolve themselves into perfectly familiar words such as clad (clothed), mighty, arms, silver, shield, deep,  cruel, marks, bloody, field.  And &quot;Y cladd&quot; is just one of those Spenserian medievalisms that simply means &quot;clad&quot; or clothed (i.e., wearing).  <br />The only two words in this passage thatmight cause problems for the beginner are &quot;pricking&quot; and &quot;dints,&quot; and it doesn't take much imagination to realize that these must refer, respectively, to 'riding' (i.e., his horse) and 'dents.'  But if you can't guess them, an explanation is provided in the useful list of Common Words at the  back of the book.  <br />Once you've used that 2-page list for a little while, progress through Spenser's text becomes a snap.  And learning a few hundred words is a small price to pay for entrance into one of the most luxuriant works ever produced by the Western imagination, and one that once entered you  will often want to return to.  <br />The Penguin edition, although it contains the complete text of 'The Faerie Queene,' is significantly without an Introduction, presumably because the editors felt that we don't really need one.  The book does, however, contain stanza-by-stanza Notes.  These have been placed at  the end where they can be referred to at need, and where they don't interfere with the flow of the story as we experience it.  <br />There have been many editions of 'The Faerie Queene.'  Students who are studying the poem formally will want to have the fully annotated edition by A. C. Hamilton, a bulky edition with extensive and detailed notes,  but in which the actual text of the poem is not so easy to read, being  a rather poor and considerably reduced copy of the 3-volume Clarendon Press edition.   <br />The Penguin has always seemed to me to be the best available edition for the general reader.  As is usual with Penguins, it has a clear and well-printed text, and the Notes are just about right, being neither  skimpy nor excessive.  Though fat, it's not too big to carry around,  and you may just find yourself taking it along with you on your next trip.<br />Spenser is one of England's very greatest writers.  And he was writing, not for critics, but for you and me.  Admittedly his language can be a bit tricky at first, and he certainly isn't to be rushed through like a modern novel.  His is rather the sort of book that we wish would never end.<br />His pace is leisurely and relaxed, a gentle flowing rhythmic motion,  and that's how he wants us to read him.  To get the hang of things, try listening to one of the many available recordings.  And if you hit a strange-looking word, don't fret or panic.  Try to hear the word in  your mind, and guess at its meaning.  That will often help, but if it doesn't, Roche's list or his brief and excellent notes should.  <br />So take Spenser slowly, and give his words a chance to work their magic.  Let him gently conduct you through his enthralling universe, one that you will find both wholly strange and perfectly familar, since human beings and their multifarious doings are Spenser's real subject, and somewhere in one of his enchanted forests you may one day find  yourself.	2001-06-13
US	50869571	R2QQS9HAGZU0M8	0292715897	658387797	Watunna: An Orinoco Creation Cycle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Different, and utterly compelling.	WATUNNA : An Orinoco Creation Cycle, by Marc de Civrieux, edited and translated from the Spanish by David M. Guss.  195 pp.   North point Press, 1980.<br />I first learned of this book from a review by John Updike, 'Happy on Nono despite Odosha,' which was reprinted in his  'Hugging the Shore' (Penguin Books, 1983, pp.669-75).  Normally I don't read much anthropology, and have no particular interest in myths, but Updike's was such an excellent review and got me so excited about this book that I decided to get a copy.  It turned out to be the most  fascinating compilation of myth I've ever run into, and one with a significant difference.  <br />Rather than being recast in the scholarly prose of your standard  anthropologist, the Watunna Creation stories are given to us as  they issued from the mouths of the Makiritare themselves, a tribe  which lives in the mountainous regions of the upper Orinoco in Southern Venezuela.  They were pieced together by French ethnographer, Marc Civrieux, who spent over twenty years visiting the villages of the Makiritare and listening to their vivid and moving myths of the world's creation, and the  role their tribe played tribe within it.  <br />The word 'myth' is, of course, a convenient catch-all.  In fact it explains nothing.  All it does is serve to excuse us from further thought, as does the word 'instinct,' a word which really refers to a kind of intelligence that we do not understand at all. But if even a  tiny fraction of what the Makiritare are saying is true - if in fact  these stories are not myth, but, as they themselves firmly believe, real history - it  would indicate a knowledge of human history that reaches back in time  for tens and perhaps even hundreds of thousands of years. <br />But whether 'myth' or 'history,' the Watunna stories are fascinating, and they have been beautifully rendered into English by David M. Guss. Here are a few lines from the opening of the book:<br />&quot;There was Kahuna, the Sky Place.  TheKahuhana lived there just like  now.  They're good, wise people.  And they were in the beginning too. They never died.  There was no sickness, no evil, no war.  The whole world was Sky.  No one worked.  No one looked for food.  Food was always there, ready.  //  There were no animals, no demons, no clouds, no  winds.  In the highest sky was Wanadi, just like now.  He gave his light to the people. . . .&quot; (page 21).<br />Besides a Translator's Preface, and a 19-page Introduction on the  history of the Makiritare and the nature of their Watunna, which in its highest form is communicated from the spirit world in a secret language, and is heard only by initiates while in trance, the book also contains a section of eight interesting photographs of the Makiritare people, a detailed 20-page glossary, and two maps.  The book, as is customary with North Point Press, is well-printed on excellent paper, stitched, and bound in a glossy wrapper.<br />If you're looking for something both different and utterly compelling, and if I haven't succeeded in convincing you, check out John Updike's review, because I'm pretty sure he will.  He certainly convinced me, and he was right!	2001-06-12
US	50869571	ROA7A1YEZB7F0	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	107	118	N	N	A golden book on what the Buddha was really all about.	ZEN MIND, BEGINNER'S MIND : Informal talks on Zen Meditation and practice by Shunryu Suzuki.  Edited by Trudy Dixon, with a Preface by Huston Smith and an Introduction by Richard Baker.  138 pp.  New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1970 and Reprinted.<br />Some years ago I undertook a fairly extensive program of reading in Indian, Chinese, and Japanese Buddhism and in Zen.  Most of my Zen  books have since disappeared.  Only the choicest remain, among which is  Shunryu Suzuki's 'Zen Mind Beginner's Mind.'<br />Buddhism may be said to have begun with the enlightement of the Buddha. Many centuries later, however, when Buddhism entered China, an incredibly elaborate and complex superstructure of Indian scholastic thought had grown up around the Buddha's original insight.  The  Chinese, with their basically down-to-earth and common sense attitude, had little use for Indian over-elaboration and set about ridding Buddhism of it.<br />The Chinese, as Lin Yutang says, believe in a reasonable use of  reason, and not in reason's excesses.  The end product of their effort to  rid Buddhist thought of its heavy freight of scholasticism, and to shift the emphasis from theory back to the practical by centering Buddhism once again in the enlightenment experience, became what the Chinese know as Ch'an and the Japanese as Zen.<br />As Shunryu Suzuki himself pointed out, when freed of unnecessary theory and speculation, Buddhism as Zen becomes something that is basically &quot;quite simple&quot; (page 64).  Its essence was brilliantly captured in the thirty-one verses of Third Patriarch Seng-ts'an's 'Hsin-hsin-ming,' the very first Zen treatise in verse.  This is a beautiful text that  deserves to be far better known, and an easily accessible translation will be found in D. T. Suzuki's 'Manual of Zen Budhism' ('On Believing  in Mind,' pages 76-82).<br />The first verse of the original Chinese may be read as follows, with oblique marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;To realize the Way is not difficult / If you'd only stop choosing; / Just let go of all of your hate, and love, / And everything will be brilliantly clear&quot; (my transl).<br />This statement may gain in meaning if we set it alongside an  observation made by the great Zen Master Dogen (1200-1253), founder of the Japanese Soto sect of Zen Buddhism and one of the most brilliant philosophical minds Buddhism has ever produced, who wrote in 'Genjo Koan,' the third chapter of his 'Shobogenzo' :<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad things to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (Tr., F. H. Cook, 'Sounds of Valley Streams,' page 66).<br />Suzuki Shunryu, who as a member of the Soto school was a direct  spiritual descendant of Dogen, would certainly have understood this.  In fact, so far as I can see, the idea expressed by both Seng-ts'an  and Dogen Zenji is at the very center of his book.<br />'Zen Mind Beginner's Mind' is a golden book that may be heartily recommended to all open-minded readers.  In it they will find a  Buddhism freed of all scholastic superfluities and unnecessary  elaboration, and one that returns us to what the Buddha was really  about.e Way is not difficult / If you'd only stop choosing; / Just let go of all of your hate, and love, / And everything will be brilliantly clear&quot; (my transl).   <br />This statement may gain in meaning if we set it alongside an  observation made by the great Zen Master Dogen (1200-1253), founder of the Japanese Soto sect of Zen Buddhism and one of the most brilliant philosophical minds Buddhism has ever produced, who wrote in 'Genjo Koan,' the third chapter of his 'Shobogenzo' :<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad things to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (Tr., F. H. Cook, 'Sounds of Valley Streams,' page 66). <br />Suzuki Shunryu, who as a member of the Soto school was a direct  spiritual descendant of Dogen, would certainly have understood this.   In fact, so far as I can see, the idea expressed by both Seng-ts'an  and Dogen Zenji is at the very center of his book.<br />'Zen Mind Beginner's Mind' is a golden book that may be heartily recommended to all open-minded readers.  In it they will find a  Buddhism freed of all scholastic superfluities and unnecessary  elaboration, and one that returns us to what the Buddha was really  about.	2001-06-12
US	50869571	R3MUPRNBZ3A6IL	0174436467	310702378	The Arden Dictionary of Shakespeare Quotations (Arden Dictionary of Shakespeare Quotations (Paper))	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Interesting &amp; Useful Dictionary of Shakespeare's Themes.	THE ARDEN DICTIONARY OF SHAKESPEARE QUOTATIONS.  Compiled by Jane Armstrong.  396 pp.  London : Thomson Learning, 2000 (1999).<br />The present compilation contains 3000 quotations, both well-known and lesser-known, from Shakespeare's plays and poems.  The quotations vary in length from short sentences such as &quot;For he was great of heart,&quot; through to longer passages such as Hamlet's soliloquy, &quot;To be or not to be,&quot; which can run to almost a page or more.  Most quotations, however, are quite short, and many consist only of &quot;a strikingly expressed thought or resonant phrase&quot; such as &quot;Do you smell a fault?&quot;<br />Speaker, addressee, and act/scene/line references are keyed to the Arden Shakespeare series, and some are followed by brief annotations which help clarify the context.  The book is rounded out with a 4-page Life of Shakespeare; a 12-page Glossary; an extensive 45-page Keyword Index; and an Index of References to Plays.<br />In her Preface, Editor Jane Armstrong writes that, as in &quot;the 'commonplace books' in which Shakespeare's contemporaries recorded memorable extracts from their reading,&quot; her book has been organized by topic - e.g., ABSENCE, DESIRES, GUILT, HASTE, LOVE - since she feels  that this &quot;often clearly reveals the concentration round a subject in  a particular play; and ... sometimes shows ideas recurring through Shakespeare's work, either in similar form or in a progression from the more straightforwardly expressed to the increasingly complex and embedded&quot; (pp. xi-xii).<br />The book, in other words, has been designed to serve a twofold purpose - primarily as a commonplace book or compilation of themes, and only  secondarily as a dictionary - and because it contains only 3000 quotations readers are occasionally not going to find what they may be  looking for. <br />I was surprised, for example, to discover that a key line  from 'Titus Andronicus' -  &quot;When will this fearful slumber havean  end?&quot; -  has not been included.  In fact, SLUMBER doesn't even appear  as a topic, since the single line containing it has been subsumed under SLEEP.  I was also, until I carefully read Armstrong's Preface, surpised to find that, although there are twenty &quot;heart&quot; quotations, HEART itself does not appear as a topic.  <br />To locate the line &quot;For he was great of heart,&quot; which has been included under the topic NOBILITY, you will have to search the Keyword Index.   In other words, if you are searching for a particular line you should  FIRST CHECK THE KEYWORD INDEX, since the book has not been arranged as  a dictionary of words but as a commonplace book of topics or themes, and  a more accurate (and less misleading) title for it would have been 'The  Arden Commonplace Book of Shakespeare Quotations' or 'The Arden Dictionary of Shakespeare's Themes.'               <br />A truly complete 'dictionary' that would perfectly satisfy all readers and in which we would all find all of our favorite passages and lines could of course only take the form of a rearrangement of Shakespeare's complete works, something clearly impracticable in a handy-sized book of just 396 pages.  <br />Within its limits, and given its aims, I've found that in use the Arden compilation is an interesting book that does a fairly good job on the whole.  Many of my favorite lines are there, though others aren't,  but in compensation I've been guided to interesting new lines and have enjoyed exploring certain themes.  The main frustration I've encountered  is that many passages seem too truncated, and I would have liked to have seen more of the poetic context.  But this of course would have meant a much larger book.<br />The book is bound in a decorative glossy wrapper, stitched, well-printed on good thin paper, and is quite a handsome production.  As a small 8vo in size (8 by 5 inches) it's not too big, has a nice look and feel to  it, and is easy to consult and read.  Althoughit isn't perfect (what is?), I'd say it's a useful (though occasionally frustrating) reference that will also provide interesting browsing material for the Shakespeare enthusiast.  <br />In sum, this is a book with many attractive features, but don't expect  to find everything you look for in it : only a Complete Shakespeare or perhaps something like the Schmidt Lexicon could provide that.  And to avoid the possibility of confusion, don't forget to read Jane Armstrong's Preface, in which she makes it perfectly clear that this book is _not_ primarily a dictionary of words.   It's intended to be something more interesting!	2001-06-12
US	50869571	R15YI6FGN6PNQP	0198129025	145433437	Titus Andronicus: The Oxford Shakespeare Titus Andronicus (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A useful and handsome edition of an under-rated classic.	TITUS ANDRONICUS.  Edited by Eugene M. Waith.  226 pp.  Oxford : Clarendon Press, 1984 and Reprinted.<br />Hearsay wreaks an incalculable amount of harm in the world, and all  of us are, to a greater or lesser extent, its victims.  We entertain the most inaccurate opinions about many things of which we have no real knowledge or experience - entire races and nations, individuals, happenings, places, books, etc.,  - often without either knowing or caring where these opinions came from.  And it can be a shock to  discover just how wrong we are.<br />Like almost everyone else, somewhere along the line I picked up the notion that Shakespeare's early tragedy, 'Titus Andronicus,' was a very inferior work and was hardly worth reading.  What a jolt I got when, quite by accident, I had a chance to watch the video of TITUS, the  recent brilliant adaptation of 'Titus Andronicus' by Julie Taymor in which an even more brilliant Anthony Hopkins plays the leading role.<br />I don't know how many minutes of viewing it took to reduce my previous 'opinion' to tatters, and it certainly had something to do with the superb acting, the original costumes, the well-designed settings, and Elliot Goldenthal's impressive musical score.  And  Eugene Waith, in his interesting Introduction to the present  edition, does make the point that this is a play which really has to  be seen to be fully appreciated.<br />But apart from enjoying the play as dramatic spectacle, I also found myself greatly enjoying the poetry.  No-one would pretend that it  reaches the heights of 'Hamlet' or 'King Lear,' but it's very far from the contemptible stuff it's generally reckoned to be.<br />Who, for example, could forget Hopkins' pacing and shading of Shakespeare's marvelous lines - those, for example, in the kitchen  scene - his finding of precisely the right rhythms and emphases and intonations preparatory to his calm gutting of the degenerate and worthless offspring of Tamura : &quot;Come, come, Lavinia ; look, thy foes are bound. . . .  O villains, Chiron and Demetrius, / Here stands the spring whom you have stained with mud, / This goodly summer with your winter mixed. . . &quot; (5.2.166-71).  After this, I just had to read the play, and was lucky to find a bargain copy of the Waith.<br />The series in which Waith's edition appears, 'The Oxford Shakespeare,' seems to have been designed as a rival or competitor to the well-known Arden series.  Both are scholarly editions, although the Oxford seems lighter in its demands on the reader, its spelling has been modernized, and its footnotes are far more concise and much easier to take in.  With regard to the latter, The 'Times Literary Supplement' remarked of the Oxford series : &quot;... an unacknowledged genius has solved the problem  of printing footnotes so that they can be understood and read with pleasure.&quot;<br />Waith's 69-page Introduction is quite full, and I found his discussions of 'The Play in Performance' and its 'Reception and Interpretation' especially interesting.  Personally I think he makes a very good case  for considering 'Titus Andronicus' a far more significant work of art  than received opinion would have it.<br />The book is rounded out with five Appendices and an Index, enriched with ten interesting Illustrations including the famous 'Peacham  Drawing,' which is given its own 7-page discussion in the Introduction,  is beautifully printed on excellent paper, and is also stitched.<br />As editions of Shakespeare go, the Waith seems to me to strike a nice balance between the needs of the scholar and those of the general reader, and it would make a handsome addition to the bookshelves of either.  But whether you get Waith's 'Titus Andronicus' or some other, you ought certainly to read this play, though not perhaps until after having listened to a recording of a good production or seen Anthony Hopkin's marvelous TITUS.  I think if you do you may find yourself changing your opinion of 'Titus Andronicus'too.icus' too.	2001-06-11
US	50869571	R1NUZ2TYGRZLBM	0812212762	584425665	History Begins at Sumer: Thirty-Nine Firsts in Recorded History	Books	5	188	200	N	N	We are all Sumerians, whether we know it or not.	Although I've been known to grumble at Kramer's dullness, the present book, far from being dull, ought to be of real interest to many. Professor Samuel Noah Kramer was the world's leading Sumerologist, but in this book he seems to have risen above  the dry academic persona we find in some of his other books and allowed his love and enthusiasm for things Sumerian to show.      Basically the book sets out to explain and describe, using extensive quotations from Sumerian Literature, what Kramer took to be thirty-nine civilizational firsts of the Sumerians.  Many new archaeological  discoveries have been made since the 3rd revised edition of 'History Begins at Sumer' was published in 1981, and current thinking seems to be leaning towards the view that, far from beginning in Sumer, civilization first arose further East in India.      But whether it first began in Sumer or in India, since the Indus script hasn't yet been deciphered, and the Indians didn't write on imperishable clay tablets anyway, we have as yet no thirty-nine Vedic Indian firsts, and perhaps should give Kramer the benefit of the doubt and enjoy his splendid book.    After a brief Introduction, the thirty-nine firsts follow.  Mutterings have been heard about the 'pop' overtones of the term 'firsts,' but it seems to me an interesting way of treating Sumer's history, and the book, in my opinion, is far more successful at capturing and holding one's attention than Kramer's later and more conventional study,  'The Sumerians.'    Most of the chapters are centered on a Sumerian text, some quite  brief and others fairly long, which Kramer envelopes with his full  and interesting commentary.  Often we are given a line drawing of the actual cuneiform tablet from which the text was taken, and these have a special fascination all of their own.  Besides the 28 line drawings, the book is further enriched with 34 halftones - sculptures, cuneiform tablets, stelae, artefacts, archaeological sites - which greatly add to the interest of the book.     Among the firsts covered are such things as: The First Schools, The First Case of Juvenile Delinquency, The First \\"War of Nerves,\\" The First Bicameral Congress, First Historian, The First Case of Tax Reduction, The First Legal Precedent, The First Pharmacopoeia, The First Moral Ideals, The First Animal Fables, The First Literary Debates, The First Love Song, The First Library Catalogue, The First \\"Sick\\" Society, The First  Long-Distance Champion, The First Sex Symbolism, Labor's First Victory, and so on.      Many of these and other chapters are memorable, and once having read them you'll never forget them. You'll never forget them because, in fact, they are about yourself. What I mean is that one of the more important things we learn from Kramer's fascinating book is that, whether we realize it or not, we are all, in a sense, Sumerians.      The patterns that were perhaps first laid down in Sumer - urbanization, monumental architecture, kingship, writing system, distinct social classes, laws, lawyers, lawcourts, taxes, formal education, libraries, a regular army, organized warfare, labor disputes, etc. - are still very much with us today.  We usually refer to the whole package as 'Civilization,' without realizing how indebted to the Sumerians we all are.  But Sumer, sadly, after a relatively brief efflorescence, crashed in ruins.  Here are a few lines from Kramer's 'Sumerian History, Culture and Literature' describing that crash:      \\"In the course of centuries Sumer became a \\"sick society\\"   ... it yearned for peace and was constantly at war; it professed such ideals as justice, equity and compassion, but abounded in injustice, inequality and oppression; materialistic and shortsighted, it unbalanced the ecology essential to its economy....  And so Sumer came to a cruel, tragic end\\" (in Diane Wolkstein and S. N. Kramer, 'Inanna - Queen of Heaven and Earth,' page 126).     Why, after achieving such brilliance, did Sumer crash in ruins?And Egypt?  And Athens?  And Rome?  And why does this pattern seem to be repeating itself today in the West?  Is civilization inherently unworkable?  Or is there another answer?  Personally, I think there is another answer.  But you won't find it in the works of Professor Samuel Noah Kramer.	2001-06-11
US	50869571	R24OVS01AJJ99Q	0952300214	788419326	Master Dogen's Shobogenzo: Book 1	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Attempting a more literally accurate translation of Dogen.	MASTER DOGEN'S SHOBOGENZO - Book 1. Translated by Gudo Wafu Nishijima and Chodo Cross. 358 pp. London : Windbell Publications Ltd., 1998 (1994).  ISBN 0 9523002 1 4  (Pbk).<br />The works of Zen Master Dogen (1200-53) are profound. They express the point-of-view of an enlightened Master. Such works, especially when written in a sinograph-based language such as Japanese or Chinese, present very real problems of interpretation, and there are few who are equal to the task of competently translating them. Of these few, Nishijima Roshi would certainly seem to be one.<br />Born in 1919 in Yokohama, he is a graduate of the prestigious Law Department of Tokyo University. Between 1940 and 1973 - when he became a Zen priest - he combined a career in the Ministry of Finance with daily practice in Zazen and study of the 'Shobogenzo.' In his brief but extremely interesting Preface he writes:<br />&quot;I think that reading Shobogenzo is the best way to come to an exact understanding of Buddhist theory, because Master Dogen was outstanding in his ability to understand and explain Buddhism rationally&quot; (page ix).<br />In comparing the present translation with three four others I have on my shelves, I was struck by what seems to me to be its greater clarity. Here, for example, is Norman Waddell's translation of the closing lines of fascicle 11 - Uji - Existence-Time :<br />&quot;Such investigations in thoroughgoing practice, reaching here and not reaching there - that is the time of being-time&quot; ('Eastern Buddhist,' Vol XII No.1, May 1979, page 129).<br />Here is the Nishijima-Cross translation of the same lines :<br />&quot;When we experience coming and experience leaving, and when we experience presence and experience absence, like this [i.e., as in the immediately preceding scriptural quotation], that time is Existence-Time&quot; (page 118).<br />One of the reasons for the difference between these two readings may have to do with Nishijima Roshi's expressed preference for a literal, as opposed to a more literary translation, as when he commented : &quot;I like the translation from which Master Dogen's Japanese can be guessed&quot; (page xi). But whatever may be the case, whereas the Waddell reading conveys little to me, the Nishijima-Cross reading immediately evokes such things as the felt presence of the absence that is death.<br />Besides its greater clarity, there are many other fine things in this book. These include the use, where appropriate, of Chinese characters (sinographs), and the fact that all passages have been keyed to the 'Gendaigo-yaku-shobogenzo,' Nishijima Roshi's 13-volume edition of the 'Shobogenzo' in Modern Japanese, features the advanced student will greatly appreciate. In addition, all of Dogen's extensive quotations from the Chinese Buddhist scriptures have been italicized, and the value of this becomes instantly apparent once one starts reading.<br />The book is rounded out with seven Appendices: 1. A Japanese-Pinyin table of the Chinese Masters; 2. The text of the Popular Edition of the Fukan-zazengi; 3. A table of the Buddhist Patriarchs; 4. An illustration of the Kasaya; 5. A ground plan and detailed description of a Traditional Temple Layout; 6. A bilingual Chinese-English collection of important passages from the 'Lotus Sutra'; 7. A detailed Glossary of Sanskrit terms. Finally we have been given no less than five Bibliographies.<br />The book is bound in a strong glossy wrapper, stitched, and well-printed on excellent paper. Those who may be new to Dogen would probably be better off starting with a book of selections such as Kazuaki Tanahashi's 'Moon in a Dewdrop,' but advanced students will certainly want to have this set. <br />All in all, it has to be one of the finest and most useful translations of the 'Shobogenzo' that we have ever seen. But since this first volume contains only the first twenty-one fascicles of the 95-chapter 'Shobogenzo,' to get the complete text you will of course also have to acquire Volumes 2, 3, and 4.	2001-06-10
US	50869571	RHNNCIEO5A0J6	0062737325	924516237	Brush Up Your Shakespeare!: An Infectious Tour Through the Most Famous and Quotable Words and Phrases from the Bard	Books	5	12	12	N	N	He hath been at a great feast of language....	BRUSH UP YOUR SHAKESPEARE.  By Michael Macrone.  With Illustrations by Tom Lulevitch.  235 pp.  New York : Harper Perennial, 1990 and Reprinted.<br />There are many possible approaches to Shakespeare, and in the present book Macrone has hit on the new and interesting idea of giving us, not yet another standard anthology or ponderous critical study, but a lighthearted &quot;tour through the most famous and quotable words and  phrases from the bard.&quot;  <br />Macrone writes : &quot;We're here to give you a handle on the famous lines you already know are Shakespeare's, and to alert you to our quieter, less conspicuous borrowings. . . .  In the meantime, you'll be offered an incidental introduction (or reintroduction) to famous passages, concisely explained. . . .&quot; (page xii).<br />In other words, to paraphrase Moth in 'Love's Labor's Lost' - 'He hath been at a great feast of language, and stol'n the scraps.'  The main  body of the book - 'THE QUOTABLE AND THE NOTABLE : Famous Phrases from Shakespeare' - gives us well over one hundred of these glorious 'scraps,' scraps such as Othello's :<br />&quot;My story being done, / She gave me for my pains a world of sighs; / She swore, in faith 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange; / 'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful. / She wished she had not heard it,  yet she wished / That heaven had made her such a man&quot; (page 108).    Each of the passages, which have been kept &quot;as short as possible ... while still providing enough of the context to make the key phrase intelligible&quot; (page xiii), has been chosen to highlight an original  usage of Shakespeare - in this case &quot;passing strange&quot; -  usages which seem to have set the course of the English language.  They are accompanied, on average, by about two thirds of a page or so of  Macrone's interesting comments, some of which may hold surprises even  for the seasoned Shakespearean.<br />Despite his light touch, the book is a work of careful scholarship,  and is rounded out with several interesting extras : a 10-page list of 'Common and Uncommon Words Coined by Shakespeare;' a list of 'Phrases Often Misattributed to Shakespeare;' and a list of famous 'Titles Borrowed from Shakespeare.'  We have also been given two useful  indexes : an 'Index of Words and Phrases,' and an 'Index of Characters  by Play.'<br />Truly surprising is the first list.  Who would have thought that we owe to Shakespeare such common words, for example, as  - admirable,  amazement,  bloodstained, coldhearted, dewdrop, employment, eventful, hostile, laughable -  and a whole host of others?  <br />Finally, to further enrich what is already a rich mix, interspersed throughout are thirty-nine clever and amusing drawings by Tom Lulevitch, drawings which remind me a bit of Tenniel's illustrations to the Alice books, and which add to the cheerful atmosphere of the book.<br />Macrone seems to have spared no pains in making BRUSH UP YOUR  SHAKESPEARE as pleasing, useful, and interesting as he could.  It would make a wonderful gift, not only for those who already like Shakespeare, but also for those who, probably as the result of an unpleasant earlier experience, think that they don't.  Macrone's joy in Shakespeare is infectious.  His touch is light, and he has the art of teaching without seeming to teach.  His book is hugely entertaining, and can be read straight through or simply browsed in an idle moment.  <br />It would, among other things, make a great book for the bathroom, and  it might just lead at least a few anti-Shakespearians to rethink their position, and maybe even go on to savor the full feast by reading a  play or two.  In fact, I suspect that this was probably Macrone's secret aim.  He wants others to fall in love with Shakespeare too.  Let's hope his Love's Labor's weren't Lost!	2001-06-07
US	50869571	R2CQW2G9EOLZ80	088001475X	8347219	The Soul is Here for Its Own Joy: Sacred Poems from Many Cultures	Books	3	29	39	N	Y	Bly returns us here to the emotional stew.	I first read Robert Bly's earlier anthology, 'News of the Universe : Poems of Twofold Consciousness' (1980), many years ago and often find myself returning to it, not only to re-read my favorites from   its 150 poems, but also to re-read Bly's full, informative, and  extremely interesting introductions to the six Parts into which the  book is divided.<br />'News of the Universe' is a tightly knit and beautifully assembled whole, and is built on a powerful thesis.  Basically what the essays and poems set out to do, and they do it very effectively indeed, is to demonstrate that what Bly calls the &quot;Old Position,&quot; the &quot;pride in human reason&quot; and &quot;the conviction that nature is defective because it lacks reason&quot; has had the effect of &quot;deforming all poetry and culture&quot; (page 3).  What we must learn to realize and to fully embrace is the notion that human consciousness is only one of the many kinds of consciousness operating in the universe.<br />Since 'News of the Universe' had such a profound influence on me, and has remained one of my favorite books, I had very high hopes for the present book.  After all, its title - 'The Soul is Here for Its Own Joy' - is very promising.  Although the statement is perfectly true, there aren't many today who are telling us we are here for our own joy.  More often than not what we are being told is that we are here to be  good citizens, or good workers, or good party members, or good  whatever - but not that we are here to actually enjoy life, though  anyone who has observed animals at play ought to suspect as much.  So  if Bly had succeeded in assembling a whole collection of poems dealing with this vitally important message, it was something I was definitely interested in reading.<br />You may imagine my disappointment when, on receiving the book and turning to its mere 2-page 'Introduction' (which isn't really an Introduction at all), I found Bly confessing that he had originally intended to namethe anthology 'Baskets that Hold God' (page xviii).   So why didn't he?  <br />But even worse was to follow, for not only are the Introductions to each of its parts skimpy, and altogether lacking the solid intellectual content of those of his earlier anthology, but I noted that Part X is named : 'THE SPIRIT - WHO IS A GUEST OF THE SOUL - WILL NEVER BE AT HOME ON THIS EARTH.'  Gulp!  Readers will at once see the glaring contradiction.  If the soul is here for its  own joy, how can it possibly joy if it will never be at home on this earth?  Bly, so far as I can see, seems to want to have his cake and  eat it.<br />The present book, I'm sorry to say, doesn't seem to me to be a particularly well-conceived project at all, and its title is certainly misleading.  It contains a number of fine poems.  It also contains a lot of flowery God-intoxicated Sufi writing - Kabir, Rumi, etc., - which will appeal to those who find that sort of thing appealing.  Frankly I found the book rather monotonous.  Perhaps it requires a more 'spiritual' type of reader.  It certainly lacks the thrust and excitement of Bly's earlier anthology.<br />Readers who may be simply looking for an international anthology of 'spiritual' poems, poems about humans and their involvement with what they take to be 'God,' will probably like it.  I see Bly as having reneged and fallen into the very anthropocentrism that his earlier anthology provided such an eloquent testimony against.  Bly, in short,  returns us here to the emotional stew, and seems to have completely forgotten the wonderful news of the universe that his earlier anthology brought.	2001-06-06
US	50869571	R2WY4PZPJS3E6L	0374525870	667547737	Tales from Ovid: 24 Passages from the Metamorphoses	Books	5	38	39	N	N	One of those golden books you'll want to return to often.	Anyone who may have seen the brilliant Anthony Hopkins' movie, TITUS, a movie based on Shakespeare's most Ovidian play, 'Titus Andronicus,' and one which actually features Ovid's book, and who may now have a yen to read or re-read Ovid, could do worse than take a look at Ted Hughes' reworkings, in modern idiom, of Ovid's fascinating tales. <br />Hughes, in his brief but quite informative Preface, finds in both Shakespeare and Ovid a &quot;common taste for tortured subjectivity and catastrophic extremes of passion.&quot;  He continues : &quot;Above all, Ovid  was interested in passion.  Or rather, in what a passion feels like to the one possessed of it.  Not just ordinary passion either, but passion 'in extremis'&quot; (pages viii-ix).<br />As a passionate man himself, one can understand the appeal that Ovid has for Hughes, and may suspect that he, if anyone, was the man to give us a modernized Ovid.  Personally I found myself enthralled by Ted Hughes' versions of these tales.  So what, if in furtherance of his poetic aims, he has reworked the tales to some extent?  Hughes is  an exceptionally talented poet, and I'll leave it to those who are his equals in poetic talent to argue with his procedures.  I doubt there  can be many.<br />Hughes' incredible skill as a poet is everywhere in evidence on these pages.  His handling of image and sound and rhythm and line length,  his lucid diction, and his stunning ability to find precisely the right word -  as in such lines as &quot;no earth / spun in empty air on her own magnet&quot; (pages 3-4), or &quot;Everwhere he taught / the tree its  leaf&quot; (page 5), or &quot;Echo collapsed in sobs, / As her voice lurched among the mountains&quot; (page 77), or  &quot;And there she was - the Arcadian beauty, Callisto. /  He stared.  Lust bristled up his thighs / And poured into the roots of his teeth&quot; (page 46) - such skill leaves me in awe.  Let purists rage, but if this isn't exactly what Ovid said, then perhaps  it's what he should have said, or would have said if he too had been a vigorous Northerner like Hughes.  <br />There are free translations of Ovid such as that of Ted Hughes.  There are also more literal translations such as that of Rolfe Humphries.   Both have their uses and it isn't the case that one is good and the  other is bad.  Hughes is good and Humphries is not bad either.  <br />I suppose what it comes down to is whether you prefer major poet Ovid as filtered through the sensibility of another major poet, or Ovid as filtered through the mind of a Latin scholar (persons who are not usually noted for their poetic abilities, though Housman was an exception).  But if it's 'poetry' you are interested in, you won't be going far wrong in plumping for Hughes.  It's one of those golden books you'll want to return to often.	2001-06-05
US	50869571	R19JLKCYE3SS3C	0834801795	308376011	From The Zen Kitchen To Enlightenment: Refining Your Life	Books	5	21	22	N	N	This may be the only Zen book you'll ever need.	REFINING YOUR LIFE : From the Zen Kitchen to Enlightenment by Zen Master Dogen and Kosho Uchiyama.  Translated by Thomas Wright.  122 pp. New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1983 and Reprinted.<br />'Refining Your Life' comprises two main parts.  First we are given a  lucid translation of Dogen Zenji's 'Tenzo Kyokun' - 'Instructions for the Zen Cook' (pp. 3-23).  Then follows Kosho Uchiyama Roshi's insightful commentary, 'How to Cook Your Life' (pp. 23-97).  The book also has an 8-page Translator's Introduction, and is rounded out with a section of Notes and a Glossary.<br />It would be difficult to overestimate the importance of  Dogen (1200-1253).  As one of the most powerful and brilliant minds Asia has produced - and it has produced many - his works should be viewed,  not so much as a purely local and Japanese phenomenon, but as a supreme contribution to world literature.  For all of us, he is, as Taizan Maezumi Roshi has said, an inexhaustible spring of wisdom.<br />If Dogen's 'Instructions for the Zen Cook' was simply a treatise on the rules and manners of the Zen kitchen, it would have little interest  for us.  Dogen, however, goes on to draw a parallel between preparing meals for a Zen monastery and 'cooking' or 'refining' our lives.  The important thing to realize is that we cannot make things happen. Everything that comes, whether good or bad, is to be accepted as the Self, and life should be lived free of bias and on the basis of Self. Kosho Uchiyama writes:<br />&quot;As difficult as it may seem to be, the highest, ultimate truth in life is grounded in the fact that there are no favorable or adverse circumstances, no fortune or misfortune.  All there is, is the life of the Self&quot; (page 78).<br />The present book can be recommended to readers who may be new to Dogen. At just twenty pages, the basic text is quite short.  And Kosho Uchiyama's modern-day interpretation is an eminently readable guide to Dogen's thought.  As such the book provides an excellent introduction to Dogen's other works, such as may be found, for example, in  Francis H. Cook's selections from Dogen's 'Shobogenzo,' or in Kazuaki Tanahashi's 'Moon in a Dewdrop : Writings of Zen Master Dogen.'  On the other hand, it may be the only Zen book you'll ever need - it's that good.	2001-06-05
US	50869571	R3AV9M2R5NJVN9	0231044151	1216669	Ryokan:  Zen Monk - Poet of Japan	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A fine edition of an important Zen poet.	RYOKAN : Zen Monk-Poet of Japan.  Translated by Burton Watson. 121 pages.  New York : Columbia University Press, 1977 and Reprinted.    Burton Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar  and as a fine translator. Unlike certain others, he wears his scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter. His many translations from Chinese and Japanese Literature are  of uniformly high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often wants to returns to.     Watson tells us that Ryokan (1758-1831) left about 450 Chinese poems  and 1400 Japanese poems.  The present book, besides giving us a brief, interesting, and informative 13-page Introduction, contains translations of 43 of the Chinese and 83 of the Japanese poems, along with two very short prose pieces - 'Admonitory Words' and 'Statement on Begging for Food.'      Whereas we have been given only the bare translations of the Chinese poems, Watson has thoughtfully provided \\"the originals of the Japanese poems ... in romanized form, since poetry in classical Japanese is quite intelligible in such form\\" (page 12).  Finding numbers have been  included for all of the poems, and bibliographical details of the  sources used by Watson will be found on pages 12-13 of his Introduction.     Ryokan (1758-1831) is one of Japan's best-loved poets, and was born in the \\"snow country\\" of Echigo Province on the west coast of Japan. His family was fairly prosperous, the atmosphere in his home was literary  and religious, and at the age of about nineteen, possibly as the result of some inner spiritual crisis, he decided to become a Buddhist monk and entered the local Zen temple, Kosho-ji.     It was at this time that he took the name 'Ryokan' - 'ryo' signifying good; 'kan' signifying generosity and largeheartedness. It would be difficult to think of a more appropriate name than 'Good Heart' for the kind of person that Ryokan was, and it goes a great way towards explaining the greatlove the Japanese have for him.     In him we find the heart of the mother - one who doesn't judge, one who understands, one who accepts and loves us as we are and for what we  are - but in Ryokan's case one whose love extended to the whole universe and its myriad beings, whether human, animal, or plant, even the inanimate.     After twelve years of Zen training, Ryokan left Kosho-ji and began a series of pilgrimages that lasted five years. He then returned to his native village, found an abandoned hermitage nearby, and was to spend most of the rest of his life there, meditating, writing, and interacting with the world around him.     The poems he wrote are largely concerned with events in his daily life, and can be read with enjoyment by anyone.  In them we find him observing nature, sitting alone through long cold nights and suffering other hardships, exhibiting great compassion for non-human creatures, remembering the past, struggling with loneliness, drinking sake with the local farmers, and playing with the village children.  Seemingly simple, these poems can conceal real depths, depths that will be apparent to those familiar with Zen and with Buddhist ideas such as 'no-mind' and 'impermanence,' and with certain Buddhist symbols.     But, as I've indicated, a knowledge of these is not really necessary to appreciate the poems, since Ryokan's main appeal is to our humanity, something we all share. Here is an example of one of the shorter Chinese poems:    Blue sky, cold wild-geese crying;  empty hills, tree leaves whirling.  Sunset, road through a hazy village:  going home alone, carrying an empty bowl (page 78).    Here is one of the Japanese poems:    Children!  shall we be going now  to the hill  of Iyahiko  to see how the violets are blooming? (page 27).    Sometimes it seems to me that much of modern literature is a literature of confusion, but that what Ryokan has to offer is a literature of clarity.  Ryokan was fully human. He had established contact withreality. His love and compassion were infinite. In this he becomes a model for us all.    The present book, as I've indicated, gives only a small selection from Ryokan.  Those whose appetite has been whetted, and who would like more, might take a look at John Stevens [[ASIN:0834805707 One Robe, One Bowl: The Zen Poetry of Ryokan]], another book of selections which I'm sure they will also enjoy.  On the whole, I think Stevens succeeds slightly better in some ways, but though Stevens is good, Watson is good too, and there are few who could do as good a job as either.	2001-06-04
US	50869571	R2U6QIJH1WMKOE	0802130194	953246118	Zen Poems of China and Japan: The Crane's Bill (An Evergreen Book)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	It's all in the poems!	THE CRANE'S BILL : Zen Poems of China and Japan.  Translated by Lucien Stryk and Takashi Ikemoto with the assistance of Taigan Takayama, Zen Master.  143 pp.  New York : Grove Press, 1973 and Reprinted.<br />Zen poetry is one of the glories of Zen, and yet few in the West seem  to care or even know about it.  Though undoubtedly sincere in their efforts to understand Zen, most readers seem drawn to prose treatises or explications or analyses of one sort or another, while overlooking  the fact that, as Taigan Takayama expresses it : &quot;Zen detests conceptualization&quot; (page xi).  Tenzan Yasuda has expressed the same  idea this way : &quot;What expresses cosmic truth in the most direct and concise way - that is the heart of Zen art&quot; (page xxxvii).<br />The poetry of Zen ranges all the way from the tiny seventeen-syllable haiku of a stupendous poet such as Santoka, which have been beautifully translated by John Stevens (in 'Mountain Tasting : Zen Haiku by Santoka Taneda'), through to the Zen verse treatise, of which the finest example is the Third Patriarch Seng-ts'an's 'Hsin-hsin-ming.'  This poem brilliantly captures the essence of Zen in its thirty-one verses, and is  a text that deserves to be far better known.  Although the present book is devoted to shorter poems, an easily accessible translation of the 'Hsin-hsin-ming' will be found in D. T. Suzuki's 'Manual of Zen  Buddhism' ('On Believing in Mind,' pages 76-82).<br />'Crane's Bill' is a collaborative effort which falls into three parts.  First we are given, in a Foreword, Preface, and Introduction, 42 pages  of interesting and informative material in which a very persuasive case is made for the fact that we should be reading these poems.  Then follow 151 poems on enlightenment, death, and general subjects, drawn from a wide range of Chinese and Japanese writers.  The book is rounded out  with 48 pages of notes on the poems, though it unfortunately lacks both an index and a conversion table of the Japanized Chinese names<br />The translations, as might have been expected from the present team, read very well.  Here is Poem 1, with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;The mountain slopes crawl with lumberjacks, / Axing everything in sight - / Yet crimson flowers / Burn along the stream&quot; (page 5).<br />Here to provide a comment on Poem 1 is Poem 14:<br />&quot;Iron will's demanded of / the student of the Way - / It's always on the mind. / Forget all - good, bad. /  Suddenly it's yours&quot; (page 10).<br />Compare this with first verse of the Hsin-hsin-ming, the original Chinese of which may be read as follows:<br />&quot;To realize the Way is not difficult / If you'd only stop choosing; / Just let go of all of your hate, and love, / And everything will be brilliantly clear.&quot;<br />Do we really need to know more?  If you don't believe me, here is  Poem 97 from the great Japanese Zen Master Dogen (1200-1253):<br />&quot;Four and fifty years / I've hung the sky with stars. / Now I leap through - / What shattering!&quot; (page 63).<br />'Crane's Bill' is an extremely interesting and highly successful collaborative effort which no-one who is seriously interested in Zen can afford to overlook.  Because it really is all in the poems!	2001-06-04
US	50869571	R2LSH71HN3728T	0802130658	716817371	Manual of Zen Buddhism	Books	5	114	120	N	N	Approaching the Masters with humility and respect.	MANUAL OF ZEN BUDDHISM by D. T. Suzuki.  192 pp.  London : Rider and Company, 1974 (1950) and Reprinted.<br />Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki was no ordinary man.  A Buddhist scholar, and proficient not only in Chinese and Japanese, but also in Sanskrit, Pali, Tibetan, English, and other languages, after attaining his Enlightenment at the age of twenty-seven he imposed upon himself an extremely  difficult task - that of bringing a knowledge of Zen Buddhism to the West, and of somehow trying to get over into English, a language which was quite unprepared to receive them, the ideas and insights of the  great Zen Masters.<br />For over two thousand years, many of Asia's most brilliant intellects have been actively engaged in exploring the mysteries of mind, an exploration which Jung himself was to admit could hardly be said to  have yet begun in the West.  <br />Anyone who has looked, for example, in one of the huge collections of Buddhist Scriptures such as the Taisho Tripitaka, or in a comprehensive Sanskrit-Chinese-Japanese Dictionary of Buddhist technical and philosophic terms, will have realized that, Buddhism has developed tens of thousands of words, many of them expressing the finest shades of meaning, for which English has no real equivalents.  <br />This fantastic profusion of ideas and vocabulary, a sort of higher mathematics of thought compared to simple arithmetic, has generated a literature of extraordinary subtlety and sophistication.<br />One of the fruits of Suzuki sensei's sixty-five years writing, translating, and teaching, is the present book, the object of which, as he states in his Preface, is &quot;to inform the reader of the various literary materials relating to [Zen] monastery life&quot; (page 11).  We are, in a sense, being invited into a Zen Monastery, and granted the privilege of viewing a selection of its literary and artistic treasures.<br />In the case of an actual applicant for admission to a Zen Temple or monastery, no-one would think of simplybreezing in and saying : &quot;OK. I'm here.  What can you guys offer me?&quot;  Applicants, as is well known, are kept waiting at the gate, often for many days, before being allowed the privilege of meeting with the Master.  <br />It's a test, a test of the applicant's humility, respect, and determination.  And when the applicant finally    does get to see the Master, he is expected to show the same respect, not perhaps so much for the Master as a person as for what he stands  for - for the state of enlightenment and for the vast ocean of Buddhist knowledge he represents.<br />Suzuki sensei, would, I feel sure, have hoped that we ourselves show a similar respect for the contents of the present book - for its  Prayers and Invocations; for its selections from the Sutras and from  the Zen Masters; and for its fifty interesting  plates and illustrations which depict Chinese and Japanese statuary, scroll paintings,  woodblocks, etc., of a kind one would find at any Zen Temple in Japan.  <br />All of them are standard Zen and are standard Buddhist fare, but just  as at a feast we are not expected to eat everything on the table,  readers are free to select whatever most appeals to them, without necessarily being dismissive of items that don't happen to suit their taste.<br />The more devotionally inclined may be strongly drawn by some of the Prayers.  Students of the sutras will be delighted to find one of the  key sutras of Zen, the Prajnaparamitahrdaya or Heart Sutra, a sutra one  could spend one's life studying (as did Edward Conze), along with   extracts from the Lotus, Lankavatara, and the mind-boggling Diamond Sutra, and a useful resume of the Surangama.  Those drawn to the early Masters won't be disappointed either.  <br />Personally I was happy to discover Suzuki sensei's fine translation of Seng-ts'an's 'Hsin-hsin-ming' ('On Believing in Mind,' pages 76-82), the very first verse treatise on Zen - which in the original Chinese takes up just two thirds of a page inthe more than 100,000 pages of 'Taisho' - a text which embodies the quintessence of Zen and that deserves to be far better known.  Here is the first of its thirty-one verses, with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;The Perfect Way knows no difficulties / Except that it refuses to make preferences; / Only when freed from hate and love, / It reveals itself fully and without disguise&quot; (page 76).<br />I don't know how long Suzuki sensei spent on his translations, but I  do know that Peter Haskel spent ten years to give us his marvelous translation of Bankei, and I myself, inspired by the version in the present book, spent three years working on a translation of the Hsin-hsin-ming, a text which has yet to yield up its full lode of meaning. <br />There are many other deep and wonderful texts in this book, including two versions of 'The Ten Oxherding Pictures.' Some of these texts will appeal to one kind of person, others to another.  But all will repay careful study by the serious student, and by one who approaches them in an attitude of humility and respect.  <br />Many other Zen anthologies have appeared since Suzuki sensei's  pioneering effort, some of them with more 'up-to-date' (though not necessarily superior) translations, but his 'Manual of Zen Buddhism' has always had a special importance for me.  After three years spent studying just one of its texts, I wonder how long it will take me to assimilate the rest?  And there must have been many in the past, in  both China and Japan, who were happy to nibble on much less than the feast provided here.	2001-06-03
US	50869571	R1G1X5FMO0R9AU	0156999811	120952471	The Zen Koan: Its History and Use in Rinzai Zen	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A highly successful collaborative effort.	THE ZEN KOAN : Its History and Use in Rinzai Zen.  By Isshu Miura and Ruth Fuller Sasaki.  With Reproductions of Ten Drawings by Hakuin Ekaku.  156 pp.  New York : Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1965 and  Reprinted.<br />Although the word 'koan' has now entered the English language, there are still many who don't have a clear and accurate idea of just what a koan is, and how it fits into traditional Zen Practice.  The present book, as its subtitle indicates, has two aims : 1. To offer us  &quot;an essay on the history of the origin and use of the koan by Chinese Ch'an masters and its further development by their heirs, the Rinzai Japan&quot;; 2. To also offer us, in Ruth Fuller Sasaki's English translations, a series of eight talks given in New York by Miura Isshu Roshi on &quot;the system of koan study at present in use in all the Rinzai monasteries in Japan&quot; (page x).<br />This book therefore, although of course it contains a number of koans, should not be mistaken for a collection of koans, but is rather a very well-written and informative introduction to all such collections, and one that clears away whatever misconceptions we  may have.  Sasaki emphasizes that :<br />&quot;The koan is not a conundrum to be solved by nimble wit.  It is not a verbal psychiatric device for shocking the disintegrated ego of a student into some kind of stability.  Nor ... is it ever a paradoxical statement except to those who view it from outside.  When the koan is resolved it is realized to be a simple and clear statement made  from the state of consciousness which it has helped to awaken&quot; (pages xi-xii).<br />In addition to Ruth Fuller Sasaki's 30-page 'History of the Koan in Rinzai,' and Miura Isshu Roshi's eight lectures on koan study,  the book also contains two surprising bonuses.  The first of these, 'Selections from A Zen Phrase Anthology,' gives us 210 'jakugo' or 'capping phrases' from the 'Zenrin Kushu,' an anthology of famous and beautiful lines &quot;from Buddhistsutras, the records of the Chinese Zen patriarchs, Confucian texts, Taoist writings, and the works of Chinese poets&quot; (page 79).  <br />The Japanese student often memorizes abridged versions of the 'Zenrin Kushu' &quot;for within its thousands of phrases he must find the particular traditional ... &quot;capping phrase&quot; ... for the koan he is studying, and present it to his teacher as the final step in his study of the koan&quot; (page 80).  For each of the capping phrases we are given the original Chinese text in Chinese characters (which cannot of course be reproduced here), the romanized Japanese reading, Sasaki's English translation, and sometimes a brief note.  Here is an example, with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;142. [Chinese characters] / Enzan kagiri naku hekisoso / Endlessly rise the distant mountains, / Blue heaped upon blue&quot; (page 105).<br />One easily available Japanese edition of the 'Zenrin Kushu' is the abridged version edited by SHIBAYAMA Zenkei (Kyoto : Kichudo, 1952).<br />Since, as Sasaki explains in her Foreword, the subject of 'The Zen Koan' is Hakuin Ekaku's (1686-1769) system of koan study, and long quotations  from him are given in Miura Isshu Roshi's lectures, the work would not  be complete without some examples of his brilliant paintings and calligraphy, which he used in teaching Zen, particularly to his lay followers (page xiii).<br />Hakuin was a sort of Picasso of Zen, and these paintings, all of which have explanatory inscriptions, are for me one of the high points of the book.  Once again, besides halftone reproductions of the ink paintings, we have been given printed versions of Hakuin's inscribed texts in the original Sino-Japanese characters, romanized Japanese readings,  and very readable English translations by Ruth Fuller Sasaki.  <br />One of my favorites is THE MONKEY, which gives a delightfully comic painting of a young monkey hanging by one arm from a branch, and reaching down with the other towards the water.  Sasaki's translation of the inscription reads:<br />&quot;The monkey is reaching for the moon in the water / Until death overtakes him he'll never give up. / If he'd let go the branch and disappear in the deep pool / The whole world would shine in dazzling pureness&quot; (page 132).<br />Another of my favorites is the masterpiece, KANNON, for which I'll just have to refer you to the book.  'The Zen Koan' is a highly successful collaborative effort, and should prove of interest to anyone who has the slightest interest at all in the Zen koan.	2001-06-03
US	50869571	RAV4H39Y7FADY	0062700847	609817548	Barnhart Concise Dictionary of Etymology	Books	4	197	212	N	Y	A splendid dictionary, but hardly a real book.	THE BARNHART CONCISE DICTIONARY OF ETYMOLOGY.  Edited by Robert K. Barnhart.  916 pp.  New York : Harper Collins Publishers, 1995.<br />Most readers who enjoy poking around in the histories of words will probably like this dictionary.  Printed in a tiny, though extremely clear and readable font, and with its 916 pages of double-columns, it will provide many interesting hours of browsing and research to all lovers  of language who like to know where the words we use came from, their evolution, and something of the submerged though potent freight  of their connotations.<br />As might have been expected from a 'Concise Dictionary,' the  derivations, which happily avoid the use of pesky abbreviations and symbols, are themselves fairly concise.  Although some are much longer, most of them seem to run to an average of about a hundred or  so words, but they should be found adequate enough for ordinary  purposes.  It quickly resolved a question I had about the word  &quot;ether&quot; in Emily Dickinson, one that had stumped other etymological  dictionaries.<br />Predictably, however, and like other current etymological dictionaries, the Barnhart Concise doesn't yet seem to have recognized the existence  of the Sumerian language.  For the word MAMMA (page 453), for example, we are given only the standard explanation and European cognates.<br />But, all in all, the Barnhart Concise succeeds admirably in achieving  what it sets out to do : to give us concise though detailed and readable accounts of most of the words - 21,000 in all - that we are likely to be hunting for information about.  The only real problem that I can see  with this dictionary is that it isn't really a book, but is instead what the docile modern 'unit of consumption' has been conned into accepting  as a book.<br />In contrast to the high-quality paper and excellent typography, the binding is two bits of cardboard covered, not with a handsome and nice-feeling cloth, but with rather ugly black paper.  Who would have thought that a small piece of cotton or synthetic had become  too costly for modern man to afford?  As for the spine, instead of being stitched and durable and making for a book that will last and will open flat, it is simply - YUCK! - glued.  I wonder when it will start to dry  out and crack?<br />Curious that after a century of 'Progress,' and with our escalating spoliation of the planet, and our massive, advanced, and computerized technology, technology which has considerably reduced the cost  of manufacturing a book, we seem to have become poorer than the Victorians and earlier folks, most of whose books were beautifully produced and are still as good as new.  Still, I suppose someone must  pay for those monogrammed driveways....<br />Any 'book' which comes in such a wretched and inferior binding, hardly deserves to be rated at more than a single star.  But because the Concise Barnhart is one of the best dictionaries of its kind, and because of its legible text, I've given it four but may not be quite so charitable in future.  After all, neither you nor I are mere 'units of consumption.'  We also have feelings, one of which can be disappointment.  Or am I the only person left who still likes things  to be real?uld have thought that a small piece of cotton or synthetic had become  too costly for modern man to afford?  As for the spine, instead of being stitched and durable and making for a book that will last and will open flat, it is simply - YUCK! - glued.  I wonder when it will start to dry  out and crack?<br />Curious that after a century of 'Progress,' and with our escalating spoliation of the planet, and our massive, advanced, and computerized technology, technology which has considerably reduced the cost  of manufacturing a book, we seem to have become poorer than the Victorians and earlier folks, most of whose books were beautifully produced and are still as good as new.  Still, I suppose someone must  pay for those monogrammed driveways....<br />Any 'book' which comes in such a wretched and inferior binding, hardly deserves to be rated at more than a single star.  But because the Concise Barnhart is one of the best dictionaries of its kind, and because of its legible text, I've given it four but may not be quite so charitable in future.  After all, neither you nor I are mere 'units of consumption.'  We also have feelings, one of which can be disappointment.  Or am I the only person left who still likes things  to be real?	2001-06-02
US	50869571	RNY2R555ZIUW9	0824810236	703932796	Zen Action/Zen Person	Books	5	46	50	N	N	A clear, deep, and perceptive account of Zen.	Some years ago I undertook a fairly extensive program of reading in Zen.  Most of my Zen books have since disappeared.  Only the choicest remain, among which is the Kasulis.<br />For those who have assimilated their D. T. Suzuki and Alan  Watts, who have substantial portions of the Prajnaparamita, Dogen, Hakuin, and Bankei under their belt, as well as a smattering of the great Chinese Masters such as Seng-ts'an, and who are now ready to get their teeth into some really deep analysis, I can heartily  recommend 'Zen Action, Zen Person.'<br />Its author, T. P. Kasulis, is a professional American philosopher who has trained in both Chinese and Japanese, in the Asian thought  which preceded the development of Zen, and in Zen practice - essential  requirements for anyone who wishes to really come to grips with the profound  and sophisticated approach to reality that we refer to as Zen.   Although, at just 177 pages, his book isn't a big book, it holds far  more in its pages than many a much bigger one.<br />It would take a professional student of philosophy, someone who was well up, not only on Asian thought, but also on such philosophers as Heidegger, to really do justice to this book.  As a mere amateur, who nevertheless found the Kasulis extraordinarily interesting, I'll  have to content myself here with describing its contents.  The book  falls into three parts:<br />PART I /  THE CONTEXT OF NOTHINGNESS.  Chapter 1.  The Cultural  Setting : Context and Personal Meaning.  2.  Nagarjuna : The Logic of Emptiness.  3.  Chinese Taoism : The Pre-ontology of Nonbeing.  4.  No-Mind : The Zen Response to Nothingness.<br />PART II / PERSONAL MEANING IN ZEN PRACTICE.  5.  Zen and Reality. 6.  Dogen's Phenomenology of Zazen.  7.  Dogen : Person as Presence. 8.  Hakuin : The Psychodynamics of Zen Training.<br />Part III / THE PERSON AS ACT.  9.  Zen Action / Zen Person.  10. Philosophical Postscript : Toward a Zen Humanism.<br />The book is rounded out with a brief section of Notes, a useful bibliography of Works Cited, a Glossary of Chinese and Japanese names (with sinographs courteously provided), and a 5-page Index.<br />This book is full of good things.  Chapter 2 on Nagarjuna, in  particular, struck me as superb, though I also found lots to chew  on in the other chapters.  One would hope, however, that at some point the word &quot;Emptiness&quot; - as a translation of the original Sanskrit &quot;sunyata&quot; and its Chinese (_k'ung1_)and Japanese(_ku_) equivalents - is abandoned in favor of the word &quot;Openness,&quot; a word which seems to better capture the meaning of &quot;sunyata,&quot; and one that, because of its positive  connotations, would be far less open to misunderstanding by Western readers.  Think how much more meaningful, for example, the line &quot;rupam sunyata sunyataiva rupam&quot; of the Heart Sutra becomes,  a sutra which had a very big influence on Zen, if read as &quot;Form is Openness, Openness is Form.&quot;<br />All serious students of Zen will want to have this book.  They will find much more in it than many a more touted volume on Zen.  It will awaken them to new and unsuspected dimensions.	2001-06-02
US	50869571	R2ORCVHZXPAGSF	083480137X	452309025	A Zen Wave: Basho's Haiku & Zen	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Self-effacement as the path to authenticity.	A ZEN WAVE :  Basho's Haiku and Zen.  Translated by Robert Aitken. 192 pp.  New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1978 and Reissued.<br />All of us, perhaps, need a bit of help when starting to read haiku. As the shortest of all verse forms, with its mere seventeen syllables,  it doesn't look like much of a poem at all to the uninitiated, and  they may wonder what the fuss is all about.  <br />In 'A Zen Wave,' Robert Aitken, who is a noted American Zenist and competent in Japanese, has had the extremely useful idea of compiling  a small anthology of haiku by Basho (1644-1694), and providing each  haiku with its own full commentary.  After finishing the book, readers will have acquired a background in both haiku and Zen, and will be able to further explore haiku by themselves in an informed way.<br />In his brief 5-page Introduction Aitken writes:<br />&quot;... the heart of Basho's haiku is the very foundation of human perception of things - mind itself.  Operating superficially, the mind is random in its activity and stale in its insights and images. With practice and experience, however, it is recognized as the empty infinity of the universe and of the self&quot; (pages 18-19).<br />This statement may gain in meaning if we set it alongside an  observation made the great Zen Master Dogen (1200-1253), who wrote:<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad things to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (Tr., F. H. Cook, 'Sounds of Valley Streams,' page 66). <br />The haiku poet is a person who has 'emptied' himself or herself, who has created a space, an &quot;empty infinity&quot; or 'openness,' in which  the myriad things can come forward and declare themselves.  Haiku capture those moments, and the greatest haiku present us with &quot;the vital experience of the thing itself&quot; (Aitken, page 21).  Haiku, therefore, are not so much words about things; they aim rather to present us with  a true perception of the thing itself. <br />'A Zen Wave' presents us with a total of twenty-six of Basho's haiku.  For each of them we are given Aitken's translation, the romanized Japanese of the original, and its literal word-by-word translation.   Then follow a few words on THE FORM, which in turn are followed by Aitken's very full COMMENTARY.  These commentaries are enriched by the inclusion of many other poems, both Japanese and Chinese.  The book, which is illustrated with eight photographs, is rounded out with a Glossary of Selected Terms, a table of Japanese Equivalents of Chinese Names, and a short section of Notes giving details of sources.<br />Here, with my slash marks to indicate line breaks, is how Aitken has handled the first haiku, one of Basho's most famous:<br />&quot;The old pond; / A frog jumps in - / The sound of the water.<br />Furu ike ya / kawazu tobikomu / mizu no oto<br />Old pond! / frog jumps in / water of sound&quot; (page 25).<br />Simple though it may seem, we should note that Basho had  to work very hard to attain the state of 'openness' that we find in this poem.  It  was written when he was forty-two years old after many years of effort, and it marks his coming of age as a mature poet.  Aitken comments:  &quot;Basho presents his own mind as this timeless, endless pond, serene and  potent&quot; (page 26). <br />Ideally haiku should be like a gentle explosion in the mind.  Better still, they are the frog which plops into the pond of our mind, and sets up an ever-widening series of ripples, concentric circles which as they spread outwards to embrace more and more, end up by bringing the whole cosmos into view.  <br />What is the &quot;old pond&quot;?  Basho's mind and your mind certainly.  But what else?  Could it be the Unborn Buddha Mind which we all share?  And what about the frog?  Is it 'just a frog'?  Or is it something infinitely precious?  As for the &quot;sound&quot; - this too should be allowed to work on one's sensibility, for  it will suggest different things to different readers.  <br />There is much excellent commentary in this book, and  many other fine haiku.  A particular favorite of mine deals with a tiny plant, the  nazuna or Sheperd's Purse, which reads:<br />&quot;When I look carefully - / Nazuna is blooming / Beneath the hedge (page 74).<br />Five pages of Aitken's interesting comment follow the poem, which include a quotation from the famous Zen scholar, D. T. Suzuki, who wrote of the nazuna, a plant which many would dismiss as 'just a weed' :<br />&quot;We are blatantly given up to the demonstration of self-conceit, self-delusion, and unashamed arrogance.  We do not seem now to cherish any such feelings as inspired Basho to notice the flowering nazuna  plant. . . . (page 75).<br />Aitken feels that &quot;Basho is teaching us religion with his nazuna haiku,&quot; and how the denial of the nazuna is, as Suzuki points out, &quot;self-delusion&quot; (page 75), and I quite agree.  One of the more important things we have to learn from haiku is the importance of the ordinary - because, in fact, nothing is ordinary, and we should  learn to distrust the word 'just.'<br />For readers of Aitken's book whose appetite has been whetted, there are  many other books of haiku.  One particular work I can strongly recommend (if you can find it), and which Aitken himself regarded highly, is the 4-volume 'Haiku' by R. H. Blyth, volumes which like Aitken's are also bilingual, rich in commentary, and illustrated.  I can't resist ending with one of my favorites by another famous haiku poet, Buson (1715-1783), from Blyth Volume 4 'Autumn - Winter' (page 224):<br />&quot;The drizzling winter rain / Quietly soaks / The roots of the camphor tree.&quot;<br />Allow these words to quietly penetrate your sensibility, just as the  rain quietly soaks the roots of the camphor tree.<br />Are we wise to dismiss such events as being beneath our notice because merely 'ordinary'?  Or should we rather, like the haiku poets, get self out of the way and allow the myriad things to come forward and disclose themselves, and in authenticating themselves authenticate us?	2001-06-01
US	50869571	R31LG8UBZY8Q65	0802131840	109628591	Bankei Zen: Translations from the Record of Bankei	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Abiding in the Unborn Buddha Mind.	BANKEI ZEN : Translations from the Record of Bankei by Peter Haskel.  Edited by Yoshito Hakeda.  196 pp.  New York : Grove Press, 1984.<br />If Dogen Zenji (1200-1253) is Zen's supersonic jet, Bankei (1622-1693) is its horse-and-buggy.  But when it's simply a matter of getting from point A to point A, since what we are looking for is no further than the end of our nose, either type of conveyance will suffice.<br />Dogen transports us to the stratospheric heights of Zen.  His thought  is totally brilliant and hyper-sophisticated, and once you get a taste of him you may find yourself completely captivated.   Those who may be interested might care to take a look at Kazuaki Tanahashi's fine anthology, 'Moon in a Dewdrop : Writings of Zen Master Dogen.'<br />Bankei, in contrast, is a very different kettle of fish.  For him the sutras, the koans, and the works of the great Chinese Masters were so much waste paper we needn't be bothering our heads about. Very much a man of the people, and immensely popular in his day, his following, as Haskel tells us, &quot;embraced nearly every segment of Japanese society : samurai with their families and retainers, merchants, artisans, farmers, servants, even gamblers and gangsters, as well as monks and nuns of all the Buddhist sects&quot; (page xvii). All of them, in crowds that could number over a thousand, would flock from all parts of Japan to listen to his unusual teaching.<br />What was the teaching that held such a powerful appeal for so many different kinds of people?  Basically Bankei's Zen of the Unborn is simplicity itself, and can, as Haskel points out, be reduced to just three points: &quot;What we have from our parents innately is  the Unborn Buddha Mind and nothing else&quot;; &quot;The Buddha Mind is  Unborn and marvelously illuminating, and with the Unborn everything is perfectly managed&quot;; &quot;Abide in the Unborn Buddha Mind!&quot; (page xxxii).<br />Enlightenment, for Bankei, in other words, is not the prerogative of some sort of spiritual elite but is everyone's birthright.  We don't need to undergo some sort of extensive training or arduous discipline to realize it because it's always been there.  What gets in the way of the free and unobstructed flow of the Buddha Mind which we all possess is our selfishness, our habit of judging things as good or bad. All we need to do to return to our original nature is to LET GO NOW!<br />For the rest I'll have to refer you to Peter Haskel's fine Introduction to Bankei's life and thought, and to his selections from Bankei's  sermons, instructions, poems, and letters.  Haskel spent ten years working on this book, and he has succeeded brilliantly in bringing  maverick straight-talking Bankei, and his times and the people who flocked to hear him, vividly before us.  One can hear the authentic  tones of a loving and concerned and no-nonsense Bankei as he urges his flock to set aside all preconceptions and just let the marvelously illuminating Unborn Mind manage all things perfectly for them:<br />&quot;Everyone, do exactly as I'm telling you, and, following my  instructions, start by trying to abide in the Unborn for thirty days.  Learn to abide in the Unborn for thirty days, and from there on, even if you don't want to - whether you like it or not - you'll just naturally HAVE to abide in the Unborn.  You'll be a success at abiding in the Unborn!  Since that which is Unborn is the Buddha Mind, you'll be functioning with the Buddha Mind at all times.  That way you'll be  living buddhas here today, won't you?  So listen to my teaching just  as if today you were all born anew and starting afresh. . . .&quot;  (page 19, my caps for italics in original).<br />For the famous Zen scholar, D. T. Suzuki  - who himself compiled an early edition of Bankei -  Dogen, Hakuin, and Bankei were Japan's three greatest Zen Masters.  If you have never read Bankei, I can assure you that  you're in for a treat.  But read him in Haskel's translation as it's never been bettered.	2001-06-01
US	50869571	R37DVQIZFV8Q4Y	0834801264	397385082	One Robe, One Bowl: The Zen Poetry of Ryokan	Books	5	66	67	N	N	"Look around! There is nothing besides this."	ONE ROBE, ONE BOWL : The Zen Poetry of Ryokan, translated and introduced by John Stevens. 85 pp. New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1977 and reprinted.    If you have already read John Stevens 'Mountain Tasting : Zen Haiku by Santoka Taneda,' you will certainly want to read 'One Robe, One Bowl.' And if you haven't yet read Stevens translations of Santoka, you'll want to after reading the present work. Both are beautiful books, and it's a pity that more people don't seem to find their way to them.     John Stevens, who was born in Chicago, has lived in Japan since 1973. He is an ordained Soto Zen priest, has served as a member of the Buddhist Studies Department and as an akido instructor at Tohoku College in Sendai, and is competent in both Japanese and Chinese.    Stevens tells us in his brief, interesting, and informative Introduction that Ryokan's \\"verses are fresh and direct, without ornamentation or ostentation\\" (page 18), and that he has tried to reproduce this in his translations. He seems to me to have succeeded brilliantly. Of the approximately 1000 Chinese and 400 Japanese-style poems that Ryokan left, Stevens has given us wonderfully readable translations, in a spare and colloquial English, of 100 of the former and 103 of the latter. Once having read them, I don't think you'll ever forget them.    Ryokan (1758?-1831) is one of Japan's best-loved poets, and Stevens has managed to pack an awful lot about him into his brief 10-page Introduction. He tells us that Ryokan was born in the \\"snow country\\" of Echigo Province on the west coast of Japan. His family was fairly prosperous, the atmosphere in his home was literary and religious, and at the age of about nineteen, possibly as the result of some inner spiritual crisis, he decided to become a Buddhist monk and entered the local Zen temple, Kosho-ji.     It was at this time that he took the name 'Ryokan' - 'ryo' signifying good; 'kan' signifying generosity and largeheartedness. It would be difficult to think ofa more appropriate name than 'Good Heart' for the kind of person that Ryokan was, and it goes a great way towards explaining the great love the Japanese have for him. In him we find the heart of the mother - one who doesn't judge, one who understands, one who accepts and loves us as we are and for what we are - but in Ryokan's case one whose love extended to the whole universe and its myriad beings, whether human, animal, or plant, even the inanimate.     After twelve years of Zen training, Ryokan left Kosho-ji and began a series of pilgrimages that lasted five years. He then returned to his native village, found an abandoned hermitage nearby, and was to spend most of the rest of his life there, meditating, writing, and interacting with the world around him. Stevens writes:    \\"While his hermitage was deep in the mountains, he often visited the neighboring villages to play with the children , drink sake with the farmers, or visit his friends.... He respected everyone and bowed whenever he met anyone who labored, especially farmers. His love for children is proverbial among the Japanese. Often he spent the entire day playing with the childen or picking flowers, completely forgetting his begging for that day.... He was continually smiling....\\" (page 12).    The poems he wrote are largely concerned with events in his daily life, and can be read with enjoyment by anyone. Seemingly simple, they conceal real depths, depths that will be apparent to those familiar with Zen and with Buddhist ideas such as 'no-mind' and 'impermanence,' and with certain Buddhist symbols. But a knowledge of these is not really necessary to enjoy the poems, since Ryokan's main appeal is to our humanity, something we all share. Here is an example of one of the Chinese poems:    \\"Once again, the children and I are fighting a battle using spring grasses.  Now advancing, now retreating, each time with more refinement.   Twilight - everyone has returned home;   The bright, round moon helps me endurethe loneliness\\" (page 35).    Here is one of the Japanese poems:    \\"Awakened by the cold - a light snow falls;   the sound of wild geese.   They also are returning home with hardship and suffering\\" (page 59).    Sometimes it seems to me that much of modern literature is a literature of confusion. But what Ryokan has to offer is a literature of clarity.    Ryokan was fully human. He had established contact with reality. His love and compassion were infinite. In this he becomes a model for us all.	2001-06-01
US	50869571	R3HHY1X6740V1O	0850320526	447430275	The Water of Life: A Treatise on Urine Therapy	Books	5	194	194	N	N	A wise and wonderful book.	THE WATER OF LIFE : A Treatise on Urine Therapy by John W. Armstrong. Saffron Walden, Essex : The C. W. Daniel Co.Ltd., 2nd Edition 1971, Twelfth Impression, 1998.<br /><br />Since its first publication in 1945, 'The Water of Life' has achieved something of the status of a classic.  Having just finished reading it, I can understand why.  Armstrong, who was a British naturopath, was  a very modest man who never intended to write his book.  But after repeated requests, and after considering that he had a duty to his fellow men and women to reveal the details of the miraculous therapy he had discovered, he went ahead, and we should all be intensely thankful that he did.  The book is a goldmine of good sense,  practical advice, brief though fascinating case studies, and astute observations on a wide range of matters.<br /><br />His discovery - or perhaps rediscovery is a better word, since urine therapy was and is known and practised in many cultures and is even  known to the animals - came about in a curious way.  As a young man he suffered from consumption, had been passed through the hands of a whole slew of orthodox medical practitioners, none of whom had been able to cure him, and some of whom made his condition worse.<br /><br />But he seems to have been a religious man, and one day, while pondering Proverbs V.xv : \\"Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well,\\" he had a flash of inspiration which led him to link this passage with a few tales he'd heard about the curative properties of urine.  Could this reference to \\"waters,\\" he wondered,  be a reference to the body's own water - urine?  Having nothing to lose, he decided to give it a try.<br /><br />He began drinking his own urine, was restored to health, and went on to lead a vigorous and productive life  by helping to restore the health of many others, both human and animal.  Incidentally, one of the interesting features of his book, which indicates something of his kindly and unselfish nature, is that he has included a Chapter XVI 'Urine-Therapy on Animals.'<br /><br />In 'The Water of Life' he has provided details of the threefold  'urine fast' method he worked out, details which will be found enough  to go on by mature adults of average intelligence who have a bit of common sense.<br /><br />The most important point to understand, which he emphasizes throughout, is that one should try to avoid using or ingesting any substance other than urine and pure water - whether  chemicals, drugs, alcohol, denatured foods, etc., - when undergoing a urine fast or 'penance' as he liked to call it.<br /><br />The whole idea is to allow NATURE to take her course with as little interference from us as possible.  A fast of urine and pure water, plus frequent, lengthy, and thorough urine massages, and, if necessary, the application of urine compresses, would, he felt, cure pretty well anyone of almost anything  if undertaken long enough for the body to rid itself of toxins.<br /><br />Armstrong's 'The Water of Life' is a very rich book, crammed with fascinating and useful information, and interwoven with brief case histories of almost every conceivable ailment.  I couldnt even begin to do justice here to the wealth of ideas it contains.<br /><br />Four books on urine therapy are currently available : those of  Armstrong, Martha Christy, Coen van der Kroon, and Flora Peschek-Bohmer.  Of these, the Peschek-Bohmer may be ignored as being both superficial  and highly misleading on essential matters.  The remaining three all serve to complement each other in different ways, with one providing what the other lacks or hasn't gone into as fully.<br /><br />The serious practitioner would be unwise to overlook Armstrong. True, his is an early book and we know more about the actual constituents of urine and how it does its work today.  But he was a unique character, and in his own way he was a very wise man, and  I think he will always have a lot to teach us all.d unselfish nature, is that he has included a Chapter XVI 'Urine-Therapy on Animals.'<br /><br />In 'The Water of Life' he has provided details of the threefold  'urine fast' method he worked out, details which will be found enough  to go on by mature adults of average intelligence who have a bit of common sense.<br /><br />The most important point to understand, which he emphasizes throughout, is that one should try to avoid using or ingesting any substance other than urine and pure water - whether  chemicals, drugs, alcohol, denatured foods, etc., - when undergoing a urine fast or 'penance' as he liked to call it.<br /><br />The whole idea is to allow NATURE to take her course with as little interference from us as possible.  A fast of urine and pure water, plus frequent, lengthy, and thorough urine massages, and, if necessary, the application of urine compresses, would, he felt, cure pretty well anyone of almost anything  if undertaken long enough for the body to rid itself of toxins.<br /><br />Armstrong's 'The Water of Life' is a very rich book, crammed with fascinating and useful information, and interwoven with brief case histories of almost every conceivable ailment.  I couldnt even begin to do justice here to the wealth of ideas it contains.<br /><br />Four books on urine therapy are currently available : those of  Armstrong, Martha Christy, Coen van der Kroon, and Flora Peschek-Bohmer.  Of these, the Peschek-Bohmer may be ignored as being both superficial  and highly misleading on essential matters.  The remaining three all serve to complement each other in different ways, with one providing what the other lacks or hasn't gone into as fully.<br /><br />The serious practitioner would be unwise to overlook Armstrong. True, his is an early book and we know more about the actual constituents of urine and how it does its work today.  But he was a unique character, and in his own way he was a very wise man, and  I think he will always have a lot to teach us all.	2001-05-30
US	50869571	R1266BWJ5INGWZ	0916820076	313244827	How to Raise an Ox: Zen Practice as Taught in Zen Master Dogen's Shobogenzo	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Dogen's inexhaustible spring of wisdom.	HOW TO RAISE AN OX : Zen Practice as Taught in Zen Master Dogen's Shobogenzo - Including Ten Newly Translated Essays by Francis Dojun Cook.  Foreword by Taizan Maezumi Roshi.  216 pp.  Los Angeles, California : Center Publications, 1978 and Reprinted.<br />It would be difficult to overestimate the importance of  Dogen (1200-1253).  As one of the most powerful and brilliant minds Asia has produced - and it has produced many - his many-levelled and multi-faceted works should be viewed, not so much as a purely local and Japanese phenomenon, but as a supreme contribution to world literature.  For all of us, he is, as Taizan Maezumi Roshi says,  an inexhaustible spring of wisdom.<br />Dogen's works are profound.  They express the  point-of-view of an enlightened Master.  Such works, especially when written in a sinograph-based language such as Japanese or  Chinese, present almost insuperable problems of interpretation, and  there are very few scholars who are equal to the task of translating them.<br />Dr Francis Cook comes to this task well-prepared.  His work is highly respected in scholarly circles, he has held faculty posts at Dartmouth College and the University of California at Riverside, where he was an associate professor in the Religious Studies program, and he has a  number of impressive publications to his credit.<br />In addition, he has a masterful command of the Japanese language, a command enhanced by two years spent as a Fulbright Fellow at Kyoto University.  He has also devotedly practiced Zen meditation for many  years.  This last is extremely important as enabling Dr Cook to rise above the intellectualizing and speculation which limits so much contemporary Zen scholarship.<br />As he himself explains, the translator must be able to &quot;approach the  text in the light of his own Zen practice....  because unless the translator has some insight, however small, into what Dogen Zenji is saying, he will miss much in the text and the translation will suffer&quot; (page 89).  This is a simple point, but it is often overlooked, not only by translators, but also by a certain type of reader.<br />The present book falls fairly equally into two parts.  The first 99 pages give us Dr Cook's introductory material in seven chapters: Introduction; The Importance of Faith; Arousing the Thought of Enlightenment; The Problem of Karma; The Scriptures; Giving Life to  Our Lives; Concerning the Translation.<br />99 pages of 'introduction' may seem a lot, but Dr Cook has such a clear mind, and such an enviably clear and simple prose style, that anyone  who is at all serious about trying to understand Dogen will find these  pages extremely interesting.  Here is an example, picked out at random, of Dr Cook's style:<br />&quot;Dogen Zenji himself was not an ordinary man....  He addresses the reader from a level of spiritual insight that is greatly superior to  ours, and the reader's challenge is to try to comprehend Dogen's vision of reality from the vantage point of his remarkable achievement. He is very difficult to follow because he sees a reality we do not  even vaguely imagine&quot; (page 88).<br />The remaining half of the book is taken up with Dr Cook's translations of ten chapters on practice from the Shobogenzo:<br />FUKANZAZENGI &quot;General Recommendations for Doing Zazen;&quot;  KEISEI SANSHOKU &quot;The Sounds of the Valley Streams, the Forms of the Mountains;&quot; HOTSU MUJO SHIN &quot;Arousing the Supreme Thought;&quot;  SHUKKE  &quot;Home Departure;&quot;  RAIHAI TOKUZUI &quot;Paying Homage and Acquiring the Essence;&quot; SHUNJU  &quot;Spring and Fall;&quot;  SHINJIN INGA  &quot;Deep Faith in Cause and  Effect;&quot; NYORAI ZENSHIN  &quot;The Tathagata's Whole Body;&quot;  GYOJI &quot;Continuous Practice;&quot;  KAJO  &quot;Everyday Life.&quot;  <br />Each of these chapters has been given brief but helpful Notes, and the book is rounded out with four Genealogy Charts of Chinese Zen Masters to enable the reader to locatein time the various individuals mentioned in the  essays.<br />Here are a few lines from Cook's reading of the FUKANZAZENGI: <br />&quot;... you must suspend your attempts to understand by means of scrutinizing words, reverse the activity of the mind which seeks externally, and illuminate your own true nature&quot; (page 96).<br />What we are seeking, in other words, is not 'out there,' and one can only go astray by seeking it 'out there.'  Here is the source of the West's fundamental error, an error which has generated the massive confusion around us, a confusion which is not going to go away until we start taking Dogen seriously.<br />Though it will probably be a long time before the West has humility enough to acknowledge that Zen Master Dogen belongs right up there along with such luminaries as Plato and Augustine, it's heartening  to see that many Dogen translations have now begun to appear.  These translations range all the way from the sincere and highly competent, through to the probably equally sincere but somewhat less competent.<br />Since very few, even among Japanese, understand Medieval Japanese, I'm not in a position to say whether Dr Cook's translation is  'excellent,' though it reads very well and I strongly suspect that it is.  He's certainly put in the leg work to qualify as a highly competent translator, and anyone who may be looking for a good edition of Dogen could do worse than select his.	2001-05-30
US	50869571	R1XBFFDE4HR15R	088706924X	501509866	Sounds of Valley Streams: Enlightenment in Dogen's Zen Translation of Nine Essays From Shobogenzo	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Tremendous ideas, beautifully expressed!	SOUNDS OF VALLEY STREAMS : Enlightenment in Dogen's Zen - Translation of Nine Essays from Shobogenzo by Francis H. Cook.  164 pp  Albany:  State University of New York Press, 1989 and Reprinted.<br />It would be difficult to overestimate the importance of  Dogen (1200-1253).  As one of the most powerful and brilliant minds Asia has produced - and it has produced many - his many-levelled and multi-faceted works should be viewed, not so much as a purely local and Japanese phenomenon, but as a supreme contribution to world literature.  For all of us, he is, as Taizan Maezumi Roshi says,  an inexhaustible spring of wisdom.<br />Dogen's works are profound.  They express the  point-of-view of an enlightened Master.  Such works, especially when written in a sinograph-based language such as Japanese or  Chinese, present almost insuperable problems of interpretation, and  there are very few scholars who are equal to the task of translating them.<br />Dr Francis Cook comes to this task well-prepared.  His work is highly respected in scholarly circles, he has held faculty posts at Dartmouth College and the University of California at Riverside, where he was an associate professor in the Religious Studies program, and he has a  number of impressive publications to his credit.<br />In addition, he has a masterful command of the Japanese language, a command enhanced by two years spent as a Fulbright Fellow at Kyoto University.  He has also devotedly practiced Zen meditation for many  years.  This last is extremely important as enabling Dr Cook to rise above the intellectualizing and speculation which limits so much contemporary Zen scholarship.<br />As he himself explained in his 'How to Raise an Ox,' the translator  must be able to &quot;approach the  text in the light of his own Zen practice....  because unless the translator has some insight, however small, into what Dogen Zenji is saying, he will miss much in the text and the translation will suffer&quot; (page 89).  This isa simple point, but it is often overlooked, not only by translators, but also by a certain type of reader.<br />Whereas Dr Cook's earlier 'How To Raise an Ox' gave us ten of Dogen's essays on Zen practice, the present book, logically enough, now goes on to give us nine essays on Enlightenment.  As in his previous book, the translations are preceded by four of his own well-written and informative introductory essays on Dogen: 'Being Awakened;' 'The Buddha Right Before Us;' 'The Enlightened Life;' 'A Few Words on  Genjo Koan.'  <br />Students might want to supplement these by also reading Dr Cook's 'Dogen's View of Authentic Selfhood and its Socio-ethical Implications' (in DOGEN STUDIES, edited by William R. LaFleur, pp. 131-149).  <br />Besides having a very clear mind, Dr Cook has such an  enviably clear and simple prose style that anyone who is at all  serious about trying to understand Dogen should find all of these  essays interesting.  Here is an example of his style, picked at random from 'A Few Words on Genjo Koan' :<br />&quot;The emptiness of things does not mean that they are nonexistent or nothing, but rather that they are 'boundless' in containing infinite meanings, qualities, and values....  To say that a certain person is &quot;bad&quot; is to impose the selfhood of badness on the vastly open and  fluid configuration we confront and consequently to misconstrue its reality.  The emptiness of things does not deny or negate, diminish or limit, and certainly does not impoverish; it opens and expands things infinitely&quot; (page 58).<br />Yes indeed.  For, as the Heart Sutra says: Form is Openness!  Openness is Form!<br />The nine translated Dogen essays, some of which are among his most famous, are as follows :<br />GENJO KOAN  Manifesting Absolute Reality;  IKKA MYOJU  One Bright    Pearl;  GABYO  A Painting of a Rice Cake;  GANZEI  Eye-Pupil; KANNON;  RYUGIN  Dragon Song;  DOTOKU  Expression;  BUKKOJO-JI Beyond Buddha; DAIGO  Great Awakening.  The book is rounded out with a 27-page section of Notes, a Bibliography of both Japanese and Western sources, and an 8-page Index.  <br />Here are a few lines from Dr Cook's translation of GENJO KOAN :<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad things to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (page 66).<br />A tremendously important idea, beautifully expressed!<br />Though it will probably be a long time before the West has humility enough to acknowledge that Zen Master Dogen belongs right up there along with such Western luminaries as Plato and Hegel, it's heartening  to see that many Dogen translations have now begun to appear.  These translations range all the way from the sincere and highly competent, through to the probably equally sincere but somewhat less competent.<br />Since very few, even among Japanese, understand Medieval Japanese, I'm not in a position to say whether Dr Cook's translation is  'excellent,' though it reads very well and I strongly suspect that it is.  He's certainly put in the leg work to qualify as a highly competent translator, and anyone who may be looking for a good edition of Dogen could do worse than select his.	2001-05-30
US	50869571	R11CIHCD9R28P5	0834801515	194458939	Mountain Tasting : Zen Haiku by Santoka Taneda	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A Golden Book!	MOUNTAIN TASTING : ZEN HAIKU BY SANTOKA TANEDA.  Translated by John Stevens.  126 pp.  New York and Tokyo : Weatherhill, 1980 and Reprinted.<br />Santoka's life may seem tragic.  Son of a womanizing father who lost the  family property through an unwise business venture; a mother who committed suicide by throwing herself into a well when he was eight;  himself a university dropout; failed jobs; alcoholism; a failed marriage; a series of nervous breakdowns; a suicide attempt which failed when the train was just able to stop in time.  How could such a man have become one of Japan's best-loved poets?  And what, we wonder, could we  ourselves possibly have to learn from him?  The answer to this last,  in a word, is everything.<br />Santoka was pulled from the tracks and taken to a nearby Zen temple. The head priest, Gian Mochizuki Osho, a shrewd and kindly man, simply took him in without any reprimands or questions, and offered to let him stay as long as he liked.  Santoka had always been interested in Buddhism, and after one year of Zen meditation, chanting sutras, and working around the temple, at the age of forty-two he was ordained a  Zen priest.  The Zen he was ultimately to practice, however, though traditional, was unusual.  It was the Zen of solitary walking.  The open road was to become his home and his monastery.<br />John Stevens has provided a truly interesting and moving account of Santoka's life and work which will fill you in on the details.  Suffice to say here that Santoka's first walking pilgrimage through Japan, begging as he went from village to village, began in April 1926 and was to last for four years.  During this trip to Shikoku, he visited the 88 shrines and temples associated with the Buddhist saint Kukai (774-835) to pray for the troubled spirit of his departed mother. <br />There is a wonderful photograph of Santoka on page 30, which shows him setting out on a similar pilgrimage in 1933.  With his straw sandals,  white cotton pants, long robe, monk's staff, and large woven straw hat, he looks an odd, if not laughable, figure.  Few would suspect they were looking at a person of incredible courage, someone who had undertaken  the most fearsome and difficult task of all, the full acceptance and savoring of the moment, despite what it may bring.<br />All told, Santoka is said to have walked more than twenty-eight thousand miles, starting out each morning penniless and with no food, and not knowing where he would stay or even if he would find lodging for the night.  These were very hard miles, miles which brought sun and rain, generosity and hostility, food and hunger, smiles and scowls, health  and illness, thirst and pure water, loneliness and moments of companionship, grief and intense happiness, but moments always lived  with the thought that everything should be welcomed, whether good or  bad, just as he himself was not judged but welcomed and taken in by the kindly Gian.<br />The record of his various thoughts, feelings, perceptions, and of the myriad sights and sounds he encountered on his walks of self-discovery, will be found in his poems.  The poems are characterized by an absolute simplicity, an absolute honesty, a total absence of artifice.  In a  world such as ours, brimming over as it is with lies, disinformation, propaganda, and the totally phony, Santoka's spontaneous utterances  come to us like a pure, cool, and refreshing breath of air.  He is  even, as Stevens points out, honest about his failure to solve what  for him was the ultimate Koan - sake.<br />After his very fine 29-page Introduction, Stevens has given us 372 of Santoka's free-style haiku in excellent translations.  Since the poems are linguistically very simple, their literal meaning carries over easily into English.  What is lost, however, as Stevens points out, is the beautiful rhythm, assonance, and onomatopoeia of many of the poems, and to offset this he has thoughtfully provided, at the bottom of each page, the romanized Japanese of the originals, a few of which are accompanied by his notes.  He has also provided a useful Selected Bibliography of both Japanese and English sources at the end of the book.<br />Here, to give you a taste of Santoka, is Poem 18 as translated and annotated by Stevens (with my indication of pronunciation added).  A halftone of Santoka's striking brush calligraphy of this poem has been used as frontispiece to the book:<br />&quot;Going deeper / And still deeper - /  The green mountains.  <br />Wake itte mo wake itte mo aoi yama [wa-ke it-te mo wa-ke it-te mo a-o-i ya-ma].  This was written in early summer in the mountains of Kumamoto Prefecture and is perhaps Santoka's best-known poem.  Deeper  and deeper into the human heart without being able to fathom its  depth. . . .&quot; (page 37).<br />The human heart, yes, but also self, nature, time, reality, the mystery of existence, and, ultimately, the world of Buddha, or, for others, God.<br />Santoka's great merit is that he returns us to a reality that is also ours, though most of the time we choose to overlook it.  I can't even begin to do justice to him here - he's just too big.  But what can be  said is that there is a depth and resonance to his poems that will evoke a powerful response in all sensitive readers.  His love of the  simple things in life, of nature, and of all life-forms and living creatures, is infectious.<br />'Mountain Tasting' is a golden book that would make a wonderful  gift for someone very special to you, but you'd better not start  reading it - or you won't want to part with it!	2001-05-29
US	50869571	R1DNPOMFFCSPS5	0892817992	265240767	Urine Therapy: Nature's Elixir for Good Health	Books	3	207	220	N	Y	Superficial and misleading, but some good practical tips.	URINE THERAPY : NATURE'S ELIXIR FOR GOOD HEALTH by Flora Peschek-Bohmer, Ph.D., and Gisela Schreiber.  Translated from the German by Hans-Georg Bakker.  152 pp.  Rochester, Vermont : Healing Arts Press, 1999.<br />After having read Martha Christy and Coen van der Kroon on Urine  Therapy, I had high hopes for the present book but must confess myself disappointed.  Whereas the former two writers address themselves to mature adults of average intelligence, Peschek-Bohmer's book seems intended for readers of a mental age of about ten or twelve, or infantile adults who are unamenable to reason and who need to be  taken by the hand and jollied along at every step.<br />Her very short book, which can be read in an hour or two, breaks down into two parts.  The first 50 pages are taken up with rather superficial introductory material in which the reader is given a wholly false idea of the kidneys, and in which absolutely NOTHING is said about the remarkable constituents of urine - its many  hormones, vitamins, enzymes, minerals, proteins, etc., - although she finally does get around to mentioning Melatonin (a powerful natural tranquillizer) on page 147.  The book also seems to me to be highly misleading on other essential matters.<br />Not only that, but throughout the book there are constant reminders of the need to consult a &quot;medical professional&quot; of one sort or another, when the whole aim of Urine Therapy is to free us from our dependence upon such people, most of whom have a proven track record of failure.<br />The remaining 100 pages of the book, 'Treatment and Applications,'  are taken up with basic practical advice as to how we can use urine to help alleviate or cure a whole range of ailments, though in many cases, once again, not without the 'help' of those benevolent and concerned &quot;medical professionals&quot; who,  as we know, have managed to make the curative properties of urine the best-kept secret in medical history.<br />Although there is a certain amount of very good advice in 'Treatment  and Applications,' the hundred or so ailments have been classified in such a way - e.g., under 'Arms/Hands, Legs/Feet, Skin, Body,' etc., -  as to sometimes make a specific ailment difficult to locate.  I finally discovered Arthritis listed as Arthrosis under Arms/Hands on page 80.  This problem could have easily been remedied by the inclusion of a simple index, but unfortunately the book lacks an index.<br />There are currently three other books available on Urine Therapy : Martha Christy's 'Your Own Perfect Medicine,' Coen van der Kroon's 'The Golden Fountain,' and John W. Armstrong's classic study 'The Water of Life.'  I can heartily recommend any of these to mature and open-minded readers who have a bit of common sense, and who can  grasp the idea that the body knows how to care for itself.<br />Others, who may need their hand holding, and whose fixed ideas about urine are so rigid that they need to be coaxed and jollied along, may find the Peschek-Bohmer a useful guide, but they will be left puzzled as to why urine works.  A whole dimension of Urine Therapy has been totally ignored, one beautifully covered, for example, by van der Kroon, but I suppose we must be grateful for any book, no  matter how superficial and misleading, which is basically positive  and sets out to teach us at least something about this miraculous therapy.ain amount of very good advice in 'Treatment  and Applications,' the hundred or so ailments have been classified in such a way - e.g., under 'Arms/Hands, Legs/Feet, Skin, Body,' etc., -  as to sometimes make a specific ailment difficult to locate.  I finally discovered Arthritis listed as Arthrosis under Arms/Hands on page 80.  This problem could have easily been remedied by the inclusion of a simple index, but unfortunately the book lacks an index.<br />There are currently three other books available on Urine Therapy : Martha Christy's 'Your Own Perfect Medicine,' Coen van der Kroon's 'The Golden Fountain,' and John W. Armstrong's classic study 'The Water of Life.'  I can heartily recommend any of these to mature and open-minded readers who have a bit of common sense, and who can  grasp the idea that the body knows how to care for itself.  <br />Others, who may need their hand holding, and whose fixed ideas about urine are so rigid that they need to be coaxed and jollied along, may find the Peschek-Bohmer a useful guide, but they will be left puzzled as to why urine works.  A whole dimension of Urine Therapy has been totally ignored, one beautifully covered, for example, by van der Kroon, but I suppose we must be grateful for any book, no  matter how superficial and misleading, which is basically positive  and sets out to teach us at least something about this miraculous therapy.	2001-05-29
US	50869571	R25LCBHOGELEE9	0963209116	157365715	Your Own Perfect Medicine: The Incredible Proven Natural Miracle Cure that Medical Science Has Never Revealed!	Books	5	251	258	N	N	Silencing that screaming &quot;YUCK!&quot;	All of us have fixed ideas floating around in our heads. We learned them from our parents and teachers, we picked them up from friends, acquaintances, TV, newspapers, magazines, books, movies, and so on, and they all have one thing in common: we never pause to examine them. Our usual response when such ideas crop up is to say: &quot;Everybody knows that.&quot;<br />One of the most deep-seated and strongly entrenched ideas of all is the widespread notion that urine is a dirty and disgusting substance. &quot;Everbody knows that urine is a dirty waste product,&quot; we say. We can't, of course, be blamed for thinking like this because pretty well everyone thinks the same. And our natural tendency is to automatically reject any view that conflicts with what &quot;Everbody knows.&quot;<br />Most of us, for example, would probably dismiss as crazy someone who came along and said: &quot;No. Your urine is not nasty stuff. In fact it's a precious and nourishing life-enhancing substance and quite pure, and it could be doing all kinds of good things for your mind and body if you knew how to use it wisely.&quot;<br />Until very recently I used to think that urine was nasty stuff too, that is until I read Martha Christy. Maybe I'm foolish but when an articulate, serious, responsible, concerned, mature and obviously intelligent person tells me something new or different, no matter how crazy it may seem, I'm inclined to listen to what they have to say and to give them the benefit of the doubt, particularly if there's some way I can test what they are saying and find out the truth for myself.<br />If you think about it, only two kinds of people are really qualified to tell us about urine. One is the biochemist who sits down in her lab, analyzes it, and then tells us about its constituents. The other is the therapist or practitioner who uses urine, and who can tell us about its properties or powers. And so far as biochemists are concerned, urine is sterile, harmless, and full of good things.<br />As for what Martha Christy and other Urine Therapists are telling us about the properties of urine, there are two ways of testing their truth: by either drinking urine or applying it externally. The idea of drinking urine seemed especially revolting to me, as it will to most, but after thinking it over for a few days I firmed myself up, blocked out the part of my mind that was screaming - &quot;YUCK!&quot; - and I did it! <br />If you top up half a glass of urine with water, hold your breath, and then chug-a-lug, it goes down easily enough. It's a bit like green tea. There's little taste, and only a mildly unpleasant aftertaste which you quickly get used to. And you'll soon find that you can dispense with the water. <br />But guess what? It actually worked! Within a few days two serious chronic illnesses that have plagued me for many years began to improve. And that's not all. Almost immediately I began to feel better in every way. I had much more energy, a clearer head, more positive moods, easy bowel movements, was enjoying better sleep, became much more cheerful and so on. Yes!<br />So, folks, if you want to greatly improve the quality of your life, I'd suggest that you silence that screaming &quot;YUCK!&quot; in your head. It's only the product of a fixed idea after all, one of the many ideas you've never bothered to seriously examine. Trash it, and give Martha Christy's advice a chance. Whether you are healthy or ill, your own perfect heaven-sent tonic and medicine may just end up working wonders for you, as it has for me. In fact, I'm pretty sure it will.<br />I think that Martha Christy deserves a toast!<br />Kampai!	2001-05-29
US	50869571	R3NBZYCGSWP8EZ	0824810112	471148525	Dogen Studies (Studies in East Asian Buddhism, No 2)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Will interest all serious students of Dogen.	DOGEN STUDIES.  Edited by William R. LaFleur.  Kuroda Institute : Studies in East Asian Buddhism No.2.  165 pp. Honolulu : University of Hawaii Press, 1992.<br />Most collections of academic critical articles tend to follow a similar pattern.  Among the dozen or so pieces comprising the collection, one or two will invariably prove to be of exceptional merit and interest, with the remainder, in contrast, looking like humdrum and uninspired filler.  Perhaps, given the greatly varying abilities of human beings, this is inevitable.  There are Scholars and scholars, and one can't go about smashing rice bowls.<br />Happily, the present collection of 'Dogen Studies' is that rare exception in which, not just one or two, but all of the contributions, although not perhaps of equal brilliance, are certainly  interesting.  I don't know whether this is because Dogen is himself  such an interesting and multi-faceted thinker, or whether it's because he attracts a more interesting kind of mind, but I can assure readers  that all of the pieces in the present collection are well worth  reading by anyone with a serious interest in Dogen.<br />The collection is made up of the following eight articles : 'Design in  the Academy' by William R. LaFleur ; 'Recarving the Dragon : History and Dogma in the Study of Dogen' by Carl Bielefeldt ; '&quot;The Reason of Words and Letters&quot; : Dogen and Koan Language' by Hee-Jin Kim ; 'The Incomparable Philosopher : Dogen on How to Read the Shobogenzo' by Thomas P. Kasulis ; 'The Oneness of Practice and Attainment : Implications for the Relation between Means and Ends' by Masao Abe ; 'The Practice of Body-Mind : Dogen's Shinjingakudo and Comparative Philosophy' by John C. Maraldo ; 'Dogen's View of Authentic Selfhood and its Socio-ethical Implications' by Francis H. Cook ; 'The Meaning of Dogen Today' by Robert N. Bellah.  <br />The book is rounded out with a detailed List of Contributors, their affiliations, backgrounds, and main publications, anda 5-page bilingual Glossary of Chinese and Japanese Terms (with sinographs).  Among the contributors are some outstanding Dogen scholars whose names will already be familiar to students of Dogen.<br />'Dogen Studies' is a carefully conceived and well-balanced collection, and seems to have been designed to show us something of the range of possible approaches to Dogen.  Everyone will have a favorite, my own being Francis Cook's piece, an article which seems to me to be  the finest and most interesting treatment of 'enlightenment' that I've ever seen.  But, as I've indicated, I enjoyed all of the others too. <br />As an added bonus, the many translated excerpts from Dogen that are scattered throughout the book are of uniformly high quality.  Here are some particularly fine lines from the 'Shobogenzo Genjo-koan' as rendered  by Francis H. Cook:<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad beings to authenticate them is delusion; / The myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (page 133). <br />'Dogen Studies' is a book that I'm pleased to be able to recommend, as I feel sure that all serious students of Dogen will find it of real interest.	2001-05-29
US	50869571	R2BFFKPVZIES4Y	0231031475	786613395	The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu	Books	5	58	61	N	N	A gem for the enthusiast's collection.	THE COMPLETE WORKS OF CHUANG TZU.  Translated by Burton Watson.  397 pp. New York and London: Columbia University Press, 1968 and reprinted.<br />Anyone who may be coming to Chuang Tzu for the first time is in for a treat. Although Chuang Tzu is sometimes described as the most brilliant of all Chinese philosophers, what we find in him isn't what we normally understand by 'Philosophy' and isn't technical at all. <br />His appeal is not so much to the intellect as to the imagination, and he chose as a vehicle for his philosophical insights, not tedious and lengthy abstract treatises, but brief and witty anecdotes and dialogues and tales. His humor, sophistication, literary genius, and philosophical insights found their perfect expression in his brilliant fragments, and once having read them you never forget them.<br />Not much is known about Chuang Tzu, other than that he seems to have lived around the time of King Hui of Liang (370-319 B.C.). The received text of his book, which is sometimes referred to as 'the Chuang Tzu' (CT), is made up of thirty-three Chapters. Most scholars seem to feel that the CT is a composite text, and that only the first seven - the Inner Chapters - plus a few bits from the others are Chuang Tzu's own work, the remainder being by his followers.<br />Among the better known of his translators, all of them excellent, are Arthur Waley, Lin Yutang, A. C. Graham, and Burton Watson, though only the latter two translated the complete text. An abridged version of Watson's complete translation was later made available for those who only want to read the Inner Chapters. <br />The present book, 'The Complete Works of Chuang Tzu,' was first published in 1968. After an interesting 28-page Introduction, which includes bibliographical information, Burton Watson's very fine translations follow, all of which have been set out as prose and lightly annotated. The book is rounded out with an Index. <br />Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a brilliant translator. His many translations from Ancient Chinese Literature are of uniformly high quality, and are well worth collecting as they are books one often returns to. Enthusiasts will certainly want to add the present gem to their collection.	2001-05-28
US	50869571	R189HOIO2AJ2M	0824803574	168235545	A Primer of Soto Zen: A Translation of Dogen's Shobogenzo Zuimonki (East West Center Book)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Rambling the plains and foothills of Dogen's thought.	A PRIMER OF SOTO ZEN - A translation of Dogen's Shobogenzo Zuimonki by Reiho Masunaga.  119 pp.  Honolulu: University Press of Hawaii, 1971 and reprinted.<br />Eihei Dogen (+ 1200-1253), who was an exceptionally gifted child, was born into an aristocratic household in Kyoto.  The death of his mother  when he was eight years old so impressed upon him the central Buddhist truth of impermanency, that he forsook his aristocratic privileges when he was thirteen and went to Mt. Hiei to study to become a Buddhist monk.  <br />But after intensive study, and since no-one in Japan could  satisfactorily answer his questions - not surprising when you consider that he was the greatest genius Japan has ever produced -  he sailed to China in 1223 in search of someone who could.  There he studied under the Soto Ch'an (Zen) Master Ju-ching (+ 1163-1228), attained enlightenment, and returned to Japan to become the founder of Japanese Soto Zen.<br />Zen first became known to the West largely through the writings of D. T. Suzuki, who was a follower of the 'Sudden' or direct koan-using Rinzai Zen.  Soto Zen, in contrast, is a gentler method which places greater reliance on Zazen or deep meditation, and is the method that has gained the largest number of adherents in Japan.<br />The present small book of just 119 pages is exactly what it says - a 'Primer of Soto Zen' - and as such, as Masunaga explains, it &quot;does not concern itself with any great philosophical subtleties.&quot;  Instead what we find is a collection, recorded by his disciple Ejo, of brief talks, remarks, comments, and exhortations, addressed by Dogen largely to Zen beginners and lay followers, which offers &quot;an insight into the type of Buddhism Dogen sought to propagate&quot; (page 2) - in other words, an ideal book for ordinary folks like most of us.<br />Here, to give you a taste, are a few lines selected at random:  <br />&quot;Nothing can be gained by extensive study and wide reading.  Give them up immediately&quot; (page 8).  <br />&quot;Every man possesses the Buddha-nature.  Do not demean yourselves&quot;  (page 19).<br />&quot;To enter the Buddha Way is to stop discriminating between good and evil and to cast aside the mind that says this is good and that is bad&quot; (page 29).<br />&quot;To escape from the world means that one's mind is not concerned with the opinions of the world&quot; (37).<br />&quot;One must be deeply aware of the impermanence of the world&quot; (page 38).<br />&quot;When the Buddhas ... state that the mind is plants and trees, revise your preconceptions and understand plants and trees as mind&quot; (page 66).<br />My own copy of this book was purchased many years ago, and is now pretty dog-eared.  It's one of those old friends I like to return to.  Since it's mainly addressed to beginners it doesn't, as I've indicated,  give the full scope of Dogen's thought.  With the 'Zuimonki' - which means 'easy for the ears to understand' - we are rambling  the plains and foothills of Dogen's thought.  But any sensitive reader  will find much to interest them here, and the book is an excellent introduction to Dogen the man and to his more advanced thought.<br />To discover just how profound Dogen can be, you will have to turn to  the 'Shobogenzo' proper.  This has been translated, in whole or in part, a number of times, but an edition I can strongly recommend is Kazuaki Tanahashi's 'Moon in a Dewdrop - Writings of Zen Master Dogen.' <br />Besides twenty texts from the 'Shobogenzo,' this book includes four additional texts and a selection of Dogen's poems.  It also contains a fine Introduction on Dogen's Life and Teachings, four Appendices, full Notes, a Selected Bibliography, an incredibly full and detailed bilingual Glossary of a kind one won't find elsewhere, and some interesting illustrations.  <br />Dogen's Japanese is an excruciatingly difficult Japanese, so much so that some think it should be called 'Dogen-ese' and not Japanese.  Think 'Finnegans Wake' and you'll get an inkling of the problems involved in translating him.  The language and thought of  the 'Shobogenzo' comes to us from such a height that there can be no  such thing as a definitive interpretation, and hence no such thing  as a definitive translation.<br />'Moon in a Dewdrop' is the result of a collaborative effort by a team  of highly competent American Zenists, some of them very well known.   It has always seemed, in my humble opinion, that, considering the difficulties, they did a very fine job.  If you enjoy the 'Zuimonki,' I'm  sure you'll be bowled over by 'Moon in a Dewdrop.'  Dogen leaves most other thinkers behind in the dust.	2001-05-28
US	50869571	R2Y3JFE2KA4M6	0824814010	299201794	Shobogenzo.:Zen Essays by Dogen	Books	4	53	56	N	N	Dogen leaves most other thinkers behind in the dust.	Thomas Cleary, the well-known translator of Oriental texts, has been performing a valuable service for many years by placing                      before the Western reader many interesting texts, some of which might otherwise never have been translated. His translations, though they                      may serve the uncritical reader well enough for ordinary purposes, ought wherever possible to be supplemented by alternate translations                      as they cannot be relied upon for scholarly purposes. Cleary's work tends to be uneven, with some of his books being much better than                      others.<br />Dogen's Japanese is highly idiosyncratic and extremely difficult, so much so that some Japanese will claim that his language can't be considered Japanese at all.  Think 'Finnegans Wake' and you will appreciate their perplexity.  Given the difficulty of Dogen's language, and the profundity of his thought, it would seem to follow that only a lengthy immersion in, and deep pondering of, his text could result in an 'excellent' translation.<br />If you run an Amazon search for 'Thomas Cleary,' it will produce over 140 items.  Now then, I could be wrong, but given the sheer massiveness of Cleary's output, one suspects a preference for quantity over quality, particularly if one considers that just one of these items is  the incredibly long 1643-page 'Flower Ornament Scripture,' a translation that could have taken a 'lesser' man ten or more years.  <br />I know that there are some good things in Cleary's edition, because I used to have the book.  But before deciding, readers might care to look at the Dogen translations of Francis H. Cook - 'How to Raise an Ox' and 'Sounds of Valley Streams.'  Cook's output, numerically, is nowhere near as impressive as that of Cleary, but in addition to being a Zen adept his scholarship is impeccable, and some readers may find his readings more to their taste.  <br />Personally, I think it would be very hard to better Cook's translation of the 'Shobogenzo genjokoan,' of which the following is a brief extract:<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriad beings to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; [Sounds of Valley Streams, page 66]. <br />But whether you plump for Cleary, or Cook, or other translators such as Kazuaki Tanahashi or Gudo Nishijima, you  should certainly get hold of somebody's reading of Dogen.  You'll be impressed.  He leaves most other thinkers behind in the dust.	2001-05-28
US	50869571	RETJNJD4548VO	086547186X	691104267	Moon In a Dewdrop: Writings of Zen Master Dogen	Books	5	157	166	N	N	Tackling the Mountain Ranges of Dogen's Mind.	'MOON IN A DEWDROP - WRITNGS OF ZEN MASTER DOGEN,' edited by Kazuaki Tanahashi.  Translated by Robert Aitken, Philip Whalen, et al.  356 pp.  San Francisco: North Point Press, 1985 and reprinted.  <br />Eihei Dogen (1200-1253), who was an exceptionally gifted child, was  born into an aristocratic household in Kyoto.  The death of his mother  when he was eight years old so impressed upon him the central Buddhist truth of impermanency, that he forsook his aristocratic privileges when he was thirteen and went to Mt. Hiei to study to become a Buddhist monk.  <br />But since no-one in Japan  could satisfactorily answer his questions - not surprising when you consider that he was the greatest genius Japan has ever produced -  he went off to China in 1223 in search of a Master.  There he studied under the Soto Ch'an (Zen) Master Ju-ching (1163-1228), attained enlightenment, and returned to Japan to become the founder Japanese Soto Zen.<br />Zen first became known to the West largely through the writings of D. T. Suzuki, who was a follower of the 'Sudden Enlightenment' or direct koan-using Rinzai Zen.  Soto Zen, in contrast, is a gentler method which places greater reliance on Zazen or deep meditation, and is the method that has gained the largest number of adherents in Japan.<br />To discover just how profound Dogen was, you will have to turn to his magnum opus, the 'Shobogenzo' or 'Treasury of the True Dharma Eye.'   This has been translated, in whole or in part, a number of times, but  an edition I can heartily recommend is the present book. <br />Besides twenty texts from the 'Shobogenzo,' this 356-page book includes four additional texts and a selection of Dogen's poems.  It also contains a fine Introduction on Dogen's Life and Teachings, four Appendices, full Notes, an incredibly full and detailed bilingual Glossary of a kind  you will not find elsewhere, a Selected Bibliography, and some interesting illustrations.  <br />Dogen's Japanese is an excruciatingly difficult Japanese, so much so that some think it should be called 'Dogen-ese' and not Japanese.  Think 'Finnegans Wake' and you'll get an inkling of the problems involved in translating him.  The language and thought of  the 'Shobogenzo' come from such a height that there can be no such  thing as a definitive interpretation, and hence no such thing as a definitive translation. <br />'Moon in a Dewdrop' is the result of a collaborative effort by a team  of highly competent American Zenists, some of them very well known.   It has always seemed, in my humble opinion, that, considering the difficulties, they did a very fine job.  To give you a taste, here are a few lines from the 'Genjo Koan' as translated by Robert Aitken and Kazuaki Tanahashi:<br />&quot;The buddha way is, basically, leaping clear of the many and the one; thus there are birth and death, delusion and realization, sentient  beings and buddhas. / Yet in attachment blossoms fall, and in aversion weeds spread&quot; (page 69).<br />Prepared and sensitive readers will be bowled over by 'Moon in a Dewdrop.'  Dogen leaves most other thinkers behind in the dust.  But if you've never read any Dogen before, it might perhaps be better to start with Reiho  Masunaga's 'A Primer of Soto Zen.'  This is a translation of Dogen's 'Shobogenzo Zuimonki,' a short book of brief talks and instructions for Zen beginners and lay followers.  In the 'Zuimonki' you can ramble at leisure the plains and foothills of Dogen's mind before attempting the mountains.	2001-05-28
US	50869571	R3HDPMDROXN58Y	1570620016	66592884	Four Huts (Shambhala Centaur Editions)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Happy with one's surroundings, and at peace within.	Burton Watson, the well-known translator of 'The Complete Works of  Chuang Tzu' and Ssu-Ma Chien's 'Records of the Grand Historian of China,' here turns his attention to something much slighter, though perhaps no less profound.<br />'Four Huts' is made up of four short prose pieces or 'chi' (Records) praising the wisdom of the simple life: 'Record of the Thatched Hall on Mount Lu,' by the major T'ang poet, Po Chu-i; 'Record of the Pond Pavilion' by Yoshishige no Yasutane; 'Record of the Ten-Foot-Square-Hut' by Kamo no Chomei; and 'Record of the Hut of the Phantom' by the famous haiku poet, Matsuo Basho.  <br />All four of these 'Records' or essays have the same theme: the wisdom of removing oneself from the rat-race, setting up a simple residence in beautiful natural surroundings, and getting back in touch with one's real nature and with real things.  They celebrate, as Po Chu-i puts it, being 'happy with one's surroundings and at peace within' (page 9).  Short, and easy to read, it would be a wonderful book to have along with you on your next trip to the forests, lakes, or mountains.<br />The book also contains a brief, though somewhat uninspired Preface, by Watson; brief Introductions and endnotes to each piece; and twelve fine halftone illustrations, by the remarkably competent Zen  calligrapher Stephen Addiss, which help set the mood    <br />It's a small and beautiful book of just 132 pages that will easily fit into a purse or shirt-pocket, well-printed in two colors on a heavy high-quality ivory-tinted paper, bound in a stiff glossy illustrated wrapper, and it even has persimmon endpapers.  As a book, it would have been perfect  if only someone had thought to add stitching.<br />Most of us probably realize that it is the simplest things in life that bring us the greatest joys - a simple and unostenatious dwelling,  time in which to unwind and become what we are supposed to be, a  refreshing breeze, sunlight, wholesome food, raindrops, birdsong, the sound of water, children's laughter, a well-loved book.<br />But despite knowing this we allow ourselves to be seduced by the  tinsel glamor and superficial excitements of the bustling metropolis.   And the question raised by this book is just which of the two, the simple or the glamorous, provides the richest and most rewarding satisfactions?  <br />'Four Huts' will probably be read by those who need it least.  But it would make an ideal gift for some Prozac-popping friend you think needs it most.  It might, with a bit of luck, just end up changing their life.	2001-05-27
US	50869571	RSYU0FHR7CVO2	0231105959	283441191	Chuang Tzu: Basic Writings	Books	5	72	74	N	N	Becoming a Chuang Tzu enthusiast.	Anyone who may be coming to Chuang Tzu for the first time is in for  a treat.  Although Chuang Tzu is sometimes described as the most brilliant of all Chinese philosophers, what we find in him isn't what we normally understand by 'Philosophy' and  isn't technical at all.  <br />His appeal is not so much to the intellect as to the imagination, and he chose as a vehicle for his philosophical insights, not tedious and lengthy abstract treatises, but brief and  witty anecdotes and dialogues and tales.  His humor, sophistication, literary genius, and philosophical insights found their perfect  expression in his brilliant fragments, and once having read them you never forget them.<br />Not much is known about Chuang Tzu, other than that he seems to have lived around the time of King Hui of Liang (370-319 B.C.).  The received text of his book, which is sometimes referred to as 'the Chuang Tzu' (CT), is made up of thirty-three Chapters.  Most scholars seem to feel that the CT is a composite text, and that only the first seven - the Inner Chapters - plus a few bits from the others are Chuang Tzu's own work, the remainder being by others.<br />Among the better known of his translators, all of them excellent, are Arthur Waley, Burton Watson, and A. C. Graham, though only the latter two translated the complete text.  An abridged version of Watson's complete translation has now been made available for those who want to confine themselves mainly to the Inner Chapters. <br />Watson has always struck me as an eminently civilized scholar and as a brilliant translator.  Unlike certain others, he wears his  scholarship lightly, and doesn't overburden the text with extraneous matter.  His many translations from Ancient Chinese  Literature are of uniformly high quality, and are well worth having as they are books one often wants to returns to.  <br />The present book won't, as I've said, give you the whole of Watson's Chuang Tzu.  For that you'll have to find a copy of his 'Complete Works of Chuang Tzu.'  But it will give you most of what is generally agreed to be Chuang Tzu, and everyone should read it.   If you're not a Chuang Tzu enthusiast before you start, I can guarantee that you'll be one before you finish.	2001-05-25
US	50869571	RCQWRYANYIW9F	0674461746	908348152	An Introduction to Literary Chinese (Harvard East Asian Monographs)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	An excellent text but not one for the absolute beginner.	Although this book is billed as a &quot;textbook for beginning students,&quot; it would be more correct to describe it as a university textbook for beginning students of Literary (Classical) Chinese who already have  at least a basic grasp of modern Chinese.  Those who already know modern Chinese will find the book to be an excellent introduction to Classical Chinese.<br />After an informative Introduction which covers the 'Problems of Reading and Understanding Chinese' and 'A Sketch of Literary Chinese,' the main body of the book follows in four parts: Part 1 - Texts to Introduce Basic Grammar; Part 2 - Intermediate Texts; Part 3 - Advanced Texts; Part 4 - Selected Tang and Song Dynasty Writings.  The book is rounded out with six useful appendices - including a comprehensive 40-page 'Glossary of Function Words' - and a detailed 35-page Index.<br />Whereas each of the earlier lessons gives the Grammar needed for the lesson, the Texts, Vocabulary, Notes on the Texts, Questions, Exercises, and sometimes Bibliographic Exercises, these gradually fall away as the student's knowledge progresses, until in Part 4 only the bare texts of Mencius, Chuang Tzu, etc., are given.<br />No answers are provided for the numerous exercises, and many of them require that the student either have or have access to a comprehensive Chinese-Chinese dictionary.  Other exercises require that the student have access to a university library with an extensive Chinese  collection.  It might also be a good idea to provide yourself with a  copy of Edwin G. Pulleyblank's 'Outline of Classical Chinese Grammar,'  a book on which Fuller draws heavily.<br />All in all this is an excellent textbook for students who already know modern Chinese, are studying with a competent teacher, and have access to a good library.  Others who may be innocent of Chinese, but who have become intrigued by what is one of the most interesting and vigorous languages in the world, should look for a copy of Raymond Dawson's 'Introduction to Classical Chinese' (Oxford: Clarendon, 1968) or the same writer's 'New Introduction to Classical Chinese' (Oxford: Clarendon, 1984).<br />Unlike Fuller's textbook, neither of Dawson's  require any previous background in Chinese at all - he even teaches you how to use a Chinese dictionary and how to write Chinese characters -  and both can be used for self study.  Parts 3 and 4 of the Fuller would be of interest, for their texts, to those who have already worked their way through Dawson.	2001-05-25
US	50869571	R3DRG2C14AX33D	0394733118	524016534	Tao: The Watercourse Way	Books	5	133	142	N	N	Sharing the important and beautiful things.	Many years ago I undertook an extensive program of reading in Zen Buddhism, which as many know is simply Buddhism as filtered through the Taoist sensibility.  I must have read or consulted upwards of a  hundred books before finally getting around to Alan Watts 'Way of  Zen.'  Bummer!  What I found was that pretty well everything I'd  learned was right there in Watts, plus a few inimitable bits of his  own.  Did someone say he was a genius...?<br />To read the present book it isn't, of course, necessary to have read  'The Way of Zen' first, although you'll probably want to read it afterwards.  Nor is it necessary to have read Lao Tzu or Chuang Tzu, although those who haven't will probably want to go on to them too. They'll want to go on to get the rest of the story, because the  present book was unfortunately unfinished at the time of Watts' death.<br />Despite its unfinished state, however, it's a gem we wouldn't want to be without, and there's plenty in in it for both the newbie as well as others.  Watts was an amazingly good writer.  His style is clear and straightforward, and he had the knack of making even the knottiest matters understandable.<br />One of the more noteworthy things about the book is Watts' inclusion of a chapter on 'The Chinese Written Language.'  In my more cynical  moods I'm sometimes inclined to think that there is a conspiracy in the West to pretend that Chinese doesn't exist.  Here we have one of  the most fascinating and important languages in the world, and yet so few seem to be interested in it.  So profound is this neglect that most English books on Chinese subjects don't even bother to give the Chinese characters for names and book titles, presumably because they don't realize how useless the romanized forms are.<br />Watts' book is a happy exception to this dangerous neglect.  The Chinese texts of all quoted passages is given in Al Chung-Liang Huang's fine calligraphy.  The Chinese characters of all key terms are also  given in the margins of the book.  Even the titles of some of the books in the Bibliography have been given both in romanized form and in Chinese characters.  And to top if off, there is Watts' fine chapter in which something of the logic and beauty of the Chinese writing  system is explained in an interesting and informative way.<br />Watts was evidently a man who wanted to share the important and  beautiful things he had found in life.  I think his chapter on Chinese writing was intended to draw us in.  I'm sure he was hoping that we  would begin to see the very real link that exists between Chinese calligraphy and the Tao, and that what all good calligraphy shows  us is the Tao in action.<br />I think he might also have been hoping that a few readers might even go on to take up Chinese, so that they could see for themselves how &quot;Chinese has the peculiar advantage of being able to say many things at once and to mean all of them&quot; (page 10).  This is why, as Burton  Watson has pointed out, all translations from Chinese must be personal.  There can be no such thing as a definitive translation because there is no such thing as a definitive interpretation.  <br />In other words, when it comes to translations from the Chinese by competent translators, instead of saying &quot;This is right and that is wrong,&quot; it's much more sensible to say &quot;This is right and that isn't wrong either.&quot;  Frankly I don't think Watts would have minded what you said.  But what a pity he didn't finish his book and show us, as he intended to, another form of the Tao in action.	2001-05-25
US	50869571	R1UKXV5N5VMTHY	0811201031	558887607	The Way of Chuang Tzu (First Edition) (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	118	122	N	N	If you're new to Chiang Tzu, you're in for a treat!	Anyone who may be coming to Chuang Tzu for the first time is in for  a treat.  Although Chuang Tzu is sometimes described as the most brilliant of all Chinese philosophers, what we find in him isn't what we normally understand by 'Philosophy' and isn't technical at all.  <br />His appeal is not so much to the intellect as to the imagination, and he chose as a vehicle for his philosophical insights, not tedious and lengthy abstract treatises, but brief and  witty anecdotes and dialogues and tales.  His humor, sophistication, literary genius, and philosophical insights found their perfect  expression in his brilliant fragments, and once having read them you never forget them.<br />Not much is known about Chuang Tzu, other than that he seems to have lived around the time of King Hui of Liang (370-319 B.C.).  The received text of his book, which is sometimes referred to as 'the Chuang Tzu' (CT), is made up of thirty-three Chapters.  Most scholars seem to feel that the CT is a composite text, and that only the first seven - the Inner Chapters - plus a few bits from the others are Chuang Tzu's own work, the remainder being by his followers.<br />Among the better known of his translators, all of them excellent, are Arthur Waley, Lin Yutang, and Burton Watson, though only the latter translated the complete text.  An abridged version of Watson's complete translation was later made available for those who only want to read the Inner Chapters.  All three of these scholars were Sinologists and had direct access to Chuang Tzu's stylistically brilliant though  somewhat difficult Chinese.  <br />In contrast to the linguistic expertise of Waley, Lin Yutang, and  Watson, Thomas Merton frankly admits to having no Chinese at all.  He has, however, soaked himself in all the best translations, and he tells us that his &quot;free interpretive renderings of characteristic passages [were] the result of five years of reading, study, annotation, and meditation.&quot;  His readings, then, areto be understood, not as direct translations, but as &quot;ventures in personal and spiritual interpretation&quot; (page 9).<br />If we consider that Merton was a bit of a literary genius himself, we won't be surprised by Burton Watson's comment on his readings. In the Introduction to his 'Complete Works of Chuang Tzu,' he tells us that: &quot;[Merton's readings] give a fine sense of the liveliness and  poetry of Chuang Tzu's style, and are actually almost as close to the original as the translations upon which they are based&quot; (page 28).<br />'The Way of Chuang Tzu' is a small book of just 160 pages.  After a 'Note to the Reader' and a 17-page 'Study of Chuang Tzu,' sixty-two readings follow.  Most of them have been set out as verse, and many are illustrated with marvelous Chinese drawings.  The book was first printed in 1965, and the fact that it is still in print tells us that it has been working for many readers.  It certainly worked for me, as it's a book I'd never part with and often return to.  I'm pretty  sure it will work for you too.	2001-05-24
US	50869571	R3PRUPUFHTDYHF	0811201546	790461400	Confucius: The Unwobbling Pivot / The Great Digest / The Analects	Books	5	36	42	N	N	Those who know aren't up to those who love...	One of the worst problems in our world is that it is infested with  'experts,' 'experts' of every variety from the diploma-wavers through to the self-appointed.  The main aim of these 'experts' seems to have been to convince the world that only 'experts' have a right to say anything about anything.  In this they have been extremely successful, and the mature, intelligent, and well-informed adult who may have a lot to contribute, but who is not an 'expert,' has been pretty well reduced to silence.  <br />His mouth has been shut.  He has been convinced that his own God-given brain is worthless.  Even if there's something he'd like to say, he or she is afraid of being shouted down by the 'experts' and their groupies.  A reading of the great Chinese thinkers would soon convince anyone of  how dangerous and damaging to society 'experts' can be, but most of us don't read the Chinese.  We have been conditioned to think of them as alien and to forget that they were human like us.<br />Ezra Pound may have been a bit crazy in some ways (who isn't?), and  his Chinese readings have come in for a lot of flak, but anyone who,  like Pound, loved Asian thought and set out to bring it to a West that  is desperately in need of it, certainly deserves our gratitude whether they be 'expert' or non-expert.  <br />Nobody knows how much Chinese Pound knew anyway.  He certainly knew  some.  And anyone who knows anything at all about the complexities of Classical Chinese realizes that all readings or translations from that language, whether by professional linguists or enthusiasts such as  Pound, must always be personal.  There are just too many ways of  validly interpreting a given line.  <br />And as Burton Watson, who is one of the USA's foremost scholars of Ancient Chinese has pointed out in his 'Complete Works of Chuang Tzu,'  since there can be no definitive interpretation neither can there be  any such thing as a definitive translation.  Watson, incidentally, was perfectly happy to approve Thomas Merton's readings of another great Chinese thinker, Chuang Tzu, even though Merton knew no Chinese at all.  He feels that the more translations, whether expert or non- expert (when done with sincerity and love), the better.  But experts  such as Burton Watson, sadly, are rare, perhaps because they are the  only true experts.<br />My own copy of Pound's 'Confucius' was purchased many years ago.  It's very well-thumbed and heavily annotated, and I often return to  it.  I've also studied Arthur Waley's more exact translation carefully, and a few others.  But the Confucian lines that stick in my mind always seem to be those of Pound, lines such as: &quot;If the root be in confusion, nothing will be well governed&quot; (page 33).<br />The &quot;root&quot; today is certainly &quot;in confusion.&quot;  And those who dismiss Pound on the basis of a few howlers are simply adding to the confusion.  To let you in on a secret, there are many howlers - up to  and including the omission of whole lines - in the translations of even  reputable and well-known scholars of Chinese (though I've never found  any in Burton Watson).<br />My advice would be to ignore the gripers, most of whom don't have  direct access to the Chinese text anyway, and to read Pound's version of Confucius.  He was a literary genius and got it right most of the time, and you'd learn a great deal from it.  <br />Pound's 'Confucius' has always found and will continue to find readers. I think it's because, as Confucius says: &quot;Those who know aren't up to those who love...&quot; (page 216).	2001-05-24
US	50869571	RY01DTS066OLR	0060812451	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Welcoming both saints and sinners.	I was a bit bothered by Stephen Mitchell's version at first, but after spending more time with it begin to have second thoughts.  It's true  that he hasn't given us a literal reading of Lao Tzu's text.  He's dropped bits here and there, and seems to have sneaked in a few bits  of his own.  But hey!  Surely a guy who has survived fourteen years of Zen torture, erh... training, has earned some rights? <br />In effect what Mitchell has done is to give us a stripped-down and  modernized re-working of the Tao Te Ching.  This strategy has led to  some very real benefits.  Many of the obscurer details, details that  even have Chinese scholars scratching their heads, seem to have pretty well gone.  Also gone is the wordiness of other translations.  What remains is the essence, and it stands out clearly. <br />Frankly I don't think you'll miss much of Lao Tzu's message of peace, simplicity, patience, compassion, tolerance.  No important notion seems  to have been lost.  And Mitchell's language has a wonderful simplicity and directness.  Here's an example chosen at random from Chapter 9,  with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Chase after money and security / and your heart will never unclench. / Care about people's approval / and you will be their prisoner.&quot;<br />These are important truths.  Two of the many in this text that we do  well to keep in mind.  And &quot;unclench&quot; -- the grasping heart as a tight clenched fist -- is a very nice touch. <br />Of course, it isn't exactly what Lao Tzu said.  But somehow I don't  think Old Master Lao would mind.  After all, didn't he suggest we  should &quot;welcome both saints and sinners&quot;?	2001-05-22
US	50869571	R1KBYDYK4AQAP9	0804706883	563615373	Lao Tzu and Taoism. (English and French Edition)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	A stimulating concise overview of the essentials of Taoism.	Philosophical Taoism, although an extremely profound system of thought, is not especially complex.  Unlike Advaita Vedanta, for example, which revels in complexity and has a very extensive Sanskrit philosophic terminology, Taoism is much more straightforward and there are few technical terms for the student to wrestle with.  <br />Its two main texts, the Tao Te Ching and Chuang Tzu, can be read quite easily by anyone in unannotated bare-text versions such as those of Lin Yutang and John C. H. Wu.  Most of what these texts have to tell us will be clear enough - though a lifetime could be spent pondering some of it - and most readers will probably be content to remain with the texts.<br />For those, however, whose curiosity has been aroused, and who would like to know something of Taoism's historical and philosophical  context and to read a brief scholarly analysis of its key ideas, I doubt there could be anything better than the present book by French Sinologist Max Kaltenmark.<br />Originally published in 1965 under the title 'Lao tseu et le taoisme,' it's a small book of just 158 pages and has been beautifully  translated into clear and vigorous English by Roger Greaves.  After a brief Introduction we are given separate Chapters on Lao Tzu, The Teaching, The Holy Man, Chuang Tzu, and The Taoist Religion (the magico-religious system which should not be confused with philosophical Taoism proper).  The book is rounded out with a brief Conclusion, a Selected Bibliography of both English and French sources, and an Index.<br />Professor Kaltenmark tells us in his Preface that, because of  limitations of format, he was &quot;forced ... to deal almost exclusively  with essentials&quot; (page v).  His book, in consequence, provides us with a concise but wonderfully readable overview of Taoism, in both its philosophic and magico-religious manifestations, and nothing of real significance seems to have been overlooked.  <br />In addition, the book is considerably enriched by its many striking and well-translated excerpts, not only from Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu, but also from commentators such as Ho Shang Kung and other less familiar sources.  Kaltenmark's is one of those books that one  constantly returns to.  I'm pretty sure that you would enjoy it too.	2001-05-22
US	50869571	R3IM1A3NBNOUA	0042990106	11321732	Chuang-Tzu:  The Inner Chapters	Books	4	69	79	N	N	Chuang Tzu smiles and nods his head in approval.	Chuang Tzu is the wisest, wittiest, and easiest-to-read of all philosophical writers, and also the greatest.  And the question that A. C. Graham's 'Chuang-Tzu - The Inner Chapters' raises in an acute form is this:  Do you want to read Chuang Tzu himself?  Or do you want  to study what a scholarly mind thinks about him, and in the process  have your mind carefully adjusted so that you will end up thinking in  the same way too?<br />In other words, are you a mature and sensible person with an enquiring mind, who for some reason or other has become interested in China's  most brilliant philosophical rascal - one who would have let out a howl of laughter if shown the present book?  Or are you a student being run through society's ideological mill, and one needing to grub up on the history of Chinese philosophy and Chuang Tzu's relation to the Mohists and Logicians and other such extraneous stuff, a mill for whom Chuang  Tzu is just another 'philosopher' (a word that hardly describes him  since he's something much bigger)?<br />If you are one of the latter, perhaps Graham, who is one of the world's foremost Sinologists and a brilliant translator, is the man for you.  So far as Graham is concerned, and many agree, most of the received text of Chuang Tzu wasn't written by Chuang Tzu at all.  He feels that only the first seven chapters, the 'Inner Chapters,' are Chuang Tzu's own work, the other chapters being a collection of pieces written by others, and in his edition has rearranged the text to bring it into line with his thesis.<br />Consequently his book falls into six parts: 1. Introduction; 2. The Inner Chapters and related passages; 3. A 'School of Chuang-tzu' selection; 4. The essays of the Primitivists; 5. The Yangist miscellany; 6. The Syncretist writings.<br />The 40-page Introduction is both detailed and informative.  Each of the remaining six parts has its own introductory note, and is annotated  with other long notes.  The book is rounded out with a List of Chinese Characters (sinographs) and an Index.  All in all, then, this is a thorough and scholarly production in which Graham presents a very persuasive and convincing case for his complex rearrangement of Chuang Tzu's text, and one backed up by lots of impeccably logical argument.<br />So why did I say it would have made Chuang Tzu howl with laughter? Well, because Graham's rationalist approach violates the whole spirit of Chuang Tzu, a man who had seen through the folly of the overemphasis on reason.  Graham founds himself squarely in reason, while failing to note that reason can never really arrive at the truth.  Chuang Tzu, in contrast, and although he was certainly capable of a reasonable use of reason, was more a bubbling and sparkling fountain of joyous insights, brilliant insights into the nature of man and woman and reality, and he doesn't need any commentators.  All you need to read him is a mind of your own.<br />Confronted by the kind of mindset represented by Graham, we should never forget what Lu Chi (+ 754-805) reminds us of in his brilliant 'Essay on Literature,' the 'Wen fu,' when he tells us that: 'Theses are convincing - but deceptive...'  I can just see Chuang Tzu smiling and nodding his head in approval.<br />So if you are a student, and if you need a heavily annotated scholarly (though rearranged) translation because you have to grub up for an exam on Chinese Philosophy, Graham's edition can certainly be recommended.  Others, however, who may be approaching Chuang Tzu for the first time, would be wiser to look for something less cluttered, something that allows them more immediate access to this scintillating writer without the distractions of a mass of extraneous matter.  Two uncluttered and excellent translations that can be strongly recommended are those of Lin Yutang and Burton Watson.<br />And for the simplest and easiest approach of all to Chuang Tzu there is Thomas Merton's quite brilliant reworking and abridgement, 'The Way of Chuang Tzu.'Merton, who was not a scholar of Chinese, may not have given us Chuang Tzu's actual words in his selection of these ironic, witty, and sophisticated  stories.  But as a man of insight he's succeeded wonderfully in  capturing the spirit of the old rascal.<br />Purists may scowl, but I think I spot Chuang Tzu looking down from his dragon as it flaps him across the heavens, and beaming and nodding in approval of Merton too.	2001-05-22
US	50869571	R2OJSJ96WHVGMJ	0060812451	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	5	58	72	N	N	Welcoming both saints and sinners.	I was a bit bothered by Stephen Mitchell's version at first, but after spending more time with it begin to have second thoughts.  It's true  that he hasn't given us a literal reading of Lao Tzu's text.  He's dropped bits here and there, and seems to have sneaked in a few bits  of his own.  But hey!  Surely a guy who has survived fourteen years of Zen torture, erh... training, has earned some rights? <br />In effect what Mitchell has done is to give us a stripped-down and  modernized re-working of the Tao Te Ching.  This strategy has led to  some very real benefits.  Many of the obscurer details, details that  even have Chinese scholars scratching their heads, seem to have pretty well gone.  Also gone is the wordiness of other translations.  What remains is the essence, and it stands out clearly. <br />Frankly I don't think you'll miss much of Lao Tzu's message of peace, simplicity, patience, compassion, tolerance.  No important notion seems  to have been lost.  And Mitchell's language has a wonderful simplicity and directness.  Here's an example chosen at random from Chapter 9,  with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Chase after money and security / and your heart will never unclench. / Care about people's approval / and you will be their prisoner.&quot;<br />These are important truths.  Two of the many in this text that we do  well to keep in mind.  And &quot;unclench&quot; -- the grasping heart as a tight clenched fist -- is a very nice touch. <br />Of course, it isn't exactly what Lao Tzu said.  But somehow I don't  think Old Master Lao would mind.  After all, didn't he suggest we  should &quot;welcome both saints and sinners&quot;?	2001-05-21
US	50869571	R3QT9VIBH0IEZU	0231074298	43178439	The Columbia Anthology of Traditional Chinese Literature	Books	4	24	28	N	N	A comprehensive anthology of mainly academic translations.	'The Columbia Anthology of Traditional Chinese Literature,' Edited by Victor Mair, is a very large book of over 1300 pages which offers the reader &quot;a broad selection of expertly translated texts from the widest possible variety of sources.&quot; The selection, which seems on the whole  to have been very well done, has been arranged in five main divisions: Foundations and Interpretations; Verse; Prose; Fiction; and Oral and Performing Arts.  Besides the familiar, readers will find here much interesting material they may not have seen before - for example: extracts from Shang Divination Records, Bronze Inscriptions, wonderful  Buddhist stories, and so on.<br />As for the translations, Mair tells us that almost all of them were  done by &quot;professional sinologists teaching in American universities.&quot;  These lightly annotated academic translations range in quality from the excellent work of scholars of the caliber of Burton Watson and Leon Hurvitz, through to the rather pedestrian efforts of the less inspired, in fairly equal balance.  The selections are preceded by an interesting and informative 10-page Preface by the Editor, and a double-page Map of the Provinces of China.<br />The book is rounded out with a table of the Principal Chinese Dynasties and Periods, and a Wade-Giles to Pinyin conversion table. Since this information is readily available elsewhere, neither of  these tables are really necessary, though Mair is to be commended on  his decision to employ a modified Wade-Giles system of transcription throughout the anthology, in preference to the &quot;extremely repulsive&quot; (Needham) Pinyin so beloved by most modern sinologists.<br />Since Mair felt that they would be &quot;useless and out of place,&quot; no  Chinese characters (sinographs) have been given for any of the Chinese names, book titles, etc.  A far more serious omission is the complete absence from this book of an Index.  We are given neither an Index of Names, nor an Index of Titles - not even a General Index in which they could been bundled together.  We have not even been given a List of Contributors (there are over one hundred) except on the back of the dust-jacket where we learn that among the non-academic translators are luminaries such as Pound, Snyder, and Rexroth. This makes the  book extremely difficult to use.<br />Locating specific items involves repeated and tiresome searches through the 14-page 258-item Table of Contents.  For example, Mair tells us in his Preface that because of its great popularity he has included some selections from Lin Yutang's translation of 'Six Chapters of a Floating Life.'  But it will take you some time to find out where they are.  And if, as I am, you happen to be interested in a specific translator such as Lin Yutang, since the translators' names are not shown in the Table of Contents, you will have to leaf through all  1300 pages to find their contributions.  It will also take you  a lot of searching to determine, for example, whether or not Lu Chi's 'Wen fu' (Essay on Literature) has been included in the book.  So far  as I can see, it hasn't - but I could be wrong.  And if it hasn't been included, I wonder why?<br />The book is stitched and well-printed in a readable font on excellent paper.  Anyone who is looking for a comprehensive anthology of  traditional Chinese Literature understood in its broadest sense, and in scholarly and exact (though not always inspired) translations with informative notes, will find much that is of very real interest  and value in this book.  I've enjoyed reading many of the selections,  and have benefited from their brief and interesting notes.<br />And Professor Mair is certainly to be more than commended on his  decision to employ the older and elegant - though imperfect - Wade-Giles system of transcription, rather than the trendy and ugly - and just as imperfect - modern Pinyin system.  But I do wish the book  had included at least a General Index!tles - not even a General Index in which they could been bundled together.  We have not even been given a List of Contributors (there are over one hundred) except on the back of the dust-jacket where we learn that among the non-academic translators are luminaries such as Pound, Snyder, and Rexroth. This makes the  book extremely difficult to use.  <br />Locating specific items involves repeated and tiresome searches through the 14-page 258-item Table of Contents.  For example, Mair tells us in his Preface that because of its great popularity he has included some selections from Lin Yutang's translation of 'Six Chapters of a Floating Life.'  But it will take you some time to find out where they are.  And if, as I am, you happen to be interested in a specific translator such as Lin Yutang, since the translators' names are not shown in the Table of Contents, you will have to leaf through all  1300 pages to find their contributions.  It will also take you  a lot of searching to determine, for example, whether or not Lu Chi's 'Wen fu' (Essay on Literature) has been included in the book.  So far  as I can see, it hasn't - but I could be wrong.  And if it hasn't been included, I wonder why?<br />The book is stitched and well-printed in a readable font on excellent paper.  Anyone who is looking for a comprehensive anthology of  traditional Chinese Literature understood in its broadest sense, and in scholarly and exact (though not always inspired) translations with informative notes, will find much that is of very real interest  and value in this book.  I've enjoyed reading many of the selections,  and have benefited from their brief and interesting notes.<br />And Professor Mair is certainly to be more than commended on his  decision to employ the older and elegant - though imperfect - Wade-Giles system of transcription, rather than the trendy and ugly - and just as imperfect - modern Pinyin system.  But I do wish the book  had included at least a General Index!	2001-05-21
US	50869571	R2V90Z7LEKNIOJ	014044131X	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	4	63	80	N	N	'Theses are convincing - but deceptive...'	Although D. C. Lau's edition of the Tao Te Ching has been sitting on  my shelves for years, I've never felt particularly drawn to it.  In  contrast to my well-thumbed copies of Lin Yutang, J. J. L. Duyvendak,  Ellen M. Chen, Zen adept Stephen Mitchell, and others, the Lau is still in a relatively pristine condition.<br />I don't think this is because of the quality of the translation, a translation which, though occasionally a bit wordy, reads well enough  in other places.  I think it's more because Lau strikes me as a hard-boiled Confucian with a thesis.  <br />Today we are all more than used to theses.  The air is thick with them.  Given a bit of time, any clever woman or man can easily construct one. But we should never forget what Lu Chi (+ 754-805) reminds us  of in his brilliant 'Essay on Literature,' the 'Wen fu,' when he tells  us that: 'Theses are convincing - but deceptive...'<br />Chapter 18 of the Tao Te Ching offers what seems to me to be a perfect comment on thesis books:<br />&quot;When the body's intelligence declines, / cleverness and knowledge step forth&quot; (tr. Stephen Mitchell).<br />In Ellen M. Chen the same passage reads: &quot;When intelligence (hui)  and knowledge (chih) appear, / There is great artificiality (wei)&quot; (page 99).<br />And in Lau: &quot;When cleverness emerges / There is great hypocrisy&quot;  (page 74).<br />Many readers will probably find that Lau's edition suits them well enough for their purposes, but those who might prefer an edition which  is not merely scholarly but also sympathetic might take a look at Professor Ellen M. Chen's 'The Tao Te Ching - A New Translation with Commentary' (New York: Paragon House, 1989  ISBN 1-55778-238-5).   I think that for your money you'll be getting a little more than &quot;cleverness.&quot;	2001-05-18
US	50869571	R2N1L4IW7BDPZV	0963209159	910827057	Golden Fountain: The Complete Guide to Urine Therapy	Books	5	197	210	N	Y	Urine Therapy for health, beauty, longevity, sexual potency.	I was enormously impressed by this book.  Its author strikes me as a responsible and highly intelligent person who has made an important discovery and wishes, for humanitarian reasons, to make it known to the world.<br /><br />Kroon first became interested in urine therapy in India after sustaining a serious injury to his foot.  When instead of healing, the foot  gradually grew worse, someone suggested that he use urine compresses. Having nothing to lose he decided to give it a try - and it worked! He then set about researching the subject, both in India and the  West, and 'The Golden Fountain - The Complete Guide to Urine Therapy' brings us the fruits of his research and his years of practical experience.<br /><br />Although not a large book it's packed with an enormous amount of fascinating and valuable information, too much to even begin to adequately describe.  After a brief Introduction, Kroon takes up the history of Urine therapy in both the West - where it was used to cure innumerable complaints in earlier centuries - and in the East.<br /><br />Urine, we learn, has anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, anti-viral, and anti-cancer properties.  Also, by strengthening the immune system and correcting the imbalance which underlies most disease, it can in many cases help  to cure just about anything, and it has other valuable properties too.<br /><br />A chapter on Applications is included which describes the various ways urine can be used, both internally and externally, to promote health, beauty, longevity, and even sexual potency!  Detailed instructions are given on drinking, bathing, gargling, douching, eye and ear drops, sniffing, massage, compresses, rubbings, foot and hip baths, scalp  and hair massages, and other applications.<br /><br />Chapter 5 is devoted to the 'Medical and Scientific Aspects of Urine Therapy.'  In it we learn that urine, far from being the nasty stuff most of us suppose, is a veritable natural pharmacy.  It is a sterile liquid, filtered fromthe blood by our kidneys, and consists of energized structured water plus upwards of some 200 substances.<br /><br />Among these substances are such things as amino acids, proteins,  enzymes, vitamins (thiamine, riboflavin, B6,B12, ascorbic acid, etc.), hormones (gonadotropin, vasopressin, cortisone, testosterone, oestrogen, etc.) urea, allantoin, DHEA, H-11, HUD, Interleukin, prostaglandin, and so on.<br /><br />Some of these are in fact being extracted from urine by today's pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries, repackaged, and sold to us under various names - though without of course telling us where  they came from.  Chapter 5 concludes with a 60-item bibliography of  the scientific literature.<br /><br />The book then moves on to a section of personal testimonies from people around the world who have experienced the remarkable health-promoting powers of urine therapy.  Their general attitude is pretty well summed up by one gentleman from India who wrote: \\"Urine therapy is the gift of God - a panacea - for human beings and animals\\" (page 80).<br /><br />Kroon's is a remarkably rich and interesting book, contains much about the How's and Why's and Wherefore's that I haven't been able to touch  on here, and it can be heartily recommended to all open-minded readers.  The book is also extremely well written, has a useful general bibliography, and contains a number of interesting photographs,  including one of the author.<br /><br />His glowing complexion would be the envy of many, and you'd be hard put to find a more vibrant, healthy-looking and bright-eyed individual.  One begins to feel that, if this is what urine therapy can do for one's health, well-being, and appearance, it might just be worth a try!	2001-05-18
US	50869571	R3KTV44CTXA723	0060193220	524015341	The Tao Te Ching: An Illustrated Journey	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Somehow I don't think Old Master Lao would mind.	I was a bit bothered by Stephen Mitchell's version at first, but after spending more time with it begin to have second thoughts.  It's true  that he hasn't given us a literal reading of Lao Tzu's text.  He's dropped bits here and there, and seems to have sneaked in a few bits  of his own.  But hey!  Surely a guy who has survived fourteen years of Zen torture, erh... training, has earned some rights? <br />In effect what Mitchell has done is to give us a stripped-down and  modernized re-working of the Tao Te Ching.  This strategy has led to  some very real benefits.  Most of the obscurer parts, parts that even have Chinese scholars scratching their heads, seem to have pretty well gone.  Also gone is the wordiness that finds its way into so many  other translations.  What remains is the essence, and it stands  out clearly. <br />Frankly I don't think you'll miss much of Lao Tzu's message of simplicity, patience, compassion.  No important notion seems to have  been lost.  And Mitchell's language has a wonderful simplicity and directness.  Here's an example chosen at random from Chapter 9, with  my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Chase after money and security / and your heart will never unclench. / Care about people's approval / and you will be their prisoner.&quot;<br />These are important truths.  Two of the many in this text that we do  well to keep in mind.  And &quot;unclench&quot; -- the grasping heart as a tight clenched fist -- is a very nice touch. Of course, it isn't  exactly what Lao Tzu said.  But somehow I don't  think Old Master Lao would mind.  In fact, he'd probably feel honored  by the paintings too.	2001-05-17
US	50869571	R13CPP3MF338MQ	0198154615	135779674	A New Introduction to Classical Chinese	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An excellent textbook that requires real application.	I know of two books on Classical Chinese by Raymond Dawson:<br />1.  An Introduction to Classical Chinese (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1968).  Written by a Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford, and comfortingly orthodox, the aim of this text is to introduce English-speaking students to the language of those important works of ancient Chinese literature which were written during the last centuries of the Chou (Zhou) period (4th and 3rd centuries B.C.).  A selection of passages (in full-form printed graphs) from Mencius, Mo-tzu, Chuang-tzu, Kuo-yu, and the Tso-chuan, are followed by detailed grammatical analysis.  The book ends with translations of the earlier passages, and with a full vocabulary.  This is a textbook from England which demands real application. Excellent, and highly recommended. <br />2.  A New Introduction to Classical Chinese (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1984). Similar in conception, emphasis, and organization to his earlier book, but with a changed selection of passages, a 27% increase in characters covered to just over 900, and a shift from W-G to Pinyin + W-G in the vocabularies. Not quite as easy to use as the earlier edition, as Dawson has omitted all romanization of characters in the detailed grammatical analyses, but an excellent book nevertheless and strongly recommended.	2001-05-17
US	50869571	R4VW1NWQITOCS	0140190600	524015341	Tao Te Ching: The Book of Meaning and Life (Arkana)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An edition for the more studiously inclined.	The title-page of my earlier Arkana (1985) edition of this book (which does not include the later supplementary material by Darrell T. Liu) reads: &quot;TAO TE CHING - The Book of Meaning and Life - Lao Tzu - Translation and Commentary by Richard Wilhelm - Translated into English by H. G. Ostwald.&quot; Wilhelm's German translation was first published in 1925 and appeared in Mr Ostwald's clear and vigorous English in 1985.<br />Richard Wilhelm, of course, is better known for his translation of the 'I Ching,' a translation that has had an enormous influence.  His remains the key edition of this classic for English readers, and was so well done it is unlikely ever to be superseded. <br />In the present work, Wilhelm has given us a remarkably fine edition of the 'Tao Te Ching,' a text whose author he feels was greatly influenced by the 'I Ching.' His edition breaks down into three main parts.  <br /> After a brief Preface we are given an interesting and informative 20-page Introduction which covers The author, The text, Historical context, and Content. Although relatively brief, Wilhelm covers a lot of ground in this Introduction, and the general reader might find the fourth part of it heavy going. It seems clearly intended for the serious student who is prepared to come to grips with some of the deeper philosophical implications of the text. <br />As for the text itself, I've no idea what Wilhelm's original German is like, but Mr Ostwald is to be congratulated on having given us a brisk and lively English translation.  Much of it somehow seems more readable than other versions, possibly because Wilhelm himself found a certain amount of drama in the 'Tao Te Ching' that other translators have either overlooked or tended to ignore, and one often gets more of the feel of a real person speaking. Here is a brief example from Chapter 30, with my slash marks added to indicate line breaks:<br />  \\"Whosoever in true DAO helps a ruler of men / does not rape the world by use of arms, / for actions return onto one's own head. / Where armies have dwelt thistles and thorns grow. / Behind battles follow years of hunger\\" (page 40).  <br />The translation is followed by a 30-page Commentary on 'The Teaching of Lao Zi [Tzu]' which covers the DAO [TAO], The phenomenal world, On the attainment of DAO, Worldly wisdom, State and society, and Daoism after Lao Zi.  The book is rounded out with 28-pages of detailed chapter-by-chapter Notes, and a brief Bibliography of Chinese and Western sources.<br />All in all, and although the translation could be read with pleasure and profit by anyone, Wilhelm's is a scholarly edition for the more studiously inclined who are interested in such things as the historical and philosophical context, and who may already have a certain amount of background.  <br />The general reader who is new to the 'Tao Te Ching,' and who would prefer a more straightforward edition, might be better served by the text-only editions of Gia-Fu Feng or John C. H. Wu. These too read very well, and there's something to be said for the immediate exposure to the text that such editions offer.  I don't think Lao Tzu would have had any quibbles.	2001-05-16
US	50869571	R2YBQN4YR6SEOC	0060193220	524015341	The Tao Te Ching: An Illustrated Journey	Books	5	121	128	N	N	Somehow I don't think Old Master Lao would mind.	I was a bit bothered by Stephen Mitchell's version at first, but after spending more time with it begin to have second thoughts.  It's true that he hasn't given us a literal reading of Lao Tzu's text.  He's dropped bits here and there, and seems to have sneaked in a few bits of his own. But hey!  Surely a guy who has survived fourteen years of Zen torture, erh... training, has some rights?  <br />In effect what Mitchell has done is to give us a stripped-down and interpreted and simplified version of the Tao Te Ching.  This strategy has led to some very real benefits.  Most of the obscure parts, parts that even have Chinese scholars scratching their heads, seem to have pretty well gone.  What has been left is the essence, and it stands out clearly.   <br />Frankly I don't think you'll miss much of Lao Tzu's message.  No important notion seems to have been lost.  And Mitchell's language   has a wonderful simplicity and directness.  Here's an example chosen  at random from Chapter 9, with my slash marks to indicate line breaks:<br />&quot;Chase after money and security / and your heart will never unclench. / Care about people's approval / and you will be their prisoner.&quot;<br />These are important truths.  Two of the many in this text that we do  well to keep in mind.  And &quot;unclench&quot; - the heart as a tight clenched fist - is a very nice touch.  Of course, it isn't exactly what Lao Tzu said.  But somehow I don't think Old Master Lao would mind.   In fact, he'd probably be honored by the paintings too.	2001-05-16
US	50869571	R18ON599T4D7C5	0679776192	524015341	Tao Te Ching, 25th-Anniversary Edition (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	5	91	95	N	N	Opening up a space for the myriad things to advance.	Perhaps we need different editions of the Tao Te Ching for different moods. When we are in a more analytic and outward-directed mood we will turn to an edition such as that, perhaps, of Ellen M. Chen, an edition with a substantial and stimulating introduction and with very full and detailed commentaries. <br />When in a more receptive and intuitive mood, however, a mood in which the busy-ness of the rational intellect is stilled and the deeper levels of mind are open to more subtle influences, our needs become different. At such times we will perhaps benefit more from a stripped-down version of the Tao Te Ching, one that allows the text to advance directly and make contact with our sensibility without the distractions of notes and commentaries and suchlike. <br />Although it was first published in 1973, the fact that the edition of Gia-Fu Feng and Jane English has never been out-of-print suggests that it is an edition that has been working for many people, one that satisfies perfectly one side of our nature, the gentler and more receptive and aesthetic side, perhaps the wiser side. <br />Each Chapter of the Tao Te Ching is given on two large quarto-sized pages which hold the English translation, the brushed Chinese text, and the black-and-white photographs. The white pages also hold large areas of blank space, an 'Emptiness' or 'Openness' in which, as others have noted, the black texts and pictures are allowed room in which to breathe and be themselves.  <br />The English translation is simple, pure, spare. Here is a brief example from Chapter 48, with my slash marks indicating line breaks in the original:<br />&quot;In the pursuit of learning, every day something is acquired. / In the pursuit of Tao, every day something is dropped. // Less and less is done / Until non-action is achieved. / When nothing is done, nothing is left undone.&quot;<br />The translation has been recommended by no less an authority than Alan Watts, himself competent in Chinese, who commented: &quot;No one has done better in conveying Lao Tsu's simple and laconic style of writing.&quot; <br />The calligraphy is exceptional. It is brushed lightly and with sensitive though vigorous strokes in a range of styles whose size and weight harmonize perfectly with both text and pictures. Also noteworthy is that, in most cases, legibility has not been sacrificed to beauty for the structure of even complex characters can be readily discerned. <br />Even those who may not know Chinese will be subtly influenced by it, for all Chinese ideograms are characterized by an exquisite balance, and an economy and beauty which are precisely the qualities we find in Lao Tsu's text. The calligraphy floats on the page like clouds floating through a Chinese sky, and establishes a perfect mood.<br />The ability to appreciate Chinese calligraphy, though uncommon in the West, is not difficult to come by since all it involves is learning to open our eyes. A little application will quickly lead anyone to see that it is the world's supreme art form, a highly abstract, dynamic, and endlessly fascinating art form, and to understand what Lin Yutang meant when he said that &quot;in the realms of art, [China] soared where others merely made an effort to flap their wings.&quot;<br />The spareness and beauty of both text and calligraphy are perfectly reinforced by the striking though unpretentious black-and-white photographs which are given on each page, photographs of such things as a branch poaking through the surface of a lake, a foot, a bird perched on a stump, a house on a rocky outcrop, snow heaped up on a leaf, a gull in flight, a rainstorm, a seashell, a burning candle. <br />These are the important things, seemingly simple though of infinite value as are the fundamental truths embodied in the lines of Lao Tsu.<br />Very close to the thought of Lao Tsu's Chapter 48 is an observation made by the great Japanese Zen Master, Dogen (+ 1200-1253):<br />&quot;Conveying the self to the myriadbeings to authenticate them is delusion; the myriad things advancing to authenticate the self is enlightenment&quot; (Tr. F. H. Cook).<br />Life offers only two choices. We can reach out aggressively to grab. Or we can open up a space in ourselves and allow the myriad things of the universe to come forward and disclose themselves. <br />It's easy to see what Gia-Fu Feng and Jane English were trying to do in this book. It's also easy to see that they succeeded brilliantly.<br />By the way, not that it will matter to most but the calligraphy of Chapter 67 has been printed in reverse and what we see on the page is a mirror-image of the original...	2001-05-14
US	50869571	R1GOD0POL6T5EQ	0313211647	969582230	The Wisdom of Laotse	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A true treasure of wisdom spiced with fun.	One of my most treasured possessions is battered old Chinese paperback I picked up for the equivalent of about fifty cents many years ago. The print is uneven and smudged, the paper is poor-quality with lots of show-through, and the book isn't even properly bound but has just been stapled together. <br />So why do I treasure it?  Well, in the first place because it's a book of selections from a man I personally consider to be the wisest and wittiest philosophical writer the world has ever seen, the Taoist Chuang-tzu.  I also treasure it because, although I've looked at many different editions of Chuang-tzu, I've never seen him translated so  well.  The translator is Lin Yutang, a man who almost got the Nobel prize for his literary accomplishments, and if you read him you'll understand why.<br />The present book, 'The Wisdom of Laotse,' has also always been very special to me.  In it, Lin Yutang has had the brilliant idea of interspersing, chapter-by-chapter along with his translation of  Lao-tzu's Tao Te Ching, a very generous selection of passages from  his marvelous version of Chuang-tzu which help to point up and expand upon the themes of the Tao Te Ching.<br />Lin Yutang, in other words, has given us both the Tao Te Ching and the essence of Chuang-tzu between the covers of the same book.  Both of these are works to nourish the spirit, works we often find ourselves returning to, a true treasure of wisdom spiced with fun.  <br />It's unfortunate that the Lin Yutang is now out-of-print.  It's an older translation, but I don't think it's ever really been bettered.   And Lao-tzu could have no finer commentator than Chuang-tzu.  Perhaps you'll get lucky and be able to find a used copy.  I hope so, as I don't think you'll regret it.	2001-05-13
US	50869571	RAZXI9FVPFJZ9	0871563681	764235099	News of the Universe: Poems of Twofold Consciousness	Books	5	71	72	N	N	Re-tuning to the UNIVERSE.	Most of the books we read, no matter how startling they may be and no matter how much seeming &quot;News&quot; they may bring us, somehow end up fitting quite comfortably into our mind.  We read them, we may be excited about them for a while, but they are soon set aside and we move on, quite unchanged, to fresh pastures.<br />Rarely, very rarely however, a book will happen along that truly rocks us, a book that has the power to shift our mind into a different register, to provide us with a whole new way of seeing.  Such books have the effect of somehow altering our mind, re-structuring it, opening up new synapses, and thereby enabling or empowering us see the world in  a wholly new and different light.  These are golden books, bearers of striking truths, of real &quot;News.&quot;  Perhaps we need to be intellectually and emotionally ready for them, but when they do come they can effect a radical change in our outlook on life.<br />Despite many years of intensive reading, I can think of only two or  three books that have affected me in this way.  One of them was by the British writer, Douglas E. Harding.  Another was the present book.  <br />One of the things Bly's 'News of the Universe' taught me to see was that modern human beings are a very strange lot, a life-form that is totally and utterly obsessed with just one thing - itself.  Most of our waking moments are occupied with people-related matters.  We are almost manically people-obsessed.  We read books about people, watch movies about people, think and talk incessantly about people.  And we don't find this odd.<br />We are concerned with what people are saying, thinking, feeling, doing, wearing, drinking, eating, buying, building, plotting, loving, fearing, suffering, etc.  But always it's people that our  attention is focused on, and we often completely overlook the fact  that people are just ONE among the many MILLIONS of earth's interesting life-forms, and that even the earth itself is just one of an infinite number of worlds.  <br />In other words, in our constant people-centered busy-ness what we overlook is - THE UNIVERSE.  People, of course, are important.  But what about the rest of the universe?  Robert Bly's invaluable book has been written to redress the balance.  He seems to want us to see just how totally wrapped up we are in ourselves, and that this obsession is neither wholesome nor realistic.  It is in fact a form of madness and extremely dangerous.  <br />'News of the Universe' is a book of some 300 pages and is divided into six main parts.  Each of these six parts consists of a brief essay followed by a generous selection of poems which serve to illustrate the themes of the essay.<br />Bly's book would be worth having for the poems alone.  He has brought together a rich collection of both the familiar and the unfamiliar, from many periods and cultures, and the non-English poems have been very well-translated.  I often return to my own well-thumbed copy, purchased about fifteen years ago, to re-read my favorites.  <br />One of these is the poem 'GOLDEN LINES' by Gerard de Nerval, a poem  which could serve as a manifesto for the book.  It is preceded by this epigraph from Pythagoras : &quot;Astonishing!  Everything is intelligent!&quot;  Here are the opening lines, slightly adjusted since they should be set out as poetry:<br />&quot;Free thinker!  Do you think you are the only thinker / on this earth in which life blazes inside all things? / Your liberty does what it wishes with the powers it controls, / but when you gather to plan, the universe is not there.  // Look carefully in an animal at a spirit alive; / every flower is a soul opening out into nature; / a mystery touching love is asleep inside metal...&quot; (page 38).<br />These lines bear careful pondering by our manically people-obsessed world, as do many others in Bly's carefully culled selection.  But  almost as impressive as the poems are Bly's introductory essays themselves. Personally I consider them to be minor masterpieces, and I find myself often returning to them also.  Despite their brevity, it would  be impossible here for me to convey an adequate idea of the sheer  freight of true &quot;News&quot; content that they carry, real &quot;News&quot; that is vastly more important for us to become aware of than the trivia which passes for 'news' in our popular media.  <br />Basically what the essays and poems set out to do, and they do it very effectively indeed, is to demonstrate that what Bly calls the &quot;Old Position,&quot; the &quot;pride in human reason&quot; and &quot;the conviction that nature  is defective because it lacks reason&quot; has had the effect of &quot;deforming all poetry and culture&quot; (page 3).<br />What we must learn to realize and to fully embrace is the notion that human consciousness is only one of the many kinds of consciousness operating in the universe.  We cannot continue to deny consciousness, and therefore value, to the non-human, and on the basis of this fundamental error proceed to separate humans out and pretend that the rest of earth's living matrix doesn't matter.  Such a procedure has led to a grotesque deformation of our civilization, and it can only end in the complete destruction of all life.  <br />This, needless to say, is not the sort of news that most of the inhabitants of our media-befuddled world want to hear.  And this because collisions with reality are usually painful.  But for the few thoughtful and courageous and concerned who are still out there, and who would like to re-tune to the Universe, I would urge you to acquire a copy of Robert Bly's book.  It's a luminous book, and definitely one  of the most important books I've ever read.  It may just give you a new and more realistic outlook on life.	2001-05-12
US	50869571	R2IU8SOI14UYK9	0939218178	722957552	A Hundred And Seventy Chinese Poems	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Refreshing the roots of the mind.	Waley, who was one of the great Sinologists of the twentieth century, translated a wide variety of Eastern works but is perhaps best known  for his translations of Chinese poetry.  His '170 Chinese Poems,' a book which contains, among other riches, the marvelous poems of T'ao Ch'ien, Po Chu-I, and Wang Wei, has been reissued many times.  And although we have seen other very fine translations of Chinese poetry  from writers as diverse as A. C. Graham, Kenneth Rexroth, and Gary Snyder, none of them have had the impact of Waley.  Chinese poetry,  for many, is and always will mean Arthur Waley.  His influence has  been enormous.<br />I would attribute his success to two things.  In the first place, there is the very special quality of his English, a quality impossible to describe.  In the second place, Waley was a master at evoking an atmosphere, a feeling tone, that strikes one as authentically Chinese.  So good was he at this that one sometimes gets the feeling, as one does when reading the poems of that other remarkable and far greater genius, the poet Emily Dickinson, a woman whose mind also had a very Chinese cast, that they must have been Chinese souls who had somehow strayed and ended up reincarnating in Western bodies.<br />My remark about Emily Dickinson's 'Chinese-ness' may raise some eyebrows.  Perhaps it takes a certain amount of exposure to Eastern culture, particularly to Buddhist thought, to see this quality in her, but I find it everywhere.  I find it, for example, in lines such as these, slightly adjusted since they should be set out as poetry :<br />&quot;I cross till I am weary / A Mountain - in my mind - / More Mountains - then a Sea - / More Seas - And then / A Desert find -&quot; (J550).<br />It is into this strange dreamscape in which a solitary figure moves through a vast, enigmatic, obstacle-filled, wearying land that, a few lines later, &quot;Asiatic Rains&quot; arrive to work their effect.<br />Perhaps it might not be too fanciful to suggest that the rains from the  East which bring relief, and even understanding, to Emily Dickinson's persona in poem J550 can be equated with Waley's poems, poems which drifted through the Chinese sky of his mind to bring something needful to the &quot;Desert&quot;  of the modern Western sensibility.  Perhaps this was the real reason  for his great success - he brought something that was missing from the mechanized and arid Western spirit, something that we all inwardly  yearn for that has been lost in the West but that the Eastern tradition can provide in abundance.<br />I don't know, but whatever the case, Waley's Chinese poems do have a truly magical effect on all readers.  Once you have been exposed to them you can never forget them.<br />The particular beauty of Waley's style, a style which despite its age still strikes one as modern, can be seen in a poem such as  Po Chu-I's 'Passing T'ien-men Street in Ch'ang-an and Seeing a Distant View of Chung-nan Mountain,' a poem which has always been one of my favorites.  It reads:<br />&quot;The snow has gone from Chung-nan; spring is almost come. / Lovely in the distance its blue colours, against the brown of the streets. /  A thousand coaches, ten thousand horsemen pass down the Nine Roads; / Turns his head and looks at the mountains, - not one man!&quot;<br />Here is the infinitely precious color and marvel of a Nature that is blazing with life and beauty and consciousness, sadly set over against  a busy-ness that is also ours, an obsession and total involvement  exclusively with people and their multifarious doings that blinds us - a mindset that leads us to overlook the universe, to pass it by like Po Chu-I's horsemen without even noticing it.<br />Waley's Chinese poems captivate us.  They are a gentle rain which trickles down to bathe and refresh the roots of our mind.  I envy those who are coming to them for the first time.st that the rains from the  East which bring relief, and even understanding, to Emily Dickinson's persona in poem J550 can be equated with Waley's poems, poems which drifted through the Chinese sky of his mind to bring something needful to the &quot;Desert&quot;  of the modern Western sensibility.  Perhaps this was the real reason  for his great success - he brought something that was missing from the mechanized and arid Western spirit, something that we all inwardly  yearn for that has been lost in the West but that the Eastern tradition can provide in abundance.<br />I don't know, but whatever the case, Waley's Chinese poems do have a truly magical effect on all readers.  Once you have been exposed to them you can never forget them.  <br />The particular beauty of Waley's style, a style which despite its age still strikes one as modern, can be seen in a poem such as  Po Chu-I's 'Passing T'ien-men Street in Ch'ang-an and Seeing a Distant View of Chung-nan Mountain,' a poem which has always been one of my favorites.  It reads:<br />&quot;The snow has gone from Chung-nan; spring is almost come. / Lovely in the distance its blue colours, against the brown of the streets. /  A thousand coaches, ten thousand horsemen pass down the Nine Roads; / Turns his head and looks at the mountains, - not one man!&quot;<br />Here is the infinitely precious color and marvel of a Nature that is blazing with life and beauty and consciousness, sadly set over against  a busy-ness that is also ours, an obsession and total involvement  exclusively with people and their multifarious doings that blinds us - a mindset that leads us to overlook the universe, to pass it by like Po Chu-I's horsemen without even noticing it.  <br />Waley's Chinese poems captivate us.  They are a gentle rain which trickles down to bathe and refresh the roots of our mind.  I envy those who are coming to them for the first time.	2001-05-12
US	50869571	R2J0G1K4PA9GFO	0877733880	853447727	Lao Tzu: Tao Te Ching (Asian Institute Translations)	Books	5	69	74	N	N	A stripped-down edition for beginners, with a bonus.	Anyone who may be looking for a stripped-down edition of the Tao Te Ching, one without Introduction, Commentaries, or Footnotes, so that one may immediately come to grips with this most fascinating and profound of texts without any distracting impedimenta at all, could hardly do better than get hold of a copy of this book.<br />A brief description of its translator, Dr John C. H. Wu, will be found  in the Introduction to Red Pine's 'Lao-tzu's Taoteching.'  From Red Pine, who attended a graduate course on the Tao Te Ching given by Dr Wu at the College of Chinese Culture in Taiwan many years ago,  we learn that he was a person of considerable attainments.<br />Besides translating the Tao Te Ching, Dr Wu also translated the New Testament, drafted his country's constitution, and served as China's ambassador to the Vatican and it's chief representative to the Hague.  Clearly we are dealing here, not with some sort of 'mystical' dreamer, but with an accomplished scholar, diplomat, and man of the world,  and one who must have realized the world has never stood in greater  need of Lao Tzu's religion of peace than it does in our present era of aggression.<br />After a brief Foreword, and a couple of pages of Editor's Notes, we are immediately confronted by the text.  Here is an example of Dr Wu's style from the opening of Chapter 29, slightly adjusted since it should be set out as poetry:<br />&quot;Does anyone want to take the world and do what he wants with it? / I do not see how he can succeed. // The world is a sacred vessel,  which must not be tampered with or grabbed after. /  To tamper with  it is to spoil it, and to grasp it is to lose it&quot; (page 59).<br />In the present age of manipulators both great and small, could there be any more apt words for us than these?  And could they have been expressed more effectively?  One doubts it.<br />But it gets better.  Classical Chinese is an extremely rich language, a language of multiple meanings.  No English translation, no matter how good - and Dr Wu's is very good indeed - could possibly hope to capture more than a fraction of the meaning inherent in the Chinese text.  Given this, we see the hand of the diplomat at work in Dr Wu's next move, for facing each page of the English translation he has given us Wang Pi's edition of the original Chinese text.<br />Evidently Dr Wu went to some pains to present us with a truly striking version of this text, for we are told that it is reproduced from the Lao Chieh Lao edition compiled by Ts'ai T'ing Kan, and privately printed in 1922.  It would seem we have been given a collector's item, and it is certainly one of the most beautifully printed Chinese texts of the Tao Te Ching that I have ever seen.<br />The traditional full-form Chinese characters are printed in a large, clear, bold font, and even a beginner, after a week's study of the Chinese radicals, would have no trouble at all making out the structure of even the more complex characters.  Somehow I get the feeling that  Dr Wu would like YOU to become that beginner...<br />There is of course enough to keep anyone busy pondering for years in any competent English translation of the Tao Te Ching.  But for those who may find themselves stirred by the visual beauty of the Chinese characters, each of which is an exquisitely balanced and supreme work of art, and who may be curious to learn more about them and how they work and what they mean, there are a number of books that would help.<br />One of them is the 'Gate of All Marvelous Things : A Guide to Reading the Tao Te Ching' by Gregory C. Richter.  This is an interlinear edition of the Tao Te Ching which gives the Chinese text in simplified characters, pinyin transliterations, a literal word-by-word gloss and  a final translation.  By means of this book you can learn to read the original, or some of your favorite passages, in Chinese.<br />I think that if one or two of you were so impelled, Dr Wu would be left feeling very happy indeed.He seems to be a man with a keen desire to share the most important and beautiful things he has found  in life.indeed.  He seems to be a man with a keen desire to share the most important and beautiful things he has found  in life.	2001-05-11
US	50869571	R3MRVA6BKZSGED	0802150853	995916679	The Way and Its Power: Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching and Its Place in Chinese Thought (UNESCO collection of representative works)	Books	5	73	77	N	N	By a translator of genius with much to teach us all.	The full title of the present book is: 'THE WAY AND ITS POWER - A Study of the TAO TE CHING and Its Place in Chinese Thought by ARTHUR WALEY. The book, which was first published in 1934 and has often been reprinted, besides containing a study of the historical and intellectual background, also contains a complete translation of the Tao Te Ching.    Waley, who was one of the great Sinologists of the twentieth century, is perhaps better known to most as a translator of Chinese poetry. His 'Translations from the Chinese,' the book which contains, among other treasures, the marvelous poems of T'ao Ch'ien, Po Chu-I, and Wang Wei, has been reissued many times.  And although we have seen other excellent translations of Chinese poetry from writers such as A. C. Graham, Kenneth Rexroth, and Gary Snyder, none of them have had the impact of Waley.  Chinese poetry, for most, is and always will  mean Arthur Waley.  His influence has been overwhelming.    I would attribute his enormous success to two things.  In the first place, there is the very special quality of his English, a quality impossible to describe.  In the second place, Waley was a master at evoking an atmosphere, a feeling tone, that strikes one as authentically Chinese.  So good was he at this that one sometimes gets the feeling, as one does when reading the poems of Emily Dickinson (whose mind had a very Chinese cast), that they must have been Chinese souls who had somehow strayed and ended up reincarnating in Western bodies.      The particular beauty of Waley's style, a style which despite its age still strikes one as modern, will also be found at work in the present book.  The book falls into two parts.  The first gives us a 100-page Introduction which covers such topics as The Hedonists, Quietism, The Language Crisis, The Realists, The Mystic Basis of Realism, The Tao Te Ching, The Sheng, The Literary Methods of the Book, and the Author.  Then follow six Appendices which treat of such matters as Authorship inEarly China, Foreign Influence,  Taoist Yoga, Text and Commentaries, etc.  Then comes the translation itself, after which Waley rounds out the book with some Additional  Notes and an Index.    Waley's translations of each Chapter of the Tao Te Ching are followed either by a Paraphrase, a brief Commentary, or, in most cases, simply a few footnotes.  The notes are brief, practical, and invariably helpful, and are designed to assist both the general reader and those with access to the Chinese text to arrive at a better understanding of the text.  Waley's approach, in other words, has a distinctly old-world and British feel, and is designed to appeal, not to the pedant or technical specialist, but to gentlemen and gentlemen scholars, and  ladies also, who are seriously interested in understanding the thought  of Lao Tzu. Chapter XLIII gives us a good example of Waley's style and basic procedure:    \\"What is of all things most yielding   Can overwhelm that which is of all things most hard.   Being substanceless it can enter even where there is no space;   That is how I know the value of action that is actionless.   But that there can be teaching without words,   Value in action that is actionless,   Few indeed can understand.\\"    Readers are referred to the book itself for Waley's two brief  informative notes on these lines.    Waley, who mastered both Chinese and Japanese, but who wisely refused to visit the East for obvious reasons, was undoubtedly something of a genius, and he has much to teach us all.  His edition can be recommended with confidence to anyone who is looking for a study of Ancient Chinese thought along with an uncluttered, authoritative, and readable version  of the Tao Te Ching.	2001-05-11
US	50869571	R3I4C4L7FGYMUZ	0804818134	874144029	Tao Te Ching: The Book of the Way and Its Virtue (Wisdom of the East)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A fine translation by a responsible and competent scholar.	Particulars of the present book and its author are as follows: 'Tao Te Ching - The Book of the Way and Its Virtue.  Translated from the Chinese and Annotated by J. J. L. DUYVENDAK  Phil.D.(Leyden), Hon.Litt.D.(Oxon), Hon.Litt.D. (Princeton).  Professor of Chinese in the University of Leyden.'<br />Clearly Professor Duyvendak is eminently qualified for the task of offering Western readers a responsible and authoritative translation of a text which, despite its brevity, ranks in importance with both the Bible and the Bhagavad Gita and in some ways is deeper than either.  <br />The Tao Te Ching will always prove irresistible to Sinologists, whether professional or amateur, and there must be well over one hundred English translations in existence.  The widely divergent interpretations these translations can offer must often be a source of puzzlement to the non-specialist reader.  <br />Some of the differences we find between the works of competent scholars have perfectly legitimate reasons which can be understood by anyone who takes the trouble to familiarize themselves with the way classical Chinese works.  Others, however, are the product of incompetence, and     Professor Duyvendak cautions us that there &quot;exists a multitude of so-called translations made by people who try to make up for their entirely imaginary or extremely elementary knowledge of classical Chinese by philosophical speculations which are often completely foreign to the Chinese spirit&quot; (page 1).  <br />Clearly we cannot be too careful in our choice of a translator. Dilettantes and dabblers are thick on the ground, and this would seem  to be one of the reasons Professor Duyvendak undertook his own translation - out of a sense of responsibility and a desire to act as  a counterweight.  <br />Many modern Sinologists seem to take up permanent residence on the higher levels of their ivory towers, and would never think of condescending to devote their energies to the needs of the non-specialist.One is extremely grateful to Professor Duyvendak for having come out to talk to us.<br />Although his own translation is now a little old, it has always been  held in high respect by the cognoscenti.  And despite the fact that  he himself was not a native speaker of English, you certainly wouldn't  know it from his translation.  Also, as a competent and mature scholar, his work still has a great deal to offer to all serious students, and it is often cited in the best studies.  <br />It was in fact the frequency of these references to Duyvendak that led me to his book. His translation differs from others in that it is based &quot;upon a critical reconstruction of the entire text,&quot; and advanced students may find  some of his textual rearrangements, on which he worked for many years, quite illuminating.<br />After a brief and extremely interesting 15-page Introduction, we are given his translations of each Chapter in a simple, clear, and vigorous English which reads very well.  Here is how he tackles Chapter 47, slightly adjusted since it should be set out as verse:<br />&quot;To know All-under-heaven without going out of doors! / Without peeping out of the window, to see the Way of Heaven! / The further one goes out, the less one knows. / Therefore:  the Saint knows without travelling, names (things) without seeing them, achieves without acting&quot; (page 107).<br />Noteworthy here is his use of &quot;Saint&quot; rather than the more usual &quot;Sage,&quot; a usage commented on by Ellen M. Chen in her own superb edition of the Tao Te Ching (Page 22).  Duyvendak makes the interesting comment in his Introduction that, although he usually translates &quot;Te&quot; as &quot;Virtue,&quot; in older texts such as the Tao Te Ching &quot;the word should not be understood so much in an ethical sense as in a magical one.  'Te' originally is magic power&quot; (page 8).  All of this begins to make a lot more sense when we realize, as Red Pine remarks in his 'Taoteching,' that &quot;it was written by a man who was no stranger to shamanistic  conceptions of the sacred world....  [Also], as Confucius noted, Lao-tzu was a dragon among men and ... a member of the serpent family&quot; (pages xiii, xvii).<br />Professor Duyvendak's brief though helpful and elucidatory Notes follow the translations, and the book concludes with a useful Appendix of the characters of all the Chinese words quoted in the Notes.  Throughout he seems to have been especially concerned to keep the needs of the general reader in mind.  <br />No great expertise is needed to tackle this book, and I can recommend it to anyone who wants a good and authoritative edition of the Tao Te Ching.  Unfortunately it seems to  be out-of-print, but perhaps you'll get lucky and find a used copy as  I did.  It belongs in the collection of all serious students.	2001-05-11
US	50869571	R3KHP1W8HP8QZ	0679600604	969582230	Te-Tao Ching (Modern Library)	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Will appeal to all Tao Te Ching enthusiasts.	The full title of the present book is: 'LAO-TZU TE-TAO CHING: A New Translation Based on the Recently Discovered Ma-wang-tui Texts, Translated, with an introduction and commentary, by Robert G. Henricks.'<br />Those who haven't the foggiest idea what the Ma-wang-tui Texts are, should betake themselves to Red Pine's translation of 'Lao-tzu's Taoteching,' a book far more suited to the beginner, where they will find a very clear explanation on pages xvii-xviii.  The present book is more for the advanced student, and preferably one who knows a little Classical Chinese.<br />Red Pine tells us that two copies of the Tao Te Ching were discovered in Ma-wang-tui in 1973 which had been brush-written on silk over two thousand years earlier, buried with a nobleman along with other of his prized possessions, and that they were in a remarkable state of preservation. <br />Here was something to fire the imagination of all Tao Te Ching scholars, whether amateur or professional, an innocent class of folks who, rather than plotting such things as the overthrow of the state, prefer to busy themselves with puzzling over the minute textual differences between the various recensions of the Tao Te Ching and deciding for themselves what Lao Tzu - who may or may not have been an actual person - really meant. <br />The Ma-wang-tui discovery was a bonanza for such folks, for although the differences between the received text/s and the newly unearthed manuscripts were minute, they were many.  And what was most wonderful of all, the MW manuscripts had been brushed in the wrong order, with the received Part I (Chapters 1-37) on Tao coming last, and Part II  (Chapters 38-79) on Te coming first.  <br />Gleefully seizing on this unprecedented and amazing factoid, our hearty band of TTC scholars, both amateur and professional, formally declared that the texts of the MW manuscripts were henceforth to be known, not as the Tao Te Ching (TTC) but as the Te Tao Ching (TTC), and that they should be printed in that order.  Such are the ways of the delightful species to which we have the honor of belonging.  Those who are bothered by the new order have a simple remedy at hand - read the last Part first and the first Part last.<br />Professor Henricks' edition of the TTC, after a brief though interesting Introduction of just 20 pages, consists of two parts.  In the first part we are given the bare English text of his very fine and readable (though occasionally wordy) translation, wholly uncluttered by scholarly impedimenta, and it's a great pleasure to read.<br />In the second part Professor Henricks' brings out his big guns, and we are given another copy of the English translation we have just read, but this time lineated, and accompanied with full philological Comments   and Notes, with, on facing pages, the Chinese texts of the two MW Texts A and B, punctuated as in the manuscripts, and with many of the usual tiny empty square blocks to indicate lost or illegible characters. These little blocks measure precisely 3mm x 3mm, and I shall touch on  the significance of this later.  <br />Since more of Text B has been lost than of Text A, the translation is based mainly upon Text A, helped out occasionally with bits and pieces from B.  But it gets better.  For - yes, you guessed it - Texts A and B are not exactly the same!  You can imagine the dizzying complications that have resulted from this, more than enough to keep TTC-ites happily scribbling away for at least a century.  Professor Henricks' scholarly edition of the MW Texts is rounded out with a section of Additional Notes, and with a 6-page Bibliography.<br />I have only two criticisms.  The first is that the Chinese on each facing page of Part 2 is printed in such an incredibly miniscule  3mm x 3 mm font that it is impossible to make out the structure of unfamiliar complex characters without recourse to a magnifier of some sort.  <br />The Chinese text, in other words, can be barely readable, and on some pages takes up only five percent or so of the total area so that we are left with large areas of totally blank space, more than enough in which to have printed a large, bold, and clear Chinese text - if only someone had given a thought to our eyes, and to our not-always optimal lighting conditions.  Publishers might note that every Chinese character is  an *exquisitely balanced and supreme work of art* and was intended to  be writ BOLD.<br />My second criticism has to do with the Bibliography, where all Chinese names and book titles are given only in romanized form, which means that they might as well not have been given at all.  No less a luminary than the eminent British scientist and Sinologist, Professor Joseph Needham, in his magisterial multi-volume 'Science and Civilization in China,' has pointed out that it is an extreme discourtesy to omit the Chinese graphs (ideograms, characters) from bibliographical descriptions, since even native Chinese scholars will often be totally baffled by the results.  Also it's easy enough to add the characters in a separate list at the end, as Professor Ellen M. Chen has done in her superb edition of the TTC.  ... <br />All in all then, though not an edition for the beginner, Professor Henricks' TTC is one calculated to appeal to all TTC enthusiasts and other specialists, who ought certainly to consider adding it to their libraries.  The English reads well, the notes are interesting, and it's fun to explore the Chinese MW Texts provided you keep a magnifier handy.	2001-05-11
US	50869571	RFY4SUK2VFPFS	1562790854	852924161	Lao-tzu's Taoteching: with Selected Commentaries of the Past 2000 Years	Books	5	116	127	N	N	The only Tao Te Ching you may ever need.	Anyone looking for an approachable edition of the Tao Te Ching, one that gives us the Chinese and Taoist point-of-view in clear and simple English, and that isn't overburdened with extraneous or purely scholarly matter, should certainly consider that of Red Pine. The translator has spent much of his life in the East, has experienced the life of a Taoist ascetic, and we could ask for no better guide to the meanings of this simple but elusive text, a text that is one of the greatest glories of the Ancient Chinese literature of the Chou period.<br />As many know, Classical Chinese is an extremely concise and powerful language, a language of great masculine vigor, and one of the first things to look for in any translation from Classical Chinese is a comparable economy and energy.  Some people don't seem to understand this, and I think it's because they fail to realize that words, besides expressing meaning, can also serve to limit meaning, especially in grammatically fussy Indo-European languages such as English where sentences are intended to convey as precise a meaning as possible and  in doing so can become (as mine are here) rather wordy.<br />But ancient Chinese writing isn't like this.  Rather than attempting to narrow and delimit meaning, and to pin us down to something particular and explicit, it aims instead to open and expand our understanding.  In other words, although it can look deceptively simple, it is in fact richly suggestive, rich in  implications.  And this rich suggestiveness will suggest many things to different readers.  That is why no Chinese reader would even think of approaching an ancient classic without a commentary.  For no matter what a text may suggest to a given reader, we may be sure that it has suggested many more things to earlier and possibly more acute readers.<br />Red Pine does not fail us on either of these counts.  His translation is spare, pure, even austere, but whereas most English editions of the Tao Te Ching give us only thecomments of the individual translator, Red Pine has gone one further.  He has had the brilliant idea of giving us, on pages facing the text, a selection of passages from over twenty of China's most outstanding commentators, figures ranging from the famous philosopher Wang Pi (+ 226-249) through to the Sung Dynasty Taoist nun Ts'ao Tao-Ch'ung (+ 960-1278), and this is something which has never been done before in English.<br />Red Pine tells us that he &quot;envisioned this book as a discussion between Lao-tzu and a group of people who have thought deeply about his text&quot; (page xxi).  Many of the comments, which are intended &quot;to provide important background information or insights,&quot; are truly luminous, and to read them along with the text can be an overwhelming experience.<br />Here is Chapter 47 of Red Pine's translation, slightly rearranged since it should be set out as verse: &quot;Without going out his door / he knows the whole world / without looking out his window / he knows the Way of Heaven / the farther people go / the less people know / therefore the sage knows without moving / names without seeing / succeeds without trying.&quot; (page 94).<br />I was led to ponder this particular passage by Ingo Swann, the noted US exponent of Remote Viewing, who quotes it in one of his writings. The chapter itself, for anyone who knows anything at all about Remote Viewing, is powerfully suggestive.  But the comments (which really need to be read in full to be properly savored) add even more.<br />The first comment which struck me was that of Su Ch'e, who tells us that &quot;The reason the sages of the past understood everything without going anywhere was simply because they kept their natures whole&quot; (page 94). The second remarkable comment was that of Ch'eng Hsuan Ying, which reads in part: &quot;'without trying' means to focus the spirit on the tranquility that excels at making things happen&quot; (page 95).<br />But doesn't all this suggest that superpowers, as Ingo Swann asserts, are part of everyone's inheritance as a human being?  Doesn't it also suggest a getting in touch with the Collective Unconsciousness? the Universal Mind? The ONE? The TAO?  And isn't this in fact what Remote Viewers such as Ingo Swann have rediscovered today?  Have we, in other words, finally begun to re-acquire something of the lost Wisdom  of the Ancients...?  It would certainly seem so to me.<br />Besides the excellent translation and valuable commentaries, Red Pine has thoughtfully given us, printed vertically alongside the English translation, the Chinese text in full form characters.  This text, it should be noted, is the translator's own new and original recension, and is based on a careful study of the many extant editions of the Tao Te Ching including that discovered at Mawangtui in 1973.<br />Red Pine's edition also comes with a map; an informative 12-page historical introduction; several interesting photographs among which is one of the Mawangtui text; and a very full bilingual glossary of Chinese names and terms.  My one criticism is that, although Red Pine often refers us to specific lines (e.g., &quot;In line sixteen...&quot;), line numbers have not been printed alongside either the English or the Chinese texts and it can sometimes take time to locate the line he's talking about.<br />Although intended for a popular readership, Red Pine's edition, which I believe was out-of-print for a while, is certainly scholarly in the best sense of the word.  The wise would be well advised to snap up a copy before it goes out-of-print again.  It may be the only Tao Te Ching you will ever need.	2001-05-10
US	50869571	R36GAH5LI4A3Z1	1557782385	507845302	Tao Te Ching: A New Translation with Commentary	Books	5	94	95	N	N	Arriving as Guests to a Banquet.	The Tao Te Ching: A New Translation With Commentary. Translated and edited by Ellen M. Chen. New York: Paragon House, 1989. Paperback, 274 pages. ISBN 1557782385    Although I must have collected upwards of twenty different editions of the Tao Te Ching over the years, Ellen M. Chen's has always stood at the top of my list and it's a shame this truly wonderful edition isn't better known.    Chen, who is a Professor of Philosophy at St. John's University in Jamaica, New York, is not your usual sort of scholar, the type who views ancient wisdom texts as a mere quarry for materials.  In contrast to the sterile type of academic who pride themselves on a purely illusory 'scientific objectivity,' Chen is a dynamic and  concerned personality who seems utterly committed to trying to get the world to see the fantastic importance and value of the Tao Te Ching.    For her, in fact, the wisdom of the Tao Te Ching is a wisdom that could save us from the utter ruin the human race is heading for, if only we would start to take that wisdom seriously.  Hers is a wise, well-written, thoroughly researched work which rises way above the usual run of scholarship, and it is far too rich for me to be able  to do justice to it here.    Briefly the work falls into three parts.  First we are given a full and quite unique 48-page Introduction in three chapters: 1. Date and Authorship of the Tao Te Ching; 2. The Tao Te Ching as a Religious Treatise; and 3. Use and Translation of the Text.  Chapter 2, which is divided into six sections, is a minor masterpiece, and even if you don't intend to acquire the book, you should certainly read her 'Humans Become Gods on Earth,' 'Two Pseudo-Religions of the Twentieth Century,' and 'Religion For or Against Life' (pages 31-39). Here in a nutshell you will find her striking analysis of the essence of the modern problem, and its solution.  I often return to her words, and I wish there were some way of getting everyone in the world to both read them and take them to heart.    The second and main part of the work is made up of her New Translation and Commentary.  For each Chapter of the Tao Te Ching we are given: 1. A translation with interspersed key terms given in Chinese; 2. A brief General Comment on the import of the chapter; and 3. Very full and valuable detailed comments.  Chen is a well-qualified scholar and highly competent translator, and her work reads very well indeed. Here is a brief example from Chapter 32 (page 133):    Tao everlasting (ch'ang)  is the nameless uncarved wood (p'u).  Though small,  Nothing under heaven can subjugate it (mo neng ch'en).  If kings and barons can abide by (shou) it,  All creatures will arrive as guests (pin) to a banquet.     Her interspersing of the Chinese is a marvelous device, and provides a painless way of aquiring a vocabulary of key Chinese terms.  The third part of the book, besides containing a full and scholarly 13-page Bibliography of both Western and Chinese sources along with an index, also contains a detailed 12-page Chinese glossary which gives the romanization and Chinese graphs (characters, ideograms) for all Chinese names and terms used in the book.    The Tao of Ellen Chen is evident everywhere throughout this book, and she has placed a splendid banquet before us.  It is a banquet to which we have all been invited.  I'm certainly glad I didn't miss it.	2001-05-10
US	50869571	R1BOYXHRMF3IE8	1891688006	148031380	Gate of All Marvelous Things : A Guide to Reading the Tao Te Ching	Books	5	33	37	N	N	An invaluable tool for those studying Classical Chinese.	Readers who are unfamiliar with Classical Chinese are sometimes frankly puzzled as to why different translators, working on the same text, can come up with such widely differing translations.  But to fully understand why this can happen, it would of course be necessary to learn Chinese.  <br />Basically it has to do with the fact that the grammar of Ancient Chinese is as yet  imperfectly understood.  Another important reason is that the Chinese character or graph cannot really be equated with an English  'word' - they're very different animals.  English words can change their form, as in 'run, runs, running, ran,' but graphs have a fixed form and can't do this. <br />Additionally, graphs will often have a far wider range of meanings than English words.  This makes for a language with richer connotations.  It's a beautiful language and I don't think that anyone who may be thinking of taking it up will be sorry if they do.  Everyone should have at least a little Chinese.  Even a little can provide a lot of fun.<br />One of the reasons I've always loved Classical Chinese is because it's an extremely concise and powerful language, a language of great masculine vigor, and one of the first things I look for in any translation from Classical Chinese is a comparable economy and energy. Some people don't seem to understand this, and I think it's because they fail to realize that words, besides expressing meaning, can also serve to limit meaning, especially in grammatically fussy Indo-European languages such as English where sentences are intended to convey as precise a meaning as possible and in doing so can become (as mine are here) rather wordy.<br />But ancient Chinese writing isn't like this. Rather than attempting to narrow and delimit meaning, and to pin us down to something particular and explicit, it aims instead to open and expand our understanding. In other words, although it can look deceptively simple, it is in fact richly suggestive, rich in implications. And this rich suggestiveness will generate many different meanings in the minds of different readers.  <br />Proof of this can readily be found by anyone who takes the trouble to compare a few translations of the Tao Te Ching.  Those who cannot consult the actual Chinese text will, as I've mentioned, often find themselves puzzled by these differences.  What they fail to understand is that, whereas the English ideal is to express one and one thing only, the Chinese strategy is to express many meanings simultaneously.  And this is where  Professor Gregory C. Richter's text comes in.<br />Professor Richter has provided an invaluable service to all who are interested in Classical Chinese.  Whether you only want to check up on an occasional passage of the Tao Te Ching, or whether you want to learn Chinese inductively by memorizing an actual text, or whether you are taking a formal course and simply want some supplementary study material, or whether you are just plain curious, Richter's text will prove invaluable.    Not only has he given us the Chinese graphs in a well-printed large  clear font which makes them easy to read (though I wish he had used the traditional full forms rather than the modern simplified forms), but he also provides the pinyin transliteration for each graph, a detailed interlinear graph-by-graph gloss, and a final English translation. <br />Considering what an important language Chinese is, there really ought to be far more texts like Professor Richter's, and he certainly deserves our gratitude for creating such an invaluable tool.  My advice to the interested would be to snap it up before it goes out of print.<br />One thing he has not provided is instruction in the all-important art of writing graphs (characters, ideograms) correctly.  This too is huge fun, and can be an enormous source of satisfaction.  For an excellent manual that will teach you how to write Chinese characters beautifully with  a pen, you might check out: 'Learn to Write Chinese Characters' (Yale Language Series) by Johan Bjorksten.  His models are superb.<br />Another book I can strongly recommend is 'Sound and Symbol in Chinese' (Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press, Revised Edition 1971 [1962]), by the renowned Swedish Sinologist Bernhard Karlgren.  This is a short and truly excellent introduction, in just 98 pages, which covers: The Ancient Language; Word Formation; The Script; Syntax; and Rhetoric.   The book has a fine concluding section of Bibliographical Notes with sections on: Grammar; Phonetics and history of the language; Dictionaries; Script; History of Literature; Standard translations; General Works of Reference, Periodicals, etc.  Unfortunately it appears  at the moment to be out-of-print, but you may find a copy in the library.	2001-05-10
US	50869571	R1NF4L98EURXV0	0812691296	689861322	The Universal Gita: Western Images of the Bhagavad Gita a Bicentenary Survey	Books	3	14	17	N	N	The Gold in the Gita	We learn from the jacket of this book that Eric Sharpe, at the time he wrote it, was Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Sydney, Australia. Apparently he is a leading scholarly authority on religion, and he has written many books on New Testament Studies, Indian cultural history, Hinduism, the Christian missionary impact on India, Scandinavian religious life, and general theological issues.<br />The present book, as its subtitle informs us, is a historical survey of &quot;Western Images of the Bhagavad Gita.&quot; As such, it ought to be of interest to anyone who would like to learn about the various influences the Gita has had on the West since it was first translated by Charles Wilkins in 1785.<br />As befits a scholarly publication, 'The Universal Gita' includes a preface, an introduction, footnotes, glossary, bibliography and index. The body of the book falls into two Parts: Part One: 1785-1885, and Part Two: 1885-1985. <br />To give you some idea of the contents, the chapter titles are as follows: Part One: 1 - The First Translation; 2 - Romantics and Transcendentalists; 3 - Missionaries and Mystics; 4 - Theories of Origin; Part Two: 5 - Renaissance, Radicalism and Theosophy; 6 - Gandhi's Gita; 7 - Rudolf Otto, J. W. Hauer, and T. S. Eliot; 8 - The Gita and the Counter-Culture; 9 - Ethical Monotheism and Social Caste.<br />On the surface of it, what we have here is a thorough and scholarly survey, and I won't deny that the book contains a great deal of useful information about the interesting period covered.  What we will not find in this book, however, is a sensitive and sympathetic understanding of the nature of the Gita for Professor Sharpe, sad to say, has precious little sympathy for anyone who actually takes the Gita seriously.<br />His intense bias against the Gita, and against those who try to read it in the way it was intended to be read as telling us something very important about life and reality, comes out very clearly in his style.Although he is, in a sense, an excellent writer, one can hardly admire a style which, as does his, makes such heavy use of propagandistic devices such as slanted language, loaded words, false analogies, flippancy, etc. <br />The book is also filled with puzzling statements. We are told, for example, that although the misguided youth of the sixties had some interest in the Gita, no-one today bothers to read it. Really? I wonder why an Amazon search under 'Bhagavad Gita' produces a list of almost two hundred editions and studies of the Gita? Have publishers cured themselves of the nasty habit of not publishing books that aren't being bought and read? <br />The proper use of the Gita is perfectly clear to Professor Sharpe. It exists to serve as a quarry for scholarly researchers who are interested in investigating &quot;the tough historical and textual questions&quot; (page 137) in the hope, presumably, of stumbling across some academic nugget which has been overlooked by others and which, with luck, they may be able to work up into a publishable article, or even another scholarly book. This, for Professor Sharpe, is the only gold to be found in the Gita.  Ordinary folks, unless of course they are Hindus, should not be bothering their heads with it.<br />Readers who would like to find an unbiased study of the Gita might  care to look at the philosophic treatment in Professor Eliot Deutsch's  edition (1968).  Another fine study is George Feuerstein's 'Introduction to the Bhagavad Gita - Its Philosophy and Cultural Setting' (1983).  Feuerstein is also a published scholar, but one who seems to have a deeper insight into the true nature of both the Gita  and at least some of the contemporary academic approaches to it.	2001-05-05
US	50869571	R12B1LX1M89HK6	0835607208	64242450	In Search of the Cradle of Civilization: New Light on Ancient India	Books	5	108	121	N	Y	Renders all previous studies of Ancient India obsolete.	George Feuerstein is an excellent writer who is always lively and has many fine books to his credit.  In the present book he and his two collaborators - Sanskritist Subhash Kak and Vedic scholar David Frawley - have set out to bring us up to speed on the true nature of Ancient India and the profound importance and continuing significance  of Indian thought for world civilization.<br /><br />By fully taking into account the mass of evidence which has been accumulating over the past century, evidence from archaeology, satellite surveys, linguistic studies, etc., which a Eurocentric and reactionary 'educational' establishment continues to ignore, the authors have written an exciting and revolutionary book which pretty well renders obsolete all previous studies of Ancient India.  In other words, it is  a book which clearly demonstrates that much of what we have been taught about Ancient India (and which our highly paid academics continue to teach) is complete nonsense.  But perhaps this will surprise no-one.<br /><br />The book falls into two parts.  In the first we learn that there was no such thing as an 'Aryan invasion' of India.  It is a myth based upon a few idle conjectures of Max Muller along with a couple of scraps of misinterpreted evidence, an ideology masquerading as historical 'fact' (as is so much else today) because it fitted in so well with the Imperialist ambitions and racialism of the West.<br /><br />India has always been multi-racial and multi-cultural, and the 'Aryans' were there all along.  The cities of Harappa and Mohenjo Daro were abandoned, not because of any supposed 'Aryan invasion,' but for the simple reason that the vast and sustaining Sarasvati river dried up c.1900 B.C., and the people of the Indus-Sarasvati civilization had to relocate further East to the region of the Ganges.<br /><br />The Indians have no memory of an 'Aryan invasion.'  There is no evidence of an invasion and no sign of the cultural break that such an invasion would have caused.  On the contrary, India exhibits a striking continuity of culture which qualifies it as the world's oldest living continuous civilization, and one that stretches back to at least 6000 B.C, if not much further.<br /><br />As portrayed by the authors, the rich and highly advanced Indus-Sarasvati civilization - a civilization of sages, priests, philosophers, scientists, mathematicians, musicians, astronomers, artists, architects, engineeers, navigators, artisans, farmers and merchants covered an area of over 300,000 square miles (in contrast  to Ancient Egypt's 15,000 square miles and Sumer's even smaller area).  It held over 2500 settlements, towns, and cities, and conducted an extensive commerce with Arabia, Africa, and the Middle East.  Also, where influences can be determined, they flowed, not from West to East but from East to West.  In short, pace Sumerian scholar Samuel Noah Kramer, everything did not begin in Sumer.  It was neither Sumer nor Egypt that was the cradle of civilization.  It was India.<br /><br />Chapter 9, 'Why the Aryan Invasion Never Happened: Seventeen Arguments,' summarizes and concludes Part I of the book.  Part II, 'The Splendor of Ancient India: Its Cultural and Spiritual Legacy' provides a stimulating overview of the spiritual heritage of Ancient India, the birth of science, the astronomical basis of the Vedic myths, the powerful and long-continuing influence of India on the West, and the Vedas and Perennial Wisdom.<br /><br />We learn that the Vedas are of staggering importance.  Far from being a mere collection of myths, they represent a crystallization,  in symbolic code, of the incredibly ancient wisdom of a balanced and harmonious civilization in which science and religion were not, as with us, opposed, but were mutually involved in the pursuit of truths which had the aim of bringing both man and society into harmony with the cosmos.<br /><br />Sadly the Vedas, written as they are in a difficult archaic Sanskrit, are littlestudied even in India, and are even less understood. Given the increasing degeneracy of modern civilization, it is a blessing that a handful of determined scholars have today set about extracting the knowledge from this precious repository that could, if rightly used, help restore us to sanity.<br /><br />One of the most appreciative interpreters of the Vedas today is the Roman Catholic priest and Professor of Religious Studies, Raimundo Panikkar, and readers are referred to his superb anthology of beautifully translated extracts with detailed commentaries, [[ASIN:8120812808 The Vedic Experience: Mantramanjari (an Anthology of the Vedas for Modern Man...]].<br /><br />Here is a brief extract.  It clearly shows a quality of sensibility that we have lost and something of what we must relearn from \\"the treasures of Asian understanding\\" if, in the words of British scholar, scientist, and sinologist Joseph Needham,  \\"our civilization [is not] to go down in history as distorted and evil\\" (p.167):<br /><br />\\"Now Dawn with her earliest light shines forth,<br />beloved of the Sky,<br />Fresh from her toilet, conscious of her beauty,<br />she emerges visible for all to see.<br />Dawn, Daughter of Heaven, lends us her lustre,<br />dispersing all shadows of malignity,<br />Arousing from deep slumber all that lives,<br />stirring to motion man and beast and bird,<br />This maiden infringes not the Eternal Law,<br />day after day coming to the place appointed\\" (Panikkar, pages 164-65).<br /><br />Sanskrit and English belong to the same family of languages, and we naturally resonate with family.  Official spokesmen of a Eurocentric West continue to promote the arrogant and wholly false belief that  \\"we have nothing to learn from the East.\\"  A few hours spent with Feuerstein, Kak, and Frawley's timely and significant study will soon convince you of the foolishness of such a notion.  Don't miss  this fascinating and extremely important book.<br /><br />Another book that is highly relevant to this issue is that of the Indian scholar Shrikant G. Talageri, [[ASIN:8185689407 Aryan Invasion Theory (A Reappraisal)]]. Using the latest findings of comparative linguistics and archaeology, he has taken on the 'invasionists' or proponents of the Invasion Theory, effectively demolished their case, and established that northern India is the original home of the Indo-European family of languages.<br /><br />His is an extremely well-written and well-researched book that anyone who is at all interested in India's history would find fascinating. The author later went on to write a second book, [[ASIN:8177420100 Rigveda: A Historical Analysis]], which so powerfully reinforced his thesis that Harvard University wrote to him and offered him a \\"fully-paid scholarship\\" if he would agree henceforth to be \\"flexible\\" in his views (p.vi, Preface to the First Reprint) as it seems he was making a certain invasionist very uncomfortable there. Happily for us the author, as an honorable man, refused, preferring truth over pelf and prestige.<br /><br />Would that the world held more such scholars as Feuerstein and Talageri!the increasing degeneracy of modern civilization, it is a blessing that a handful of determined scholars have today set about extracting the knowledge from this precious repository that could, if rightly used, help restore us to sanity.    One of the most appreciative interpreters of the Vedas today is the Roman Catholic priest and Professor of Religious Studies, Raimundo Panikkar, and readers are referred to his superb anthology of beautifully translated extracts with detailed commentaries, [[ASIN:8120812808 The Vedic Experience: Mantramanjari (an Anthology of the Vedas for Modern Man...]].    Here is a brief extract.  It clearly shows a quality of sensibility that we have lost and something of what we must relearn from \\"the treasures of Asian understanding\\" if, in the words of British scholar, scientist, and sinologist Joseph Needham,  \\"our civilization [is not] to go down in history as distorted and evil\\" (p.167):      \\"Now Dawn with her earliest light shines forth,  beloved of the Sky,  Fresh from her toilet, conscious of her beauty,  she emerges visible for all to see.  Dawn, Daughter of Heaven, lends us her lustre,  dispersing all shadows of malignity,  Arousing from deep slumber all that lives,  stirring to motion man and beast and bird,  This maiden infringes not the Eternal Law,  day after day coming to the place appointed\\" (Panikkar, pages 164-65).     Sanskrit and English belong to the same family of languages, and we naturally resonate with family.  Official spokesmen of a Eurocentric West continue to promote the arrogant and wholly false belief that  \\"we have nothing to learn from the East.\\"  A few hours spent with Feuerstein, Kak, and Frawley's timely and significant study will soon convince you of the foolishness of such a notion.  Don't miss  this fascinating and extremely important book.    Another book that is highly relevant to this issue is that of the Indian scholar Shrikant G. Talageri, [[ASIN:8185689407 Aryan Invasion Theory (A Reappraisal)]]. Using the latest findings of comparative linguistics and archaeology, he has taken on the 'invasionists' or proponents of the Invasion Theory, effectively demolished their case, and established that northern India is the original home of the Indo-European family of languages.    His is an extremely well-written and well-researched book that anyone who is at all interested in India's history would find fascinating. The author later went on to write a second book, [[ASIN:8177420100 Rigveda: A Historical Analysis]], which so powerfully reinforced his thesis that Harvard University wrote to him and offered him a \\"fully-paid scholarship\\" if he would agree henceforth to be \\"flexible\\" in his views (p.vi, Preface to the First Reprint) as it seems he was making a certain invasionist very uncomfortable there. Happily for us the author, as an honorable man, refused, preferring truth over pelf and prestige.    Would that the world held more such scholars as Feuerstein and Talageri!	2001-04-27
US	50869571	R1OAQTMX6F9L9N	0470235675	15562023	Free-Living Freshwater Protozoa: A Color Guide	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Notosolenus? or Petalomonas?	D. J. Patterson is a Professor of Biology at the University of Sydney, and although his book was written primarily for specialists as a guide to identifying approximately 350 of the most common kinds of freshwater protozoa, it also holds much that will be of real interest to the amateur naturalist. The book falls into three parts: an Introduction, the guide or Key, and concluding supplementary materials.<br />The 22-page Introduction covers such topics as: What protozoa are; Distinguishing protozoa from other microbes; How to choose and care for a microscope; Contrast enhancement; Techniques of microscopical examination; Drawing and photographing protozoa; Video microscopy; Where to find and how to collect protozoa; Keeping samples; etc. A great deal of useful and practical advice will be found in this Introduction, some of which I haven't seen elsewhere.<br />For example, in discussing microscopes Patterson suggests that phase contrast optics will allow the protozoologist who is observing living organisms &quot;to see more and to see it with ease,&quot; and that ideally phase contrast objectives should be used in preference to the bright-field (normal) variety (p.11). To illustrate the different kinds of visual information which different contrast enhancement techniques provide, he gives us, on pages 155-57, a fascinating series of photographs of the Paramecium bursaria as viewed under Bright-field, Phase contrast, Differential interference contrast, Dark ground, Interference contrast, Polarized light, Fluorescence microscopy, and various types of staining. The differences are striking.<br />I was also interested to note the author's concern for the welfare of these tiny and extremely delicate and fragile organisms while we are engaged in observing them. He warns us that &quot;Usually, active motility is a sign of distress. Typical causes might be pressure from a coverslip, overheating, or depletion of oxygen. The cells move until they find a more favorable site.&quot; And he advises us that &quot;The use of minimal illumination or gently blowing on a preparation as you observe it often 'calms' protozoa,&quot; thereby making them easier to observe (p.13). Other methods of limiting distress are also described, and great care should be taken not to heat the organism.<br />Following the Introduction we are given a 'Classification of protozoa,' line drawings of the main genera, and then the main part of the book, the step-by-step guide to identifying protozoa.<br />For each of the organisms covered in the book, the author gives a detailed description and bibliographical references, a color microphotograph (with the type of contrast enhancement used), line drawings which point up certain important features, and occasionally a detailed line drawing of the entire organism. The book concludes with line drawings of six Protozoan communities (Planktonic, Attached, Benthos, Organically rich benthos, Anoxic benthos, Sewage treatment plants), a 10-page Glossary of Terms, a scholarly Bibliography of over 400 items, and an index.<br />Dr Patterson's book is well-organized, easy to use, well-printed in double columns on 222 quarto size pages of high-quality glossy paper, stitched, bound in a waterproof wrapper, and sturdy enough to be taken into the field along with a field microscope such as the Swift FM-31-P40 LWD.<br />Although experts may find details to quibble about, speaking as an amateur I have only two criticisms of the book. The first is that the color microphotographs, although generally good, measure only 43mm x 70 mm and are far too small. Protozoa such as the Stentor (Fig. 216) or Tachysoma (Fig. 265) are among the most strikingly beautiful creations of Nature, and although Patterson's microphotography may not be quite up to the standards of a Werner Nachtigall, I get the feeling that he is a much better photographer than the tiny and rather average reproductions in this book would seem to suggest. All of the photographs are small, some are very dark, others not particularly clear, and few do full justice to either Nature's or, I suspect, Dr Patterson's own artistry, though together with the line drawings (most of which are are even tinier) they are adequate for purposes of identification. <br />My second criticism has to do with the very high price of the book, a price which one would have thought ought to have ensured a size and quality of color reproduction far superior to what we have been offered here. But despite its high price and its underwhelming reproductions of what must have been striking originals, this is a book which has much to offer any protozoa specialist or enthusiast who may be trying to pin down unidentified protozoa. It may just help you to decide whether you are looking at a Notosolenus (Fig.80) or a Petalomonas (Fig.83), or at something else! And students ought certainly to at least head for the library to read its excellent Introduction.	2001-04-25
US	50869571	R1E0GI2GMJZTJH	0486269167	423226657	Using the Microscope: A Guide for Naturalists	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Conveys a sense of the real excitement of this hobby.	Those of us who retain an interest in Nature, and a desire to look more closely into her marvels, may at some point find ourselves acquiring a microscope.  Those who do so, however, unless they have prior training, will quickly find that the business of using a microscope properly is  not as simple as it may seem and that some guidance is needed if one is to get the best results.  <br />This is where Eric V. Grave steps in.  His book, which is based on a course for amateur naturalists and non-science majors at the New York Microscopical Society, is the perfect book for the novice &quot;micronaut&quot; and is unique in conveying a sense of the real excitement this hobby can provide.  The book, which was originally published under the title 'Discover the Invisible: A Naturalist's Guide to Using the Microscope' (Prentice Hall, 1984), is illustrated with large clear black-and-white photographs and line drawings, and its 200 well-printed pages, besides covering microscopy and the world of the naturalist, also include information about resources, a glossary, a bibliography, and an index.<br />In Part I, the author, after a brief account of the history of microscopy, goes on to describe the structure of the microscope, its various parts, and how they work together.  He then explains how to  set up a microscope, the use of special methods of illumination, and give us a list of minimum equipment for the beginner.  There are also discussions of optics and the basics of microphotography.   But since, as Grave points out, it isn't enough to master the microscope, for just as important is the art of handling the object  to be observed, Chapter 4, 'Your Specimen,' is devoted to &quot;microtechnique,&quot; the collection, handling, and preparation of actual specimens - crystals, plant tissues, insects, protozoa (my own special interest), and even bacteria.<br />Things really come alive in Part II of the book, which is devoted to a series of truly fascinating accounts of some of the sights that await the novice micronaut, and I would agree with the reviewer who felt that Part II should be read first.  Both plant and animal life are covered, but whereas many books which contain discussions of microorganisms are content to simply give us descriptions of the structure of selected organisms, Grave goes much further and gives, in addition, illustrated and lovingly detailed  blow-by-blow accounts of the amazing talents, behavior, and lifestyles of a whole series of critters.  We are shown them loving, murdering, gorging, cannibalizing, reproducing, hitching rides, and zipping around while employing principles we more usually associate with speedboats and submarines.  Some of their abilities seem little less than  miraculous. <br />Graves clearly loves his subject.  His enthusiasm is infectious and at least one of the book's readers is on record as having gone on to take up a career in protozoology.  A few hours spent with 'Using the Microscope' and you'll easily understand why.  It's very special and  is a perfect complement to Werner Nachtigall's 'Exploring With the Microscope.'  Both, in their different ways, are informative and inspiring, and the enthusiast will want to read both.	2001-04-24
US	50869571	R1B50781F7PN5E	0896844293	728505636	012: The Mahabharata	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A lively translation; captures the spirit of the original.	Readers should note that this title is not out-of-print but is in print and is available in a 4-volume paperbound edition. It can be found by searching under - Mahabharata of Krishna-Dwaipayana Vyasa, by KISARI MOHAN GANGULY.  This is the complete translation  by Kisari Mohan Ganguli, and was published between 1883-1896.  My  own copy is the economy paperback reprint in four stitched and sturdily-bound though poorly printed volumes, and runs to over 5000 closely printed pages. Although not, of course, based on the recent critical Poona edition of the Sanskrit text, this edition should serve well enough as a reading text for anyone but a Sanskrit scholar.    J.A.B. van Buitenen, in the first volume of his own recent translation, comes down rather hard on Ganguli, though he apologizes for his harshness in a later volume. But to an impartial reader, van Buitenen's harshness seems hardly justified. As a native speaker of English myself, I find Ganguli's feeling for English to be on the whole superior to that of van Buitenen.    We should also remember that Ganguli did not have access to the rich resources van Buitenen enjoyed. In addition, Ganguli states clearly in his preface that he has tried to give \\"as literal a rendering as possible of the great work of Vyasa,\\" and a literal rendering does not have the same aim as a more literary rendering.     The most prominent feature of Ganguli's style, apart from its literalness, is his employment of forms such as \\"Thee\\" and \\"Thou\\" and \\"Thine,\\" etc., archaic forms which can at times grate on the modern sensibility.     Despite his literalness and archaisms, however, and despite his occasional inaccuracies (some of which seem to be the product of misprints), Ganguli is always lively and never wooden; as an Indian, he seems really to have caught the spirit of the Mahabharata. His version, though it requires stamina to read, has great energy and succeeds marvelously in capturing the many interesting and colorful characters of thepoem, and in vividly portraying the weird and wonderful things they get up to. Ganguli's is a lively edition I would certainly recommend.    As for the more recent three volumes of van Buitenen's translation (1973-78), which cover just one third of the total text (Books 1 to 5 of 18), although they represent fairly careful and up-to-date scholarship, and although they are beautiful examples of a well-thought-out layout and typography which makes for much easier reading than the cluttered pages of Ganguli, stylistically they too leave something to be desired, at least occasionally. Van Buitenen had his quirks too.     His grasp of the connotations of English words is often weak, and sometimes I even get the feeling that he may not have been a native speaker of English. Why else such eccentric usages as \\"Prince sans blame,\\" or \\"The Age of the Trey\\" and \\"The Age of the Deuce\\"? Even worse, why \\"Baron,\\" with its wholly inappropriate medieval European connotations, instead of the Sanskrit \\"ksatriya\\" or the English \\"Warrior\\"? A European \\"Baron\\" suggests to me something very unlike an Indian \\"ksatriya.\\" Far better to keep occasionally to the Sanskrit vocabulary, which is simple enough, than flee to inappropriate equivalents.    Besides van Buitenen's occasionally quirky usage, it must be said that his rendering can sometimes be rather wooden, particularly in the passages he chose to attempt in 'verse.' On the whole, however, he has given us a version which at its best reads well, and one that is mercifully free of irksome archaic forms. His edition is also extremely well-organized, and has a substantial and helpful scholarly apparatus (lengthy introductions, plot summaries, notes, full indexes, etc.) which Ganguli's edition lacks.    So where are we? Clearly no ideal and complete English translation of the Mahabharata exists, nor is ever likely to exist given its stupendous size. Also, to really get a feeling for the magic of the Mahabharata, you have to read at least a bit of it in Sanskrit. A practical and user-friendly 'Introduction to Sanskrit' for ordinary folks (as opposed to academic linguists) is that of Thomas Egenes (1989). A few months work with this will soon find anyone reading at least some of the Sanskrit, in a bilingual edition such as Monier Williams' excellent 'Story of Nala,' with real enjoyment.     To conclude, if I had to choose between the Ganguli and van Buitenen, and although I'm grateful for both as both have much to offer, I would recommend Ganguli as being closer in spirit to the original - but I'd also suggest that those who are innocent of Sanskrit take a peek at Egenes.	2001-04-24
US	50869571	RWLUDQZ9PUVS3	0806908661	425085340	Exploring With the Microscope: A Book of Discovery & Learning	Books	5	51	51	N	N	A wonderful book both for beginners and the more advanced.	For anyone who may be looking for a good introduction to microscopy, it's doubtful that there could be any better book.  Nachtigall, who clearly loves his subject, writes with great enthusiasm and has packed an enormous amount of  useful advice and information into its 160 pages.<br />The first thing that struck me about the book was how well-balanced it is.  Nachtigall, who is an authority on microscopy, seems to have wanted to create a book which would be of equal value both to the absolute beginner and to the more advanced student.  In this he has succeeded admirably, and I was particularly impressed by the great wealth of useful advice a beginner will find here, advice which runs all the way from how to buy, understand, and use a microscope through to how to collect and view plant, animal, and inorganic specimens.  More advanced students will probably find much to learn  from his detailed treatment of microphotography procedures and techniques.<br />The second thing that struck me about this book were its incredibly beautiful color photographs and microphotographs, all of which are the work of  Nachtigall himself.  He is clearly a master of the art, and his stunning photography is itself worth the price of the book.  Unlike the photographs in a  book such as D. J. Patterson's 'Free-Living Freshwater Protozoa,' which, though generally good, are small and often dark and not overly clear, Nachtigall's are large, bright, exremely clear, and beautifully reproduced.  The book also includes many black and white photographs and drawings of specimens, items of equipment, and techniques and procedures which are designed to help the reader understand matters which can at times be rather technical.<br />The book falls into two parts, the first of which, on equipment and techniques, has chapters on The Microscope, Optics, Illumination, Photomicrography, and Drawing and Measuring.  With the second part we move into the world of Plants, The Animal Kingdom, Inorganic Structures, and Aquatic Microorganisms.  The book, which is stitched and well-printed on high-quality glossy paper, concludes with a list of international suppliers and addresses, and an index.<br />Since the many things one can look at under a microscope had to be covered by Nachtigall in just eighty pages, his survey is necessarily sketchy.  Although his photographs enable us to clearly discern their structures, one will, for example, learn little of the fascinating lives and amazing talents of aquatic  microorganisms.  Readers who may have become interested in studying protozoa should try to locate a copy of Eric V. Grave's 'Using the Microscope:  A Guide for Naturalists.'  Although this book is unfortunately out-of-print, it is written in an equally engaging style and serves wonderfully to complement Nachtigall.<br />Whereas Nachtigall will probably leave you wanting to dash into town  to look for a good microscope (though before you do you might check out Hermester Barrington's five-star review of the Meade 9400), I've no doubt that Grave will send you scurrying off to the nearest pond to search for protozoa to put under it.  All three of these writers love their subject, and I should warn you that their enthusiasm is infectious.es, and Aquatic Microorganisms.  The book, which is stitched and well-printed on high-quality glossy paper, concludes with a list of international suppliers and addresses, and an index.<br />Since the many things one can look at under a microscope had to be covered by Nachtigall in just eighty pages, his survey is necessarily sketchy.  Although his photographs enable us to clearly discern their structures, one will, for example, learn little of the fascinating lives and amazing talents of aquatic  microorganisms.  Readers who may have become interested in studying protozoa should try to locate a copy of Eric V. Grave's 'Using the Microscope:  A Guide for Naturalists.'   Although this book is unfortunately out-of-print, it is written in an equally engaging style and serves wonderfully to complement Nachtigall.<br />Whereas Nachtigall will probably leave you wanting to dash into town  to look for a good microscope (though before you do you might check out Hermester Barrington's five-star review of the Meade 9400), I've no doubt that Grave will send you scurrying off to the nearest pond to search for protozoa to put under it.  All three of these writers love their subject, and I should warn you that their enthusiasm is infectious.	2001-04-18
US	50869571	R15DVQ17D8VO1R	0226846636	918474912	The Mahabharata, Volume 1: Book 1:  The Book of the Beginning (Bk. 1)	Books	5	119	122	N	N	Five Mahabharatas	I'm familiar with four translations of the Mahabharata. The first of these, that  of C. Rajagopalachari (1951), contains a selection of over one hundred of  the more interesting stories and episodes with interspersed comment.<br /><br />  Rajagopalachari's translation is a joy to read. The quality of his English style is  on a par with that of the finest English writers, and his vivid and dynamic  versions of these stories capture much of their humor and poignancy, and  have a real vigor, sparkle, and human interest. Anyone approaching the  Mahabharata for the first time could do worse than start with this wonderfully  readable selection.<br /><br />  I wish I could say the same for the second and longer abridgement that came  my way, that of Kamala Subramaniam (1965) in 766 large pages. Sadly,  though one appreciates the effort that went into it, this is a book that I could  not in good conscience recommend to anyone. Subramaniam seems to have  had no grasp of English style at all. She has chopped each Sanskrit verse into  small bite-sized pieces of English, and the staccato effect of her unending  series of short, simple, unvaried sentences would, I think, weary any  discerning reader.<br /><br />  The third translation, and the only complete one I have, is that by Kisari  Mohan Ganguli, published between 1883-1896. Mine is the economy  paperback reprint in four stitched and sturdily-bound though poorly printed  volumes, and runs to over 5000 closely printed pages. Although not, of  course, based on the recent critical Poona edition of the Sanskrit text, this  edition should serve well enough as a reading text for anyone but a Sanskrit  scholar.<br /><br />  J.A.B. van Buitenen, in the first volume of his own recent translation, comes  down rather hard on Ganguli, though he apologizes for his harshness in a later  volume. But to an impartial reader, van Buitenen's harshness seems hardly  justified. As a native speaker of English myself, I find Ganguli's feeling for  English to be on the whole superior to that of van Buitenen.<br /><br />  We should also remember that Ganguli did not have access to the rich  resources van Buitenen enjoyed. In addition, Ganguli states clearly in his  preface that he has tried to give \\"as literal a rendering as possible of the great  work of Vyasa,\\" and a literal rendering does not have the same aim as a more  literary rendering.<br /><br />  The most prominent feature of Ganguli's style, apart from its literalness, is his  employment of archaic forms such as \\"Thee\\" and \\"Thou\\" and \\"Thine,\\" etc.,  forms which can at times grate on the modern sensibility.<br /><br />  Despite his literalness and archaisms, however, and despite his occasional  inaccuracies (some of which seem to be the product of misprints), Ganguli is  always lively and never wooden; as an Indian, he seems really to have caught  the spirit of the Mahabharata. His version, though it requires stamina to read,  has great energy and succeeds marvelously in capturing the many interesting  and colorful characters of the poem, and in vividly portraying the weird and  wonderful things they get up to. Ganguli's is a lively edition I would certainly  recommend.<br /><br />  As for the more recent three volumes of van Buitenen's translation  (1973-78), which cover just one third of the total text (Books 1 to 5 of 18),  although they represent fairly careful and up-to-date scholarship, and  although they are beautiful examples of a well-thought-out layout and  typography which makes for much easier reading than the cluttered pages of  Ganguli, stylistically they too leave something to be desired, at least  occasionally. Van Buitenen had his quirks too.<br /><br />  His grasp of the connotations of English words is often weak, and sometimes  I even get the feeling that he may not have been a native speaker of English.  Why else such eccentric usages as \\"Prince sans blame,\\" or \\"The Age of the  Trey\\" and \\"The Age of the Deuce\\"? Even worse, why\\"Baron,\\" with its wholly  inappropriate medieval European connotations, instead of the Sanskrit  \\"ksatriya\\" or the English \\"Warrior\\"? A European \\"Baron\\" suggests to me  something very unlike an Indian \\"ksatriya.\\" Far better to keep occasionally to  the Sanskrit vocabulary, which is simple enough, than flee to inappropriate  equivalents.<br /><br />  Besides van Buitenen's occasionally quirky usage, it must be said that his  rendering can sometimes be rather wooden, particularly in the passages he  chose to attempt in 'verse.' On the whole, however, he has given us a version  which at its best reads well, and one that is mercifully free of irksome archaic  forms. His edition is also extremely well-organized, and has a substantial and  helpful scholarly apparatus (lengthy introductions, plot summaries, notes, full  indexes, etc.) which Ganguli's edition lacks.<br /><br />  So where are we? Clearly no ideal and complete English translation of the  Mahabharata exists, nor is ever likely to exist given its stupendous size. Also,  to really get a feeling for the magic of the Mahabharata, you have to read at  least a bit of it in Sanskrit. A practical and user-friendly 'Introduction to  Sanskrit' for ordinary folks (as opposed to academic linguists) is that of  Thomas Egenes (1989). A few months work with this will soon find anyone  reading at least some of the Sanskrit, in a bilingual edition such as Monier  Williams' excellent 'Story of Nala,' with real enjoyment.<br /><br />  To conclude, if I had to choose between the Ganguli and van Buitenen, and  although I'm grateful for both as both have much to offer, I would  recommend Ganguli as being closer in spirit to the original - but I'd also  suggest that those who are innocent of Sanskrit take a peek at Egenes.\\"Baron,\\" with its wholly  inappropriate medieval European connotations, instead of the Sanskrit  \\"ksatriya\\" or the English \\"Warrior\\"? A European \\"Baron\\" suggests to me  something very unlike an Indian \\"ksatriya.\\" Far better to keep occasionally to  the Sanskrit vocabulary, which is simple enough, than flee to inappropriate  equivalents.<br /><br />  Besides van Buitenen's occasionally quirky usage, it must be said that his  rendering can sometimes be rather wooden, particularly in the passages he  chose to attempt in 'verse.' On the whole, however, he has given us a version  which at its best reads well, and one that is mercifully free of irksome archaic  forms. His edition is also extremely well-organized, and has a substantial and  helpful scholarly apparatus (lengthy introductions, plot summaries, notes, full  indexes, etc.) which Ganguli's edition lacks.<br /><br />  So where are we? Clearly no ideal and complete English translation of the  Mahabharata exists, nor is ever likely to exist given its stupendous size. Also,  to really get a feeling for the magic of the Mahabharata, you have to read at  least a bit of it in Sanskrit. A practical and user-friendly 'Introduction to  Sanskrit' for ordinary folks (as opposed to academic linguists) is that of  Thomas Egenes (1989). A few months work with this will soon find anyone  reading at least some of the Sanskrit, in a bilingual edition such as Monier  Williams' excellent 'Story of Nala,' with real enjoyment.<br /><br />  To conclude, if I had to choose between the Ganguli and van Buitenen, and  although I'm grateful for both as both have much to offer, I would  recommend Ganguli as being closer in spirit to the original - but I'd also  suggest that those who are innocent of Sanskrit take a peek at Egenes.nnotations, instead of the Sanskrit                                      \\"ksatriya\\" or the English \\"Warrior\\"? A European \\"Baron\\" suggests to me                                      something very unlike an Indian \\"ksatriya.\\" Far better to keep occasionally to                                      the Sanskrit vocabulary, which is simple enough, than flee to inappropriate                                      equivalents.                                         Besides van Buitenen's occasionally quirky usage, it must be said that his                                      rendering can sometimes be rather wooden, particularly in the passages he                                      chose to attempt in 'verse.' On the whole, however, he has given us a version                                      which at its best reads well, and one that is mercifully free of irksome archaic                                      forms. His edition is also extremely well-organized, and has a substantial and                                      helpful scholarly apparatus (lengthy introductions, plot summaries, notes, full                                      indexes, etc.) which Ganguli's edition lacks.                                         So where are we? Clearly no ideal and complete English translation of the                                      Mahabharata exists, nor is ever likely to exist given its stupendous size. Also,                                      to really get a feeling for the magic of the Mahabharata, you have to read at                                      least a bit of it in Sanskrit. A practical and user-friendly 'Introduction to                                      Sanskrit' for ordinary folks (as opposed to academic linguists) is that of                                      Thomas Egenes (1989). A few months work with this will soon find anyone                                      reading at least some of the Sanskrit, in a bilingual edition such as MonierWilliams' excellent 'Story of Nala,' with real enjoyment.                                          To conclude, if I had to choose between the Ganguli and van Buitenen, and                                      although I'm grateful for both as both have much to offer, I would                                      recommend Ganguli as being closer in spirit to the original - but I'd also                                      suggest that those who are innocent of Sanskrit take a peek at Egenes.	2001-04-07
US	50869571	RWFZ7F1EAEZ5C	8121505933	110976188	Mahabharata of Krishna-Dwaipayana Vyasa (4 Volume Set)	Books	5	174	179	N	N	Five MAHABHARATAS	I'm familiar with four translations of the Mahabharata.  The first of these, that of C. Rajagopalachari (1951), contains a selection of over one hundred of the more interesting stories and episodes with interspersed comment.<br /><br />Rajagopalachari's translation is a joy to read.  The quality of his English style is on a par with  that of the finest English writers, and his vivid and dynamic versions of these stories capture much of their humor and poignancy, and have a real vigor, sparkle, and human interest.  Anyone approaching the  Mahabharata for the first time could do worse than start with this wonderfully readable selection.<br /><br />I wish I could say the same for the second and longer abridgement that came my way, that of Kamala Subramaniam (1965) in 766 large pages.  Sadly, though one appreciates the effort that went into it, this is a book that I could not in good conscience recommend to anyone. Subramaniam seems to have had no grasp of English style at all.  She  has chopped each Sanskrit verse into small bite-sized pieces of English, and the staccato effect of her unending series of short, simple, unvaried sentences would, I think, weary any discerning reader.<br /><br />The third translation, and the only complete one I have, is that by Kisari Mohan Ganguli, published between 1883-1896.  Mine is the economy paperback reprint in four stitched and sturdily-bound though poorly printed volumes, and runs to over 5000 closely printed pages.  Although not, of course, based on the recent critical Poona edition of the Sanskrit text, this edition should serve well enough as a reading text for anyone but a Sanskrit scholar.<br /><br />J.A.B. van Buitenen, in the first volume of his own recent translation, comes down rather hard on Ganguli, though he apologizes for his harshness in a later volume.  But to an impartial reader, van Buitenen's harshness seems hardly justified.  As a native speaker of English myself, I find Ganguli's feeling for English to be onthe whole superior to that of  van Buitenen.<br /><br />We should also remember that Ganguli did not have access to the rich resources van Buitenen enjoyed.  In addition, Ganguli states clearly in his preface that he has tried to give \\"as literal a rendering as possible of the great work of Vyasa,\\" and a literal rendering does not have the same aim as a more literary rendering.<br /><br />The most prominent feature of Ganguli's style, apart from its literalness, is his employment of forms such as \\"Thee\\" and \\"Thou\\" and \\"Thine,\\" etc., archaic forms which can at times grate on the modern sensibility.<br /><br />Despite his literalness and archaisms, however, and despite his occasional inaccuracies (some of which seem to be the product of misprints), Ganguli is always lively and never wooden; as an Indian, he seems really to have caught the spirit of the Mahabharata.  His version, though it requires stamina to read, has great energy and succeeds marvelously in capturing the many interesting and colorful characters of the poem, and in vividly portraying the weird and wonderful things they get up to.  Ganguli's is a lively edition I would certainly recommend.<br /><br />As for the more recent three volumes of van Buitenen's translation  (1973-78), which cover just one third of the total text (Books 1 to 5 of 18), although they represent fairly careful and up-to-date scholarship, and although they are beautiful examples of a well-thought-out layout and typography which makes for much easier reading than the cluttered pages of Ganguli, stylistically they too leave something to be desired, at least occasionally.  Van Buitenen had his quirks too.<br /><br />His grasp of the connotations of English words is often weak, and  sometimes I even get the feeling that he may not have been a native speaker of English.  Why else such eccentric usages as \\"Prince sans blame,\\" or \\"The Age of the Trey\\" and \\"The Age of the Deuce\\"?  Even worse, why \\"Baron,\\" with  its wholly inappropriate medieval European connotations, instead of the Sanskrit \\"ksatriya\\" or the English \\"Warrior\\"?  A European \\"Baron\\" suggests to me something very unlike an Indian \\"ksatriya.\\"  Far better to keep occasionally to the Sanskrit vocabulary, which is simple enough, than flee to inappropriate equivalents.<br /><br />Besides van Buitenen's occasionally quirky usage, it must be said that his rendering can sometimes be rather wooden, particularly in the passages he chose to attempt in 'verse.'  On the whole, however, he has given us a version  which at its best reads well, and one that is mercifully free of irksome archaic forms.  His edition is also extremely well-organized, and has a substantial and helpful scholarly apparatus  (lengthy introductions, plot summaries, notes, full indexes, etc.) which Ganguli's edition lacks.<br /><br />So where are we?  Clearly no ideal and complete English translation of the Mahabharata exists, nor is ever likely to exist given its stupendous size.  Also, to really get a feeling for the magic of the Mahabharata, you have to read at least a bit of it in Sanskrit. A practical and user-friendly 'Introduction to Sanskrit' for ordinary folks (as opposed to academic linguists) is that of Thomas Egenes  (1989).  A few months work with this will soon find anyone reading at least some of the Sanskrit, in a bilingual edition such as Monier Williams' excellent 'Story of Nala,' with real enjoyment.<br /><br />To conclude, if I had to choose between the Ganguli and van Buitenen, and although I'm grateful for both  as both have much to offer, I would recommend Ganguli as being closer in spirit to the original - but I'd also suggest that those who are innocent of Sanskrit take a peek at Egenes [[ASIN:8120811402 Introduction to Sanskrit, Part 1]].	2001-04-05
US	50869571	RVPE7NDBOAMQ8	0897449290	925589365	Mahabharata	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A wonderfully readable selection.	I'm familiar with four translations of the Mahabharata - those of C. Rajagopalachari, K. M. Ganguli, K. Subramaniam and J.A.B. van Buitenen. The first of these, that of C. Rajagopalachari (1951), contains, in its 326 pages (in my edition),  a selection of over one hundred of the more interesting stories and episodes from the Mahabharata with interspersed comment.<br />Rajagopalachari's translation is a joy to read.  The quality of his English style is on a par with  that of the finest English writers, and his vivid and dynamic versions of these stories capture much of their humor and poignancy, and have a real vigor, sparkle, and human interest.  Anyone approaching the  Mahabharata for the first time could do worse than start with this wonderfully readable selection.	2001-03-18
US	50869571	RVBRJU7INJOS6	0940500256	41429311	Hinduism: Religion and Way of Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A brief, interesting, and well-written survey.	Anyone who is looking for a brief and well-written introduction to Hinduism as a religion and way of life, and one written from the Indian point-of-view, will find this book both interesting and useful. <br />Satyavrata Patel is a Professor of International Law at M.S. University of Baroda and a jurist of international repute.  Although he is naturally proud of Hindu culture and its achievements, he takes care to maintain a balanced and objective approach to his subject.  His style is both clear and elegant, and although this is a slim book it manages to pack a great deal into its 165 pages.  <br />After defining Hinduism and discussing its sources, Patel goes on to examine its theology and cosmology, metaphysics and ethics, and rites and rituals.  Its seventeen chapters cover such topics as - Scriptures and Basic Texts; Historical Perspective and Growth; Systems of Philosophy; Social Framework and Values;  Rituals, Sacraments and Festivals; Hindu Gods and Goddesses; Sects; Symbols; Vedanta; Heterodox Schools, etc.  <br />He concludes with what for many may be the most intriguing chapter of all, the chapter on 'The World's Debt to Hinduism.'  Although we are well aware of the enormous impact of ancient Indian civilization on the South-East Asian culture area, the fact of India's influence on regions as far afield as Ancient Britain and the Americas will probably come as surprising news to some, although many full-length studies, both Eastern and Western, have been appearing recently which take up this theme (see Navaratna S. Rajaram, David Frawley, George Feuerstein, Stephen Knapp, etc.).  <br />Of the many surveys of Hinduism that I've read over the years, this is one of the few that I've kept and still occasionally refer to.  The book concludes with quite a good bibliography that will guide those whose interest has been sparked to further and more specialized reading.	2001-03-17
US	50869571	R2KFT1RBC4Z3O0	0140441212	23831265	The Bhagavad Gita (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	232	234	N	N	One of the more attractive versions for the general reader.	Juan Mascaro's edition of the Gita is undoubtedly one of the more attractive versions for the general reader who is approaching the Gita for the first time.  Mascaro, besides being a Sanskrit scholar, is a sensitive translator who clearly resonates to the Gita.  He tells us that the aim of his translation is &quot;to give, without notes or commentary, the spiritual message of the Bhagavad Gita in pure English.&quot; To suggest just how well he has succeeded, here is his rendering of Verse II.66:<br />&quot;There is no wisdom for a man without harmony, and without harmony  there is no contemplation.  Without contemplation there cannot be peace, and without peace can there be joy?&quot;<br />Many readers will probably be content to remain with Mascaro, and it certainly seems to me that his translation reads beautifully  and that a fair number of his verses have never been bettered by others.  But the Gita is not quite so simple as it may sometimes appear.  If we want to arrive at a fuller idea of just what the Gita means by &quot;wisdom,&quot; &quot;harmony,&quot; &quot;contemplation,&quot; &quot;peace,&quot; and so on, we will need to consult other and fuller editions.<br />There are many editions which, besides giving a translation of the Gita, also give a full commentary such as the excellent one by Sri Aurobindo in his 'Bhagavad Gita and Its Message' (1995).  Others, besides  giving a commentary and notes, also give the Sanskrit text along with  a word-by-word translation.  Some of these even include the commentary of the great Indian philosopher, Shankara (c. + 788 to 820), such as the very fine edition by Swami Gambhirananda (Calcutta: Advaita Ashrama, 1995, which may be available through the Vedanta Press, CA).  Here is the latter's English rendering of Verse II.66:<br />&quot;For the unsteady there is no wisdom, and there is no meditation for the unsteady man.  And for an unmeditative man there is no peace.  How can there be happiness for one without peace?&quot;<br />This may not seem to have carried us much beyond Mascaro until we start looking at Shankara's commentary, of which the following provides a taste:<br />&quot;Ayuktasya, for the unsteady, for one who does not have a concentrated mind; na asti, there is no, i.e. there does not arise; buddhih, wisdom, with regard to the nature of the Self; ca, and; there is no bhavana, meditation, earnest longing for the knowledge of the Self; ayuktasya, for an unsteady man. And similarly, abhavayatah, for an unmeditative man, who does not ardently desire the knowledge of the Self; there is no shantih, peace, restraint of the senses.  Kutah, how can there be; sukham, happiness; ashantasya, for one without peace?  That indeed is happiness which consists in the freedom of the senses from the thirst for enjoyment of objects; not the thirst for objects - that is misery to be sure.  The implication is that, so long as thirst persists, there is no possibility of even an iota of happiness!&quot; (page 112-3).<br />For anyone who would like to see a full treatment of the language of the Sanskrit text, there is Winthrop Sargeant's stupendous labor of love, 'The Bhagavad Gita'   (SUNY, 1984) which offers a complete grammatical description of every single Sanskrit word in the text, along with much else. <br />Finally, for anyone who would like to look at a first-rate study of the Gita, there is Trevor Leggett's 'Realization of the Supreme Self - The Yoga-s of the Bhagavad Gita' (Kegan Paul International, 1995). This is a superb work with an intensely practical bent which sees the Gita, not so much as a metaphysical treatise but as a book of practical instruction.  I used to think I knew the Gita before I discovered Leggett!<br />But despite the great wealth of available editions, of which I've mentioned only a few here, I still find myself returning to Mascaro from time to time.  A perfect translation of the Gita into English is probably unattainable, but Mascaro seems to have come as close as anyone is ever likely to do.  His version has a tendency to send down roots and grow in the mind.	2001-03-15
US	50869571	R130C43RSHD3DW	8185208085	777915469	The Bhagavad Gita with The Commentary of Sri Sankaracharya	Books	4	36	36	N	N	An older translation which reads reasonably well.	The full title of this book is 'The Bhagavad Gita - With the Commentary of Sri Sankaracharya, Translated from the original Sanskrit into  English by Alladi Mahadeva Sastry.'  The book contains the Sanskrit text of the Gita in Devanagari script followed by its translation, and also the translation of Sankara's famous commentary or Bhashya.  Although this book was first published in 1897, it still reads reasonably well.  <br />Trevor Leggett, in his superb study of the Gita - 'Realization of the Supreme Self - The Yoga-s of the Bhagavad Gita' (Kegan Paul International, 1995) - comments on the Bhashya: &quot;Sankara explains the revelatory flashes of the Gita by putting them side by side with Upanishadic texts and with each other.  He presents a system which is internally consistent, and which resolves the apparent contradictions of some of the texts&quot; (page 7).  <br />The Sastry edition is sturdily bound in cloth, stitched, and for an Indian publication is reasonably well printed on good paper.  Although no-one today would probably want to sit down and read through the entire commentary, since a certain amount of the exposition is there to answer the objections of rival schools which no longer exist, much of what Sankara has to say is of abiding interest and his Bhashya belongs in the library of all serious students of Advaita Vedanta.  <br />Those who may be interested in finding a more recent translation, one  that is fuller, in contemporary idiom, and far more clearly printed, might care to look at Swami Gambhirananda's 'Bhagavad Gita - With the Commentary of Sankaracharya' (Calcutta: Advaita Ashrama, 1995), an edition that is available through the Vedanta Press, CA.  One of the more useful features of the Gambhirananda edition is that, unlike that of Sastry, it does not omit that part of the Bhashya which shows in what order the words of the Gita are to be construed, and which gives their various synonyms.  The beginning student of Sanskrit will find  this a very useful help in understanding the text.<br />Another useful edition is the 'Srimad Bhagavad Gita Bhasya of Sri  Samkaracarya' by Dr. A.G. Krishna Warrier (Madras: Sri Ramakrishna Math, n.d.).  This, besides giving the Devanagari of the Gita, also gives it for the Bhashya, along with excellent contemporary translations of both.<br />Any of these three editions would serve the interested student. I keep my own copy of the Gambhirananda constantly at hand and often find myself referring to it.	2001-03-15
US	50869571	R1B87ELSFYA0ZI	8120812808	293631294	The Vedic Experience Mantramanjari: Anthology of the Vedas for Modern Man and Contemporary Celebration	Books	5	89	90	N	N	Joining Life's Celebration.	We have all heard of the Vedas. We know that the Vedic Canon comprises a huge body of literature handed down orally in India since ancient times. Many of us have heard that it is made up of four collections - the Rigveda, Atharva Veda, Yajurveda, and Samaveda - along with adjacent treatises such as the Brahmanas and Aranyakas. These books undoubtedly exist, written in an inaccessible language, published in large and expensive scholarly editions, and tucked away in obscure libraries. Although we may have run into a translated excerpt or two, for many of us the whole subject has a musty and forbidding air, and we probably concluded long ago that it's something best left to scholars as quite irrelevant to to we moderns.  But a few minutes spent with Dr Panikkar's superb anthology will show us how wrong we are.    Dr Panikkar is a remarkable man, not only for his incredible scholarship - he is a Professor of Religious Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, with many significant publications to his credit - but remarkable also for his honesty. He points out that modern man is a diminished man. Despite the superficial excitements of our high-tech world, life for most has become a flat, stale, and joyless thing. It is joyless because we have forgotten what life is supposed to be, and Dr Panikkar hopes by means of this book to shift our perception of things to a different register, to put us back in touch with realities by reawakening in us something of the joy and wonder in life which was felt by those early and vigorous peoples who sang the Vedas.     The Vedic songs represent the most amazing celebration of life that has ever been created. And although Dr Panikkar's book is certainly scholarly, it was not written primarily for scholars, or even for persons with a special interest in things Indian. It was written for all of us. Its only requirement is that you be human.     The book wasn't even written to be read, for each of the beautifully translated texts Dr Panikkar has given us is a Mantra or meditation. We are supposed to soak in them, assimilate them, and preferably even recite them aloud along with others in a group. They are a means whereby all of us, no matter of what race or persuasion, can come together and join again in a joyous celebration of life and our shared humanity, and of the glorious universe we live in. And I think you will find that they do work.  Here is an example of their fine quality as captured in the translator's wonderfully lucid English:    \\"Now Dawn with her earliest light shines forth,  beloved of the Sky,   Fresh from her toilet, conscious of her beauty,  she emerges visible for all to see.  Dawn, Daughter of Heaven, lends us her lustre,  dispersing all shadows of malignity,  Arousing from deep slumber all that lives,  stirring to motion man and beast and bird,  This maiden infringes not the Eternal Law,  day after day coming to the place appointed\\"  (pages 164-65).       The book represents an enormous labor of love. Dr Panikkar tells us that he spent over ten years combing through the vast Vedic corpus in order to select, translate, and arrange the very best texts it had to offer, texts that we moderns are very much in need of, whether we realize it or not. Each of the more than five hundred texts he has selected is preceded by very full introductory comment and is also usefully annotated. The texts have been organized into seven parts:     Part I - Dawn and Birth (Waters, Earth, Wind, Dawn, Human Birth, etc.).     Part II - Germination and Growth (Divine Gifts, Food, Knowing the Earth, Human Work, The Happy Life, etc.).     Part III - Blossoming and Fullness (Radiance and Cosmic Refulgence, Sacrifice, Breaking the Boundaries, etc.).     Part IV - Fall and Decay (Sorrow and Suffering, Sin and Mercy, etc.).    Part V - Death and Dissolution (The Mystery of the Beyond, The Blessings for the Journey, Liturgy for the Dead, Cosmic Disintegration, Hell, Heaven).     Part VI - New Lifeand Freedom (Transcendental Consciousness, The Discovery of the Ground, The Fulfillment of the Person, etc.).    Part VII - Twilight (At Sunrise, Spring Summer, Rainy Season, Autumn, Winter, Frosty Season, etc.).    The texts, most of them quite short, are contained in a book of almost 1000 pages which is cloth-bound, stitched, and well-printed on good paper.  Even the most jaded could open it up at any page and immediately become enthralled. There is a freshness and purity to these texts that is irresistible. It is like coming across a blossom-filled meadow in spring.    These vigorous and life-affirmative songs give us what men and women once were, and what we may yet become once again, for it is what deep down we still are though we have forgotten. Life, despite its many hardships, is supposed to be joyous, something to be celebrated. And one is intensely grateful to Dr Panikkar for having rescued these songs from scholarly oblivion and provided us with the means of again entering into that celebration.    Readers may care to know that an abridged edition of the present book recently appeared as: INITIATION TO THE VEDAS : AN ABRIDGED EDITION OF THE VEDIC EXPERIENCE - MANTRAMANJARI by Raimon Pannikar. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 2006. 102 pp. Color Plates. ISBN: 8120829549. Binding: Soft Cover.	2001-03-15
US	50869571	R1EW1RQLADLOOT	0874815258	242527620	Srimad Bhagavad Gita Bhasya of Sri Samkaracarya	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent layout and typography and the easiest to read.	The Bhagavad Gita is today recognized as a spiritual classic of world-wide importance.  It was Sankara who first brought this text into prominence by extracting it from the vast mass of The Mahabharata, who established the standard text of 700 verses which is still the one we use today, and who produced the first extant commentary on it. <br />I'm personally familiar with just three editions of the Gita which include Sankara's famous Gita Bhashya or Commentary: those by A.M. Sastry, by Swami Gambhirananda, and by Dr A.G. Krishna Warrier.<br />The full title of the first of these editions is 'The Bhagavad Gita - With the Commentary of Sri Sankaracharya, Translated from the original Sanskrit into English by Alladi Mahadeva Sastry.' The book contains the Sanskrit text of the Gita in Devanagari script followed by its translation, and also the translation of Sankara's commentary.  Although this book was first published in 1897, it still reads reasonably well. <br />Trevor Leggett, in his superb study of the Gita - 'Realization of the Supreme Self - The Yoga-s of the Bhagavad Gita' (Kegan Paul International, 1995) - comments on the Bhashya: &quot;Sankara explains the revelatory flashes of the Gita by putting them side by side with Upanishadic texts and with each other. He presents a system which is internally consistent, and which resolves the apparent contradictions of some of the texts&quot; (page 7). <br />The Sastry edition is sturdily bound in cloth, stitched, and for an Indian publication is reasonably well printed on good paper. Although no-one today would probably want to sit down and read through the entire commentary, since a certain amount of the exposition is there to answer the objections of rival schools which no longer exist, much of what Sankara has to say is of abiding interest and his Bhashya belongs in the library of all serious students of Advaita Vedanta. <br />Those who may be interested in finding a more recent translation, one that is fuller, in contemporary idiom, and far more clearly printed, might care to look at Swami Gambhirananda's 'Bhagavad Gita - With the Commentary of Sankaracharya' (Calcutta: Advaita Ashrama, 1995), an edition that is available through the Vedanta Press, CA. One of the more useful features of the Gambhirananda edition is that, unlike that of Sastry, it does not omit that part of the Bhashya which shows in what order the words of the Gita are to be construed, and which gives their various synonyms. The beginning student of Sanskrit will find this a very useful help in understanding the text.<br />Another useful edition is the 'Srimad Bhagavad Gita Bhasya of Sri Samkaracarya' by Dr. A.G. Krishna Warrier (Madras: Sri Ramakrishna Math, n.d.). This, besides giving the Devanagari of the Gita, also gives it for the Bhashya, along with excellent contemporary translations of both.  It is a book of over 650 pages, stitched and in card wrappers, and because of its excellent layout and typography is the easiest to read, although like the Sastry it  omits the construing and synonyms.  What it does do, however, to help those who are not familiar with the intricacies of Sanskrit grammar, is to break up the long Sanskrit compounds so that each word of the Devanagari of Sankara's Bhashya stands by itself as in English and other modern languages.     <br />All three of these editions were produced by outstanding scholars, and any of them would serve the interested student. I keep my own copies of the Gambhirananda and Warrier constantly at hand and often find myself referring  to them.	2001-03-15
US	50869571	RUK3YC7U4EF5C	0961741066	643509865	Proof of Vedic Culture's Global Existence	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The Aryan Invasion Theory as Myth	Although Steven Knapp's 'Proof of Vedic Culture's Global Existence' has some very real weaknesses, it would be unwise to dismiss the whole of his thesis out of hand.  In particular, he certainly seems to be on to something when he points out that there is little if any evidence to support the received view of an 'Aryan Invasion of India.' <br /> <br />It would seem that this THEORY - which is all it is - is a MYTH propagated by Western Scholars who wished, for politically motivated reasons, to devalue the achievements of Ancient India. As such it becomes not unlike certain other current myths which have been planted in the common mind and that work to prevent a true understanding of the past. <br /> <br />Those who may be interested in pursuing this matter should try to find a copy of David Frawley's 'Gods, Sages and Kings : Vedic Secrets of Ancient Civilization.' His article, 'The Myth of the Aryan Invasion of India' which appeared in \\"The India Times\\", can be found through Google and is available at: [...]  <br /> <br />On another note, although I'm not a linguist it's my understanding that language tends to evolve from an older and earlier complexity of grammar towards a later simplicity, and if we look at Sanskrit, Ancient Greek, Latin and English what we find is that Sanskrit is more complex than Ancient Greek, Ancient Greek is more complex than Latin, and Latin is more complex than English. The movement from complexity to relative simplicity has been from East to West, and not West to East.     <br /> <br />	2001-03-14
US	50869571	R3UU4NFW3Z0S0S	0140444025	962236503	The Rig Veda: An Anthology of One Hundred Eight Hymns (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	42	N	N	The Vedas as a Revelation of Our Shared Humanity	This is quite a good book, as far as it goes.  Readers who would like to find a far fuller selection taken from the entire corpus of the Vedas, one that carries us beyond the merely scholarly into an approach which sees the Vedas as a revelation of our shared humanity, as \\"a disclosure of something that enriches the human experience,\\" might care to take a look at Raimundo Panikkar's magisterial 'THE VEDIC EXPERIENCE - MANTRAMANJARI - AN ANTHOLOGY OF THE VEDAS FOR MODERN MAN AND CONTEMPORARY CELEBRATION' (ISBN 8120812808).    Pannikar's edition, at almost 1000 pages, with full introductions to each beautifully translated text, and with detailed annotations for those who are interested in precise sources and in the original Sanskrit terminology, must be one of the best bargains going.   Even the most hard-boiled could open his edition at any page and immediately become enthralled.  There is a freshness and purity to these songs  and chants that is  irresistible.  It's like coming across a blossom-filled meadow in spring.    These vigorous and life-affirmative songs give us what men and women once were, and what we may yet become once again, for it is what deep down we still are though we have forgotten.  Life, despite its hardships, is supposed to be joyous, something to be celebrated.  And one is intensely grateful to anyone who undertakes the hard labor of devoting a book, of no matter what size, to a literature which can enrich us all.    Readers may also be interested to note that an abridgement of Pannikar's THE VEDIC EXPERIENCE has recently appeared as:    INITIATION TO THE VEDAS : AN ABRIDGED EDITION OF THE VEDIC EXPERIENCE - MANTRAMANJARI by Raimon Pannikar. New Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 2006. 102 pp. Color Plates. ISBN: 8120829549.	2001-03-14
US	50869571	R1GQHKL0OYQ3CB	0710304331	505589013	Realization Of The Supreme Self	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The Gita as a Manual of Yoga Practice	Trevor Leggett's background is impressive.  Head of the BBC Japanese Service for twenty years, he has lived in both India and Japan, has a  string of publications on various Eastern topics  to his credit, and his knowledge of the languages and thought of the East is both extensive and deep. In addition, he underwent, under the personal  guidance of the late Dr Hari Prasad Shastri, formal training for eighteen years in the meditative practices he describes, and one is gratified to find him applying his considerable expertise to elucidating the Bhagavad Gita.<br />The Gita, though enormously popular, is a difficult text.  It contains many seeming contradictions and inconsistencies, and it has generated a wide range of conflicting interpretations.  The great Shankara Acarya himself (+ 788-820), one of the acutest minds India has ever produced, states in the Introduction to his 'bhasya' or commentary on the Gita, that &quot;this scripture called the Gita ... is the collection of the quintessence of all the teachings of the Vedas, and its meaning is difficult to understand&quot; (Gambhirananda tr. page 5).<br />Unfortunately for the modern reader, the ancient Indian commentaries  such as those of Shankara can, for a variety of reasons, be often more difficult to understand than the text on which they comment.  <br />This is where Leggett Sensei steps in, for what he has done is to extract the essential core of the Gita, particularly as it applies to &quot;the main points of Gita practice presented by Shankara, the earliest  and greatest commentator&quot; (page 9), and to present this in a clear, simple, and readable English, and in a way suited to the non-specialist modern reader.<br />As soon as I started reading this book I found that it immediately  began to clear up problems I'd been having, particularly the vexing problem of whether the Gita is to be understood as primarily Monistic or Theistic.<br />Most commentators tend to explain the Gita as being primarily about a single yoga, the yoga of action or the yoga of devotion or the yoga  of knowledge.  What Leggett points out, however, is that the technique  of the Gita is more subtle.  It contains, as we saw Shankara affirm,  not merely one but &quot;all the teachings of the Vedas,&quot; and hence all yoga-s, and the method it employs is one of &quot;Teaching Down&quot; (Leggett, pages 18-20).  <br />For a full description of this method you will, of course, have to read Leggett.  Basically it consists in starting with the highest and most difficult yoga in the hope that the student is already highly advanced and will immediately understand (as is the case with King  Janaka in the 'Ashtavakra Gita').  But if, as happens with Arjuna, the student is not particularly advanced and fails to understand, one then gradually steps down the degree of difficulty in stages until one discovers the student's true level.  <br />The Gita, in other words, although it contains much metaphysics, is not primarily to be thought of as a metaphysical treatise but as a book of practical instruction.  As Leggett points out: &quot;In the end, the system has to be confirmed by practice; it is not a dogma.  There has to be enough faith in it to carry out the outer and inner training&quot; (page 7). He adds that: &quot;To study the holy texts is a sacred duty....  But if it is done without meditation, it leads to a kind of frustration&quot; (pages 30-31).  In short, for true understanding practice is essential.<br />Leggett's book is divided into five main parts: Part 1 - Introductory; Part 2 - Yoga-s of the Gita (which takes us chapter-by-chapter through the whole Gita, using selected verses to point up the features of the various yogas); Part 3 - Shankara on Gita Practice (Worship for Sceptics, Line of Light, Karma-Yoga Action, Samadhi, etc.); Part 4 - Pointers for Practice (The Experimental Basis, Mistakes, The Four Vocations, Rebirth, etc.); and Part 5 - Technical Appendixes.  <br />There are many theoretical studies of the Gita, studies, for example, like those of George Feuerstein which argue that the Gita is to be understood as a purely theistic and devotional work.  It is the great merit of Leggett's book that he has risen above all such sectarian narrowness, and has redirected our attention to the real nature of the Gita as a practical manual of training in 'all' yoga-s.<br />In addition to Leggett's intensely practical orientation, another striking feature of his book is the very high quality of his  translations from the Gita.  Here is an example:<br />        &quot;Here, O son of Kuru, thought is one-pointed and decisive:         Endlessly branching out are the thoughts of the indecisive.&quot;                                                              (II.41)<br />I have compared this with about ten other translations and nowhere did I find the meaning of this verse expressed so clearly and crisply, and Leggett has many other similarly impressive verses.  It would be wonderful to see a complete translation of the Gita from him some day.   'Realization of The Supreme Self' is a unique and invaluable book. It is also very well-produced, being cloth-bound, Smyth-sewn, and well-printed in a good-sized font on strong heavy paper.  My only criticism of the book is its very high price.  One hopes that at some point the publishers will see fit to issue it in a less expensive paperbound version, for it is a book that will be of real value to  anyone with a serious interest in the Gita.<br />Two other books that the interested reader might care to consult, both again with a practical bent and written by clear-headed Englishmen who had lived in India, are Douglas Harding's 'On Having No Head' and Sri Krishna Prem's 'Initiation into Yoga.'  Both serve to complement Leggett Sensei's book beautifully.  Their collective aim might be said not so much to help us understand Self as to become it.	2001-03-11
US	50869571	R2XX0IAS0KMNI2	0091256313	401709813	Initiation into Yoga	Books	5	11	11	N	N	On becoming fully human.	Ronald Nixon (who later became known as Sri Krishna Prem) was a young man in his twenties when he first saw the famous 8th Century clay figure of a Chinese Lohan or Buddhist saint.  At that time it was located in the main entrance hall of the British Museum, and if you don't know this astounding work you should try at least to locate a reproduction. <br />What this figure depicts is a human being who has realized his full human potential, a being utterly calm who looks at us from a depth of understanding that we can hardly begin to imagine. Prem reasoned that, if an artist could depict such poise, and if we are able to recognize and resonate to it, it must surely exist deep inside all of us, and he decided to set out to attain it for himself.<br />It was the 1920s, and after graduating from Cambridge where he had studied English, Pali and Sanskrit, he went to India where he had been offered a job as professor of English Literature at Lucknow University. Although he was liked by both the Indians and most English, and was enormously popular with his students, he was, as we may have surmised, a highly unconventional Englishman. <br />The fascinating story of his life in India, the remarkable Indians that he met, how he was led to become a Hindu initiate and devotee of the Krishna cult, and how he ended up building his own ashram and attaining realization may be read up in the thirty-page foreword to the book by his disciple and editor, Sri Madhava Ashish. <br />The remainder of this short book is taken up with nine essays by Sri Krishna Prem: Initiation into Yoga; Symbolism and Knowledge; The Sacred Marriage; The Forgotten Land; Doubts and their Removal; Past, Present and Future; Superstition; The Violence of War; and Religion and Philosophy. There are riches here, though I have time to touch only on part. <br />Prem was a remarkable man in every way, and one of his most striking characteristics was an intellect which could slice through all the thickets and tangles, obscurities and obfuscations, of even the most abstruse topic. Although these essays take up only a mere 100 pages, you will find more good sense and real understanding here than in a whole shelf or even many shelves of books. His grasp of the deepest matters was so sure that he was able to pierce to their heart and give us, in perfectly straightforward language, their essentials. <br />In contrast to the fully realized, most of us could hardly be considered to be human or even alive. The channels through which an abundance of love and energy and true understanding ought to be freely and vigorously coursing have become blocked; blocked by society, blocked by organized religion, blocked by other orthodoxies such as our reductionist and mechanistic science, and also, sad to say, blocked by our own laziness. Prem's book shows us how to clear away those blockages and open up those channels. It describes, in other words, a simple and easily understood method for becoming fully human, fully alive to the amazing reality both within and around us, though Prem takes great care to emphasize that it is a method that calls for very hard work and may take lifetimes.<br />The method is outlined, step by step, in 'Initiation into Yoga,' the essay from which the book takes its title, but you should not be misled by this title. The word 'Yoga' is used because Prem was writing in India for a largely Indian audience. Its appropriateness may be seen when we understand that the Sanskrit word 'yoga' is linguistically related to the English word 'yoke' and indicates a 'yoking' or uniting of self with what is highest in oneself. Consequently the essay could, with very few changes, just as easily have been given a Buddhist or Islamic or even Christian title, for Prem's position is that there is only One Self or Truth and that the greatest exemplars of all religions have reflected their experience of that One Truth in ways appropriate to their time and culture and using their own terminology.For Prem, the only sensible attitude to take towards the great variety of belief systems is the one expressed in the Rig Veda: &quot;The Real is one; men describe it in many ways&quot; (page 66).<br />Although Prem's formal affiliations were with the Vedantic Krishna Cult, he was, in other words, strikingly inclusive in his outlook, and his range of reference is amazingly wide; one is just as likely to find him quoting Buddhist scriptures as the Upanishads or Bhagavad Gita, Rumi as Meister Eckhart, or Plato and Plotinus as Alfred North Whitehead.<br />Most impressive of all is the truly enormous fund of sheer common sense that he brought to the central problem, the problem that confronts us all, no matter what our religious persuasion or whether indeed we have one. How do we become fully human? How do we set free those currents of love and energy and wisdom which ought to flow fully unimpeded through us but which in most have become blocked and stagnant?<br />Sri Krishna Prem's advice, as I have said, is simple and perfectly clear. He has given us a golden book. My advice would be to read it. I would follow it up with another golden book by another Englishman who lived in India, a book called 'On Having No Head' by Douglas Harding. These two books, both of which are brief and extremely well-written, complement each other beautifully. In their different ways they bring us an important solution to the same problem, the need we all have to &quot;reverse the arrow of attention.&quot; You would be wise not to miss either.	2001-03-10
US	50869571	R1OTGDQ3M54CFE	0873958306	607432669	The Bhagavad Gita (SUNY Series in Cultural Perspectives) (English and Sanskrit Edition)	Books	5	71	74	N	N	A unique and indispensable bilingual edition.	I long ago lost count of the different editions of the Bhagavad Gita that I have, but it must certainly be over twenty.  Of them I keep two constantly by my side, one of which is that by Winthrop Sargeant.  For lovers of the Gita who, even though they may be innocent of Sanskrit, would like to approach the text in its original language, a  language of great force and beauty, there could be no finer edition.<br />Each page is devoted to a single verse of the Gita and gives, in the left column, line by line - the Sanskrit text in Devanagari letters,  its transliteration, and a word by word literal translation.  Then  follows a prose translation of the entire verse with, at the bottom  of the page, occasional light annotations.  <br />In the right column we are given Sargeant's incredibly useful grammatical analysis of every single word.  This analysis, which also gives relevant English synonyms, is evidently a labor of love which  involved Sargeant in an enormous amount of work.  In the many bilingual  editions I have examined, I've never seen anything that even approached  it, and we should all be intensely grateful to Mr Sargeant for having, out of the goodness of his heart, provided us with such an invaluable tool.<br />If this book has a weakness, it is perhaps that the Devanagari script is printed in far too tiny a font; but, since it is immediately followed by transliteration into the Roman alphabet, no great harm is done.  Also, since Sargeant's edition has a linguistic orientation,  one will have to look elsewhere for a 'philosophic' commentary.<br />Readers who may be new to Sanskrit, and who would like to get a bit of grounding in the language before approaching the Bhagavad Gita, might take a look at Thomas Egenes, 'Introduction to Sanskrit' (1989).  There are many primers of Sanskrit on the market, but this is undoubtedly the best as not (like that, for example, of Michael Coulson) overloading the beginner with too much detail.  It also has the additionalmerit of printing the Devanagari letters in a large clear font, something that will be appreciated by anyone who has ever attempted to learn this difficult script.<br />Those who may already be comfortable with Devanagari, and who are looking for a bilingual edition of the Bhagavad Gita which, besides giving a word by word transliteration and translation, also gives a prose translation and full commentary, might look at the edition by Swami Gambhirananda with the commentary of Sankaracarya (1995).  This is the second edition that I keep constantly by my side, since the two serve to complement each other beautifully.	2001-03-01
US	50869571	R2580QBH1NFLS3	0874811651	682648195	Astavakra Samhita	Books	5	34	34	N	N	"The whole work has a magic of its own..."	This splendid, well-printed and inexpensive edition of the ASHTAVAKRA SAMHITA will perhaps appeal to those who have already read this short text, a text better known  as the 'Ashtavakra Gita,' in the translations of Hari Prasad Shastri (London: Shanti Sadan, 1992 ISBN 0 85424 028 4) or Ramesh S. Balsekar  ('A Duet of One' Los Angeles: Advaita Press, 1989 SBN 0 929488 11 1),  and who would like to deepen their acquaintance with it.    Its great advantage is that, whereas the edition of Shastri contains only a lightly annotated English translation, and that of Balsekar an  English translation along with his very full commentary, the present  edition also gives the Sanskrit text.    After a very fine introductory essay by Dr. Satkari Mookerjee, M.A., Ph.D., an essay to which I've often returned, Swami Nityaswarupananda then gives us the Sanskrit text in Devanagari, a literal word-by-word translation, a final literary translation, and full and detailed notes on all words and concepts of interest.  The book is rounded out with two indexes and can also be found at sriramakrishnamath.org.    In his introduction, Dr. Mookerjee explains that the 'Astavakra' is a very early and pure Advaitic text which gives us the essentials of the Advaita position while being wholly free of the scholastic over- -elaboration and hair-splitting logical argument which is found in so many later texts.      It is, in other words, not so much a technical philosophical treatise  as \\"an unfoldment of the ultimate Truth\\" (p.xiii) which takes the form  of a dialogue between King Janaka, earnest seeker of truth, and the enlightened sage Ashtavakra.    Taking up the question of how freedom is to be achieved, its message,  Dr. Mookerjee tells us, is simple:    'Know the Self as Pure Consciousness, the unaffected witness of the phenomenal world, and you will be free' (I.3).    I can't really do justice to Dr. Mookerjee's impressive introductory essay here.  In particular, what he has to say about the nature of reason and its real place in human thought should be read by everyone.       As for Swami Nityaswarupananda, he too is to be congratulated on having done a thoroughly competent job of making this beautiful and profound text available to us in its original language.  Even those who have little Sanskrit will now find it easy to make their way through the original text: the verses are short and simple, and, although the book lacks a guide to pronunciation, we have been given every other help.    If you are innocent of Sanskrit, my advice would be to first learn the Devanagari alphabet and then jump in.  Even having a little Sanskrit is better than having none, and what better way to learn the language than by soaking yourself in such a magical work?    But if you lack the time to get involved in Sanskrit, you will still find that the introduction, and the well-done translation with its  full notes, of great help in coming to grips with this valuable text. Along with those of Shastri and Balsekar I count it an indispensable edition, and I would agree with Shastri who has written:    \\"Each verse is a text for meditation; the whole work has a magic of its own, which elevates and exalts the mind and grants it glimpses of the transcendental region\\" (p.vii).	2001-02-26
US	50869571	R3B6XEXHTXBM2V	0929448111	22816046	Duet of One: The Ashtavakra Gita Dialogue	Books	5	151	155	N	N	Awakening to Oneself as the 'Not-Two.'	If you are reading these words, it means that you are one of the few who have somehow found their way to the 'Ashtavakra Gita.'  As such, you  should consider yourself extremely lucky, for it is one of the most profound and beautiful of all Indian texts and deserves to be far better known.  More familiar to Western readers, of course, is the 'Bhagavad  Gita,' no doubt because it resonates with those who are drawn to the  worship of a personal God.    The 'Ashtavakra,' in contrast, is a pure Advaita (a-dvaita) or non- dualistic text, a text which postulates the 'Not-two.'  In other words, for Advaita there is no devotee confronting a personal God - there is  only Self or the One.  Its initial appeal is therefore not so much to  the devotionally inclined as to the more intellectually inclined.    The 'Bhagavad Gita' exists in countless editions, but I'm familiar with  only three editions of the 'Ashtavakra.'  The first is an excellent translation, lightly annotated, by Hari Prasad Shastri [[ASIN:0854240284 Ashtavakra Gita]].  This is a slim book of just sixty pages and reads very well.    The second, the [[ASIN:8185301131 Astavakra Samhita]] by Swami Nityaswarupananda, is more for the advanced student.  After a stimulating introduction, we are given, verse-by-verse, the Sanskrit text in Devanagari, a word-by-word literal translation,  a final translation, detailed notes, and full commentary, all of which have been impeccably done.  This invaluable edition is available both from Amazon and sriramakrishnamath_dot_org    The third edition I keep constantly at hand is the present one,  'A Duet of One.'  Besides giving us another really fine translation,  Balsekar, who as a disciple of the late Nisargadatta Maharaj may be supposed to know what he's talking about, has also provided what must be the richest and fullest commentary currently  available in English.  The book is written in faultless English,  is well-printed on excellent paper, and is indispensable for anyone with a serious interest in the 'Ashtavakra.'    These ancient Indian texts, whether Vedantic such as the 'Ashtavakra Gita,' or Buddhist such as the Prajnaparamita 'Heart Sutra,' even when  quite short, are by no means easy to understand.  One could easily  spend a lifetime studying the original texts, their translations and  commentaries, and still end up no wiser.  Ultimately, what they demand  is not so much understanding as insight.  What is the 'Not-Two'?      Traditionally one reads, studies, and assimilates the text.  Then one meditates upon the text.  Then, after prolonged meditation, insight may come.  But meditation can take years, and we are busy and harassed modern folks.  Is there a simpler, easier, faster way of arriving at this insight?  Amazingly, there is.    If you really want to grasp what all these great Indian and Tibetan and Chinese and Japanese Masters and Sages and Rishis have been trying to convey to their disciples down through the centuries, all you need do is read a short book of just eighty pages by Douglas E. Harding called [[ASIN:1878019198 On Having No Head: Zen and the Rediscovery of the Obvious]]    Why, after these thousands of years, it should have been left to an Englishman to discover a simple mental act, an act which anyone can perform anywhere at any time and which unlocks the mystery of 'Not-Two,'  I have no idea.  But after spending more than twenty years puzzling my head over Oriental texts before finally discovering Harding, I can assure you that his instructions for \\"reversing the arrow of attention\\" really do work. Although this book is now out-of-print in the US, new copies at the original price seem to be still available at Harding's website headless_dot_org    Make Harding your Master.  Let him neatly sever your head.  Then return to Ramesh S. Balsekar's inspired treatment of the 'Ashtavkra' and you will find that the Not-Two is not a mystery any more.  For you will  have become it.	2001-02-23
US	50869571	R33T029Q8B2ZJM	0824802713	643495268	Advaita Vedanta : A Philosophical Reconstruction	Books	5	134	135	N	N	An excellent brief introduction to Advaita Vedanta.	For anyone who may have become curious about Advaita Vedanta, and who is looking for a good introduction to what many feel is one of the greatest philosophical achievements of either the East or West, there could be no better guide than this book.      Eliot Deutsch, professor of philosophy at the University of Hawaii and for many years editor of the prestigious journal, 'Philosophy East and West,' writes in a wonderfully lucid and straightforward style, and clearly admires his subject as being of universal philosophical interest.      In his short book of just 120 pages, he skilfully introduces us to the basic ideas of this complex system (Brahman, Levels of Being, Brahman and the World, Self, Karma, Epistemology, Ethics, Moksa and Jnana Yoga), while taking care to avoid overwhelming the reader with too much detail.      Advaita, we learn, is a non-dualistic system, expounded primarily by Sankara (ca. 788-820), the main concern of which is to show that all boundaries and distinctions are unreal,  that reality is not made up of parts, and that \\"in essence it is not-different from the Self\\" (p.3).  There is, in other words, only  the Self, Brahman, or the One, a state \\"which is ultimately a name for the timeless plenitude of being\\" (p.9).      If this seems difficult, think of a movie screen.  Any scene projected upon the screen will  seem to hold a multiplicity of clearly defined and separate objects: a man, a woman, a child, a dog, a table, chairs, walls, windows, etc.  We know, however, that the picture is one.  Now consider what is present at the moment in your own field of vision.  It too 'seems' to contain a multiplicity of 'objects'...    In reading this book I was impressed, not only by the clarity of  the author's   style and by his lucid treatment of the subject, but also by the fact that, although his approach to the subject is that of a philosopher, he clearly respects Vedanta as being both a way of spiritual realization as well as a system of thought, areligion as well as technical philosophy.    Eliot Deutsch, in short, has given us a book which is fair-minded, scholarly, and extremely well-written.  It is also well-documented and has an excellent bibliography.  Those who might wish to further deepen their understanding of Vedanta might consider looking at 'A Duet of One - The Ashtavakra Gita Dialogue' (Advaita Press: CA, 1989. ISBN: 0929448111), a fine translation by Ramesh S. Balsekar of an  amazing and beautiful short early Advaita text which deserves to be better known: [[ASIN:0929448111 Duet of One: The Ashtavakra Gita Dialogue]]	2001-02-17
US	50869571	R29ELEAPL3532N	0300057717	242103176	Learn to Write Chinese Characters (Yale Language Series)	Books	5	75	78	N	N	A book perfect in its kind	This book should be at the head of everyone's list, since it is devoted to a skill which almost all sinologists neglect, whether professional or amateur, and yet is one that is the source of enormous pleasure and gratification - the ability to form Chinese Characters (Jpn. kanji) well.  It is a short manual of just 122 pages which, after a brief account of the history and structure of characters, some instruction on how to look them up in a dictionary, and a little about their aesthetics, goes on to teach the user all of the main strokes by using the radicals as models.  The book ends with a short list of suggested readings, and a brief guide to Chinese pronunciation. Unlike most other manuals of Chinese Calligraphy, which teach the student how to write with the traditional brush, this teaches the art of writing with a pen, and the models Bjorksten provides for copying, unlike those in many other manuals written for Westerners, are excellent.  A book perfect in its kind, and not to be missed.	2001-02-04
