US	50878358	R1W6J3E31PHQ8P	0399146172	908947960	The Devil Riding	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dirt Behind the Glitter	Wesley's new book is set in the ersatz glitter of Atlantic City but deprivation and cruelty aren't far away.  While people are dropping quarters into slot machines and high rollers are luxuriating in lavish  suites, runaway kids are trying to make a home for themselves in the shadow  of all that greed.<br />Tamara Hayle's looking for a rich runaway here, and  her empathy for kids is in full play.  She's not your typical crusty PI,  but she is hard-working and despite the dangers, you see her job as just  that: work that puts bread on the table.<br />She's appealing; the villain's  well worth hissing at; the romantic interest is Billy Dee Williams-hot--but  the author's best creations are the kids, whether rich or poor, who've been  treated so badly. All that and a fast-moving story make for a fine read,  though the writing needed a firmer editorial hand.<br />	2000-08-30
US	50878358	RCG60QIAB7V77	0393046354	449832006	Eve of Destruction: (A Harry Devlin Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intriguing	Harry Devlin's a Liverpool lawyer who's also a &quot;recidivist amateur sleuth....as keen on mysteries as some people are on sex.&quot;  He can't help his  passion for solving mysteries: violent or unexpected death has  been part of his experience since he was a little boy.  In Eve of  Destructionit comes to him--improbably--through tape  recordings.<br />Liverpool is &quot;England's largest village&quot; so  Devlin's used to running into people he knows.  But even he's surprised  when a client seeking a divorce plays Devlin tapes he recorded of his wife  on the phone with her lover.   Devlin recognizes the man's voice and starts  his own investigation without telling his client what he knows.  Before  long everything starts to come out in the wake of brutal murders which  point directly at his client. <br />Devlin's client is a landscaper with a  talent for building mazes, and Devlin finds himself lost in a maze of lust  and rage.  Eve of Destruction is an engaging no-frills mystery with  characters you can care about and an enjoyably complex plot.<br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman  mystery.	2000-08-23
US	50878358	R2YW2QO3QK84PP	0553573527	504179075	Empire of the Ants	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fascinating, but mildly Flawed	Have you ever watched an ant colony outdoors or on TV, fascinated by its dizzying activity?  Then this is the novel for you, and you're likely to read it in one sitting.<br />Werber's fantasy, set in the next century in  Paris, imagines communication between humans and ants.  But that's not the  best part of this book. The author takes you behind the scenes, as it were,  into an enormous confederation of ant colonies with its own history, laws,  and legends.  You'll never be able to watch ants again after reading this  book without wishing you could somehow eavesdrop on their  communication.<br />Empire of the Ants is filled with exciting scenes of ants  scouting, hunting, doing battle, nursing, mating, defending themselves  against birds, and just living their everyday lives.  It's all amazingly  complex and as Werber sees it, there are fascinating parallels with human  behavior--and crucial differences.  Perhaps most intriguing is his view  that the Queen has limited power, and that new leaps forward in the ant  world, the Earth's &quot;second great civilization,&quot; arise from  &quot;working groups&quot; in intensely close chemical communication  responding to a crisis.    While it's deeply absorbing to read about  ant behaviors of all kinds, it's odd that now and then Werber's ants refer  to other ants as &quot;people.&quot;  A bigger problem  is that the ants  and their world are consistently more interesting than the book's human  characters.  Unless that's Werber's point!<br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman  mystery.	2000-08-23
US	50878358	R1CR5U2BBXAIUU	0312253826	259015169	Elegy for Iris	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Powerful and Sad	If you've lost a loved one to dementia, whether caused by Alzheimer's or strokes, you know that this dreadful change in your life can be--as a woman in Elegy for Iris notes so terribly--like &quot;being chained to a  corpse.&quot;  You may feel you exist in a perpetual state of mourning, and  release seems impossibly distant since the process of degeneration can last  for a decade, fifteen years, or more.<br />Four years ago before this book was  published, Alzheimer's began to chip away at  acclaimed novelist Iris  Murdoch and she started to lose memories, associations and connection with  herself.  Her husband of forty years, English critic John Bayley, has  written a memoir about this escalating series of losses that is imbued with  admiration, love, and gentle humor.  Bayley compellingly interweaves  descriptions of his wife's sad deterioration with stories of their  courtship and long, contented marriage.  What is remarkable about this  narrative (which needed better editing, however), is that despite the very  real tragedy of Alzheimer's, he is not bitter or self-pitying, and what  links him and his wife now is anything but a chain. <br />Murdoch and Bayley  seem to have given each other the freedom to live complete lives, however  they needed to, and that freedom was a profound tie.  &quot;We were  together because we were comforted and reassured by the solitariness each  saw and was aware of in the other,&quot; he observes.  And tracing their  growing love for one another, he makes one envy the balance they found  between separateness and companionship (which counterpoints their domestic  squalor).  From the earliest days onward, marriage and solitude were not  contradictions for them.  They could &quot;be closely and physically  entwined, and yet feel solitude's friendly presence, as warm and  undesolating as contiguity itself.&quot;<br />All that reverberates strangely  with the ways in which Murdoch now is shut off from him far more than she  ever was asa creative artist, but seems to need the constant reassurance  of his presence.  She is like a child hungry for attention, but unable to  communicate clearly, and sometimes needs to be gently shooed away so that  he can have time to himself.  Yet she returns, anxious, needful.  Sometimes  her confusions drive him into a rage, but she often responds to these  outbursts with the same ameliorative calm she always had.<br />Given their  long, happy marriage, Bayley and Murdoch's first meetings were comically  inauspicious.  In his late twenties and a graduate student teaching at  Oxford after World War II, Bailey spied Murdoch bicycling past one day  looking grumpy, grim, and not entirely attractive.  Yet for Bailey, she was  almost an apparition, a woman existing only in the moment--and for him  alone.  But his instantaneous fantasies were soon crushed when he met her  at a party and realized she was merely another teacher.  How ordinary!   Worse still, she was clearly a popular and magnetic woman with many friends  (and not a few lovers, he would learn).  Though he tried, he never managed  to make conversation with her that night, and when his next opportunity  came at a dinner, he was daunted by the seriousness with which this  philosophy teacher considered his most casual remarks. <br />On their first  date he was oddly shocked by her brilliant red brocade dress which struck  him as inappropriate for her, and she managed to fall down stairs as they  entered a ball.  But not much later they were laughing and sharing  childhood confidences, and it's thanks to their childlike joy that the  bonds between them were first knit, lasting even into her Alzheimer's.   Rather miraculously, humor survives between them,  even now that her memory  has faded, leaving her incapable of finishing sentences and often lost in a  state of &quot;vacant despair.&quot; Bayley can still make Murdoch smile  with silly jokes and rhymes.  There's so much love (and quiet suffering) in  Bayley'sobservation that a smile &quot;transforms her face, bringing it  back to what it was, and with an added glow that seems supernatural.&quot;  <br />Murdoch's kindness, her affability, her lack of egotism about her career  make for  odd continuity with the generally sweet-natured woman she is  under the spell of Alzheimer's, and Bayley's deep appreciation of these  excellent qualities seems to undergird his current devotion. Time and  again, the author makes the best of a bitter situation, and even finds  aspects of it enjoyable.  He manages, for instance,  to find something  delightful in regularly watching the British children's show  &quot;Teletubbies&quot; with her.  But all his fond memories and his loving  attention to her in the present cannot veil the especial cruelty of  watching a sharp-minded and fertile novelist &quot;sail into the  darkness,&quot; as Murdoch puts it herself in a moment of lucidity.   <br />Among various literary subjects, Bayley has written about Henry James,  and Elegy for Iris richly and warmly demonstrates a truth affirmed by a  character in James's The Ambassadors: &quot;The only safe thing is to  give--it's what plays you least false.&quot; <br />Lev Raphael,   author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman  mystery.	2000-08-23
US	50878358	R1H938T5RN297S	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Buyer, Beware!	Writers like James Patterson are brands more than authors.  Thanks to instant name recognition, their books aren't so much bought as grabbed and gobbled like candy bars.  <br />That product familiarity explains the  1-million copy first printing and $1-million advertising campaign for James  Patterson's new theological thriller.<br />But it's not exactly new.  It's a  rewrite of his out-of-print 1980 &quot;Virgin&quot; that includes scenes  and characters from the previous book.   I haven't read the first version,  but this one reads like a first draft in an uninspired freshman college  creative writing class.<br />The concept is mildly intriguing.  In a very  vague atmosphere of famine, plagues and worldwide turmoil, two girls--one  in rural Ireland, one in Boston--are mysteriously pregnant even though they  have been medically proven to be virgins.  Is this the fulfillment of a  divine prophesy about the simultaneous birth of God's son and the Devil's  son?  <br />Written in short paragraphs and short chapters, the book reads  quickly but still seems too long.  That's because the characters, settings,  and  scenes are so sketchy they feel like they've merely been outlined and  left for filling in later on by someone with more talent. <br />Patterson has  no ear for dialogue and overuses exclamation points to help mask the  absence of real terror or excitement--the kind of flaw you find in student  writers.  But then his writing is amateurish throughout.  A sky is  described as &quot;quite epic-looking&quot; and here's a housekeeper's  supposedly terrifying vision: &quot;She'd glimpsed rising, licking,  gold-and-crimson flames. She'd glimpsed the terrifying flames of  Hell.&quot;  Scary stuff, huh?<br />I'm not a big fan of Patterson's  best-selling Alex Cross novels, but even those are more vividly written  than this anemic, dreary book bound for the best seller list thanks to a  name that could probably sell anything with words in it no matter how badly  writtenit was.<br />Lev Raphael (Levraphael.com), author of LITTLE MISS  EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery	2000-08-22
US	50878358	R36H73MJ9118TN	0671897527	986759686	Digging Up Momma	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Lots of Fun	It's one thing to be a reporter and write American Weird, a book that collects bizarre true-life stories--it's another to have your own life turn into one.  That's what happens to cranky, lonely Samantha Adams, a New Orleans orphan and recovering alcoholic whose life has been plagued by   loss and fear of commitment.  At 42,  she's stunned to receive a letter  from her mother that summons her to Santa Fe: Samantha's parents died in a  French plane crash over three decades ago.<br />Samantha rushes right out  there, but after a too-brief meeting that answers few questions, her  mother's found dead.  Suicide?  Murder?  Why did her mother abandon her in  the first place?  Why has her mother adopted aliases and why do some people  in Santa Fe disclaim knowing her?  The slam bang finale offers a very  satisfying solution to all these questions.<br />In the spirit of Carl  Hiassen, DIGGING UP MOMMA offers a diverting mix of art dealers, tourists,  hucksters, mobsters, dreams and visions.  Shankman ably captures the  wonderful diversify of Santa Fe, and the intense magnetism and color of  northern New Mexico where &quot;the bizarre, the weird, and the miraculous  are the rule.&quot;<br />And despite the uneven writing, this is a breezy  quick read with just the right dashes of feistiness to keep it from  becoming overly sentimental.  That's especially important when the book  features an annoyingly cute Shih Tzu named Harpo and a precocious child.   <br />Lev Raphael (Levraphael.com), author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th  Nick Hoffman mystery.	2000-08-22
US	50878358	RGVI0ODI7GNH0	0684855135	588044605	The Last Dance: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Great Series Falters--But Look at its Run!	People joke about the work ahead of Sue Grafton with her Alphabet series: imagine writing 11 more novels to make 26 novels in her series!<br />Well, Ed McBain's already got her beat.  The Last Dance is the fiftieth book in his  series set in the fictional 87th Precinct in a city a lot like New York and  McBain's is the country's longest-running mystery series. <br />&quot;The Last  Dance&quot; gets off to a strong start when a woman calls in the death of  her father, and what looks like a suicide she tried to cover up for  insurance purposes is clearly murder.  As you'd expect from McBain, there's  the same tight writing, and the same nagging, bragging and competition  between cops.  For McBain, the whole precinct is his protagonist and the  best thing in his books besides the palpable reality of police work has  always been McBain's crackling, deadpan dialogue that can seem slightly  empty and ridiculous like some of John Travolta's conversations in  &quot;Pulp Fiction,&quot; but is terribly real and sometimes ominous.  <br />McBain owes a surprising debt to Agatha Christie. His first book in the  series, &quot;Cop Hater,&quot; used a plot device from one of Christie's  most famous early novels, and his series demonstrates the same fuzziness  about aging she showed with Hercule Poirot.  Though McBain makes references  in &quot;The Last Dance&quot; to the late 1990s, his cop Carella is  only  about forty now, fifty years after he first appeared in &quot;Cop  Hater&quot; as somewhere in his twenties.   But there are bigger  problems with &quot;The Last Dance.&quot;  It's too long and the edge isn't  there; that shows up most in the story line itself.  We're supposed to  believe that several murders take place over a proposed Broadway show that  could possibly be a hit and make a fortune.  This ridiculous longshot is  just not enough of a motive, though the book churns away at trying to make  it work.  McBain seems to have lost his feel for urban reality.<br />His  satire of his theater types is also pretty slack.  Bob Sloan's recent  &quot;Bliss Jumps the Gun&quot; offers far more entertainment in this  regard, and William Caunitz's picture of a cop's life in &quot;Chains of  Command&quot; is more compelling.  Still, you have to give McBain credit  for keeping the series going this long.<br />Lev Raphael (Levraphael.com),  author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery.	2000-08-22
US	50878358	R35SC55VLY6QD1	0679740856	770684642	Byron: Child of Passion, Fool of Fame	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Novelistic and Deeply Entertaining	The man who gave our language the essential term &quot;Byronic&quot; was as keen a student of publicity as the most contemporary of authors. In fact, he still holds the record for selling more copies of a book in one  day than any other poet: 10,000. <br />Lord Byron could work the press and  influential audiences because he was always conscious of the  interconnections between his image and his writing.  Dualities came  naturally though painfully to him, as we learn in Benita Eisler's  lusciously detailed, triumphantly evocative new biography which reveals him  in all his deeply flawed glory. <br />A beautiful, charismatic man, Byron felt  his clubfoot was a mark of Cain, but his lameness disappeared in the water  where he was a swimmer famed for his prowess, and happy to brag about it.   Sometimes quite shy in society (and a dud as a Member of Parliament), he  could also be a coruscating speaker who not only won hearts and admiration,  but ignited fierce passions and deep envy.<br />When Byron gained someone's  love, he often seemed eager to move on and could often seem heartless;  cynicism came easily to one of England's greatest satiric poets. But  perhaps the most significant duality in his life was sexual, which played  out most intensely on his post-Cambridge Grand Tour in the Balkans where he  reveled in partners of both sexes.  There, he was also inspired to later  aid Greece's independence from Turkey, and he died in the effort. <br />It  would have been easy to write about Byron's  personality and lose the focus  on his work: he was after all amazingly bawdy, moody, paranoid, witty,  free-thinking, mawkish, puritanical, loving, cruel. His life was wracked  with dramatic scandal, most notably the dangerous liaison with his married  half-sister Augusta, which continued after his marriage, likewise a  disaster. Fleeing England and disgrace, he always looked back to it for  verification of his success, but became a greater and more dedicated poet  in exile.<br />Even if you're not familiar with the range of Byron's poetry  beyond &quot;She Walks in Beauty,&quot; this meticulous, entertaining and  vivid biography will inspire you to read many of the quotations aloud and  seek out the full texts.  So Byron's poems--especially his comic  masterpiece &quot;Don Juan&quot;--live here as richly as do the varied  voices of his amazingly vivid and justly famous letters.<br />Lev Raphael,  author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery.	2000-08-19
US	50878358	RKNELSLVZPLW2	0385487061	531002124	Booth: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Evocative, but not Gripping Enough	One man involved in the conspiracy to assassinate Abraham Lincoln was acquitted.  Based on contemporary diaries, reminiscences, and court  transcripts, biographer David Robertson attempts to tell lowly John  Surratt's story in the historical novel Booth, set in 1916 and in the last  days of the Civil War.<br />The action begins as D.W. Griffith is premiering  his 1916 movie &quot;Birth of a Nation&quot; in Washington, D.C. where he  arranges a meeting with the aged Surratt, who has long kept silent about  his role in Lincoln's death.  Griffith, a publicity hound, would like to  get Surratt on film sharing reminiscences and photographs of the Civil War.   For Griffith, Surratt is pure gold: a chance to further claim the  spotlight and publicize his film.  <br />But Surratt is torn, having lived  most of his adult life anonymously after the tragic events surrounding  Lincoln's assassination.  Through his diary, we learn exactly how he was  drawn into the conspiracy in 1864, and the tale takes some exciting and  even grotesque turns before reaching its predictable conclusion in  1916.<br />Character development is not Robertson's strength and the book is  filled with stick figures, including Surratt's own as an ingenuous young  man.  More importantly, until near the end, Booth himself is pretty much an  enigma in the book.  Though he is supposed to be charismatic, Robertson  hasn't demonstrated that by giving us a rich, living character.<br />The  author's skills as a writer lie elsewhere: He brings to teeming and  fascinating life a Washington DC (Washington City in the book) as distant  to us in its own way as Ancient Rome.  It's a city with a half-finished  Washington Monument and a Capitol dome under construction.  A city where a  traffic jam is caused by troops in transit colliding with cattle being  driven to market; where the smell of produce and corpses mingles; where  officers (but not their troops) enjoy nudie tableaux vivants in grimy  saloons.<br />Since the beginning of the war, Washington City has been flooded  with prostitutes who offer momentary forgetfulness of the horrors of war,  and with mediums who offer contact with the dead.  &quot;In the midst of so  much death, shipped from the battlefields by the Union army in the tens of  thousands each year.... and the daily arrival in the city of so many  distraught family members and spouses desperate for contact with a loved  one, these people made a very good living.&quot;  There's a dramatic and  intriguing scene of a medium being unmasked as a fraud here.<br />The novel's  most gripping sequence is a trip to the nearby battlefront in Virginia to  photograph Confederate dead.  Most fascinating of all, Robertson brings us  in on the contemporary craze for portrait photography that reaches even  into the White House.  We learn a great deal about the mid-century  art and  science of working with a camera indoors and in the open air.  By taking  some clever liberties with the historical record, he makes photography  central to his story.  Booth is unexpectedly full of evocative details and  insights into what the craze meant and how it changed Americans.   Lev  Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery  ([...]	2000-08-19
US	50878358	ROCFHAXYN24C9	0312969120	499280276	Body Language	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Memorable Characters	Miami-based Alexandra Rafferty's been on the run for eighteen years because she killed the neighbor boy who raped her and her father helped cover up the crime.  These horrific events when she was eleven have  overshadowed her entire childhood. <br />A police crime scene photographer,  she's kept the world at bay with karate, &quot;the art of deflecting human  touch,&quot; but feelings can't stay submerged forever.  Her marriage to a  thuggish ex- jock is dying and her father's Alzheimer's is dragging her  down. Everything blows up when her husband, a Brinks truck driver and true  crime buff, plans a heist.<br />Readers will be intrigued to see the sparkling  town in &quot;The Truman Show&quot;--Seaside, Florida--play a major role in  the novel, but Hall's attempt at an Elmore Leonard or Carl Hiassen mix of  crime and comedy doesn't always work.  Still, Body Language is a  well-written thriller, and Alexandra and her father make a surprisingly  appealing pair. ...	2000-08-19
US	50878358	R1VSGBZ5VMO28X	0374119570	973254123	Casanova: The Man Who Really Loved Women	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Hypnotic and Masterful!	Casanova.  The word denotes a charming but unscrupulous libertine, a man without a soul whose love-making is really a well-disguised hatred of women.  And for those of us old enough to remember Bob Hope's movie  &quot;Casanova's Big Night,&quot; the word also conjures up bedroom farce  and foolish swordplay.<br />Wipe all that from your mind.  In Lydia Flem's  stunning interpretive biography, Casanova emerges as a complex and learned  man of deep feeling, kind, generous, questing.  Oh yes, he was devoted to  beautiful women and craved sex, but the women he was drawn to had to be  witty and intellectual or he couldn't delight in them.  And his enjoyment  was not at all callous, for the relationships he treasured incorporated  &quot;lightness, cheerfulness, and reciprocal pleasure,&quot; according to  Flem who also says that Casanova was anything but a misogynist.   &quot;Never to harm a mistress, never to arouse her anger of  disappointment, never to make her suffer from their affair in any way--that  is what he consistently aspired to.&quot;<br />Flem's short but intense,  savory book is in effect a brilliantly poetic gloss on the massive memoir  (Histoire de ma vie) Casanova was able to begin writing at 64 thanks to his  lifelong habit of keeping journal notes, letters and copies of letters.  He  wrote it in the &quot;third act&quot; of his life when he'd &quot;thrown  away or squandered everything he once owned.  He [had] no woman, no  fortune, no house, no homeland.&quot;  In his time, he'd been a friar, a  law student, a physician, a translator, a magician, an alchemist, a  publisher, a theatrical impresario, an orchestral violinist, a mine  inspector, an author, a spy, the co-creator of Europe's first lottery, and  of course a lover of many women, often more than one at a time, and  occasionally in family groupings: sisters, or mother and  daughter.<br />Casanova had &quot;a stubborn taste for happiness.&quot;  He  lived for pleasure, particularly to give it, and the paths thereto were as  multifarious as the bizarre, colorful twists and turns in Casanova's  picaresque life.  He was extravagant with his lovers, showering them with  whatever luxuries he could afford--clothes, jewels, banquets--entertaining  them in high style.  Enormously well-traveled and exiled from his Venetian  home, he belonged to &quot;that vast country without frontiers where people  speak and think in French: the Europe of conversation and  gallantry.&quot;<br />But as all that eventually slipped away from him, he  realized that through language, he could turn himself into a work of art,  into something immortal.  By writing his memoir, he would &quot;make his  life an insolent demonstration of the reality of pure pleasure and, even  more insolently, of the enduring existence of happiness in  remembrance.&quot;<br />This witty, cultured, and sensitive man had a very  strange childhood.  Plagued with massive nosebleeds that threatened his  life, he'd been ignored by his actor parents who believed him to be a  &quot;quasi-imbecile.&quot;  Yet once this bleeding was cured (by  witchcraft, perhaps?), he blossomed into a precocious  scholar who could  charm adults with repartee in Latin.  Still, the virtual abandonment by his  parents always rankled and as Flem sees it, he sought to be dazzling on the  world's stage so as to constantly earn his mother's favor, and enjoyed  flouting authority as a way of perpetually thumbing his nose at his father.   These two imperatives animated everything he did, along with a need to  cover up his commonplace background. <br />These conclusions and Flem's other  observations about Casanova do not in any way reduce him to a psychological  schematic--rather, she interprets his rich life with depth and acuity,  making him glow.  In an age of &quot;pathographies&quot; which sketch the  decline and fall of notable people in as much grim detail as possible, what  a delight to encounter a biographer who doesn't just love hersubject, but  revels in him and his world.  Weaving in short but powerfully apposite  excerpts from Casanova's 12-volume memoir, Flem not only takes you for a  journey into a man's soul, but opens up the people and manners of the  wildly extravagant middle and late 18th century. <br />The writing in Casanova  is so ravishingly beautiful that it's a shock to remember you're reading a  translation from the French.  Equally as surprising is the fact that the  author is a psychoanalyst and yet instead of jargon, Casanova is filled  with poetry.  This is a sumptuous and dazzling work, a feast of a book and  easily one of the most entertaining and revelatory biographies I've read in  years.  <br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman  mystery	2000-08-19
US	50878358	R1AJFIRG92MRTX	0395835852	937603272	The Best American Mystery Stories 1998 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Very Solid!	Sue Grafton introduces this entertaining collection with an important disclaimer.  The stories she's picked from mystery magazines and other sources as different as Playboy and the Kenyon Review aren't all quite  mysteries in the classical sense. Rather, reflecting a change in the genre  that series editor Otto Penzler  notes in his Foreword, they're stories  whose central feature is simply a crime or a criminal of one kind or  another.  And sometimes the criminality is handled in an  &quot;offbeat&quot; way.<br />Dave Shaw's well-told &quot;Twelve Days out of  Traction&quot; takes us into a petty criminal's mind with amusing results.   His narrator runs an insurance scam where he stages falls and his fake  lawyer friends write threatening letters that earn his little consortium  good money.  But it's painful work--as the title indicates--and sometimes  he can get surprisingly upstaged. Lawrence Block's intriguing &quot;Keller  on the Spot&quot; offers a different twist.  Keller's a contract killer  sent to Dallas to murder a millionaire, but he ironically ends up becoming  involved in the man's life in ways he could never have expected. <br />David  Ballard's tricky &quot;Child Support&quot; imagines the devilish depths to  which battling spouses can sink when their marriage collapses. Helen  Tucker's rather predictable &quot;The Power of Suggestion&quot; also  explores the modern marriage battleground, drawing equally disturbing  conclusions about marital happiness and what it drives people to.  But  Merrill Joan Gerber paints a much brighter picture of family life, one so  rich and fulfilling that it inspires more than envy in &quot;This is a  Voice from Your Past.&quot;<br />Two standouts in which dogs play pivotal  roles are Walter Mosley's simmering excerpt from Always Outnumbered, Always  Outgunned and Pat Jordan's ominous and richly-detailed gun-running tale,  &quot;Beyond Dog.&quot;  Jordan's story is set in Florida, as is John  Lutz's brooding &quot;NightCrawlers&quot; and together with Margaret  Maron's deeply satisfying &quot;Prayer for Judgment,&quot; this triad  offers the collection's most absorbing use of atmosphere.<br />The stories in  this anthology use American settings with three notable exceptions. Peter  Robinson's evocative &quot;The Two Ladies of Rose Cottage&quot; is set in  Yorkshire and surprisingly centers around Thomas Hardy. Taking place in  today's London, Edward D. Hoch's quietly clever &quot;The Old Spies  Club&quot; answers a question that has possessed international thriller  writers in the wake of the Soviet Union's collapse: where's the beef?  Hoch  finds his subject in imagining a Cold War-era secret about to escape, and  the somewhat hapless attempts to keep that from happening.  Best-selling  thriller writer John Lescroart ably fills in a blank in the Sherlock Holmes  canon, giving life to Watson's passing comment about a &quot;missing  story.&quot;  His rousing &quot;The Giant Rat of Sumatra&quot; launches  Holmes against his old nemesis Moriarity, who threatens the world with a  very contemporary evil.  <br />The biographical notes at the end of the book  also include the authors'  reports on the genesis of their stories, and in  some cases, these little narratives are as captivating as the stories  themselves--or more so...	2000-08-19
US	50878358	RDVFMJXQI16UJ	015600769X	427489038	Casanova in Love (Harvest Book)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Lush Life	Lydia Flem's stunning, intense biography &quot;Casanova: the Man Who Loved Women&quot; revealed him to be anything but a shallow, woman-hating libertine.  This wildly generous autodidact, who was devoted to pleasure of  all kinds, did indeed enjoy sex, but not mindlessly: he reveled in women  who were intelligent and witty.<br />Andrew Miller's lush, enthralling new  novel is a wonderful companion piece to Flem's work. Starting late in  Casanova's life when he was a virtual exile in Switzerland, surrounded by  his memories, the book flashes back to a romantic misadventure in London.   Living amid the &quot;grubby and melancholy&quot; English, a  40ish  Casanova was surprisingly gulled and tormented by a woman he was hoping to  seduce.<br />Though based on Casanova's memoirs as Flem's book was, Miller's  Casanova is more depressed and world-weary (and thus less original).  But  just as adeptly as Flem did, Miller evokes Casanova's amazingly complex  life and paints a scintillating, evocative, erotic portrait of the  extravagant 18th century.<br />Lev Raphael, author of  LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery.	2000-08-19
US	50878358	REJFA8JW4NXBE	0670891657	489212182	Blanche Passes Go	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This Book is a Marvel	Glory Be!  Success has not spoiled Barbara Neely.  This newouting for Blanche is even richer and and more powerful than the previous books.  And funny, too.  Girlfriend can WRITE.<br />What I marvel over with this book is that Neely can tackle serious topics without hectoring or even lecturing.  Blanche reflects on racial tensions, class divisions, gender inequality, the horrible legacy of rape--but not in a dry, intellectualized way.  It all comes from Blanche's big heart and questioning mind. Neely makes her a woman you'd love to sit and talk to for hours (though maybe not at her momma's house).<br />I won't talk about the plot because other people will do that, but let me say that this book isn't just a fine mystery novel, it's important, and it's deep. This is a book to share with family and friends.<br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL...	2000-08-19
US	50878358	R1PS6K8B52GIGZ	0399145877	953931509	Hugger Mugger: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Who's Chandler's Heir?	Not many graduate students see their dissertations lead to a steady slot on the best seller list.   But that's what happened to Robert Parker, whose latest Parker novel &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot; continues almost thirty years  of writing novels widely compared to Raymond Chandler's.<br />Chandler is of  course the gold standard in American crime fiction, which is why  &quot;Chandleresque&quot; is the ultimate accolade, though it seems to be  used as often these days as the film reviewer's &quot;Has Oscar written all  over it.&quot;<br />Still, Robert Parker does have a pretty strong claim to  being Chandler's &quot;heir.&quot;  Before Parker started writing his  best-selling novels, Chandler was the subject of his dissertation.  Later,  the Chandler estate asked Parker to complete an unfinished Chandler  manuscript--&quot;Poodle Springs&quot;--and he's even written a sequel to   Chandler's &quot;The Big Sleep.&quot;<br />Many readers will know Parker's  books from their TV adaptation in Robert Urich's popular &quot;Spenser: For  Hire.&quot;  Parker is famed for his lean prose and sharp dialogue, and  &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot; won't disappoint you there at all, even though  Spenser's sidekick Hawk isn't present this time out.<br />Parker's been hired  in &quot;Hugger Mugger&quot; by Walter Clive, a rich and powerful Georgian  stable owner, to find out why his horses are being shot.  Armed with his  cynicism, and aided by his psychoanalyst girlfriend Susan's advice,   Boston-based Parker wades into the murky depths of local corruption and the  bizarre family dynamics of the tanned, gleaming teethed Clive family, which  is full of &quot;drunks, liars, and fornicators.&quot;<br />The contrast of  tough but tender Parker with all the southern gentility and corruption is a  good one, as is his steady devotion to Susan with the murky relationships  he finds among the Clives.<br />&quot;Hugger Mugger's&quot; humor is wry, the  story compelling, the writing icepick sharp.  Ifat times the repartee can  seem overly stylized--given that almost everyone is equally  quick-witted--the book moves so swiftly thanks to the terse dialogue and  short chapters that it's hard to object.<br />Parker may have the better track  record in terms of sales and renown, but in the Chandler sweepstakes, my  money's still on the Amos Walker mysteries written by Loren D. Estleman.  ...	2000-08-17
US	50878358	R2Q9WLSAICBORT	0316782475	728951005	The Dangerous Husband: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deliciously, delirously funny	When the unnamed 40ish photographer in Jane Shapiro's &quot;The Dangerous Husband&quot; meets her novelist husband-to-be, she finds him instantly attractive. Dennis is handsome, bright, eager, affectionate.  He's even  more sympathetic for having been bounced from a teaching job because of  some academic turmoil.  And he's rich, with his own Greek Revival home in  an elegant Brooklyn neighborhood.<br />If all that weren't enough, they meet  at a low-key but lustrous Manhattan dinner party where the gleaming old  family silver (&quot;bought at a yard sale in Maine&quot;) lends weight and  beauty to the simplest moment, the shallowest remark.<br />It sure doesn't  hurt that she discovers he's also well-hung and a &quot;vehement&quot;  lover: &quot;meaty, zealous, headlong.&quot;  So she moves in with him,  lock, stock and Leica, and they're soon married, despite vague warnings  from friends.<br />But the endearing moment their first evening when he was  spilling wine on himself blossoms into domestic chaos on a scale both  intimate and epic.  Dennis grows increasingly disheveled, as if he were an  abandoned building battered by vandals, plumbing stripped, walls defaced by  graffiti.   <br />In the middle of a frustrating spell working on his novel,  if he kicks a wastebasket, it'll knock over a lamp, books will pour from  shelves and a table will collapse.  He has &quot;circus genes&quot;; he's  constantly spilling and breaking things, tripping, falling, injuring  himself and his wife with all the implacability of an advancing, cruel  blizzard that destroys all landmarks.  Is he perhaps the &quot;conduit...of  something inexorably malignant&quot;?<br />Friends abandon them, and his wife  begins to feel more and more endangered, especially after Dennis vaguely  warns her that he won't let her leave. Afraid that she'll be wiped out  sooner or later by Dennis's unconscious destructiveness, she  hires someone  to kill him.   Shapiro wittily makes the killer a calm, thoughtful novelist  who only moonlights as a hitman.<br />Hiring him makes you realize--with an  almost  delighted frisson--how cruel Dennis's wife is in her own way.  All  through the novel she's &quot;documenting&quot; moments around her by  photographing them, but you realize it's a substitution for and defense  against real experience.  In the middle of a furious argument, she finds  herself longing for her camera--a very revealing, sad wish.<br />Yet for all  the hilarious freakishness in their marriage, &quot;The Dangerous  Husband&quot; realistically  charts a course that many people will  recognize.  Well before their bumpy bliss turns into a Mack Sennett farce  complete with an out-of-control, goofy dog, and then a domestic version of  &quot;Scream,&quot; she's prey to doubts that might torment any new spouse:    &quot;Is this what marriage is? Discoveries and discoveries, changes and  changes, until everything you had is gone?&quot; Luckily for most couples,  it's their illusions that are in danger, not their lives.<br />&quot;The  Dangerous Husband&quot; is surprising, sad, hilarious, cynical and  romantic.  It's  so artfully written you'll want to read passages  aloud--and watch your step.<br />Lev Raphael [...], author of  LITTLE MISS EVIL, the 4th Nick Hoffman mystery	2000-08-16
US	50878358	RVM09M03W1WB5	037550334X	2243911	Undue Influence: A Novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not Brookner's Best, But Intriguing Anyway	Anita Brookner's protagonists, usually female, have the same damaged sensibilities and shriveled lives of Tennessee Williams' immortal Blanche Dubois, but they lack her  romanticism, humor and glamorous  self-deception.<br />These women seem to drift through their own lives as if  they were museum-goers at a not very enthralling exhibit.  The most they  can expect after an hour or two of dutiful but  listless  reading of labels  on display cases is a nice cup of tea at the museum shop.  There's no point  buying postcards; whom would they send them to?<br />Spinsterish Claire Pitt  in Brookner's &quot;Undue Influence&quot; is firmly in this long line of  stunted Brookner women.  She's been alienated from her virginal-seeming,  remote mother who was afraid of the outside world, and from her father who  was himself hemmed in by a stroke. Though she's traveled to Europe, it  doesn't seem to have affected her in any lasting way.<br />Claire is given to  long walks and cooking up elaborate fantasies about people she sees. Like  her predecessors, she seems under some kind of spell that keeps her  becalmed in London's vast social sea.  She has no relatives, almost no  friends, no serious connections with other people.  <br />Working part-time at  a bookstore, she loathes weekends, which pass in a kind of swoon of  boredom; for her, Sunday &quot;is a day on which nothing happened, or could  be expected to happen.&quot;   You can see Claire headed to that dim  voyeurism Brookner's women exhibit later in life: watching trafficless  streets, fallen leaves, and shifting shadows on the wall.  <br />But there are  some intriguing differences to Claire.  She's more judgmental than  Brookner's heroines tend to be, and not quite as kind-hearted.  Brookner  also wants us to believe that Claire is also apparently highly sexed and  attracted to muscular healthy men she wants to control.  That would make  her far more active than the typical Brookner heroine, though this side of  her personality seems much too vaguely drawn.<br />Claire pursues a connection  with a suave, older man who wanders into the bookstore.  His invalid wife  is the kind of person who's a fixture of the Brookner landscape:  fascinating, heedless, selfish.  When the wfie dies, Claire seduces the  widower, but he turns out to be a lot more like his wife than Claire had  first believed.  He disappoints her, but the novel builds to this crisis in  a lackluster and cliched way.<br />For all their solitude, the lives of  Brookner's emotional hermits and cripples are  intensely--though  quietly--dramatic.  Brookner is amazingly adept at capturing the sad, swift  passage of time that mauls and gobbles up even the most timid of dreams.  Her novels are intimate dramas of disappointment and resignation--far more  common in life than spectacular disasters. <br />But Undue Influence begins  too languidly, takes too long to start making a case for why we should be  interested in Claire, and it never really does convince you that Claire is  worth the attention.  Brookner is always praised for the wit and beauty of  her prose, but it doesn't seem as precise or compelling as usual here.  <br />This is definitely not vintage Brookner; readers who don't know her work  would be better off starting with either of her powerful last two novels,  Falling Slowly or Visitors...	2000-08-14
US	50878358	R3OIAR5XI9DNB8	0375704248	340816337	Falling Slowly	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Brookner Continues to Delight	In Henry James's The Ambassadors, the aging protagonist urges his young friend to &quot;Live!  Live all you can; it's a mistake not to.&quot; Anita  Brookner is often compared to James and Brookner's isolated and often  friendless heroines inevitably make the quietly tragic mistake which  James's character decries.  In one finely-drawn novel after another over  two decades, she has explored the fascinating consequences of such  mistakes, finding drama and passion in what from the outside may seem like  very undramatic lives.  <br />In the moving and intelligent Falling Slowly,  English translator Miriam Sharpe actually turns to readings Henry James  after death and disappointment mar her life.  She is a woman whose central  imperative in life has been to avoid risk and alarm in whatever form.   Raised by difficult, dismissive parents in a bleak household, neither she  nor her sister Beatrice had been prepared to be welcomed by the world, let  alone loved. Though she tried to enjoy her youth, Miriam found  itdisappointing.  That time of her life wasn't just a letdown in itself, it  never led--as she assumed it would--to a brand new and glorious chapter of  her life, &quot;one that was to obliterate botched beginnings.&quot;<br />With  &quot;no particular calling,&quot; Miriam drifted into working as a  translator of contemporary French novels, thanks to her gift for languages  and her speed.  Though this work means frequent trips to Paris, that city  itself holds no romantic promise for her, existing simply as a scene for  business. And her translating doesn't seem much more than a kind of  intellectual drudgery.  While her old-fashioned accompanist sister--whose  career is unfulfilling--dreams of a man right out of a Silhouette romance,  Miriam longs for a real home, a place bustling with life where she feels  connected. <br />For Miriam, an affair and even a five-year marriage pass as  if she were drugged by time itself.  Her relationship with her sister fades  inand out, growing more like that of her parents. In Brookner's novels,  the clash between expectations and reality tends to play out on a field  where overly careful people get entangled with the careless.  Here, the  conflicts are more muted than usual.<br />Falling Slowly may not be as  striking or as focused as last year's stunning Visitors, in part because of   POV switches.  But it still showcases Brookner's strengths in registering  the nuances of lives suffused by resignation and longing. She charts the  sad passage of time in changing faces and fortunes, fading dreams and  chintzes, better than almost any other contemporary novelist, which gives  her small books an unexpectedly expansive feel. And her elegant, insightful  prose is so admirably balanced, so consistently pleasurable, so seductively  witty that you're often likely to reread passages or even feel moved to  read them aloud to others. Like Austen, with whom she is also often  compared, Brookner works on a small canvas, but with a profound  understanding of the tragicomic potential of desires gone amiss.<br />Lev  Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, 4th in the Nick Hoffman series.   [...]	2000-08-14
US	50878358	R1RWCOCY9KLHZL	0679781471	120929301	Visitors: A Novel	Books	5	25	27	N	N	One of her Best--and I've Read Them All!	An editor of mine once said to me that he didn't think a wholelot happened in an Anita Brookner novel.  &quot;It's like somebody takes a painting off the wall and contemplates the patch of wallpaper that hasn't faded.  That's the book.&quot;<br />He was right--and he was very wrong.<br />Lives in Brookner's novels almost always follow the same arc as that wallpaper--from bright possibility to faded reality, and her characters are struck by the contrast of hopeful past and dim present.  That is, the characters she most sympathizes with.  Because in Brookner's world, there are the quiet, compliant, resigned types (who sometimes long to be bolder), and then there are brash heedless people who like FitzGerald's Daisy and Tom Buchanan smash things and people because they don't care what others think.<br />The painful and sometimes humiliating interaction of these two types is the source of the drama.  Brookner's often compared to Henry James, and like James, she posits that adventures of consciousness, travels of the mind and heart, are as strange and threatening as any other trips we might make.<br />Brookner's newest novel, her seventeenth, is a gloriously moving example of her insight into this paradox, written as always in witty and crystalline prose, and with her usual poetic psychological precision.  <br />Dorothea May grew up very quietly in a London suburb, and it shaped her values: &quot;One ate plain food, was careful not to give offence, and stayed at home until one married.&quot; This outwardly sedate spinster's life--in which trips to Europe were as uneventful as trips to the library--was interrupted by an accidental meeting that lead to a happy fifteen-year marriage.  But when her husband Henry died, Dorothea slipped back into the silence and virtual isolation she had been so accustomed to.  While she had dearly loved her husband, when she at last got rid of his things, she &quot;felt a sort of elation on realizing that in the future she would not be disturbed.&quot;<br />Well-off at seventy, in reasonably good health, but fighting recognition of her body's growing frailty, she's also profoundly aware of &quot;approaching the end of life, and that silence was appropriate.&quot; Brookner captures the sustaining rituals of Dorothea's narrowed life with heartbreaking and at times comic accuracy. While her own family is gone, she does have rich in-laws left, and doesn't really mind providing them with a conversational &quot;diversion&quot; due to her perceived oddness.<br />These same in-laws--careful to phone her every week to check on her health, but never coming much closer--disrupt the reverie-filled life she's sunken into.  Her sister-in-law's granddaughter has decided to come back to London from Massachusetts to get married, and Dorothea is pressured to offer her hospitality to the best man.  The idea of a stranger in her home is appalling, but Dorothea can't say no to this surprising request.<br />Until now, she has been &quot;moving through her shadowy rooms undisturbed, as though she were her own ghost.&quot; But the presence of a houseguest who is young and somewhat opaque to her, along with the oncoming wedding and the immersion in the present, is enough to change her life.  That change is Jamesian: Dorothea comes to see her childhood, her parents, her marriage, her one brief affair in a completely new light.  She emerges radiant with understanding, and can heroically face growing old: &quot;the country without maps.&quot; It's an almost breathtaking series of insights and discoveries, and Visitors is that rare book: a literary page-turner.  <br />Brookner's great gifts as a novelist are on lavish display in Visitors.  Few authors can communicate as deftly and subtly as she can the shocking passage of time, or the baffling way friends can drift apart, and the quiet lies and evasions of family life.  What's most amazing is that the quality of her work has been so consistently high year after year.  If you haven't read any of her novels, Visitors is a wonderful introduction to one of our best and most consistently enjoyable contemporary novelists. <br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL, 4th in the Nick Hoffman series...	2000-08-14
US	50878358	R33XH5UBZT3GQF	006019622X	652610812	La Grande Therese : The Greatest Scandal of the Century	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Living Large, The Parisian Way	We're in an age of biography bloat, when lives of people who aren't all that memorable lurch towards 700 pages--and that's without notes, etc.  So often I wonder where the editor was in the process.<br />But Hilary Spurling's  new book is a rarity--you find yourself aching to know more, wishing the  book were several hundred pages longer so you could revel in the juicy and  sometimes unbelievable details and situations.<br />Her biography is a  portrait of power and PR.  A French hick with a gift for story-telling  manages to snow le gratin (the elite) in late 19th century Paris into  believing she's the heiress to an American fortune tied up in litigation.   With the help of corrupt and even thuggish relatives in high and low  places, she and her clan parlay this mythical fortune into a social  position and vast but insecure wealth built on loans and deception (and  possibly murder).<br />It's been compared to a study in greed by Balzac (think  of Cousin Bette, perhaps, for its rapaciousness), and it's completely  cinematic in potential.  Fraud, wealth, politics, murder, scandal, public  sensation--and a memorable trial.  <br />Yes, it's short, as one reviewer  notes, but it's unforgettable. <br />Lev Raphael, author of LITTLE MISS EVIL,  4th in the Nick Hoffman mystery series...	2000-08-13
US	50878358	R1IHWCDZ3WEQZ8	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A (Lucille) Ball!	Janet Evanovich's &quot;bounty hunter from hell&quot; is back! Trenton, New Jersey's much put-upon Stephanie Plum has managed to burn down a  funeral home and have three of her cars blown up in only a few years of  work. In a state where seemingly everyone is &quot;armed to the teeth for  no good reason,&quot; people hate or disparage Plum for what she does.   Even her parents feel that way: Why isn't she married already, or at least  doing respectable work?<br />Stephanie's got two sidekicks now:  a heavy metal  cross-dresser and Lula, a black ex-hooker. With their help, Stephanie  blunders her way through another skip trace.  En route, she exhibits the  funky chic of &quot;Flashdance&quot; and the wacky pratfalls of &quot;I  love Lucy.&quot;  Of course her love interest/part-time nemesis is back:  Joe Morelli, a sexy cop who &quot;could look at water and make it  boil.&quot; Stephanie's gun-crazy grandmother is also along for the ride  amid plenty of high-speed comic mayhem. Go, Girl!	2000-08-11
US	50878358	R8B01Q4FEIK19	1569471797	417696766	Moghul Buffet (Soho Crime)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exotic and Exciting!	Cheryl Benard's unconventional debut mystery &quot;Moghul Buffet&quot;  is a feast of colorful characters and scenes presented by a witty, worldly  narrator with a keen eye for the comedy that results when cultures collide.  <br />Benard's Pakistan is far more than backdrop--it's rich and alive, the  laboratory where she explores volatile interactions between urban and  rural, male and female, American and Pakistani, corrupters and innocents,  ultra-orthodox and liberal.<br />Northwest Pakistan's fundamentalist  Peshawar  on the  Afghan border is a city where it's commonplace &quot;to be shot,  decapitated, stabbed, or otherwise meet a hideous fate.&quot;  Despite this  typical violence, the authorities take notice when an American disappears  from his hotel and there's a bloody message left on the scene. <br />Who did  it?  Terrorists?  A husband outraged that the American was sleeping with  his wife?  The unlikely group of policemen and amateurs investigating the  disappearance and subsequent murders is as chaotically mixed up as the  crowded streets of the city they explore, and as entertaining as the  delightfully conversational narrator. <br />&quot;Moghul Buffet&quot; is a  probing, wise, and surprising mystery.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	R1YIFOHV4BCAUT	0446607878	166601071	Coq Au Vin (Nanette Hayes Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Original and Funny	Charlotte Carter's absorbing Coq au Vin is a witty, erotic and moving love song to Paris and its &quot;glamorous black past&quot; of jazz musicians,  singers, and artists.  Sax-playing New Yorker Nanette Hayes is on a mission  in her beloved Paris to find her missing free-spirited aunt.  Nanette finds  hot sex and romance first, and big trouble second, confirming her fear that  she brings doom to those she cares about.  While the mystery is slight, Coq  au Vin's romantic comedy is the real deal, and so is the serious  heartbreak.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	RFCQU4SW7PEL0	0688158676	361246513	Playing Dead: A Hollywood Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hilarious and Sadly Overlooked	Lindsay Maracotta's well-plotted, hilarious and knowing Playing Dead takes  us into the lush Hollywood world of &quot;Keeping Up with the Moguls&quot;  where nannies can get their own saunas and famous child actors have  bodyguards at private schools that look like ducal palaces.  A devotee of  vintage clothing, animator Lucy Freers is married to a suddenly-wealthy  producer and she's trying to keep their lives at an even keel.  Fat chance!   Their humpy male nanny--a former lover--is murdered and police uncover his  secret life.  Soon after, Lucy is inexorably drawn into the cartoonish and  cruel world of child actors and their wildly avaricious parents. The  writing's snappy, the mystery's exciting, and Maracotta writes superb  social satire.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	R27S3VP4VFCTQK	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Funny Series Fades a Bit	If you were divorced, had made a mess of your love life, were over-dependent on your family and had no gainful employment--you probably  wouldn't decide to become a bounty hunter.<br />But that's what Janet  Evanovich's hapless Stephanie Plum did six books ago, and this wacky  mystery series just gets more popular with each book, though not  necessarily better.<br />The first few books introduced wildly improbable  situations in a close-knit Trenton, New Jersey ethnic community brimming  with eccentrics, where all the women in a beauty parlor were likely to  reveal they were carrying concealed weapons.  Dogged by gossip,  Stephanie  couldn't seem to get far without ruining her hair or blowing up a  car.<br />It's hard to top the comic invention of those early books, though  Evanovich keeps trying. In her sixth installment, &quot;Hot Six&quot; (St.  Martin's, $24.95, 320 pp.), she introduces a ravenous dog and two  blundering &quot;disorganized crime&quot; hitmen for spice.<br />&quot;Hot  Six&quot; is entertaining, but if you loved &quot;One for the Money&quot;  and &quot;Two for The Show,&quot; you may feel nostalgia for this series  when it didn't need dog poop jokes to liven it up.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	RGZBAFB8DJU8U	0805050744	319982669	Teller of Tales: The Life of Arthur Conan Doyle	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Start Here When You Want to Read about Conan Doyle	Poor Sir Arthur Conan Doyle!  Acclaimed for his creation of the supremely rational, preternaturally observant detective Sherlock Holmes, he spent  many years in later life mocked for his belief in spiritualism, which he  considered the &quot;successor to traditional religious thought.&quot;  Brave, headstrong, and reckless, Doyle was one of England's most vociferous  believers in spirits, mediums, ectoplasm, messages from beyond the  grave--and even fairies.  He was a tireless lecturer on several continents,  writing a raft of books on the subject and donating the royalties to  various spiritualist organizations.  His zeal may have been admired in some  quarters, but it was almost universally derided, and in the last ten years  of his life, it lost him most of his friends.  What happened?<br />Daniel  Stashower's well-written and highly entertaining light portrait of Doyle's  career gives some simple but compelling answers.  Though Scottish, Doyle  was raised a Catholic, but abandoned his faith for agnosticism very early  on.  Yet he apparently was a born believer, just waiting for a cause.  His  inventive and appealing Sherlock Holmes stories never struck him as  particularly worthy or important and he longed to give the world something  of value (he also tried his hand at plays and historical novels).  And like  many other British citizens during World War I, Doyle suffered heavy family  losses and ached for connection with his personal dead.<br />As Stashower  relates with a brisk pace and gentle humor, warm-hearted Doyle's life reads  as a succession of fiery causes. A formidable propagandist, Doyle would use  his gifts as a writer and lecturer as well as his ever-growing celebrity to  raise money and the public's consciousness time and time again.  He fought  human rights abuses in the Belgian Congo, supported the Boer War, argued  for heightened British military preparedness before World War I, supported  reforms in British divorce law, and injected himself into famous criminal  trials he thought had been unjust.  But spiritualism was his ultimate  &quot;holy crusade.&quot;  Stashower minces no words in describing how  Doyle was willing to accept or explain away even the most obvious frauds.   He was noble and pathetic at the same time and Stashower makes us  understand and sympathize with him, though we never see very far into  Doyle's personality or his relationships.  This is very much a biography of  the public man, but given the subject's profound investment in publicizing  what he held dear, that focus is appropriate and deeply satisfying.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	R1975XGUY508LG	0385486510	276874417	After Hannibal	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wise and Witty	Can the history of a region shape the lives of those who settle there?  Barry Unsworth, winner of the Booker Prize for his novel SACRED HUNGER,  suggests that may be so in his hypnotic and gorgeously written new novel  about fantasy, deceit and betrayal.<br />Set in &quot;Golden&quot; Umbria, a  region made famous by painters like Raphael and Peruggino, AFTER HANNIBAL  explores a brief spell of time for English, Italian, German, and American  neighbors living along a dusty rural road.  They all have their dreams,  some elevated, some vicious, and reality crushes each of them in one way or  another--or sets them free in unexpected ways.<br />But that's not surprising,  because they live in a dramatic, blood-soaked landscape, however dreamy and  idyllic it may appear, and however filled it may be with cities that are  &quot;treasure-houses of art and history.&quot;  Hannibal destroyed a Roman  army there, and in the Renaissance, noble families jockeyed for power,  defying each other and the Papacy in blood.  The region's history is  &quot;a record of crime.&quot;<br />All this background is ironically supplied  by an Italian history professor who himself longs &quot;to be detached from  history, rescued&quot;--but of course, that's not possible for him or his  neighbors who are bound together in surprising ways.<br />Though the author's  couple from Michigan sounds more British than American, it's an easily  forgiven lapse.  AFTER HANNIBAL is wise and witty, infused with the warmth  of a dazzling landscape, and tempered by a sad, deep knowledge of the human  penchant for self-deception and self- destruction.  It's a deeply moving  book much like one of the tiny,  ancient Umbrian towns the author  describes: &quot;undemonstrative, unclamorous--it makes no very loud or  evident claim on your attention.  It exists in its own right, in its  venerable and richly layered past and harmonious present.&quot;	2000-08-10
US	50878358	RTVFYBFAZ9PIP	0688141218	346017603	The Devil's Shepherd: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Superior, Balanced Thriller	Set in war-torn Sarajevo, an Ethiopia in the grip of civil war, and  Israel, Stephen Hartov's magnificent thriller is so vivid and compelling it  may remind readers of Ken Follett's &quot;Lie Down with Lions.&quot;  <br />Hartov fields a Laurel and Hardy Israeli intelligence team: aging Eytan  Eckstein and fatherly Benni Baum.  Heavily battled scarred from previous  secret operations, they`re on the verge of retirement, but make the mistake  of accepting one more mission  they can't resist--they're addicted to  danger and excitement, and their loyalty to their people and their country  is soul-deep.<br />Hartov beautifully plays off the men's military skills  against their longing for rest. Alternating between the canny team work of  &quot;Mission Impossible&quot; and Indiana Jones-style escapes, this is an  almost perfect thriller: tense,  exciting, brilliantly paced--and with  deeply believable characters.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	R6GK9DU6XBOGX	037550253X	204619529	The Naked Detective	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not Just a PI Spoof	Larry Shames' hilarious, knowing new Key West mystery appropriately starts in a hot tub where 47-year-old Pete Amsterdam is enjoying his early  retirement from up north.  He's devoted to tennis, music, good wine--and  taking it easy.<br />Oddly enough, he's also technically a PI--but that's only  something he got into as a very complicated and slightly preposterous tax  dodge.   He doesn't ever take on clients, though, until a sultry blonde  drags him into a case after he rejects her plea for help and she's  murdered. <br />As the plot thickens, Amsterdam is soon worrying that he  helped kill a mob boss, and facing death threats. Amsterdam's wry voice is  confident but human; the story zips along; and the Key West setting is as  lustrous and colorful as the book's seductive heroine.<br />Shames is a  terrific writer with real heart and this loving spoof of PI novels is  funny, suspenseful, romantic and wise, a book made for dreamers.	2000-08-10
US	50878358	RFYE0JHLB21FS	0375502947	926761267	Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Brimming with Life	The Poor Little Rich Girl is a story with enduring fascination in our culture, whether it's Gloria Vanderbilt or Princess Di.  First-time  biographer Amanda Foreman tells an 18thcentury version of this tale that's  enthralling, swift-moving, and sometimes unbelievable.<br />At 17,  aristocratic Georgiana Spencer married into one of England's wealthiest and  most politically powerful families, but it was a mismatch from the very  beginning.  The diffident, unloving Duke of Devonshire only wanted an heir  and was unable to deal with the intelligent, high-spirited, talented and  immensely appealing teenager as his wife.  <br />Before long, Georgiana was  involved like many aristocrats of her day in fevered, incessant,  unrestrained gambling.  This vice burdened her all her life, and at one  point she owed today's equivalent of six million pounds.  Juggling her  debts and hiding them from her husband created constant stress; she took  drugs, suffered  miscarriages, psychosomatic ailments and an eating  disorder. The Duke turned to other women, she to other men and perhaps  another woman as well, who entered a strange menage a trois with the ducal  couple. <br />The public Duchess was the cynosure of a London undergoing an  economic and journalistic boom.  A vaunted and daring fashion-setter, she  was written about, studied, admired, celebrated, lampooned in newspapers  hungry for copy, and became a national celebrity.  Marie Antoinette was a  friend and the Prince of Wales a rumored lover.<br />Most fascinating of all,  Georgiana had a passion for politicking and her charm, benevolence and  intelligence made her a political hostess and unelected politician with  unusual power and influence.  Foreman makes the story of Georgiana's  attachment to the Whig party utterly compelling, and her explanations of  Georgian politics are crystal clear.<br />Winner of the Whitbread Prize for  Biography, Foreman has a novelist's gift for  painting a scene; the book is  as vivid as &quot;The Madness of King George&quot; and as picturesquely  lovely  as &quot;Barry Lyndon.&quot;  Foreman's written a sprawling,  hypnotic, beautifully-told and deeply affecting  story of power, wealth,  politics, sexual license, revolution, love and addiction that's tailor-made  for a mini-series.   This is an exemplary biography and the perfect summer  (or winter) read.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R29WWBTRBGEN8A	0618045678	177300630	Wild Decembers	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Stunning, passionate, brilliantly written	The remote fields and mountains of Western Ireland in Edna O'Brien's  stunning new novel may be hauntingly beautiful, but they're haunted as  well. <br />Overlaid with a grid of legal claims and counter-claims, this land  has been sown with centuries of resentment and violence as rival families   have fought each other with lawsuits and gunshots &quot;in the name of  honour [sic] and land and kindred and blood.&quot;  Even the tiniest piece  of land can be the bone of contention sticking in someone's throat.    &quot;Wild Decembers&quot; brilliantly and poetically captures the brooding  power of this murky past as it poisons the lives of three young farmers:  Joe Brennan, his sister Breege, and the man who changes both their lives  forever, Mick Bugler.<br />Mick has returned to Ireland from sheep farming in  Australia to restore inherited land for himself and his fiancee.  But every  step he takes embroils him in legal disputes with Joe over access to  parcels of land he claims are his but Joe says were long since deeded away  to the Brennans.  Their families have been at odds for generations, and  that quicksand of hatred inexorably draws both of them under, first  erupting in a bar room brawl, even while they sometimes try to be civil  with each other.  <br />Violence broods over every page, even the most  beautiful or comical (the book is filled with eccentrics). And all of it  takes place as if on stage, since the entire populace of the nearby town is  studying their entanglement and wondering how dreamy, suppressed Breege  feels about the both of them.<br />Joe and Mick's enmity nearly destroys  Breege's mind as she's torn between family loyalty and a burgeoning wild  love for Mick that brings her fully to life for the first time.  O'Brien's  evocation of her longing, excitement and shame is at times almost  breathtakingly intense and beautiful.  And overall,  there's hardly a page  where you won't want to read a passage aloud to marvel over.     O'Brien's skillful mix of letters and shifting viewpoints makes the story  all the more intimate and dramatic as we enter the dark corners of three  stifled lives on the point of exploding. <br />The prose is virile, sinuous,  startling, immediate--whirling you up into the sky with birds, across a  field with a terrified rabbit,and down tumbling streams.    And through  O'Brien's magic, the stifled hopes of the book's three main characters   flare up so intensely you feel singed by their passion and stunned by their  reversals. &quot;Wild Decembers&quot; is a gorgeously written and  heartbreaking novel, one of the most powerful I've read in years.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R3896H1C6ZU39Y	0140277471	624542054	Blanche Cleans Up	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Delicious	Barbara Neely made a tremendous splash in the mystery world a few years  ago with her debut novel Blanche on the Lam.  Though the mystery itself was  weak, many readers fell in love with the main character.  Blanche White  wasn't like most other feisty feminist women sleuths: she was  African-American, middle-aged, and a cleaning woman. From the vantage point  of her class, her race, and her background, Blanche's observations about  people and life were both pointed and highly entertaining.  Small wonder,  then, that Neely won two fan-based mystery prizes.<br />Unapologetically  heavyset Blanche is a delightful change from the trim, caustic sleuths who  are always jogging and taking self-defense classes to stay in shape.  She  has a mouth on her and doesn't put up with anyone's bull, but her real  skills are insight into people and places and the connections between them,  and a kind of intuition verging on ESP.  Though Blanche has &quot;done more  work than she'd been paid for in her life,&quot; working in other people's  homes has helped her raise her dead sister's two children and taught her a  great deal about psychology.<br />Blanche isn't just insightful, however:  she's industrial strength nosey and proud of it.  Finding out everything  she can about her employers isn't any different than helping solve murders.   &quot;She liked sticking her nose in where it wasn't supposed to be and  finding out things other people didn't want her to know.  She liked doing  this the way some people liked jogging or dancing or going to the  mall.&quot;<br />In her third foray into crime-solving, Blanche lands right in  the middle of a potential political scandal working as a fill-in  housekeeper-cook for a wealthy but unhappy Boston couple.  They rouse her  curiosity and ire: the wife's too dazed and troubled, the husband's a  right-wing Republican running for Governor whose bigoted courting of  prominent right-wing African-Americans infuriates Blanche. <br />Something  is definitely wrong in this house, and it unexpectedly explodes in  Blanche's face, bringing violence to her Roxbury neighborhood and  threatening herself and her children.  Her strong connections to the  African-American community will help her save herself and those she loves,  as well as bring some unexpected justice. <br />Though fairly predictable,  Blanche on the Lam is a classic cozy in form: low on violence, high on  humor, charm, and quirkiness. It's likely to expand Neely's audience  primarily because Blanche is such a delightful, richly-drawn character.   Blanche is human, warm, saucy, funny and believable as she struggles in  herself or in her community with racism, child rearing, teen pregnancy,  homesickness, self-hatred, romantic loneliness and even menopause. While  Neely still doesn't write much of a mystery, the meal she lays out for you  here is so tasty that it really doesn't much matter.<br />    .	2000-08-09
US	50878358	RPOLBGTS87YBA	0446606081	198340912	The Ax	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant and Harrowing	We've been deluged in recent years by books and movies about serial killers that make various attempts to explain their horrific crimes.  The  causes often lie on terrible childhood abuse.  But what if someone  committed a series of murders because he was desperate for a job?<br />That's  right, Burke Devore in Donald Westlake's chilling and suspenseful new novel  becomes a killer because he's out of a job. A middle manager for years at a  paper mill, he's been downsized, and as his insurance and unemployment run  out, he and his family sink into increasing fear and despair.  His wife  works two lousy part-time jobs, his son takes to burglary and is arrested.   And Burton just can't get hired in his field.<br />It wasn't supposed to be  like that.  After all, as he puts it so trenchantly, he's middle class, and  so, unlike the poor or the very rich, isn't used &quot;to the idea that  life has great swings&quot; of fortune.  Instead, &quot;the middle class is  used to a smooth progress through life.&quot;  If you give up the highs,  you're supposed to be protected from the lows.<br />Like your company dumping  you after years of loyal and productive service--and then offering to  retrain you as an air conditioning repairman.  Now, who'd bother hiring a  man over 50 with a few months of training over someone younger who really  wanted to do that job?<br />Fully aware of the surplus of middle managers in  his own field, and with more of them &quot;chasing fewer and fewer  jobs,&quot; Devore craftily finds out who his toughest competition is.  And  after narrowing the list down to those in his New England region or New  York, sets out to kill each one so that the next time a plum job comes up  in his area, he'll go to the top of the list.<br />It's an audacious, brutal,  and crazy scheme, and Westlake's great gift is drawing you into the  domestic and professional tragedy of Devore's life so well that you become  weirdly complicit in his quiet rage.  You don't want Devore to kill anyone,  yet you don't want him to get caught by the police.  This disturbing  tension propels the book forward over the few gaps.  While Devore's  relationship with his wife is fully realized, his connection with his two  children is less so.  And in the brief moments when the tension lets up in  this harrowing novel, you may wonder a little about Devore's past.  <br />Downsizing, as Devore points out, has to be one of the stupidest  business ideas in this century: &quot;trashing productive people from  productive careers in productive companies.&quot; Taut and creepy, THE AX  brings newspaper headlines about downsizing to life in a way only as richly  experienced a writer as Donald Westlake can do.   It's no surprise, then,  that in 1993, the Mystery Writers of America named this author of 40 books  a Grand Master.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	RMGZCRJH9Q2YP	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Stunning &amp; Original	Lucas Corso is an unusual kind of private detective.  He's &quot;a mercenary of the book world,&quot; hunting down rare books for wealthy  collectors.  If that includes arranging for a theft and having confederates  disguise the book's provenance, so be it.  Corso knows all the angles.<br />In  The Club Dumas, however, his latest case unexpectedly takes detours into  violence and satanism.  Corso has twin tasks: verifying the authenticity of  a manuscript chapter of Dumas's The Three Musketeers and discovering  whether a medieval volume, The Nine Doors, is a forgery.  This book  supposedly holds the secret of calling up Satan, and copies were burned  during the Inquisition.  <br />As he plumbs the murky depths of The Nine Doors  and delves into the world of Alexander Dumas, Corso's case grows more and  more phantasmagorical.  He's stalked, beaten, becomes an accessory to  murder, falls in love with a mysterious young woman who may be a devil, and  becomes convinced someone has enmeshed him in a bizarre re- enactment of  The Three Musketeers.  <br />Critics have compared the author to Umberto Eco,  but The Club Dumas lacks the heavy hand of the literary critic.  It's a  fast-paced, joyously complex and inventive book, imbued with a passion for  literature.  Prepare to be amused and amazed by this funny, bizarre set of  puzzles within puzzles.  And if you're a book lover, or have a special  fondness for The Three Musketeers, this novel is an unforgettable feast.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R3JFUZOB01UYJG	0140283625	122319491	Once upon the River Love	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Hypnotic	Russian-born novelist Andrei Makine's romantic and Proustian autobiographical first novel, Dreams of My Russian Summers, was quite  appropriately written in French because its subject was largely the  centuries-old love affair that Russians have had with French culture in all  its forms.  Set mostly in a grim, Stalinist Siberia, it charted a boy's  intoxication with his grandmother's lustrous memories of  turn-of-the-century Paris.  That inheritance of lost treasures eventually  caused him deep conflict, but Makine resolved it by becoming a writer.   <br />And what a writer, even in translation.  His prose in that book was a  lavish, slow torrent, lush and haunting.  Not surprisingly, Makine is the  first novelist to have received France's prestigious Prix Medicis and Prix  Goncourt for the same book.  <br />His new novel, set in the 1960s, is equally  as focused on dreams of glamor and glory contrasting with a dismal Siberian  reality as crushingly onerous as the Soviet system that has planted prison  camps there.  And once again, it's aspects of French culture that come to  symbolize everything fresh, exciting, and free that is missing in the  narrator's life.<br />Reading this novel you enter a fascinating and quite  alien world of snow, silence and history-as-nightmare, where blizzards  cover towns with a weight that equals the burden of collectivization and  the calamities of Russia's decades of devastation through Revolution, civil  war, and  war.  In this setting, the brutal regularity of the winters is as  heedlessly cruel as the inane Communist Party slogans and official optimism  that ceaselessly forecast a glorious future proving the truth of Marxism-  Leninism.  But what about the barren here-and-now?<br />The handsome narrator  Dimitri (nicknamed Don Juan) and his two eenaged friends struggle with all  the familiar burdens of adolescence.  Not surprisingly, Dimitri's first  sexual encounter, with a prostitute whose life also affects his two  friends, doesn't reveal the glories of love, but grotesque chagrin l'amour  instead.  It's Makine's rich prose that makes something original out of all  the cliched inchoate longings for life, experience, certainty and identity.   His prose--and the bitter, empty life in Dimitri's eastern Siberian town  where people feel &quot;condemned to this natural beauty, and to the  suffering that it conceals.&quot;<br />Into that void shines an unexpected  beam of light far grander than the Trans-Siberian Railway and its  mysterious, magnetic passengers glimpsed through windows.  Quixotically,  the local cinema starts showing an adventure film starring Jean-Paul  Belmondo and everyone for miles around starts lining up to see this movie  not once, but dozens of times.  In its chic, humor, and  self-reflectiveness, the film offers unimaginable gifts to its Siberian  audience.  They see the unknown West there: excitement, sensuality,  freedom, adventure, wit and sparkling fun.  Belmondo's gorgeous smile on  the movie poser undercuts years of fear and oppression under the Soviet  system.  And each of the trio of boys ironically finds deep lessons in the  frivolous movie, identifying with different aspects of Belmondo's  character: Lover, Warrior, and Poet. <br />Though the book is touchingly  beautiful, it doesn't have quite the weight of Dreams of My Russian  Summers, perhaps because there's no central figure who commands as much  fascination as the grandmother there.  You wonder if this book might not  have made a better novella with some of the lushness trimmed away.  At  times the book's intoxication with  language (which is its major strength),  can even feel a bit exasperating.  As H.G. Wells described Henry James's  later style, you feel you're watching an elephant trying to pick up a pea.  <br />But that's only an occasional problem.  Most of the time you're happily,  dreamily swept away, which is poetically appropriate.  For the name of the  Siberian river near Dimitri's town is Amur, also a Russian name for Cupid.   And in French, the River Amur is spelled &quot;Amour,&quot; which of course  means love.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R2RR4HY3M4ORAM	0316966207	778637679	Walkin' the Dog	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Magnificent Mosley	Walter Mosley's black, 60ish, ex-convict Socrates Fortlow is a unique hero.  To start with, there's his stature: he's an enormous, powerful man  with &quot;killer hands&quot; that are &quot;weapons trained from childhood  for war.&quot;   Socrates is &quot;more often than not the strongest man in  the room&quot;  and his laugh sounds &quot;like far-off explosions, a  battery of cannon laying siege to a defenseless town.&quot;<br />Then there's  his past: 27 years in prison for murders he committed in some kind of daze.  He's not just haunted by the evil he's put into the world, he's possessed  by it.  He'll always carry prison inside of him--even his dreams return him  to a claustrophobic cell--but he's determined to do right and teach others  likewise. <br />He has to &quot;see past bein' guilty&quot; and that includes  taking care of those who are helpless, guiding others with probing,  Soctratic questions, and in effect nurturing a young black boy he works  with. Fortlow may have lost his moral compass, but he's determined to fly  right (as he sees it) and not let others do what he's done.<br />It's the  combination of simmering rage and brutality with a hunger for redemption  that makes Walter Mosley's new collection of stories about Fortlow edgy and  at times profound. <br />The  obstacles are enormous, because for the cops,  this murderer is just &quot;a prisoner-in-waiting.&quot;  They come after  him whenever there's a crime committed nearby and even &quot;on a whim . .  . just in case he had done something that even they couldn't suspect.&quot;   Socrates has an ex-con's ability to sink into silence and out wait his  oppressors, but in the end he'll take a very bold step--knowing &quot;he  had to stand up without killing--in his search for justice.<br />Socrates'  moral sensibility searchlighting his life brings a kind of monumentality to  the character, who is larger than life in many ways.  With his two-legged  dog, he seems a figure out of myth.  Ralph Ellison's name is brought up in  the book, but for me he recalls figures from the brooding romances of  Hawthorne and Melville, a man irrevocably marked by his past.<br />The prose  is finely crafted, supple, clear, powerful.  The dialogue natural, and the  truths fierce. This book is beautiful and sad, so compelling you may feel  torn between wanting to gobble it down and read slowly to savor every  insight.  Not a bad dilemma.<br />&quot;Walkin' the Dog&quot; makes you care,  makes you think, makes you glad Walter Mosley is writing.  This is not a  book you're likely to forget, and it's one you'll want to share.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	ROOWCOYZL2EZ3	0812555384	321866730	Shooters	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Unjustly Neglected--One of the Best Thrillers of the 90s	Remember Faye Dunaway in &quot;The Eyes of Laura Mars&quot;?  In Shooters, Nick Gardner's the same kind of fashion photographer, producing cool, edgy,  erotic work that's steeped in violence and threat.<br />Arrogant, talented,  promiscuous, Nick is the kind of guy who'd &quot;rather have sex with a  complete stranger than kiss a friend with meaning.&quot;  He's at the top  of his game, pulling in big bucks from advertisers, never going out with  the same woman two nights in a row, showing off on the road in his black  Lamborghini.  Then the violence in his work turns real, plucking him out of  his lush but empty lifestyle.<br />The nightmare starts at a party when he  ditches the woman he came with and picks up Candice, a fantasy-gorgeous  blond.  Something about Candice warns him to stay away, but he's  intoxicated by her technicolor charms and ignores his intuition.  After a  drug- swamped night of ominously kinky sex, Candice ends up dead in his  dumpster.<br />Her death raises the specter of Nick's ugly past as a  pornographer, convincing the police even more of his guilt.  Nick of course  sets off to find out who set him up and why, but the search leads to an  amazing and unexpected climax.<br />Violent, gritty, cynical, and provocative,  Shooters takes you on a wild ride through seamy, narcissistic LA where the  threatening pall of smoke from fires in the hills hangs over everything.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R1X4VOGVZLBJZD	0446675261	358551426	Backflash (Parker Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tought &amp; Tense	In Richard Stark's dark new caper, the state of New York is experimenting with riverboat gambling.  A floating casino's being tested for four months  on the Hudson River to see how much money it brings in, and it's all going  to be cash during the trial run.<br />Enter master criminal Parker, who's  approached by an anti-gambling former state employee with a proposal to rob  the boat.  Something about this guy troubles Parker, but he goes ahead   anyway, assembling a crack team of specialists to plan a beautifully  ingenious raid.<br />Parker's motto in heists is &quot;to try to control  events&quot; but he knows all too well that &quot;they'll still get away  from you anyway.&quot; Of course that's exactly what happens here, when the  scent of all that money attracts other crooks with plans of their own and  Parker has to clean up the mess.<br />Stark is the pseudonym of acclaimed  mystery master Donald Westlake, author of last year's stunning The Ax, and  his expert touch is evident in every part of this tense, tough and  enthralling book.	2000-08-09
US	50878358	R2I2EMCD2D13UT	094577446X	170223683	A Double Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fascinating	Noted screenwriter and novelist Raphael has written a dark story of self-deception and isolation that has a larger political scope.  Looking back on his life, French diplomat Guy de Roumegouse writes a memoir that  shows how distant he's always been from reality and his own feelings.  His  teenage years paralleled the approach to WW II and the war itself, and  eventually the links between French wartime self-deception and hypocrisy  and the narrator's psychic life emerge with surprising results. <br />Raphael  writes about warring couples better than anyone around, showing how they  can launch nuclear strikes at each other with just a sentence. And because  of that gift, the most effective  parts of the book analyze Guy's failed  first marriage.	2000-07-29
US	50878358	R2RXY9XPSGIY03	094577446X	170223683	A Double Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark &amp; Disturbing	This story of a French diplomat's life traces the ways in which duplicity plays out in all of his relationships, and ultimately destroys his first  marriage.  His conflicts over sexual identity, his role in the Resistance  and even how much he can express of his true feelings create a sense of  brooding doom.  That's why when a murder takes place, you're both shocked  and nodding, &quot;Yes, I knew something bad would happen.&quot;<br />There's  no catharsis here, just beautiful prose as Raphael's narrator  aphoristically tells his dark tale.  And as he showed in &quot;Coast to  Coast,&quot; Raphael is a master at depicting a marriage collapsing into  clever cruelty.	2000-07-10
US	50878358	R3NS1VO6VGKDLX	0312198299	999447608	Aquarius Descending (Elizabeth Chase Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another Superb Lawrence Mystery	When I pick up a Martha Lawrence mystery, I glow with the assurance that I am in the hands of a master story teller, and I'm never disappointed.  Her prose has quiet power and confidence, her characters are completely  believable, her plots enticing and complex. The psychic side of her sleuth  is worked in so deftly and unsensationally that when you hear readers call  Elizabeth a &quot;psychic sleuth&quot; that almost creates the wrong  impression.  She's a sleuth with some psychic powers that really feel more  like a very intense form of intuition.  And isn't that what cops and PIs  use anyway? With Aquarius Descending, prepare to be entertained by a writer  who's working at the top of her form.  And when Lawrence leaps onto the  best seller lists, as Sue Grafton has confidently predicted she will, and  friends ask if you've read her, you can proudly feel you joined the  Lawrence bandwagon early on.	2000-02-05
US	50878358	R3FKYGTF5CEK4F	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Disappointing and over-rated	I'm surprised this book is compared by the publisher to sublime THE NAME OF THE ROSE and THE MONK.  It's really quite thin gruel, packaged as something substantial.<br />Despite the references to fog and dark corners and  such, the Gothic atmosphere was barely present, and while the multi-layered  plot is quite ingenious, the clues are so incredibly obvious in a few  places (if you've read more than a handful of mysteries), I felt  embarrassed.	1999-12-29
US	50878358	R36AJKX08UXZUF	0345426045	469268443	Cookie Cutter	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Disappointing and badly written	The ideas this books deals with are truly important: internalized oppression and racism and what they can do to minorities.<br />The execution is lamentable. On almost every other page there's an image that doesn't  work, a sentence that doesn't scan. The sex scenes are silly when they  strive to be erotic.<br />It was painful to see such promising material  delivered in such a slapdash way.	1999-12-23
