US	50882938	R3LVFT1BMOR963	0375507108	349152576	My Life So Far	Books	5	10	19	N	N	This Lady Deserves Another Round!	Jane Fonda has managed to write an intelligent and forthright autobiography, one deserving of more than just a half-hearted glance.....it deserves to be read entirely. <br /> <br />Ms. Fonda writes eloquently about her life \\"so far\\" in three stages: childhood, middle-age and her awakening life as an elder single woman. With almost 70 years under her belt she continues to be smart as well as a spectacular specimen of what a real woman should strive to become. Yes, Fonda is one-sided in her political views but most definitely never self-serving and she has managed to conduct her life with an unfathomable integrity, something I defy her critics to arise towards. Her views do not waver or change with the current fad she staunchly protests war and its entire backlash. Despite appearing a harsh liberal, traitor and even the ultimate bimbo (Barberella...Yikes!) in reality she is more than just a surface ornament instead Ms. Fonda grows riper and wiser with each day while the rest of us waste away into old prunes. <br /> <br />So what interest lies in this autobiography that anyone who isn't rich and famous will relate to? Just about everything! Sure Fonda had the typical bad parental upbringing but she has eventually moved beyond excuses....a skill we can all learn from. She had the chance to be a huge sexy star in Hollywood but gave up a fancy yet empty career to try and make a difference in the world as she saw it....we could all be more useful. And of course she had her share of crappy relationships......no need to explain that one! But the gift that Fonda extends with this book is one of insight, growth, forgiveness and responsibility....something few of us manage at the end of our days. So as she nears 70 she is happy, fit, healthy, strong and most importantly willing to look at herself through honest eyes and fix the things within her control. Would you, could you do the same? Most women in her shoes would be eating bon-bons, buying a face filled with botok and goingto a few teas along the way....Fonda remains a true American and refuses to sit back on her laurels and let the time pass away with useless repetition. <br /> <br />This autobiography is about more than Vietnam, more than a few films, more than a famous and pampered life instead it is about how one woman used her voice and her wisdom to challenge the things in life that she disagreed with while never wavering even as she waltzes off into her last sunset.....may her special character and voice remain more than a mere whisper! <br /> <br />   <br />	2005-05-29
US	50882938	R22VXGIZ4YKXTM	0688156819	208495508	The Melancholy Death of Oyster Boy & Other Stories	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Melancholy Indeed!	Tim Burton is pure genius. In this little book of melancholy poetry he combines humor, darkness and independent thought into indescribable delight. <br /> <br />This petite book of 23 short poems is the definition of creativity and artistic expression. Burton's poetry is simple, rhythmical and completely unique. His characters are as varied as \\"James\\" to \\"The Boy With Nails in His Eyes,\\" each offering a touch of whimsy beside an outsider existence. Anyone who has ever felt different will somehow relate! Complete with Burton's own drawings of each distinctive character it is a very entertaining experience.  <br /> <br />If you enjoy Tim Burton's films and relate to his ability to tell the tale of misshapen outcasts you will enjoy this chance to savor Burton in print. Adults and children alike can chuckle and moan at the inventiveness of a true original.    <br />	2005-02-08
US	50882938	R5MDV39Z5XTHX	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Realistic and Touching Look at Grief	When suffering from grief who better to place your heart with than C.S. Lewis, the master at heartfelt emotions and faith. <br /> <br />C.S. Lewis wrote this little book during the process of grieving for his beloved wife, Joy. He brings his raw emotions forward and shares the act of grief in a very human and profound message. Showing a variety of emotions he spans the process of mourning and makes the act appear \\"normal\\" even when the slightest steps of self-care become a chore. Lewis braves the unthinkable and questions a God that allows despair and refuses to comfort the one left behind. Few would voice this common feeling but Lewis goes beyond simply voicing his doubt and eventually unravels the mystery of faith during the most horrible of times. Jesus Christ even experienced this desolate feeling crying out to God as he hung dying on the cross....so if He must go through such a bitter process why would the average human being expect any different? Realizing this places a perspective on the pain and allows us to stop questioning whether death and loss arrives in a package entirely explainable. It happens at exactly the right time for the one who passes and we must learn to accept this despite our lack of understanding. As Lewis writes so eloquently, \\"Fate (or whatever it is) delights to produce a great capacity and then frustrate it.\\" <br /> <br />Lewis takes standard thought processes and analyzes the theories behind their meaning and by doing so he helps the grieving process immensely. Hearing how our beloveds are with God causes one to ask, were they not \\"with God\\" before they died? And all those prayers said at bedsides and funerals, some with \\"miracles\\" attached and others seemingly lost actions are examined by Lewis as a process of torment by God, at once gracious only to prepare another torture in the end. Lewis reveals his anger towards God in hopes of leading to a deeper understanding of what faith really means. Grief becomes an act of desperation according to Lewis and seeing through tears often leads to blurred vision. Grief is merely fear incarnated. Ultimately it is through the observance of the dying that we discover the definitive peace and eventually find solace in faith. <br />	2005-02-08
US	50882938	R23B1UP57Y7QU3	0156901773	151831502	Three Guineas	Books	3	16	21	N	N	It All Boils Down To Money!	Early feminism begins to emerge in this essay written by Virginia Woolf in 1938 as a follow up to her wonderful book \\"A Room of One's Own.\\" <br /> <br />Woolf received requests for three guineas from a women's college, from a society for promoting professional women and finally from a group requesting the prevention of war. This essay is Woolf's answer to those requests. While it is extraordinarily cumbersome to read the bottom line suggests that a society which promotes only one aspect of itself and suffocates anything else will never be advanced enough to protect its own culture and intellect from revolutions and wars. And because the idea of fighting rests in the very aspect so highly promoted (male dominated society) all of the laws and practices contain this strife and will until other parts of society are allowed a fair voice. The interesting concept is how little society has advanced from this original idea and the strife continues to be a factor today. Woolf suggests war exists as a profession and an act that offers \\"happiness and excitement\\" for the very society it falls under. In fact she goes as far to suggest that men would deteriorate without the outlet of war to contend with. Woolf discusses patriotism as a purely male act because of the fact that women simply cannot be patriots in a culture that suffocates their voices and refuses to educate them (remember this is 1938). The disturbing thought is that women are now able to vote, work and fight in wars but our culture remains basically the same with white males in domination. How slow we are to advance! <br /> <br />Virginia Woolf believed that war could only be prevented through an educational system that stopped the glamorization of it and instead taught the inhumanity of the act. She found that poor educational systems actually taught better because they allowed art and creative processes to flow rather than the pomp and circumstance of wealth and the art of dominating, killing and capital acquirements. Sadly one of Woolf's most profound ideas applies today, \\"There we have an embryo the creature, Dictator as we call him when he is Italian or German, who believes that he has the right, whether given by God, Nature, sex or race is immaterial, to dictate to other human beings how they shall live; what they shall do.\\" From a society of slavery, racism and suffering emerges a great savior promoting freedom? It seems an oxymoron does it not?  Woolf continues, \\"And what right have we, Sir, to trumpet our ideas of freedom and justice to other countries when we can shake out from our most respectable newspapers any day of the week eggs like these?\\" The futurism of Woolf is astounding in this book as she finally suggests that women be labeled \\"outside\\" society so that her country is the entire world and her patriotism allowed to be the same. In a visionary profoundness Woolf manages to find an answer towards true freedom outside of the fascination of a few guineas.  <br />	2005-02-08
US	50882938	R1JKQ7BRX6TV2K	0345440463	785514003	Making a Literary Life: Advice for Writers and Other Dreamers	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Advice Yes......But Nothing New	This book offers sensible advice for practicing writers and other so-called dreamers. It is well written but holds no surprises. <br /> <br />Carolyn See has offered her words of wisdom for anyone embarking on a literary life. Her approach is no nonsense and hands on but it seems to lack creativity. For any writer who has approached writing as a business rather than a creative project there is nothing new to be learned here. See suggests writing 1,000 words a day, pretending to be a writer, learning to write \\"charming notes\\" to other writer's and editor's, figuring out how to handle criticism and hanging out with others subjecting themselves to the same torture for the sake of their craft. At times See writes with great vision and offers practical support but at other times she drifts towards a personal memoir that is scattered and irrelevant. But for beginning writer's searching for advice on the business and some of the processes involved in paving that golden road towards publication this book is well worth delving into. <br /> <br />The process of writing is given great attention in this book by Carolyn See however it is geared towards the beginning writer trying to learn the ABC's of the business. See has been successful as a writer using her exercises and theories but she seems to lack creative vision in this book preferring instead to stay on the practical side. But overall this is a wonderful book to keep on your shelf for reference when all else fails and you are suffering from a bout of writer's block. With methodical precision See will have you back in the game.  <br />	2005-02-08
US	50882938	R2PEGP0H7F9I2N	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	3	8	16	N	N	A Calculated Blasphemy or Literature?	This novel must be read with an educated mind or at least a cultural understanding of what it produced in order to benefit from its pages. It is not a simple read; in fact I found it quite needlessly lengthy and cumbersome but it just might teach you something important about the conditions of faith in other parts of the world. <br /> <br />As a novel, \\"The Satanic Verses,\\" is an epic about human frailty and the ever present battle between good and evil. It begins in the English Channel with a crashing plane and two men who seem to fall from the sky. Gibreel Farishta, an Indian movie star, borders between a life of excess and consumption and life as an archangel who has lost his faith. It is often difficult to tell where Gibreel is really coming from. Saladin Chamcha returns from Bombay to London where he hovers between life and death as either human or a strangely metamorphosed creature resembling a devil. Neither man contains pure evil or innocent good so the struggle to live or die causes them to knock against the doors of heaven and hell with equal regard. It is a very human struggle written behind a fairy-tale idealism. <br /> <br />Salman Rushdie is obviously well educated and his writing borders upon snobbishness having missed the ability to relate to an audience rather than attempt to impress one. In my opinion this novel was horribly calculated in order to anger an already emotional crowd while reaching the echelons of controversy and thus further his debatable career. Had Rushdie been a truly great writer of literature he wouldn't have needed the now notorious backlash to sell his ideas. The difficulty with this novel exists in its complicated cultural references making it far too remote for an average reader to understand unless they are willing to spend a few hours educating themselves to the ways of India, the Middle East and Islamic religious practices. Rushdie writes with a frenzied chaos and forgets to reach out towards the average reader. But his writing certainly begs for a deeper understanding if in fact one actually does exist. <br /> <br />A few recommendations prior to taking on this novel, be sure to have at hand a dictionary, a book on Indian and Middle Eastern history, an Indian slang reference, of course the Holy Qur'an and possibly, \\"The Rushdie Affair,\\" (by Daniel Pipes) to explain it all. At the minimum you must have a very vivid imagination, an extremely open and tolerant mind and finally the ultimate desire to learn something new. Rushdie's words will have your mind spinning in several directions at once maybe this pattern is purposeful to some extent, if you don't pay attention you just might miss some of the worst slights. At the core of all the controversy are a few verses that the Prophet Muhammad was supposed to have written (by some historic accounts) to please authorities so that he could continue his preaching's. These verses seem to acknowledge Meccan goddesses and allowed nobles to accept the Prophet but it also placed Islam in controversy because the entire basis of the religion is monotheistic, the Qur'an without fault and these verses placed doubt behind the entire validity of Islam if in fact they were ever considered by the Prophet. The angel Gabriel is said to have grumbled about Muhammad's actions claiming the acceptance of goddesses to be stemming from Satan himself. Thus the verses were stricken from God's word by God himself via Gabriel. Rushdie implies further that the scripture which Islam is based upon, the Holy Qur'an, was in fact not written by God through the angel Gabriel, but from the man Muhammad who instead dictated words to Gabriel, thus making Islam human rather than faith based. Here is where the sacrilege came into play because Rushdie implied that Islamic faith is deceitful. Rushdie attempts to cover his tracks through creative uses of names and historical references, i.e. using the name Mahoud for Muhammad and Jahilia (\\"ignorance\\" in Arabic) for Mecca. Needlessto say Rushdie placed his own head on a platter and it appears he served it up without naive innocence but rather with a huge slathering of egoism! I think that people of any faith will be able to see the injustice and a fine line appears between independent thought and all out blasphemy.           <br />	2005-01-17
US	50882938	R1AWPN6RSD0E2U	0765809966	272692347	The Rushdie Affair: The Novel, the Ayatollah and the West	Books	4	5	9	N	N	More Serious Than an Affair	This book is a must read for anyone contemplating the reading of Salman Rushdie's, \\"The Satanic Verses.\\" It places into perspective an insight into all of the hoopla.  <br /> <br />Salman Rushdie wrote a little book back in 1988 that literally placed his head on a platter. Was it literature or blasphemy against the Islamic religion? The debate continues to this day. In this book Daniel Pipes (author of several books on the Middle East), attempts to explain the controversy that exists around Rushdie's words. The satanic verses are basically a few words referring to the existence of Meccan goddesses and whether or not they were acknowledged by the Prophet Muhammad. Apparently historical beliefs exist that suggest the possibility of Muhammad being coerced by nobles to recognize their idols/goddesses in exchange for a chance to continue preaching within their vicinity without restrictions. The problem with this theory is that it then makes the religion of Islam non-existent as a faith because it goes against the monotheistic belief that Islam is based upon and also suggests that Muhammad wrote the Holy Qur'an as a human being and not as an inspired prophet of God. Rushdie ran into trouble when he wrote an extremely blasphemous novel based on these controversial verses and basically laughed into the face of the Islamic faith ruffling some very fundamentalist feathers along the way. <br /> <br />Daniel Pipe brings a relatable book to the table which explains how Rushdie, the Ayatollah and the West started and resolved the controversy surrounding, \\"The Satanic Verses.\\" What was once a complicated issue now seems entirely explainable from all fronts due to this book by Pipes. Rushdie is explained as a highly educated man who spends his life basically making a mockery of many things with an intellectual snobbery and seemingly massive ego. However Rushdie has a right to freedom of speech that is without question, but was that right taken to extremes in order to create a platform for infamy? In my opinion Rushdie knew exactly what he was creating and in fact weathered the storm quite well while receiving a mountain of publicity and notoriety that quite possibly the novel on its own doesn't stand up to. I believe the average reader would not be able to relate to Rushdie's weighty style and cultural references and that had the uproar been non-existent the novel would be relegated to the discount book pile and soon forgotten. Rushdie has great marketing skills but at what price? <br /> <br />So why such a violent response? Pipes writes a thorough explanation as to why the Ayatollah decreed a fatwa against Rushdie and his publishers. In the western world this action appears rather harsh but in the Islamic tradition of punishment towards individuals who blaspheme God it was merely an action supported by a law most westerners do not understand. Call it cultural divide if you will with a huge exclamation point! And so it goes. This book provides additional insight into the ever present differences between the Middle East and the Western world and continues to pertain to modern issues as well. From a tolerant God stems the intolerance of man and his religions. After reading this book you might begin to understand the serious faith of the Islamic world and the laws they live by. Although we live in a complicated world taking a step towards understanding one another can begin with well-rounded explanations such as those found within this book by Daniel Pipe. The ideas are multifaceted but very necessary to contemplate in order to be a citizen of the world today.      <br />	2005-01-17
US	50882938	R2KPKF3X0GTO8I	1888602317	687051963	Synchronicity: The Promise of Coincidence	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Just Coincidence?.....You Decide	This little book is perfect for anyone suffering from a bout of fortunate coincidences or a spell of those eerie occurrences that send shivers up and down your spine.<br /><br />Synchronicity is defined as meaningful coincidences and the idea was brought to the forefront by famed psychologist Carl Jung. In this book Deike Begg discusses further meaning to the word and the actions which commonly occur. Begg discovered her own series of coincidences during her research on the Holy Grail; she often ended up right where she needed to be despite the remoteness of her searching. This led her to believe she was being shown the way toward answers she was seeking and she found that if she kept her logic out of the picture and followed the lead of this phenomenon she was always placed in a position of learning. She found that human beings experience this concept at a higher rate when taken out of their normal settings and behaviors. Begg suggests that loved ones we are connected to often find connection through synchronistic events. This fact can be traced to a series of connected events that often occurs after a loved one is lost for example through death. Many times nature comes into play with birds or some other natural being hovering around as if to say goodbye. Cases of such events have been described throughout history from various sources and despite being disregarded by logic and science the events continue to crop up yet remain unexplained.<br /><br />I read this book in one afternoon after receiving a few too many \\"signs\\" that something was in the air. While at times Begg may come across as a little new-agy for logical minds you have to allow your mind to expand upon the ideas she presents in order to grasp the concept. Do angels or divine interventions really exist? Begg offers the idea that angels aren't necessarily found in full heavenly gear, in fact at times they may arrive as a passing stranger who happens to offer a few words of advice. It may sound strange but getting lost isn't always a bad event according to Begg who appears to be notoriously taking the \\"wrong\\" path only to find another direction that ends up being right. And of course animals offer human beings yet another avenue to explore. How many times do \\"lost\\" animals suddenly appear on a doorstep only to deepen life through some unexplained act? If you possess an unalterable scientific or factual mind Begg's book probably won't appeal to you but it may have been synchronicity that brought you to this point, don't pass up the opportunity to learn something new and possibly find an alternative direction.nge but getting lost isn't always a bad event according to Begg who appears to be notoriously taking the \\"wrong\\" path only to find another direction that ends up being right. And of course animals offer human beings yet another avenue to explore. How many times do \\"lost\\" animals suddenly appear on a doorstep only to deepen life through some unexplained act? If you possess an unalterable scientific or factual mind Begg's book probably won't appeal to you but it may have been synchronicity that brought you to this point, don't pass up the opportunity to learn something new and possibly find an alternative direction.  <br />	2005-01-11
US	50882938	R1R7FM12YPX0U6	0743272935	412606618	The Good Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	All Life Can Relate to Earth	Pearl S. Buck delivers a brilliantly written novel about life during pre-revolutionary China capturing all of the harshness and splendor of this well deserving country.<br /><br />Wang-Lung begins life as a poor farmer struggling to make his way in the world. He spends his days toiling in an infertile field until he finds his wife O-lan. O-lan works as a servant in a rich family's home so she carries within herself a work ethic and many valuable clues on how to prosper. She agrees to be taken away by Wang-Lung and marries him without knowing where this decision will eventually take her. Intermingled within the tale of Wang-Lung, O-lan and the earth are children still to arrive, relatives who need taking care of and the rise and fall of wealth during a developing China. The story is about struggle, success and the inevitable despair of too much wealth and not enough value. Much of this story's importance lies within the suggestion of beauty and whether true exquisiteness is found in a youthful, naive girl with porcelain skin and bound feet or whether age, wisdom and a hard-working nature represents the idea more truthfully, for does true beauty lie only in the physical or is it held deeper within?<br /><br />Pearl S. Buck writes with a wonderful flow making this seemingly simple tale into something hauntingly beautiful. She touches upon the contradictions of Chinese society in its pre-revolutionary time, beauty and wealth is awarded while workers struggling to survive are often left to die in the very earth they toil. The price of a woman's beauty is brought forth delicately here with references to brothels, the horribleness of foot binding and the useless throwing away of female babies. Buck brings her readers deep into the earth of China and she allows us to suffer and emote right beside her characters. Wang-Lung will bring you a range of emotion including grating disappointment, O-lan provides a grounding strength that perseveres throughout this saga, Lotus Flower offers calculated opportunity and becomes the fear of all married women. Buck's characters carry depth and possess such heart that they will stay with you for days on end. But the real grounding force here is the earth that loamy fertile soil that provides for us all but can always take what it gives away with such tremendous force.Flower offers calculated opportunity and becomes the fear of all married women. Buck's characters carry depth and possess such heart that they will stay with you for days on end. But the real grounding force here is the earth that loamy fertile soil that provides for us all but can always take what it gives away with such tremendous force.  <br />	2004-12-09
US	50882938	R35SYXGSEPSBP0	0140282777	569271944	Big Fish: A Novel of Mythic Proportions	Books	5	4	4	N	N	It Takes An Ocean To Hold This Fish!	Daniel Wallace has written an adult fairy tale that can appeal to the ages, it's about families and tall tales, about truth versus reality and about what makes a person decide to get up and go each and every morning. <br /> <br />William Bloom is faced with his father's death and forced to deal with his tall telling father's view of how his life unfolded. Edward Bloom spent his life spinning a myth and created a legend in his own mind. As William sorts through all of the fantasy lives his father created it leads one to wonder where the truth begins and the daydream ends. Edward Bloom was loved by everything in his made-up world, he could do the whole thing faster and better and he also met the most amazing people along the way. William searches for his real father amongst the ruins of his tales and ends up conducting his own inherited legend in an unintentional twist of fate. William creates his father's death in four different ways in hopes of finding the perfection worthy of his imaginative father. In doing so he finds more than he bargained for and he skims the line between realities and dreams himself. <br /> <br />Wallace is a beautiful writer and has written a book like no other here. With a sense of humor and a child's idyllic wonder he tells his own tall tale through the depth of his characters. His readers will be taken on a very special journey that crosses the bridge between a warped reality and a boring everyday life. Finding the enjoyment in an exaggerated fib here and there can't be all that bad. If it takes a fantasy to fully experience life then so be it, sometimes tall tales lead us away from nightmares. Wallace brings us a wonderful fantasy laced with the sentimentality of a son yearning for a deeper understanding of his father as he lay dying. Written in almost a fairy tale format with short clips of wonder and longer snips full of moral fiber Wallace's story is unforgettable. Big Fish will make you smile, laugh and even shed a mountain of tears but mostly it will make you appreciate your own family's legends and search for a few new fish in that great big sea of dreams.  <br />	2004-12-09
US	50882938	R2388MBXCMFQEA	0156787334	891560072	A Room of One's Own	Books	4	8	8	N	N	What Every Woman Writer Needs....	This essay taken from a lecture that Virginia Woolf gave to students in England during 1928 is an essential reading for writers and feminists alike.<br /><br />During the 1920's women writing literature were still struggling for a voice without prejudice. Virginia Woolf emerged as one of the first feminist voices ready to speak out against the silenced history of women writers and historians. In this book she argues that any woman serious about writing must have 500 pounds per year and a room of her own in which to capture a few moments of silence and restore her voice back to power without the pull of all her \\"womanly\\" responsibilities. Woolf seems to believe that one of the only true literary voices, one that wrote without anger, fear, or prejudice was Shakespeare and that his works have lasted because of the extension of this idea. Woolf discusses Br&ouml;nte and leans towards a woman writing with anger the seeps forth in her words and of Austen she expresses appreciation for what she must have endured in order to publish her works in a male dominated industry. Woolf clearly criticizes writer's that allow their gripes to appear in their works rather than their true talents. She appears hopeful that the future holds another Shakespeare and that inevitably it will be a woman who writes so extraordinarily this time around.<br /><br />Woolf shows herself to be one of the first true feminists our society had during her lifetime. She unabashedly criticizes a society dominated and silenced by men who felt it their duty to protect women from their own fear. Her critique of professors who openly claim women to be inferior is turned towards them as men concerned instead with being superior. She insists that the enlargement of men like Napoleon and Mussolini as well as the many wars society has experienced is purely because the light that is contained within women has been allowed to be dimmed by male domination. Woolf is saddened and disgusted by the fact that history and literature represented women so poorly in the past refusing to offer a woman as being anything more than a lover to a greater man. She also indicates that the suffrage movement probably contributed towards males feeling challenged by something far inferior to their inflated superiority. Her words are quite strong for a woman of her era but also fairly futuristic in thought.<br /><br />Woolf writes of many intelligent guidelines for any writer in this book. She offers a suggestion that one should write with an androgynous mind allowing both the softness of the feminine and the power of the masculine to come forth in words. A writer must not fear another's opinion but instead believe so forcefully in one's words that criticism cannot cause dishonesty of talent. And of course she is resolute in the fact that a writer needs a room of one's own to come to his or her center and in order to bring forth greatness without prejudice.literature represented women so poorly in the past refusing to offer a woman as being anything more than a lover to a greater man. She also indicates that the suffrage movement probably contributed towards males feeling challenged by something far inferior to their inflated superiority. Her words are quite strong for a woman of her era but also fairly futuristic in thought. <br /> <br />Woolf writes of many intelligent guidelines for any writer in this book. She offers a suggestion that one should write with an androgynous mind allowing both the softness of the feminine and the power of the masculine to come forth in words. A writer must not fear another's opinion but instead believe so forcefully in one's words that criticism cannot cause dishonesty of talent. And of course she is resolute in the fact that a writer needs a room of one's own to come to his or her center and in order to bring forth greatness without prejudice.     <br />	2004-12-08
US	50882938	R2T0R1EICPBVHP	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Ms. Woolf Would Be Proud	Michael Cunningham has written a beautiful modern version of Virginia Woolf's classic \\"Mrs. Dalloway,\\" managing to capture the complexities of the original and add a few of his own. <br /> <br />Clarissa Vaughn begins her day searching for flowers for a party she will throw to celebrate an award her writer friend, Richard, has won. It is Richard who compares Clarissa to the famous literary character \\"Mrs. Dalloway.\\" As Clarissa goes about her day we are taken back in time to meet Virginia Woolf as she begins to write her classic story. And as we read Virginia's beginning words another of Cunningham's characters, Mrs. Brown, picks up the book to read....\\"Mrs. Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself.\\" Cunningham weaves the story of three women into one, all suffer from melancholy, and all struggle with an aspect of her day as they each deal with their own hours in circumstantial and age related ways. Mrs. Brown fails at baking a cake, Clarissa fails as a friend, and Virginia wonders how she failed in life but all the while lurks \\"Mrs. Dalloway,\\" going about her day hoping to extinguish her own emptiness.  <br /> <br />Cunningham has managed something quite extraordinary with his re-written modern version of \\"Mrs. Dalloway.\\" In his version the famous character is free to experience her true heart with the freedoms that modern society has provided. Clarissa and Sally have carried their infatuation from the original story into a committed lesbian relationship here. Richard, a tortured and reluctant soul, finds himself a character confronting AIDS and pondering the direction of his life while still seemingly obsessed with Clarissa. Clarissa's daughter is again pursued for her youth and vitality by both old and angry lesbians seeking her energy. The party begins the day but in Cunningham's novel the ending arrives quite differently. Cunningham writes beautifully and captures a whisper of Woolf as he goes along to reveal how \\"Mrs. Dalloway,\\" may have went about herday had she experienced this age. Cunningham guides us between his three stories always sure to connect them in some seemingly insignificant way that is actually hauntingly real. <br /> <br />While I fully believe Cunningham's work here can stand on its own I also believe it is enhanced with a familiarity to Virginia Woolf's original story. As a reader I did not grasp all of the intricacies of Cunningham's novel until I had read Woolf's \\"Mrs. Dalloway,\\" and then re-read Cunningham, only then was I able to understand just where Cunningham's ideas stemmed from and fully marveled at his talent. But no matter how you read between the lines this novel is well worth the hours spent within its pages. <br />	2004-12-08
US	50882938	R2RFLX119Z4GOH	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Cumbersome Yet Delightful	This modern classic novel is not an easy read but it hides a multitude of reasons to keep reading between its cumbersome lines. <br /> <br />Mrs. Dalloway leaves her upper crust English home one bright morning to buy flowers for her party. In the day that opens up Mrs. Dalloway crosses paths and encounters old friends to the point that she spends her day in contemplation, something it appears she hasn't done for quite some time. Against the backdrop of a ticking Big Ben Clarissa Dalloway remembers her youth, her exuberance and her dislike for societies norms but interestingly finds herself to be all that she distasted as a vibrant young woman filled with a sense of freedom. In her world is the ever moody, Peter Walsh, a man who never quite left his love behind as he watched Clarissa walk away with Richard Dalloway so many years ago and Sally (her long lost best friend) who once contributed to Clarissa's immature whims. Unknowingly Septimus Warren Smith lurks behind the day in his war-torn madness and he becomes a factor in Mrs. Dalloway's delightful day. <br /> <br />Virginia Woolf wrote this novel in 1925 many years prior to her own mental illness and suicide, but within the lines of this novel I sensed a tortured soul and a scattered but calculated mind at work. I admit I struggled with Woolf's writing style and never quite found a fit that felt right. She writes with such stops and starts that one must almost be a literary professor to keep up with her thoughts as they are strung out into extraordinarily long sentences laced with a multitude of punctuations. I found that I was often lost on what character she was delving into and had to go back and re-read entire paragraphs to figure out where I had lost her thought. She is certainly demanding of one's attention! Interestingly enough there are many references to water in this novel and I felt the beginnings of a connection between Woolf's characters and her own suicide method. Don't expect simplicity in Woolf shebelieved that her style of calculated impressionism would open up the art of the novel. Certainly in one day Mrs. Dalloway experiences what most people search a lifetime for and I found Woolf's explanation of aging quite moving, \\"But age had brushed her; even as a mermaid might behold in her glass the setting sun on some very clear evening over the waves. There was a breath of tenderness; her severity, her prudery, her woodenness were all warmed through now....\\" <br /> <br />I recommend watching the film, \\"Mrs. Dalloway,\\" with Vanessa Redgrave after reading this book once or twice because somehow bringing Woolf's characters to life gives them a less elite meaning and allows for a bit of commonness and intimacy. But to grasp the meaning wrapped in Woolf's prose this novel must be read over and over again. For so fragile a creature as Woolf ended up being she is by far one of the strongest writers to have graced this world and her work is something to spend hours pondering over. <br />	2004-11-26
US	50882938	R3TVC6BM4HC3VQ	0810940779	49255099	CAMILLE CLAUDEL:  A Life	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Life.....If You Could Call It That!	Camille Claudel was an amazing Parisian sculptress who lived far before time was good to her and this biography does her justice...finally!<br /><br />Born in 1864, Camille Claudel grew up with an ambition un-worthy of her sexual status. She held within her being an artistic fire that was only extinguished by supposed madness. I have the feeling that had this woman been alive today her art and her spirit would thrive. But during the 19th century women were still meant to be barefoot and pregnant with no ambition other than being a wife and mother. Claudel struggled to represent her art and her spirit was destroyed by those she loved the most. She fought against a mother who wanted to keep her quiet and reserved, she defied her brother's idealistic religious beliefs and she competed against the world renowned artiste, Auguste Rodin. Despite the odds against her she created many works of pure and exquisite beauty proving that women could surpass men if given a chance. But because of her spirited talent she was eventually relegated to a hospital for the insane due to her inability to deal with the pressures of a love not returned (with Rodin), financial ruin and a lack of respect for her hard honed works.<br /><br />Camille Claudel captured the struggles of love, aging and sexism in her famous sculptures: Jeune Fille a la Gerbe (1887), Giganti (1886), Vertumme et Pomone (1905), La Valse (1905), Clotho (1893), L'Implorante (1894-1905) and the magnificent L'Age mur (1902). Her abilities were innate but fine tuned through her affiliation with Auguste Rodin. In this relationship Camille flourished at first, guided under the wing of a master (24 years her senior), but she soon succumbed to his jealous competitiveness and his inability to commit fully to her love. Comparing the two sculptors one finds Claudel to be the true master because she refines lines that Rodin tends to leave unbalanced. Their competitive natures are apparent in the similarities of ideas but in my opinion Claudel outshines her \\"mentor.\\" Claudel created sculptures from many mediums some plaster, some clay, many marble and even onyx, jade and bronze as well as dabbling in other art forms such as charcoals and portrait paintings. Many of Claudel's best works remain lost due to her internment and her loss of ability to control her own work. She also destroyed many of her own pieces in her angry despair believing them to be under jeopardy of being stolen by \\"Rodin and his gang.\\" Thankfully the art world has managed to retain most of her great pieces and they currently reside in (of all places) the Rodin Museum in Paris.<br /><br />This biography is a wonderful read being both interesting and factual and additionally very well written by Odile Ayral-Clause. Camille Claudel lived a tragic life full of ups and downs eventually ending in complete despair. Her life is interesting because she was one of the forerunners for women's rights in that she refused to be dominated by male society and ferociously attacked anyone who attempted to destroy her dreams, unfortunately in 19th century Paris her actions labeled her insane, remember a woman who chose to wear pants was considered a criminal unless they obtained special permission from the police to do so and it was a popular thought at the time that talented women possessed genitalia very similar to men! I think society was more insane than Miss Claudel and I will forever wonder what she could have contributed had she been born in this century. The ending of this woman's tale is heartbreaking in itself but every page in between provides an eye-opening experience of what it must have been like to be an artistic woman during an age controlled by men.opinion Claudel outshines her \\"mentor.\\" Claudel created sculptures from many mediums some plaster, some clay, many marble and even onyx, jade and bronze as well as dabbling in other art forms such as charcoals and portrait paintings. Many of Claudel's best works remain lost due to her internment and her loss of ability to control her own work. She also destroyed many of her own pieces in her angry despair believing them to be under jeopardy of being stolen by \\"Rodin and his gang.\\" Thankfully the art world has managed to retain most of her great pieces and they currently reside in (of all places) the Rodin Museum in Paris. <br /> <br />This biography is a wonderful read being both interesting and factual and additionally very well written by Odile Ayral-Clause. Camille Claudel lived a tragic life full of ups and downs eventually ending in complete despair. Her life is interesting because she was one of the forerunners for women's rights in that she refused to be dominated by male society and ferociously attacked anyone who attempted to destroy her dreams, unfortunately in 19th century Paris her actions labeled her insane, remember a woman who chose to wear pants was considered a criminal unless they obtained special permission from the police to do so and it was a popular thought at the time that talented women possessed genitalia very similar to men! I think society was more insane than Miss Claudel and I will forever wonder what she could have contributed had she been born in this century. The ending of this woman's tale is heartbreaking in itself but every page in between provides an eye-opening experience of what it must have been like to be an artistic woman during an age controlled by men.  <br />	2004-10-26
US	50882938	R2ER5DKDXLF5FN	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Entirely Readable Classic	Finally, an interesting, timeless and understandable classic that has at least one character that will appeal and bring recognition to every reader, Tolstoy is a master at storytelling and this epic novel is absolutely exquisite.<br /><br />The title character, Anna Karenina, is the essence of selfishness and seduction, living life as a married and wealthy woman who abhors her older husband she finds another truth. In parallel another searching soul, Konstantin Levin, finds a different truth following a deep and abiding heart. Tolstoy mastered the ability to include two stories into one with this novel almost giving his readers a choice between living life right and choosing to live life wrong. The results convey the consequences of each character's actions. Interestingly enough the two main characters never directly connect until the novel comes towards its end although Anna and Levin have been remotely connected through other characters throughout the book. The story is complex but certainly far from cumbersome.<br /><br />As for the tragic romance of the character Anna Karenina I found her to be unkind at best. She may be extraordinarily beautiful and capable of seducing the charms of any man but she never fooled me. As a woman I began by feeling sorry for her desperation and her confusion over loving security versus passion. But I soon realized that she is a grown woman, spoiled and pampered but most importantly a mother and I felt her choices should have been more responsible. Her life reflects her inability to make mature decisions and I often thought back to the exuberance and silliness of youth as I read her tale. By the end of the novel I was not surprised to find her ultimate choice completely wrapped up in herself and in disregard for anyone she ever \\"loved.\\" Tolstoy clearly captured all the excess of a life lived for oneself and the self-absorption of the beautiful in his title character.<br /><br />I found my heart following Konstantin Levin in his liberal pursuit of happiness and connection to the world. He turns away from the profanities of wealth and becomes a hands-on farmer with an understanding for the poor muzhiks who sow his fields by his side. Levin represents the hard working class and he gives voice to his servants rather than abusing them as the rich tend to do. He is a man tortured by questions regarding his faith and if God in fact exists. This exploration by Tolstoy is mind opening and something to read often. Levin is a character who knows about love, both unrequited and committed and this character is a man after my heart! His strength is in his being and his richness in his soul while the rest of society insists on finding their wealth superficially he maintains an integrity not found in other characters. I will be forever perplexed as to why this classic tale did not carry Levin's name rather than Anna's.<br /><br />I recommend this novel to everyone! Despite its length and the intimidation of being a classic written by a Russian it is an easy and absorbing read. The complexities of each character are well thought out and explained in many ways by Tolstoy. This novel is worthy of its classic status because it is timeless. All of the triumphs and tragedies of life and love in this 1870's novel apply strangely enough today and it is completely relatable. My favorite line from this immense novel is, \\"If good has a cause, it is no longer the good; if it has a consequence - a reward - it is also not the good. Therefore the good is outside the chain of cause and effect.\\" Tolstoy not only writes brilliantly but he teaches with great enlightenment as well. The wealth in this novel is not with Anna Karenina but in Tolstoy's constant message to live life well and to seek personal fulfillment outside of the inhibitions of love.his liberal pursuit of happiness and connection to the world. He turns away from the profanities of wealth and becomes a hands-on farmer with an understanding for the poor muzhiks who sow his fields by his side. Levin represents the hard working class and he gives voice to his servants rather than abusing them as the rich tend to do. He is a man tortured by questions regarding his faith and if God in fact exists. This exploration by Tolstoy is mind opening and something to read often. Levin is a character who knows about love, both unrequited and committed and this character is a man after my heart! His strength is in his being and his richness in his soul while the rest of society insists on finding their wealth superficially he maintains an integrity not found in other characters. I will be forever perplexed as to why this classic tale did not carry Levin's name rather than Anna's. <br /> <br />I recommend this novel to everyone! Despite its length and the intimidation of being a classic written by a Russian it is an easy and absorbing read. The complexities of each character are well thought out and explained in many ways by Tolstoy. This novel is worthy of its classic status because it is timeless. All of the triumphs and tragedies of life and love in this 1870's novel apply strangely enough today and it is completely relatable. My favorite line from this immense novel is, \\"If good has a cause, it is no longer the good; if it has a consequence - a reward - it is also not the good. Therefore the good is outside the chain of cause and effect.\\" Tolstoy not only writes brilliantly but he teaches with great enlightenment as well. The wealth in this novel is not with Anna Karenina but in Tolstoy's constant message to live life well and to seek personal fulfillment outside of the inhibitions of love.   <br />	2004-10-22
US	50882938	R28V1BHM18QNE	0385510012	398634354	The Swallows of Kabul: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Worth Swallowing!	This little novel about the atrocities suffered by Afghani people is a real eye-opener and only takes an afternoon to get through but it will stay with you for a lifetime. <br /> <br />Yasmina Khadra is actually a man, Mohammed Moulessehoul, and he has written a hauntingly beautiful novel filled with spirit and tragedy along with many important truths. Khadra takes his readers through the daily lives of two main characters along with their wives and profoundly reveals the harshness of life in Kabul under the Taliban rule. In a country out of control and under a religious zealot scrutiny we meet Moshen and his wife Zunaira. Moshen is changing and sadly falling to the stresses of what his once enjoyable life has become. His wife Zunaira, still extraordinarily beautiful and strong now finds herself shrouded in darkness under a dirty burqa and within the walls of her home now boarded up. Moshen and Zunaira are subjected to abuses outside their home and begin to lose their sense of self-worth thus expanding the despair into their relationship at home as well. Another family exists in Kabul who will play an integral part in the lives of Moshen and Zunaira, this couple is Atiq and his wife Musarrat. Atiq must work and he finds himself employed at a woman's jail and becomes the last person who walks the imprisoned women towards their executions. Atiq can see the injustice but can do nothing about the rules imposed upon society by the Taliban. His wife, Musarrat, is aged and ailing under the strain of life and the lack of healthcare but she is Atiq's one shining light. Khadra weaves the lives of these two families into one that will remain in your heart. <br /> <br />Watching how life unfolds in Afghanistan today on the TV does not give the actual existence a voice but this novel by Khadra certainly does. It is possible to smell the stench, to breathe the filth, to taste the bitterness and to see the destruction through Khadra's words. He touches upon the way a life changeswhen faced with circumstances no longer under individual control. He makes sense out of hatred and the depths of hopelessness suffered by people who see no future. So where do they turn? Khadra describes so eloquently the beginnings of \\"terrorism\\" in this verse, \\"Whenever Atiq sees these children, he feels a deep uneasiness. They're invading the city inexorably, like the packs of wild dogs that turn up out of nowhere, feed in rubbish dumps and garbage cans, eventually colonize whole neighborhoods, and keep the citizenry at bay. The innumerable madrassas, the religious schools that spring up like mushrooms on every street corner, no longer suffice to hold all the children. Every day, their numbers increase and their threat grows, and no one in Kabul cares.\\" Khadra provides a key to the world on where \\"terrorism\\" begins and shows the world that hate and more violence isn't the way to end something that begins in such misery. This little book of insight into life within Kabul is sometimes hard to swallow but then all medicine starts out that way until the benefits are reaped.   <br />	2004-10-17
US	50882938	R1SA3EI7BDPFMP	0679779183	555275472	George Sand: A Woman's Life Writ Large	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Life Lived Greatly	George Sand lived larger than many lives today during a time when women were cattle and broodmares she managed to enforce the beginnings of feminism upon French society. <br /> <br />Born Aurora Dupin, George Sand changed her name to that of a man so that she could write and earn a living during 19th century France, by doing so she made herself as famous for her lifestyle and character as for her writings. Sand is explained as an extraordinarily complex woman who refuses to stay in a box that denies her freedom. She explores passion and sexual escapades with such renowned figures as, Alfred Musset, Chopin, Liszt, Flaubert and many others not so well known. Sand laughed in society's face and stunned them all with her outrageous take on life becoming one of the world's first feminists, defending the rights of women in marriage and in a masculine culture. Sand walked around Paris alone, dressed in men's clothing and assumed herself to be free of the stigmas most women cowered to; for this Sand must be acknowledged and Belinda Jack has accomplished that in this interesting biography of Sand's life. <br /> <br />Belinda Jack writes well but tends to stick to many facts and less description. She keeps this biography geared on Sand and her accomplishments rather than the scandals that most people place their attentions on. Sand is explained as a child who grew up conflicted on status and her place in life, through this she appears capable of staying on the outside of society and becoming a great observer of human nature and character. It is said that Sand had so many relationships because she needed inspiration for her stories. Jack writes about the connection Sand has to animals and nature, to philosophical ideologies and religious teachings and interestingly enough it seems that Sand felt guided to art because she felt that the magnificence of God existed within the creation of beauty. Sand's approach to life seems to fit into modern society rather than the one she was born into and we can only imagine what an extraordinary woman she would be today had she lived in this century. One of my favorite lines in the book is, \\"Not to be noticed as a man, one has first to be used to not being noticed as a woman.\\" <br /> <br />George Sand is astonishing and a true rebel against the machine that tries to hold individuals back from independent thought. This biography brings to light the struggle of women and George Sand overcomes it by portraying a man with more depth and compassion than the lesser gender has ever been capable of. It seems that Sand was so often bored in her relationships because the men lacked her strength and although she was not considered a proper beauty her talented personality and search for freedom was what caused her to be the ultimate femme fatale! Sand's life is worth celebrating and Belinda Jack has done an excellent job in bringing this shining light back into existence.  <br />	2004-09-14
US	50882938	R8LW5V6O67YN5	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Power of A Pearl	Tracy Chevalier has written a beautiful novel of Dutch life in the 1600's blended with the art of the renowned painter Vermeer. <br /> <br />The story revolves around a young Dutch girl named Griet who is employed by a mistress and her husband (Vermeer) to work as a maid in their household. Griet comes from a poor family who struggles to survive after an accident takes the sight of her father and leaves him unable to provide for his family. As a young maid Griet tries to fit in with the large family and tangled webs they weave. She is fascinated by the art of Vermeer and becomes an unofficial assistant to the great man. But the story lies in the subtle nuances and splendid metaphors that Chevalier creates to guide her characters along. Through her beautiful writing you will fall in love with the period, the art and with young Griet. <br /> <br />I recommend having a Vermeer art book near by as you read so that you can reference the many paintings as Chevalier leads you through their creation. Along with the assistance of her character Griet we are able to imagine how Vermeer used moments in time, the camera obscura and objects placed just so to create his art. All of the fiction could easily be something that actually occurred because little is known of Vermeer's life behind the scenes. Chevalier manages to paint her own masterpiece with this lovely novel. Once you begin to see life through Griet's eyes you won't be able to put it down and love will seem so harsh in our own time period as compared to the subtle innocence of the 1600's when a touch on the lips or a look into a sparkling eye would produce shockwaves of emotion. Find out how a little pearl earring can produce so much elegance yet hold the most complicated of truths.     <br />	2004-08-23
US	50882938	RE3H9ZFT0LSJI	0312311354	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, 1939-1945	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Listen To This Man's Heart	This book should be required reading. Within the pages of this book a wealth of knowledge about hatred, prejudice and the human's desire to survive, exists. <br /> <br />Wladyslaw Szpilman was one man who survived a living hell during the Holocaust of WWII. His story is better than great and gut wrenching. Residing in Poland and living a happy life as a Jewish pianist, Szpilman, shows no signs of his upcoming peril. Slowly his world crumbles and hoards of Polish Jews are herded around like cattle, killed and tortured in the streets and separated from their loved ones. Szpilman manages to defy death often and unthinkably. Soon he is faced with living alone in a city that no longer exists except in ruins. He eats whatever he can find, molded bread and insect infested oatmeal or flour. He drinks water left behind in canisters reeking of chemicals and drowning with insects. He avoids fire, bombings, torture but most importantly capture. His entire family is killed after they are carted away to the Nazi gas chambers but somehow this gentle man finds a reason to survive. He witnesses bodies blown apart, severed heads, crying babies stuffed in bags, dead rotting corpses litter his streets and in the end his only friend is a charred and bloated corpse he must pass over everyday for shelter. Would you, could you survive?  <br /> <br />I read this book in one day because I was unable to tear myself away from the heart of this man's story. I was reminded of the story of Job; here existed a man humble and wise who never succumbed to his suffering. His shoulders were burdened, his heart taxed and his will tested yet his spirit never wavered. Not once does he mention his hatred for the Germans, not once does he allow himself to sit back and feel sorry for himself and not once does he doubt that the war that has torn his country apart will end. Szpilman is true inspiration and the definition of hope. He writes of his survival with all of his senses intact, relating the horrible smell of rotting flesh, the taste of moldy food, the sound of death, the touch of a human being and sights of a living hell. Szpilman's true story has been made into the award winning film, \\"The Pianist,\\" and the film graciously captured almost each and every account of horror that Szpilman experienced.  <br /> <br />The most profound thing that I read in this book was the account of Szpilman being discovered by a German officer and the humanity that the officer summoned up in his soul. Both men face the chance for brutality and hatred to invade their emotions yet the two \\"enemies\\" are able to reach past the barriers society placed upon them and realize where right and wrong exists. This German soldier is another brave soul, Captain Wilm Hosenfeld, and because of his compassion for Szpilman, he helps him to survive until the war finally ends. Excerpts from Captain Hosenfeld's diary can be found at the end of this book and deserve to be read as well. Hosenfeld questions and answers why the Jewish people don't defend themselves, he recognizes that where godlessness exists so does hate, and he expresses his concern for the German nation to recover from all of the atrocities that his own country has allowed by forsaking the Jewish people. A soldier fighting a war he no longer believes in is a sad existence! This book allows us to see that good and bad exists within us all and that it is purely a matter of our strength of spirit that dictates where we will turn when faced with tragedy. Szpilman's spirit deserves your attention, his heart deserves your compassion and his life deserves respect.     <br />	2004-08-12
US	50882938	RX4F8IEO1PWEP	0060958022	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I Still Love Oranges, Maybe Not In So Many Ways	I love taking a trip to France with Joanne Harris, but this novel fell short of what Harris is normally capable of. <br /> <br />The main character is a much used Harris character, a crotchety old lady who runs a caf in a quaint little French town. Her life is a bit of a mystery but explained with flashbacks to her tragic childhood urged on by messages her mother leaves her in an old scrawled cookbook. Eventually the anger of the old woman makes sense but I was left hoping for more. Harris writes with such explanatory sensitivity to the senses that her books are normally explorations into another world. I enjoyed this novel but I didn't find it as appealing as many of her others.  <br /> <br />Harris makes a mystery out of this novel, leading the readers down paths that would have been more effective had they been written with her more unique and magical hand. Instead we are immersed in the beauty of French cooking, the countryside and in the quaintness of little villages only to be sabotaged by the harshness of corrupt Germans and a touch of the war resistance. I wish the story had been told with less effort and more lyrical meaning, as Harris is quite capable of weaving together great fairy tales of hope. I loved certain aspects of this novel but yawned through other parts. The smell of oranges will pervade your senses as you read, don't forget what Harris brings to the table despite the five quarters of this story.  <br />	2004-08-08
US	50882938	R2MXRRDCZX2RDX	0375409440	311140684	Love	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Love Isnt Always As It Seems	How can you review a Toni Morrison novel? With the humbleness and appreciation that only she deserves. Morrison is simply a masterpiece to the English language, writing with an individual prose that only she can perfect with such intensity. Her novels linger within you and ripen with age. But beware for you can never walk away reading her stories only once and \\"Love\\" begs for more.<br />The basic ideal of \\"Love\\" is as simple and as complex as love itself. Bill Cosey is the man that all of Morrison's characters love and hate with intense fervor. At the center of life for May, Christine, Heed, Junior, Vida, L and Celestial, he wraps their lives in mystery and passion like no other becoming a father, a lover, a friend, a husband, a security blanket and even a beast to all those he encounters in the little town of Up Beach. Each of Morrison's women is weakened in some way by Bill Cosey yet they find strength within one another and in love. The relationships are rich and riddled with secrecy, so much so that one read will never reveal this novel's full meaning.<br />Toni Morrison's phrasing in this book is shear literary perfection. Despite the difficulty and moments of absolute confusion that will appear while reading this novel, the effort it takes is only something to be gained. Read it once and feel satisfied, twice and be enlightened, more and feel its true gift of love.	2004-07-13
US	50882938	R2M9Q43LKNP9WT	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Give The Man A Break....and Some Respect	Whew......I have just finished reading \\"My Life\\" and I am walking away from it with a much better understanding of who Bill Clinton really is.<br />I decided to read this book, not because I ever consider myself a fan of Bill Clinton, but because I felt open to trying to understand the man behind an 8 year Presidency. I discovered in the process that the man represented by the media is at best incomplete. I also discovered that for all Clinton's faults he managed to serve our nation with strength and a relentless pursuit towards a more global America. For this I have developed a respect where there once was none. I am more aware now of the spins placed on the presidency by our media and by all of the jealous few who do not have the backbone to sit in the seat at the highest pinnacle while being in constant judgment by the entire world. It appears easy from the couch I imagine but it is much different in reality. Clinton has written an insightful account of what it must be like to exist on the top when everyone is bent on bringing you down. His presidency was so much more than \\"girlygate\\" and his contributions to our society should be admired and respected whether or not we follow his beliefs. For democracy to exist we must be willing to change our minds when necessary, to allow for expansion and growth as individuals and as human beings existing in a world much bigger than ourselves. This book provides the opportunity for those willing to get beyond the stigmas and prejudices that cause our nation such grief.<br />The best part of \\"My Life\\" in my opinion is Clinton's early years. Clinton writes about how he emerged from a normal childhood into greatness. He learned lessons along the way that formed his democratic convictions and enlightened him to the injustices of poverty, racism and prejudices. I found myself relating to him almost toe to toe in his early years and realized one of the reasons he succeeded where others like him have failed, is because he never hadto hear the word \\"can't.\\" Although he was surrounded in Southern prejudices and felt hatred and despair he was able to move beyond the grips of failing. So many people become traumatized when faced with the same circumstances that they end up fading away into oblivion rather than finding a way to make a difference, for this alone I applaud Clinton for his ability to fight life's adversities and maintain compassion in a damaged heart.<br />I found myself absolutely enthralled with Clinton's relationships with leaders from other nations. He encouraged a true global perspective on how a world ought to be run and tried his best to find happy meeting grounds to all of those he encountered. In 8 years Clinton never fell to the power trip of taking America into war. He utilized our forces when necessary, made his point and got out without many enemies internationally. He formed friendships and powerful political ties with Rabin, Arafat, Chirac, Yeltsin, Kohl, King Hussein, Obuchi, Zemin, Mandela and many other noteworthy international leaders. His efforts in North Korea, Bosnia, Israel, Russia, Northern Ireland and China led to peaceful agreements and solutions on the verge of occurrence. Clinton braved visits to Palestinian refugee camps with Arafat, North Korea, Pakistan during an uprising, China, and war-torn Bosnia. He admits his failures in Africa, specifically Rwanda and mentions that going forward his focus will remain on establishing better living conditions in that continent. But the most profound statement that I came across in this book was Clinton's idea that terrorism can be controlled through education, nutrition and better living conditions in poverty stricken countries because terrorism stopped in childhood is a better defense than igniting more hate. I wish more leaders conformed to this philosophy!<br />While I still believe Clinton caused some of his own problems I also see how he was relentlessly pursued to fail by the likes of Gingrich, Dole and Kenneth Starr. I remember being one of the bandwagon members during his investigations fully believing all of the stories I was being told by the media. Now that I see the other side of such sensationalized stories I can better appreciate Clinton's strength of character. He ran our country successfully where many lesser men would have failed under similar circumstances. For that he needs to be given credit. As for his apparent weaknesses towards women, whether it be right or wrong, it is merely a downfall of thousands of powerful men, imagine Jefferson and his slave Sally pursued by the media today! Men will be men. But what really makes a man is a willingness to admit failure and Clinton clearly does just that in many paragraphs throughout this book. <br />In my opinion this book fails in only one regard: it really needed a better editor. Clinton rambles on and on about seemingly each and every person he ever met in his entire life. Some statements are simply unimportant and should have been omitted entirely. Others could have been elaborated upon. It also would have been nice to have full chapters devoted to one international issue rather than reading bit parts here and there all through the book. It becomes confusing if you are not a master of international history and all of its components. <br />I believe this book is well worth the read regardless of your political views. It is historical, candid, interesting and at points even emotionally profound. Whether or not you like Clinton as a leader as a person he is worthy of respect and someone who continues to represent our nation internationally and in good faith. Going forward his focus will be on \\"overcoming poverty, ignorance, disease and bad government\\" as a way to end all of the hatred than stems from ignoring the true cause of terrorism. Clinton writes that through virtues such as hope, faith and love our world may no longer have to \\"see through a glass darkly.\\" My Life will inspire you towards a richer involvement in American politics, a desire to serve rather than complain and encourage you to be active in this great big world despite all of its problems. Bravo, Mr. Clinton!	2004-07-07
US	50882938	RGNVNGN7VF4EP	0898799945	724762269	What Really Matters to Me: A Guided Journal (Guided Journals)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Worth Contemplating	This is a guided journal with writing prompts to get out all of the really important matters in your life. There is alot of writing space which can be looked as good or bad depending on personal preference. I would have preferred a little less space and more prompts. This journal is simple and easy to get through and at times more than just a book with blank lines running through its spaces.	2004-06-24
US	50882938	R3NRB79ICUVFAU	158297022X	316490997	The Book of Self-Acquaintance: A Guided Journal (Guided Journals)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Great Way To See Yourself	What a great self-guided journal. This book is filled with writing prompts about yourself, your body, your relationships, your solitude, your past, your world views, your nature affiliation and finally your life goals. Most of the prompts offer just enough space to write something profound without rambling on and on. A fantastic book to fill in and leave for your family should anything happen to you. So spend some time getting to know yourself and leave a trace of your existence along the way.	2004-06-24
US	50882938	R26N60SQEA9U8U	0811821943	611796693	Soul Catcher: A Journal to Help You Become Who You Really Are	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Beautiful Inspiration	This journal is beautiful as well as practical. It is full of writing prompts, charts and artwork to inspire true soul work.<br />\\"Soul Catcher\\" is a guided journal complete with great artwork and journaling suggestions. The writing prompts are easy to relate to and inspiring, this journal begs to be written in. The section on fear and worries is my favorite I found that I could easily work through all sorts of road blocks in the way of my success. Another great section is one dealing with jealousy and obsession those often overlooked success blockers. Who wants to admit they are jealous much less obsessive?  At the end of the journal is a recommended reading list that contains great suggestions for further exploration into the psyche.<br />Sometimes a little bit of effort goes a long way. This journal will get you a few steps further than expected. So instead of letting your soul just flounder about why not start to catch it before it sprouts those angel wings.	2004-06-24
US	50882938	R3I18WSE5SPGC2	0679456368	499063811	If... Questions for the Soul	Books	4	0	1	N	N	What Do You Really Believe?	From the &quot;If&quot; series of question books this book is filled with questions that seek to find your true beliefs. With many religious and soul stirring prompts this book will start you on a journey towards the essence of your inner most soul. This book will take awhile to get through only because the questions require a bit more fore-thought if you want to get it right. So forget the chicken soup and just ask yourself a few of these insightful questions instead!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R1VN0R78W4RGVK	0679456376	287631971	If..., Volume 3: (Questions for the Game of Love)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Don't Start A Relationship Without It!	The third in the &quot;If&quot; series of question books, this little ditty is all about love and relationship ethics. Would you? Could you? Will you? A perfect gift for anyone just starting out in one of those questionable relationships! Imagine the insight into a persons values in a few innocent yet thought provoking questions. Another benefit to this book is that it is a perfect way to break the ice about all those pet-peeves you might have in the bedroom, just answer the question and hope someone is listening! Hours of fun that might save you years of heartache.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R3EJEXHEG9YL1T	078688391X	26902980	Me: Five Years from Now: The Life-Planning Book You Write Yourself!	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Perfect Outline for the Future	This book is perfect for people who enjoy lists and controlling their destinies. It clearly outlines a plan for the next five years of your life.<br />If you are a person who plans things and never finishes them this book may work perfectly for you by helping to guide you towards an actual goal. The book contains a strategy for changing your life in regards to relationships, finances, careers and community involvement. Once completed you have an organized chart to follow and lean on during times when life gets off-track. <br />The only problem with this book is that it takes commitment to complete....and if you could stay committed and focused in the first place why would you need a book to point you towards your goals. With that said I still believe this book is an excellent source for discovering your goals and setting the groundwork for a great future.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2YBAVHEU3XAXV	1585420298	735845741	The Creativity Book: A Year's Worth of Inspiration and Guidance	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Worth a Year of Your Time	Eric Maisel has given us a nice book filled with inspiration and creative guidance.<br />This book is structured in 52 weekly segments starting with beginning work and ending up with a project that should be completed. Each short chapter contains a brief essay of guidance and then an inventive exercise to try on for size. <br />The author of this book, Eric Maisel, Ph.D., is a psychologist who teaches that the act of creating impacts all aspects of one's life. So this book is intended for everyone, not just those struggling to survive artistic blocks. Executives can develop new business ideas, cooks can create better dishes, lawyers can find new ways to argue, politicians can consider alternative ways to create democracy, children can become better students and so on. Overall an extremely good book for those willing to put forth a bit of effort towards creating new ideas.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R345J0DO3QVDIK	0894803204	144957138	The Book of Questions	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Can You Answer Them All?	Gregory Stock has put together a geart book filled with insightful and thought provoking questions. This little book has so much potential between its pages.<br />I originally purchased this book for myself in my continuous quest to know myself better. It took some time to get through the 200 questions, some of them easy and some requiring great moments of contemplation. This book is also useful at parties, events, dinners and when meeting someone new. It would be a great exercise for relationships as well...opening up a whole new ball game I imagine. But mostly it is just fun and something interesting to think about or discuss with friends.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R1FUTVK81T0RH6	0684871483	912497824	Kokology: The Game of Self-Discovery	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Let the Games Begin	This book was created by a Japanese psychologist and is supposed to be a study of the mind or spirit based on solid psychological principles. I am not sure how accurate the results are but I will vouch for an entertaining experience. This book contains 53 situations all with a choice of responses and a key to what your particular response means. The idea behind the games is to reveal hidden beliefs and attitudes about love, work, relationships and other important avenues in life. You might be surprised at what you hide inside!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2BUQOWAZCWK7M	1577311000	282045316	A Writer's Book of Days: A Spirited Companion and Lively Muse for the Writing Life	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Your Writing Days Will Fly!	Judy Reeves has written a brilliant and inspiring book filled with writing prompts, suggestions and exercises which should be a part of every writer's desk set.<br />This book is filled with a year's worth of writing material. Each month begins with a guideline like, \\"Keep Writing,\\" and, \\"Kiss Your Frogs,\\" then offers daily writing topics, tips and suggestions for meeting the life of a writer. Reeves writes each chapter with inspirational eagerness making those days of writers block seem like history.  Her directions are easy to follow, her ideas are fun and inventive and her tips make good sense.  A must have for every serious writer!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R133GUVJNH2TEW	0785264280	556355292	The Traveler's Gift: Seven Decisions that Determine Personal Success	Books	5	36	41	N	N	An Imaginative Inspiration	This little book is brilliant, not only in its message but also in how it is presented. Andy Andrews combines history with inspiration and succeeds!<br />The story is fairly simple: a man, dissatisfied with his life, finds himself in an accident and unconscious. During this period of immobility the dissatisfied man meets several people from history who relate the laws of success in various forms. The first rule of success is \\"The Buck Stops Here\\" (Harry Truman), second \\"I Will Seek Wisdom\\" (King Solomon), third \\"I Am A Person of Action\\" (Colonel Chamberlain, Civil War Hero), fourth \\"I Have A Decided Heart\\" (Christopher Columbus), Fifth \\"Today I Will Choose To Be Happy\\" (Anne Frank), sixth \\"I Will Greet This Day With A Forgiving Spirit\\" (Abraham Lincoln) and seventh \\"I Will Persist Without Exception\\" (Archangel Gabriel). <br />The concept behind this book is unique and highly evolved. Andy Andrews has accomplished something here and after reading this book you may as well. Imagine the impact on one's life if we all had an opportunity to learn from the historical masters our life lessons. While such an experience will never happen in our actual lifetimes it is never too late to pick up a book and learn something new each and everyday. This is one of those books and it even includes a bibliography for further advice from those wise old owls not quite forgotten in the shuffle by a few who care.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2FE8R88IHYMIP	0811822443	830563771	My Dysfunctional Life:  Journal	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Who Admits They Are Dysfunctional?	A cutsey journal geared towards young girls but fun for anyone. It even contains a test to tell just how dysfunctional you really are.<br />This journal has pages of crazy graphics and fonts, places for pictures of people who make you gag, lines to record your lies and mischievousness and many quotes from famously naughty people.  A great gift for teenage girls as most of the questions are geared toward their mentality. Adults might find it fun to remember the old glory days as well. Silly and playful and fun for the young at heart.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	RQNYAEJ79K608	014026941X	925046758	What Type Am I? Discover Who You Really Are	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Type Away!	This book is based on the Myers-Briggs tests taken by many people in all walks of life, recently very big in business circles and universities. Carl Jung was influential in the development of the original idea for personality tests.<br />As far as accuracy goes I would dare to say this book gets pretty darn close to what our core personality really is. If you answer the questions as honestly as possible the book will describe you almost in a nutshell by the time you finish. Very interesting! Once you figure out what anagram you fall under this book will also offer advice for successful solutions to work, relationship and leisure problems based on personality type. <br />I highly reccommend trying this test at least once, it's fun, revealing and informative. The suggestions may also provide a bit of insight into a better fitting career and/or relationship as well....although nothing is set in stone. Just bring a pencil, an open mind and a honest heart and who knows what you will discover.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	RMNDW5H0H961N	0811830454	918541473	My Fabulous Life: Musings on a Marvelous Me	Books	3	3	3	N	N	For All the Divas In The World	This is a great gift for for anyone claiming \\"diva-status.\\" A silly journal filled with places for pictures (of yourself of course), an all about me section (for those of us who find ourselves facinating and worth mentioning), all about clothes, sex, men, shopping, and shallow silly incidents. This journal is a gag gift for adults, a real gift for teens, and a hoot for old farts bent on remembering their fabulous life as a diva.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R39POT3KPFX7CT	0375502432	945533737	Would You?: Questions to Challenge Your Beliefs	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great Way to Discover Your Character	&quot;Would You?&quot; is a book in the &quot;If&quot; series and it has 250 questions that will challenge you to discover how much character you, or anyone else, actually has. The questions are thought provoking and some almost impossible to answer. This little book will force you to THINK in ways that test your values and beliefs. It is a great conversation opener as well as something to spend a few hours in deep contemplation over. It would be a great idea for the next presidental debate!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R37PDWPRUJYMDH	0811814815	492496250	The Observation Deck: A Tool Kit for Writers (Past & Present)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Just an Observation	\\"The Observation Deck\\" is a cute boxed set from Naomi Epel for writers who suffer from writers block or other inspiration malfunctions. <br />The set from Epel contains 50 cards meant to inspire thoughts, stories or other ways of thinking during the writing process. A little book is also included that contains techniques that have worked for other writers such as \\"Eavesdrop\\" a little trick apparently used by famous writers like F. Scott Fitzgerald, Eudora Welty and many others. The book is more effective than the cards and I would like to see that thought continued in larger volume by Epel. <br />This set is a nice handy tool to have at hand when doubting your worth as a writer. Grab it for inspiration but rely on your own observations.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R3HWDWE0A86IP7	0679452869	239611674	If..., Volume 2: (500 New Questions for the Game of Life)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	More Questions.....Better Answers	This is the second book in the &quot;If&quot; series of questions. By now the answers should be easier but &quot;If 2&quot; provokes 500 more questions to contemplate each one a little deeper in theory than those contained in book one. Another great conversation piece and get-to-know-you type book.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R8UUNUTMHK49N	031228621X	245095646	A Writer's Workbook: Daily Exercises for the Writing Life	Books	4	32	35	N	N	A Real Workout!	This book is a perfect solution for those writers in need of something to write about.<br /> Caroline Sharp wrote this book after not writing for a significant period of time. She was searching for inspiration and invented her own. With this book she gives suggestions for various exercises and writing techniques. The book is meant to be done one chapter after another growing as you progress but some of the chapters are tedious and actually stopped me from writing, like the chapter on outlines (you have to write something in order to have something to outline!). I have found that skipping around works better for me only because some days are less patient than others.<br />For those of you serious writers looking for new techniques and new ideas this is a wonderful book to absorb. Sometimes the best ideas come from out of the blue and this book just gives you the blue a little bit faster.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R3PZ58IH5Z5M7H	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Who Will Your Five Be?	I almost didn't read this book simply because it is a bestseller but thankfully I overcame my prejudice and found it comforting me at a time of great need.<br />Mitch Albom has written a sweet little adult fairy-tale that reads easily, leaves an impact and even graces you with a bit of fable type wisdom. The main character, Eddie, is an old carnival man living his life alone and feeling practically useless until the day he dies trying to save someone on a ride. We follow Eddie on a magical ride through the stages of death. As Eddie goes through the death process he also reviews his life and discovers that several people he encountered in his life changed his life significantly. Some of these people were merely strangers and some loved ones, but they are all sent to meet him in his after-life process. Each small story is powerful and imaginative. <br />Little did I know how much of an impact this little book would have on me but I read it only a few short weeks before my own mother passed away. Enduring such an experience is difficult at best but I credit Mitch Albom and this little fable as a huge comfort during a time of great need. I imagine the five people my mother must be talking to right now and I smile.  Imagine the lessons we will learn if even a smidgen of this book's message turns out to be true!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2V36EXKAZT8F0	0679445358	517647844	If... (Questions For The Game of Life)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Get Your Answers Ready	What an interesting idea....&quot;If&quot; asks all those questions no one ever thinks to ask. Inspiring thoughtful answers and a few moments of contemplation. It starts out as a game and ends as a revealing guide to character. A great way to break the ice at parties and boring business dinners. I love to present this book over a bottle of wine with someone I love, you would be amazed at what you don't know about those closest to you...hours of innocent fun!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R32RH79CZIOBL5	1577312201	791787323	Inner Outings: Adventures in Journal Writing	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Outing The Real You	For journal writers who need a push to get going this is a perfect little set of inspiration. <br />\\"Inner Outings\\" is the perfect tool to have on hand for those days when journaling seems like drudgery. The Book of Exploration contains suggestions for keeping a diary and how to develop the best writing technique for your life. The book explains the cards otherwise you might be lost without it. The cards are pretty and creative but make little sense on their own standing. With titles like \\"A Gift For Me\\" and \\"Doorways\\" you would have to be very creative to find inspiration from the cards alone, but with help from the book you will discover that \\"A Gift For Me\\" could be a prompt to write about a great gift, a person, a talent, who you are a gift to, your ten best gifts and so on, while \\"Doorways\\" become real or imagined and open or closed.<br />Once you run through the cards a few times the process gets a little easier and journaling much more interesting and individual. We all wake up in the morning, go about our routines and fall into a deep slumber at night, but with this set next to your journal you might surprise yourself with how interesting you really are.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R3RA6C079S4WPC	0375502424	568050261	How Far Will You Go?: Questions to Test Your Limits	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Do You Hold Any Boundaries?	Part of the &quot;If&quot; series of question books this one will test your boundaries. Filled with questions to contemplate and perfect for open discussions with friends and lovers. Be prepared for insight into someone's moral fiber, including exposing your own!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R33WXCQOQJQLHS	0836215656	248713305	The Do It Did It Handbook	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Nice Gift for List Makers	This cute little book is a must have for list makers. With 365 lists to complete you will stay busy for at least a year coming up with new things to do and crossing off old wishes. Some of the lists are goofy and some worth saving for all time. The main idea is to complete the ideas that you originally place on your lists and not just continue making lists for the rest of your life of course. So enjoy and place the emphasis on the &quot;Did It&quot; section!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R180K2R5ZOMXF1	076790205X	989626841	All About Me: The Story of Your Life	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Leave Behind A Part of You	For those of you who enjoy getting to know yourself this is a perfect book for you. It is filled with thought provoking questions and factual data. It takes awhile to complete and probably should be re-done every few years or so.  This journal is a perfect gift to leave the world in your wake.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R1Q9OGAZ1K1EFC	0743222121	813565267	Kokology 2: More of the Game of Self-Discovery	Books	4	0	1	N	N	So You Like To Play Games?	This is part two of the Kokology series and remains much along the same lines as the first. Here you have 53 different situations to contemplate and choose a response for. Many hours of fun ensue and possibly a few surprises could crop up!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	RIR68C9L08IJI	0836221796	766722591	List Your Self: Listmaking as the Way to Self-Discovery	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Better Than A Shrink and Fun Too!	Ilene Segalove and Paul Bob Velick have several books of lists where one explores their deepest self in a fun and imaginative way. <br />&quot;List You Self&quot; is terrific fun and amazingly revealing. Each page offers a prompt and requires you to jot down a list of responses, this is best done without alot of thought because the immediate answers are the most honest. You will be asked to divulge to yourself your inner most passions, dreams and fears along with people that you find heroic or as mentor qualifiers along with many other exciting areas of exploration. The most enjoyable prompts take you back in time to old memories and favorite times.<br />I enjoy these &quot;list&quot; books as a way to get to know myself but I also see the value in these books as a way to leave behind something interesting about yourself. Parents, Grandparents and even some children could have hours of entertainment completing the lists provided while stirring up old treasured memories along the way.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R15722LRVPBANQ	1585420166	371854527	The Artist's Soul: Daily Nourishment to Support Creative Growth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Years Worth of Inspiration	This book is a perfect choice for people working on creative self-expression.<br />Linda Coons has written this book as a daily inspiration guide for artists, writers and anyone bent on a creative path in life. This book is meant as a tool for developing ways to better cope with blocks and obstacles when doing artistic projects. Each day has a short idea and then either a meditation or prayer along with an exercise that relates to the day's idea. It will take you easily through a year of inspiration without requiring too much time. The problem is that you will want to rush through the year in order to find out what you are capable of....but take your time and enjoy.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2DW231LYK9G4D	0140196099	805710111	Who Are You?: 101 Ways of Seeing Yourself (Compass)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	101 Interesting Ways To Discover Yourself?	This is a visually beautiful book with tests and profiles that are supposed to guide you towards seeing yourself better.<br />There are four sections in this book: Body Types, Feeling Types, Thinking Types and Spiritual Types. Each section contains several ways of pinpointing your unique structure. Unfortunately some of the profiles offset one another, such as having a thin body full of energy and being told later that you were born under a sign that encourages laziness....but then I don't think it is meant to be entirely accurate just entertaining. Regardless the tests and profiles are interesting and fun to do. The best part of this book is the way it makes you step out of the norm and see yourself under a new age light.<br />I recommend this book purely for the entertainment value and something interesting to do on a lazy afternoon or with friends. But to really see yourself just take a long look in a mirror and be honest!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2196XCMUTZUM7	0740722255	346531341	More List Your Self: Listmaking as the Way to Personal Discovery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More Lists and Hours of Fun	Segaove and Velick have done it again....a new &quot;list&quot; book to record your dreams, desires, hopes, wishes and fears into.<br />This is the second book in the &quot;List Your Self&quot; series. The prompts in this book are a bit deeper than the first book. This book probes into your sixth sense, hunches, prejudices, pet-peeves, financial issues, relationship quirks and many other often hidden away thoughts. Expect to delve deeper into your psyche with this one. I wouldn't leave this one sitting out on a bookshelf for just anyone to pick up and read!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R293K9JHTWYZ2S	0740702084	905457220	List Your Creative Self: Listmaking as the Way to Unleash Your Creativity	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Track Your Creativity	I recommend all of Segalove &amp; Velick's &quot;list&quot; books for people interested in knowing themselves better. This one focuses upon your creative side and exposes strengths and weaknesses you may have thought you never had.<br />This list book contains 8 chapters all centered around different aspects of a person's creativity: Favorite Things, Says Who, You've Got The Power, Heroes, Those What If's, Pride and Joy, The Lightbulb and Brave New World. Each page lists a prompt like &quot;What Do You Do When You Play?&quot; and then provides spaces for your entries. The prompts are interesting and will start the thinking process going and you might even be surprised when you read back your lists....I was. <br />For those of you who are writers or artists this book will help to un-stick you on those foggy days and may even point you in a totally different direction in your thought process so list away!	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R27TE7JGPMX8Z7	0786862505	662500082	The Book of Myself: A Do-It-Yourself Autobiography in 201 Questions	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Create A Family Treasure	I originally purchased this book for myself but found its true value as a family heirloom.<br />This book is a guided journal for writing an autobiography of your life. It contains 201 questions that are thought provoking and valuable. There are three life sections: Early Years, Middle Years and Later Years so that the journal can be written at any point in your life. Each section contains questions about family, friends, education, work/responsibilities and the world. <br />Once this book is completed it becomes invaluable. Grandparents can share life lessons, parents can preserve memories, children can start journaling and lovers can share secrets. It becomes a true treasure for the family of someone terminally ill or of someone suffering from memory loss, families can write life stories together and the ill can review a wonderful life. Create your own masterpiece to span the centuries and allow your life to matter long after you are gone.	2004-06-23
US	50882938	R2GU7S082YN1BQ	0060085894	483913583	Frida: A Biography of Frida Kahlo	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Complete and Complex Like Frida	Hayden Herrera has written an excellent portrait of the great artist Frida Kahlo, complete in thought and tender in describing a woman well lived.<br />Frida Kahlo is the ultimate survivor and represents women for their strength, tenderness, fierceness and suffering compassion. She lived during a time when women had few rights, especially Mexican women, she faced the dreadfulness of the Mexican Revolution in her early years, a bout with polio, a horrible bus accident that attempted to cripple her for life, an often unfaithful husband, criticism of her dreams, activism, accused Communism and many exciting adventures in life. She lived a true artistic life and her paintings represent the complicated nature of her inner soul. She loved hard and fought often, for her rights, her dreams and her man. While bed-ridden and suffering in the severest of agony she taught herself to paint, her body encased in a huge white cast, she painted to survive and reached the other end with a unique perspective on art. Her life and home were surrounded with color, a rainbow that never needed the promise of something golden at the end. She danced her own rhythm and never stopped walking her own path. This is a woman to be admired!<br />Herrera does an excellent job as the biographer of this phenomenally complicated woman. Her research is thorough and her suggestions entirely believable. You will be transported back in time into the life of a controversial woman who deserves every ounce of recognition that Herrera has given us.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R1LA1RNKQUSZUK	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	It Takes Solitude To Read This Novel	I have had this book on my bookshelf for years having picked it up simply because I loved the title and then finding out it is actually a classic literary epic.<br />This novel is a heavy read, at times tedious and at times quirky, it is most definitely not a book to delve into while half asleep. Gabriel Garcia Marquez forces his readers to pay attention wrapping his fantasy tales around deep and abiding characters it is sometimes very difficult to interpret where the story ends and the fairy tale begins. I found Marquez's writing style very difficult to read without having a few notes scribbled about me to refer back to. He has so many characters in the book, some with the same name, and bounces back and forth between decades that if you are an unorganized reader by page 50 you will already be lost. I am amazed at Marquez's ability to sustain his own thoughts during the writing of this novel. I found the women to be far more interesting than the men, each woman a central figure in family life as well as the most entertaining fantasies.  You will be confused, uplifted, humored, informed, saddened and satisfied when you reach the end of this unique novel.<br />I enjoyed this novel but did not find it to be the life sustaining recommendation that so many others insist it to be. So many literary professionals and celebrities have pumped this novel up to such great expectation that I would almost dare to say I was disappointed that I missed the affect it was supposed to carry. I imagine if this novel was read several times and studied with a fine toothed comb it may produce such elation. But for the average person this classic novel is almost a chore although very much worth the effort.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	RKW7HWOLQJJZI	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shed Some Light on the Darkest Night	Elie Wiesel has written a profound sermon on the holocaust worth the world's contemplation.<br />\\"Night\\" is written as a novel but I have learned it contains many actual events that Wiesel witnessed as a prisoner in camps Birkenau, Auschwitz, and Buchenwald during WWII.  It is vivid and stabbing in its horrible descriptions about the concentration camps. Wiesel writes about babies burning in pits, sons burning their own fathers in cremation ovens and all of the complex choices that the victims of the Holocaust faced. This book is well written, great style, penetrating descriptives and straight to the point. It is definitely not a wasted afternoon spent reading this little book with such a huge impact.<br />I am surprised this book is not required reading in every school. With so much racial profiling still evident in the world we could all benefit from a dose of wisdom written by a man who knows first-hand the outcome of pure hatred. \\"Night\\" will shed a great light on even your darkest day.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R1V06GZ131N4ES	0762409487	392730696	The Writer's Block: 786 Ideas to Jump-Start Your Imagination	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Real Block.....For Writers	This little book is fantastic for those of you stumbling with the ever ready writer's block.<br />Jason Rekulak has provided 786 ideas within this little block to jumpstart your free wheeling imagination. Each page contains something different and friendly to kick your writing into another fresh story idea. Some pages are photographs, others are just inspirational words or statements, still other pages ask you to describe an event or situation you have endured (I feel a memoir coming on), but every page requires the same thing: a committed time frame towards your craft.<br />So fork over a few bucks and enjoy the rewards this little block will bring you year after year. I challenge you to knock your block off!	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R7CGZTYAREGZ4	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Biblical and Almost as Powerful	Steinbeck has managed to carry a biblical idea into the future, taking everyday characters and bringing them to life with ancient tradition while allowing his readers to see the commoness of man through both good and evil doings.<br />Not only is this book biblical in theory but it is biblical in proportion as well at 600 pages it is a testament to Steinbeck that he was able to sustain his idea for such a lengthy saga. I read the book voraciously and finished it within two weeks, a first for someone conducting a busy life. I will be forever haunted by the impressive characters I came to know so intimately in the pages of \\"East of Eden\\". Steinbeck mastered the art of transferring biblical characters into believable modern life, Adam and Eve, Moses, Cain and Abel etc... Steinbeck convinced me that all people hold within themselves a choice between good and evil and he further instilled in me the fact that I have a choice (timshel) to embark on whatever journey my soul so wishes. I once believed that evil stemmed from abuse or neglect but I am better able to realize now that evil sometimes is just inborn. Steinbeck's words make you question your own choices and prepare you to some extent for the outcome of those choices. Although a choice may seem easy today its repercussions can destroy you tomorrow. <br />I am amazed how this novel can actually apply to the modern day accusations about American life as well. I highlighted one paragraph and will refer to it often when I am finding that I have become spoiled by this American way of life, \\"Lee went on, `That's why I include myself. We all have that heritage, no matter what old land our fathers left. All colors and blends of Americans have somewhat the same tendencies. It's a breed-selected out by accident. And so we're overbrave and overfearful-we're kind and cruel as children. We're overfriendly and at the same time frightened of strangers. We boast and are impressed. We're oversentimental and realistic. We are mundaneand materialistic-and do you know of any other nation that acts for ideals? We eat too much. We have no taste, no sense of proportion. We throw our energy about like waste. In the old lands they say of us that we go from barbarism to decadence without intervening culture. Can it be that our critics have not the key or the language of our culture? That's what we are, Cal-all of us. You aren't very different\\" (Pg. 570).  As I search for connection in the world, not just as an American, but also as a human this paragraph says it all. We are a wasteful, ambitious and free nation that tends to exaggerate our excess and ignore our contribution to other nations in this world out of habit and a sense of security. These luxuries are something we have a choice to share or misrepresent. I can only pray that the novel of our lives ends with as much compassion and insight as did Steinbeck's, \\"East of Eden\\".	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R3MHOIHD9DUP9N	0395611504	340715672	Winter: Notes from  Montana	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Cleanse Yourself in Winter	Rick Bass is one of my favorite writers and in my opinion deserves much more attention.<br />This book is a memoir of his first years in Yaak, Montana with his wife Elizabeth. They move from the city to a small cabin in the Montana wilderness. It is a beautifully written tribute to a world no longer in demand where the sound of silence feels too loud. Bass finds out just how little he actually knows, a marvelous experience in humility, once he encounters the harshness of winter. He writes about snow being strong and silent in the same breath. He discovers a new life where he only needs bare essentials to survive and soon finds that all other existence seems superficial. He writes in a style like no other man I have ever read almost poetic but not overdone, and like Walden, he suggests that tremendous value exists in the wilderness away from a roaring crowd.<br />If you love nature and the idea of healing such as that found in solitude this book is for you. Bass writes so wonderfully that your senses are taken along with him on his various wilderness excursions for life's rations. My favorite passage is on page 81, on which he describes a lone male moose, \\"He broke into the smoothest of gallops, a lazy, long legged floating. His wide antlers could have held a tea service without spilling a drop, so smooth and level was his gait.\\" How many men do you know who would think of a tea service and not a loaded gun upon seeing a magnificent male moose? This is where I find Rick Bass so appealing; in all his male machismo he finds the subtle intricacies of art in nature and has the ability to describe it all magically.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	RZO0F4BBP8HP7	1577314352	985822336	A Creative Writer's Kit: A Spirited Companion and Lively Muse for the Writing Life	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A Nice Gift	Judy Reeves has boxed together a book of prompts and practices along with cards that offer advice on the practice of creative writing.<br />This set is a nice gift for anyone who suffers from writer's block or who wants to embark on a career in creative writing. The book offers a year of writing prompts, recommended readings, many quotes from famous writers and several pages of open journal pages that holds all of the inspiration one might receive. The cards offer 25 suggestions for becoming a better writer, from overcoming bad habits to developing new ideas freely.<br />All in all this is a nicely packaged set for a gift to a would-be writer. For serious writers I recommend Reeve's more thorough book on writing, \\"A Writer's Book of Days\\". But any inspiration is good inspiration!	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R214QDR39JB4AG	0312269889	992034516	Notes from the Hyena's Belly: An Ethiopian Boyhood	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Notes That Matter	This book is full of meaning, often insightful and completely unforgettable it is written with candor and wit despite its serious edges.<br />Nega Mezlekia has written a memoir about his boyhood growing up in Ethiopia during the fall of Emperor Selassie. He experiences all of the curious playful things that all boys are reared with yet he also discusses the harshness of the environment during the rise of Junta communism in which thousands of young people were ruthlessly slaughtered. He writes on page 183, \\"Apathy in the face of continual violence is something someone who has never lived through a war cannot understand......People simply gathered about themselves, like rags, what life there was left, deafened and inured to the inevitability of death.\\"  Although Mezlekia has many horrible atrocities to write about this is not all he adheres to. At times this memoir is very witty and I laughed out loud several times imagining some of his shenanigans. His adventures with medicine men and native cures is hilarious as well as his attempt to capture the loose cattle in his village with pepper. <br />I am always impressed with the attitude of Africans who survive the atrocities they have faced in their home countries. Their spirit and survivalist hearts seem to always prevail despite the horrible circumstances they are often forced to endure. Mezlekia managed to escape his country at possibly its worst moments, not without heartache, not without suffering, but with a true gift as a storyteller. I would recommend this memoir to everyone interested in a great true tale but especially to those concerned with the plights of our fellow human beings who suffer so gracefully for their native lands.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R1OK2ZIIUHOH8H	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Definition of Great	F. Scott Fitzgerald accomplished exactly what he set out to do with this novel. He wrote a simple and beautiful tale about sustaining the American dream.<br />Fitzgerald offers us Jay Gatsby the overly confident, charismatic portrait of excess who falls in love with something beyond his reach, Daisy Buchanan.  It is a classic love gone wrong story that embodies itself on the theory that we always want what we cannot have. Once money is added to the calculation the pursuit becomes all the more desperate.<br />This novel is a must read if only for its classic status. It is an easy summer day exploration into the mind of greed, lust and all that it leads to. Fitzgerald managed to write something simple minded with great prose and compassion. But while uncomplicated it is also written with terrific insight questioning the concept of greatness at its very core.	2004-06-22
US	50882938	R1D5ZXPOXHFLKQ	0714834556	702578312	Paris: Portrait of a City	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Paris From Another Perspective	This little book of photos by Matthew Weinreb is perfect to take along for inspiration while visiting Paris. <br />Matthew Weinreb takes extraordinary photographs of the beautiful city of Paris from many different perspectives and angles. He allows the city of Paris to come alive and show off all of the little intricate details that make this city so mesmerizing. The Eiffel looks like lace, Notre Dame becomes a sanctuary of light, doors to Parisian buildings become entrances of art, towers, stain glass, bridges and domes become perfect masterpieces. <br />If you have ever been to Paris this book will transport you back in time with beautiful memories or it will inspire you to visit the city in order to find your own inspirational moments. Weinreb will certainly aid in rousing a better view of this city of light. His photographs will romance you and might even convince you to take a few of your own in a different light, changing forever your future scrapbooks.	2004-06-21
US	50882938	RZ88FID9T2HED	0385489498	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Read It and Weep	I began reading this wonderful biography of Marie Antoinette while planning a trip to France and although the book is long, and at times rather tedious, it did not dissapoint my intrigue with this historically tragic figure.<br />Antonia Fraser has written what seems to be about as accurate a biography as possible. Many horrible stories have been told about Marie Antoinette and this book covers those as well as many more that I never knew. Like most people my introduction to Marie Antoinette was with her &quot;Let them eat cake...&quot; speech and her over-extravagant life style. It seemed almost understandable that she was beheaded based on such misrepresentation. In reality the story reads much more tragically once you get to know a bit about her life and how it all ended.<br />Imagine being a precocious but innocent young girl raised up like property to be sold to the highest royal bidder. Then at 14 being sent away from your friends and family to become the wife of another royal child. Marie Antoinette left Austria and had to adapt to becomming a future queen of France within only a few short years. The French, during those times, being notoriously inclined to think of Austrian women as unflattering and unfeminine oafs. But young Marie pulled it all off and successfully became the star of France. Her husband Louis XVI was more interested in hunting and gadgets than creating a future French dynasty with Marie. So it isn't a wonder that she fills up her life with all the riches of royality. Her life is a sad saga from beginning to end despite her royality and wealth. The final chapters of this book are unimaginable to fathom. She is taken from her family once again, thrown in a small cell, stripped of any royal privileges and left to contemplate her own demise. <br />Imagine becomming all you never dreamed of, hearing the crowd cheer the beheading of your husband, listening to the coerced testimony of your only son stating the abuses he suffered by your own hands,seeing the head of your friend paraded on a stake past your cell window, hemorrhaging from stress and exhaustion and then having to walk up a platform towards your death with a roaring crowd surrounding you.....few of us could stand it, but Marie Antoinette did. Her story is a great read but in order to get Marie's true essence one must walk the halls of Versailles and then sit in contemplation near her cell in the La Conciergerie.....this extraordinarily strong woman lives on in infamy and her spirit reigns supreme.	2004-06-21
US	50882938	R3P8FBVDICXWET	0802774709	847003179	Permanent Parisians: An Illustrated Guide to the Cemeteries of Paris	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Permanent Guide to Perished Parisians	Paris has what must be the most beautifully peaceful cemeteries in all the world. Each tombstone becomes a extraordinary tribute to a life well lived. This guide book provides maps, some photographs and interesting biographical clips about a few of the permanent residents of Paris. The book gives directions to graves of such well known Parisians as Marcel Proust, Emile Zola, Isadora Duncan, Oscar Wilde, Alexander Dumas, Gertrude Stein just to name a few. Walking tours are provided for Pere Lachaise, The Pantheon, St. Etienne-du-Mont, Montmartre, St. Vincent, Les Invalides, Passy, St. Germain-des-Pres, The Catacombs, Montparnasse, La Chapelle Expiatoire, St. Denis and a few others.<br />After taking this guide with me on a trip to Paris I was able to find every grave I searched for with ease and an understanding of exactly what made these permanent Parisians so interesting. Pere Lachaise is overwhelming in scale but probably the most popular cemeterie in Paris. The Pantheon holds scientists and philosophers. Les Invalides proudly holds the remains of a little man named Napoleon with a great big history. The Catacombs are spookily interesting. Montparnasse has many tombstones that could be sculptures standing in the best art houses of Paris. My favorite cemeterie in all of Paris is Passy, a peaceful, quaint refuge underneath the Eiffel Tower, where birds are chirping and old graves lay covered in simple coats of moss and chipped iron, you can almost feel the restful sleep of those who reside within its walls.	2004-06-21
US	50882938	R2YL3J2S5GZFQI	0446526126	104860293	Ten Things I Wish I'd Known - Before I Went Out into the Real World	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wise Wisdom for the Real World	I admire Maria Shriver for what she has accomplished in life without the constant help of the silver spoon she was born with. She is an amazing woman in her own right and has worked hard to become a person of great integrity and wisdom. So who better to write a book on life lessons than someone who has learned a few along the way. <br />Ms. Shriver wrote this book after she received so much positive response from a little commencement address she had given. I only wish I had heard such a profound speech before I had set off into the world. After reading this book I realize I only do part of the necessary steps for life success and I am now inspired to work my way into all 10. She recommends: Finding your passion, take any job as a stepping stone, respect your coworkers, be responsible for your behaviors, fail without fear, discard the myth of Superwoman, pay attention to your family life, work on your marriage, make your own money and LAUGH!! It takes alot of energy to live life correctly so be prepared and reach for this little book of wisdom for inspiration.	2004-06-08
US	50882938	RG1SOTVJX8IP1	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Must If You Love Paris	This book is a wonderful memoir of a New York family that moves to Paris for a period of 5 years with a young son in tow.<br />Adam Gopnik writes this book in a style of short stories or essays that weave into one great book. He offers a well thought out idea of what must be said from an American in Paris. His comparisons are very real, some light-hearted, some blatantly profound. Gopnik shows his vulnerability many times as a fish out of water, but he tries harder than the average American to blend into his surroundings and take on some of the easier characteristics of becomming French like developing a fondness for a life of profound beauty, a taste for well prepared food, relaxing into the dining experience of the cafes and brasseries, showing his son the art of the carousel rather than the brainlessness of &quot;Barney&quot;, and eventually creating another child born a Parisian. <br />The best chapters in this book are the ones that Gopnik writes about his son discovering himself in Paris. His favorite food becomes croissants rather than ketchup fast food burgers, his puppy love with a young French girl in the Ritz pool, how he would rather play at the Luxembourg Gardens than with a television and most importantly how he adapts to becomming a childish little Frenchman. With this said the one chapter I would skip is &quot;The Rookie&quot; a portion in the book that somehow just dosen't fit. From the elegance of the French life back to the world of baseball? Personally I would have just left the entire chapter with an editor and walked away.<br />Gopnik shows how well he has adapted to French life in the portions of the book that he dedicates to the cafe Balzar. This cafe becomes the victim of a corporate buyout and is almost lost until a band of dining brothers glue themselves together and form a secure fortress in pure French flair to save the cafe in its original form, garcons and all! It is an interesting look at how easy and yet how complicated life can be in Paris, all that French discussion can lead to something good.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves Paris and craves a walk down its Rues. Gopnik makes little things seem absolutely important and accurately describes all of the large and small nuances between the French and Americans. His wife, Martha, says it best, &quot;We have a beautiful existence in Paris, but not a full life, and in New York we have a full life and an unbeautiful existence.&quot; This must be why Paris remains in the minds of most Americans who walk along its streets but slowly find themselves returning home, to the rush and bustle of America with an over-inflated heart.	2004-06-07
US	50882938	R1DYK7DWK5NYYK	1569245134	747987059	Party of One: The Loners' Manifesto	Books	5	190	196	N	N	Read it Alone and Rejoice!	Finally an answer to a loner's prayers! We are not as strange as the world wants to make us out to be afterall.<br />Anneli Rufus has done a magnificent job telling about life from a loner's perspective and making it all sound capable and NORMAL. She writes chapters on the loner in community, popular culture, films, advertising, friendships, love & sex, technology, art, literature, religion, sanity, crime, eccentricity, clothes, environment, solo adventures and at last childhood. The words are a true manifesto for a loner's hungry soul, finally another person who understands.<br />In a world where loners are thought to be strange, crazy serial killers who cannot conform to society, Rufus encourages the idea that most loners in truth are the great creators and contemplators of the world. Issac Newton, Michaelangelo, writers, artists and philosophers become necessary human beings within all of their secretiveness. Instead of being arrogant attention getting hounds most loners create from the heart and give without a need for recognition, the truly unselfish can be found only in those selfish enough to enjoy being alone. <br />I would have loved to have given this book to a teacher who I had as a child. I remember sitting in a room with my parents while they were told by the \\"teacher\\" that she felt I was somehow autistic and withdrawn and might need \\"special\\" education. Despite my A's, my ability to pay attention and my athletic ability I was labeled and marked as a failure in her eyes. I wonder how many children today are pegged as something they are not and guided in a wrong direction. It took me 40 years to figure out how unique and completely normal I really am but I would hope after reading this book many others could celebrate the adventure alot sooner. A must read for those of you with quiet, withdrawn children who would rather day dream than stand around with all the other cattle.	2004-06-02
US	50882938	R2J6BW7JFX4GK	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Toned Down Bestseller	I am not a person who normally reads the raving bestsellers, mostly because I have been disappointed in the past when I do read them. &quot;The Lovely Bones&quot; was described to be out of the ordinary and received such outlandish praise that I jumped aboard the fan wagon.<br />Alice Sebold is a &quot;lovely&quot; writer and worth reading, her subject matter is unfortunately real and she approaches &quot;The Lovely Bones&quot; from an interesting point of view....that of a girl recently raped and murdered and telling her saga from heaven. Thankfully this novel is not another slapped together version of something that gets written about over and over again. This novel broke through! However I do feel it was rather tame and toned down to meet the masses as most &quot;bestsellers&quot; are. <br />&quot;The Lovely Bones&quot; is an easy read despite the horrible character delimma. It is gripping and well written but not unforgettable. I almost wish this novel had been allowed to stand on its own and not become an over-edited version of itself. But then maybe this subject matter needs to be presented to wider audiences and discussed in detail so that the impact of child kidnap and molestation becomes a &quot;bestseller&quot; as a cause.	2004-06-02
US	50882938	R2153PRPCC5T7X	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Original and Different, Not Just Babble!!	I bought this book because I thought the title was interesting. After reading it it all made perfect sense.<br />&quot;The Dogs of Babel&quot; is a unique story about a man who attempts to solve the mystery of his wife's death through the knowledge of his dog. Although the story is far-fetched it is appealing simply for the originality behind the plot. But the story is also sometimes too predicitable as well. How a linguist professor happens to own a dog who is smart enough to be the first talking dog....life isn't that easy. The dog story is entertaining if you like dogs and it sure will make you look at your dog a bit differently at the same time. I didn't like the animal abuse but I suppose if there ever was a real talking dog and scientists got ahold of it, &quot;real&quot; dogs would probably no longer exist. So not only do the dogs &quot;babble&quot; they also represent the story of Babel by attempting to cross communication gaps between species, in the Bible it was between tribes. <br />So curl up with your favorite pooch and start your own babble for what it's worth. A nice read and something different for a change.	2004-06-02
US	50882938	R271O84VFS6NZQ	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Memoir or Just A Bunch of Memories?	After returning from a trip to Paris I decided to read this memoir by Hemingway because I heard he loved Paris as much as I. I have to say I imagined a beautifully descriptive book filled with telling prose and wonderful scenes of Paris. I love the way Hemingway writes but this book disappointed me. It may be that it was published after his death and slapped together without his perfectionistic control.     \\"A Moveable Feast\\" is an interesting read, simple even. If you know Paris you can even walk with Hemmingway along the Rues and conjure up a few old cafes that are still in business. If you are a writer it is nice to imagine yourself as the poor and struggling Hemmingway bent on a dream. But the stories are really nothing more than gossip about other writers and reknown figures such as, Fitzgerald, Stein, James, Pound and others flocking through Paris in the 1920's. I was hoping for more. The only paragraph I paid much attention to because of its \\"Hemingway\\" quality read like this, \\"They say the seeds of what we will do are in all of us, but it seemed to me that in those who make jokes in life the seeds are covered with better soil and with a higher grade of manure.\\" Gems like this can be found but unfortuneately not often. Paris and Hemingway are both such profound enigmas that I expected a gourmet feast not just a trip to Denny's!	2004-05-31
US	50882938	R1J1M4Z4U37D93	0618526412	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	3	19	19	N	N	A Lonely Hunter Resides In Us All	Carson McCullers has written a beautiful book about the Depression Era with tragic yet deep rooted characters who pull at your heart strings.<br />Every character in this book is written with compassion and understanding. They all possess a desire for something and they are all led away from exactly what they desire because of poverty, growth, transitions, death, prejudice and/or responsibilities. Your heart will hunt along with them all for that one moment that &quot;it&quot; all comes together. But like most lives the thing that we most want is often in the way of real life and one must make choices often leaving the dreams and desires of our heart behind. <br />I liked this book because of the depth of the characters and the descriptiveness with which McCullers writes. However I felt it was a bit too long and didn't really wrap things up completely at the end. I would recommend the book purely for the message it contains....stay true to your dreams and stay hungry for life even if you are lonely, the best company is often in your own heart.	2004-05-31
US	50882938	R1W0N9O12CICCF	055338015X	614147121	Fifty Acres and a Poodle: A Story of Love, Livestock, and Finding Myself on a Farm	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Farm Life From a City Perspective	Having recently bought a farm in the country I had to read this memoir in order to prepare for what I had gotten myself into.<br />Laskas writes with humor and reality about uprooting herself and her city man to the country. Many stories are humorous like mule buying, tractor trading, weed wacking, and the concept of a fancy French poodle who gets car sick becomming a country dog. Sadly some stories are tragic like when Laskas loses her loyal pet cat and when her neighbor battles cancer. Good and bad all part of real life and written well. So sit back and enjoy your work has only just begun!	2004-05-28
US	50882938	RL2N76BK21SU	0312318685	855890548	Waiting for Gertrude: A Graveyard Gothic	Books	3	10	11	N	N	An Intelllectual Fantasy	I picked up this book after having visited the graveyards of Paris and falling in love with the artful serenity they exude. <br />At times witty, charming and even historical this little story takes a visit to a French graveyard into a whole other world. Famous people who reside in death at the Pere-Lachaise Cimetiere in Paris are finding theselves reincarnated into stray cats. Bill Richardson is loyal to the original historical figures and allows all their known eccentricities to remain alive within the cats. Alice B. Tolkas pines away for the return of her beloved Gertrude Stein, Jim Morrison is a swaggering sexy tomcat, Fontaine describes the cats with great poetic harmonies, Oscar Wilde falls in love with Morrison, Isadora Duncan still dances in the moonlight with ribbons, Colette still exudes desire, Maria Callas is still quite the diva, Sarah Bernhardt the consummate actress, and Proust becomes a reculsive private eye, just to name a few. <br />I rated this book with only 3 stars because it is a bit complex to read. The style is chaotic, bouncing around from letter, to narration, to poetry and more letters. The writing is littered with uncommon words that leave you feeling ignorant if you don't take the time to look them up. The characters are complex, of course they should be, and halfway through the book I stopped to refresh my memory on who was who before continuing on. I recommend a quickie refresher course on interesting French figures before beginning to read this story only because it allows you to grasp all the subtle nuances as you go along. All in all a GREAT idea had it been toned down to the masses but a superb book for literary snobs and the French aficionado. My favorite conversation in the book is between Oscar Wilde and Alice B. Tolkas (as cats), \\"Never disparage a surface. Nothing recommends beauty more than superficiality. Real beauty walks through the world uncluttered and unmasked. It dosen't hide in the earth like a truffle, attendant on the tender mercies of a passing pig.\\" Bravo, Bill Richardson for awakening the dead!!	2004-05-27
US	50882938	R11TMZXY7FH25F	140003180X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 4)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Another Little Gem	This is the fourth installment in the #1 Ladies Detective Agency series and once again Mr. Smith gives us a dose of African pleasure.<br />Precious Ramotswe finds a cure for her fiance Mr. J.L.B. Maketoni's depression and they are back on track. Her assistant Mma Makutsi starts her own typing class for men and falls in love. We get to know the apprentist mechanics a bit better and meet a few more interesting characters in search of mystery solutions from the detective agency. A few scenes are laugh out loud funny. Another enjoyable and easy read from Alexander McCall Smith.<br />I rated this book one star less than the others in this series because of the fact that I felt portions of this book were repeats of the prior ones. I wish that author's who write a series would just allow the books to stand on their own without feeling the need to explain over and over again who and what the characters are. If a reader picks up the fourth book in a series without reading the first three.....isn't that the readers problem. I would have prefered more character's searching for answers than answers to questions that were already provided.	2004-05-25
US	50882938	RLYF7B46ZO3SD	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More From Precious Ramotswe	As the third in the No. 1 Ladies Detective series, &quot;Morality for Beautiful Girls,&quot; continues along the same line as the first two books.<br />Precious Ramotswe finds herself involved in a case for a &quot;government&quot; man and spends most of the book away from those that she adores. Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni leaves his repair shop for a stint at the orphange to cure his depression. Mma Ramotswe's assistant is promoted to Asst. Mgr of the repair shop and takes on a case for the detective agency that leads her to discover the truth about beauty. All wrapped up at the end another moral lesson is learned from these wonderful characters.<br />Alexander McCall Smith remains true to his original character concepts and deepens the readers understanding as to what makes them tick. He tells us another fable with a good moral to live by and leads us onto the next in the series. These books are easy, fun reads that blend light mystery with good judgement and relate an excellent lesson. I am looking forward to the next journey of Mma Ramotswe and her gang.	2004-05-21
US	50882938	R2STA2VILY045G	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Gripping and Terrifying!!	I read this book prior to watching the movie version and it prepared me for a gruesome ride.<br />While the writing is basic at best, the horror and mystery is spellbinding. Hannibal Lecter will send chills up your spine for days and many nights! But amazingly he grows on you as a sickeningly likable character. Clarice Starling, the tough yet fragile FBI agent, pursues a murderer and with the help of Hannibal Lecter faces her true fears. Somehow they develop a relationship that makes sense....But how does madness make sense? That must be Thomas Harris's secret!	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R2MM2IB7NKE3MU	0767900383	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fall in Love With Tuscany	Frances Mayes has written a beautiful memoir about her home in Tuscany. Along with Mayes you experience all of the crazy unsettling ups and downs of purchasing a home abroad and attempting to renovate it on American time. <br />Both humerous and faithful to Tuscan life this book inspires new life, new dreams and new hope even in the deadest of hearts. Mayes will leave you hungry physically and emotionally for a life well lived. She introduces characters who adapt to the whims of an American woman with no idea of how Tuscan life really works until she becomes absorbed in her new life and home. <br />The book is FAR better than the movie and the recipes included will leave your taste buds in heaven. I recommend fresh air, a sip of Tuscan wine, good cheese, olive oil, and a dinner of sage and butter pasta and I believe you will melt into this book like I did.	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R1I0BG22JN9D4	0345450000	369762528	Ruffian: Burning from the Start	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Reality for Racehorses	As a Thoroughbred owner I have been facinated by the racing world and all of its stars from Man O' War to our newest star Smarty Jones. But I have to say Ruffian is my all time sentimental favorite.<br />I can remember watching the match race between Ruffian and the colt Foolish Pleasure. It was a time for women's lib and Billie Jean King vs. Bobby Riggs. I always wanted the girls to win!! But tragically Ruffian paid the price in front of our own eyes. I can remember crying for weeks after watching her beautiful black body fall. My heart was broken for years!<br />This book is truly a magnificent tribute to one of racing's greatest heros, a big black filly named Ruffian. It reads much more emotionally than other tribute books currently on the market and will stay with you for years. Reading about Ruffian's will to keep running even with two broken legs will rip your heart out! Make sure you buy some stock in Kleenex before you begin this emotional memoir.	2004-05-19
US	50882938	RXATLM79OM51F	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Looking for Spiritual Guidance, Here It Is!	I have heard of &quot;The Alchemist&quot; for years but I suppose I wasn't ready for its message until recently.<br />I honestly feel this book should be required reading for all people. Coelho has an amazing way of writing fiction with a theory about reality, and it works. He gives us the tale of a young boy disenchanted with his life who decides he must search the world for an answer to the hole in his heart. We are taken on a journey from Spain to Egypt with young Santaigo. Along the way we, like Santaigo, keep thinking that we have found life's answers but in the end we discover we had the answers all along. This is a profound discovery for some and a comforting redirection for others.<br />Paulo Coehlo writes with such a depth that I found myself taking quotes on almost every page for future inspiration on how to run my life. With all of the global issues taking place in the world today I was floored by the following quote, &quot;No matter what he does, every person on earth plays a central role in the history of the world. And normally he dosen't know it.&quot; In one paragraph Coehlo offers the answer. If we all felt so important we wouldn't need unnecessary attention would we? And maybe, just maybe the world would start to change.<br />The most important message to take from this wonderful time honored tale is this, &quot;Where your treasure is, there also will be your heart.&quot; Enough said!	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R2VDKYXFF74UYM	0380815923	418329284	Blackberry Wine: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Sip Some Wine and Relax	This is the second book I have read by Joanne Harris and although it is different from the first I still enjoyed the experience and highly recommend the journey.<br />The story is fairly predictable, a frustrated writer escapes to France and finds himself drawn to a beautiful but reclusive neighbor. Yes, typical romance.....but alas so much more! Harris writes so beautifully that she draws you into the surroundings and your heart leaves your body and enters a quaint French village while being entertained by all sorts of quirky characters. <br />I would recommend a good bottle of wine, some cheese and a long lazy afternoon to read this enchanting novel. But get ready to book a flight to France once its over. Harris is such a sensual writer that you will be unfulfilled until you experience all of the tastes, sounds, scents and pleasures of France along with her characters. I am convinced about both France and Harris.	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R1LNE9PY1VQ4J	0375758453	535618685	Without Reservations: The Travels of an Independent Woman	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Inspirational Woman of Independence and Adventure	I purchased &quot;Without Reservations&quot; after returning home from a quick trip to Europe. You see I had left my heart there and I needed a quick fix while pining away at home waiting for yet another friend to venture out and dare get a passport.<br />Alice Steinbach writes with a capturing style about her adventures abroad (England, Paris, Italy etc..) all alone. For once a woman who believes in experience over fear! She is a mother, divorced, successful and still desiring a fulfilling life. I admire her spirit and enthusiasm for life. While capturing her inner fears she relies on her wit and knowledge to overcome what would leave most of us sitting at home cowering in a corner. <br />Ms. Steinbach meets interesting people along the way, a fashionable older woman in Paris, a Japanese man who shares her love of Monet, a young student eager to grow and many others. She inspires one to want to reach out and learn something from the others around us, not for gossip, but for true wealth of character. I believe after reading this book I will no longer seek the security of familar travel partners but instead search for a lesser known commodity, me, a suitcase, a destination and a dream! Sounds exciting to me!	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R1P7K8SE5PKX8X	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Cross Those Old Southern Boundaries	&quot;The Secret Life of Bees&quot; is one of those books that got so much hype and presentation that I almost didn't bother to read it....I usually don't find bestsellers very appealing. However I kept running across the book and decided to give it a try.<br />I LOVED this book. Sue Monk Kidd writes beautifully about a young white girl in search of her own mystery. She finds her answers in a unique and forbidden place, the home of Black Madonnas and bees. I imagine Jim Crow is rolling over in his grave about now! A perfect book for our times crossing racial divides and knocking them into dust. Love and respect can conquer all.<br />I was very impressed with the way Kidd involves bees as their own character within the book. I learned something I never knew about honey, not just that it is sweet, but that it can also be considered medicinal. The story is woven together by the bees and their glorious honey in a way that keeps you reading until the very end. You will never look at bees or race in quite the same way.	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R111T6DR99UYLJ	0142437182	822706087	Siddhartha (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Humanity Needs This Book	I would have never read this book had it not been for the advice from someone I admire greatly. It was highly recommended as a spiritual experience....so I tried it.<br />With all of the emphasis placed on religion today I found this book to inspire not religious practice but true inner peace and spiritual values comparable to many religious texts. This book has something to say and if you get it the message will follow you forever, yes it has that much impact on an open heart.<br />The story revolves around an Indian youth named Siddhartha, who with a restless heart and many questions attempts to experience the world before making a commitment to tradition. He struggles with the ties of family values and the pull of an unknown world. So he takes a plunge and leaves his security nest to find what life is all about. He works, he strives, he succeeds, he finds wealth, love and humanity but in the end all he really needs is peace of mind and freedom to choose his own path. Sounds achingly familiar to us all dosen't it?<br />I highly recommend you experience this book, for the beauty, the bravery and the freedom of choice. It will remain a part of your soul if you let it!	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R29APBVJSWBGF4	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fantastic!!!	I watched the movie &quot;Chocolat&quot; a year or so ago and found myself amazed at the sensuality of this little story. So I decided to read the book although I felt I knew the story.<br />Joanne Harris is a brilliant story teller with such admiration for the senses that she pulls her readers into a land of sensory overload where you want to reside forever. The book is different than the movie (isn't this always the case?) but just as entertaining. The delicate prose and romantic verse keep you interested until the very end and then for days and days afterwards. I dare you to read this tale and not find yourself sipping wine and cocoa while being tempted by all the chocolate. France will be calling your name!	2004-05-19
US	50882938	R2G3YK2MMBHTKV	0374128715	689175313	The Confessions of Max Tivoli (Today Show Book Club #22)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Difficult But Stunning	I picked up this book knowing it would be different and initally I found it to be very difficult to keep up with. I found it confusing to try and figure out at what age and time the writer was dealing with. But once I figured out the writer's style and marvelled at his brilliance and individuality I found myself caught up completely in this little tale about Max Tivoli.<br />Andrew Sean Greer has written a book that is profound and very much in its own class. He writes with great prose and many phrases read like poetry, causing one to pause and treasure the thought. I applaud Mr. Greer for writing unlike any other and being brave enough to stick his neck out to reap the rewards. <br />You will fall in love with Max Tivoli, pain in his lonliness and ache for someone to love him. It is such an interesting concept to start from the end, to be old when you are young and young when you are old. Maybe we should all try a bit of his wisdom. Max reminds me of an old soul reincarnated into a young child and hindered by all the handicaps of youth and then slowed once again by the horrors of aging just when exuberance is at its most inspirational. It brings new meaning to deja-vu'!! While Max brings such sadness it is a wonderful thing to feel emotion just from the simplicity of reading. I wish more books were written with such warmth and heart.	2004-05-18
US	50882938	R1BRNE8GETVWVW	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Another Installment of Joy	After reading Alexander McCall Smith's first book in this series &quot;The #1 Ladies Detective Agency&quot; I felt I had to read the following books as well because they are so enjoyable.<br />&quot;The Tears of the Giraffe&quot; reads almost like a fable allowing us to determine whether or not lying for good or bad reasons can be wrong. It is an interesting delimma. I absolutely enjoy the way that Smith writes his characers. Precious Ramotswe, her secretary/assistant Mma Makutsi and her fiance Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni are immediately likable and often shyly funny in the way that they interact with one another. This book brings two orphan children into Mma Ramotswe's life and leaves a door open for the next installment. <br />The ending of the book is left with a wonderful fable-like suggestion about baskets being woven from the tears of a giraffe because that is all they have to give us. We can all give something no matter how small or insignificant it may seem and Alexander McCall Smith has given us a true treasure here.	2004-05-18
US	50882938	R709PCKDJM6KV	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Watch Out Ms. Christie	I found this book enchanting. Mma Ramotswe is both likable and hilarious as the lead character running her own detective agency in Botswana. She encounters many interesting sorts and solves their mysteries along the way. <br />Alexander McCall writes with an easy style that encourages his readers to read a little longer. His chapters could easily be a short story within themselves. I was so wrapped up in his book that I read it in two days and am currently on to the next in his series about Mma Ramotswe. I see a movie in the future!!	2004-05-16
US	50882938	R38WFWTM2CWUDS	0142003662	90247950	Island of Blood: Frontline Reports from Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, and Other South Asian Flashpoints	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Brave and Informative Read	I picked up this book not realizing the impact it contained. Anita Pratap is a journalist who relentlessly pursues her stories throughout war torn areas. As a woman she is inspirational and as a fact finder a bull-dog who gets her story done. She writes with great impact telling horror stories but still managing to find a fleck of beauty that emerges in her own life from the experience.<br />Pratap writes about dowry killings, Taliban rule and abuse, tribal wars and atrocites, class prejudices, poor people and abused children in areas like Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and India. These stories are courageous and bold and horribly real at the same time. Your heart will ache for the families that witness the horror of war killings and the pain of losing all that they own. This book will make you re-think your idea of sadness.	2004-05-10
US	50882938	R2BWANAAXL1OGI	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fabulous!!	I read this book after I had travelled to Paris and experienced a small part of French culture. After I read it I wish I would have gone to Provence.<br />Peter Mayle's memoir of relocating to Provence from England is laugh out loud funny. Like many of us Mr. Mayle fumbles about as he learns new things and manages to entertain his readers with his follies. So sit back with a glass of wine, cheese and a comfortable chair and enjoy!	2004-05-09
US	50882938	R3FZXMSG22A7EC	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Ordeal....But Worth It	I decided to read The Known World because I was told it was written with a very informative look towards slavery and offered many ideas not often covered in depth. <br />Unfortunately undertaking the reading of this book started for me with difficulty. I could not grasp the author's writing style and I almost gave up several times in dissapointment. But thankfully I read on and towards the last 100 pages finally got involved. With so many characters to keep track of it would have helped to take notes in the beginning, especially since the author jumps about from time, character and place so often. The author's writing style distracted me from involvement with his characters until the end of the book.<br />But most importantly I learned something new. The Known World expanded my own. Not only did I learn about other sides of slavery, I also learned how to read outside the norm and found myself involved in a facinating read.	2004-05-09
US	50882938	RJ910WV08FCQP	0743262174	59017278	Cry, the Beloved Country	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pure Poetry	I saw the movie made from this book first and I thought nothing could top the beauty of the film. I was wrong, as usual the book is always better than the movie.<br />Alan Paton writes with extrodinary beauty making each sentence into a poetic phrase worth a second glance. He has written a story about racism, prejudice and forgiveness, ideas not often mentioned or acted together. Paton draws his reader into the beauty and magnificence of South Africa without the benefit of pictures, but your mind fills with splendor anyway. The lesson Paton provides is beautiful, to accept others, to betray society's prejudices and to die with a clean and pure heart.	2004-05-09
US	50882938	R3CA2HNS7IO4G	0415930634	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Must Read Regarding Our Future &amp; Our Past	Peterson has written an excellent report on the atrocities that have taken place under our eyes in Africa. Most Americans know about Somalia from &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; but Peterson reports from a different perspective and brings new light to an old meaning. He reports on what both the UN and the US did wrong while on a &quot;peace mission.&quot; I would have hoped we would have learned our lesson but some aspects Peterson describes ring much too true for our involvement in Iraq as well.<br />The most horrifying account that Peterson writes so vividly about is the genocide in Rwanda. How does a world ignore such atrocity? I cried often during the reading of this section. I can't imagine how any country could ignore the pleading of such a dying nation in such a beautiful part of the world. To read about a man living in a wall for months to avoid being murdered, a child hiding under her parents while they were hacked to death, and see pictures of streets lined with death is beyond understandable. This is where our billions in defense should have gone! <br />I believe this book to be a must read for all humanity. From each horrible account something is learned. Africa is a beautiful country on the verge of catastrophe while the rest of the world ignores its pleas. From such anger, bitterness and hate comes furure generations of the same unless the world steps up with bravery and defends a peaceful solution. A billion dollars of understanding would go alot further in this country than the others we chose to toy with. Peterson has brought the injustices to life masterfully. This book NEEDS to be read by anyone who cares about a global existence and our future.	2004-05-08
US	50882938	R22IFAEOQZW0PM	0767905938	872531980	A Year by the Sea: Thoughts of an Unfinished Woman	Books	5	5	8	N	N	I Wish I Could Do This!	Joan Anderson has written a really lovely book of independence strength and fulfillment during a crucial period in a woman's life- and it's all true! I would love to be free myself of the constraints that men often put upon us as women and spend time alone to ponder on life and where I am headed, so this book was right up my ally. I think I would have stayed on my own unlike Joan however the sea and the seals all sounded so peaceful and beautiful to wake up to every day!! I highly recommend this book to women struggling for survival amongst the demands of family.	2001-07-04
US	50882938	RAWI7FLP3UCS	0395926181	464026386	Colter: The True Story of the Best Dog I Ever Had	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Written with Great Emotion!!	This book is now one of my favorite all time reads! Rick Bass did an excellent job of bringing his readers into his world in Yaak, Montana- you can actually vision the beauty of the environment though his words. He makes bird hunting seem mysterious, romantic, beautiful and honest- nothing I would have thought I would feel. I read the book because it was about a dog but I finished it with so much MORE!! Beautiful verses with depth and emotion throughout- you will cry and you will laugh. I was actually sad I had finished this book, it's been with me ever since. I ran out and bought Rick Bass's other books today!!	2001-06-26
