US	50889792	R2U6IREUVYRL9T	0812005473	622560115	201 Arabic Verbs (201 Verbs Series)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Could be better but	There isn't another commonly available resource of this type that I know of and I have found it very useful. You don't get very far into Arabic before you learn the joys that are the hollow verb (those with a long vowel in the middle) and the defective verb (those that end with ya or alif maqsura) not to mention the shuffling short vowels between present and past tense. My textbook (Ahlan wa Sahlan) conjugates only a small representative few in the index so I really needed a reference such as this. <br /> <br />As you can guess from the title, this book takes 201 verbs and conjugates them in Active and Passive voice (where relevant) giving these forms: <br /> <br />1.) Past <br />2.) Present <br />3.) Subjunctive <br />4.) Jussive <br /> <br />As well as providing the imperative, active and passive participles, and the root-very handy for beginners dealing with quadriliteral verbs. Each verb is provided along with a brief definition. No, it's not as thorough as a dictionary but that's what Al-Mawrid is for, right?  <br /> <br />I liked the selection of verbs (I was very happy to see that the verb for \\"to see\\" was included), the index that listed the type of verbs (e.g. verbs with initial hamza, verbs with final waw, etc.) and the printface is legible and of decent size. Compare with the Hans Wehr budget print dictionary and you'll appreciate how nice this is. They also clearly provide all short vowel markers which aren't always in dictionaries. <br /> <br />The biggest complaint is, as other users have stated, there is no index of the specific verbs provided as examples. As I've looked them up, I've started just writing them in the index but this is messy. I'd also think some brief explication on how to create passive, subjunctive, etc. would be a good addition but perhaps that is beyond the intended scope. <br /> <br />If you have a particular verb type that really confuses you-defective verbs give me fits-then this reference will definitely be helpful.	2005-06-08
US	50889792	RDPTTU50JD8DR	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfection	Connie Willis is simply one of the finest contemporary SF writers and here is the proof. I bought this book on a whim after reading the cover blurb. It's become one of my favorites.<br />The idea of time travel is a real warhorse in SF and often yields interesting results. I liked the premise of making the travellers history students; the added attraction was making the period under surveillance the Plague Years of medieval Europe. This may ring your deja-vu bell by now but Willis tackled this issue before and far better than Michael Crichton (Timeline, for those who aren't Crichton fans, covered similiar territory.) <br />The story involves the journey of Kivrin, an Oxford student of British history in the mid 21st century. Due to some complicated coincidences between past and present, her time travel goes off course and she lands in England 100 or so years earlier than planned at the height of the plague. Meanwhile, a mysterious illness is wreaking havoc on modern-day England which complicates rescue efforts. Kivrin is cut off from the present and attempts to save her host family and village with what modern medical knowledge she possesses and the aide of the village priest. <br />I expected an adventure tale and I got it but the real gift of Willis' writing is the incredible pathos she inspires toward her subjects. The story moves quickly and expertly between the present and the past and never loses steam. What I most enjoyed was the transition in Kivrin's mind from her subjects being abstracts (&quot;contemps&quot;) to real people who love and strive and suffer. The realization is one the best historians must of necessity arrive at but most of us rarely contemplate when sitting in the comfort of a classroom or armchair. I can't look at the study of history quite the same after reading this book and any work of art that permanently alters your perception of life is worth pointing out to others.<br />All of Willis' work is excellent and should be sought out. For her lighter side, check out her short story collection &quot;Impossible Things.&quot;	2004-07-07
US	50889792	R1058RRL8GOX9D	080524137X	500003640	Choosing a Jewish Life: A Handbook for People Converting to Judaism and for Their Family and Friends	Books	4	15	16	N	N	For those considering	My Rabbi recommended this book when I approached him about conversion and I have no doubt it is on many such lists. Judaism has for centuries been reticent about seeking converts due to Christian persecution but still there have always been those who sought the religion out. The result however is how few resources are available to the convert so Diamant's book is really essential for those considering or committed to the path.<br />Diamant is a born Jew married to a converted Jew. Many will be familiar with her from her fiction work, The Red Tent. She displays great sensitivity to the convert and addresses such potential concerns of the Jew-by-choice such as how to inform with parents and family of your decision, Christmas, conversion rituals, standoffishness from born Jews (her quotes from the Talmud about converts were particularly inspiring to me.) The reading is less dry than some other similiar books assigned by my (wonderful) Rabbi and she makes the best work she can of the subject. Still I'd only recommend this for individuals considering conversion or for those close to someone who is. This is a great resource but not the best jumping off point for someone seeking more information about Judaism in general.<br />Good luck with your search wherever it leads you. Aleikhem shalom.	2004-07-05
US	50889792	R31UP94DAU19BZ	0399138676	629886032	Hardball: A Season in the Projects	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Worth the search	This book is such a great find. Unlike the movie, this is the non-fiction account of a group of volunteer's attempts to organize a little league team in Chigago's Cabrini Green project, possibly the most infamous in the country. Don't expect any Keanu Reeves ex-gambler coaches to show up. Do expect great candor from the kids and an unmistakable affection from the author (who never appears in the book) for the players. Despite all the news stories you'll ever hear about urban decay, public housing and gang violence, it will never have the impact that some of these stories do (3 players lose their fathers during the season, one's is incarcerated, others can identify a gun's calibre by sound.) This story isn't unremittingly grim though and never is it preachy. Coyle's gift is to just let the children and the coaches speak as the story of the Kikuyus journey to the championships unfolds. There are so many sweet funny moments in this book: Louis' Star Search audition, the trip to the Iowa baseball camp (where hillbillies are more terrifying that gang bangers), Jalen's \\"Rude Dude\\" bat. Despite the fact that there are no sudden changes of heart, the players never quite permanently comes together as a team, and the league's two founders end up as mortal enemies, this is nonetheless an uplifting story. Some of the kids have potential, some don't, the odds are against most. Maybe a summer of baseball can't save them but as one of the League's founders poignantly notes, \\"If we save one, then this League is a success.\\"<br />The best news is that while Cabrini itself is being razed, the Near North League continues. It's a shame this book is out of print. It is definitely worth seeking out.	2004-06-29
US	50889792	R3A1B5DHMA7LKC	0345435273	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I liked it but...	So here's the second book in LKH's series about fairy princess Merry Gentry. She was blackballed once from the fairy court but she'll be welcomed back with open arms and the throne provided she wins a conception race with her cousin. When she's not seeking the lucky farmer, she assists a fellow fey that was blackballed from the court for mysterious reasons, navigates Seelie and Unseelie court intrigues and searches for a legendary big bad-The Nameless, a repository of old magic and evil who has been set loose by some naughty fairy (less cornball than it sounds.) But the plot goes into effect only when the bedroom door is open.<br />Which brings us to the problem here. Does something have to go tight in the lower regions of Merry's body in every chapter? I sometimes wonder if Hamilton mourns the death of hair metal. Every man has washboard abs and long, flowing locks that would make the lads from Poison weep with envy. To be fair, she does run with a supernatural crowd-it's just the repeated, predictable characteristics of every male that grow wearisome. This is made less tolerable with all the sex. Normally I'm not one to complain about this subject. But, again personal taste, I either wanna read pages devoted solely to mindless sex or I wanna read a work of fiction. Combining the two can be a losing proposition as far as plot is concerned. Not to mention that many of the encounters in the book are a little....off-putting (Amazon's rules necessitate that I omit the details but they involve pain and sex with goblins and a teensy fairy guy. Seriously.)<br />But I keep reading these books nonetheless. Hamilton's alternate universe is artfully constructed. Merry's character is engaging and has some fine moments, such as the moment when she realizes the real reason her Mother truly dislikes her. Recommended with caveats noted.	2004-06-29
US	50889792	R1G1IEWCL5X8M2	078796784X	882951785	Ask the Rabbi: The Who, What, When, Where, Why, & How of Being Jewish	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great introductory resource	This looks more like like a children's book from the cover but I was pleased to find that it really is written for any audience. The author does a great job of clarifying but not over-simplifying topics so it may even be better suited to adults. Rabbi Ron is from a conservative congregation but is exceptionally even-handed when discussing all movements within Judaism-he devotes a whole chapter to Reform and Orthodox Judaism and briefly discusses Renewal. He also makes for a pleasant, funny tour guide and an engaging representative of Judaism today. <br />The book is well-organized and easy to skip around if you aren't interested in a particular subject. With chapters ranging on topics from the Torah, holidays and customs, branches of Judaism, history, relations and comparisons between Jews and Christians, and the Kabbalah you'll find enough to at least answer questions if not pique your interest. This was the first book (and obviously not the last) I picked up when I was considering conversion so it's a sentimental favorite. I hope you'll find it as enjoyable and fun as I did.	2004-06-04
US	50889792	R3NHV5BTHPL9HE	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	3	26	26	N	N	Forget what you know about fairies	Laurell K. Hamilton starts a new series here with the fairies that got a passing mention in Bloody Bones. You neither need to be familiar with that book or the Anita Blake series to start here. But do start here instead of jumping in anywhere or you'll be completely lost.<br />(Apologies in advance if I keep comparing the 2 series here. I figure most people found this book from the Anita Blake series but certainly not all.) <br /> Merry Gentry (nee NicEssus) is part fey but has been hiding her true identity for 3 years among the humans. She's really a royal princess from a seriously dysfunctional fairy family. Her Aunt is the head of the Unseelie court and wanted Merry dead. For the past 3 years, her family and the tabliod press have been seeking her out. She's been hiding with the aid of glamour spells and making a living at a supernatural detective agency not entirely unlike Anita's Animators Inc.<br />The story begins much like an Anita story. Some clients come for help, Merry reluctantly assists with the prodding of her boss. A big bad appears, there's a fight, then there's some sex. Then however the story takes an unexpected turn which I won't spoil for you.<br />As a character, Merry is distinct from Anita Blake and that's a good thing. She's neither as tough nor as sociopathic. She can, however, hold her own as she discovers she's more powerful that she ever suspected. Much like Anita, all men want Meredith but since she's part supernatural being and an heir to the throne this facet of the story doesn't come across as obnoxiously as it does in the Anitaverse. Hamilton also finds a rather clever way to explain why all this lust is essential to the story-again no spoilers. Also, even though Merry is less human than Anita I found her far more accessible. This book is as sexually charged as the latter entries in the Anita series so take that as a caveat emptor if this really, really turned you off. I didn't find it as squirm-worthy though (is that a word?), probably for the reasons I've already described. The pain element and the goblin (don't ask) did however catch me a bit off guard.<br />Hamilton is still a genius with blending her magical world with ours but the first entry in the series is largely about fey interactions exclusively. The writing is fast-paced and enjoyable. Hamilton is no Steinbeck but she knows how to keep you involved. If you shun fantasy because you feel silly reading about unicorns and elves, this series will definitely appeal. I'm not sure if Hamilton created fantasy noir but she is it's most visible purveyor. I've already got book two which I plan to begin-whaddaya know-as soon as I end this review.	2004-05-15
US	50889792	R3DIZY3VMI99M3	0312241356	115437371	And the Band Played On: Politics, People, and the AIDS Epidemic	Books	5	53	59	N	N	An outstanding work of journalism	I'm sure most people are familiar with the story but just as very brief background Randy Shilts was a reporter at the epicenter of the AIDS crisis when it first began. When his paper assigned him to cover the story on a regular basis (the only paper in the country to do so), he gained access to an vast wealth of material and a unique perspective-one that for many years went largely unreported by most of the media until the death of Rock Hudson changed everything. Shilts discovered he himself was HIV positive after he finished the book; he had asked his doctor not to reveal the test results to him until then. He passed way in 1994. His work to alert his own community on the coming health crisis often made him a pariah within it.<br />This is an amazing history of how the virus took off in America and an insight into why it remained so under-reported for so long. The story involves some very brave patients, some very irresponsible ones, incredibly dedicated medical professionals, major bungling by our government and the blood industry-some of it intentional and some paths paved with good intentions, and the mixed, frustrating reaction of the gay community itself. Shilts doesn't write completely without bias-he calls the decision of the CDC to release patient names to an NYC bloodbank \\"incredibly stupid\\" but who wouldn't agree with him on that point?  Also, Shilt's fury at certain members of the Reagan administration and Reagan himself is palpable. Once again though, who wouldn't agree with him once the story has been unfolded. His anger is not limited just to the government nor is this just an anti-Republican screed-he praises Orrin Hatch and Everett Koop while bitterly recalling the inaction of Ed Koch's administration in New York. Gay leaders also are not always portrayed in a flattering light. For all of that though, Shilts struggles to be fair and largely is successful. <br />This book may look daunting, both because of it's subject matter and it's length (clocking in around 600 pages.) However it is incredibly worth your time and written so well that you'll make surprisingly short work of it. Even if you aren't interested in AIDS per se, the story of how our government responded to this crisis (or, rather, largely failed to) should and will frighten you. An incredible call to action and snapshot of a moment in time and place that might otherwise have been forgotten. And that would be a tragedy.	2004-04-27
US	50889792	R2NMMFHCH66MJ2	0786409991	489101020	Holy Grail. The Legend, the History, the Evidence	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting but non-essential	I confess I'm obsessed with the Grail, the Knights Templar, Mary Magdalene, the Tarot. Blame that doggone DaVinci Code. This quest-no pun intended-led me to Griffin's book. <br />The good news is it's short and it does have some interesting historical asides (Jesus' blood would have been preserved by Joseph of Armimathea in the Grail because it was the Jewish burial tradition to bury spilt blood with the deceased.) The bad news is the book badly needs an editor. Information is repeated over and over, sometimes within paragraphs of each other. Griffin, while clearly passionate about his subject, is also clearly not a career writer-the cover says he's a network specialist. He's capable but his prose lacks a certain polish and elegance. He also has a slight Christian bias, occasionally not separating historical fact from mythology. For example, Griffin states that Joseph of Armimathea established the first Christian church at Glastonbury and carried with him 2 cruets of Christ's blood. I believe Joseph's founding of Glastonbury and in fact his presence in the British Isles is legend-supported by incidental historical details but nonetheless not fact. However Griffin presents it this way and uses this legend as a jumping off point for a whole line of reasoning. That and few other instances made me question the information and conclusions provided.<br />This book is a good supplement or jumping off point but should not be considered the alpha and omega of your own quest for the Grail legend. Good luck, fellows knights!	2004-04-16
US	50889792	R2QT2A8RQQ9GAY	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	And they are divine	First of all I did not like the movie. So don't let that deter you. This is a wonderful book full of life and poetry with passages that beg to be re-read. I read this book based on a recommendation and I wasn't sure whether I'd even finish it. It's one of my favorites now.<br />Siddha Abbott is having some problems. She has postponed her wedding and is on the outs with her mother thanks to an interview in the New York Times where she divulges (thinking it's not for publication) that her Mother was not the best parent. And in fact she wasn't between the boozing and the pills and her just not really wanting to be married or a parent most of the time. Siddha's mother, Vivi, sends her the scrapbook she created to document the times of her and her 3 lifelong friends, the Ya-Ya's. Ostensibly this is because Siddha asked for information from her on female friendships but really this is Vivi's attempt to explain why she is the way she is to her estranged daughter in the only way she can. Over the course of the book, Siddha and Viva, in Washington and Louisiana respectively, will delve into the past and try to come to terms with it. Parts of the story are funny, like the Ya-Ya's attending the Gone with the Wind premiere (a sequence like so many others that the film failed to do justice to.) Some parts are touching and some are really disturbing-the abuse endured by Vivi and later Siddha is not dwellt on extensively but it's intense. The Ya-Ya's, who care for them both, help Siddha fill in some blanks about Vivi's disappearances and one alcohol fueled rage that literally left scars. The themes of forgiveness and redemption and finally taking joy in the moment run throughout.<br />And the writing! Wells is in no hurry with her narrative but has such a gift for description that you could read all day happily about the Ya-Ya's sitting on that porch (\\"This is where they lay for hours, contemplating their navels, sweating, dozing, swatting flies, trading secrets there on the porchin a hot, humid girl soup.\\") If you thought the movie was too maudlin or manufactured (it was), this book strikes a perfect note. It's funny, sad and sweet in just the right balance. And the end-I won't give it away but I just wanted to step into the pages and experience it with the characters who were like family at that point. There is so much that is worthwhile in this book it's not just for mothers and daughters.	2003-12-02
US	50889792	R3LCHQVSTMALO7	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Just keeps getting better	Man oh man do I love Stephanie Plum, the protagonist of Evanovich's numbered series. I like my female PI's tough but it seems lately that they are so hardened I can't relate to them. I gave up on Kay Scarpetta, Anita Blake is frequently annoying and I never really took a shine to VI Warshawski (but I do love Kinsey Millhone.) So now we have Stephanie Plum, Jersey girl and (would-be) bounty hunter extraordinaire who is long on attitude and a little short on skill.<br />As with all series, starting at the beginning is best but Evanovich does a fab job of catching you up on the action without rehashing the last three books. This time Stephanie is on the trail of a bail jumping gal who has never been in trouble. And instead of fleeing town she is mysteriously hanging around, seemingly to torment her ex-boyfriend. He hires Steph, ostensibly to recover some love letters his ex took but he seems a little shady himself. Her prey also gets the jump on our poor Steph, who at one point finds herself bound with her own handcuffs after unwittingly letting the bond jumper into her apartment. Plum has her usual cast of helpers-Lula the ex-hooker, her heat-packing grandmother who has seen one too many episodes of Police Woman, and Ranger, her mysterious bounty hunter mentor. Oh and Morelli is back of course. Speaking of Steph's favorite Trenton detective, these two finally act on the long-standing chemistry between them. That alone is worth the price of the book my friends. She also picks up a new co-conspirator-a really bad transvestite with a knack for cryptography (long story.)<br />No point in rehashing the tale but if you are a fan of the series this will not disappoint. And if you are not I really recommend it. It's fluff sure but not the kind that will leave you burning your library card in the morning. This series is a really fun read with enough mystery to keep you turning the pages and something to make you laugh out loud at least once per book. Slapstick mystery at its finest with a heroine you'd actually wanna get a beer with.	2003-11-23
US	50889792	R19MERK8JZUSAC	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great literature disguised as a mystery	If it were just the surface tale of the mystery of who killed Katie Marcus it would still be a page-turner. But Dennis Lehane accomplishes so much more. This is a profound story of loyalty, regret, love and betrayal. Lehane invests every character with a wonderful depth and complexity.<br />The story begins with the childhood abduction of Dave, one of a trio of boys whose friendship at first glance is clearly doomed to not survive adulthood. Dave escapes from his abductors but is never the same. He grows into a haunted under-employed man, who nevertheless has a wife and child now whom he loves as best he can. Jimmy becomes a brilliant thief who reforms after he is sent to jail and loses his first wife to cancer. Sean becomes a detective with a broken marriage. When Jimmy's daughter is killed, the three are pulled together once again. All have secrets that Lehane brilliantly hints at and reveals in page-turning pieces. What caused Sean's suspension from the force? What violent secret from his past is Jimmy hiding? What exactly happened to Dave the night Jimmy's daughter Katie died and whose blood was he covered in when he came home? What is Jimmy's connection to Katie's fiance? Therein lies the surface of the tale but it's in the pained hearts of the protagonists where the tale really lies. He lays bear the contents of their souls and while it's not always pretty, it feels heart breakingly true.<br />So many great moments in this book: Jimmy's love for his daughter, how Dave's wife handles her part in events, the relationship Sean has with his father, how his mother keeps saving newspaper clippings for his wife since she simply must be returning to him, every character struggling in his own tormented way to be the best man he can be, the tragedy of thoughts left unexpressed and then the moment passes forever. I wish I had the ability to express how wonderful this book is. This is a must-read even if you aren't a mystery fan.	2003-11-23
US	50889792	R1BZXEIZPAT1Q	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Anita wherefore art thou?	I had no idea how to rate this book. If you've followed the series, you'll probably want to read this one. Unless you've hated the direction that last book or two has taken in which case you may wanna skip it. <br />Before I start complaining about all the kinkiness, let me confess that Anita's priggish-ness in the early novels aggravated me badly. She wouldn't so much as kiss Jean-Claude (her would-be boyfriend who was near perfect other than the whole vampire thing.) No intercourse til marriage she tells Richard-her other would-be boyfriend who was near perfect other than the whole werewolf thing. Who by the way has turned into a rather nutty self-loathing guy who barely appears in the book and when he does you just wanna smack him. The whole leader of the local pack apparently is seriously not agreeing with him.<br />The story starts out promisingly enough with Anita on the job with Animators Inc. Soon she has a mysterious new client and the bad news that the Vampire Council-specifically Belle Morte the found of Jean-Claude's and Asher's lines-has taken an interest in St. Louis's vampire/werewolf/Anita goings-ons. Pretty soon this devolves into a yet another tale in which every man she encounters wants to get carnal with her even though she is annoying as ever, with pointless arguments that go on for pages that make you wanna throttle her and anyone who would wanna get busy with her. And naturally she just has to enter into a menage with JC and Asher so Asher isn't forced to return to Belle Morte. Uh yeah, that makes sense to me. And I haven't even mentioned the Ardeur that needs feeding. Who hasn't Blake had relations with yet? Let's see...well there's Willie the vamp and Irving the werewolf reporter. Then again they've been missing for a few books now. Maybe they were afraid their draft notices were coming up.<br />Other bad news for fans of Dolph the police lieutenant-he's as buggy for Richard and hates all supernatural types now since an event occurred in hispersonal life. <br />This book isn't entirely bad and honestly I'll run out and grab the next one as soon as it's...available from the public library. I haven't reached the point I have with Anne Rice where I've just completely given up. There's still hope for Laurell and Anita.	2003-11-18
US	50889792	R127LX2FYJZHOH	0765341972	21305186	The Mothman Prophecies	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting yes. Believable? Still don't know.	I don't know quite what to make of this book, because I don't know quite what to make of the events that occured in West Virginia (and Ohio and Long Island, among other places) in the late 60's. The story is probably well-known if you've seen the movie. The book does differ somewhat from the movie but this isn't exactly a linear tale. I did read that Keel was pleased with the results.<br />In brief, in the late 60's a lot of peculiar events took place in the area around the Ohio/West Virginia border centered around the town of Point Pleasant, WV. Most of the events involved sightings of the Mothman (whose name was coined from a Batman villain) but there were various other Men in Black types running around Point Pleasant too. Other events are too numerous to mention and seem to involve lots of peculiar folk showing up on people's doorsteps and beeping phonecalls and maybe an abduction or two. The events culminate in the collapse of the Silver Bridge. Despite some criticisms of the book (the reason for the Bridge collapse had a scientific explanation), Keel does not suggest that the tragedy was caused by the Mothman, et al. He simply suggests that these visitors knew about it and purposefully misled him and others. How did they know? Keel thinks they are time-travelling visitors from another dimension that come here for purposes unknown and maybe unknowable, although possibly just because it amuses them. It all sounds fairly ridiculous when you try to explain it. Keel seems reasonable and he's well-respected by his peers (his peers, granted, probably including some rather flaky folks.) <br />The book is well-documented and not especially sensationalistic. I actually grew tired of the repeated stories of odd occurences at crossroads and a seemingly endless parade of unexplained lights in the sky. It is short and worth a read if your interest was especially piqued by the movie or you just have an interest in this sort of thing, in which case adjust the rating upwards. Otherwise, this book probably isn't for you. Do be prepared to be haunted by Keel's final words (a quote from Charles Fort, a famed student of the unexplainable): \\"If there is a universal mind, must it necessarily be sane?\\"	2003-11-17
US	50889792	RI8ZCVVIDTORD	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It doesn't matter if you are a baseball fan	This was a wonderful book and I am truly not a professional sports fan. Instead, just fall in love with the story the way the author, Michael Lewis, did. The Oakland A's were in 2002 at the top of the American League West and yet had the smallest budget (at the bottom of the list? The team with the largest budget, the Texas Rangers.) How they did it involves the story of GM Billy Beane, a Harvard stats wiz, an almanac writer named Bill James, and a rag-tag group of players who other teams had largely overlooked or written off. <br />Even if you don't follow baseball, you'll be able to follow this book. And if you are an avid fan, you'll find that it's not overly simplified and may even give you some new perspective (base stealing bad, walks good?) Lewis is a great prose writer and writes with such generosity and affection even when discussing the some of the protagonist's flaws that the book is an inspiration to read without ever being corny or maudlin. I loved the stories about reluctant-yet-brilliant first baseman Scott Hatteberg and Chad Bradford, the earnest kid with the brilliantly deceptive pitch. But it was the story of Jeremy Brown, a chunky young man from the south who was the A's first round draft pick and largely ridiculed in the baseball press, that had me nearly on my feet cheering by the end of the book. Just about perfect all in all.	2003-10-31
US	50889792	R3CN53Z9YNATKN	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	I actually liked it	What a beating this entry into the series is taking here. I've read the entire series and actually I did like this one. Anita was so hard and so uptight in the beginning she was a little annoying. She loosens up a little in the first area and a LOT in the second when she contracts Jean Claude's ardeur (think bionic lust)through those pesky vampire marks. Richard's character doesn't come across well-but she's been hinting that his character would take this direction (he wants Anita because she can do things an ordinary girl can't but he wants an ordinary girl so he doesn't want Anita...typical stuff even if you're not a reluctant alpha werewolf/necromancer couple.)<br />The story begins with Anita saving one of her wereleopards at a sex club and in the process possibly contracts lycanthropy herself. As a result, she meets Micah the wereleopard and Nimir Raj (to her Nimir Ra) who is the new love interest and ends by  uniting the lycanthrope community to fight a pan-were bad guy and some kinky werehyenas. Most of the series regulars return after their absence in Obsidian Butterfly-including Jason, Dolph, Jean Claude, Damian, Asher, Nathaniel, and Ronnie, who is finding Anita's life just a little too out there of late so this maybe her last bow. Needless to say, this is not the book to start the series with. But if you are an Anitaverse fan or even if you 've only read a few of Hamilton's books in the series do give this one a try. It's an interesting but not out of left field direction for our slayer/lupa/nimir ra/necromancer extraordinaire heroine.	2003-09-26
US	50889792	R3INGC12IXXCND	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A book for any women who eats	Even though I've never had the disorders that the author lived through (and continues to struggle with), this book struck such a cord with me. So many of us obsess over our size to the point of self-destructiveness in thought and behavior. The author freely admits she doesn't know what precisely started her on this path, only that one day at a painfully young age she began to purge her meals. This led to years of bulimia that eventually led way to anorexia. Although it doesn't sound that interesting, Hornbacher is a greatly talented writer (in the midst of her illness in her teens, she won a scholarship to Interlochen, a prestigious private school for young artists and later attended American University as a journalism major.)  <br />As Hornbacher explains, this illness seems to find so many young women because our culture prizes thinness in women and everything that it implies-not only a beauty standard but the idea that you possess self-discipline and an ascetic conquering of the body's wants. As her illness progresses, what was most disturbing for me was to observe the positive feedback she got from people such as her grandmother who obsesses so much about weight that she chastises Hornbacher's 10 year old skinny cousin over her eating to the point of tears. Later a boyfriend of hers pinches her arm and comments on how much he likes it that he can't pinch any fat on her body. As it stands now, the author's life expectancy is highly truncated and she struggles to emerge from sleep each morning because her pulse grows erratic and dips into the 30's during the night. She deglamorizes eating disorders the way Jerry Stahl deglamorized drug use in Permananent Midnight. Hornbacher's hard won perspective seems beyond her 23 years and is worth listening to.	2003-05-17
US	50889792	R1VU96N46FL0JY	0312179421	599701905	Facing The Extreme: One Woman's Tale of True Courage, Death-Defying Survival and Her Quest For The Summit	Books	2	4	5	N	N	If you read only one book about climbing....	...well, I'd say read Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air. Or even Boukreev's The Climb or David Brashears High Exposure. I thought this book would be interesting because it's a different summit and a female climber. It does move at a brisk pace but it's definitely not up to par with the other titles.<br />To be fair, Kocour is not a professional writer. And while her interment on Denali might have been suspenseful for her, considering most of it was spent tentbound in a blizzard where she never appears to be in real danger there's not a lot going on for the reader. She is also (as other reviewers have observed) rather ungenerous towards her fellow climbers. Even her tentmate, the only one she seemed to get along with, gets described as \\"pleasant to look at, though not particularly handsome.\\" And despite the assistance of a professional writer, some of the wording is awkward bordering on hilarious. Example: on complimenting one of her guides upon reaching the summit, she calls him \\"a tribute to his family's storied mountaineering history.\\" Who talks like this-hands? Her ethnic stereotyping of some Korean climbers is also tiresome.<br />Still, it's an easy read and it does have some interesting detail about Denali and climbing in the death zone. And it's one of the few mountaineering books that I've seen written by a woman. So, read at your discretion.	2002-07-17
US	50889792	R10YRI9UAT4LEV	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Very unexpected	You get the idea from the jacket cover and from the first half or so that this is a story about young girl finds spelling bee success and finally fits into quirky family, etc. Then the author goes completely into another direction. When Eliza, the family underachiever, wins a spelling bee after being consigned to the realm of diminished expectations, she suddenly wins admiration from her parents, teachers and schoolmates. This newfound attention from her father comes at the expense of her brother's time with him. Her brother, naturally, does not take this very well. This is coupled with some increasingly distant behavior from her mother towards the whole family. <br />The whole family seems to be searching for a way to complete themselves. The father, Saul, through his children. Eliza through trying to please her father, and later through absorption into the study of letters. Her brother Aaron through a spiritual quest that ends (I kid you not) in a Hare Krishna temple. And Eliza's mother--I won't give that away but it's the most captivating and bizarre part of the story.<br />The last third delves heavily into Kabbalistic teachings that will lose most readers (or maybe it's just me.) And I have a hard time believing, like other reviewers, that Eliza who was before a lackluster student would suddenly grasp esoteric principles of Hebrew mysticism. This book is beautifully written though and you'll puzzle over the meaning of it long after it's over. The last two pages will also truly surprise you.	2002-07-17
US	50889792	R1177B0RUFB8JN	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great police procedural and historical setting	It's the end of the century-the 19th that is-in New York City and Theodore Roosevelt is Police Commissioner. When a series of disturbing child murders and mutilations begins, an unorthodox team is assembled including an alienist (the 19th century's version of an abnormal psychologist basically), a reporter, 2 detective brothers trained in such &quot;pioneering&quot; methodologies as fingerprinting and a young woman determined to be the City's first female police officer. Their goal is to find one of the first known serial killers.<br />Although this story is fiction, historical figures such as Roosevelt and John Hunt Morgan do make appearances and turn-of-the-century New York is rendered in fascinating detail. The story is fast-paced and despite its length you'll find that you'll make short work of reading it with most chapters ending with a teaser that makes you keep going. If you've read the other reviews, you may have noticed comments about the characters being rather flatly drawn and this criticism is valid. The character of Sara in particular is not fleshed out well and comes across as something of an anachronistic caricature. Still, this wouldn't be the first mystery novel with this shortcoming and Carr loads the story with details about 19th century New York and criminal science without killing the pacing. Definitely worth it but don't let the setting fool you. This is a graphic story and the victims are children so be warned.	2001-07-03
US	50889792	R2LHHTNNKJT2QG	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Must avoid urge to describe as v.g....oops	What can I say? This isn't exactly War and Peace but it is sweet, funny, and well-observed. Every woman should be able to relate to Bridget somehow. And if you are 32 and single like myself you'll wonder if Helen Fielding wrote the book about you. While some parts of the story will ring truer than others (does anyone really have a mother like this?) it's well worth the time to read. And at under 300 pages that's v. agreeable. (ARGH! I couldn't help myself)	2001-04-11
US	50889792	R1Z10IMHV7H36C	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	0	0	N	N	O Michael, where art thou?	Poor Michael Crichton. He's written some good (and uhm ok) SF over the years yet mention his name to the average SF reader and they give you the same look a reader of legal mysteries gives you when you admit to having read John Grisham. <br />Crichton's latest is the story of some University historians who discover that the reason the big, mysterious corporation is funding their dig at a feudal French castle is all part of their supersecret, new technology. No surprise it's time travel, as the students find out when their professor warps back for a look and finds himself in big, medieval trouble. Chaos ensues. And lots of it. Yes, initially it's suspenseful when the students find themselves in their first FIVE or so life or death confrontations. But by the time the Green Knight rolls around (see the Amazon.Com review) you've had about a dozen attempted beheadings/eviscerations too many. And I won't ruin the ending, but the revenge extracted on one character at the end is sublimely ridiculous (how bad would you have to hate someone to wish the plague on them I ask you?)<br />Some may turn up their nose at Crichton but Jurassic Park was brilliant. This effort is below that but still, its better than Congo (we'll just leave Sphere out of this.) And I still gave it 3 stars because it's very well researched with a lot of cool historical detail. Just file it under beach reading.	2001-02-06
US	50889792	RZ89PQN2XCHL0	044900371X	429783385	The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	How can a flower become an obsession? Read on	Susan Orlean's gift with this book is to bring the subject to us as it first appeared to her. What began with her as a magazine article became a novel-length tale of obsession and the pursuit of perfection. While some have criticized the author's lack of passion for orchids, it is precisely her position as an curious outsider seeking enlightenment that drives this tale. <br />Orlean skillfully weaves around the tale of John Laroche's improbable scheme to plunder and eventually clone the ghost orchid from a Florida state nature preserve with stories about the history of orchid cultivation, the Seminoles, and the peculiar nature of the greenhouse culture in Florida. All the while, she seeks to see the elusive ghost orchid for herself. The pursuit of this goal, which is never successful, leads to several hilarious excursions into the swamps of Central Florida with the reluctant author and various guides, including at one time a park ranger and several members of a local prison's work release crew. Throughout Orlean displays a dry wit, an endearing curiousity, and a brilliantly personal writing style as she seeks to understand what drives some of us to pursue an object with obsessive passion and devotion.	2000-12-29
US	50889792	R35SGZ4IV5QZUN	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	4	6	7	N	N	What a first effort!	I remember reading that this book had won the Pulitzer and being rather uninterested from the initial description. 200 pages later and I'm thinking this is one of the best short story collections I have ever read. Jhumpa  Lahiri has written a beautiful collection of stories that take place in  India and America.  Her gift is to write weightless prose with a  deceptively simple feel. Whether dealing with a young American woman's  feelings toward her married Indian lover, the unexpected, sometimes  unwanted, discoveries when newlyweds really get to know one another  (unfolded in a clever analogy), or the title story about a tour guide's  revelatory afternoon with an American family these tales amuse, enchant,  and touch your heart. Brilliantly conceived from start to finish.	2000-06-30
US	50889792	RGHL6OEPRMFP	0385488181	262510817	Eiger Dreams: Ventures Among Men and Mountains	Books	4	100	104	N	N	A great read for those at sea level and rising	How to do justice to a writer like Krakauer....well, he's such a good writer that I feel any review I write would suffer compared to the source. Nevertheless, here I go. <br />This is Krakauer's first book. It's a  collection of his previously published articles on mountaineering (save the  last one about Devil's Thumb which was written for the book.) What a gread  read too whether you are an afficionado of the sport or, like me, you've  never seen a pair of crampons in your life (by the way, those are a set of  spikes climbers strap to their boots to support themselves and prevent  slipping on icy slopes.) Some of the famous peaks that make an appearance  here include K2, Mt McKinley, and the titular Eiger. Throughout you will  read about some of the eccentric personalities in the international  climbing community, personal triumph and inspiration, offshoots like  bouldering and waterfall climbing, and horrific tragedy. <br />If you read  Into Thin Air, you'll be surprised at how funny this book is. Krakauer  displays a wry, self-deprecating wit in several of these stories-something  the somber subject matter of the latter book didn't permit. The last one,  about his decision to solo the Devil's Thumb in Alaska in his early  twenties is hysterical.<br />Anyone who can make a story about being tentbound  or the inventor of the perfect ice axe riveting deserves attention. If you  are on the fence, just go ahead and get this book. It's definitely worth  it.	2000-06-12
US	50889792	R1Q7WRER547RRD	0060977477	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	1	1	N	N	And the sea will tell..	Well by now you've probably seen the theatrical trailer and know the story. The Andrea Gail, a boat in the North American swordfishing fleet, finds itself off of the coast of the Grand Banks when a record hurricane  hit the area in October, 1991. She disappeared virtually without a  trace-the only part ever recovered were the fuel drums. Junger, a  first-time author, reconstructs and fleshes out the story with details of  life on a fishing boat, lessons on meteorology, a brief history of  commercial fishing,  and accounts of others who survived the storm. He does  a better job than you would think and manages to tell the story with  appropriate gravity and respect without diving headfirst into pathos. I'm  interested in seeing the film and not just because of that killer wave in  the trailer. For a life-long inlander, some scenes and equipment  descriptions were simply impossible to visualize. The part detailing an  at-sea rescue involving a some tricky manuevers by a Coast Guard vessel  found me at a loss-it was still exciting though so what do I know? Not as  compelling a book as Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air although the latter has  the advantage (? ) of a first-person narrative of events as they unfolded  rather than well-informed conjecture. Still, a good read and a touching  story.	2000-06-02
US	50889792	R1JE7782SR0WGJ	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	67	75	N	Y	I know this because Tyler knows this	If you're coming to the book after seeing the film-it's ok to raise your hand here as your reviewer did also-you'll see the screenwriter pretty much took the book's contents verbatim. What's missing are a few funny moments  like Marla's unwitting part in the soap-making process and some disturbing  details of her's and Tyler's sex life. Plus a different and more satisfying  ending (c'mon, you didn't think the narrator and Marla were really in love  did you?)Palahniuk's jump-cut, stream-of-consciousness style take a little  getting used to, but this is a clever black comedy that leaves you with  more to think about than the punchlines when it's over. It's about a  culture of numbness, where Huxley, not Orwell, was right and the only way  to feel is to drive yourself to the limits of physical pain or destroy  something beautiful. You've probably seen the movie and giving away plot  details would just detract from the experience. Just read it!	2000-05-29
US	50889792	R1ACDZQCJXF0Q6	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The best book I read in 1999	Even if you're not a nonfiction fan and could care less about mountainclimbing, you will love this book. In 1996 Jon Krakauer fulfilled a lifelong dream to climb Mt Everest on assignment with Outside magazine.  That year a record number of people lost their lives on the mountain in a  freak snowstorm.  Krakauer sets the tale up as a disaster many veterans  (including some of the deceased) believed was inevitable as the mountain  grew both increasingly crowded and populated with many inexperienced  climbers(one member of the expedition did not know how to put their  ice-climbing gear on; later a line to climb the summit has deadly  consequences.) This is a heartbreaking story of by turns bad luck,  self-sacrifice, bad decisions, cowardice, and hubris made all the more  compelling by Krakauer's wise, modest prose. Indeed, he clearly yet  unfairly feels he is partly responsible for the death of one climber and  goes so far as including a letter from one victim's angry sister in the  epilogue of the paperback version.  While I won't go so far to say this is  a tale of Darwinism, this book makes a sobering statement about mankind's  attempt to turn nature into a theme park with tragic results.	2000-05-24
US	50889792	R3RZGXBCH4OELG	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Did Kirkus READ this book?	No question this book is on my all-time top read list. I loved this story: touching, suspenseful and brilliantly original. As these Ivy League classics students immerse themselves in Greek tragedy in class, their  real-life murder plot exposes each of their own fatal flaws and eventually  their downfall. Euripedes would have loved it! Don't bother with the Kirkus  review-read this book.	1999-11-05
US	50889792	R1YRYAH8LCUHQD	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	What's up with this?	Having read both Red Dragon and The Silence of the Lambs, I rushed out and made a rare hardcover purchase of Hannibal. Having finished it, I  feel...icky. Early on there are some great moments for Clarice and Hannibal  but overall this book is a big, gross letdown. No, we really don't want to  know about Lecter's childhood trauma. We don't want to see Jack Crawford  forced into retirement. And what Thomas Harris has in store for Clarice-one  of the greatest female literary heroines of the last 20 years-is criminal.  The abrupt change in both hers and Hannibals characters in the last 100  pages is ludicrous. I hear David Mamet is writing the screenplay. I only  hope he throws away the whole ending and starts over.	1999-10-25
