US	50891381	RBZXQ6RH0BJOH	0670894745	125371552	Night of Stone: Death and Memory in Twentieth-Century Russia	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Probaby the best book you'll read this year!	This is the most moving and memorable book I've read for many years. The scope is breath-taking, no less than an investigation of the Russian attitude to death, and ways of coping with it, from the late Czarist times to the present day. Given Russia's ghastly 20th century history the story is a terrible one and at many places in the book one has to pause, quite overcome by pity and emotion. Horror is piled on horror, though never for the sake of shock, yet the overriding feeling on finishing the book is of amazement at the resilience and nobility of the human spirit. The countless instances of cruelty, misery and waste, on a scale incomprehensible in a Western country, are matched by an even greater number of cases of endurance and triumph, if not physical, then spiritual. The overriding impression is of hell let loose on earth, not once, not transiently, but repeatedly, sustainedly, of millions dying, suffering and degraded in the process and yet of the survivors maintaining humanity, generosity and hope. Stupidity, prejudice and bull-headed arrogance all play their role in the story but more terrifying still is the sense of conscious, deliberate distancing from all human compassion that underlay so many of the man-made tragedies described. It is inappropriate to say that anyone will enjoy reading this wonderful book but they will be thrilled, moved and possibly changed by it. Other than by Zo Oldenbourg's unforgettable novel \\"Destiny of Fire\\" I have never been so disturbed and challenged by a single book.	2002-10-25
US	50891381	R26RHUT33F09WR	1557506590	503613719	The Ottoman Steam Navy 1828-1923	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A genuine piece of Turkish Delight - savour it!	This book is an absolute delight, opening up a vista into a long-gone world when Turkey hovered on the brink of embracing modernity but, in those pre-Ataturk days, never gathered the courage for the final plunge. The numerous high-quality photographs are as valuable for the picture they give of a vanished society as for the technical content. Grave moustachioed and befezzed officers and smart-looking seamen look at the camera across immaculately holystoned decks, obviously proud of their custodianship of the products of British, German and French shipyards and armaments workshops - images which are in many cases at sharp variance with the actuality of venality, corruption and inefficiency that governed their daily lives (The story in the text of Ottoman seamen stranded at a German shipyard, and practically destitute, as the funds do not become available to pay for the refurbishment of their ship, is especially pathetic). Those who love Turkey and the Turks will enjoy these photographs even if they have little interest in naval history - the views of ports, shipyards and the Golden Horn are quite splendid. The book is in fact in three main sections - an introductory text, a superb collection of photographs and a technical appendix that provides not just specifications and brief histories of every ship to serve in the Ottoman navy in the period covered, but also excellent general arrangement drawings and hull lines for many of them. This book is one that is to be treasured by anybody with an interest in naval matters of the ironclad and pre-World War 1 age. I have enjoyed it since I have purchased it and will regard it as a source of valuable reference and entertainment for years to come. Buy it!	2002-10-11
US	50891381	R1H49G29VWIJH1	0465057918	276025833	The Tsar's Last Armada	Books	1	8	12	N	N	A very disappointing treatment of an epic story.	I approached this book with considerable hope, expecting that a Russian author with access to material hitherto unfamiliar in the West would be able to shed significant new insights on the tragic epic of Russia's naval forces in the Russo-Japanese War. I was very sorely disappointed. The overall impression is that the author is unfamiliar with naval matters and has indeed little feel for them. Though full of anecdotes, little attention is paid to overall context and the technological elements of the story - essentially the matching of British naval shipbuilding and armament prowess in Japanese hands matched against a hodgepodge of French, American and indigenous Russian practice - is not addressed. The ships themselves - no less than the men are critical in this story (As the unforgettable introduction to the movie of \\"The Cruel ea\\" had it: \\"The heroines are the ships and the heroes are the men..\\") but there is little description provided of their purpose, design or capabilities. This is not a major a drawback to a reader in possession of a good reference library on the period, but to one approaching the topic for the first time it would be a major stumbling block. The anecdotal approach indeed dominates the book and one has a strong impression of stories that have been passes from hand to hand, growing in the telling, and repeated here with little attempt to screen them on the grounds of veracity or likelihood. Throughput the book the emphasis is on the inefficiency of the Russian forces and the inadequacy of the training - nevertheless individual units did fight well and heroically at Tsu-Shima and the standard of the Russian gunnery was in some instances high. One wonders if exhaustion at the end of a long voyage with inadequate docking and support facilities on the way, and the necessity of overloading ships such that armoured belts were sometimes all but submerged, were not equally strong contributors to the disaster. One gets an uneasy feeling that myths and legends surround this battle for political and ideological reasons and that the full story has still not emerged. If this is the case then it is to the detriment of the memory of many brave men, officers and seamen alike. The book is written in rather weird English, which the author himself is not to be blamed for, but his editors could have done him better service if they had modified it accordingly. On occasions unfamiliarity with the relevant terminology means that the reader is confused by what is even meant (e.g. is a \\"tower\\" a \\"turret\\"?). The choice of illustrations is similarly eccentric - it is for example unclear why two of the major sections of the book should be prefaced by photographs of, respectively, a British Monmouth Class armoured cruiser and a German torpedo boat, neither of which figure in the story. The maps, which are essential to understanding of the climactic battle of Tsu-Shima no less than the voyage to it, are totally inadequate. I seldom feel totally cheated when I shell out for a book - this is one of those rare occasions. If you are coming to this area of History for the first time invest instead in Richard Hough's \\"The Fleet that had to Die\\", published forty years ago and still a good introductory account.	2002-10-11
US	50891381	R2NZS3IP864ACM	0312230796	93948639	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An excellent and readable account of the Crimean Conflict	This is a comprehensive account of the Crimean War that is as complete on the diplomatic and political machinations and context as on the military operations. The latter are competently covered, not just in relation to the Crimea itself but as regards Turco-Russian operations prior to involvement of the Western powers and actions in Rumania, the Baltic, the Caucuses and even the Far East. In general the civilian players are covered in greater depth than the military ones - this is not a significant disadvantage since there is already a large and accessible literature available on the latter (readers new to the topic will enjoy Cecil Woodham-Smith's classic \\"The Reason Why\\" and Christopher Hibbert's \\"The Destruction of Lord Raglan.\\") Despite the complexity of the diplomatic manoeuvrings before and during the war Mr.Royle covers this aspect entertainingly, imposing considerable clarity on a convoluted story. The only criticism of the book is the dearth of good maps, which are essential for a work of this nature, A few inadequate ones are supplied but in these days of computer-assisted graphics the reader has a right to expect something better.	2002-10-11
US	50891381	R3TPEYY1UWZA98	0449903346	252679937	Fyodor Dostoyevsky: A Writer's Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A superb biography, beautifully translated	This biography reads with the pace and interest of a well-written novel - a tribute to the translator no less than to the writer. It brings Dostoyevsky and his time to life and lends considerable perspective to his writings by relating them not only to the overall social context but also to the novelist's personal experiences and development. Quite inevitably, the mock-execution of Dostoyevsky and his companions - an act of calculated and petty sadism by Czar Nicholas I which it is hard to comprehend or to excuse, even after a century and a half of greater atrocities - stands as the watershed of the book, no less than of the writer's own life and it explains much that informs his subsequent work. Dostoyevsky's letter to his brother immediately after his reprieve still has power to move and the sense of rebirth conveyed in it goes far to explain how he somehow survived and made sense of the years of imprisonment, privation and exile that followed. The most heartbreaking sections of the book are not however those that deal with Siberia, but rather those detailing Dostoyevsky's gambling addiction, of which he appears never to have been cured, but rather to have been rescued by Bismarck's closure of the German casinos. The wonder is that during these years of degradation masterpieces were somehow produced and Dostoyevsky higher, almost mystical, vision of human potential evolved and came to full fruition in his last great work. The story, so full of contradictions, is well told against the background of a Russia groping towards modernity and reform, yet never finding it, and heading blindly for the abyss. Within this context Dostoyevsky's own identification with an ideal of conservative and regressive cultural and political nationalism cannot but jar the modern reader, contrasting as it does with the sublimity of so much else of his thought. Throughout it all however one gains an impression of a man who must have been difficult to like but impossible not to love ... Inshort, this is a splendid biography and a delight for any who admire the subject or have an interest in Russia, its literature and its history.	2002-03-01
US	50891381	R2I3TZHB8U7JMN	0891416455	169971674	My Just War: The Memoir of a Jewish Red Army Soldier in World War II	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful and inspiring book - read it!	This is simultaneously a moving story of the ability of the human spirit to survive the unthinkable and a fascinating account of Russia at war, as seen from ground level. The real wonder of the book is that Mr.Temkin - who lost home and family in the Holocaust, who endured appalling privations in Soviet labour battalions, who survived capture by the Nazi and the suspicions of the NKVD of escaped prisoners, who fought his way from the Don to Budapest in an infantry unit, who built a new life after the war as a Polish academic, only to become a refugee again in 1968, and who ultimately created a new life for himself and his family in the United States - could not just prevail, but do so with the generosity of spirit that radiates from every page of this book. A sub-theme of the story, equally inspiring, is Mr.Temkin's relationship to his wife, who suffered little less than himself, but who stayed a faithful support over sixty years. There is enough raw material in this book for a dozen novels but, the personal story aside, the most fascinating aspects are the details provided of what it was like to be a tiny cog in the massive Soviet war machine, not in a crack armoured or artillery or Guards unit, but in one of the vast multitude of \\"rifle divisions\\" - infantry units equipped with little more than the weapons from which they took tier name and dependent on \\"the horse with ten toes\\" for movement over vast distances and on the four-legged variety for transport of their supplies. Mr.Temkin's division could boast two motor vehicles by the end of the war - US-made jeeps for senior officers, and for the rest differed little from the units that had fought in the Crimea almost a century earlier. Much of the story makes painful reading, and spares us nothing, including details of the trail of rape and massacre cut through the civilian populations of Eastern Europe as the Soviet army, thirsty for revenge, lunged westwards. Despite all the horror - and the knowledge of the underlying tragedy of the loss of almost all the writer's family - this is a book filled with hope and inspiration. Its greatest merit may be that it rescues from oblivion so many decent, unassuming and courageous people - family members, peasants, army comrades - who live again in these pages. It is a wonderful book. Read it - and give it to your children and friends to read as well.	2002-02-28
US	50891381	R3RVS2KQ6OIR0R	081170355X	705149199	Captain Marryat: Seaman, Writer, and Adventurer	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not just  a writer -  but also a good man in a tight corner!	This thoroughly enjoyable biography has only one drawback - its brevity. Though Marryat is largely known at present as a children's writer, his reputation in his own time rested on a series of adventure novels for adults based on his own very exciting career - he can fairly be claimed to have single-handedly invented the genre of naval fiction and to have set the pattern for Forrester, Kent, Pope and O'Brien. His own life - though cut off relatively early - was as exciting and varied as anything in his fiction: starting with near suicidal action under the legendary Cochrane, at sea almost constantly in the later years of the Napoleonic Wars in opposition to the French and Americans, returning home to develop a signalling system and commence a literary career and later returning to action in Burma, his service there involving the Royal Navy's first use of steamships in action and initiating the decline of the sailing navy in which Marryat had grown up. Marryat seems to have had a natural affinity for action - as a literary lion touring the United States in the 1830s he took time out to help put down a rebellion in Canada, and was once prosecuted for brawling in the streets of London - and his zest for life comes across well in Mr.Pocock's biography. Until Dickens arrived on the scene he was the foremost popular novelist in Britain, and even thereafter was a prominent figure in London literary circles - as he had been at Court earlier. He carried a raffish air of the Napoleonic and Regency periods into the growing respectability of early Victorian society and the account provided here of his discovery by an irate husband in an American lady's hotel room, and of the ingenious manner in which he appears to have extricated himself, hints at even more scandalous events that can only now be guessed at. Throughout the book Marryat comes across as a larger than life character who must have been a delight (and an exasperation) to know and a good man to have by one's side in atight corner. One regrets however that this biography does not dwell more on the quality and content of Marryat's literary output and provide a better guide to the reader who would like to explore it further. This, and the brevity, aside, this is a most enjoyable book and can be highly recommended to anybody interested in the age of fighting sail, the advent of steam or the early Victorian literary scene.	2002-02-28
US	50891381	R18QB50HBB5T1I	0333729560	105118192	Iron Maze the Western Secret Services	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Self-deluding heroics versus ruthless efficiency	Though the story of the Russian Civil War and of the overt Western intervention is well covered elsewhere, this is the first work that this reviewer has seen which attempts to give a comprehensive overview of the covert operations that complemented more open opposition to the Bolsheviks. Though a considerable degree of uncertainty remains, the present work, based on access to recently-released materials, goes a long way to dispel myths and to illuminate these singularly amateurish efforts. Though the story is dominated by tragedy on an epic scale it is almost constantly shot through with elements of farce. One has a distinct impression of the Western Powers being totally confounded by the situation they faced, and indeed displaying an uncanny ability to back losers and be taken in by charlatans. Since no consensus emerged as to what intervention was to achieve it is no surprise that there was no overall plan, strategy or co-ordination of fragmented efforts. The coldly factual account provided here of the self-deluding heroics of Sidney Riley and Boris Savinkov, and of the ruthlessly efficient counter-measures masterminded by Dzerzhinsky, should lay to rest forever romantic fantasies about the \\"Ace of Spies\\". Offering a stark counterpoint to the antics of these fantasists are the exploits of Paul Dukes, Britain's most effective agent and of Augustus Agar VC, the cool young naval officer who led a suicidally-dangerous but deadly effective assault on the Bolshevik Fleet. The deeds of these men stand out as a glowing exception in what is otherwise a depressing sequence of unmitigated muddle, failure and indecision. As with so much else one reads of the Russian Civil War, this book reinforces the view that the ultimate Bolshevik victory was due as much to the incompetence and irresolution of their enemies as to the strengths of the Red leaders.	2002-02-24
US	50891381	R2BZC2BFZ9N2E0	1585670618	120224232	The Doughboys: America and the First World War	Books	3	13	13	N	N	An Introduction to the US ground-role in the Great War	This is a readable account of the involvement of the United States' ground forces in the Great War, the emphasis being on the Western Front, complemented by a short and generally unsatisfactory account of their intervention in Russia in the Civil War period. It is necessarily somewhat superficial as a result of the vast canvas covered but it does provide a good introduction to anybody who intends to follow-up with more detailed reading on specific topics. The writer moves at breakneck speed from Wilson's volte-face on involvement in the conflict, through the declaration of war, through mobilisation, training and deployment overseas of vast numbers of troops, and on to their commitment in battle. Pershing's conflicts with his British and French counterparts as regards how the initially small but ever-growing influx of inexperienced American troops should be employed are outlined and the arguments of both sides are generally presented with fairness and colourful vignettes are provided of the secondary as well as the main players. One of the major ironies of the story is that though the US was already by 1917 the second most powerful Naval power (and, even more ironically, this proved almost irrelevant to the overall outcome) it was also, despite three years of world conflict, a practically demilitarised nation in land-force terms. For this lack of preparedness the sanctimonious Wilson must carry a heavy responsibility. This applied as much in matters of military doctrine as of equipment - Pershing and many of his officers are shown here to have had little understanding initially of the realities of trench warfare  - though they, and their troops, learned quickly, albeit at high cost in casualties. <br />Descriptions of combat and battles is possibly the weakest part of the book, probably since the actions involved deserve considerably longer treatment to put them into the overall context of operations on the Western Front. Actions such as Belleau Wood and the St.Mihiel offensive were, in absolute terms, large-scale actions, but seen in the context of the overall Western Front their relative importance decreases significantly. The greatest contribution of the American forces was, in the end, a moral one, representing massive potential for deployment in 1919 and playing a powerful role in convincing the German High Command that resistance beyond late 1918 was futile even if a tactical withdrawal to the homeland were to be achievable. By this stage however the German forces had been soundly and comprehensively thrashed in the field, with the contribution of British, despite massive earlier losses, the decisive factor. <br />This book is at its best when it draws on an extensive archive of first-hand reminiscences from servicemen: quite surprisingly, these have apparently not been used to any significant extent by previous writers. These accounts lend significant immediacy and colour to the narrative. In general however the extracts are too short - often little more than quotes - and one would like to see a larger selection in the future in one or more dedicated volumes, ideally arranged on a thematic basis.	2001-12-13
US	50891381	RSEGNRZ0HQBA	0297819070	816155929	Rudyard Kipling	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A superb and stimulating biography! Read and Enjoy!	Even after being held spellbound by every page of this fascinating and enjoyable biography, the reader may still find large areas of Kipling's personality an enigma. Other than Hardy, it is difficult to think of another English writer who combined such facility in writing poetry as well as fiction, nor one who can so transfix the reader with such deadly accuracy of phrase and immediacy of description. And yet, and yet...... while Hardy largely dealt with one corner of Britain, at one specific period, and nevertheless achieved a timeless universality worthy of his own beloved Greek dramatists, Kipling, who drew on the whole world and the whole span of human history for his themes, ultimately became a prisoner of the prejudices and even hatreds of his own time. It is this failure, no less than the dreadful personal tragedies that marred Kipling's middle and later years, that is the core of this fine book. As perhaps no other great writer, Kipling recognised, as Orwell so correctly identified, that it is not enough to be a critic, and that the world is only moved forward by those who act. The author describes very well how it was this positive aspect of the Imperial Dream that so fascinated and inspired Kipling. The tragedy was however that this man of such broad vision and talents, and whose genius had so much of the timeless and universal, should, apparently willingly, have allowed himself to be taken over by, and identified with, some of the meaner-minded aspects of that same phenomenon. One gains an impression of a man of considerable personal charm, decency and kindness who nevertheless shrank back from the challenge of true greatness. In the process he managed to identify himself with some very ignoble sentiments and causes (he seems to have disliked just about every racial or religious group at some stage or other) and to write about his targets in terms that were offensive and hateful even in his own time. This factor may well be the crucial one in ensuring that, though the best of Kipling is superb, much of the rest is dross. <br />It is hard to praise this biography enough. Not only does it flow with all the pace of a well-written novel, but it conveys all the detail required to portray a rich and complex world without ever overwhelming the reader. One is amazed by the social linkages - for Kipling seemed to know everybody, both passively through his inherited family network, as well as actively through his courting of the great and (often not so) good. Kipling's writings are discussed in relation to his life in enough of detail to return one to the originals or to vow to read what one has hitherto missed. I forged through this biography with Kipling's Collected Verse by my side and found items that I had previously ignored illuminated splendidly by the author's placement of them in context. <br />In summary: a marvellous read, whether you already know Kipling or not. If you don't, it will send you scurrying to his writings.	2001-12-12
US	50891381	RPJ9SVSKFTAQG	0743200314	394552213	Shakespeare's Kings: The Great Plays and the History of England in the Middle Ages: 1337-1485	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An invaluable reference for the non-academic	This book is a treat for the non-academic lover of Shakespeare - a description which, one imagines, the author would willingly apply to himself. In alternate sections it provides very readable accounts of the historical background to each of Shakespeare's \\"History Plays\\", followed by analyses of the plays themselves, investigating the extent to which Shakespeare took liberties with the facts or telescoped time for the sake of dramatic effect. One is left very impressed with the extent to which, despite inevitable concessions to the limitations of time and space imposed on him, Shakespeare did on the whole manage to stay faithful to the facts and still deliver exciting dramas - his compacting of most of the Wars of the Roses into Henry VI Part III being the most notable example. Modern Hollywood scriptwriters should note! Perhaps the greatest achievement of the book is the clarity shed on the complexity of the historical events, alliances and family relationships - and the provision of user-friendly family trees helps considerably as regards the latter.  One never again wishes to see one of the Histories without this invaluable reference to hand. <br />The single disappointment of the book - by no fault of the author's - is Shakespeare's Edward III, now apparently accepted by many scholars as a largely Shakespearean piece. It is reproduced here in its entirety and is shown to be a very immature effort indeed, with little in it that is memorable as regards plot, characterisation or verse.	2001-12-05
US	50891381	R2M0W7U1ZQ22MG	0233961429	206646090	Loss of El Dorado	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Powerful, disturbing and unforgettable	This is the historical counterpart to Naipaul's \\"A Way in the World\\", even though it was written more than two decades earlier - these books should ideally be read back-to-back. It provides a history of Trinidad from the original discovery by the Spaniards until the early nineteenth century. The canvas covered is vast - the early Spanish attempts at colonisation, Raleigh's poorly-organised and squalid search for an El Dorado on the Orinoco, the arrival of French refugees escaping from the slave-uprisings on Haiti and the establishment of British control, with a leading but hardly-creditable role being played by Sir Thomas Picton, later a hero of the Peninsula and Waterloo, and the use of the island as a springboard for fomenting revolution in Latin America. It is from beginning to end a ghastly story, dominated by greed, cowardice and cruelty. There is hardly a single character who emerges with credit and at times the reader is all but overwhelmed by the catalogue of mean-minded exploitation, atrocities and treachery. As always in his non-fiction writing, Naipaul uses a novelist's eye to bring colour and life to the narrative - adding not just to the immediacy but also to the horror of much of the material. This work goes beyond historical narrative however and presents simultaneously an extended meditation on the nature of power at its most basic level. It is a terrible and disturbing work - but a great one.	2001-12-05
US	50891381	R1XDJC14AK713P	0375707174	463196150	The Mimic Men: A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Acute but Distasteful.	This is one of Naipaul's earlier novels and in it he addresses many of the same themes that occupy his latter, and masterful \\"A Place in the World\\". These include the transition of a multi-ethnic Caribbean society from colony to independence; the culture-shock of a colonial exposed to higher education in Europe; post-independence power struggles and, ultimately, failure, corruption and slow descent into near chaos arising from lack of any dynamic other than lust for power and wealth. The cultural impoverishment of Asian communities cut off from their cultural roots are poignantly described here, as in much of Naipauls's other work (including the masterful \\"A House for Mr.Biswas\\", where the treatment is tragic-comic). As always Naipaul's evocation of place and character is acute, bleak and wholly convincing. This said however, the major criticism may be less one of the book than of this particular reader. There is only so much reality that can be comfortably absorbed in a single novel. The fact that the first-person narrator, unsparing in his confessions of mean-mindedness, lechery, callousness and greed, is so contemptible a human-being makes it very hard for the reader not to feel soiled by the time the whole sordid tale is done. I first read this book fourteen years ago, and retained a very unpleasant memory of it for this reason. On re-reading I found that my earlier perception was sustained. It is a splendid literary achievement - but a very distasteful one.	2001-10-22
US	50891381	R1NN8XQZ9ZX66H	0786709103	957270506	Thackeray: The Life of a Literary Man	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Fine Biography - but Thackery remains an enigma!	Even after reading this very competent and entertaining biography Thackeray remains an enigma. He wrote one novel, Vanity Fair, which ranks with the greatest in English and another, Esmond, can be argued as the finest and most convincing historical novel in the language. Pendennis and The Newcomes are still enjoyable today and Barry Lyndon has a cynical realism that makes it a more chilling work than the elegiac cinematic masterpiece that Stanley Kubrick made from it. Yet much of the remainder of his work is tedious to the modern reader (this reviewer must be one of the few to have read The Virginians cover to cover and has no desire to repeat the experience). As this biography details so clearly, Thackeray regarded writing as necessary drudgery for much of his career and never ceased to look for alternative sources of income. Today this shows through in his work to an extent that may not have been obvious to his contemporaries, who read much of it in the form of magazine contributions and monthly parts. The inevitable comparison, today as in his lifetime, is with Dickens and the difference is primarily one of character. Thackeray, for all his mildly satirical stance, remained a man uncritical of, even content with, the world he lived in, incapable of feeling the indignation with which Dickens viewed social abuses, even if he seldom proposed concrete solutions for them. At its best this tolerance of things as they were led to Thackeray's greatest gift - his ability to portray real and credible characters, often flawed and weak at the same time as they are well-meaning, loveable and fundamentally decent. It also means however that his work is largely devoid of any larger message and that it so rooted in his time and culture that much of it loses universal appeal. This theme of essentially uncritical acceptance of his society - and to a great extent also of others such as the Western Europe and United States of his time (the latter on the brink of the Civil War) - isperhaps linked to the somewhat brutishly sybaritic attitude which is a disturbing theme through the biography. Thackeray's contemptuous attitude the prostitutes he consorted with in his early life, and perhaps later, and his acceptance of women and slaves as beings to be used and patronised, strikes a very unpleasant note, even allowing for the standards of his time. This also as echoes in his slow disengagement from his insane wife. Reading the American-tours section of this biography sent me back, for comparison purposes, to Dickens' \\"American Notes\\". The contrast between Dickens' honest indignation at the realities of Slavery is in stark comparison to Thackeray's half-tolerance, half-disgust, whole disengagement when coming in direct contact with the institution. <br />Thackeray himself lamented that the cultural mores of his age prevented a fictional hero being presented with the honesty with which Fielding portrayed Tom Jones. This is borne out not only by his treatment of Pendennis, but by the obscurity with which he seems to have cloaked so many of his own comings and goings. Beyond the farcical platonic affairs he conducted with a married Englishwoman and with a young New York socialite in his later life, it is difficult in the extreme to know what was going on under the cover of extreme busyness. Thackeray was almost constantly on the move around Europe, when he wasn't similarly active in Britain and the United States, but one can only wonder what he actually did during his endless visits to France, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. Comfortable they can't have been - the latter chapters make grim reading as his life was made miserable from complaints arising from earlier venereal infection. The overall impression, for all the friendships, literary and other, is of a sad and unfulfilled individual. The writer of this biography is to be complimented for bringing Thackeray so well to life, not just through the formal biographical sections, but via a few fictional vignettes in which third-party observers comment on Thackeray at various stages of his life. One in particular - of Thackeray and his mentally unstable wife as viewed by a French waiter - is poignant in the extreme, a small masterpiece in its own right.<br />(Shortly after penning the above, I stumbled on a tattered late-nineteenth century edition of a collection of Thackeray's marginal drawings in books he possessed in his lifetime.  This was in a street market in Britain and I picked it up for the equivalent of a quarter. The volume is totally fascinating and wholly complementary to the Taylor biography. The most chilling detail however is a pen sketch, made in Paris in the early 1830's, of a young woman attired in male clothing for a ball. It corresponds with the description Thackeray gave of an English governess who had embraced the Bohemian life - and if Taylor's surmise is correct she may be the individual who infected him initially, to dreadful later effect. The coincidence of reading the biography and finding this volume so serendipitously was remarkable in the extreme)	2001-10-02
US	50891381	RROK3HLU6L94E	0786709103	957270506	Thackeray: The Life of a Literary Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent biography - but Thackeray remains an enigma!	Even after reading this very competent and entertaining biography Thackeray remains an enigma. He wrote one novel, Vanity Fair, which ranks with the greatest in English and another, Esmond, can be argued as the finest and most convincing historical novel in the language. Pendennis and The Newcomes are still enjoyable today and Barry Lyndon has a cynical realism that makes it a more chilling work than the elegiac cinematic masterpiece that Stanley Kubrick made from it. Yet much of the remainder of his work is tedious to the modern reader (this reviewer must be one of the few to have read The Virginians cover to cover and has no desire to repeat the experience). As this biography details so clearly, Thackeray regarded writing as necessary drudgery for much of his career and never ceased to look for alternative sources of income. Today this shows through in his work to an extent that may not have been obvious to his contemporaries, who read much of it in the form of magazine contributions and monthly parts. The inevitable comparison, today as in his lifetime, is with Dickens and the difference is primarily one of character. Thackeray, for all his mildly satirical stance, remained a man uncritical of, even content with, the world he lived in, incapable of feeling the indignation with which Dickens viewed social abuses, even if he seldom proposed concrete solutions for them. At its best this tolerance of things as they were led to Thackeray's greatest gift - his ability to portray real and credible characters, often flawed and weak at the same time as they are well-meaning, loveable and fundamentally decent. It also means however that his work is largely devoid of any larger message and that it so rooted in his time and culture that much of it loses universal appeal. This theme of essentially uncritical acceptance of his society - and to a great extent also of others such as the Western Europe and United States of his time (the latter on the brink of the Civil War; compare the account in this book of his attitude to slavery with Dickens' honest indignation in &quot;American Notes&quot;) - is perhaps linked to the somewhat brutishly sybaritic attitude which is a disturbing theme through the biography. Thackeray's contemptuous attitude the prostitutes he consorted with in his early life, and perhaps later, and his acceptance of women and slaves as beings to be used and patronised, strikes a very unpleasant note, even allowing for the standards of his time. This also as echoes in his slow disengagement from his insane wife. Thackeray himself lamented that the cultural mores of his age prevented a fictional hero being presented with the honesty with which Fielding portrayed Tom Jones. This is borne out not only by his treatment of Pendennis, but by the obscurity with which he seems to have cloaked so many of his own comings and goings. Beyond the farcical platonic affairs he conducted with a married Englishwoman and with a young New York socialite in his later life, it is difficult in the extreme to know what was going on under the cover of extreme busyness. Thackeray was almost constantly on the move around Europe, when he wasn't similarly active in Britain and the United States, but one can only wonder what he actually did during his endless visits to France, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. Comfortable they can't have been - the latter chapters make grim reading as his life was made miserable from complaints arising from earlier venereal infection. The overall impression, for all the friendships, literary and other, is of a sad and unfulfilled individual. The writer of this biography is to be complimented for bringing Thackeray so well to life, not just through the formal biographical sections, but via a few fictional vignettes in which third-party observers comment on Thackeray at various stages of his life. One in particular - of Thackeray and his mentally unstable wife as viewed by a French waiter - is poignant in the extreme, a small masterpiece in its own right.<br />(A postscript to the above is that directly after penning it I picked up in a street market in Britain, for a few pence and quite by accident, a bedraggled book from the 1890s containing copies of the drawings Thackeray sketched in the margins of his books from a young age onwards. Quite chillingly, one of them shows a young woman in man's garb at a Bohemian celebration in Paris in the 1830's. One feels that this may well be the English Governess described in this way in Taylor's biography and whom he suspects may have infected Thackeray with such ultimately disasterous consequences. For me an amazing coincidence!)	2001-09-27
US	50891381	R8DFB0LELD9PO	0312206550	310468384	The Last Voyage of the Karluk: A Survivor's Memoir of Arctic Disaster	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A classic of first-hand adventure narrative.	A totally gripping true-life adventure, written in 1976 by an 88-year old Glasgow schoolmaster who, prior to serving as an officer in WW1, was one of the survivors of  a horrifically mismanaged Arctic expedition. The &quot;Karluk&quot; was one of three vessels involved in an exploration of the Canadian Arctic in 1913, master-minded by one Vilhajalmur Stefansson, a monomaniac fixated on the idea of the Arctic as a friendly environment in which abundant food could be soured. In the event however none of the expedition members received any relevant training in survival skills before setting out. The ships' crews did not expect to winter in the Arctic while the scientific staff, of whom McKinlay was one, were almost all young men straight from University, with no previous Arctic experience. Steffanson's callousness in deserting the Karluk once it was ice-bound, and starting an independent five-year exploration journey without making any attempt to arrange rescue of its crew, almost beggars comprehension. McKinlay's story of misery, squalor, sickness, death, cowardice and heroism over the following year is at times depressing reading, but is always gripping. Of the Karluk's complement of twenty five, eleven died following the break-up of the ship in the ice north of Siberia, in the attempts to reach land and during the subsequent struggle to stay alive under conditions of extreme privation. That any survived is due to the heroism of the Karluk's captain, Robert Bartlett, who with one Eskimo companion managed to reach the Siberian mainland to seek help while the other survivors attempted to eke out an existence on the bleak Wrangel Island. The author's account is understated as regard his own role but it was obviously critical in maintaining morale and cohesion in an ill-assorted group with no real basis for camaraderie and discipline. It is the lack of these two factors that McKinlay found the great difference with his later, albeit terrible, experiences in Flanders, making the Wrangel Island episode incomparably worse. The writing is simple, spare and elegant and sweeps the reader along. It is the narrative of a decent, courageous man and it deserves to live on as a classic or adventure and exploration.	2001-07-16
US	50891381	R16DPI77VNO1CP	0805031847	291556436	The Final Act: The Roads to Waterloo	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A splendidly readable account of the drama of 1814-15	Though the abdication, exile, return and ultimate fall of Napoleon is well covered by a vast range of both popular and scholarly histories, less is available to the general reader on the political and diplomatic manoeuvrings of 1814-15, usually under the generic title of \\"The Congress of Vienna.\\" This colourful historical narrative, which is enlivened with countless vignettes and anecdotes, brings the whole period to life. While Napoleon, for once, is a mainly background figure, albeit a menacing one, three larger than life characters dominate the story - Metternich, Tallyrand and Alexander I - but it is to Mr.Dallas's credit that he breathes life and interest into the fourth main player, Castlereagh, a much less charismatic personality. The secondary cast includes Britain's Prince Regent, France's Louis XVIII, the monarchs of Prussia and Austria, Wellington and Blucher, Austria's spy-network (with the ace spy still today identified only as \\"**\\"\\" ),a host of mistresses and courtesans (often closely related, despite differing political affiliations) and a plethora of diplomats, while the walk-ons range from Ludwig van Beethoven to minor Austrian civil servants. A surprise is the extent to which the gouty and corpulent Louis XVIII, briefly returned from his travels, only to be sent packing again within months, emerges as curiously attractive and sympathetic. As in his splendid biography of Clemanceau, Mr.Dallas excels in breathing life and interest into bygone crises - notably, in this case, the near collision between Austria, Priussia and Russia over the fate of Saxon. A particular triumph of the book is the extent to which the climax of Waterloo is not allowed to dominate the narrative to the detriment of less well-known events. For the general reader interested in the Napoleon period this book is indeed a treat - highly recommended.	2001-07-10
US	50891381	R2IH87UJEGSFWY	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yet another Review - just because it's splendid!	When 332 people before me have written reviews it seems a little superfluous to add another! I am forced to do so however out of sheer indebtedness to the author for producing this marvellously, perversely enjoyable book that has become a favourite - probably a perennial one - of my entire family. We fell in love with Savannah when we visited it while retracing Sherman's March to the Sea some years ago - having come to know cities intimately in every continent except Antarctica we quickly voted Savannah \\"the most beautiful small city on Earth\\" - and in the process we came to know \\"The Garden\\". Its only weakness as a book is that it ever ends - one wishes this kaleidoscope of life, vice, virtue, eccentricity and colour to go on and on. The characters are unforgettable, the writing delightful and its is difficult to peruse it for any length of time in the presence of another without starting to read out loud. This is the book that a Thackery liberated from the restrictions of his time would have written had he visited the Georgian city in the 1980's. Wonderful  - beg borrow or even steal it (as no doubt some of the characters would do) - but read it!	2001-06-21
US	50891381	R1C7Y0FBNX2FW3	0195205022	157783031	War and Society in Europe, 1870-1970	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Excellent Ovverview of the Subject	In this survey of the interaction between military, political and social forces in the hundred years that started with the rise of Bismarkian Prussia, a good overview is provided of the major trends and developments, these being well-anchored in the main historical events. A strength of the book is that it preserves the correct balance between detail and overview - enough detail to maintain interest and colour, enough overview to ensure that developments are always seen in the wider historical, cultural and political context. A criticism of the book is however that by an excessive focus on the European scene it underplays the extent to which developments elsewhere - most notably the American Civil War and the Russo-Japanese War - could have profoundly influenced the course of European Military and Political thinking, had they been better analysed, with incalculable consequences for the conduct of World War One. One also notes how the indications as to the global potential of the United States which arose from the Spanish-American War seem to as much ignored today as they were at the time. These minor criticisms aside, the book would provide an excellent introduction to anyone undertaking a study of Modern European history and seeking pointers for further areas to explore as regards the impact of military developments.	2001-06-21
US	50891381	R2D3GKM7Y7K4Y0	0140266534	345400706	The Northern Crusades: Second Edition	Books	4	47	47	N	N	Welcome light on an obscure period	This is a very readable account of a subject largely inaccessible to the general reader. It covers the conquest and conversion of the pagan tribes of the Southern and Eastern Baltic Coasts from the thirteenth to the fifteenth century, the extension of German civilisation north-eastwards and the collision, and ultimate uneasy equilibrium between Latin and Orthodox Christianity in the area. The surprise of the book, for this reader at least, is the fact that the Dark Ages endured in this corner of Europe well into Medieval times, and that Paganism was still a vibrant force there almost until the period of the Renaissance. A significant strength of the book is the introductory section, which provides a fascinating overview of the peoples and cultures of the area at the opening of the period covered, and this is built upon in greater detail, when necessary in more detailed accounts of specific campaigns. The linkage to the overall Crusading ideal is well handled and though the transformation of the Teutonic Knights from a warrior order in Frankish Palestine to a frontier force skilled in forest, river and marshland warfare is a dominant theme, the roles of the Danes, Swedes and Russians, not to mention a host of Baltic tribes, receive equal attention. The mechanics of the warfare of the period, including the particular constraints imposed by climate and terrain, are well handled. In summary - a splendidly informative work that cast light on an obscure period that bred baleful myths with dire consequences in more recent times.	2001-05-22
US	50891381	R2JLFG0QG2FZBH	0786708298	178500736	Kitchener: Architect of Victory, Artisan of Peace	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A life of enviable adventure.	Though it is now possible to recognise Kitchener as the architect of a British victory that he did not live to see in the Great War, he has often come across as a stiff, remote and unimaginative figure. This first volume of a two-part biography goes far to change that impression and portrays Kitchener as a sensitive man of high intelligence, capable of great affection, loyalty and kindness. His apparent shyness is here revealed to have been a result of chronic eye problems, which he was largely successful in covering up, while a serious facial wound left him with an almost invariably severe impression. A delightful photograph in this book, which is new to this reviewer at least, showing Kitchener beaming as he is reunited in Britain with the Cameron Highlanders who provided his personal escort in South Africa, reveals a totally different side to the conventional picture. <br />This biography makes for easy reading - and is a suitable companion piece to Mr.Pollock's excellent earlier work on that other great Royal Engineer, Charles Gordon, Kitchener's idol. The life here described is one of enviable adventure, admirable courage and daunting responsibility. Kitchener emerges not just as an ideal engineer and manager, but as a man of considerable daring and initiative, with an uncanny ability to pick up languages quickly, to understand alien cultures, and to evoke loyalty from peoples of widely differing racial and religious backgrounds. His diplomatic skills are also seen to be of a high order, as exemplified by his handling of the Fashoda incident and his efforts to bring the Boer War to a negotiated settlement. Somewhat of a surprise is the extent to which strong but unostentatious religious convictions underpinned his behaviour. A virtue of this biography is that Kitchener is portrayed as a man of his time, and judged as such, without projection of twenty-first century values on him - typical being the manner in which speculations by later biographers as to possible homosexuality are robustly dismissed in an appendix. This is one of those rare biographies that one would have wished to have been considerably longer. One would have welcomed considerably more detail on the more minor battles in the Sudan, such as Firket and Um Diyaykarat. This small gripe apart, this book is a splendid treat for aficionados of the Victorian period and one looks forward with impatience to the second volume.	2001-05-22
US	50891381	R162LDDIE35CBE	0393313085	805079507	The Rage of the Vulture (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Powerful, disturbing and totally absorbing.	This novelist's themes are invariably unusual and gripping, reminiscent in some ways of Joseph Conrad in their relentless - and uncomfortable - exploration of the darker recesses of the human spirit. \\"The Rage of the Vulture\\" is set in the false dawn of the Young Turk revolution that promised so much, as it swept away the tyranny of tyranny of Abdul Hamid and which offered a brief glimpse of ethnic harmony before plunging the Ottoman Empire into yet more terrible chaos and genocide. With spare but telling detail Unsworth portrays a society, and individuals, poisoned and warped by hatred, cruelty and fear and incapable of breaking the cycle of perpetuation. The main character, an English officer on secondment in Istanbul, is no less maimed spiritually - and ultimately physically - by this unending tyranny than the most depraved torturers of the dying regime. The most memorable feature of the novel is however the extent to which the malign, self-loathing and all but invisible personality of Abdul Hamid dominates the action - and the city - from his curious bourgeois villa retreat - one hesitates to say Palace - high above the Bosphorous. By a curious turn of fate I read this novel some three months before being sent, quite unexpectedly, to live and work in Turkey and to spend long periods in Istanbul.  It had already made a strong impression on me - and this became even stronger as I explored many of the locales of the action. The phrase \\"the banality of evil\\" is horribly appropriate as one spends an hour at the same kiosk in Abdul Hamid's gardens where, insisting on the farce of being incognito, he would insist on paying for his own glass of tea before hurrying back to indulge in his hobby of cabinet making, order a massacre or allow the cries of his menagerie beasts to drown out the screams of wretches being interrogated close by. Mr.Unsworth melds this background very effectively into the plot of his powerful and disturbing book, which is not only absorbing to readbut impossible to forget.	2001-04-23
US	50891381	R3UED5QD5CESNU	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Powerful, immediate and disturbing - a wonderful novel	This epic of the eighteenth century British Slave Trade works at two levels. The first is as a straight and exciting narrative of the different stances to it of the two main characters, one who profits from it, and is at last morally enslaved by it himself while the other recognises its evil and attempts his own ultimately futile protest against it.  At the second level the novel serves as a meditation on the nature of greed - the \\"Sacred Hunger\\" of the title, and the extent to which it can become a justification for any excess. Mr.Unsworth's genius in this book is however that the does not adapt a simplistic moralising tone but writes with understanding of the society that produced this abuse, and shows how potentially decent people could be drawn, unthinkingly, into the position of profiteers and exploiters. One does not get a sense here of modern perceptions and values being projected back on to an earlier age - the weakness which destroys so much serious fiction set in the past - and the characters' behaviour and attitudes, whether sympathetic to the Slave Trade or not , are consistent with those of eighteenth century British society. Like other novels of Unsworth's, this work has many echoes of Conrad, in its depiction of the depths to which humanity can so quickly plunge once the restraints of law and custom are relaxed. Though gripping from the first page it is  disturbing work and the vividness of its plot and imagery will not quickly leave the reader. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
US	50891381	RJ3Y1VIWTHAUL	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful, immediate and disturbing - a wonderful novel	This epic of the eighteenth century British Slave Trade works at two levels. The first is as a straight and exciting narrative of the different stances to it of the two main characters, one who profits from it, and is at last morally enslaved by it himself while the other recognises its evil and attempts his own ultimately futile protest against it.  At the second level the novel serves as a meditation on the nature of greed - the \\"Sacred Hunger\\" of the title, and the extent to which it can become a justification for any excess. Mr.Unsworth's genius in this book is however that the does not adapt a simplistic moralising tone but writes with understanding of the society that produced this abuse, and shows how potentially decent people could be drawn, unthinkingly, into the position of profiteers and exploiters. One does not get a sense here of modern perceptions and values being projected back on to an earlier age - the weakness which destroys so much serious fiction set in the past - and the characters' behaviour and attitudes, whether sympathetic to the Slave Trade or not , are consistent with those of eighteenth century British society. Like other novels of Unsworth's, this work has many echoes of Conrad, in its depiction of the depths to which humanity can so quickly plunge once the restraints of law and custom are relaxed. Though gripping from the first page it is  disturbing work and the vividness of its plot and imagery will not quickly leave the reader. Very highly recommended.	2001-04-23
US	50891381	R3NQHU5UNHZLG9	0679761667	716949423	A Way in the World: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The work of a Master in his prime - wonderful!	This is an unusual - perhaps even unique - variety of novel, having at first glance no discernible structure and seeming like a series of meditations on the experience of West-Indian colonialism, linked by personal reminiscences of the author. It is only when the book is finished that the masterful integration of the complexities of plot, descriptions and reflections become fully obvious. Much of the work can be seen as an extended series of imagined scenes and dialogues inspired by the dominant themes of the writer's earlier non-fiction work \\"The Loss of El Dorado\\", itself a powerful and searing account of the discovery of Trinidad, its capture from the Spaniards by the British, its failed role as a springboard for incitement of revolution on the South American mainland, and its transformation into a slave society. Whereas the earlier work was strictly factual the form of the later novel allows Naipaul to use the full power of his imagination to visualise the motivations of historical players such as Raleigh and Miranda and their reactions to specific situations. There are a host of other characters however, all probably with a basis in actuality, all are realised with the same degree of keen, indeed merciless, perception that characterises Naipaul's fiction at its best. The scenes of action shift rapidly in both time and locale - from the Elizabethan age, on through the turmoil of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods, right through the twentieth century to our own day, with Trinidad, Venezuela, London and an unnamed African colony (Uganda?) providing the backdrop. Those who know these societies today will be impressed by the uncanny accuracy with which their very \\"feel\\" is portrayed. This is the work of a master in his prime - wonderful!	2001-04-23
US	50891381	R3PNDJUWV73E35	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Clarity imposed on complexity - Superb!	In one splendid volume which reads with the pace and interest of a well-written thriller, Mr.Glenny does the near impossible, conveying the complexities of two centuries of Balkan history with clarity and grace. The scope is breathtaking and no important themes - and few lesser ones - are left uncovered, with explanations not provided not only of their internal Balkan context but of their relationships to the greater European picture. Notwithstanding the fact that the overall story is a depressing one, with hatred, greed and massacre as defining features of almost every decade covered, and with not a single ethnic group or nationality emerging with credit, the power of the writing is such as to carry the reader along and to enjoy - if the word can ever be appropriate in this connection - the sweep of the narrative. Having read this book once straight through however, the reader interested in the area will find themselves returning to it repeatedly to check specific facts. Its particular value is the extent to which it takes events that are peripheral to the wider course of European History, and which are treated in isolation in so many other works, and dropped once their relevance to the larger picture fades, and instead follows them through in detail and explores their significance to the sweep of Balkan history. This is one of the few books of its type that one would have desired to have been longer, rather than shorter, and one would have wished for a yet more extended treatment of major events such as the First and Second Balkan Wars. On only one point would the present reviewer take issue with the writer. This is in relation to the thesis stated in the introduction that the role of the Western Powers had been a greater factor than hitherto recognised in the hopeless cycle of revenge and atrocity that characterises modern Balkan history. Mr.Glenny's masterful account of the greed, intolerance and self-destructive blindness of the societies he portrays is its ownrefutation of this contention. This observation aside, this is a superb piece of accessible narrative history.	2001-04-23
US	50891381	R189AJVL1655IM	0393317706	276874417	After Hannibal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining, readable but not Unsworths best.	Though entertaining - and deadly realistic in its portrayal of human weakness at its most mean - this is not the best of Mr.Unsworth's fiction. Its portrayal of the lives and struggles of isolated expatriates in Tuscany, and of their exploitation by an avaricious attorney, has much of the comic about it, and the observations are never less than sharply ironic and amusing, but the underlying theme is of tragedy, of small lives blighted by failures of spirit and generosity. There is no redeeming feature in this story of gloom and petty misery and the larger themes that dominate much of Mr.Unsworth's other fiction are missing here. It is a capable and readable work - but by the time one is half-way through one longs for something more. This said however, Mr.Unsworth in even his lesser work - the category this undoubtedly falls into - is still a better writer than many who are higher acclaimed and the aficionado of his work should not give this a miss.	2001-04-23
US	50891381	R143H2IVDGHR8C	0688042686	780375891	Barbarossa: The Russian-German Conflict, 1941-45	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Modern Classic of Historical Narrative	I first read this splendid one-volume history of the Russo-German conflict of WW2 more than thirty years ago and its immediacy, masterful simplification of complex campaigns and operations, colourful evocations of heroism and cowardice and outright pathos have never left me. This is not a detailed history and the concentration is on a few major, but decisive, campaigns but these are covered with such verve that the reader is quite likely to be fascinated by the subject for the rest of their lives, and to seek out ever more thereafter. Though meticulous in his descriptions and evaluations, Clark is never a neutral observer - and this is probably what makes the book so totally unforgettable even down to individual episodes. His judgements on men can be devastating - his summary of the clownish ineptitude and outdated heroics of Budenny is as succinct and merciless as anything in Gibbon - and his accounts of epic-scale actions never fail to reflect the human cost. The image of hundreds of thousands of Russian prisoners trudging towards starvation, slave labour and medical experiments after the great 1941encirclement battles in the Ukraine, and of isolated pockets fighting to the last man, as loudspeakers relayed the exhortations of Stalin, will stay with the reader forever. Clark's account of Stalingrad was powerful enough to send my wife and myself to the city itself within months of reading the book - a powerful and unforgettable experience. Clark did not just give us the feel the nightmare of street fighting across entire square miles of blazing ruins and factories, but he helped us visualise the abject misery of the Sixth Army's entombed survivors as, in the unlikely surroundings of a rebuilt department store's basement, we found the spot where von Paulus surrendered. Simultaneously, we were conscious that somewhere to the west that von Manstein's relief forces were stalled, supplies packed in trucks that included even British vehicles captured at Dunkirk eighteenmonths before. By such details is history brought alive. The section on Kursk could almost stand alone as a modern Illiad and description of the destruction of Army Group Centre, and of the final battles in Germany itself, conveys the full horror of what it means to be part of a hitherto coherent organism in terminal collapse. I came to this book again when my daughter asked me to recommend an introduction to the subject - and from her enthusiasm, three decades on, I sensed that in this book we probably have a timeless classic. Other books deal with the Great Patriotic War in greater detail - commander's accounts, of which the best is probably von Manstein's \\"Lost Victories\\", war-correspondent's accounts like Alexander Werth's \\"Russia at War\\" or Curzio Malapartre's searing \\"The Volga rises in Europe\\", modern reassessments of specific campaigns like Anthony Beevor's superb \\"Stalingrad\\" and popular histories like Harrison Salisbury's \\"The Thousand Days\\" - but none can equal this as an introduction and as an overview. By the sweep of the narrative, by the elegance of the prose, by the power of the imagery and, above all, by the sheer humanity of tone, this marvellous history justifies Alan Clark's entire life. A wonderful book.	2001-04-10
US	50891381	RNBLRXDZSNI1X	0393321177	294087031	Losing Nelson (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Deserves to become a modern classic.	This absorbing novel works at two levels. At the most obvious it provides a quite chilling portrayal into an obsessive personality's accelerating retreat from reality, describing it with wit, insight and sympathy. Beyond this however it provides an extended meditation on the contradictions and conflicts associated with the gifts of genius and heroism. The subject of the protagonist's fixation is Horatio Nelson, whose biography he has been writing over many years. The crisis of the novel is brought about by his inability to reconcile Nelson's brilliance and inspired leadership as a naval commander with his pettiness ashore, with the crunch coming as regards Nelson's disputed, but probable, betrayal of his word as regards treatment of surrendered Neapolitan revolutionaries in 1799. The great strength of the novel is the way in which Nelson's career prior to and after this turning point is dealt with so rationally by the main character, and the reasoned way in which he deals with the adverse and pedestrian criticism of his hero by the prosaically-minded but kindly typist who is assisting him, thus throwing his inability to cope with the facts of Neapolitan episode into even sharper contrast. This is however only one of the many contrasts that dominate the story. Another is between the excitement and dash of Nelson's life afloat and the wretched biographer's claustrophobic existence in a modern England that has seldom been portrayed in terms more grey. Within Nelson's own life the contrasts continue, between his masterly grasp of the application of seapower at all its levels and the confusion and squalor of his private life and between the clarity of his judgement under extreme stress in battle and the pathetic vanity that dominates his behaviour ashore. Despite its sombre subject matter this novel abounds with quiet humour, which includes some rich self-parody, as with the frustrated biographer's indignation about the presence at a lecture of his of a &quot;writer whohad just published a long novel about the eighteenth century slave trade&quot;. In summary, a splendidly memorable and thought provoking novel, well up to the standard of Mr.Unsworth's &quot;Sacred Hunger&quot; and &quot;Rage of the Vulture&quot; and, like them, unflinching in its confrontation with the darkest aspects of the human spirit.	2001-03-19
US	50891381	RRE5IDZVC6XI2	0029334357	641946596	Lenin: A New Biography	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Anatomy of a Bleak Victory	This volume appears to be an abridged version of a much longer work in Russian and though it is labelled as a biography is much less linear in format and chronology than one normally expects from this designation. This is however no drawback and around the main developments in Lenin's life the writer frequently jumps forward in time, and occasionally backwards, to explore the consequences, or antecedents, of specific decisions, policies and actions of Lenin and his circle. A degree of familiarity with the revolutionary period is assumed - not unreasonably in the case of a Russian readership - and a Western reader coming fresh to the subject might more profitably start elsewhere - &quot;A People's Tragedy&quot; by Orlando Figges being a safe bet. The author writes from the position of a disillusioned disciple and, as a Kremlin insider in both the Late-Soviet and Post-Soviet periods, he gives valuable insights into the difficulties of breaking away from orthodoxies of thought built up over decades - even a character as courageous as Gorbachev is seen from minutes of a 1983 Central Committee meeting to be unable to cope with the challenge of a mildly dissident stage-play. The book draws heavily on Soviet archives that were secret to the early 1990s and, though one must have some uncertainty as to how selectively the author has utilised them, the overall argument that there is a considerably greater degree of continuity between Leninist and Stalinist attitudes policies than has hitherto been recognised is developed very powerfully. The writer anchors Lenin's personality, and the development of his thought, in his family background, in the Russia of the late nineteenth century, and in the artificial world of political exile in the years preceding the revolution. The latter period comes across as Conrad's &quot;Under Western Eyes&quot; made flesh and one becomes uncomfortably aware that the endless theorising, sectarian infighting and pamphleteering of those years, conducted in conditions of comfort bordering on luxury, and divorced from any practical appreciation of actual conditions in Russia, made a later resort to extremist measures, not only easy, but perhaps inevitable. Brutality of thought and callousness in decision making comes easiest to those who have seen neither privation not bloodshed at first hand - and indeed one is struck by the extent to which Lenin managed to insulate himself personally from such realities to the very end of his life. The mechanics of establishing power and winning the Civil War are well described, with insights into personalities little known in the West providing many fascinating digressions on the way. Despite the horror, waste and tragedy involved in the Bolshevik victory however one is left with the disturbing reflection: &quot;What was the Alternative?&quot; - not just in the moral but in the pragmatic sense. The period between the February and October Revolutions had thrown up neither vision nor leadership of any lasting power and the various White factions that emerged from 1918 onwards were equally bankrupt in both competence and ideology. Against this background the triumph of Leninism - bleak, clear-sighted and single-minded - seems to have been all but inevitable.	2001-03-19
US	50891381	R29QNZUUMNZ7MW	1557509719	663530006	The Rules of the Game: Jutland and British Navel Command	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Splendid - a historical treasure house !	This is a quite epic narrative history, which reads with the facility and pace of a well-constructed thriller. It is at once a social history of the Royal Navy that spans the Ironclad, Dreadnought and Great War eras, a dissertation on naval signalling and fleet-handling in a period of unprecedented technical innovation, a reflection on the challenges and stresses of leadership and a thrilling account of the Battle of Jutland from a British perspective. The book opens with a quite thrilling account of the opening phase of the battle, in which technical and human complexities are treated with equal aplomb, then breaks off - leaving the reader all but white knuckled - at the moment the German High Seas Fleet appears on the scene and forces Beatty's Battle Cruiser Force and Fifth Battle Squadron to turn northwards. It might seem an anti-climax to be diverted from this drama to the controversies that dominated the Navy in the Late-Victorian and Edwardian periods but this part of the story, with its splendidly delineated cast of larger-than-life characters, is no less gripping, especially in view of its ultimate relevance to command and control decisions at the potentially climactic encounter at Jutland. The third part of the book returns to the battle itself, with the arrival of Jellicoe's Battle Fleet, the main clash and the subsequent night action and German escape. The complexities of naval manoeuvre have seldom been so clearly portrayed in print, with excellent use being made of simple diagrams for illustration, and colour and pace are lent to the narrative by many well-chosen extracts from survivor's accounts, ranging from the light-hearted to the outright ghastly. This was indeed a battle where there was no mid-point between unscathed survival and horrific injury. The story is told almost exclusively from the Royal Navy viewpoint - that indeed of a British participant - and, thought this adds great immediacy, readers will need to look elsewhere for a more detailedaccount of the German movements. The final part of the book is in many ways the saddest, detailing the recriminations, self-justifications and personal tragedies involving the main participants after the war. A postscript that deals with the problem of intelligence overload as a purely Naval concern will be found by many readers to have singular relevance to large modern organisations employing E-Mail! This is, in summary, a quite magnificent piece of work and a delight for enthusiasts of naval history. The only mild criticism that might be made is that the writer has omitted to discuss how experience from the Spanish-American and Russo-Japanese Wars might have influenced Royal Naval thinking on visual signalling and fleet control under battle conditions. Japanese experience might be assumed to have been of particular relevance in view of the strong Royal Navy influence on Japanese naval development - and of the presence on Togo's flagship at Tsu-Shima of Captain William Packenham, who later commanded the 2nd. Battle Cruiser Squadron at Jutland. This minor gripe aside one can but long for more from the pen of Mr.Gordon.	2001-03-19
US	50891381	R2Z9VOQF3JZJKN	0935526714	501032733	Success to the Brave (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 15)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Enjoyable - but the not best of the Bolithos	It would surely have been over-optimistic of Richard Bolitho to have expected that the brief period of the Peace of Amiens might have afforded him a degree of rest and recreation - and, sure enough, he finds himself embroiled in treachery, dilemmas and fights to the death in the West Indies and the North Atlantic. There is action aplenty in this story - almost too much of it - and compared with many of the earlier works in the saga the plot seems a little contrived. Though not the best of the series it is however always entertaining and the usual cast of characters make their appearance and act and develop credibly. Affecionados of Bolitho cannot afford to miss it and will look forward to further defeats of Bonaparte's global ambitions as renewed hostilities gather pace.	2001-02-19
US	50891381	R3EF6WV7W5VIC9	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Idiocy, greed and heroism at a historical transition point	This early work of David McCullough has all the pace, colour and excitement of his later works, even though the theme is much more concentrated in time and action. In contrast to the engineering triumphs that celebrated in &quot;The Great Bridge&quot; and &quot;The Path between the Seas&quot;, the subject matter here is a piece of outright engineering idiocy, an inevitable disaster waiting to happen for several years. Cupidity and callousness also play a major part in the story and two of the players with the more disreputable roles, Andrew Carnegie and Henry Frick, will go on to even worse ones in the Homestead Strike, a few years after the events described here. McCullough's book first appeared in the 1960s, when the last of the survivors were still alive and this lends an immediacy to the story which still persists. Excellent use is made in the narrative of contemporary accounts and testimonies, with the author playing the role of judicious referee where contradictions or exaggerations may be in question. The pace and colour of the writing draws in the reader from the first page and by the time the dam is breached and the massive wall of water is roaring down the high-walled Conemaugh valley towards the doomed city it is quite impossible to lay the book aside. The individual stories of loss and survival, of heroism, cowardice, greed and sacrifice are blended to make an indelible impression. At the end one can only marvel that so few died in the catastrophe and that the ultimately responsible parties got off so lightly. This book deserves to stand as a minor classic, commemorating not only the disaster itself but also providing a freeze-frame picture of the United States at the point of transition from Gilded Age to Industrial Giant. A very memorable book - highly recommended.	2001-02-19
US	50891381	R2C3ZWSEZEV0W7	037575220X	696465736	Ulysses S. Grant: Soldier & President (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	One of history's most enigmatic personalities.	This life of Grant is written with grace and verve and it sweeps the reader along from the first page - indeed it is hard to see how any single volume biography could accomplish more. At the end of it however - as at the end of all writings on and by Grant - one is still left bemused by the contradictions in this ostensibly simple, but in reality enormously complex personality. Grant did no less than win the most complex war yet fought by humanity, managing (a word that immediately comes to mind in regard to Grant) in the process unprecedented numbers of troops and mastering the deployment of new weapons systems - such as the river gun-boats - that emerged during the conflict. His tactical abilities grew to cope with exponentially rising sizes of forces and his strategic thinking was distinguished by clarity, courage and ruthlessness. His leadership was such as to carry both officers and men with him in acceptance of brutal solutions to terrible dilemmas. His embodiment of the Churchillian ideal of magnanimity in victory laid the foundations for the re-United States. Few men have carried such a heavy burden with such decency and generosity: power did not make him arrogant nor success dehumanise him. The Mexican War had already given indications of these qualities and yet after it Grant lapsed into virtual failure and demoralisation. The section of this book dealing with the years immediately preceding the Civil War are painful to read, offering an almost too-close insight into the near despair of a decent man unable - perhaps too proud - to find a role in a thrusting, money-grubbing and cut-throat civilian society. Only five years separate the almost penniless failure's humiliating appeal to his father for a job in the family leather store from the surrender-negotiation at Appomattox Court House, and three years more saw him President, albeit reluctantly. In the story of the White House years - and beyond - there is a strong impression of a man bored, part amused, part disgusted, by the pettiness of the scene around him. The set-backs and scandals of his administrations, none of which involved any hint of personal advantage to himself, seem ultimately to stem from an inner abdication. One gains a strong sense of a man who has confronted the absolute and who afterwards finds the relative unworthy of his energies or passions. Throughout this period he nevertheless continued to evoke huge loyalty and a third Presidential term could have been his in 1880, after Hayes' tenure, had he chosen to commit himself fully - but once again there is that impression of a man bored and distant. Only in the last terrible months of his life, enduring financial ruin and hideous pain, does Grant again rise to heroic status, not only producing his memoirs in extremis, but doing so with an elegance that make them an American classic. Nothing is simple in this story - not Grant's emotional and family life, his struggle with alcohol, his politics, his innate integrity - and least of all the origins of his military genius. <br />This complex, absorbing and inspiring story is well told by Mr.Perret, who finds the right balance between all major elements. The events, excitingly told though they may be, are not allowed to dominate, and Grant's personality is at all times at the centre of the narrative. Quotations are well chosen to enliven the text and there are dozens of illuminating vignettes to add colour and immediacy. The Civil War years are obviously at the heart of the book and Mr.Perret finds the correct balance between overview and detail in handling Grant's vast campaigns. A minor complaint must however be the shortage and low quality of the maps, essential for a work even at this level. A final point is that readers who come to Grant through this volume will delight in &quot;The Armies of U.S.Grant&quot; by James R.Arnold, which traces Grant's growth as a commander in considerable detail and which is also colourful, readable, and enlivened by memorable quotes from Grant and his contemporaries.	2001-02-19
US	50891381	R2ZPRNQL6VCE5C	0935526706	423182698	A Tradition of Victory (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 14)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Tough Going for Bolitho in the Bay of Biscay.	. In the months before the Peace of Amiens provides a short breathing space, Richard Bolitho takes command of a blockading squadron off the Loire Estuary and, as always, is soon in the thick of action, launching attacks on French harbours and shipping. Napoleonic information technology, in the form of land-based semaphore signalling, provides a significant complication and Bolitho not only loses a ship, and a friend, but falls prisoner to the enemy. At this point one feared a repeat of the plot of Forrester's classic &quot;Flying Colours&quot; but Kent knows better and provides a satisfyingly different twist. The story is full of the usual action and accurate period detail. As with all the Bolitho books, much pleasure is also provided by the steady development of the other familiar characters such as Herrick, Allday, Pascoe and Inch. Now in his mid-forties, Bolitho has aged convincingly through the series and the relationships between himself and his long-time friends are depicted with considerable realism and charm. Another thoroughly enjoyable read for aficionados.	2000-12-14
US	50891381	RW1OH443VQTIB	067145711X	7859309	The Great Bridge: The Epic Story of the Building of the Brooklyn Bridge	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A classic mix of engineering, social and medical history.	It would be difficult to overpraise this splendid book - and indeed one might have thought it a unique achievement had McCullough not pulled off the trick equally well in &quot;The path Between the Seas&quot;. The main theme may be the conception, design and construction of the Brooklyn Bridge, but into this are woven absorbing accounts of the social and political history of Gilded Age New York, the development of the technologies of underwater-foundations and of cable manufacture and spinning, the agonising quest to understand and treat the phenomenon of &quot;the bends', the challenge of managing a project of a size unprecedented since classical times and, above all, the characters of a remarkable collection of men and women who were undauntedly resourceful in taking on the impossible. The story may be dominated by two engineers, the Roeblings, father and son, and by the latter's formidable wife, but a host of other fascinating personalities are brought to life, ranging from audaciously corrupt politicians, through noble and heroic army officers, down to individual technicians and workers. Mr.McCullough has a special gift for explaining technical complexities in simple and fascinating terms - this applies not only to the construction of the bridge and its foundations, but to the horrific and initially misunderstood challenge of what was termed &quot;caisson sickness&quot;. The narrative never flags and the dangers and discomforts - indeed the sheer dreadfulness of working under pressure in the foundation caissons - are brought vividly to life. The writer excels at the moments of the highest drama - such as the almost catastrophic fire in one of the caissons, when the tension is almost unbearable, even when the final outcome is known to the reader a century and a quarter later. Every aspect of American life of the period seems to be covered somewhere in this book - the experience of immigration and assimilation, service in the most bloody campaigns of the Civil War, Spiritualism, the Beecher adultery scandal and the apogee, decline and fall of Tammany, all described with verve and elegance. The well-chosen illustrations complement the text admirably. In summary this is a book to treasure - to read once at the gallop, breathless to know what happened next, and then to read again at leisure - and again, and again. Wonderful!	2000-12-14
US	50891381	R1BYKUC2VE0LDN	0375408819	992222068	The Dark Valley: A Panorama of the 1930s	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The 1930s: readable and entertaining, but few new insights.	This highly readable account of the 1930's concentrates on the political and social developments in the big powers of the time. The ground covered is therefore very familiar to the any reader reasonably au fait with the history of the period. Few, if any, new insights are offered, but the writer's style is fluid and easy, thereby providing an entertaining panorama. It is through the incidental detail that the narrative comes to life and the overall flow and colour is such that the volume would be an excellent introduction to the period for a young person seeking an overview of the lead-up to the Second World War. On occasion one cannot but query whether some of the sources have been accepted too unquestioningly by author - is, for example the otherwise mysterious &quot;Cardboard Crucifix&quot; of 1938 a reliable source for details of the Condor Legion's off-duty pastimes, which sound too stereotypical to be true? One would also wish for corroborative evidence, with supporting references, that Britain did indeed used poison gas in colonial warfare (where?), as is here alleged. The gibe elsewhere about military intelligence being a tautology is neither original nor worthy. If the book has a fault it is that in its final section, on the final countdown to the World War, it underplays the importance of British rearmament and of the grim resolution of the mass of the British people. It may be argued that the rearmament process started to late, but it was effective nonetheless, though by the narrowest of margins, and combined with a dogged determination not to submit to Fascist domination, it led to the survival of the free world. This story is the counterpoint to the apparently unstoppable march of the dictatorships. The book is all the poorer by underestimating its importance	2000-11-21
US	50891381	RCBK5G8G3ZS6	0094788405	558193950	The Long Arm of Empire: Naval Brigades from the Crimea to the Boxer Rebellion	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Grit, Pluck and Derring Do in the Heyday of Empire	This entertaining and highly readable account of British Naval Brigades not only covers the main operations through the Victorian period but also goes into considerable detail on the organisation, armaments and tactics employed. The term &quot;Naval Brigade&quot; is somewhat deceptive since it was applied to units ranging from a few bluejackets with small arms landed close to the coast to substantial forces, including heavy artillery detachments, operating far inland for significant periods. The earlier part of the book is dominated by the Royal Navy's major commitments ashore in the Crimean and Indian Mutiny campaigns and the later by the equally significant roles in the Boer War and Boxer Uprising. The intervening chapters detail a huge range of operations ranging from landings in Japan to nightmare close combat in the Gold Coast bush, via sometimes ferocious fighting in Zululand, at the Taku Forts, up the Nile and Irawaddy and inland from the Red Sea. The section on the capture of the Suez Canal in 1882 provides an early and indeed near-perfect example of inter-service co-operation. The specialist weaponry carried by many ships of the period to allow projection of power ashore is well detailed. A particularly interesting insight is the extent to which the Navy led the Army in deployment of machine guns in land operations, and skilful handling of Gatlings, Nordenfeldts and Gardners figures prominently in the story. Mr.Brooks has an easy and readable style and the narrative never flags, the more technical sections being skilfully spaced between the chapters covering specific operations. The book is enlivened by extracts from many first-hand accounts of the period, from the lower deck as well as from officers. In summary, this work is an enthralling read for anybody interested in Victorian Naval or Colonial History.	2000-11-21
US	50891381	R2RCTWA3EV0BOI	0773517677	950578863	Colonial Empires and Armies 1815-1960 (War and European Society Series)	Books	2	5	10	N	N	A jumble of facts, pervaded with distaste for the subject.	It is unclear what the underlying intention of this book is, or why it was written in the first place. It is arranged around a series of themes associated with the subject of the title - &quot;European Armies&quot;, Wars in specific geographical areas, &quot;Civilisation and Barbarism&quot;, &quot;The Dismantling of Empire&quot; etc. etc. and a roughly chronological order is followed. Within these themes a huge range of isolated facts are jumbled, leaping often from country to country, from campaign to campaign and from decade to decade, in the process drawing assumptions as to commonality of behaviour or motives that the facts do not necessarily support. In the sections dealing with the nineteenth century the impression is of the entire period being treated as a single entity, with instances being quoted from decades apart, without any significant presentation of developments in attitudes or policies. The book is pervaded by distaste for the European role in the Colonial Era that is so strong as to impair its objectivity: in one conflict after another the rights and wrongs are reduced to the level of the Animal Farm chant &quot;Four Legs God, Two Legs Bad&quot;, with Europeans, of whatever nationality, invariably classed as bipeds. There is little or no discrimination here between the differing dynamics and ethical bases for the various European empires (the American role in the Philippines is only briefly alluded to). Most serious of all, the writer repeatedly shows total incomprehension of the dilemmas and challenges that confronted successive generations of colonial administrators and soldiers. Empathy is a bonus in a history but understanding is a necessity. This book provides neither.	2000-11-21
US	50891381	R2K5IB16MOQNCC	0805063420	883097346	Lords of the Horizon: A History of the Ottoman Empire	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Lightweight but entertaining introduction to Ottoman History	This is a somewhat impressionistic history of the Ottoman Empire and might make a good introduction for a reader new to the topic. It does have the significant advantage that the writer obviously likes Turkey and the Turks and that his enthusiasm for this wonderful nation is communicated itself through the page. This reviewer found the book pleasant and entertaining reading in its earlier sections but by the time one gets half way the style begins to irritate and one wishes for something more substantial. This said, the first-time visitor to Turkey would be well advised to pack this work in his luggage along with John Freely's &quot;Istanbul: The Imperial City&quot;. The latter, as well as providing an excellent guide-section, has short but readable accounts of the reigns of every Sultan and of their Byzantine predecessors. As such it complements Mr.Goodwin's book excellently.	2000-11-03
US	50891381	RZ9IWGXA44W0A	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	3	14	14	N	N	A Factual Account of a Mighty Project	On learning of the appearance of this book I sent away for it with high hopes. I expected a work of the same sweep and ambition as Donald McCullough's two splendid histories of other great American projects, \\"The Great Bridge\\" (The Brooklyn Bridge) and \\"The Path between the Seas\\" (The Panama Canal). The story of the construction of the first trans-continental railway has the same features as these other mega-undertakings - unprecedented technical and organisational challenges, unbounded financial and political chicanery, straight old-fashioned heroism and drama, high social and historic impact and an almost limitless cast of larger than life characters.  It is therefore a disappointment to report that the present work, though it tells the story and covers all the relevant facts, has none of the pace, colour and interest of McCullough's works. The present history gives the impression of being all but overwhelmed by the sheer volume of information available. Huge amounts of facts and data, interspersed with brief quotes and extracts from first-hand accounts, are presented, but the narrative remains a dull one. The book is at its most successful in its pen-portraits of the major players (but why is Stanford the only member of \\"The Big Four\\" not to be delineated?) and it does come to life in spurts - as when describing how particularly daunting engineering challenges were overcome - the blasting of the Cape Horn road-bed in the Sierra Nevada being a case in point. The account of the mechanics of the Central Pacific's track-laying in the final days before the historic junction at Promontory Summit is similarly exciting. These high points serve however to emphasise the opportunities that are missed in providing more extended coverage of other equally exciting episodes. One would welcome knowing much more about the quite hair-raising Indian attacks on the Union Pacific, these including derailments and train-burnings, and more also on the techniques of timber trestle construction in extreme conditions. Financial skulduggery is another feature of the story but the book outlines enough to confuse, yet not to enlighten. Having said this, the work does serve to give an overview of the enterprise, with all the salient features covered and a fine selection of photographs. The definitive popular narrative history  of the Union Pacific and Central Pacific epics does however remain to be written.	2000-10-16
US	50891381	R3EBSKW6ZWW2U7	078670618X	644277504	Black Ajax	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A recreation, not of the past, but of another present.	In this marvellously original novel Mr. MacDonald Fraser fully deploys his  ability to create the very feel of another age in the way he has done  humorously in the Flashman novels and seriously in \\"Mr.American\\". This book  immerses us in the prizefighting world of Regency England but the author  does not write of the past, but rather of another present, different to our  own, and he makes it live not only though its own speech patterns and  slang, but by conveying the values, expectations and cultural norms of the  time, as expressed in daily life. There is no overt judgement here of the  rights and wrongs of that society, with its acceptance of exploitation,  economic, social, sexual and racial, on a scale inconceivable in modern  Western Society, and this makes the implicit condemnation all the stronger.  This is not a polemic however and one is reminded throughout how basic  qualities of human decency, courage and compassion - no less than of greed  and cruelty - are unchanging with time.  The story - a true one - is  complex, exciting and thought-provoking. The technique employed, a series  of narratives from different viewpoints and from different observers or  participants, none the main character, is an inherently difficult one to  pull off successfully, but Mr. MacDonald Fraser manages it brilliantly.  Each narrator has his or her own uniquely personal style and many are not  reporting - but rather justifying themselves or establishing a personal  stake on the basis of recollections that may or may not be totally  accurate. The range of characterisation through reminiscence is stunning -  from the proudly-conscious sadism of a Louisiana plantation owner, to the  cynicism of a wealthy Havana brothel-keeper whom we have first encountered  as an innocent and terrified slave girl, to the absolute amorality of the  alcohol-sodden Flashman Senior (father of the immortal Harry) to the rough  decency of English prize-fighters. The use of period style and slang ismasterful. The author has obviously immersed himself in the writings of  Pierce Egan (who features in the cast) and many of the pages of \\"Black  Ajax\\" might indeed go undetected as being of later date if inserted among  the chronicles of the original Tom and Jerry, while I am still uncertain  whether the contribution of William Hazlitt (who also appears) is an  extract from his actual writings or a recreation by Mr.MacDonald Fraser. In  summary - a splendid novel. One thirsts for more in similar vein.	2000-09-17
US	50891381	R1D24MRCZX3LV8	070437112X	848377274	Nomonhan	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Welcome light on Nomonhan - but better maps needed!	The undeclared Kalkhin Gol war, or &quot;Nomonhan Incident&quot;, between  Japan and the USSR in 1939 is one of those tantalising subjects which we  know to be important, but on which it is difficult to find out much in  detail, though there are limited references to it in many books on the  period. One is aware that this massive but short-duration conflict, which  involved large-scale air and armour deployments as well as ground troops,  was the key factor in diverting Japanese aggression southwards from then  onwards, thus abandoning a half-century of north westwards expansion. Any  new volume on the subject is therefore extremely welcome and it is with  regret that one must report that Mr.Colvin's work is something of a  disappointment. Though the early part of the book goes some way to putting  the conflict into context, more detailed treatment would be desirable of  Japanese activity in Manchuria from 1931, and of the composition, weapons  and tactics of the forces deployed there, chiefly the Kwantung Army. The  semi-autonomy of the command structure vis--vis Imperial Headquarters also  merits better treatment (readers are directed to David Bergamini's  magnificent &quot;Japan's Imperial Conspiracy&quot; for more on this). The  incident occurred at a critical juncture for the Soviet forces as well,  reeling as they were from the impact of the purges of their senior  commanders. In view of the key military victim having been Marshal  Tukhachevski, and of his theories on armoured warfare having been  discredited with him, one would have liked more on the Soviet armoured  doctrine employed at Nomonhan. In marked contrast to its performance a year  later against the Finns, Soviet armour did well on the Mongolian/Manchurian  border and one is left wondering what the vital ingredient was on this  occasion - the genius of Zhukov himself, or the initiative of more junior  commanders. Mr. Colvin writes a fluid and readable narrative, enlivened  with many colourful details and character summaries and his research and  indeed his personal-appreciation of the nature of the terrain gives  credibility and immediacy. The most serious weakness of the book is however  the lack of maps, for though two scanty ones are provided, neither identify  the majority of the place names mentioned in the text. Though the narrative  is quite detailed as regards the movements of the various units involved,  it is almost impossible to put these into context without a better feel for  the relative locations of the various topographical and geographical  features which are named. In summary, a disappointing, but nevertheless  welcome, addition to the literature on Soviet-Japanese confrontation.	2000-09-16
US	50891381	R2NVMEWA5JKAGV	0094780102	833377516	Tank Warfare in the Second World War: An Oral History	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A moving and sometimes poetic anthology.	This selection of personal reminiscences from troops of the  armoured-forces Great Britain, the United States, Germany, France and the  Soviet Union covers their entire experience from initial enlistment,  through basic training, deployment and life in the field, and on to combat  and beyond. Memoirs of the same basic experience in different armies are  juxtaposed and the reader cannot but be impressed by the stoicism, humour,  humanity and decency that crosses all boundaries of nationality and  culture. An advantage of the sequential approach is that many of the same  characters are met at varying stages of their careers, so giving an  appreciation of the maturing process that carried them from raw recruits to  seasoned warriors. The majority of the selections are unselfconscious and  unadorned, the honest accounts of non-professional writers explaining in  their own words the most important experiences of their lives. Many are  moving in their depiction of camaraderie and of coping with loss and injury  - and some are even poetic. The only exceptions are the contributions  relating to the Soviet forces, which have been drawn from official  publications and which were obviously subjected at some stage to  Stalinist-type re-editing. The only fault of the book is its brevity - it  could have been at least twice as long without straining the patience of  this reader at least - and one hopes that Colonel Forty would consider  bringing out an expanded version in the future. <br />Readers who enjoy this  book will also find echoes in two fine novels concentrating on British  Armoured Forces in World War II. The first, &quot;Sands of Valour&quot; by  Geoffrey Wagner, is set in the North African theatre and is arguably one of  the best novels to emerge form the war while the second, &quot;Flesh  Wounds&quot; by David Holbrook , gives a quite terrifying picture of  service in a unit of Shermans in Normandy in 1944, prior to the breakout.	2000-09-11
US	50891381	R3JNW0V4AWCNAW	0465057128	122798525	The Pity Of War: Explaining World War I	Books	2	15	28	N	N	Is this book really necessary?	This work gives the impression of being the result of a very long  literature search, undertaken in conditions far removed from the  battlefield, and conducive to wisdom after the event, and with little  feeling or understanding for the passions, good and bad, that actually  motivate flesh and blood people. The writer has obviously trawled through  forests of data and statistics and is determined to get as much of them as  possible on to the printed page, ideally to support  &quot;controversial&quot; viewpoints. Despite this repeated emphasis on  provision of &quot;shocking&quot; theses, the effect is in the end somewhat  predictable and indeed boring. No matter how the statistics are piled up,  arguments that make Britain as culpable as Germany for the escalation, if  not indeed the origin, of the war, or that a German victory might have  brought about something like the current European Union, are hard to  swallow. The arguments around casualty statistics as a rationale for who  should have been the final victor have an uncomfortable affinity with  Falkenhayn's Verdun strategy and demonstrate a lack of feeling for factors  such as morale and commitment. The uncomfortable reality for those who  argue as the present author is that in the end it was these factors - as  summarised in Haig's &quot;backs to the wall&quot; order of 1918 and  embodied in the bloody-minded determination of thousands of ordinary men -  that led to the German defeat. The sections of the book that discuss  behaviour in the field, and particularly the decision whether to surrender,  fail to convey any convincing understanding for how men act in extremis,  and though many individual memoirs are quoted one suspects that another  selection might have as easily supported an alternative view. ...	2000-09-11
US	50891381	R2EKXWWFFMC9KO	0385476973	649618701	The Great Shame: And The Triumph Of The Irish In The English -Speaking World	Books	5	20	20	N	N	If you read nothing else this year, read this!	In this book Keneally proves that he can write factual historical narrative with the same pace, colour and immediacy that make his treatment  of serious themes in novels so compelling. Here the subject is the  transportation - legally and physically - of Irish nationalism to Australia  and the United States in the nineteenth century. Keneally does not attempt  a history of that nationalism itself, but rather, through  illustration of  the lives, adventures and intellectual development of three successive  generations of nationalists, portrays the nature of the experience of  repression and resistance in Ireland, and of forced exile and ultimately  triumph in Australia and the United States. In the first section of the  book Hugh Larkin, a forefather of Keneally's own wife, stands as a  representative of the thousands who suffered early in the century for their  inarticulate and disorganised resentment of their serf-like status. The  careful reconstruction of the brutal sequence by which Larkin was torn from  hearth and home, and deposited unprepared in the Australian Bush, and by  which his family was sundered, is rendered all the more chilling by the  tone of legal correctness that informed the entire inhuman process. It is a  theme dealt with on a much wider canvas by Robert Hughes in &quot;The Fatal  Shore&quot;, but never with such poignancy as the treatment of this  individual case evokes. One finishes the book still haunted by the  disappearance of Larkin's abandoned wife into the &quot;nacht und  nebel&quot; of post-Famine Ireland. The fate of the leaders of Young  Ireland, the naively idealistic movement doomed by that same Famine  dominates the second part of the book - and it is one filled with moral  ambiguities and dilemmas. The nominal leader, Smith-O'Brien, comes across  as self-important, pompous and ultimately irrelevant but his allies Meagher  and Mitchell are full-blooded personalities too extravagant for any  fiction. Their individual escapes from Australia to the United States are  the preliminaries to passionate involvement in the politics and  battlefields of the Civil War. The attitudes of these erstwhile defenders  of Irish freedom to the Slavery issue are fascinating - Meagher, ambiguous,  even unsympathetic, but heroically leading the Irish 69th Regiment into  bloodbaths at Antietem, Fredricksburg and Chancellorsville while Mitchell,  a convert to Southern values, sacrificing his family and his freedom for  the Confederate cause and ending in chains alongside Jefferson Davis  himself. Meagher's association with characters such as Dan Sickles and  William Walker (of Nicaragua filibustering fame), and his later adventures  in Montana, are worth a book in their own right (he does feature in Jeff  Sharra's &quot;Gods and Generals&quot;). The final section of  &quot;&quot;The Great Shame&quot; represents the link with our own era,  detailing the rise, temporary fall and ultimate survival of the Fenians and  of the Irish Republican Brotherhood, the movement that would be ultimately  decisive in achieving Irish independence. Complex personalities - if more  focussed and ruthless than in earlier generations - abound here also and  the account of the rescue of Fenian prisoners from Western Australia by a  specially chartered New England whaler in the 1870's is the stuff of the  highest drama. The personal oddessy of John Boyle O'Reilly, cavalry trooper  turned revolutionary, who reflected the experience of prison,  transportation and escape in his writing and ultimately emerged as a pillar  of the Boston literary establishment, is both surprising and inspiring -  one yearns to know yet more abut this attractive personality.<br />This is a  work one races through, and hopes will never end. Keneally's novelist's  feel for telling detail and the revealing phrase explains more about the  Irish experience than any bloodless academic history of recent years. Most  of the story is tragic but the sense of the indomitability, generosity and  nobility of the human spirit balances the squalor, the cruelty and the  oppression so that the final effect is of inspiration. The subject may be  nationalism but the underlying theme is the greatness of humanity itself.  In summary it is a wonderful book - perhaps Keneally's best. If you read  nothing else this year, read this.ability, generosity and  nobility of the human spirit balances the squalor, the cruelty and the  oppression so that the final effect is of inspiration. The subject may be  nationalism but the underlying theme is the greatness of humanity itself.  In summary it is a wonderful book - perhaps Keneally's best. If you read  nothing else this year, read this.	2000-08-28
US	50891381	R1GPTXBGUI8CSV	0712665625	471707173	I Was a Stranger	Books	4	17	17	N	N	The Courage and Decency of Ordinary People.	Though I first read this book some twenty years ago it has remained with me ever since as a warm and generous &quot;settlement of account for services rendered&quot; by a wounded escapee who was sheltered and helped to liberty, at great risk to themselves, by a large number of ordinary  people. In this it has much in common with that other masterpiece of the  genre, Eric Newby's &quot;Love and War in the Apennines&quot;, having the  same, understated, values of compassion, humour and decency. Hackett's  account of his wounding and capture at Arnhem, and of the cheerful valour  with which he and his companions faced an uncertain future, is somehow  typical of the spirit of all involved in that ultimately failed, but always  glorious, venture. His subsequent escape from hospital and the medical care  lavished on him, under the most difficult circumstances while in hiding, by  courageous Dutch patriots is both exciting and inspiring. Despite severe  shortages of medical supplies the treatment Hackett received for a serious  intestinal wound was enough to restore him to sufficient fitness to allow  an eventual escape back to Allied lines. He paints a moving picture of  normal people doing abnormal deeds at great risk to themselves and to those  who know and love the best in Dutch society this will come as no surprise.  My wife and I remembered this book when we later made a pilgrimage with our  family to the Oosterbeek Cemetery and to the areas of combat in and around  the town of Arnhem itself and it served as a heartening, and often amusing  postscript, to the story of the battle. In short, a delightful and noble  memoir of courage, generosity and indomitability - highly recommended.	2000-05-09
US	50891381	R3C4XWMB21UDTF	0195116348	60583506	Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898 (The History of NYC Series)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A history that does justice to the losers.	This book's 1200 pages and substantial weight should not daunt prospective buyers, for it is has the flow of a well-written novel and holds the reader's attention from the outset. It covers every aspect of New York's  growth through nearly three centuries, the emphasis shifting from chapter  to chapter from the social to the economic to the industrial to the  political, yet always maintaining an easy chronological flow. Old  controversies and concerns, many long forgotten, are brought to life  through the authors' emphasis on roles played by individuals, and by the  hundreds of short biographical sketches woven seamlessly into in the  narrative. To do &quot;Gotham&quot; justice would require a far longer  review than this, and any one of a dozen different aspects could be  selected for praise. The book's most striking feature is perhaps its  delineation of the extent to which ethnic and religious resentments  dominated the city right until the end of the nineteenth century,  emphasising that the &quot;melting pot&quot; was a far from popular or  comfortable process. Discrimination and oppression were inherent from the  foundation of Nieuw Amsterdam and the later transition from colony to free  republic did little to reduce them - indeed the most virulent hatreds  appear to have seethed in the middle of the nineteenth century, as  entrenched WASP interests resented and resisted the growing presence and  power of German and Irish immigrants. The book ends with these interests in  uneasy equilibrium and with the wave of Italian and Jewish new arrivals  seeking to stake their own positions, with the later in particular bringing  a new dimension in social awareness and responsibility. Throughout the  period covered the plight of Black Americans is perhaps the most pitiful of  all and provides a terrible counterpoint to the growth of prosperity  enjoyed by part at least of all other ethnic groups. Though this history is  rich in rascals of theatrical wickedness such as Bosses Tweed and Croker,  the most odious personalities tend to be respectable establishment figures:  the philanthropist John Pintard observing during the 1832 Cholera epidemic  &quot;that the sooner &quot;the scum of the city&quot; was dispatched, the  sooner the fever, deprived of fodder, would pass&quot; (p.591); the  Reverend Henry Ward Beecher (then earning $30,000 per annum) drawing  laughter and applause from his congregation during the 1870's Depression by  reminding them that though man could not live by bread alone, a family  could survive on bread and water - and water was free (p.1036); E.L.Godkin,  editor of &quot;The Nation&quot; declaring during that same time of misery  that &quot;Free soup must be prohibited&quot; (p.1031). Against so many  dismal examples of intolerance, self-righteousness and greed the book's  greatest strength is that it saves from obscurity the names of some many of  the victims - and of their sufferings and their dignity. This reader, for  one, cannot forget Caesar and Prince, Cuffee and Quack, black slaves burned  alive for a pathetic conspiracy in 1741; or Clause, another slave, broken  alive on the wheel outside City Hall and dying over many hours. Seventeen  year-old Lanah Sawyer's wealthy rapist Henry Bedlow, may have been  acquitted by a biased jury in 1793, and Lanah vilified, but she has her  vindication in these pages. Cecilia and Wanda Stein live on through this  book, starving German immigrants &quot;unwilling to take up whoring&quot;,  who spent their last pennies on some flowers, spruced up their dreary room,  got into bed with Wanda's six-year old daughter, and swallowed prussic acid  in 1852. There are countless other instances, and it is in its  acknowledgement of the price paid by society's losers for the creation of  the &quot;Imperial City&quot; of the climax that this work finds its true  grandeur. In summary, this is a splendid history, magnificent in  conception, thorough and generous-spirited in execution.The reader is left  waiting impatiently for the next volume that will carry the story further  by another century.	2000-05-08
US	50891381	R30L7FMS86NRRE	0805046089	689226716	Every Man Will Do His Duty: An Anthology of Firsthand Accounts from the Age of Nelson	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Authentic Voices from the Age of Fighting Sail.	This splendidly enjoyable anthology - an ideal bedside book - includes some twenty-two first-hand narratives, from British and American sources, of naval life and death in the French Revolutionary War, the Napoleonic  Wars and the War of 1812.  Though some are extracts from memoirs written  many years after the events described, others stem from closer to the  action and so have an immediacy and freshness that sweeps away the two  intervening centuries so that the reader all but feels the presence of the  story-teller. Accounts by officers, some to achieve yet higher rank, such  as Cochrane and Porter, alternate with less-polished descriptions from the  lower deck, some frank in the extreme, particularly as to scrapes ashore.  Of particular interest is Surgeon William Beatty's account of Trafalgar and  of the death of Nelson, which is often referred to in other texts but is  quoted here in full - even today, it is impossible to read it without  emotion. Every aspect of the naval officer's and seaman's life, whether  afloat or ashore, is covered here, but a consistent theme throughout is the  cheerful courage, camaraderie, humanity and sense of honour in the face of  unrelenting hardship and adversity that characterised all levels in the  service. Devotees of the naval fiction of Forrester, Kent, Pope and O'Brian  may on occasion wonder whether the reality can have been as consistently  violent and hazardous as their novels portray but this volume confirms that  if they err, it is on the side of moderation. William Henry Dillon's view  of the Glorious First of June from the gun-deck of HMS Defence and Samuel  Leech's account of the HMS Macedonian vs. USS United States duel are as  grim and blood-spattered as anything in such fiction. Cochrane's  swashbuckling depredations of enemy shipping in the Mediterranean in HMS  Speedy would deemed too unlikely for any novel and George Vernon Jackson's  extended escape efforts in Napoleonic France rival those of Colditz  detainees in a later conflict by their resourcefulness and persistence.  Throughout all these accounts however one is struck by the humanity and  decency that characterised relations between enemy forces outside actual  combat in the age before militant nationalism added a new bitterness to  warfare. William Robinson's account of the aftermath of Trafalgar proves  that Nelson's prayer that magnanimity in victory might characterise the  Royal Navy struck a chord with officers and men alike, Jackson's account is  full of kindnesses received from ordinary French people while &quot;on the  run&quot; and Porter's account of the courtesies that preceded and followed  the USS Essex's murderous show-down with HMS Phoebe off Valpariso show that  honour was not merely a word, but a way of life, to the officers of the  time. In summary this anthology is a delight to be savoured over a long  period, a well to be dipped into with pleasure for many years to come.	2000-05-08
US	50891381	RTJ43TS0UN78G	0871138034	324607158	Victory 1918	Books	4	25	29	N	N	How and Why the Western Powers Finally Prevailed	The name of this fine overview of grand strategy in World War 1 is somewhat misleading, for the emphasis is not solely on the events of 1918, but on the whole framework of strategies that led to eventual victory. As  such the entire period of the war is covered from the viewpoint of the  Western Allies, and also, later, of the United States, which was careful to  identify itself as an &quot;Associated Power&quot;, and not an ally. This  book reminds us that far from having been &quot;stabbed in the back&quot;,  as later nationalist legend would have it, with such tragic consequences,  Germany and the Central Powers were thoroughly thrashed in the field in  1918. Full credit is given to the British and French for their victory in  late 1918, with a limited though growing degree of American support, and  this triumph is all the more impressive as it came at the end of some four  murderous years when both nations had been driven almost to breaking point.  It is good to see the classic photograph of the Staffordshire Territorials  posed on the slopes of the St.Quentin Canal reproduced here - no other  image conveys so powerfully the elation of victory close in sight after so  much sacrifice. It is what led to this that is the theme of this book and  its great strength is that campaigns and theatre-openings aimed at  &quot;knocking the props&quot; from under the Central Powers get balanced  treatment in relation to the Western Front. In the process light is shed on  many neglected aspects of the war, leaving the reader to yearn to know more  about less publicised undertakings. When, for example, will we see a  comprehensive and readable narrative histories in English on the Italian  Front? Will we see a follow-up to Mr.Palmer's own trail-blazing &quot;The  Gardeners of Salonika&quot;? Will no modern historian take up the challenge  of the entire Mesopotamian epic - not just the debacle at Kut but Maude's  subsequent triumph? Mr.Palmer's &quot;Victory 1918&quot; is sweeping in  scope and strategic in emphasis but he nevertheless knows how to leaven his  narrative with telling and enlivening detail. At the close one is left  almost overwhelmed by the absolute completeness of the Allied victory on  all fronts - much to the surprise of the victors themselves, who only weeks  before were preparing themselves for further campaigning in 1919. The easy  style makes it a pleasure to read and one only hopes that Mr.Palmer will  follow it up with generally similar narrative volumes but addressing the  same overall issue of Great War Strategy from the Russian and Central  Powers viewpoints respectively.	2000-05-08
US	50891381	R3ELDP9U6AWMPN	0753150492	865966117	Bravest of the Brave: The True Story of Wing-Commander "Tommy" Yeo-Thomas Soe Secret Agent Codename "the White Rabbit"	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The title is no misnomer!	This book deserves to be on the curriculum of every school in the Western World for it delineates in merciless detail just what was the price of the freedoms we take so much for granted today and what the much-devalued word  &quot;hero&quot; actually means. One hopes that similar sacrifices will  never be required again by the ordinary citizens of free nations, but if  they are, the courage, self-sacrifice and indomitability of Yeo-Thomas and  so many others whose lives, and often also deaths, are touched on here will  serve as an example and as an inspiration. Mr.Seaman tells the story of a  man, ordinary in many ways, who, when confronted with absolute evil, and at  an age when serving in a less active role would have evoked no disgrace,  never hesitated to accept missions of the utmost danger. He proved the  ideal combination of organiser, diplomat and man of action before capture  and in detention proved an inspiring leader for his companions in misery.  He was under no illusions as to the consequences of arrest by a barbarous  enemy and when the worst happened he endured unspeakable suffering under  interrogation, torture and slave-labour in concentration camps. Throughout  all this his dedication to victory never failed and even in the squalid  hell of Buchenwald he continued to resist. The most moving moment detailed  in the book is when Yeo-Thomas, a filthy scarecrow in striped  concentration-camp uniform, is recognised in a regular POW camp to which he  has been sent on menial errands, and a group of British NCOs and men stand  to attention before him, honouring him for a few moments before he returns  to the abyss. Though Yeo-Thomas was assiduous in supporting prosecution of  his tormentors after the war, his fairmindedness was such that he was  willing to rise to the defence of Otto Skorzeny, whom he considered an  honourable foe. This book is not only inspiring in itself, but it provides  much more detail than the earlier &quot;The White Rabbit&quot; onYeo  Thomas's earlier life, and on the organisation of the French Resistance.  Those who enjoy it will be equally impressed, and touched, by Rita Kramer's  &quot;Flames in the Field&quot;, which tells the stories of four women  agents who did not survive wartime missions in France. My own daughters  have been inspired by both books and they would make ideal and  inspirational birthday gifts for young persons.	2000-05-05
US	50891381	R10TX56J0THI5A	0935526684	809884142	The Inshore Squadron (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 13)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bolitho in Shadow	This is a more sombre book than any of the earlier Bolitho chronicles, almost as if the grey northern skies it plays out under cast their shadow over events. The bulk of the action plays out in the eastern North Sea and  in the Kattegat and Bolitho is seriously wounded and convalescent for much  of the story. In the midst of all this romantic interest enters his life  but the female in question is little luckier than Bolitho's earlier women -  who appear to be  born to suffer! The climax involves a side-action to the  Battle of Copenhagen and while Nelson turns a blind eye, Richard Bolitho  finds himself barely surviving attach by a swarm of Danish rowed-gunboats.  The technical detail, and the continuing development of familiar  characters, are as engrossing as ever, but the novel has little of the  sense of adventure of earlier ones. It's possibly not surprising - the  Copenhagen action was a painful necessity for the Royal Navy, undertaken  with resignation and from a sense of duty, but without the almost  missionary element that characterised the sea war against the French.	2000-05-05
US	50891381	R2ILALXXBEBZWG	1859982026	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda (Actors Choice)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Life may not be like this - but it should be!	Not only is the story a splendidly enjoyable one, full of simple (almost childish) intrigue, outright (and equally childish) villainy, unabashed heroism and noble sentiments, but it is written in a style that is totally  engaging, drawing the reader in from the first sentence. Other than the  incidental details nothing about the story may be realistic, but one  doesn't want it to be so in this marvellous romp and the reader is rooting  for the frank, generous and unhesitatingly courageous hero from the very  first. Jeremy Nicholas' reading adds to the pleasure, and the very richness  and tone of his voice seems to come straight from the late Victorian  period. With it he brings to life the large cast of characters, the  villains being no less attractive and entertaining than the hero and his  cohorts. Life isn't always like this - but it should be! This talking book  is a splendid companion for a long road journey. One waits avidly for his  reading of Rupert of Hentzau, the denouncement of which should not be  revealed beforehand.	2000-05-05
US	50891381	RA1FJNY3SHLHG	0781806739	797552465	Bitter Glory: Poland & Its Fate 1918-1939	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Prologue to Tragedy	As Mr. Watts showed in his earlier works &quot;Dare Call it Treason&quot; on the French mutinies of 1917 and &quot;The Kings Depart&quot; on Germany and the Versailles Treaty, he is a master of narrative history. The present book is of similar quality. It is the sort of &quot;find&quot; one dreams  of encountering but so seldom does, a well-written, exciting account of a  subject one knows to be of interest and importance, but on which little  seems to be available outside detailed academic histories. Mr. Watts has a  splendidly exciting story to tell - how Modern Poland sprung from a dream  of freedom that had been kept alive despite a century and a half of  partition and foreign repression - and he tells it with verve. The initial  part of the story is on an epic scale: the apparently hopeless struggle of  Pilsudski and other nationalists to breathe new life into the Polish ideal  prior to the First World War, their brilliant exploitation of events as the  German, Austro-Hungarian and Russian Empires crumbled at the end of it,  their momentarily-successful attempt to revive an earlier Greater Poland  stretching from the Baltic to the Black Sea and their final, incredible,  last-ditch success in repulsing Bolshevik invasion in 1920.  After this  deliverance - or rather nineteen-year stay of execution, as subsequent  events were to prove - the challenge of creating a modern, economically  viable state was a daunting one, with minimal resources and an  impoverished, undereducated population. The second part of the book,  detailing the painful process of industrialisation and of land, fiscal and  education reform is no less fascinating than the first, playing out against  a background of hostile neighbours and internal political squabbling. Petty  party politics and narrow sectional interests bedevilled the new nation and  once Pilsudski, the founding father, a benevolent not-quite-dictator,  passed from the scene in the mid '30s these became ever more malignant  factors, not least in unworthy half-tolerance of increasing Anti-Semitism.  Despite all however, one gets the sense of a heroic people seeking a higher  destiny, faltering on occasion, yet never losing faith in themselves and  hope in the future. Mr.Watts guides the reader through the morass of party  politics with assurance, never losing one's interest, and is very effective  in bringing to life the main players in inter-war Polish society. The book  ends with the disaster of 1939, with Poland once again partitioned by its  ruthless neighbours and with its indomitable citizens entering the hell  that will see them brutalised and enslaved, but also fighting on battle  fronts from North Africa to Normandy and the Netherlands, over the skies of  Western Europe and, bloody but unbowed, in the very ruins and sewers of  Warsaw itself. These latter epics of Polish heroism are well recorded  elsewhere and it is to Mr.Watts' credit that he has recorded so well what  set the scene for these later events.	2000-04-25
US	50891381	RDGYZ1D0EHV7X	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Turgid, Contrived and Boiring	Having enjoyed Mr.Harris's imaginative and finely-observed &quot;Fatherland&quot; I came to this present work with high expectations (indeed I reserved it for light holiday reading in a remote part of Thailand). It was a major disappointment to find that this new novel is  turgid and contrived. It doesn't help that it is burdened with a principal  character (one hesitates to say &quot;hero&quot;) who is that most  hackneyed clich&eacute; of the modern thriller, in print or on celluloid, the  dishevelled and hard-drinking womaniser. The writer's familiarity with  modern Moscow is milked for every incidental detail possible and the  linkages back to late Stalinist time are laboured to say the least. By the  hundredth page I gave up in sheer boredom, totally uninterested in the  further plot development or in the outcome. Can this be the same novel I  read such rave reviews of? Thank Heavens I had other reading material with  me on my holiday!	2000-04-25
US	50891381	R1TTGYHPB0GH6F	080505989X	143046422	A Life Wild and Perilous: Mountain Men and the Paths to the Pacific	Books	4	14	16	N	N	How the West was Won!	This is ideal follow-up reading to Stephen Ambrose's &quot;Undaunted Courage&quot; since it details how the Rocky Mountains were penetrated and paths were found to the Pacific Coast, preparing the way for emigrant trails, in the four decades following the Lewis and Clark expedition. Some  participants in that venture feature indeed in the early chapters of this  work, some meeting horrific fates at the hands of Indian tribes. Mr.Utley  structures his very readable narrative around the lives and careers both of  individual Mountain Men and of more formal explorers and he is very  successful in explaining how each new item of information on river systems,  mountain ranges and watersheds was haltingly, and sometimes even wrongly,  integrated step by step into an overall understanding of the geography of  the American West. A major strength of the book is the collection of  coloured, computer-generated maps which complement the text splendidly and  which, far more effectively than conventional maps, convey the complexities  of the terrain traversed in these amazing journeys. Mr.Utley carries his  scholarship lightly and the story is told with fluency and grace. A most  enjoyable book and an ideal vade-mecum for anybody planning a holiday in  the Western United States.	2000-04-25
US	50891381	R3DE11113S656M	0935526676	99076929	SignalClose Action! (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 12)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Dashing Bonaparte's Oriental Ambitions!	It is with relief that admirers of Richard Bolitho learn that when Bonaparte launched his invasion of Egypt, the dashing sea-officer was not found wanting and was in the thick of efforts to frustrate the future  Emperor's knavish tricks. As Mr.Kent tells the story in this splendid  addition to the Bolitho Chronicles, the experience was however a far from  pleasant one, and though Bolitho deservedly flies his flag at last, he must  weather illness, conflict with his old friend Herrick , betrayal by an old  colleague and a ferocious battle with a French squadron in the Corfu  Channel before he can lay his ship alongside the enemy in the climactic  Battle of the Nile. As always the historical and technical details add  colour to the story and the faithful reader gets considerable satisfaction  from following the fortunes and developing characters of the hero and his  colleagues. Those who enjoy this book will also find satisfaction in Brian  Lavery's excellent &quot;Nelson and the Nile&quot;, which describes the  entire 1798 Mediterranean Campaign from both the British and French  viewpoints in lively and entertaining prose. One is only disappointed that  t omits any mention of Bolitho's pivotal role. One wonders why!	2000-04-25
US	50891381	R2VZ0J3UE9AW3Z	0140244611	601825249	Istanbul: The Imperial City	Books	5	59	60	N	N	An Indespensible Guide to a Wonderful City	This is a delightful combination of history and guide, addressing the history of Byzantium/Constantinople/Istanbul from the earliest Greek settlements to the present day. Mr.Freely provides a short but very  readable account of the reigns of every Emperor and Sultan (and regardless  of origin or religion the vast majority were a ghastly but entertaining  bunch!) and sets them in the context of the growth of the city and of its  principle monuments. The book is worth purchasing for the guide section  alone, which is at the end of the book, and which provides excellent short  descriptions of al the main architectural features and archaeological  remains.  This reader's only regret is that the book had not yet been  published when he spent significant periods in Istanbul, for it is not only  unique in concept and format, but also superior to any other book he has  encountered as a guide to this wonderful city. It can be thoroughly  recommended for anybody making a visit to Istanbul, however short. Readers  whose interest is whetted by the chapters on pre-conquest Constantinople  will find that John Julius Norwich's splendid three volume-history of  Byzantium provides the extra, and fascinating, detail they crave.	2000-04-17
US	50891381	R1U0AAV9BMJE8F	0786706600	11660788	Napoleon III: A Life	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Rise and Fall of a Mountebank	Patience, cunning and cold-blooded manipulation underlay the forty-year quest for power by Louis Napoleon, son of the short-term King of Holland, brother of Napoleon I and of the emperor's step-daughter Hortense  Beauharnais. These years were marked by intrigues and exile in Germany,  Switzerland, Italy, Britain and the United States and by failed coups and  imprisonment in France. The key-notes of these efforts were persistence and  a single-minded conviction that, against all odds, the French people would  in the end somehow accept him as a reincarnation of his uncle. On the way  Louis Napoleon flirted with socialism and other progressive creeds, perhaps  even with a degree of sincerity, but his final assumption of supreme power  was to see a quick abandonment of anything but a semblance of support for  any such measures. The irony of the whole story is that by the time Lois  Napoleon was finally established firmly as Emperor, complete with a  domineering and self-important wife and a much-desired son and heir, he  seemed to lose interest in the entire enterprise. There were significant  advances and gains in many areas during the Second Empire but its later  years of his reign were marked by Louis Napoleon's moral deterioration (a  relative term considering what he was to start with), increasing inertia  and willingness to be let others, make the running. The disastrous  consequence of all this was France's precipitation into the disaster of the  Franco-Prussian War, a conflict that the Emperor did not seem to believe  in, but which, at the same time, he took no effective measures to prevent.  There are strong points of similarity in both the characters and careers of  both Louis Napoleon and Charles II of England, each personally courageous  and highly intelligent, but cynical, manipulative and cold-hearted, each  patiently enduring the disappointments of exile with confidence in final  success, each finding poor satisfaction in that success, each possibly  killed, too young, by their own doctors. The ultimate indictment of Louis  Napoleon may well be that, as Mr.Bresler seeks to prove in this fine  biography, he had a comfortable bolt-hole prepared in England long before  he finally needed it.  Mr.Bresler tells a fascinating story with pace and  elegance and knows how to bring the past alive with quite fascinating  vignettes, particularly of Louis's life in England at various times. One  delights in the examples of Louis rowing with the Disraelis and getting the  boat stranded on a mud-bank, or of him serving as a special constable in  Trafalgar Square during the Chartist Crisis. The best of all must however  be of Louis, a darling of smart London society in the late 1830's,  dismissed with a caution from Bow Street Magistrate's Court for attempted  duelling, and thereafter attending Covent Garden Opera House flanked by his  uncles Joseph and Jerome, the erstwhile Kings of Spain and Westphalia,  brothers of the late emperor. One wonders how the Duke of Wellington, who  had confronted these gentlemen at Vittoria and Waterloo, might have  commented as he read the news over breakfast.	2000-04-17
US	50891381	R3T4N0DJ0O97WY	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Death of the Intellect	This volume must rank as one of Naipaul's best non-fiction works and reading it sends one back to the earlier work that inspired it, &quot;Among the Believers&quot;, in which he detailed a similar journey in 1979. In  some cases he even describes meetings with the same people as previously.  The changes in the two decades since have seldom been for the better, to  the extent to which the alternative title of the present book might well be  &quot;The Death of the Intellect&quot;. Naipaul deploys his brilliant  powers of observation and description to the full in bringing to life the  experiences of individuals from a wide variety of social classes and ethnic  backgrounds, yet all trapped within a constricting web of dogma.  The  overall effect is depressing in the extreme as one encounters one life  after another stunted by inability to reconcile religious beliefs with the  realities of scientific realities, technological progress and human  potential. Naipaul is arguably the greatest novelist writing in English  today and his mastery of style and composition is no less marked in his  non-fiction works. One does however long for another &quot;A Bend in the  River&quot; and hopes that the ground covered in &quot;Beyond Belief&quot;  might just provide a worthy theme.	2000-04-01
US	50891381	R3NS0F9JUFSE7A	0786103094	496454716	The Diary of a Nobody	Books	5	58	61	N	N	An Evergreen Comic Masterpiece.	This book  must be the most nearly perfect piece of comic writing in English, its humour gentle and subtle, its depiction of character, class, time and location flawless. It fixes forever the late-Victorian world of  the respectable Lower Middle Class, populated by clerks, petty merchants  and tradesmen, observing it with both objectivity and affection. It is  splendidly read on tape by Frederick Davidson, whose assumed accent is  perfectly gauged to reflect the upwardly-mobile aspirations of the  Mr.Charles Pooter, the self-confessed nobody of the title, and which slips  down the social scale by several notches in moments of stress and  frustration. Though superficially simple, the construction of the narrative  is complex in the extreme, with comic situations often being built up over  a long period, and with clues carefully planted in earlier sections, only  to come to fruition later. It is particularly impressive how the main  characters - Pooter himself, his long-suffering and often silly but  supportive wife Carrie and his exasperating son Lupin - emerge as rounded  characters from apparently simple diary entries and achieve a realism and  familiarity as great as any in more serious literature. The situations in  which they find themselves - or rather get themselves - are not only  ludicrously amusing, but also close to the normality of life as many live  it, and one can often, uncomfortably, recognise one's self or one's friends  in their reactions to them.  What makes the Diary an enduring masterpiece  is however the gentle and affectionate treatment of human weakness - and  greatness. Pooter may be pompous, foolish and sometimes sycophantic, but he  is also loyal, decent and honourable and his life, and his family's, for  all its pettiness, also has its dignity. I first read the Diary over forty  years ago and it has never ceased to delight me since - it remains a  treasured bedside book to be opened at random - and this splendid tape of  it is an ideal companion for long or short automobile journeys. (An  interesting footnote is that George Grossmith, as a singer and actor,  created many of the best known Gilbert and Sullivan roles on stage).	1999-12-22
US	50891381	R2CVKWRFODQGR9	0393040178	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A blend of sweeping overview and illuminating insight	This is an extended and masterful analysis of the issue stated in the title, carried by what is no less than an economic history of the world, in so far as many parts of it ever had an economy to speak of. Vast though the  scope may be, the author's assurance never falters, finding the right  balance between sweeping overview and illuminating insight. His views are  often fresh and arresting - as for example when he identifies the  technological factors in Medieval Europe that laid the foundation for  take-off and sustained economic and industrial growth from the fifteenth  century onwards. He is particularly impressive on the theme of why the West  achieved worldwide dominance in the last half-millennium, not just in terms  of outright power and wealth but of thought and values also, and on why  potential competitors, such as China and India, got left behind. The  treatment of the First and Second Industrial Revolutions, and of the  relative fall and rise of Britain and Germany in the process, is especially  enjoyable. Also effective is the treatment of the success of Japan in  making the transition to an industrialised society, this being very  interestingly counterpointed with the failure of Mohammed Ali's Egypt to do  the same. One's enjoyment of the book is enhanced by the fact that the  writer does not hesitate to state his case with strength and conviction,  and is obviously not concerned with concessions to transient fashions in  historical retrospectivity. One may not agree with each and every opinion  or viewpoint but it is a pleasure to see them expounded with such  conviction, energy and elegance. In summary, a marvellous book not just to  read once through but to treasure for dipping into and referring to in the  years ahead.	1999-12-17
US	50891381	R1X421VSK576T7	0679425411	227222206	The Killer Angels	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Masterpiece	Though so many have written before me in praise of this splendid novel that my words must be redundant, I am still impelled to hit the keyboard as an act of homage. The writer's achievement must be almost unique in that he  unites an accurate, hour by hour, depiction of an actual military event  with a novelist's treatment of character and motivation. Other than the  Borodino section of &quot;War and Peace&quot; it is difficult to think of  any similar achievement. The depiction of the individual characters has an  uncanny immediacy and realism, and it is character that dominates the  action rather than vice versa. Two set pieces dominate the novel -  Chamberlain's defence of Little Round Top on the second day of Gettysburg,  and Pickett's Charge on the third. The description of the latter fearsome  but heroic blunder, as seen through the eyes of the noble and doomed Lewis  Armistead, is so powerful, terrible and yet beautiful that this reader at  least was too moved to read on immediately. Though concentrated on the  three days of the battle, the ultimate themes are not war and generalship,  but rather of honour, courage, integrity and love. These themes are seldom  treated with such seriousness and dignity in modern popular culture, and we  are the worse for it. One comes to the end of the book with a feeling of  catharsis, conscious that despite all that may be thrown against us, and  regardless of how often we may stumble on the way, mankind is capable of  greatness. A wonderful book.	1999-12-17
US	50891381	R2V93KD6LPSKYD	0140861742	127324672	The History of Mr Polly (Classic, 20th-Century, Audio)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Superficially Comic but Grim and Hopeless Beneath	Mr.Polly is one of H.G. Wells' novels of contemporary society, albeit with a comic dimension, detailing the escape of an archtypical &quot;little man&quot; from a life of quiet desperation. It is splendidly read by Clive  Swift, an inspired choice, who by his voice inflexions and range of accent  conveys brilliantly the ethos of precarious respectability and suffocating  normality in which the anti-hero lives. This reading of the novel conveys  the very feel of that lost lower-middle class, pre-World War I, world of  minute social gradations, of stifling conformity and of emerging awareness  of the potential for change through education and science. Hearing it some  nine decades on one is very uncomfortably aware that this entire world is  about to be scorched away and that the young shop-assistants and tradesmen  who populate it have an appointment with destiny in the Pals' Battalions  they will flock to when Armageddon looms. Wells' portrayal of the nuances  of this world is sharply delineated, reflecting direct personal experience,  and the frequent comedy never obscures the accuracy of the observation.  Despite the humour - bordering on the farcical in Mr.Polly's confrontation  with the dreaded Uncle Jim - there is a hollow centre to the story. Mr.  Polly may escape one round of futility, but the liberation he discovers is  scarcely more life or spirit-enhancing than that which he left behind. The  book ends with Mr.Polly (it is notable that one still cannot drop the Mr.,  that defining badge of respectability) achieving a degree of animal  contentment but still oppressed by a sense of the futility of existence. In  this, as in his Science Fiction, Wells' vision is barren and hopeless. He  was capable, as almost no other writer before or since, of visualising  material progress with uncanny accuracy, but he missed any sense of the  potential and grandeur of the human spirit. It is this that makes this  story, though superficially enjoyable, finally so unsatisfactory.	1999-12-14
US	50891381	R33SWCN0AXZPQU	0679416099	471508645	Fisher's Face; or,: Getting to Know the Admiral	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An unclassifiable book on a unique genius!	This book is a delight. It does not fit easily into the categories of history, biography or psychology, and yet it has elements of all of them. The author has obviously written it for sheer personal pleasure and this  sense of fun - of which the splendid Jacky Fisher himself would have  thoroughly approved - is communicated to the reader.  It is no fault of the  writer that Fisher remains an enigma at the end of it, a man of vast  contradictions, enthusiasms, energy, genius and simplicity, but the journey  is enjoyable on every page. Fisher was a force of nature who tackled every  challenge, regardless of size, with zest, verve and originality and the  story of his whirlwind career, and his transformation of the Royal Navy has  much of the epic about it. Few men can have had greater vision, or a  greater gift for grasping the potential of technology for transforming  organisations and national destinies. Much of what he did and said could  serve as a textbook for today's business schools - while the rest might  have marked him for a straitjacket. For all his greatness however, he was  diminished by his last years and by Churchill's disastrous decision to  recall him to the Admiralty soon after the outbreak of the First World War.  Old, and by now unstable, his tenure was marked by huge miscalculations and  personal behaviour that swung erratically between the inspired and the  lunatic. Those who enjoy this unique book will be no less delighted by  Fisher's idiosyncratic memoirs - entitled &quot;Memories&quot; - which are  an eccentric and haphazard collection of ideas, reminiscences and dictums  (slogans might be a better word). This is long out of print, but well worth  the seeking.	1999-11-26
US	50891381	RNXA6G1JY6Z7B	0935526668	375083055	The Flag Captain (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 11)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Frustrating Bonaparte's Knavish Tricks in the Mediterranean!	In 1797 Richard Bolitho is back in the Mediterranean after his recent foray to the West Indies. He is now captain of the flag-ship of an inflexible and rule-bound Admiral whose approach is totally unsuited to a  fluid strategic situation in which initiative and imagination are  essential. The need for acquiring a base inside the Mediterranean prompts  an expedition to capture a North-African fortress, giving Bolitho once more  the opportunity to engage in the land-attack operations in which he excels.  There is however plenty of action afloat as well, the most exciting part of  which is the defence of an already shattered and half-sinking transport  against a swarm of oared-galleys manned by ferocious Barbary corsairs.  Apart from the hazards ashore and afloat, and the frustrations represented  by his superior, Bolitho has to cope with an admirable but dangerous French  enemy agent and a British political representative whose motives and  objectives are unclear to say the least. It's also satisfying to see  Bolitho's protge Inch, whose self-confidence and capabilities he so  carefully nurtured in earlier years, now coming into his own as the very  effective commander of a bomb vessel. The story ends with the British  position in the Mediterranean still weak - but there is light on the  horizon, and the following year will see Nelson turning the tables - and  there will be a role for Bolitho. In summary, a thoroughly enjoyable naval  yarn.	1999-11-26
US	50891381	RAABMSPKABILI	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	3	36	49	N	N	A disappointing treatment of an epic theme	Leopold II's acquisition and ruthless exploitation of the Congo as a personal fief was an undertaking that was simultaneously epic and squalid. Untold hundreds of thousands of Africans - perhaps even millions, the  statistics are uncertain - died under conditions of the most appalling  suffering to satisfy this egomaniac's greed. Worse still, the whole callous  process, which descended at times into orgiastic sadism, was aided and  abetted by a range of administrators, business interests and even  missionaries. Leopold dominates the narrative, a malign, hypocritical and  wealth-obsessed spider at the centre of a vast web of his own making, busy  until the last in creating schemes of breath-taking ambition and of true,  unadulterated evil, never visiting the lands he made a hell, never  glimpsing the wretches whose lives he ruined. Villains outnumber the heroes  in the story by a substantial margin, and the efforts of the magnificent  trio of E.D. Morel, Roger Casement and the shipping magnate John Holt to  expose the scandal and end the abuses were rewarded with only qualified  success. This book covers the basic facts of the story, often in a somewhat  sketchy manner, and one longs repeatedly for more detail and for imposition  of a firmer chronological sequence on the events described. The writing  lacks a real sense and feel for Africa, its landscapes and its peoples, and  indeed Thomas Packenham's treatment of the same topic in his &quot;The  Scramble for Africa&quot;, though more summary, is considerably more  convincing and rewarding. An interesting footnote is that when Irish forces  went to the Congo in 1960 as part of the UN response to the secession of  Katanga, they did so as &quot;The Casement Brigade&quot; and the airbase  near Dublin they flew out from has been known thereafter as the  &quot;Casement Airfield&quot;.  One feels that the old champion of  Congolese rights and of Irish independence would have approved fully.	1999-11-23
US	50891381	R1HI8IKFAEKXE5	0671201174	295476656	Kings Depart	Books	5	20	20	N	N	History as it should be written!	I first read this book, in almost one session, when it first appeared in 1970. Since then I've reread it several times and have recommended it to countless friends, and to my children, who have been as delighted with it  as I was. It provides a superb - and exciting - overview of a period little  covered in English. It must stand as one of the classics of 20th Century  Narrative history. If you enjoy this, then also seek our Watt's &quot;Dare  Call It Treason&quot; on the French Army Mutinies of 1917, which is another  splendid treat for history enthusiasts	1999-10-03
US	50891381	RWA4EOJ0KUWWU	0553295780	967191437	Fugitive Nights	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Enjoyable - and yet could have been better!	Though apparently ignored by critics in favour of many shallower and more pretentious &quot;serious&quot; authors, Joseph Wambaugh stands out as one of the few novelists today who deals with serious themes and describes  reality as many of us know it. Much of the activity in his work may sound  farcical, and the characters and language coarse, yet the underlying theme  is always profound, even disturbing. Wambaugh des not hesitate to project  (subtly, and disguised by a hardshell worldwiseness) a strong sense of  morality and responsibility. This man is not afraid to take a stand on what  ultimately he believes is right and wrong - nor, albeit reluctantly, like  Luther at Worms, do his characters. They confront realities that most of  the rest of us don't even want to acknowledge exist and they do necessary  and unpleasant jobs with decency, courage and humour. &quot;Fugitive  Nights&quot; reflects some of these themes, but less so than in earlier  classics like &quot;The Choirboys&quot; and the unbearably poignant  &quot;Glitter Dome&quot;. It's nevertheless worth reading - and very  entertaining - but could have been better. Don't despair however -  &quot;Finnegan's Week&quot; sees Wambaugh back on form.	1999-10-02
US	50891381	R32Q0N4R2IDPXQ	1853672467	610848119	1812 The Great Retreat: Told by the Survivors	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Third of A Three Volume Epic: Getting Back	In this final volume of the trilogy horror is piled on horror as the remnants of the Grand Armee, of its camp followers, and of the pathetic survivors of the pre-war French colony in Moscow struggle westwards through  snow and ice, dogged at every step by swarms of Cossacks and the focus of  converging Russian armies. Almost every page finds heights of human heroism  and sacrifice contrasted with extreme examples of cowardice, selfishness  and cruelty. One always knew that the Retreat from Moscow was an  unparalleled disaster, but until one reads this fusing of so many  first-hand accounts once never realised just how bad it was. The collapse  of discipline, hope and decency is graphically depicted yet in the midst of  it perhaps the greatest surprise is how effectively some units, not always  necessarily elite ones, still managed to stage effective defensive and  rearguard actions, without which the disaster would have even more total.  (Readers will inevitably find close and indeed uncanny echoes of Anthony  Beevor's recent &quot;Stalingrad&quot;). The story is inevitably dominated  by Marshal Ney, who comes across as an even more magnificent  battlefield-commander than even his &quot;Bravest of the Brave&quot; title  suggests, but Prince Eugene Beauharnais, runs him a close second as a  splendid, resourceful and indomitable leader in adversity. The pace of the  narrative never lets up and indeed the chapters surrounding the loss of the  Berezina bridge to the Russians and the subsequent efforts to get the  survivors across by improvised field bridging, in appalling conditions,  achieve an almost unbearable level of suspense. It is a measure of the  writing that, though one knows the outcome, one still hopes page by page  that some miracle will still happen. Many of the personalities whose  accounts feature in the earlier volumes appear here again, adding to the  reader's sense of familiarity. Like its predecessors, this volume cannot be  too highly recommended - it is a magnificent achievement and must surely  assume classic status.it is a magnificent achievement and must surely  assume classic status.	1999-09-21
US	50891381	RNHANZ0WVCLBF	1853671541	756128494	1812: The March on Moscow	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First of A Three Volume Epic: Getting There	This is the first of three volumes in which a huge number of personal recollections have been carefully sifted and appropriate extracts selected, and then merged into a continuous narrative. The result is a masterpiece.  &quot;The March&quot;, the opening volume, describes a military machine and  supporting administration unprecedented in human history, but just past the  peak of its power, embarking on a vast undertaking that has been wholly  underestimated in logistics, strategic and political terms. The most  surprising revelation, for this reader at least, was the extent to which  the disaster commenced almost from the moment that Napoleon's vast  multi-national force crossed the Niemen into Russian Territory. Supply  breakdowns and outright hunger were significant factors from the outset and  the Grand Armee's route eastwards in summer heat was littered with the  pathetic corpses of troops from a dozen countries who found suicide  preferable to the continued misery of the march. The capture of Smolenko  caused heavy losses, but these were minor compared with the hecatomb of  Borodino, a horrific slugging match at which Napoleonic tactical genius was  most notable by its absence. The first volume ends with the French entry  into an eerily deserted Moscow. Readers who enjoy this volume - a feast for  all Napoleonic and &quot;War and Peace&quot; enthusiasts - will want to go  on immediately to the two subsequent volumes dealing with the occupation of  Moscow and with the Retreat itself.	1999-09-21
US	50891381	RHZK6IKKEJP86	1853671959	236555218	1812 : Napoleon in Moscow	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Second of A Three Volume Epic: Being There	This is the second of three volumes, in which Mr. Britten-Austin paints a riveting picture of Napoleon's Russian Campaign in 1812. The concentration is on that part of the campaign aimed at Moscow, and the activities of  other forces, detached to address different targets, are only covered in so  far as they impact on the march on, stay-in and retreat from Moscow. A huge  number of personal recollections have been carefully sifted and appropriate  extracts selected, and then merged into a continuous narrative, linked  almost seamlessly together by Mr.Britten-Austin himself. The result is a  masterpiece. The feeling of immediacy is very pronounced and indeed at  times the events, harrowing in themselves, are so graphically described by  the participants that the reader has to pause, all but overcome by the  horror and pathos of the narrative. This volume is dominated by the  conflagration that engulfed most of Moscow immediately after the French  arrival, by Napoleon's dithering as he waits for Russian responses that  never come to his peace overtures, by Murat's starving forces confronting  increasing Russian resistance and by the fatal decision to lurch southwards  from Moscow with forces that have already been depleted by hunger and  disease, and demoralised by looting and growing breakdowns in discipline.  The volume ends with the Emperor's realisation, far too late, that a  victory in the field, in the Ukraine or elsewhere, is impossible in 1812  and that retreat is unavoidable. This is grim story of wishful thinking,  lack of realism and of a slide towards disaster. Few of the major players  come well out of it, other than Prince Eugene Beauharnais, Napoleon's  stepson, who in this and the subsequent volume, emerges as an admirable and  capable commander in very difficult circumstances. As with the other  volumes the footnotes (at the back of the book) are a joy, often packed  with detailed information that sheds significant illumination on the main  text.	1999-09-15
US	50891381	RWFM0WH79HSE	1853671541	756128494	1812: The March on Moscow	Books	5	8	8	N	N	First of A Three Volume Epic: Getting There	This is the first of three volumes, in which Mr. Britten-Austin paints a riveting picture of Napoleon's Russian Campaign in 1812. The concentration is on that part of the campaign aimed at Moscow, and the activities of  other forces, detached to address different targets, are only covered in so  far as they impact on the march on, stay-in and retreat from Moscow. A huge  number of personal recollections have been carefully sifted and appropriate  extracts selected, and then merged into a continuous narrative, linked  almost seamlessly together by Mr.Britten-Austin himself. The result is a  masterpiece. The feeling of immediacy is very pronounced and indeed at  times the events, harrowing in themselves, are so graphically described by  the participants that the reader has to pause, all but overcome by the  horror and pathos of the narrative.  &quot;The March&quot;, the opening  volume, describes a military machine and supporting administration  unprecedented in human history, but just past the peak of its power,  embarking on a vast undertaking that has been wholly underestimated in  logistics, strategic and political terms. The most surprising revelation,  for this reader at least, was the extent to which the disaster commenced  almost from the moment that Napoleon's vast multi-national force crossed  the Niemen into Russian Territory. Supply breakdowns and outright hunger  were significant factors from the outset and the Grand Armee's route  eastwards in summer heat was littered with the pathetic corpses of troops  from a dozen countries who found suicide preferable to the continued misery  of the march. The capture of Smolenko caused heavy losses, but these were  minor compared with the hecatomb of Borodino, a horrific slugging match at  which Napoleonic tactical genius was most notable by its absence. The first  volume ends with the French entry into an eerily deserted Moscow. Readers  who enjoy this volume - a feast for all Napoleonic and &quot;War and  Peace&quot; enthusiasts - will want to go on immediately to the two  subsequent volumes dealing with the occupation of Moscow and with the  Retreat itself.	1999-09-15
US	50891381	R1D4OLXDEQB1X6	1568361270	697623546	Like Hidden Fire: The Plot to Bring Down the British Empire	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Heroic but Bumbling: Kaiser Bill's Ineffectual Secret Agents	Though iron-willed, heroic and indefatigable, the agents whom Imperial Germany sent to destabilise the British Empire via its Islamic peoples and neighbours come across as a bumbling group of amateurs, none of them in the  Lawrence mould. The plots themselves, if such a collection of hare-brained,  ill-planned and poorly-supported ventures merit such a description, proved  incompetent in the extreme. The reader is left with conflicting feelings of  admiration for the agents'dedication and courage and of contempt, mingled  with pity, for their ineffectual blunderings outside their intellectual  depth and cultural sympathies. The story is an entertaining one however,  well told by Mr.Hopkirk, who must have gone to incredible lengths to gather  the material. At the end of it one realises that Richard Hanny and Sandie  Arbutnoth, not to mention Pieter Pienaar, could just as well have stayed at  home - the Germans would have done the job for them if left to their own  devices!	1999-09-07
US	50891381	RMOBLTUBX2D21	0750917873	937615549	The Anglo-Dutch Naval Wars 1652-1674	Books	2	15	16	N	N	The Bare Facts - and little else!	The three naval campaigns fought between England and the Dutch Republic in the mid-seventeenth century were significant both politically and technically. Logic and self-interest should have dictated that the two  great Protestant powers of the time never went to war with each other, but  it took three bruising conflicts before they realised that their interests  must be aligned in the face of the rising menace of Louis XIV's France.  These wars were characterised by almost continuous series of large-scale  battles involving huge numbers of ships. Hard experience exposed the  weakness of the &quot;melee&quot; tactics predominating initially and led  to experiments in the line-of-battle tactics and signalling systems which  would be the foundation for the great age of fighting sail in the next  century and a half. This book sketches the backgrounds to the three wars  and gives competent descriptions of the main actions, thereby filling a  need for an easily accessible book on this important period. The text's  main  weakness is however its brevity, which precludes any significant  contextual information on the fleets or the principal commanders, most of  whom we encounter as already mature and seasoned admirals. Little  information is provided on the way in which the fleets came into being  initially (how, after a decade of Civil War, did the English Commonwealth  come to have such a large and efficient fleet?) or how they were employed  immediately before, or between, the individual wars - the exploits of the  Dutch Navy being particularly interesting in this respect. The story is  full of colourful personalities - Blake, Tromp, de Ruyter, Evertsen, Monck,  Sandwich, Prince Rupert, the de Witt Brothers and the future James II, but  we learn nothing of their backgrounds or development prior to the events  described. The book is well illustrated, and many of the pictures by the  v/d Veldens, father and son, essentially official war artists to the Dutch  Navy, make onelong for more information on this fascinating duo and their  working methods. A second edition of the book would benefit from the  addition of &quot;boxes&quot; in the text with information on these main  players, as well as on the navies themselves. The overall verdict is that  this book is a missed opportunity - and an expensive one to boot, for its  length - but it nevertheless does fill an empty niche. Those who buy it  will also enjoy Sir Arthur Bryant's brilliant trilogy on Pepys, who played  such a significant role in the latter two conflicts and who's eyewitness  testimony is so invaluable.	1999-08-31
US	50891381	RGN0SLZ93O90T	1570982473	610977285	Freedom's Sword: Scotland's Wars of Independence	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Misery of Medieval Life in England and Scotland	This is an excellent single-volume history of the Anglo-Scottish Wars in the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries. It strips away the clouds of romantic distortion and sentimentality which for a century and a  half have surrounded historical figures such as William Wallace and Robert  Bruce and which have more recently been perpetuated on the silver screen.  The conflict between the ruling families of England and Scotland are  objectively explained in their dynastic and historic contexts, and where  emergent nationalist sentiments played a role these are not exaggerated out  of proportion. Mr.Traquair steers the reader with a sure hand through the  complexities of family relationships and medieval concepts of sovereignty,  loyalty and justice. He is no less assured in dealing with the military  aspects of the endless series of miserable campaigns involved and in  keeping interest up throughout. This is a grim tale of treachery, greed and  slaughter on a vast scale and it is a tribute to the author that he so  convincingly conveys the nature and mentality of a society that accepted  this state of affairs as the norm for its existence over decades. In its  credible recreation of the medieval period this book has much in common  with Zoe Oldenbourg's histories of the First to Third Crusades (&quot;The  Crusades&quot;) and of the Albigensian Crusade (&quot;Massacre at  Montsegur)&quot;.	1999-08-25
US	50891381	R3GNWT0DWY23MP	185479390X	260063674	Battle for Empire: The Very First World War 1756-63	Books	4	19	19	N	N	British Global Strategy and Rapid Deployment 1756-63	Tom Pocock correctly identifies the Seven Years War (1756-63) as &quot;The First World War&quot; and gives a very readable account of how Britain waged it outside Continental Europe. The focus is however purely on this  aspect and, as such, the campaigns on the European Continent, including the  spectacular role played by Prussia, are excluded. The sheer geographic  scale and the vaunting ambition of British policies are however well  conveyed as well as the brilliant strategies underlying the first war to be  fought with truly global objectives. As well as the better-known campaigns  such as &quot;The French-Indian War&quot; in North America, Clives's  amazing conquests in India and Byng's disastrous manoeuvres off Minorca  (that led to his execution by firing squad &quot;to encourage the  others&quot;), there are fascinating accounts of less familiar undertakings  such as the operations of the author's own kinsman in the Indian Ocean and  the captures of Manila and Havana by British expeditionary forces. The  Havana operation, which finally succeeded at a horrendous cost in deaths  from disease as well as military action, is an epic that would merit a book  in its own right.  Though satisfying as far as it goes, once feels that the  author missed an opportunity in &quot;Battle for Empire&quot; in not  expanding the scope to cover the whole war, on all fronts. There is a gap  in the market for a readable single-volume narrative history of the war,  ideally written with the easy style, lively depiction of personalities and  colourful anecdotes which Mr.Pocock provides in this one.	1999-08-23
US	50891381	R3Q66W7GCB6ND4	0684814927	565025485	Shovel Of Stars: The Making of the American West 1800 to the Present	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Birth and Adolescence of a Nation!	I have never read a book by Ted Morgan (or his previous incarnation as Sacha de Gramont - note the anagram!) that was not well-written, entertaining and highly informative.  He writes about a very wide range of  topics and it seems to be impossible to guess what his next work will deal  with. This excellent book describes the process whereby the areas west of  the Appalacians that became United States post-1800 were initially  acquired, how they were incorporated as Territories and finally, how they  achieved full statehood. The sequence would be interesting, but presumably  familiar, for most US citizens, but for the non-North American the story is  totally fascinating. Morgan does not just deal with the official  governmental processes but also with the human and sociological aspects of  the settlement and development of these vast areas. He intertwines a huge  number of personal reminiscences - ranging from the heroic to the tawdry,  from the tragic to the hilarious, from the inspiring to the outright  indecent - into his narrative, such that it the story comes alive. Having  read the book right through once with great pleasure, I find it afterwards  to be a splendid tome to dip into at spare moments. It's an excellent  bedside companion or a gift for a historically-oriented friend. Practically  every page is a delight.	1999-08-23
US	50891381	R2SN9GFEAW3RP4	1568490275	315640613	Form Line of Battle (Richard Bolitho Novels)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Action ashore and afloat in a desperate strategic situation!	Napoleon's star is starting to rise from the chaos of Revolutionary France as Richard Bolitho, with his first ship-of-the-line command, joins the Royal Navy force off Toulon. He finds himself once more dogged by  unimaginative and flawed superiors, but nevertheless is successful in  capturing an island base, and of establishing a foothold on the French  Mediterranean coast with the help of French loyalist sympathisers. Bolitho  acquits himself admirably throughout, rising to the challenges of higher  command, but the overall strategic situation is running very strongly  against the British. The story culminates in a major fleet action which is  splendidly described, the sheer horror and terror of close action on wooden  ships coming across very strongly. The political context, particularly the  plight of civilians caught in what amounts to a civil war between the  Revolutionary Government and the Royalists and their foreign allies,  provides an interesting backdrop to much of the action. Characters from  earlier stories play a significant (and in one case, wholly unexpected)  part in the story, and Bolitho finds true love with a new one. In summary,  another excellent entertainment in the best Alexander Kent tradition.	1999-08-19
US	50891381	REXGD2XRT1D12	0935526498	111780194	To Glory We Steer (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 5)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mutiny, betrayal and batlle in the West Indies in the 1780's	Though Richard Bolitho is old enough and experienced enough to be taking on his first frigate command as this book opens, it is in fact the first of the Bolitho novels to have been published. A tyrannical previous captain  has driven the crew to the edge of mutiny and as Bolitho sails for the West  Indies for the closing stages of the American War of Independence his own  crew is as much a threat to him as is the enemy. A skilfully handled  American Privateer almost brings Bolitho's career to a premature end and  the identity of its captain is such as to rub salt in the wound. Despite  all, Bolitho battles back with courage, indomitability and humane  leadership and forges his crew and ship into a single weapon that comes  victoriously through the decisive Battle of the Saintes, the last of the  war. One stalwart supporter of Bolitho makes his exit in glory while  another, Allday, makes his first appearance in a most dramatic way. All the  best features of the other novels in the series  - convincing  characterisation, absorbing technical detail, exciting action sequences and  a strong plot line - are apparent in this earliest-published adventure.	1999-08-18
US	50891381	R1IYN9BWBGWIE3	0935526420	632911262	Stand Into Danger (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 2)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Intrigue and Adventure in the West Indies in the 1770's	Richard Bolitho, newly promoted to lieutenant comes close to death in this splendid yarn and he sustains the wound that leaves him with the scar on his forehead that he ever afterwards tries to hide by a lock of hair. We  also learn how he first encounters his faithful coxwain Stockdale,  displaying in the process the humanity and generosity that will  characterise him in later life. The response of a young man to increasing  responsibility, and to the aloof but careful guidance of a seasoned  commander, is well conveyed in the story and with the assistance of a  beautiful Portuguese Bolitho comes of age in more ways than one. Experience  of a complex landing-operation on an island controlled by a renegade Royal  Navy officer also yields experience that will stand him in good stead for  future adventures. This was the first Bolitho story I read and it hooked me  into tracking down all the others I could in the series. I have read them  as far as possible in chronological order and this adds to the pleasure, as  Kent handles Bolitho's maturing as a man and a commander skilfully and  convincingly.	1999-08-18
US	50891381	R2W3UN4ORINPHN	0899669743	382406009	Sloop of War (Richard Bolitho Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A rattling good tale of courage and initiative under fire.	In the later years of the American Revolutionary War Richard Bolitho has his first significant command, a trim, fast and deadly slop of war, the smallest class of square rigged vessel in service. His objective is  interception and destruction of French supplies to the American and French  Armies and his main area of duty is in the Bahamas and the north-eastern  West Indies. As always in the  Kent novels secondary characters are  interesting and contribute significantly to the development of the plot and  the mechanics of sailing operations are realistically described, without  the detail becoming overwhelming. A young man's delight in his independent  command, and his dawning realisation that he is in fact good at what he  does, is well conveyed. An act of betrayal by an immediate superior,  leading to a court-martial, and an equally stinging betrayal by a society  beauty who humiliates him, mature Bolitho rapidly. The novel culminates in  the events surrounding the Battle of the Virginia Capes and the British  surrender at Yorktown. My only gripe with this book, and its predecessors  &quot;In Gallant Company&quot; and &quot;To Glory We Steer&quot;, is that  Kent compresses Bolitho's American War service into only three novels.  There must have been other possibilities - e.g. the young Bolitho would  have been the ideal man to have confronted Arnold's fleet of gundelos on  the lakes as the British pushed southwards from Canada for their  appointment at Saratoga!	1999-08-18
US	50891381	R3DX9XLB7BAYP0	0935526501	448098623	Command a King's Ship (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 6)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	High Adventure in East Indian Waters in the 1780's!	Richard Bolitho is saved from peacetime idleness in the period between the end of the American War of Independence and the start of the French Revolutionary War by being assigned a frigate mission to the East Indies. The objective is to found a colony in an area disputed with other colonial  powers, but the greatest challenge comes from an experienced French captain  who, with his ship, has been seconded to the service of a ruthless local  potentate. Action on both sea and land is violent and bloody and, as usual  in these stories, the technical detail and historic context are conveyed in  a wholly convincing manner. Bolitho's woes are compounded by an unhelpful  British political agent and in the midst of all the turmoil still manages  to commence a secret love affair. The story builds up to a splendid climax  in which Bolitho's faithful friend Herrick, who appears in many novels of  the series, emerges as the principal hero of the story. A rattling good  read that is hard to put down.	1999-08-18
US	50891381	RYQHYUJ2AOF48	0899669735	347437696	In Gallant Company (Richard Bolitho Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Royal Navy frustrates Washington &amp; those damn Yankees!	The action in this novel covers the early years of the American War of Independence and the Royal Navy's Richard Bolitho is involved in a series of operations, mainly in small sailing units, aimed at preventing French  supplies reaching the American forces. Much of the action takes place very  close inshore and Kent conveys very effectively the nerve-racking nature of  manoeuvring in shallow water and adverse winds. The political background is  particularly well conveyed and we see it through the eyes of a  conscientious young British officer, who is more concerned with doing his  own immediate job well than with the rights and wrongs of the greater  conflict. It is indeed one of the strengths of Kent in this and in later  novels that he does not try to graft modern views and values on to his  characters. Bolitho, though a humane and decent man, and an inspiring and  tough leader, who does not shirk from the use of the cat when it is  merited, is nevertheless a man of his own time and not ours.  It is this  stepping back into a internally-consistent recreation of the past, in its  values and attitudes as well as its outward forms, that is one of the great  attractions of this series of novels.	1999-08-18
US	50891381	R1GKAGD41U0PE	0385477090	302329004	The Life of Thomas More	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Not only a biography but another age brought alive.	I had enjoyed Richard Marius's 1985 biography of More enormously, as giving an insight into More's thinking - and particularly how a clever, generous and decent man could see it as his duty to be a persecutor of  perceived heretics. Ackroyd's biography goes even further, addressing not  only More's intellectual and spiritual development, but also giving a  lively feeling of the daily realities of the world in which he lived and  worked. More's &quot;job challenge&quot; as a lawyer, diplomat and  statesman is particularly well explained and the descriptions of his  surroundings, and of his friends and colleagues, add powerfully to the  sense of immediacy - even familiarity - which is created. More's final  dilemma, which will bring him to the scaffold, is skillfully placed in the  context of his spiritual development over earlier years, so that when it  arises his inability to chose any road other than he does appears wholly  inevitable. In its recreation of the mentality of a figure of another age,  this biography approaches the stark immediacy and credibility usually only  achieved in the fiction of the highest order, such as the novels of Zoe  Oldenburg. As such I was strongly remined of the portrayal of the  Albegensian mind, conscience and dilemmas in Oldenburg's &quot;Destiny of  Fire&quot;.	1999-07-24
US	50891381	R178Y8JWZ8C1	155750640X	924015920	Nelson and the Nile: The Naval War Against Bonaparte 1798	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A history more exciting than most novels!	This single volume combines the story of Nelson's hamstringing of Bonaparte's Egyptian and Middle Eastern ambitions with a lively overview of the mechanics and organisation of naval power at the apogee of the age of  sail. The narrative shifts rapidly between the French and British  viewpoints and the technical, sociological and organisational  interpolations never interrupt the flow. The tension builds up rapidly as  the ramshackle French task-force heads south and east, occupying Malta on  the way, and as Nelson's squadron gropes to find it, encountering near  disaster off Sardinia. Correctly guessing Egypt as the French destination  Nelson then heads east - but chance and mischance ensure that Bonaparte  will have landed his forces and conquered Egypt before the French fleet is  trapped by Nelson at its Aboukir anchorage. The description of the battle  is both exciting and terrifying, and the close insights that Lavery has  previously given into the characters of the individual captains as well as  admirals make the reader identify closely with those involved. The  idealogical differences between the protagonists run as an important, but  never explicit, subtext and the contrast between French improvisation and  the ruthless professionalism of the British add an extra dimension. This is  history in the grand narrative tradition and it reads as easily, and as  enjoyably, as the naval novels of Forrester, kent and O'Brien. A splendid  read - highly recommended.	1999-07-24
