US	50891084	R11A3QV0H3MFZS	0345423135	113408571	The Magic Circle	Books	3	17	17	N	N	fun, but pointless	Neville writes in the whole mystery/thriller/conspiracy theory genre that has become so popular these days. Her books are very similar to Dan Brown's - with the same intense pace and focus on both sacred and secular mysteries. In fact The Magic Circle has many of the same elements as does The Da Vinci Code (although Neville's book was published first).<br /><br />The book centers around a young scientist, Ariel, who recently inherited a strange manuscript from her cousin. This event sparks an adventure as others rush to gain possession of those documents. The story tells of her attempts to protect those documents while trying to discover what their significance is. As Ariel gains knowledge of history, she discovers that her strange family history is wrapped up in the significance of the papers. The reader is treated to an intricate story of history, mythology, faith, and power. Tales of Christ, Mary Magdalgne, and Joseph of Arimathea weave together with that of the Ceasars and Hitler. The relentless search for the truth turns Ariel's perception of history and her family upside down.<br /><br />Although the complex story was fun to read, it ended up as being just a mess. It was complex just to be complex. The end resolution was very rushed and disappointing. All of the significant religious, mythic, and scientific relevations were pointless in the end. The book fell ito the predictable pattern of gnostic fiction - the concept of the existence of secret knowledge became more important that the knowledge itself. In addition as each new level of the family relationship in the book unfolded, the story became more and more unbelievable. I was reminded of the TV show Alias - where everyone has two or three secret identities. It becomes too unbelievable after a time.<br /><br />I would recommend this book only if you really like the genre and are hungry for an intricate story. Neville's novel The Eight is much better, as are other intellectual thrillers such as those by Dan Brown, Umberto Eco, or Arturo Perez-Reverte.Eco, or Arturo Perez-Reverte.	2005-06-27
US	50891084	R29J7F978NEHIB	0345428501	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	what happened to the characters!?	After last year's Star by Star, I was expecting a blow you away, totally awesome book.  But what I found was a rather perfunctory novel that did advance the universe, but seemed almost reluntant to do so.  Yes, I liked all that happened at the end, but that was basically all that happened in the book.  It seemed like the whole rest of the book was just build up for one big scene at the end.<br />But I could deal with weak plots, but what really got me was the way the characters fell short.  It does seem like Williams ignored all the other novels and the leaps of development that the characters went through in those books.  Jaina instead of recovering from her dark path, is in full of denial and suppression of emotions.  No spark, just ice.  Han and Leia were more like side show entertainment.  What I really hated was that Jacen seemed to not have gone through the whole philosophical/spiritual journey that we found in Traiter.  I understand that Williams most likely didn't have that whole novel to work off of due to publishing schedules, but to change a character so much is just wrong.  Jacen is back to being an almost happy-go-lucky &quot;I love the new republic&quot; kid.  None of the resolve at the end of Traiter for teaching the Jedi new things.  But I guess that's what &quot;Force Heretic&quot; will be about???<br />I'm not saying I hated the book.  It was in many ways a fun read (it is Star Wars!). It is a must read for the NJO series and I can't wait to see how the universe will play out after this.  But it didn't live up to my expectations of a NJO hardback.	2002-10-16
US	50891084	R18ANEHZ1CESFT	0812584236	783147561	The Farseekers: The Obernewtyn Chronicles - Book Two (The Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of my favorite books	This second book in the Obernewtyn Chronicles is a fantastic sequel and a joy to read in and of itself.  While the first book, Obernewtyn, kept to a typical first book style (i.e. it could have stood alone as a single book), The Farseekers takes its place as part of an ongoimg story.<br />For background, the world that Carmody has created is a post-apoctalyptic one.  The consequences of the Great White, as it is called in the books, are rampent.  Besides tainted land and water, there are numerous mutations amoungst the people of the land, both physical and mental.  In the land, there exists an oppressive Council to control the people and the mutations with a strict hand.  These books tell the story of a special group whose mutations have given them special mental abilities (esp, ability to talk with animals...). At their mountain home at Obernewtyn, they must hide from the Council, but also fulfill their goal of making Misfits (as they are called) acceptable in the land.  Obernewtyn has become a haven for such Misfits and there they are trained to use their talent well.<br />But the main character, Elspeth Gordie, has a mission that goes beyond her fellow Misfits' plans.  No one but her knows about it, and even she is not all clear on the details.  It is in The Farseekers that she discovers more about who she is and what she has been called to do.<br />So The Farseekers tells of Elspeth's mission and of the plans and purposes of Obernewtyn - which for now are bound together. The adventures that Elspeth and company engage in are exciting and are meaningful due to the ultimate purposes of the group.  It is the story of a quest across land and water to find an old library and a very powerful Misfit.  As they journey, they meet others in the land who oppose the Council as well as face the harsh realities of danger and death.  As one reads, one realizes the significance of details mentioned in book 1.  New characters and new plots are revealed and new relationships form.<br />The strong points of the book, besides a really great story, are the details and the character development. Isobelle Carmody has a fantastic way with details.  Everything has a purpose in her books, which is hard to realize during the first reading.  By the end of the second book, and most certainly by the end of the subsequent books, one absolutely has to reread the earlier books. In addition, the characters in the books are very real.  Carmody describes them in many facets - physically, emotionally, intellectually ... etc.  One becomes attached to the characters very quickly and (at least for me) I feel like I am Elspeth as I read.  It is almosr painful to finish the book because I so want to be back in her world, in her place.  Conversations are realistic.  For example, three, simple, short words said by one character to another near the end of The Farseekers (you'll know them when you read them) are in my mind the most tender and emotionally wonderful words I have ever read.<br />Buy this book, buy all the books and read them over and over again.  Enjoy them.  I can't praise them enough.  This is the best fantasy series I have ever read.<br />(Book 4 is only available from Australia right now, and we are all desperatly awaiting book 5)<br />The strong points of the book, besides a really great story, are the details and the character development. Isobelle Carmody has a fantastic way with details.  Everything has a purpose in her books, which is hard to realize during the first reading.  By the end of the second book, and most certainly by the end of the subsequent books, one absolutely has to reread the earlier books. In addition, the characters in the books are very real.  Carmody describes them in many facets - physically, emotionally, intellectually ... etc.  One becomes attached to the characters very quickly and (at least for me) I feel like I am Elspeth as I read.  It is almosr painful to finish the book because I so want to be back in her world, in her place.  Conversations are realistic.  For example, three, simple, short words said by one character to another near the end of The Farseekers (you'll know them when you read them) are in my mind the most tender and emotionally wonderful words I have ever read.<br />Buy this book, buy all the books and read them over and over again.  Enjoy them.  I can't praise them enough.  This is the best fantasy series I have ever read.<br />(Book 4 is only available from Australia right now, and we are all desperatly awaiting book 5)	2002-01-30
US	50891084	R2M7C3AXPEPXRG	0689828179	890470077	King of Shadows	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A new world	With this novel, I think that Cooper has created a fun and original work.  It is a story of a boys acting company who travel to London to preform at the rebuilt Globe Theater.  For one boy, the trip involves not just a voyage across the Atlantic, but a journey in time as well.  Nat Field finds himself back in Elizabethian London acting in the role of Puck in Shakespeare's personal production of A Midsummer's Night Dream.<br />This odd transposition in time allows for some interesting interaction with the setting.  For a twentieth century boy, the London of Shakespeare's day is a strange world.  Having no modern convieniences (such as toilets) and having the drink at every meal be ale are things that don't fit the everyday life of a young American boy.  But Nat gets along and proves himself as an actor in Shakespeare's own production.<br />Given the general elements of this book, not all young readers would enjoy it. To identify with or even to like the main character, one cannot by a typical American kid.  The theatrical world and the ability to understand the historical setting of Shakespeare's time are, unfortunately, completely foreign to most kids these days.  So this book is not for the typical nintendo-playing sports-loving kid, but rather for the imaginitive book-lover.  (For the book is full of imagination and history.)<br />The book isn't perfect, but it is still a fun read.  As an adult reader, I wished that I could have read more about the purpose behind the time travel, but I realize that what was written is sufficient for a younger audience.  So, as a young adult novel, it is a great book, well worth the read.	2001-10-24
US	50891084	R77FT29FZTGM3	0812535030	968038285	Summer King, Winter Fool	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautiful details of a new world	Goldstein has created a beautiful novel about a world wonderfully different than ours, but which still reminds us of our own.  This is a kingdom whose power structure is full of courtly intrigue, ambition, and trivialities.  The main religion of this land is the worship of the two gods who rule summer and winter.  Each god rules for six months and then is challenged by the other who climbs up the ladder to claim his rule in heaven while the other descends to exile on earth.  The society worships the ascended god and themselves strive to ascend the ladder in whatever way they can.<br />The story one finds here is of one man who comes to realize the absurdity of the court's ambitions and games, but who, at the same time, discovers that he is the one legal heir to the throne.  The story of how he discovers himself and who his true friends are, and then how he comes to power are the main focus of the book.<br />What is so special about the book are the details the author has developed in order to create this world.  Besides a full description of the religious system, one reads of the history of social societies, festival traditions, and the mores behind acting in that country.  My favorite detail was that each courtier has a personal poet to entertain them and address court politics in verse form.  Some poets are truly poet-mages who, through poetry, can do great magic.<br />In reading this novel, one becomes engrossed in a strange world.  The description is so involved that one feels as if the world is real.  I very much enjoyed my read of this book, for although it is different that Goldstein's other novels, it is still very good.  It reminded me of a few of Patricia McKillip's works, so if you like her stuff I would recommend you reading this.	2001-10-18
US	50891084	R1VDGAP6PV29Q2	0688121667	995691391	Christmas Around the World	Books	4	67	70	N	N	Festive	This is a fun book and I would recommend it to anyone interested in Christmas.  The book looks at 12 countries around the world where Christmas is celebrated on a national scale.  One reads brief, but detailed, summaries of the Christmas events and traditions of those countries.  From religious celebrations to marketplace customs, and from tasty foods to fun crafts, one is presented with a vivid and enlightening picture of how poeple around the world celebrate the holiday.<br />The physical book itself is well made and festive.  Each page is colorful and has vibrant paintings of Christmas events in each culture.  The type is small, so parents would need to read this to their younger kids.  To help readers, the author has included a pronunciation guide in the back.  There is also a &quot;fact and fiction&quot; section about common Christmas things which serves as a reference for those who may never have heard of Epiphany or even Jesus Christ.  Fun and simple craft guidelines are also included.<br />While this is a book about Christmas, it is not a religious book (which disappointed me).  It mentions religious events associated with Christmas, but treats it holiday as if it is essentially a cultural event.  Nevertheless, it is a fun book that is very educational.  It would be a great book to have to bring out to display and enjoy at Christmastime.	2001-10-17
US	50891084	R2QSBYS45HZ2HG	038075567X	850396954	Unicorn and Dragon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Magic and history merge	I stumbled across this novel recently and found an interesting historical fantasy.  The setting is England in 1065 as the Saxon and Norman tensions are escalating.  The focus is on a Saxon family stronghold and the events that occur as war inches closer to their home and old way of life.<br />While the book has all of the raw details of such a rough age such as bloody fighting and the rowdy drinking of warroirs, the story is tamed and made interesting in that the women of the house are the main characters.  The two daughters, Alison and Wildecent, and their aunt, Lady Ygurna, are the ones who truly run the place and keep the men in order.  One reads of their story as their lives are changed by the shifting politics of the country.  This occurs quite suddenly when a young Norman, Stephen, is brought wounded into their home.  Both girls discover what intrigue and love mean as the result of his presense.<br />While the characters try to occupy the modern world of politics and Christianity, one soon realizes that an ancient Celtic magic is practiced secretly by the women.  This magic is hinted at throughout the book, but is shown fully as everything climaxes at the end.<br />Lynn Abbey has created a very realistic world in this novel.  One gets a good picture of Saxon life during this period.  The characters are personal and believable.  I think that this is a good read for anyone interested in this period where England hovered on the brink of a new era.	2001-10-16
US	50891084	RZLS4VOYROYBO	0812519515	425509734	Strange Devices of the Sun And Moon	Books	4	23	23	N	N	interesting mix of worlds	I picked up this book because I thought that a fantasy story set in the London of Elizabeth I would be an interesting read.  While I enjoyed it, I soon realized that such an extraordinary mix of genres and themes could not appeal to a very wide audience.  One finds in this world a very historical novel trying to merge with a typical fantasy story of the fairy world.  In the novel itself the merge is more of a clash than a smooth blend, and the same can be said for the literary style.  Given that I am a student of history and literature as well as a fantasy fan, I rather enjoyed the concept and had fun making my way through the process.<br />In the book, one is presented with a picture of Elizabethan London.  Court intrigue, meetings in pubs, bookselling rights, and the scare of the plague all are part of the basic setting.  The author has done her homework and seems at times to almost go out of her way to include some interesting tidbits of history.  Real figures from history, such as Christopher Marlowe and Thomas Kyd, make their way into the story. (But fear not, while the author does take liberties with these personalities, they are not subject to the same brutal misrepresentation as befell Chaucer in A Knight's Tale!)  Amidst this historical cast, one encounters Alice Wood - a widow who is struggling to keep her husband's business of bookselling running.  It is her missing son, Arthur, that draws the fairy folk to London and involves her and her friends in the battle between the light and dark fairy.<br />It took me awhile to really become involved in this story.  There are so many subplots at the beginning that one doesn't know which to follow or become attached to.  Nevertheless, they all are witty and entertaining and eventually one sees how they all fit together.  I enjoyed the story as it developed and appreciated the rich description and philosophical musings as well.  This book is not for everyone, but for those who find Elizabethian London and the fairy realm fasinating, I would highly recommend it.realm fasinating, I would highly recommend it.	2001-10-09
US	50891084	R3F4IFFAZBDZV4	0020421907	807414899	Seaward	Books	4	16	17	N	N	fun but predictable	As a Dark is Rising fan, I had to read Seaward.  I found that it fits the typical fantasy motif of the journey, but that the journey is the only plot that there is in the novel.<br />The book tells the story of Cally and West who, both having recently lost parents, stumble into a fantasy world where they meet up and brave the journey to the sea where they believe they will find their parents.  Along the way, they must face the challenges imposed on them by the Lady Tarnis who wants to imprison them in her land, as well as the natural hardships of the land (desert, mountains, rivers, snow).  As they travel they learn how to trust others, know themselves, and possibly fall in love.  While the journey is long and enlightening, the end comes abruptly and is resolved quickly.  While I was satisfied with the ending, it was a hollow satisfaction.<br />I liked the characters that I met in the book, but I wish that they had been developed more.  While I understand that the depth level was created for younger readers, I wanted the emotions and psychological musings to be developed further.  Since there was not much of a plot, the effects of the journey on the characters was the main element of the book and I just think more could have been done with it.<br />While the book does have its problems, it is still a really fun book.  I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys fantasy stories about journeys.	2001-10-05
US	50891084	R3H98BCHA0OMV1	0026429837	483988386	Food for Today,  Teacher's wraparound edition	Books	4	11	11	N	N	a great text	I found this to be a good introductory textbook for a middle/high school age food and nutrition class.  The text covers a wide range of topics related to food.  One finds chapters on healthy eating and lifestyle, being a vegitarian, how to design a kitchen, and food profiles from around the world.  Other chapters even discuss eating etiquette, buying food, and careers in food.  The text starts with the basics (this is a whisk...) for the kitchen and for food.  One is given profiles of food, nutritional information, and cooking ideas.  While it may seem too basic for students who have some knowledge of cooking, it does a good job of introducing it to those who have to knowledge of it at all.<br />The writing is informative and easy to read.  The text is well illustrated with bright drawings and photographs that expand on the written content.  I enjoyed the recipes that were chosen for each chapter - they looked fun and doable.  In all, this is a well balanced text that fulfills its purpose of presenting food for today.	2001-10-02
US	50891084	R960PN3TFFOJW	0689315724	810119384	The Sleep of Stone (Dragonflight Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A sweet story	I recently stumbled across The Sleep of Stone in my local library and thought it looked interesting.  My read of it turned out to be a predictable, but pleasant experience.<br />It is a very short novel about the origens of a local legend.  The shortness makes it an enjoyable quick read and the legend, although influenced by various fairy tales, is fresh and captivating.  The story is presented in a simple storytelling frame structure.  An old man encounters a young couple in a local romantic grotto and ends up telling them the sadly romantic legend associated with it of a young couple from years before and of the creature whose consuming love of the young man tried to destroy them.  It is a story sweetly told, but with a close eye to the deep emotions of the characters.<br />I found the actual tale of the Sleep of Stone to be the best part of the book.  The frame story was cute, but it was distracting.  It actually took me a few tries in starting the book because I couldn't get past that part.  While the end part is good, the beginning part (which sets up the real story) is not very captivating.<br />The real strength of the book was the way as a reader I was able to empathize with the characters' emotions.  The young love of the couple was evident, but most vivid were the feelings of the creature that tried to destroy that love.  The creature's obsessive love of the young man completely consumed her.  This burning desire pushes her to trick, murder, and unleash utter chaos at the young couple's wedding.  The passion is so real, it is disturbing.<br />The book follows a typical plotline for a fairytale type story, but it still is a touching and enjoyable read.  Pick it up for a short cozy evening and have fun.	2001-09-27
US	50891084	RECA4BIHW4KGM	0312860048	487574206	Juniper, Gentian, & Rosemary	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Mixed Feelings	I am a bit confused as to how I feel about this book.  I really loved the book as I read it; I became involved in the book and kept trying to find time to read it.  Nevertheless, I thought the ending was rather pitiful.<br />Titled for the three sisters in a family, most of this book is a fantastic &quot;day in the life&quot; picture of Gentian.  As the story is told we come to know her passion for and habit of doing astronomy, we see love, quirks, and tension in her family, her fasinating group of friends, her personable cat, and her mysterious next door neighbor.  Very little actually happens during thie first part of the book, but it is a great story.  Gentian exists in a highly intellectual world.  From her &quot;open school&quot; classes, to the parties with her friends, to dinner table conversations, Gentian's world is full of literary references, feminist education, and scientific instruction.  I fell in love with her world - it is the life that I always wished I had.<br />Despite the great beginning, the story fell apart at the end.  I found that part to be poorly written and rushed.  Although I was able to see the symbolism and apparent parallels with earlier parts of the book, it all seemed too contrived.  I was not convinced by Gentian's journey from strict naturalist to pseudo-supernaturalist.  The dichotomy as presented didn't work.  Her early naturalism consisted of a hatred of religion (with Christianity being the stereotypical whipping boy), but at the end she accepted Wiccan like magick.  The development was not smooth and the result was not credulous.<br />The result comes, I think, from having a really good writer who had great characters, settings and themes, but who couldn't manage to find a decent plot.  My suggestion is to read the book because parts of it are great, but just don't expect much from the plot.	2001-09-26
US	50891084	R1POZT0UR0ISZ5	0312869584	331782180	Obernewtyn (Obernewtyn Chronicles)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a pleasure to read	I have never had much desire to read post-apoctalyptic literature, so it took me awhile to actually get around to reading this book.  What I found was pleasantly surprising.  While the book is naturally full of anti-nuclear war sermonizing, it (thankfully) is not a story of bitter characters who spend most of their time whining about how bad things are.  Instead, I found a captivating introduction to a world of survivors who must live with the consequences of &quot;The Great White&quot;, but who are prevented from knowing anything about the era which created such weapons.  In fact, the ruling Council ascribes the event to their god and hence burns all mutants as further evidence of divine punishment.<br />The whole series focuses on a group of so-called Misfits whose mutations are mental and have allowed them to have unusual abilities (such as talking to animals and forms of ESP).  This book chronicles the events in which the characters discover their abilities and bind together to stand against those who would destroy them or use them to evil ends.<br />The story is told from the viewpoint of a very talented misfit, Elspeth.  Her personal struggles and fears are focus point of similar aspects in other characters.  It is a beautiful and deadly world in which she lives.  She must face poisons from the Great White, the restrictive Council, and the hatred of mutants.<br />This book begins the story of the fight against such evil.  Get all the books you can at once since you will want to get as much of this story in as you can.  (I just wish that the publishers would be quicker about getting these published in America!)	2001-09-26
US	50891084	RF7O6N2M03KGG	0441008283	199569263	Eccentric Circles	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Cute	Lickiss has created a fun story of the interaction between the fairy and human worlds.  Piper, an aspiring writer, inherits her great-grandmother's house.  As she moves in, she discovers that she not only inherited a dusty book-cluttered home, but what seems to be a portal between the fairy and human worlds.  The characters that she meets in that new world first persuade her to believe in fairy and then help her solve the mystery of her grandmother's death.<br />Overall, this is a fun story with some very amusing parts (what would you do if an exceedingly handsome elf showed up one morning at your breakfast table?!)  But while the story is fun, it does not hold together well.  Characters slip in and out of the story, leaving one confused as to who in the story is important.  Similarily, elements such as the main character's affinity for writing seem important but are not really developed.  I also found myself wanting a better explaination of how stories written in the human world affect the fairy world.  It was a great idea, but not pursued as far as it should have been.<br />Nevertheless, it is a cute book and its short length makes it a great choice for a fun evenings read.	2001-09-17
US	50891084	R2EQXQYLDZ63BH	078143288X	761830212	Tales of the Kingdom (Kingdom Tales, Book 1)	Books	4	43	43	N	N	Great story	When I first saw that this series had been reprinted, I was quite happy.  But then I discovered that this new printing had left out all of the pictures which had been one of my favorite parts of the books.  As a child, I would sit and stare at the bright, intricate pictures for long periods of time as I read through the stories.  I do realize that most of those pictures scream &quot;1980's&quot;, but they really added something to the book.<br />Nevertheless, the stories are still worth reading and I highly recommend them.  It is rare that one finds a book of Christian allegories that is really good.  Tales of the Kingdom manages to have both fantastic allegorical stories and stories that are good as just stories.<br />One starts off reading of a boy, Hero, and his younger brother who manage to escape from the oppressive Enchanted City where people are only allowed to be awake at night to the pleasant Great Park.  The story of Hero and how he comes to understand who he is and what his place in Great Park is is the main theme of most of the tales in the book.  But interspersed with his story are tales of other inhabitants of the park.  From silly knights and a girl named Dirty to a prideful baker and a princess and a dragon, the tales are vivid and delightful.<br />Most Christians will recognize the virtues and allegories that are woven into these tales, but the book is not preachy.  All children (and adults), Christian or not, can enjoy these tales of the kingdom.	2001-06-30
US	50891084	R29RSM6SM3JA8Q	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A fantasy novel about &quot;real&quot; people	I recently came across the Riddle-Master books and was very pleased with my discovery.  McKillip has crafted a fantasy series that while being very much in the traditional realm of that genre is still an original and refreshing series.  Morgon, the Riddle-Master, must set out on a journey to fulfill his destiny, but his journey is not just a bad imitation of Tolkein, but one that is captivating and a mystery to him and to readers.  The journey that he undertakes is one that he would rather not go on, but he knows that he must.  The result is a story about a man's wanderings as he tries to solve the riddle of his life.<br />What I really enjoyed about these books is how real McKillip makes everything seem.  Of course, these books are fantasy and the armies of ghosts and the ability to change shapes are constant reminders of that fact.  But nevertheless, the characters and their lives seem believable.  The main character, Morgon, is not a hero who has the universe figured out and knows exactly what must be done to save it.  He is a common man who discovers that there are further plans for his life than pig-herding.  He is forced to discover that destiny and eventually save the world as he knows it.  But those are not things that he immediately knows or is willing to accept.  Like as for normal humans, his life unfolds day by day.  As readers, we see the pieces of his life fitting together at the same pace as he does and so his life seems more real.<br />I also appreciated how McKillip portrayed the women in these books.  She again created characters which seem real.  Her women are not the warrier princess gods or the traditional beautiful weakling extremes that one finds in many fantasy novels.  Instead, they are real women.  Yes, some of them are the best warriers around or can use magic like no one else, but they also have fears, emotions, longings, and get sick on boats.  They are not unnatural superwomen, but they do have strength and character and are not afraid to show it.  It is so seldom that one finds a good portrayal of women in any fiction that I must praise McKillip for the ones she gave us.<br />While the Riddle-Master books may not be as fast paced as other fantasy stories, they are very captivating.  One becomes so wrapped up in the story story that one feels the extreme emotions that Morgon feels at the book's climax.  (I don't want to give it away, but the twist at the end is really good.)  It's a great series and a fun read.d to show it.  It is so seldom that one finds a good portrayal of women in any fiction that I must praise McKillip for the ones she gave us.<br />While the Riddle-Master books may not be as fast paced as other fantasy stories, they are very captivating.  One becomes so wrapped up in the story story that one feels the extreme emotions that Morgon feels at the book's climax.  (I don't want to give it away, but the twist at the end is really good.)  It's a great series and a fun read.	2001-05-21
US	50891084	RESYFTMKSMRRM	0375706399	151828413	The Book on the Bookshelf	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A fun read for us inquisitive people	I enjoyed this book.  The history of the book fasinates me and so I was eager to read this one.  Petroski gives a good outline of the history of the book and the bookshelf, but does not do much else.  I would have liked to have seen more of the philosophical reasons given for why the book changed form over time.  He focused mainly on the physical reasons, but ignored any idealogical ones.  Also he ignored the newest form of the book - the electronic book.  So while his text was fun and a good overview of history, it left out a lot.<br />Don't expect long detailed chapters on any period of the book.  He skims over the early age of the scroll and leaves a lot of questions about that time unanswered.  Also, one has to get used to his abundance of personal examples.  At first they are okay, but they drag on by the end of the book.  But all in all, it is a fun read.  I would supplement it with something like Alberto Manguel's A History of Reading, but it does add to the discussion of the subject.	2001-03-09
US	50891084	R2S7O8EIWEYZWL	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Not his best	The intrigue of the book is the glimpse into a world of the past that it gives.  One reads of a Spain that, though struggling, still remenbers a past of honor and style. While that picture is obviously given through 20th century eyes, it still holds some wonder.  And that is the stong point of the book.  Perez-Reverte's prose captures the reader in a way that makes his books entertaining and stimulating.<br />Don Jaime is the aged fencing master who lives a lonely life teaching the brats of the aristocracy the basic of the art of fencing.  A new and quite captivating student changes his life forever.  While all the background one reads about the fencing master is interesting as setup, one is left wondering for the first part of the book where the mystery is.  Then all of a sudden, in the later part of the book, the action, the mystery, and the conclusion are all sprung in such rapid succession that one hardly has time to get emotionally involved in any of it.  And the gruesome ending then only leaves one with a bitter taste.<br />While I wouldn't say that I received no enjoyment from The Fencing Master, it is not one of the better books I have read, and is definately not Perez-Reverte's best.  I respect the scene that he was trying to create, but it just was not fleshed out enough.  I also do not think that the whole sexual tension drama was realistic.  Perhaps as a woman I can never understand, but what I read was completely a male fantasy story which was unlike anything that would ever really happen.<br />In conclusion, read the book because it does have its good parts, but don't expect too much of it.	2001-02-02
US	50891084	R15HVND62FNZ60	0061043613	904311242	Lord Peter	Books	5	139	140	N	N	quite fun	After recently going on a Lord Peter binge, I was a bit apprehensive about reading a collection of short stories.  How, I wondered, could short stories hold a candle to the witty and intricate writing of the novels?  But, I was in withdrawl.  Lord Peter had been my companion for the last month and I wanted to get as much of him as I could.<br />  I was pleasantly surprised.  While the stories of course did not have the wealth of familiar characters all on stage at the same time, they each gave glimpses into those lives alongside the steady Lord Peter.  From the disturbing to the merely amusing, Lord Peter managed to mix himself up in murder and mystery, and smoothly work out the muddle.  One is also blessed to have two stories with Harriet Vane and the Wimsey children in them.  The collection is fun and quite a vital part of the Lord Peter collection.	2001-02-02
US	50891084	R3Q82KQSOBNEVV	1563097362	822721464	Who Am I?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fun book	As the dedication in the book says, this is a book &quot;For every unique and precious child in the world.&quot;  This book is a learn to read/ read aloud one about children who are in some way unique but who know that they are each in their own way special.  Each page has a brightly illustrated picture of a child looking into a mirror and asking &quot;Who am I?&quot;  Then one reads a description of the child and that the child sees that he/she has lots of love to share with others.  The pictures are fun and the lesson is good for children to learn.  The children are of many nationalities, have different interests, and physical types.  At the end of the book there is a mirror for the reader to look into and see that they have lots of love to share with others.  I think it is a great book to have in a classroom or at home for your kids.	2001-01-20
US	50891084	RBFNFU5I1PBYA	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The pseudo-professor strikes again	Okay, this was a good book.  Crichton is exciting and makes you want to read the book as quickly as possible so as to get to the end.  But you get to the end and that's it.  In this tale of modern day science/scholarship meets medieval times one is exposed to a lot of information.  The story proceeds at a fast past with twists and turns at every chapter.  But once the exciting stuff ends, the story is over.  Yes, there is that thing at the end, but it really does not explain anything, its just a sweet way to end the book.  While I am not expecting Crichton to have a nice tidy wrap up at the end, I would prefer that possible problems not be brushed aside.  It would seem that all the things that occur in this book would cause some major time paradoxes, but Crichton basically ignores that issue.  He brushes time paradoxes aside by saying that they just can't happen.  But why not?  It just seemed like an easy way to ignore the issue.  But I guess not having the characters worrying about how every action might affect the course of history all the time was a way to make the story more interesting and give the characters more freedom.<br />In the book, you get good action sections alongside typical Crichton teaching passages.  He goes into lecture mode when anything scientific or historical comes up.  While it helps understand the situation, it makes one feel that one should be taking notes and that Crichton is just repeating the basic explaination he got from some professor somewhere.  But the book is still good.  A good weekend read or at the beach book.	2000-12-21
US	50891084	R3T8D0I0WURMGP	0310240514	671108686	They Found the Secret	Books	2	26	62	N	N	Overdone hagiography	I had a really hard time getting through this book. I had to read it for a class, so I had to finish it, but I found that it irritated me more than it uplifted me. I am a believer and I believe that God does work in many ways, but this book was very onesided. One reads of all these people who all of a sudden in their lives found God in a powerful way. The Holy Spirit came to them and changed their lives and that's all we hear about. While I know that the Spirit can do wonderful things, this book ignores the fact that these people were also human. It makes it seem that once these people had found the secret they never had problems again. God seemed to bless their ministry and their faith remained strong. But it never tells about their home life. How did they treat their wife and kids after this experience? Were they kind at home, or did they all but abandon their family so as to serve God better? I dislike the image that if you are serving God, prior commitments, such as family don't mean anything anymore.  I doubt that their lives were perfect in every way or that they never struggled again. Perhaps Edman did not intend to convey that message, but he did nothing to present a more balanced picture either. I cannot be uplifted by these stories because they feel too false - I know there is more there.  Onesided stories do not uplift me; my life is nothing like that. I have encountered God and have been blessed with the Holy Spirit, but I still struggle with sin and doubt- which I see as a necessasry part of a healthy Christian life. I would find more hope in the story of someone who was a real person dealing with everyday life who still managed to serve God and be blessed. Books by Philip Yancey or Anne Lamott are more realistic and therefore much more uplifting.	2000-12-19
US	50891084	R2DVWNX3A7QFBG	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	A well written introduction	I found this book to be utterly enjoyable from start to finish.  While it should not be considered to be a fully accurate history of Christianity in Ireland, it is a lot better than most &quot;Celtic studies&quot; books that are out there.  Cahill takes the facts, the stories, and the rumors of early Celtic Christian days in Ireland and presents them as history using his descriptive and enticing prose.  The result is an easy to read, but entirly fasinating picture of Ireland.  He focuses on the Celtic Christian monastaries' role in preserving the written documents of Western Civilization and makes a very good case for their role as preservers (savers) of that knowledge.  Anyone with any interest in Celtic studies, Christian history, or Western Civilization should read this book.	2000-12-19
US	50891084	RSK6FEL9P0DVE	0830717803	232431244	Preparing for Marriage	Books	2	50	82	N	N	Superficial	My husband and I were given this book by our pastor to use in our premarital counseling.  We found it to be utterly superficial and disappointing.  The examples the book gives are very trite and not very enlightening.  A lot of the chapters brought up issues that we had already discussed many times (and we hadn't be dating for more than a year and a half).  The only purpose of them for us was to tell the pastor what we had already talked about.  In fact, we thought that if couples had not already talked about most of the things in the book, they must have some serious communication problems.  The book takes a very traditional view on the woman's place in the marriage.  It isn't super-conservative, but it was a bit conservative for us and we don't consider ourselves liberal.  Also the authors used Bible passages out of context.  While the verses made good points where they were in the book, its not what they mean in the Biblical context.  I know it is very hard to find good books on this subject.  Most of them stay in the realm of superficiality and cheeze, and this is another one of those books.	2000-12-19
US	50891084	R2OX3O15CLNLBD	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Into another world	I bought The Club Dumas over a year ago at a used book store, but I didn't get around to reading it until this past weekend.  Once I started it, I couldn't put it down.  I was content to sit curled up under a blanket on my couch reading it for hours at end.  One enters another world as one reads the book.  Instead of merely getting superficially involved in the characters' lives, one wants to live them.  I wanted to feel an old book in my hands - to touch the paper and gently turn the pages.  I sympathized with the main character's need for gin and a smoke (and I don't smoke and I hate gin).  The book is intellectual, but not overly so.  It addresses the postmodern concepts of interpretation of texts according to what the reader brings to them, but does so in a way that is closely tied to the plot and therefore fasinating.  I admit to having never read The Three Musketeers (or ever even watching one of the movies), but I was able to follow the references to it fairly well.  It has now been added to my reading list as a result of The Club Dumas.  Overall, a highly enjoyable and stimulating book that I recommend.	2000-12-19
US	50891084	R1RIXFWJ2ZZZ5M	0460878115	426837272	R.S. Thomas Eman Poet Lib #07 (Lafcadio Hearn Collection)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Beautiful and Real	R.S. Thomas succeeds in capturing bits of his homeland, Wales, in his poetry.  From the verses on Welsh peasants to the reflections on the spiritual nature of the universe, he completely captured my attention.  His poetry is like Wales itself - beautiful, rugged, and deeply moving at all times.  I turn to his poems to relax, to find peace, to enjoy myself, and to seek God.  His poem, &quot;The Bright Field&quot; is one of those things that I hold dear in my life.  While this collection does have a good selection of his poetry, it does not have all of his good stuff - its too thin.  But its really the only thing in print that one can find by him.  So I highly recommend purchasing this book to get a taste of a poet who truly knows how to craft words.  He should not have been passed up for the Noble Prize when he was nominated for it.	2000-12-18
US	50891084	R2G4B0P15ZAFKC	1569714010	37331384	Star Wars: Mara Jade - By the Emperor's Hand	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Just what I pictured	I just got this book and I really liked it.  I am not a comic book person, this and Union are the only ones that I have read.  I was very impressed with how Mara was drawn.  In Union she looked like a cute teenager, in this she looked real.  You know that she is well trained and brillant, but also beautiful.  Her expressions were perfect.  The story was interesting, but I liked it more for the visual images than the plot.  I just wish that it had gone back further into her life.  I know that she was kidnapped at age 4, but how and why?  And what occured in the years following?  She is the most interesting character in the Star Wars universe, and I just want to know more about her.	2000-12-12
US	50891084	R2AZ31M4LZ5CSF	1569714649	792536068	Star Wars: Union	Books	5	11	15	N	N	At last...	As a child, I was sure I was going to grow up and marry Luke Skywalker, but I admit that Mara is perfect for him.  Ever since I read Heir to the Empire, I have been waiting for this wedding.  The book was fun to read, and the wedding dress part was great.  I loved how characteristics of all the main people were captured so well.  The only thing I was disappointed with was Mara.  She looked too cute, like a high school cheerleader- not at all the picture presented of her in the books.  But still, the book was a blast.  I highly recommend it.	2000-10-30
US	50891084	R142Q6Z7894ZQB	0345428595	398079632	Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 5)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	What's with the title?	While I liked this book because it takes place in the Star Wars universe, it didn't live up to the other books in the New Jedi Order series.  Many elements in the plot seem too unbelievable (i.e. do you really think that Han and Leia would go so long without talking?  She's a diplomat and they both have hot tempers, they are sure to blow up at each other one of these days...) And what was with leaving Mara completely out of the book?  The breakthrough at the end of the last one when she was healed was great, but it was basically ignored in this book.  We only got Luke's comments on it and nothing about how she was feeling.  Also, was it just me, or did this book have very little to do with the Jedi?  They were too much of a subplot to have the title refer to them.  Anyway, maybe I just want to see Mara and Corran back in action. :-)	2000-10-30
US	50891084	R34BDPP7VHLDXE	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A love/hate relationship	After reading the first two books in three days, I could not wait to get ahold of this one and I stayed up all night to read it.  Although it is very good, it does not quite live up to the first two.  I love it because it is an excellent book - something that is rare these days.  I hate it because it is disturbing.  Although he makes the book sound so hopeful and happy at the end, once you think about it, the universe he leaves you with is absolutely hopeless.  I did not so much have a problem with the way he treated Christianity, as I did with the empty world he gives us.  As for letting children read this...  I hate the idea of restricting children from reading books, especially ones that encourage imagination, but I would be careful with this book.  It would take a very bright child to get this book.  The first two were great for all ages, but this third one is hardly a children's book.  In fact, most adults won't understand most of what is discussed in it.  So parents, be careful with this book.  I'm not saying that because it's bad, but because it will take a special child to read it.	2000-10-23
