US	50899145	R1IO1B8UI4PEI9	0345452909	789985159	My Just Desire: The Life of Bess Raleigh, Wife to Sir Walter	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Good Wife Bess	\\"My Just Desire,\\" a superficial look at the life of an Elizabethan gentlewoman, leaves much to be desired.  Peppering her writing with modern phraseology, such as \\"boy toy,\\" author Anna Beer's diminishes both her subject and her readers' interest in it.<br /><br />Better that the fascinating life of Bess Throckmorton, wife to Sir Walter Ralegh, had been treated in a more reverant and scholarly manner.  This is a choice subject poorly limned.	2005-10-11
US	50899145	RPXMENCPWE8GS	0060585439	689012006	Sex with Kings: 500 Years of Adultery, Power, Rivalry, and Revenge	Books	2	5	9	N	Y	Rex Sex	If you are looking for salacious, sexy history, don't bother to read &quot;Sex with Kings.&quot; The title is the best thing about the book. Although the author examines the lives and times of royal mistresses from the 15th century to the present, she does not inbue her history with any raciness or sense of the personalities involved at all. This is just rather routine recitations of the perks and pains of being a maitresse en titre. The book is organized by topic rather than chronologically, which makes for confusion and a rather choppy read. All in all, a stronger come-on than pay-off.	2004-07-23
US	50899145	RINSBGIDIOXTL	031232801X	91542667	Vanity and Vexation: A Novel of Pride and Prejudice	Books	2	10	21	N	N	Read &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; Instead	While Kate Fenton has written a little after dinner mint of a book, she is no Jane Austen.  She is not even Austen Powers, for that matter.  Drawing her plot from the gentle, delightful comedy &quot;Pride and Prejudice,&quot; Fenton tries, in vain, to reset the book in modern-day Yorkshire.  She has taken on a task beyond her skills, and should not be congratulated for trying.  Her dialog is pungent, and often funny, but her grasp, overall, exceeds her reach...Read Jane Austen's &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; instead and avoid both vexation and this author's vanity.	2004-06-27
US	50899145	RQZMI7ADOHRP5	0375412778	203455489	The Brontë Myth	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Myth Buster	Lucasta Miller sums up her addition to the mountains of Bronte materials as a \\"metabiography.\\"  What she does here, actually, is deconstruct the layers of myth and mystery surrounding the three Bronte sisters, starting with Elizabeth Gaskell's 1857 \\"Life of Charlotte Bronte.\\"  Miller's stated intent to to refocus readers' attention on the social, political and literary influences on the three authors (actually only two, as Anne -- undeservingly -- receives little attention here).  Miller also makes a convincing case as to how Charlotte and Emily contributed knowingly to the enduring myths about their lonely, provincial childhood, famously full of suffering, illness and death.  That the sisters were complicit in creating their own mythos is entirely convincing and makes for a fascinating read. Miller focuses in on portraits of the sisters in biography, fiction, film and television, analyzing an amazing array of sources' skews on the Bronte legacy.  Familiarity with the Bronte oevre is helpful to fully enjoying this iconoclastic look at the three weird sisters and the creative output they have inspired.	2004-03-01
US	50899145	R1CBE9OQIE3D8D	0375408983	679367486	Elizabeth and Mary: Cousins, Rivals, Queens	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Two Queens in One Isle	This new dual biography of Elizabeth I and Mary of Scotland does not provides any fresh historical material on the two queens, but rather focuses on the pyschological atributes that shaped their lives -- and in Mary's case -- her death.<br />Perhaps the most interesting insight into character here is the suggestion that Mary was a manic-depressive and that her biopolar disorder sealed her fate.  She could not act as impulsively or as self-destructively as she did otherwise, argues author Dunn.<br />Elizabeth's character is not as clearly limned here; perhaps not surprising given the chimerical nature of her personality and style.<br />Despite the lack of new materials and the retreading of so familiar turf, &quot;Elizabeth and Mary&quot; is still a pleasure to read.  Certainly not intended for the serious historian, but rich enough to satisfy a less demanding palate for Tudor history.	2004-02-27
US	50899145	R2NU9SN9DRHPWW	0066209552	664157330	Courtesans: Money, Sex and Fame in the Nineteenth Century	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Grand Horizontals	This gripping biography of the British courtesans in the late 18th to early 20th centuries is more about power than money or sex as the title indicates. There is nothing here to titilate. These women, all different in approach and appreciation, wielded great influence in a man's world, relying on little more than their intellect and allure.<br />The historical asides offered by Hickman are as fascinating as the mini-biographies of the five women profiled.  Make no doubt about it, whatever the outcome in the long run, each of these women were successful businesswomen within the context of their era.  What they were not is common drabs or politicized activists. A sister book, \\"Grande Horizontales,\\" about French grand courtesans of the same age (including a profile of Cora Pearl, a British woman in France), is not nearly as well written nor captivating.  Still the subject, with its whiff of decadence and luxe glamour, is absorbing.	2004-02-24
US	50899145	R3LUOKMTAX996S	0312287348	65171223	Lilibet: An Intimate Portrait of Elizabeth II	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Elizabeth Lite	It is surprising that the author of such fascinating and well-researched biographies such as &quot;The First Elizabeth&quot; and &quot;Great Harry&quot; could also write &quot;Lilibet,&quot; a piece of biographical fluff.  This book manages to be disrespectful of its subject without offering any juicy insights into her life or reign.  The only real shocker is the portrait of Prince Philip who comes across as a bore and a bully with an unfortunate grating laugh.<br />Erickson is such a gifted biographer, especially her work on the Tudors, that this book is especially disappointing: one expects so much more of her.	2004-02-24
US	50899145	R3EKB3I8U3T20N	034543658X	485594748	Mary, Queen of Scots and the Murder of Lord Darnley	Books	3	53	59	N	Y	Mary, Mary Quite Contrary	Alison Weir's \\"Mary Queen of Scots and the Murder of Lord Darnley\\" is not the best of her popular histories, but it is still a well-written, copiously researched piece that despite its length goes along at a brisk pace. Weir defends her decision to write a detailed set-up to the murder of Darnley from the outset, and does so in great detail, most of it truly pertinent to the case.<br />However, what it comes down to -- as it so often does with Mary -- is the question of the Casket Letters.  Weir discounts their authenticity vehemently and exonorates Mary of any complicity in her husband's death.  This begs the big issue of Mary's character as a ruthless schemer, brought up in Machiavellian France, losing her head over plots against Elizabeth.  Weir makes a case here, but does not convince nor provide new interpretations of old evidence.<br />If you are a Marian, this book will add ample fuel to your fire.  If you are not, the last sentence will make you gasp in righteous indignation.	2003-05-20
US	50899145	R152802G6Q4YWB	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Death Takes a Holiday	Mary Roach's mordantly humorous \\"Stiff\\" is an employment manual for the recently deceased. It is fascinating just how busy we can be, even if dead. In fact, there are a number of productive, socially redeeming careers ahead of us -- should we so choose -- once we have shuffled off this old mortal coil and so on. Apart from medical education, organ transplantation, crash test dummies, job openings also include compost (but only if you are Swedish).<br />While the ick factor may be high for some readers, \\"Stiff\\" is not, nor is it meant to be, a gross-out book. Here the title does the book a bit of a disservice, for Roach's approach, while light-handed, is always respectful, even tempered with some old fashioned respect for the dead.<br />For the most part \\"Stiff\\" is a fascinating compendium of things we always wanted to know about death (and perhaps a few things we did not) but were afraid to ask. A highly recommended companion piece to \\"How We Die\\" and \\"The American Way of Death.\\"	2003-05-20
US	50899145	R1530UAP77361W	0802713955	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	4	20	21	N	N	The Discomfort and the Ecstasy	This fascinating and informative book is crammed with all manner of information on the artistic vision, political struggles and plain hard work that went into the creation of the Sistine Chapel.  Right up front you learn that Michelangelo did not paint that enormous ceiling lying flat on his back, but did so standing upright, painting above his head.  You also learn that he did not want the job, seeing himself as not much of a painter and aching to get back to sculpting.  The difficult technique of fresco painting is gone into in detail, giving the reader a glimpse of the monumental effort behind this masterpiece. The key characters in the book are, of course, the rugged rough Michelangelo and the urbane Warrior Pope, Julius II.  This is art history vibrant with biography and background and makes for good story-telling.	2003-04-01
US	50899145	R24HGHC8DZJO6L	0375505296	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Been There, Read That	Matthew Pearl's &quot;The Dante Club&quot; is simply a cookie-cutter mystery with fancy trimmings.  The trimmings in this instance being a killer driven mad by the images of Hell in Dante's &quot;Inferno.&quot;  The club of the title is a group of the original Boston Brahmins, including Oliver Wendell Holmes (the comic relief), Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, James Russell Lowell, etc, who are working together on the first American translation of &quot;The Divine Comedy.&quot;  The average plot and the obvious solution are slightly offset by Pearl's deft handling of Dante's work. A subplot about the first African American police officer in Boston serves no purpose at all.  For exciting period mysteries, try &quot;The Alienist&quot; or &quot;The Quincunx.&quot;	2003-03-25
US	50899145	R2C08S1R23MCCZ	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Architects, Madness and Murder	This fascinating nonfiction book reads like a pot-boiler with a cliff-hanger at the end of each chapter. Deftly blending the monumental task of planning and building of the 1893 Columbia Exposition in Chicago with the tangential stories of a mad Irish assassin and a fiendish sexual serial killer, Erik Larsen has created a gripping tale centered on the \\"White City\\" built on the outskirts of a much darker, dangerous and dirty \\"Black City,\\" where tourists were as drawn to the stockyards to watch pigs being slaughtered as eagerly as they attended the more refined offerings of the fair. Here they saw for the first time, millions of electric lights running on AC current, tasted and honored Pabst Blue Ribbon beer, tried Shredded Wheat, saw belly dancing for the first time and rode on the world's first Ferris Wheel. The cast of characters so brilliantly drawn by Larsen's nearly over-the-top prose include the dozens of architects and engineers driven to complete the fair on time (some driven to death), including famed landscape architect Frederick Law Olmstead of Central Park fame. Within the progress of the fair as over-arching tale are the stories of two deeply disturbed men, Patrick Predergast and H.H. Holmes; one insane in his belief in his importance to the reelection of Chicago Mayor Carter Harrison, a belief that lead to tragedy; the other a cunning and pathological killer, who built a house with rooms where arcitect Louis Sullivan's credo of \\"form following function\\" was strictly adhered to. Holmes built gas chambers, sound-proof vaults and a crematorium in his \\"World's Fair Hotel\\" and rented rooms to nubile young women visiting Chicago to see the Fair. Many of them were never seen again. Larsen keeps the suspense going on all levels. Will the massive fair grounds built on near quicksand be ready for opening day? What form will Prendergast's insanity take? Will anyone ever realize that Dr. Holmes' hotel guests check in but never check out? All in all, \\"The Devil in the White City\\" is fascinating, compelling reading, almost a guilty pleasure but that it is all true and therefore all the most captivating for its veracity. One small quibble: more photographs of the fair grounds and the lead characters would have enriched the text greatly. Purple prose may abound, but Mr. Larsen's purple is of the most elegant and regal of hues.he White City\\" is fascinating, compelling reading, almost a guilty pleasure but that it is all true and therefore all the most captivating for its veracity. One small quibble: more photographs of the fair grounds and the lead characters would have enriched the text greatly. Purple prose may abound, but Mr. Larsen's purple is of the most elegant and regal of hues.	2003-02-19
US	50899145	R2IQND5IE3MRS3	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Untouched By An Angel	The much-heralded framing device of \\"The Lovely Bones\\" -- a narration by a 14-year-old murder victim -- would serve this ambitious novel better if the character of Susie wasn't oddly modeled on the wise, kind and omniscient angels so familiar from film and television. No teenaged girl was ever so knowing or brave, so stridently NOT a victim of violent crime. She is a combination of ghost, angel, avenger and poltergeist, and fills none of these roles credibly.  Susie's preternatural insights and interventions from her highly personal heaven on high are, however, compelling reading.  It is impossible to believe in this heroine, but it is also difficult to put the book down.  Unfortunately, what creative power Ms. Sebold has is expended two-thirds of the way into the novel and it ends on a note so false and bathetic that it fairly screams \\"Lifetime Movie of the Week.\\"	2002-12-31
US	50899145	R1720EQBEM6GTD	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	3	52	60	N	Y	The Crimson Petal and the White Sheets Need Washing	At first I was a bit torn by \\"The Crimson Petal and the White:\\" I thought is this a pot boiler of the best sort or a novel of the middling sort? Certainly there is a no want of squalid and graphic Victorian detail, especially of the bodily kind.  Not a paragraph goes by without a gleeful description of sweat, blood, urine, menstrual blood, sodden gutters, hawked spit, spilled tears, pools of feces (human or animal), bad smells, nasty teeth, biliousness, queasy stomaches (sometimes the reader's) all of which makes you bless the makers of flush toilets, Ban roll-on and, Kleenex and Listerine. Smells, odors, aromas, scents, and all kinds of olfactory stimulants nice and noisome abound and rebound; the book stinks of smells. Likewise, the precise mannerings and dress of various classes of characters encountered is faithfully recounted along with the hypocracy we have come to accept as being endemic to the Victorians, high and low.  Sugar, \\"The Crimson Petal's\\" heroine, is that stock creature, the Whore with a Heart of Gold, a neo-feminist, who puts the devil (lascious man) behind her (along with a cruel mother) and saves herself, a misunderstood wife and an unloved child in the process.  A lot of bodily fluids get spilled in the process, and a lot of sheets get dirtied.  It is a fascinating story, however, and it does pull you in for all of its 800 or so pages, no mean feat, that.  There a fair amount of sex, much of explicit, none of it erotic.  Mr. Faber has written a big book and filled with lots of interesting odds and ends and tosses in characters who do not seem particularly real nor do they act in particularly realistic way. They lack depth and their actions only make sense in context of moving along the rather turgid plot.  It is as if being surrounded by so much gritty, harsh authenticity, the characters need not hew to the laws of natural behavior themselves.  I ambilvalent about this book, but I am not fooled by it and its fancy shop windows: it very good work of fiction, but by no means is it a great piece of literature.  If you want a Victorian novel written to perfection by a modern author, read Charles Palliser's \\"The Quincunx.\\"k of fiction, but by no means is it a great piece of literature.  If you want a Victorian novel written to perfection by a modern author, read Charles Palliser's \\"The Quincunx.\\"	2002-09-28
US	50899145	RPGQLILQ9DUF	0670030457	304194385	The Grave Maurice	Books	3	17	19	N	N	The Jury Is Out	I sometimes wonder why Grimes's books are called the \\"Richard Jury\\" books when more and more Melrose Plant seems to be taking on the job of New Scotland Yard.  And how old are these guys now anyway?  50s? 60s?  If Jury was 6 or 7 in 1945, well, you do the math. Still they still have their endless string of fillies, doomed and damaged, to fall in love with, bed (even with fresh bullet wounds) who are destined to either die or wither on the vine like old Viv-viv.  \\"The Grave Maurice\\" is not a Grimes masterpiece, but it is still pretty good, and altogether tidier, plotwise, than \\"The Lamorna Wink\\" which had plently plot plus and lots of Plant exposition (at least we know why Plant gave up his titles) and a bad sub-plot featuring a most unbelievable child snuff film and just way too many characters.  When Grimes is good, as with children and animals, Agatha at bay and Wiggins doing his Yard/Boots the Chemists thing, she is so ... good, clever and funny you will forgive her anything, but when she has Jury send Melrose the ertswhile Earl out to buy one more expensive item as a ruse (a painting, a car, a house, a horse, whatever)or as a pseudo expert (librarian, art collector, antiques appraiser, rider to the hounds) I start wondering if someone really ought to tell DCS Racer, or at Cyril the Cat, that Jury is not on the case, again. And she really is going to have to start introducing some foresenics into her crime scenes...she's dating herself.  But here, she seems to have lost control of her characters, charming as they may be.<br />As for the sub-plot of \\"Grave Maurice,\\" the unnecessarily cruel way in which mares' urine is collected to manufacture Premarin, I am not at all certain if her diatribe was really that effective as a plot device or by being set against the foolish bumbling of Diane (who used to wear reds, remember Martha?), Trueblood and Plant in their following of the hunt and anti-hunters.  I finished this book and immediately went back and re-read \\"Jerusalem Inn\\" and \\"Help the Poor Struggler\\" just to get good and Grimes-y again.em Inn\\" and \\"Help the Poor Struggler\\" just to get good and Grimes-y again.	2002-09-15
US	50899145	ROX06G9A5F8HQ	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	The Civil War -- In One Month an Entire War	Jay Winik has done an extraordinary job of reworking the familiar story of the last days of the Civil War by moving the action in and out of sequence without ever losing the essential thread of his thesis: April 1865 was a turning point in American history meriting reconsideration on its own.  Winik weaves the increasing weariness of the war torn North and South with biographies of its key players -- Lee, Grant, Lincoln, Booth, et al -- with new insights into the motivation behind the beginnings and the culmination of the bloody conflict in an entirely new way.  He explores the familiar themes of slavery, but surprises us with the early urging of Jefferson Davis and other CSA leaders to either emancipate the slaves or arm them -- long before serious consideration was given to it by leaders in the North.  He also limns the genesis of sucession, a hot issue years before the firing on Fort Sumter, and the political weight its threat had played before hostilities broke out.  Winik gives us snapshot biographies of the dashing and vicious cavalry officers in blue and in grey and their substantial impact on the war's outcome, and the very real temptation to use these brilliant men as guerilla warriors to continue the war despite Lee's surrender at Appomatax.  We are also reminded of just how near a thing the Union victory was, dependant upon the better angels of the natures of Grant, Lee, Lincoln and their ability to rise above partisan and regional politics and envision a future of a reunited country.  A very readable book, Winik is not afraid to use modern and historical parallels to make his point comprehensible and palpable.  By centering the book on the many key events of April 1865, from the fall of Richmond to the death of Lincoln, Winik sums up the essential issues of the Civil War, ever reminding us of the horrific price paid by both armies, fighting to an end that might not have been so bitter had Booth not fired that fatal shot.  A great book for Civil War experts and the casually curious alike.  The really impressive thing is that the author does manage to pull all of this complex information under the overarching umbrella of one calamitous month.ts and the casually curious alike.  The really impressive thing is that the author does manage to pull all of this complex information under the overarching umbrella of one calamitous month.	2002-06-10
US	50899145	R5LSE4P2GMT45	0156013673	847523501	The Snakebite Survivors' Club: Travels Among Serpents	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crikey! That's A Big One!!	Much like the author of &quot;Snakebite Survivors' Club,&quot; I am both fascinated and repelled by snakes.  Seal cleverly combines tall tales with stories of the hard facts of living in parts of the world where venomous vipers are thick on the ground.  Seal travels between Australia, America, India and Africa, relating the experiences (quite graphically) of people who have been bitten by everything from rattlesnakes to cobras to the deadly black mamba.  Some of these are professional herpetologists, some are religious &quot;snake handlers&quot; (one with murderous intent), some are just unlucky locals.  He jumps from one part of the world to another in a cliff hanger fashion, leaving us breathless and off center, much the way one feels when encountering a snake in real life.  I love the author's frank admission that he is an admirer of snakes but a major coward when they get up close and personal.  A wonderful combination of travel book, natural history, great story-telling and medical manual, &quot;The Snakebite Survivors' Club&quot; has only one major flaw -- the author is not a member of this club, and I kept expecting him to be.  But like Seal, I enjoy snakes vicariously.  Let Steve Erwin wrestle with pythons and taipans, and I will watch happily with horror and awe.  The same pleasant chills are to be found in this fascinating book.	2002-04-22
US	50899145	RG51POBN9IE5T	0393010430	1686231	The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Honorables and Horrors	This biography of the Mitford sisters stands up nicely to the family-sanctioned House of Mitford by the Guinness's.  Here the emphasis is not so much on the delightful eccentricities of the Radfords and family, chubb clubbing et al, but on the various and extreme ways in which these children of minor aristrocracy and great precocity diverged from their intended paths.  Here we see Nancy not just as the author of rather light-weight novels, but also as a serious historian and important woman of letters.  Unity's relationship with Hitler is fleshed out, bringing forth real evidence of her love and devotion to not only the man, but also his cause.  Decca (Jessica) gets more notice here, both as a rather naive communist during the 20s and 30s, but also as a chronicler of the social mores of American life and death.  Debo, still today the Duchess of Devonshire, beautiful and determined, tries to hold the center while yet another sister Pamela leads a more conventional life.  Even more notorious than Unity's infatuation with Hitler and subsequent sucide attempt, was Diana, married to the leader of Britain's Fascist party, Oswald  Mosely, with whom she spend several years in jail during WWII.  These beautiful, brilliant, individuals are each given their due, and not eclipsed by Nancy, the most pubic of them.  This is a fine book for lovers of the Mitfords, for they are so curious, so peculiar and so varied, that one must either despise them for their obvious wrong-headedness, or love them madly despite it all.  As the Mitford girls themselves would say, \\"Do admit. It is lovely to be lovely one.\\"  Still and all, the best source of biographical information on this fascinating family are their own writings, particularly Nancy's \\"Love in a Cold Climate\\" and \\"The Pursiut of Love,\\" and Jessica's \\"Hons and Rebels.\\"  The Mitfords get fair treatment here, even if it does make them seem just a shade duller than they were, or than we want them to have been.	2002-03-10
US	50899145	R2T1OHFKGZ8T4O	0879514787	862489590	The Women of Whitechapel and Jack the Ripper	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Old Ripper Theory Wrapped in Purple	\\"The Women of Whitechapel\\" is a book that relies on elaborate, even obtuse language in an attempt to capture the spirit and ambiance of Victorian London stalked by a killer.  The story is all to familiar to recount, and West relies on a very old and totally disproven Ripper theory (Dr. Gull in a carriage killing off friends of Prince Eddy's secret Catholic wife.)  The twist is throwing into play the character of the painter Walter Sickert (another non-placer amongst Ripper theories) to shape the narrative.  West's prose is a little over-reaching, but the story, perhaps because of its very familiarity, flows quickly. No surprises here; just $50 words and a tired tale.	2001-11-27
US	50899145	R23JD23QHIU344	0345440013	755444461	Funeral in Blue (William Monk Novels)	Books	3	4	6	N	Y	Funeral in Blue -- Nice Try	Coming directly on the heels of the maddeningly bad &quot;Slaves of Obsession,&quot; &quot;Funeral in Blue&quot; does a little something to improve Anne Perry's much-damaged reputation.  The former book was so poor it was impossible to imagine that she was really paying attention while writing it.  This new book offers some promise that Ms. Perry is working harder at her usually excellent series of Victorian mysteries.  While a trifle sloppy in plot and in need of some firm editing, &quot;Funeral in Blue&quot; does further develop the (somewhat annoying) characters of Hester and William Monk, and I liked the fact that the entire ending leaves so many loose ends and a promise of further exploration of Monk's lost past.  Perhaps Ms. Perry would be better off writing more slowly and carefully, if only to reach the heights she has obtained in the past.	2001-10-21
US	50899145	R160FN7CW5QJXY	0312253079	560044213	Alexandra: The Last Tsarina	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	A Tortured Soul	I have been a fan of Carolly Erickson's wonderful biographies since I stumbled across her &quot;The First Elizabeth&quot; years ago. Each one of her volumes on the Tudors was a gem of scholarly research and captivating history. Lately, however, since she began her series on &quot;Great Women,&quot; including Josephine, Marie Antoinette, Catherine the Great and now Tsarina Alexandra, Erickson's work has slipped further and further into mere popular biography, offering &quot;warts and all&quot; characterizations of these women, variously thrust into greatness, greed, foolish decisions, vainity, all with disaterous results one way or another. They are fascinating women and readable books, but they verge on history lite, and I expect more from Erickson. In &quot;Alexandera&quot; there is a tendency to glide over major issues and events to focus on Alexandra's painful search for religious and moral guidance, making her appear a most unpleasant and naive woman. The index, moreover, fails to have single entry for Alexandra, which seems odd, since the book is about her. The index also makes no mention of Ekaterinaberg, even though the murders there are recounted. Sadly also missing is any mention of Faberge -- the text mentions jewlery, but nothing specific and certainly no Easter Eggs -- an odd omission. The book is still worth the read, but it is not Carolly Erickson at her best.	2001-09-18
US	50899145	R2USNQCJFAFQU5	0312266499	525908481	The Spencers: A Personal History of an English Family	Books	2	7	12	N	Y	Self-Serving History, But Interesting, Too	Charles Spencer is very careful to make almost no direct references to his more famous sister, Diana, in his family history &quot;The Spencers,&quot; but her picture appears on the jacket, for marketing purposes I guess.  He does make several veiled (thinly veiled) references to Diana's ancestors who similarly suffered from being misunderstood by the press and being ahead of their times.  Diana was no Georgiana, let's leave it at that.  The book, while free of any scholarly pretenses (there are no footnotes and the bibliography is scanty), is rife with fascinating characters, some of whom are not really related to the Spencer clan at all.  For example, the Earl of Spencer devotes an entire chapter to the famous Sarah Churchill, First Duchess of Marlborough, who was merely a mother-in-law to a Spencer.  She did serve the role of uniting the two families through her complicated bequests, but she is most widely known as the Power Behind the Throne to Queen Anne, and her lengthy treatment in this book is inappropriate.  However, several other Spencers (most emphatically Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire) led fascinating lives, and the author tells their stories with sympathy and the occasional dash of venom or wit.  This is not a book for serious historians, and it has all-too obvious agendas(slurring his step-mother Raine among them), but it whizzes through some of England's most interesting epochs and may inspire some to look deeper elsewhere.	2001-08-21
US	50899145	RY3RV3NJL01UR	0553575937	175864703	Jane and the Unpleasantness at Scargrave Manor: Being the First Jane Austen Mystery (Jane Austen Mysteries)	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Oh, For Shame, Jane!	I will credit Stephanie Barron with being very clever in blending the known facts of Jane Austen's life with her fairly average murder mysteries.  I also appreciate her informative footnotes about references about the Regency era, both obscure and more commonplace.  My only real caveat about this book and the others in the series (I have read only the first three) is that Ms. Barron makes the retiring and proper Miss Austen behave with untoward and unladylike forwardness to achieve her ends as an unlikely sleuth.  In truth, it is totally against the accepted character of the redoubtable Jane to imagine her taking so much upon herself, interferring in matters so vulgar and acting in a fashion that borders on impropriety.  Ms. Barron also makes Jane seem snappish, even rude, behavior she would in reality eschew with a shudder.  If the mysteries were more compelling or more cleverly crafted, this out-of-character portrait might be more readily forgiven.  As it is, the books do not add to the reader's understanding of Miss Austen or her books, but rather draw her as much more the vulgar interferring miss than we know her to have been.  If the author did not claim her work as a true illumination of Jane's nature, this series would be more enjoyable as simple mysteries set in the fascinating Regency era, with all its colorful historical characters, the multiple strata of society -- a time renowned for both louche and restrained behavior and much hypocrisy.	2001-08-06
US	50899145	R3VRJZF8LKRC9U	094032265X	353716317	Madame de Pompadour (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	66	68	N	N	The Great Courtsean	Nancy Mitford has a remarkable ability to blend historical fact with equally factual gossip and cunning insight.  The result is a biography of great charm that offers much for both serious students of history and those who also enjoy the backstairs take on famous people -- beauty marks, warts and all.  &quot;Madame de Pompadour&quot; is especially rich is limning the life of this great horizontal, with all its struggles, sorrows and triumphs (she was lovely, with elegant taste, a delightful companion, but sadly frigid).  Pompadour, beautiful, charming, erudite and influential was the favorite of Louis XV for many years, and was loved and hated with equal intensity by his court.  The books is lavishly illustrated with portraits of Pompadour, the King, courtiers, Versailles and its gardens and lush interiors, art and bijou -- all the luxury in over which she reigned and inspired.  Ms. Mitford's prose in incomparable in its easy elegance and fluid felicity -- a great read by any standards.  But do not mistake her light hand with light history.  This is a biography of great richness and learned insight, giving us a portrait of a powerful woman during a fascinating chapter in French history.	2001-08-06
US	50899145	R37XEU2BFMWKS2	078670831X	438397478	Pilgrim Princess : The Life of Princess Zinaida Volkonsky	Books	2	5	5	N	N	The Lifeless Life of a Russian Princess	Princess Zinaida Volkonsky was apparently one of those handful of beautiful and charming women who scent the pages of 18th c. histories. Cultured, wealthy, aristocratic and intellectual, they held sway over Tsars and Kings, salons and balls, their glittering jewels and extravagant gowns highlighting their beauty, their wit and learning flavoring their conversation.<br />A talented musician, poet, hostess and political medler, Princess Zinaida was born into the Russian aristocracy, and came to adulthood during a fascinating chapter in that country's history. Russia of the late 18th c. was more open, more Western and more powerful than it would be for centuries. This exotic and connected Princess had the ear (and heart) of the young Alexander I who had just defeated Napoleon after his diasterous attempt to conquer Mother Russia. She was friendly with Gogol, Pushkin, Turgenev and other writers who were at that moment raising Russian literature to glorious heights. She traveled from St. Petersberg to Venice to Paris to Rome to Vienna and back at a time when such travel was rare and arduous. She captivated young men, ignored her too patient husband, and impressed all around her with her many alluring attributes. Pulled toward the Church of Rome, she finally converted to Catholicism, settled in Rome, built a lovely villa with enchanting gardens and worked her charms on Cardinals and Bishops. She died of pneumonia after giving her warm petticoat to an old street woman, but not after establishing a number of religious schools for girls in and around Rome.<br />So why is this book so deadly dull? The ingredients for a delicious biography a la Nancy Mitford's &quot;Pompador&quot; are so readily to hand, but first-time author Maria Fairweather is unable to bring her fairy Princess to life. She remains flat on the pages, alway busy, yes, but also annoyingly neurotic, selfish and, frankly, not very interesting. Her faith and conversion is never convincingly explored, her circle of friends is impressive, but there is no hint of what drew these fascinating men to the lovely Zinaida. The central character of this book is missing. She isn't a mystery, she is a cipher.of friends is impressive, but there is no hint of what drew these fascinating men to the lovely Zinaida. The central character of this book is missing. She isn't a mystery, she is a cipher.	2001-07-03
US	50899145	R3NDTWBICFXQTR	0345436598	269894493	Henry VIII: The King and His Court	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Henry VIII: A True Renaissance Prince	I always enjoy Alison Weir's biographies; they are scrupulously researched, her arguments are based on that research and her conclusions are carefully drawn and fair.  She is sure of her stance, but is flexible enough admit doubts.  In &quot;Henry VIII: The King and His Court,&quot; Weir has dug even deeper into a subject about which she has written many times -- the brilliant Tudors who reigned over Britain's flowering rennaissance.  Here she offers up an amazing amount of detail on not only the King and his six wives, but also on the astonishing array of people who made up his court, conselors and companions.  Among other things, Weir credits Henry with introducing humanist teachings and philosophy to England, limning him as a great scholar, musician, athlete, scientist, author and patron of the arts.  And yes, she does point out that he aged into a splendid and cruel tyrant, bankrupting the country with needless wars and very conscipuous consumption most often meant to impress royal rulers across Europe with lavish gestures and costly entertainments. All this glory and grandure was for a tiny elite; Henry most often ignoredthe growing restlessness of his mostly impoverished subjects, as he revolutionized religion in his realm to suit his dynastic needs. &quot;The King and His Court&quot; shines a bright light on the details on every aspect of the lives of the great and noble (and the occasional confection creator, armorer, or gifted craftsman). We learn what they wore, how they amused themselves, what and how they ate, who slept with whom, their innovations in architecture, art, dance, religion practices, how much this all cost (the sums are staggering) and much more.  While all of this gossipy detail is delicious, and Henry's story of marital woes and his quest for an heir always makes a good read, what this book is outstanding in Weir's fully realized portraits of the remarkable denizens of Henry's court, from the humanist scholar Erasmus, to the martyred Thomas Moore, to the genius of the artist Holbein, to that cunning intriguer, Cardinal Wolsey.  The richness of character, the fullsomeness and variety of information, the unstinting portrait of the complex Henry all add up to an enormously rewarding book.  To read this book is to gain a whole new understanding of one of the most important chapters in Britain's royal history.  Read this wonderful book to learn that Henry made it fashionable to sleep in a nightshirt, liked to concoct his own tonics and nostrums, was one of Europe's greatest dancers, was a talented composer and player of many instruments, and was a recognized and dedicated fashionista with a daring color sense...and, yes, how he dealt with those six wives, good, bad, sad and tragic.s Moore, to the genius of the artist Holbein, to that cunning intriguer, Cardinal Wolsey.  The richness of character, the fullsomeness and variety of information, the unstinting portrait of the complex Henry all add up to an enormously rewarding book.  To read this book is to gain a whole new understanding of one of the most important chapters in Britain's royal history.  Read this wonderful book to learn that Henry made it fashionable to sleep in a nightshirt, liked to concoct his own tonics and nostrums, was one of Europe's greatest dancers, was a talented composer and player of many instruments, and was a recognized and dedicated fashionista with a daring color sense...and, yes, how he dealt with those six wives, good, bad, sad and tragic.	2001-06-09
US	50899145	RR7Y79HOJSCRX	0374265011	811044930	Big Chief Elizabeth: The Adventures and Fate of the First English Colonists in America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Virginia, My Virginia	Giles Milton's brash and breezy history of the earliest attempts to create a permanent English settlement in North America is a charming, amusing, all together serious historical romp.  He loves the colorful, eccentric Elizabethans from their courage to their little vanities.  He delights in offering examples of creative spelling (Mark Twain said never trust a man who can only spell a word one way [sic] -- he would have adored Vater Rales), their gaudy get-ups and get rich quick schemes involving the vast acres of America.  But all the while Martin never loses sight of how dangerous it was just to get to the New World, let alone try and live there.  Witness the awful fate of the those left on Roanoke Island, ill prepared to fend for themselves.  &quot;Big Chief Elizabeth&quot; is also refreshing in that its author gives us Native Americans who are neither Noble Savages nor without full and rich lives -- and schemes -- of their own. Using extant documents his gives us portraits of individuals. Nor does Milton dismiss them as mere victims. He also makes it perfectly clear that European settlers did a very stupid thing in underestimating the Indians while depending on their good will and superior knowledge.  Adventureres all, Elizabethans in buckskin and Algonquins in taffeta, &quot;Big Chief Elizabeth&quot; is history as story-telling (as it should be) -- true, crackling good stories, too.	2001-02-05
US	50899145	RE75WL861TOJ	0809040336	23829202	Duke Hamilton Is Dead!: A Story of Aristocratic Life and Death in Stuart Britain	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Politics are for the Rich	Victor Stater, the author of &quot;Duke Hamilton is Dead,&quot; writes with a peppy affection for his subject, which is ostensibly, the legal calumnies of two peers of the realm, fighting it out over a hefty inheritence.  But Mr. Stater goes beyond the legal intricacies by throwing in a wealth of rich social and anecedotal material about a period in British history that has always seemed a bit tame -- the later years of the Stuart dynasty.  With merry Charles II gone, and his Catholic brother James II forced off the throne, the late 17th and early 18th century Britons were ruled by the rather dull William and Mary, and then Mary's unfortunate sister Anne (who bore over a dozen children, only one of whom survived, and that one, a severally handicapped child, died at 11). Mr. Stater makes this era come alive through the framework of the contentiousness of the Earl of Mohun and the Duke of Hamilton, both striving for political power, both intriguers and both dead set on paying for their political ambitions with a disputed inheritence.  All in all, a lively look at the period with a wealth of juicy details.  But the foremost lesson to be learned here is that, whether it be 1700 or 2000, politics is still a game reserved for the very wealthy.	2000-10-04
US	50899145	R19MRMFDEC4RSU	0375402098	204334426	Wainewright the Poisoner: The confession of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright--Regency author, painter, swindler, and probable murderer--brilliantly woven from historical fragments	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Fascinating Hybrid of Fact and Fiction	Andrew Motion has blended two of my favorite genres -- true crime and historical biography -- then wrapped the whole in a carefully crafted and very clever fictional fabric.  Surprisingly, &quot;Wainewright the Poisoner&quot; holds up on all levels: as a deft work of literature, an insightful biography and a masterful mystery.  I enjoyed the brief, incise chapters of the &quot;Confession&quot; followed by the scholarly footnotes liming the real Wainewright (as available from exisiting sources), the times in which he lived and the extraordinary cast of characters (real) with whom he associated, ranging from Byron and Blake to the inmates of that prison island, Van Dieman's Land (Tasmania). The ease with which Motion moves from the scholarly to flights of fancy (his own as well as the unstable Wainewright's) makes this book one of the most satisfactory, and unusal, reading experiences I've had in quite some time.  Very well done, well done indeed.	2000-09-26
US	50899145	R12T7AWS4SRV6F	0865475105	53679096	Son of the Morning Star: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Naughty Little Audie	A good brisk debunking of Custer is always enjoyable.  Not only is the  traditional interpretation of the battle at the Little Big Horn an insult  to the miltary prowess of the Native American, it is also an insult to the  7th Cavalry, that gallant troop Custer so dishonored with his vainglorious  judgement.  Evan Connell has a real talent for prose, and he lends it to  this story of a man who had the misfortune to believe his own legend and  died as a result of that belief.  Somehow, and this was a neat trick,  Custer killed himself and many of his men in an act of pure hubris and  refusal to credit Indians with any capacity for organization, and STILL  became a national hero.  Connell rightly places the blame for this  myth-making on his wife, Elizabeth, who spend her widowhood creating and  maintaining the Cult of Custer.  &quot;Son of Morning Star&quot; goes well  towards putting things to right.	2000-08-03
US	50899145	R1NKVFUPEL8VXA	0802137032	67233016	Prince of Pleasure: The Prince of Wales and the Making of the Regency	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Georgie Porgie	The truly odious Prince Regent, later George IV, was fat, vain, hateful to his family, cruel to his Queen and a spendthrift of the highest order:  but he had great taste -- in interior decoration and clothing, food and wine.  Much of what we admire of English literature, decor and architecture today  blossomed during the early part of the 19th c. when George, Prince of  Whales, waited and waited for his mad father, George III to succumb to  prophyria. &quot;Prince of Pleasure&quot; does what few other books on the  Regent bother to do -- it looks beyond George's excesses and flamboyance,  his Chinese fantasy at Brighton, his parties for hundreds, his  &quot;secret&quot; marriage to Marie Fitzherbert and all the other  delightful gossip of history to the real political dynamics behind the  boozing and building.  Fox and Pitt get their due, along with Napolean and  Wellington (who, with Nelson, were the superstars of their day), the lovely  Duchess of Devonshire and her fast set (so well limned in the excellent  &quot;Georgianna&quot;)and other fascinating characters -- saints and  sinners alike -- surrounding and surmounting &quot;Prinny&quot; and his  very louche circle.  A good compliment to Caroly Erickson's &quot;Our  Tempestuous Day,&quot; &quot;Prince of Pleasure&quot; is a real find for  both the casual and serious reader of this period. Compare the legacy of  this King of England who regularly passed out drunk in public, wore a  corset and heavy make-up, frivoled away his reign and public funds on  redecorating his various houses, married bigamously and tried to convict  his wife of treason to get rid of her to the deadly dull Windsors sitting  on the throne today, and try to remember why anyone got their knickers in a  twist over &quot;Squiggygate.&quot;	2000-07-28
US	50899145	R395IB5F80J6AV	0786706414	783196236	Voltaire in Love	Books	4	45	45	N	Y	Voltaire is  so Adorable, Do Admit!	Nancy Mitford is not the author to look to if you like your history full of facts and wars and power politics.  Nancy Mitford takes a difference approach, one more concerned with how simply delightful things (especially  French things) were before that really vulgar revolution took all the fun  out of being an aristocrat.  She sees Voltaire as not only the pre-eminent  humanist philosopher and writer of his time, but also as a sentimental fool  who just could not help but run off with the lovely, but rather too  intellectual Marquise de Chatelet. They kept getting into all sorts of  elegant French trouble with the censors and the court, all the while being  dreadfully brilliant about the whole state of the world. Delicious scamps!  Miss Mitford's historic accuracy is not in question, nor are her skills as  a writer or biographer.  But she is more of a gossip than not, and is  certainly more of an unmitigated snob about the French aristocracy than  some down-to-earth readers might like.  I for one adore this cosy, catty  biography, and find it a welcome anecdote to the tons of weighty tomes on  Voltaire and his endless epistolary relationships.  Miss Mitford writes  pastry -- light, airy and fluffy and yummy. She lets the others serve up  full-course histories, heavy, balanced, probably good for you, but so often  bland as oatmeal as just as charming.	2000-07-28
US	50899145	RC9V9JKJCDLSK	0688139574	243297356	Just So Stories (Books of Wonder Classics)	Books	3	5	31	N	N	Just So-So	Rudyard Kipling was not a great writer, but he was a pretty good story-teller, as this collection makes clear.  His sentiments, however, are hopelessly mawkish, cloyingly middle-class and really very racist.  To put  in another way, Kipling was very much a man of his times and background, an  Anglo-Indian, fiercly pro-Empire and anti-wog.  His stories, especially  those made familiar to us by Walt Disney, are quite charming and still  stand up to a quick read at bedtime.  It perhaps most telling of Kipling's  career that he was a celebrity on an international scale, and won the  Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1907, but is now best remembered for movies  starring Shirley Temple and Sabu.	2000-07-26
US	50899145	R31TMIANS6QG1O	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Good versus Evil versus Homework	I like the Harry Potter series and I have enjoyed reading all of them, and I think &quot;The Goblet of Fire&quot; is an excellent addition to the series.  This is not children's literature on the level of &quot;Alice in  Wonderland,&quot; but then, what modern child could possibly read and  understand this now-classic today?  The nice thing about Harry Potter books  is that they are full of excellent and amusing details: the quirks of the  professors at Hogwarts, the array of sweets that explode or surprise, the  range of good and evil in the characters...all of whom are better defined  than Harry himself.  The fight between good and evil (evil may come close,  but we are comforted in knowing that good will eventually prevail) is  exciting and helps to move the action along in between discursive bits on  classwork in Potions or the History of Magic, but the books, this one  especially, lack a hero.  Harry Potter is more a collection of facts (scar,  parents' deaths, awful family, green eyes, etc) than a real person who, put  to the test and tried, triumphs for reasons of character.  Harry isn't a  hero, he isn't even as interesting as most of the other young wizards he  knows, and certainly not as interesting as the grown-ups.  &quot;The Goblet  of Fire&quot; has a REAL hero, however: Cedric Diggory.  He seems to embody  all the admirable traits that Harry is credited with.  I look forward to  the next installment of this series, and I also look forward to the  characters' growth as they grow older and as the plot thickens (as it  certainly has) and they rise to meet the challenges of good and evil,  everyday and extra-ordinary.	2000-07-10
US	50899145	R3RCGSR5KGW5QI	0226560686	128934076	A Prescription for Murder: The Victorian Serial Killings of Dr. Thomas Neill Cream (The Chicago Series on Sexuality, History, and Society)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Bad Medicine	Neill Cream, the doctor/serial killer was one of a number of Victorian medical murderers who flourished in 19th c. England.  Feeding unwary prostitutues various poisons and then following their cases in the press,  stirring up interest when the police failed to uncover the crimes, making  near-confessions to other people are all now commonly recognized behavior  patterns of sexual killers. Viewing this case in light of the recent  science of criminal profiling, this book provides a most fascinating  example of 20/20 hindsight. In late 19th c. England doctor-killers (among  them Pritchard, Palmer etc), were seen as absolutely evil (especially after  the unsolved Whitechapel horrors) and no attempt was made to understand the  psychological quirks that led Cream et al. to the gallows (where he forever  taunted crime buffs with with words &quot;I am Jack...&quot; as the trap  fell). The study of killers such as Cream distanced by time and culture  make them seem almost quaint, and certainly safe, compared with the  grotesque sensationalism sexual predators attract today. With fewer graphic  details, less scientifc jargon and the titalation of Victorian repression  coloring the crimes, &quot;Prescription for Murder&quot; is an almost  &quot;cosy&quot; true crime story.  Admittedly, it is not over-burdened  with an insistance on factual accuracy or with providing a throughtful  historical framework, but it still a satisfying read for all true crime  buffs.  Especially those who like their thrills at a safe remove.	2000-07-04
US	50899145	R1FI784BQGFEBQ	0671880845	791510632	Daddy Was the Black Dahlia Killer: The Identity of America's Most Notorious Serial Murderer--Revealed at Last	Books	1	16	18	N	N	My Heart Belongs to Daddy	Spurious, opportunistic, vulgar and poorly written, this book is one of the poorest purposes to which paper has ever been put. The reasoning is idiotic, the ties to fact fragile to non-existent and the obvious need of  the author to attract attention -- any attention at any cost -- make this a  nausating read.  The Black Dahlia case, a classic unsolved murder which has  gripped imaginations for over 50 years, has generated any number of  fabulous speculations, but none so ill-conceived as this piece of pure  trash. Spare yourself.	2000-07-04
US	50899145	RN4DIY9L1RHYI	0679451412	135864042	Orchid Fever: A Horticultural Tale of Love, Lust, and Lunacy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Love=Orchids, Lunacy=Bureaucracy	This is one of the most opinionated books I have ever read: it is zealous in its simple examples of right and wrong.  Orchids and the people who love them are Good.  The offical agencies that are supposed to regulate the  orchid trade and conserve them are very, very Bad.  It is also clear that  the people who love orchids are not only good, they are also fetishists  about the things, and all evidence to the contrary (evidence from the  Nazi-like bureaucrats who invade greenhouses armed with attack dogs and  semi-automatic weapons) everything they do in is in the best interests of  the orchids.  I could not figure out if there were too few orchids in the  world or too many or which of what kind. Either they need rescuing from  looming civilization, or there are so many of them it is stupid to regulate  their trade at all.  Every one who rescues them from the wild is doing a  good thing, although they do not seem need to be saved as much as left  alone. It is clear, however, that Hansen dotes on his eccentric cast of  characters, complete with their sexually tinged, highly volatile love of  these flowers, peculiar personal quirks, emotional disorders and nasty  in-fighting.  I, too, have been overwhelmed by the lush beauty of orchids  at flower shows or botanical gardens, and am always sad to see the ones  sent as gifts wither under my care. Still, I am happy to say that I have  never lusted after them in the way Hansen's friends do -- making a religion  of a plant just isn't in me.  One thing:  Hansen's opening sentence is just  about the best one since &quot;It was the worst of times, it was the best  of time...&quot; Apparently that goes for orchids too.	2000-06-29
US	50899145	RTM1OEJLLM2V1	0883940884	53679096	Son of the Morning Star	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Naughty little Audie	Debunking Custer is long overdue.  Not only is the misrepresentation of Little Big Horn an insult to Native Americans, it is also an insult to the 7th Cavalry, that gallant troop Custer so dishonored with his vanity and  poor judgement. Evan Connell has a talent for prose, and he lends that gift  to this story of a man who had the misfortune to believe his own legend and  died as a result. Somehow, and this was a neat trick, Custer killed himself  and many of his men in an act of pure hubris and refusal to credit Indians  with any tactical genius, and STILL became a national hero.  I, along with  Connell, blame his wife Elizabeth for creating and maintaining the cult of  Custer only now being put to rights.	2000-06-29
US	50899145	R183MY40EWYGZF	0140239677	177316168	The Sun King	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Chatty and Charming	Nancy Mitford is not so much a historian as a gossip.  She loves using words like delicious or delightful that more scholarly types would eschew.  But her histories are delicious, full of little details of dress and  deportment, disapproving profiles of people who weren't much fun.  She  forgives the extravagant Sun King for and his heirs for bankrupting France  because they did it with exquisite style and taste.  Although I want to  disapprove of Nancy's chats on the basis of their casualness and fawning  over the rich and lovely, I just cannot help loving them. As she so often  said, &quot;Oh, admit!&quot; I do.	2000-06-21
US	50899145	RBSDMI13I2XFZ	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The Genius Staggers, Then Falls	This is a truly heartbreaking work, despite its self-conscious unself-consciousness.  Eggers is a truly gifted storyteller, and he does try (and often suceeds) to make his heartbreak both real and funny and sad.  Unfortunately, he is just a little too pleased with himself and comes  across as being rather immature and smug.  The genuine pathos of his story  is captivating, and his honesty about what he and his family  &quot;deserve&quot; for their suffering is spot on.  The last half of the  book falls flat, he loses his narrative and gets a lot too Zen about beach  frisbee and the like, losing focus and clarity.  This is a courageous book,  however, and it nearly works on all the levels Eggers is trying to plumb.  But its true hero is Toph.  I want to read his book.  That would be  staggering.	2000-05-09
US	50899145	RN8JLIGI15WDL	006039269X	307548295	Royal Blood: Richard III and the Mystery of the Princes	Books	2	22	29	N	N	Poor Alison Weir	Mr. Fields seems not so much a revisionist Richardian, as a foe of noted biographer Alison Weir.  He really picks on her recent book in which she &quot;proves&quot; that Richard III was the evil uncle. Fields's legal  background does bring an interesting approach to the fate of Richard's  nephews, but he is a bit sloppy, contradicting himself and really not  sticking to his analytical guns.  To be honest, I will read just about  anything about Richard III: he is a fascinating character, for good or bad,  crooked or even shouldered.  Still and all, nothing beats out Josephine  Tey's &quot;Daughter of Time&quot; for sheer pleasure. I don't care if she  wrote bad history. It was that novel that awakened me to the great joys of  historical research and the need to look at all sides of an issue.  I am  not convinced by Fields or Weir, but I am willing to consider anything a  dedicated, even obsessive, historian writes about Richard III, just for the  fun of comparing and contrasting these heart-felt views. May the debate  rage on!	2000-03-24
US	50899145	R1AW4EHPKLPSLZ	0812212738	142433910	Clara Barton, Professional Angel (Studies in Health, Illness, and Caregiving)	Books	4	45	49	N	N	Clara Barton: Pushy Broad	I enjoyed this biography of Barton as it covered more than just her years as a Civil War nurse & battlefield angel.  Pryor gives life to Barton, exposing her touching little secrets (she liked to take a nip now and then,  had a romance with a married man & dyed her hair) as well as her  less-than-saintly personality (she was fiercly competive with other  reformers like Dorthea Dix and really like being in the spotlight).  Her  two major accomplishments -- her battlefield nursing and the founding of the  American Red Cross -- came about through stubborn sacrifice and real  dedication. She got done what she did because she was relentless in  achieving her purposes. Her pushiness knew no bounds: she called on  neighbors and politicians, asked for favors, used emotional blackmail and  wasn't always sweet as pie about it all.  Pryor's admiration for her  subject is evident and she reveals Clara as a modern woman who used any and  every resource available at a time when no one was inclined to support such  activity. I came away from this book liking Clara Barton, even with her  halo slightly tarnished.	2000-03-24
US	50899145	RI5S18E3PIY56	0374226385	289107622	On the Rez	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	The Heart of the Heart of the Country	Maybe it is because I'm from Kansas that Ian Frazier has stolen my heart, first with \\"Great Plains\\" and now with \\"On the Rez.\\"  It is his straightfordward, unembarrassed approach to the lives Native  Americans and his own unaplogetic yearning to belong, that makes this book  so compelling.  Frazier's love of America's past and fervid admiration of  its near mythic heroes in no way keeps him from giving us an unsparing,  unsentimental account of life on an Indian reservation today.  Still  Frazier reignights in us the pride we felt when as children we said the  Pledge of Alligence and meant it or sang \\"from sea to shining  sea\\" and imagined those vast fields of gold.  The American West, its  people, its history and its physical enormity, its joys and losses are  summed up in one story in \\"On the Rez.\\" It is one hell of a  story, all about a real American hero, a young Native American girl who  played basketball like a prayer, and Frazier makes us see how she was able  to use her whole being to redeem the pristine America that Frazier still  sees.  The people he meets on the rez, their stories, fact and fiction,  make him see that America is still a good place to find heroes, and he  makes you see it too.	2000-02-23
US	50899145	R3MVNHIVEKGAGS	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Don't Know Much About Astronomy	It is refreshing to read a work of scientific history told, by virtue of the extant documents, from the viewpoint of a woman.  &quot;Gallileo's Daughter,&quot; welcomes us to make assumptions about the actual role  Sister Marie Celeste played in the fascinating intellectual world in which  her father lived.  If nothing else, this book made me realize that I don't  know spit about astronomy, and I am looking for a good general text to  start making up for this failing.  To my mind, any book that piques my  curiosity and leads to new lessons is a very good book indeed.	2000-02-23
US	50899145	R997737D7WGP4	0520204093	629007473	The Lives of the Kings and Queens of England	Books	3	47	48	N	N	A Handy Dandy Guide to England's Rulers	This big picture book of kings and queens is a great reference work for anyone interested in English royal history.  The color illustrations are lavish, the brief biographies hit all high points and the geneologies of  the various royal houses are very useful when trying to trace the  convoluted relationships of England's royals. This is a handy book to have  around when you just can't figure out just how Germans ended up on the  British throne, can't remember which of Henry VIII's wives died on the  block or want to know why Queen Victoria died in the arms of Kaiser Wilhem.  Lots of information on all matters royal, including ancient traditions,  heraldry, issues of precedent, the crown jewels, court dress, palaces and  passtimes and other fun facts.  A good book to have close to hand.	2000-02-19
US	50899145	R31EN5XPNTVMDV	0312168586	57330046	Great Harry: A Biography of Henry VIII	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Great Biography	Carolly Erickson's Tudor and Stuart biographies are all splendid affairs.  &quot;Great Harry&quot; attacks the personality of this man and the issues with which he graplled in a compelling and well-researched fashion without  ever losing the reader's attention. Henry VIII was as big and grand as the  Tudor age and this book captures both well.  I also recommend Erickson's  other biographies, especially &quot;The First Elizabeth,&quot; about Henry  and Anne Boylen's (she was the second wife, the first to lose her head)  daughter. Truly one of the best popular historians writing about this  period.	2000-02-05
US	50899145	R172TFK1F77DFH	067973001X	461103067	The Wives of Henry VIII	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Divorced, Beheaded, Died, Divorced, Beheaded, Survived	The triple threat of Elizabeth Longford, Antonia Fraser and Flora Fraser (Mother, Daughter &amp; Grandaughter)have been providing us with readable yet fairly scholarly biographies for decades.  All of them are well  researched and certainly admired by historians and non-academics alike.  This particular book is a handy all-in-one guide to Henry VIII and his six  wives.  It is by necessity, rather shallow, as his marital woes  had and  have very important ramifications, and this volume cannot begin to address  these issues in depth.  Overall, a great read about a fascinating man at a  fascinating time. In truth, the women are not nearly as well fleshed out,  with the notable exception of Katherine of Aragon, largely because their  stories just were not as important as that of their husband to contemporary  writers, so their lives are not as well documented. The extent 16th c.  materials have been mined for individuals biographies of each woman, and  they do each deserve their own book. (Many such have been written, even  about poor Catherine Howard.)  This is a good book for a first look at  Tudor England. I like Lady Antonia and all her biographies, and those of  her mother and daughter. I just wish she would stop writing those shabby  mysteries.	2000-01-31
US	50899145	RC92SGRB07YOV	0679781242	43746893	The Embarrassment of Riches: An Interpretation of Dutch Culture in the Golden Age	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Simon Schama Riches	Just like everything this extraordinary writer has published, &quot;An Embarrassment of Riches&quot; is an astonishingly brilliant, insightful and thought-provoking cultural history.  I wait with hunger for his books;  fortunately they tend to be five-course dinners with dessert, brandy and  cigars afterwards. &quot;An Embarrassment&quot; is just such a literary and  historical feast. I cannot recommend Mr. Schama's books enough.	2000-01-31
