US	50891691	R1OTX0JZ3H8RYM	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	4	50	62	N	N	Articulate and Thoughtful: A Thinking Man's Michael Moore	Thomas Frank writes with sensitivity and insight on the way in which Kansas Evangelicals have chosen to vote against their own economic self-interest in favor of the conservative wing of the Republican Party, because the conservative wing of the Republican Party appeals to their religious values.  Mr. Frank's analysis is sharp, his writing is fluid, his eye for visual detail enlivens the text, and his knowledge of history gives his analysis depth.  One might say that Mr. Frank is a thinking man's Michael Moore. <br /> <br />Mr. Frank lays the blame for Kansan's embrace of conservative Republicanism on the Democrats.  Mr. Frank argues that the recent New Democrat movement has positioned itself only slightly to the left of the Republican Party: business-friendly and indifferent to the plight of blue collar workers.  Having no substantial choice in terms of economic differences, blue collar Americans vote according to the only substantial difference between the parties they see: moral values.  Of course, Democrats would argue that their differences with the Republican Party are more substantail than Mr. Frank portrays.  Books such as Molly Ivins' \\"Bushwacked\\" support the Democratic position. <br /> <br />Even so, Mr. Frank speaks to the debate going on in the Democratic Party now: whether to return to the left or to try to dominate the center?  The debate will continue, and the result, and even whether a consensus can be reached, is uncertain. <br /> <br />But even if the Democratic Party re-embraces populism, no-one can say that the political landscape Mr. Frank describes will change.  Choosing religion over economic advantage is no new or pernicious phenomenon, as history shows.  In ancient times, the Jews were conquered and forcefully expatriated to Babylon.  Eventually, they had the choice to remain in the comfort and splendor of Babylon, or to return to their broken homeland for the sake of their covenant relationship with God.  Many chose to return.  Those who returned changed history.  History swallowed up those who remained. <br /> <br />So it cannot necessarily be a bad thing that middle-Americans identify with a party that espouses religious values even when their economic interest lies elsewhere.  Democrats can rail against this phenomenon, or they can counterattack by emphasizing issues on which they, more than Republicans, carry the Judeo-Christian torch.  I believe that the Republican party genuinely has the more Biblical position on some issues, but the Democrats have the more Biblical position on many issues. <br /> <br />Truthfulness, for example.  Proverbs teams with pronouncements about God's disgust with lies.  Yet, as long as Carl Rove has anything to do with it, the Republican Party will excel at lying to the American public despite the best efforts of Democrats to catch up.  Look at the deception on Iraq in the last campaign.  Look at the wholesale fraud in characterizing John Kerry's proposed healthcare reforms.  Look at the Swift Boat adds.  I believe truthfulness is an issue on which the Republican Party is vulnerable, and this issue can resonate with people of religious sensibilities in both parties. <br /> <br />Treatment of prisoners.  Seymour Hersh's \\"Chain of Command\\" makes clear that the Bush administration has treated the Geneva Convention not as a consensus on humane treatment of human beings, but as a legalism to be circumvented by cunning lawyers.  The Abu Ghraib scandal saw little light in the last campaign, but unless the Bush administration rethinks it morally un-sustainable polisiton, mistreatment of prisoners will continue, and it will continue to disgust all decent Americans if light is shined upon it. <br /> <br />Stewardship of the environment.  God gave Man dominion over the earth and its creatures.  Spewing greenhouse gasses into the atmosphere is an ecological two-pack-a-day habit.  That is not good stewardship. <br /> <br />Privacy.  One cannot find an explicit Biblical endorsementof the value of privacy, although the same can be said of democracy.  But in 1 Corinthians, Paul encouraged slaves to obtain their freedom if they could.  Slaves could be quite comfortable, but they lacked autonomy, and autonomy is the bedrock of privacy, so a Biblical case can be made for the value of privacy.  Yet the Republican Party seems driven to push an agenda that shrinks autonomy in personal matters, not to mention the invasive-ness of the Patriot Act. Democrats should not go quietly on the issue of privacy, and they should appeal to like-minded Republicans on this issue. <br /> <br />If the Democrats cleave to these and other issues, they can serve suffering middle-Americans by ministering to their economic needs (as Mr. Frank well points out needs to be done) while showing red-staters that the Democrats have not ceded values-based policies to the Republicans.  Remember, Jimmy Carter won the Evangelical vote in 1976. <br /> <br />Finally, I cannot forebear commenting on some of Mr. Frank's concluding statements.  At the end of the book, Mr. Frank acknowledges the decline in our moral culture, but he lays the blame not on Democrats or Republicans but on \\"modern capitalism\\".  That makes one wonder what he proposes as an alternative.  True, totalitarian regimes tend to be prudish; they also tend to be wantonly corrupt, controlling and anti-religious.  If Mr. Frank's issue is whether capitalism should be reasonably regulated (as it now is with anti-monopoly legislation, worker safety rules, and wage/hour rules, for example) he speaks from the mainstream.  No line is crossed by debating how much or how little business should be regulated.  Even so, I found spooky his vague suggestion that the present culture wars serve the interest of shrewd capitalists.  To his credit, Mr. Frank portrays the cultural movement in Kansas as genuinely led by grassroots operators, even as he suggests that culture wars are provoked by the nefarious profit motive.  I debated whetherto give this book three or four stars.  In the end, I gave Mr. Frank the benefit of the doubt.	2004-11-07
US	50891691	R1WSNZVSREYJPA	039915258X	346813546	Bushworld	Books	5	51	66	N	N	Incendiary	I believe that H.L. Mencken once spoke of some class of persons who could not push a noun and verb together without blowing something up.  In that spirit, Maureen Dowd presents \\"Bush World\\".  To the most protective of Bush supporters, Dowd is a bomb thrower.  To anti-Bush partisans, Dowd's book is the Fourth of July.  To those in the middle, \\"Bush World\\" is a rumble to be investigated. <br /> <br />In \\"Bush World\\", Dowd compiles her columns in the New York Times since Bush appeared on the national stage.  Dowd writes with a cleverness that can be just a hazy memory to, well, a certain radio talk-show host who had conditioned his hard-core base to confuse scorn for wit.  Dowd is not like that; this book is the real thing. <br /> <br />These colums are quite critical of the Bush administration's actions and practices.  Some people might find this compilation too negative.  However, another Mencken quotation comes to mind: \\"Nine times out of ten, in the arts as in life, there is actually no truth to be discovered; there is only error to be exposed.\\" <br /> <br />You don't have to agree with what Dowd writes, in whole or in part, to value this book.  I have listened to very conservative commentators whom I strongly disagreed with, and I appreciate them when they are clever or interesting.  I expect my fellow citizens to the right-of-center likewise enjoy a differing viewpoint well put.  Maureen Dowd is, at least, very clever and interesting.  Nor did I agree with everything Dowd wrote in \\"Bush World\\".  For example, several times Dowd characterizes Dick Cheney's world-view as \\"Hobbesian\\".  So, what's wrong with Thomas Hobbes, who famously wrote, \\"[The state of nature consists of] . . . continual fear and danger of violent death; and the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\\"? Personally, I don't think there is anything wrong with Thomas Hobbes' perspective; nor, per se, with people who hold a Hobbesian world view. <br /> <br />I recommend \\"Bush World\\".It presents sharp commentary on and analysis of events that people who follow the news are already familiar with, at least in outline.  Reading through these columns, you will recall scandals and missteps that have happened in the last four years.  You might alternatively wince, smirk, and grow angry again.  Or, if your perspective disposes you to disagree with Dowd, at least you can be forewarned and forearmed for discussions you might have with friends on the left -- if not with friends on the right, some of whom have jumped off the Bush bandwagon based on the last four years. <br /> <br />If \\"Bush World\\" pleases you or challenges you in a good way, you might also enjoy or be challenged by \\"Bushwacked\\" by Molly Ivins.  The strength of that book is that it dissects actions by the Bush administration, many of which happened under the radar of the news cycle, but which have an enormous impact on average Americans.	2004-09-11
US	50891691	R26JDNUN654GMV	0399151761	499994644	Battle Ready (Study in Command)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Demolishes stereotypes	I suppose that professional military people will read &quot;Battle Ready&quot; avidly, following, as it does, the very interesting career of Tony Zinni, who retired as a four star Marine Corps general.  But it serves a non-military audience admirably, as well.<br />When I go to a Hollywood movie with a military character in it, I am pretty resigned to the fact that that character will be cartoon-like: some Hollywood writer's cliche of what a military man is like.  I grew up in a military family, so I know better; but many people don't.  And of all the services, I think the Marine Corps is the most vulnerable to such stereotypes.<br />You can't read this book and retain such a stereotype in your mind.  Tony Zinni is brilliant, subtle and nuanced.  His subtlety and brilliance come across in many ways, including his perspective on various well-known leaders he encountered in his forty-year career in the Corps and his peace-making special missions at the direction of the State Department after he retired from the Corps.<br />For example, even though I very much enjoyed the book &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; and recommend it, this book gives you a different perspective.  Tony Zinni was the chief of staff of the Joint Task Force in Somalia before the catastrophe occurred that is described in &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot;.  Formerly, I had read with grim satisfaction about the violent death of Mohammed Aideed, who is widely blamed for the American and Somali deaths in that episode.  Zinni has a differenty analysis.  He did not admire Aideed in the same way, for example, that he admired General Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan, but he considered Aideed manageable, and, in fact, he believed that Aideed was the only Somali leader with the ability to bring order to the chaos that was and is Somalia.  After Zinni left, the U.N. authorities and the U.S. military leadership that succeeded Zinni tried to marginalize Aideed, erroneously, in Zinni's opinion.  The events that led to the book&quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; were a miscalculation by all parties.<br />Zinni's perspective on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is equally interesting, though less surprising.  The Bush (43) administration sent Zinni to the Middle East as a special envoy to facilitate the peace process.  Zinni portrays Ariel Sharon as genuinely in love with his country, down-to-earth and direct.  He characterizes Yasser Arafat as charming but an unmitigated impediment to peace, who wants to be remembered as the great leader of the Palestinians who never yielded.  Zinni also describes in some detail the sickening role of extremists like Hamas in the impasse.<br />In all, &quot;Battle Ready&quot; is thought-provoking reading and highly recommended.	2004-06-20
US	50891691	R1C0BFILFPUFN8	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Family Portrait	&quot;Bush at War&quot; invites comparison with &quot;Against All Enemies&quot;.  These books could not lead the reader into more starkly contrasting conclusions about the capacity of the current administration.<br />Naturally, some people will explain the contrast in terms of motivation.  Some people will dismiss Clarke's book as the venal revenge of a disappointed civil servant.  To others, Woodward has portrayed his subjects sympathetically to ensure access for future books.<br />I don't think either book requires an ad homonym explanation.  The difference is really very simple.  Clarke's book is the result of somebody living the day-to-day activity of the White House and reporting what he has seen first-hand.  It is like a candid photograph.  In contrast, Woodward's book is like a posed family portrait.  Administration officials recounted their version of what happened, deeply conscious that what they said would end up in print.  To expand on the family portrait simile, &quot;Bush at War&quot; is like a portrait posed not by the photographer, but by the subjects, some of whom undoubtedly scrunch down a bit to make the Big Guy look bigger.<br />Still, once you get past the fact that the sources for &quot;Bush at War&quot; are self-conscious and self-serving, the book is eminently fascinating.  Bush comes across as supremely decisive.  Once he has chosen a course of action, he does not revisit his decision.  That is good or bad, depending upon the rightness of the original decision.  It is a quality that wins him popular admiration and support.  It is a quality that members of his administration act in consciousness of.  In one episode, National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice approached Bush with some misgivings about the direction of the war in Afghanistan.  The book protrays her as unwilling to broach her misgivings, except in the most indirect way, and, indeed, the meeting resulted in the President's decision to stay the course, reflecing a signature qualityof the President.<br />&quot;Bush at War&quot; provides insider details.  For example, the President dispatched Colin Powell to the Middle East for a hopeless mission to pour oil on particularly troubled waters between Israel and the Palestinians.  While he was out on that precarious limb, high unnamed administration rival were more than happy to saw it behind him.  Powell comes across as most under-appreciated.<br />Another example is a conference between chief of staff Andrew Card and the President.  Card was concerned that Bush was immersing himself too much in the details of the Afghanistan war.  He felt that Bush needed to be President, and he needed to let the generals be the generals.  Card invoked the specter of Lyndon Johnson, who famously micro-managed the Vietnam war, to warn Bush off over-involvement in military decision-making.  Bush reportedly took the advice to heart.<br />All in all, this is a valuable book, and when the reader is alert to its limitation, it gives valuable insights into the inside workings of the Bush White House.	2004-05-04
US	50891691	RMDXMOKFLE9DH	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Credible and disturbing	For all the hoopla, the Bush administration's lack of sufficient attention to terrorism is a relatively small, but compelling, part of &quot;Against All Enemies&quot;.  The larger portion of the book is a fascinating, intimate history of terrorism against the United States and America's response to it across several administrations, told by an eye-witness to history.   Clark's accusations against the Bush administration are important to consider in an election year with the President running on his anti-terrorism competence.  However, the longer history of American administrations and anti-terrorism gives the book a depth that makes it valuable apart from its timeliness to the election, because terrorism is and will continue to be a compelling public policy issue, and informed Americans will want to know more about the history and evolution of anti-terrorism in this county.  We are fortunate to have a book as lucid and compelling as this to inform us.<br />The book discusses events large and small -- as large as the emergence of terrorism in the Middle East and as small as the covert snatch of the assassin who murdered CIA employees outside CIA headquarters.  Particularly effecting, if of no international or national importance, was an incident from the goundbreaking of the Lockerbie memorial cairn in Ireland.  President Clinton turned over the first shovel-full of dirt with a five year old boy who had lost his father in that act of terrorism.   Then he whispered something in the boy's ear.  Clarke asked the boy's mother what the President had said.  Clinton had said, &quot;My father died before I was born too.  Be good to your Mom.&quot;  Say what you will about Clinton, he knew the right word at the right time.<br />I have heard Clarke say that he was critical in his book of the Clinton administration.  This is true.  He fervently argued for cruise missile attacks against the al Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan but was overruled.  He argued for a stronger response against the Iraqi assassination attempt against George H.W. Bush but was overruled.  However, he largely approved of the growing attentiveness of the Clinton administration to the growing threat of terrorism and he approved of the Clinton administration's activism and innovation against terrorism.  It is clear that Clarke admired Cliton personally for his grasp of terrorism policy and for his willingness to act boldly.<br />Then the administation changed.  The Bush administration did not &quot;get it&quot;.  The concept that al Qaeda was an urgent threat was foreign to them, and they significantly scaled back the progress that had been made against terrorism in Clinton's administration.  Call this democracy.  The American people had changed horses, as is their inviolable right, but the inexperience of the new leadership in terrorism matters created dissonance between the threat as perceived by holdovers from the Clinton administration and the threat as perceived by the new leaders of the Free World.  Clarke and others who had developed a deep appreciation of the threat posed by al Qaeda became the Cassandras of the new administration.  Then came 9/11.<br />When Clarke evaluates the Bush administration's response to 9/11, the gloves come off.  America largely perceives Bush's response as resolute, but Clarke paints it as floundering.  I am not surprised by the Bush administration's no-holds-barred, take-no-prisoners response to Clarke.  His critique is devastating.  To Clarke, Bush's expensive, distracting invasion of Iraq only undermined the security of this country while it drew resources away from the pursuit of America's imminent enemy, al Qaeda.<br />Afghanistan should have been the focus of America's efforts against terrorism, according to Clarke.  Instead, our efforts there were half-baked and tepid.  Afghanistan was a case of opportunities lost.  Clarke's evaluation of our current readiness to respond to terror is chilling and credible.<br />&quot;AgainstAll Enemies&quot; is timely and insightful.  I would hope its wisdom would be contemplated by all thoughtful Americans.	2004-03-28
US	50891691	R3COL8NG6ZZDJV	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspiring history	&quot;The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors&quot; has a David versus Goliath guality.  In this gripping history, American warships and sailors were the David to the Japanese force's Goliath.  This book admirably and fluently tells the story of how a vastly outnumbered and outgunned American naval force turned back, at great human cost, a superior Japanese force that surprised it in the Leyte Gulf off of the Philippines.  The sailors whose stories are narrated in this book prevailed because of thier energy, initiative, willing self-sacrifice and unselfish dedication to duty.  &quot;The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors&quot; is a fitting homage to men who performed in the highest tradition of the American military.  I highly recommend this inspiring book.	2004-03-17
US	50891691	RDJ7DQBLFYK2B	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Disturbing Insider's Perspective	\\"The Price of Loyalty\\" is an insider's perspective on an inside fight -- inside the Republican Party and particularly inside the Bush '43 White House.  Suskind's book articulates the view of former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill that the ideological wing of the Republican Party has ascended.  O'Neill, representing the pragmatic wing, is appalled.<br />Democratic and Republican pragmatists may be perturbed by what they read.  Politics inevitably influences policy, and that may even be a good thing.  But science should not be enslaved to ideology, as it was in the Bush '43 White House's Kyoto Protocol deliberations.  Tax cuts should not be enacted to please the Republican base at the price of a huge deficit, when responsible counsel (Alan Greenspan) points to an economy already on the mend and to long-term disastrous effects of that deficit.  American soldiers should not be sent to foreign lands to fight and die without compelling reason.  \\"The Price of Loyalty\\" makes the case that all of these unhappy occurrences transpired.<br />This book is more memoir than policy tome, but it articulates convincing positive positions that thoughtful members of both major parties could endorse, but which never saw legislative daylight.  For example, fiscal prudence.  For example, a paltry twenty-five million dollar foreign aid investment in an African country's water system that would have provided all its water needs, saved lives and exponentially advanced that country's economy -- creating a reservoir of good will that would have payed dividends far into the future.<br />This book gives credit where credit is due.  O'Neill admired some members of the administration -- for example, Christine Todd Whitman (now gone), Colin Powell, and Condoleezza Rice (whom O'Neill praises as an \\"honest broker\\" of divergent viewpoints).  Karen Hughes he compliments as pragmatic.<br />\\"The Price of Loyalty\\" raises questions for the reader to answer.  O'Neill admired President Ford's amazing grasp of issues and rigorous thought process.  Ford did not win re-election.  O'Neill also admired George H.W. Bush.  Bush '41 did not win re-election.  So, for a book that extols pragmatism and denigrates the opposite, the question arises: is the Bush '43 White House in its own way more pragmatic than its immediate Republican predecessors?  Isn't it smart for politics to trump policy?  The answer lies in the attentiveness of the American voter and the kind of leader they want.  Personally, I think O'Neill is prophetic, but time will tell whether he is a prophet of the Cassandra variety.	2004-02-21
US	50891691	R234LAZ9H5VDK3	0374529035	51727880	Naked in Baghdad: The Iraq War as Seen by NPR's Correspondent Anne Garrels	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A gifted journalist looks at wartime Baghdad	One sentence illuminates the spirit of Anne Garrels' \\"Naked in Baghdad\\": \\". . . I am fascinated by how people survive, and how the process of war affects the attitudes of all sides involved, and how they pull out of it.\\"  Thus, Garrels portrays the attitudes of Iraqis she encounters in Baghdad before, during, and after the entry of American armed forces into that city.<br />For example, Garrels' informants react to the omnipresent threat of catastropic violence.  They react to the early and -- it turned out -- wildly optimistic reports of heroic resistance by the Iraqi army (they reacted with pride, even though they might have secretly despised Saddam Hussein).  They react to the euphoric surprise of ugraded weaponry employed by the Americans and their allies, as compared to the 1991 war, because it proved more precise and therefor less disruptive of their lives.  They react to the rapid deployment of American troops to protect the Oil Ministry building, in contrast to the more leisurely deployment around national treasures such as the antiquities museum, or even hospitals, which were quickly looted.  Rightly or wrongly, this latter fact confirmed the belief in the streets of Baghdad that America fought this war for oil.<br />Garrel's renderings of the persons she encounters are compassionate and insightful.  Her affection for her guide and all-around enabler, Amer, is palpable.  In this sense, \\"Naked in Baghdad\\" is reminiscent of Freya Stark's \\"The Southern Gates of Arabia\\", based on Stark's 1934 journey through Hadhmaraut.<br />Garrels brings some depth to her reporting from Baghdad under Saddam Hussein.  She has reported from the Soviet Union, and she finds parallels between the atmosphere of the Soviet Union and that of Hussein's Iraq.  Suffice it to say one does not grow fonder of totalitarian regimes by reading the account of one who has had close contact with them.<br />Several books exist that follow American troops into Baghdad.  In contrast, in \\"Naked in Baghdad\\" one vicariously waits for the invasion with the people of Baghdad.  This book is a worthwhile glimpse into the Iraqi war and the fall of Hussein as perceived by the Iraqi people, filtered through the adroit reporting of an astute Western observer.	2004-01-22
US	50891691	RM6S322HULY9K	0743217802	276350978	They Marched Into Sunlight: War and Peace Vietnam and America October 1967	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Certain to be a classic	They Marched Into Sunlight deals principally with two events on consecutive days in October 1967: an ambush of American soldiers in Vietnam and a riot at the University of Wisconsin, Madison campus.  The book ranges wider than these specific events.  For example, at different times the author reveals secret counsels in LBJ's White House, the grand strategy of General Westmoreland, the private thoughts of a soldier in Vietnam, and the budding political consciousness of a University of Wisconsin freshman.<br />Author Maraniss skillfully narrates the ambush of the Black Lions battalion.  In the narrative leading up to the battle, the author introduces us to many of the soldiers and commanders who fought in it.  Their personal stories and the little details that reveal what it was like to be in Vietnam make those who walked into the ambush very real and sympathetic.  That makes the unfolding ambush terrible, but gripping, to read about.<br />As to the University of Wisconsin riot, many students did not want Dow Chemical Company to recruit on campus because it manufactured napalm.  The radical element physically blocked students from interviewing with Dow, which led to orders to disperse, which when refused led to violence.  The shock of seeing police swing clubs at the heads of protesters provoked a furious, aggressive, even violent reaction from many of the on-lookers.  As with the Vietnam component of the book, the author takes the reader into the lives and thoughts of various actors who had large or small roles in the melee -- students, teachers, police, administrators, even Dow personnel.<br />They Marched Into Sunlight is an inspired book.  The stories it tells unfold fluidly, and the characters the reader encounters are compelling.  The book largely focuses on events in a small window of time; however, in selecting a particular time to chronicle, the author manages to illuminate continuous themes of the Vietnam conflict at home and abroad.  Moreover, some of the issues raised in the book are timeless.  These include: (1) the twin tensions between obedience or resistance to, and trust or distrust of, authorities, and (2) how far some members of society can go to prevent others from making what the believe to be morally dubius choices.  Also timeless is a well-told story of men in combat.  I highly recommend this book.	2003-11-15
US	50891691	R3JJ2DK33GH9CP	074352893X	203325260	Pimsleur Spanish Level 2 CD: Learn to Speak and Understand Latin American Spanish with Pimsleur Language Programs (Comprehensive)	Books	5	89	97	N	N	Worth the money	I used the previous edition of Pimsleur Spanish II, but I'm sure this edition is only improved.<br />Pimsleur's level two Spanish lessons continue the excellence of level one.  Each lesson begins with a dialogue in Spanish to sharpen your listening comprehension.  Then it proceeds to a combination of techniques.  You are given a sentence in English to recite in Spanish, or instructed in Spanish to say something in Spanish, changing the verbs to fit your response.  When new words or phrases are introduced, they are repeated and used in different contexts so you can remember them.  The tapes give you time to repeat out loud to fix the words, sentences or phrases in your mind.  The pauses aren't long enough for you to translate from English to Spanish in your mind; you have to respond somewhat quickly in Spanish, as you would in a conversation with a Spanish speaker.<br />These lessons make adroit use of repetition.  If a word or phrase is introduced at the beginning of a lesson, it will pop up again toward the end.  Grammatical points and vocabulary introduced in earlier lessons will come up again in later lessons, to give you a chance to recall them.  These techniques make Pimsleur superior to other language self-study programs.<br />This is a wonderful program, and I highly recommend it.	2003-10-22
US	50891691	RO4LUKU5ZNOS4	0802714064	926540207	Edison and the Electric Chair: A Story of Light and Death	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Fascinating and broader than its title suggests	Two inventors and industrial giants grappled in commercial combat over primacy in the emerging electric power industry in the late 19th and early 20th century.  They were Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse.  The strategic hill of the battle was whether direct current (Edison) or alternating current (Westinghouse) would prevail.  Edison made the safer system, but Westinghouse made the more economical system, because alternating current could be transmitted over longer distances with fewer generating stations.<br />While the marketing battle raged, New York had the inspiration to move from execution by hanging to electrocution.  Hanging was notoriously fallible (necks did not snap so the victim strangled slowly, or necks snapped too well, decapitating the victim).  New York solicited the opinion of the foremost authority on electricity, Edison.  Edison, an opponent of the death penalty, demurred at first.  But the temptation to dramatically equate his enemy's system of electricity with death proved too strong.  Yes, Edison said, electrocution is just the thing, and alternating current is the best method of electrocution.<br />So New York's electrical execution law passed, and the appeal progressed of the first victim of the electric chair.  His attorney, W. Bourke Cockran, secretly paid by Westinghouse, argued that electrocution was cruel and unusual under the Constitution, and so could not be imposed.  Expert witness and secret Edison shill Harold Brown disagreed.  The case went all the way to the United States Supreme Court.<br />This book tells the story of how a convicted murderer, William Kemmler, became a pawn in a battle between electrical titans.  But the book is much more.  It is a history of the electrical industry when electrical power was new and miraculous, technologically on the cutting edge.  The book is also a history and sociology of the death penalty (very interesting), and a biography of Edison.  Edison & the Electric Chair is also a window into industrial-strength ruthlessness and a portrait of a time when powerful industries could defy laws, kill people, and get away with it.  The book also pauses to inform the reader of such things as how the electric chair kills (it cooks and carbonizes the brain), and of how the first death penalty electrocutions were badly botched (\\"He's alive!\\").<br />This book is readable and illuminating.  You might not change your mind about the death penalty after reading it, but your opinion will definitely be more profound.industrial-strength ruthlessness and a portrait of a time when powerful industries could defy laws, kill people, and get away with it.  The book also pauses to inform the reader of such things as how the electric chair kills (it cooks and carbonizes the brain), and of how the first death penalty electrocutions were badly botched (\\"He's alive!\\").<br />This book is readable and illuminating.  You might not change your mind about the death penalty after reading it, but your opinion will definitely be more profound.	2003-10-12
US	50891691	R2IH48RVTPILX9	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Controversial and thought-provoking	In &quot;Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith&quot;, author Jon Krakauer writes about the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (&quot;LDS Church&quot;), Mormon Fundamentalism, and especially about Dan and Ron Lafferty.  Dan and Ron Lafferty are two fundamentalist Mormons who cruelly murdered a young mother and her infant daughter, under the influence of real or imagined malevolent supernatural guidance.<br />Krakauer writes well, and the book moves quickly.  The author carefully researched the Laffertys and Mormon Fundamentalism.  On those subjects, Krakauer relies on interviews with present and former Mormon fundamentalists and Dan Lafferty himself.  Krakauer also studied transcripts of the criminal proceedings against the Laffertys.<br />The author's history of the LDS Church has provoked controversy.  I am previously familiar with LDS Church history only in outline, so I can't vouch for Krakauer's complete accuracy about that (acknowledging, of course, that complete confidence in historical conclusions is always perilous).  However, the author takes apparent pains to be fair and balanced.  For example, when he discusses historical atrocities committed by members of the LDS Church, he puts them in context of atrocities perpetrated against the LDS Church.  When he discusses the supernatural inspiration of LDS Church founder Joseph Smith, he does so without irony or condescension.  Krakauer discusses facts surrounding the origin of the LDS Church that outsiders might find peculiar and disturbing, but he also acknowledges the widely held opinion, which he shares, that Mormons themselves are fine and decent people.  Members of the LDS Church might not like or agree with some of what Krakauer writes, but he has not written with a venal spirit.  Far from it.<br />Yet to say that the author took pains to be fair is not to say he is unbiased.  In the last chapter of his book, Krakauer explains that he set out to write a book about thenature of religious belief.  He ended up writing about the murderous Lafferty brothers.  Brilliant author and fervent Christian G.K. Chesterton wrote about the venerated Saint Francis of Assisi, but Krakauer writes about men one can only despise.  The subject selection reveals the bias.<br />To be fair to Mr. Krakauer, he states that his work-in-progress detoured from the project he originally conceived.  However, the final product is what it is.  No one would expect a book that showcases notorious religious criminals to portray religion in a favorable light, and, indeed, it does not.  Other reviewers have pointed out places where the author's anti-religious bias is explicit.<br />In its broader implications, this book will be red meat for religious skeptics.  It will be thought provoking, even challenging, to person who are comfortable in their religious skin, and they might be deeper for having read it.  To persons of delicate religious sensibilities, it will be a 358 page justification for bringing back book burnings, unless they possess Mormon-bashing proclivities that blind them to the broader implications of the book.	2003-09-01
US	50891691	R36ZXMWV8M7961	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	24	31	N	N	A worthwhile window into hard life in America, but . . .	In this book, author Ehrenreich takes low-paying jobs in different American cities and describes her experiences, both on the job and at living on her adopted wages.<br />This book is an engaging read.  One feels for the author's fellow workers, and the author makes interesting points.  For example, &quot;unskilled&quot; labor in America is not necessarily unskilled.  There was a learning curve to every job the author undertook.  Also, the author's co-workers in her journey among the working poor were not lazy, shiftless, non-starters, nor sub-normally intelligent.  They worked hard at jobs many people would consider unsatisfying, for small remuneration.  This book provides a glimpse at an element of society that most of us rarely encounter in any meaningful way, and what we see through Ehrenreich's eyes will probably surprise some.  It may even make us more compassionate toward the working poor, a worthy end.<br />My criticism of the book emerges from the author's obvious sympathy for communist systems, evident in her casual quotation of Mao Tse Dong and her insertion of Marxist jargon.  I have visited communist countries, lived in China for two years, and studied history.  I can only suppose that Ms. Ehrenreich's admiration for communism is only theoretical.  Anyone who thinks it is cool to quote Mao Tse Dong should please read some of the memoirs that emerged from his reign, like Jung Chang's &quot;Wild Swans&quot; or Wu's &quot;A Single Tear&quot;.  The suffering of the protagonists in these fine books is not theoretical.  Multiply their stories by many millions, and you get an accurate picture of life under Mao.  Alexander Solzhenitsyn's books are a good antidote to sympathy for Soviet communism, if the revelations of death and terror under Stalin, well known now, does not suffice for that purpose.<br />And if the author thinks living is difficult in the lowest-paying jobs in America, which it undoubtedly is, I invite her to try the same experiment in China, and to try being a human dray horse pulling a heavy coal cart all day.  And that is what you see in the prosperous Chinese cities, under the comparatively enlightened economic policies initiated by Deng Xiao Ping and carried forward by his successors.  I hate to think what you would see in the parts of China so poor that foreigners aren't allowed to travel there.  To say nothing of the loss of political freedom that her emersion in a communist country would entail if she truly were to live like the masses. <br />If not for the author's erroneous ideology, I would give this book four or five stars.	2003-08-04
US	50891691	R38P8J2D86VZS8	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Thought-provoking but also disturbing pulp history	It's hard to hate a book that bashes communism.  So I am less critical of \\"Treason\\" than I might be, but less admiring of it than I could have been.<BR>Meaning no disrespect, but one appreciates Ann Coulter's new book more if one's knowledge of 20th century history is limited to Elvis Presley.  For example, persons who thought they knew something about 20th century history will be astonished to learn from Coulter that the Cuban Missile Crisis, which resulted in the Soviet Union withdrawing its nuclear missiles from Cuba, was a humiliating defeat for America.<BR>History is not kind to the thesis of Coulter's book.  Take Coulter's vilification of Harry Truman for being soft on communism.  That is hard to reconcile with the Truman Doctrine.  That doctrine arose when communist insurgencies threatened Greece and Turkey.  Truman went to the isolationist Republican Congress and persuaded it to supply $400,000,000 in aid to those countries.  In so doing, Truman announced that America would \\"support free peoples\\" against \\"attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressure.\\"  He declared America's material support of free peoples \\"against aggressive movements that seek to impose upon them totalitarian regimes.\\"  Not to mention that even before the announcement of the Truman Doctrine, Truman sent a naval battle group to the Mediterranean to challenge Soviet aggression there.<BR>As much as Coulter reviles Truman, even calling him a \\"dupe of the communists\\", it is strange that Condoleeza Rice told Time Magazine that she considered Truman to be the man of the last century.  But what does Condoleeza Rice know?  She is only Bush's National Security Advisor.  Coulter is a lawyer.  Never mind that Truman created the CIA and the National Security Agency and fought the Korean War.<BR>Speaking of the Korean War, Coulter excoriates Truman for supposedly burdening Douglas MacArthur with politically-based constraints that kept him from winning the war, then relieving him of command.  MacArthur was a great man, and his landing at Inchon was brilliant, but he was also a tired man.  When he was relieved, his troops were demoralized and south of Seoul.  Matthew Ridgeway took over, energized the troops, re-took Seoul, and pushed above the 38th parallel.<BR>Just as Coulter reviles Truman, she effuses praise on Joseph McCarthy.  It's too bad that Coulter didn't write in the 1950's.  If iconic Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower had read her book, maybe he would have despised McCarthy less.<BR>On the subject of McCarthy, Coulter points to the recently de-classified Venona cable interceptions to show that some of the persons that McCarthy accused were indeed Soviet spies.  To Coulter, this means that McCarthy was a Great Man, as opposed to proof of the old adage that sometimes even a blind squirrel finds a nut.  Even her revered Richard Nixon distanced himself from McCarthy's tactics, in 1960 saying that it was vital to use a rifle instead of a shotgun to ferret out communists.<BR>Coulter is adroit at omission.  She showcases the popularity of McCarthy by citing a Gallup poll that showed that Americans were 50 percent pro-McCarthy and 29 percent con.  She claims only the nasty, effete liberals in the media and Congress opposed McCarthy.  She apparently did not know of a Gallup poll taken only six months later, after the Army-McCarthy hearings, that showed a dramatic reversal in McCarthy's popularity: 35 percent pro and 45 percent con.<BR>As an aside, Coulter castigates historians of the McCarthy era for relying on secondary sources rather than original sources, as expressed in their footnotes.  Naturally, many readers at this point in the book will flip back to Coulter's own footnotes to discover -- well, I won't spoil the surprise.<BR>To her credit, Coulter is persuasive in attributing the fall of the Soviet empire to Ronald Reagan, but I can't credit her claim that Reagan won the Cold War by himself.  There were many factors, including the Soviet Union's systemic economic vulnerability and the fortunate presence of a President with the will and intelligence to exploit it.  The Reagan administration might have benefited from a high-level Soviet defector who described the economic vulnerability of the Soviet Union.  Histories and memoirs will one day reveal whether this influenced Reagan's policy.<BR>On a personal level, what I find most disturbing in Coulter's book is her statement \\"Liberals choose Man.  Conservatives choose God.\\"  She reiterates this point in her conclusion: \\"Conservaties believe man was created in God's image; liberals believe they are God.\\"  I have lived among Christians all my life.  I was even a Christian worker in China for two years.  I have known many Christians who were liberals.  I have known pastors who were raging liberals.  Perhaps the rejoinder is that they were not real Christians.  But if the quality of one's walk with God is what really counts, I must say that among all the Christians I have known, only two were Christ-like.  One was a seminary professor and the other was a secretary from Brazil.  And I could not tell you their political orientation -- conservative or liberal -- because those labels simply did not attach to them in any visible, important way.  This is something that Ms. Coulter should pause to consider as she provokes a jihad against liberalism.	2003-07-20
US	50891691	R1J4I31I59Z6PS	0870814095	755786236	The Explorer's Guide to Death Valley National Park (Travel and Local Interest)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	It will make your Death Valley trip great	It would take years of visits to Death Valley to enjoy all the trips outlined in this book, and without this book, you won't get as much out of them.  This book really made my recent trip to Death Valley a success.<BR>One suggestion: get a map to use with this book.  The book itself has only tiny outline-maps of the various trips described imposed on small silhouettes of Death Valley. A map will help you get an overview of where you are and where you want to go.  A map will make it easier to plan your itinerary.  I used Tom Harrison's excellent map of Death Valley, which you can score at outdoor-oriented stores. When you pay your user-fee at the park, they also will give you a simple map.<BR>Enjoy.	2003-05-07
US	50891691	R2BOTCQ8F6RHET	0802139396	11509057	Scourge: The Once and Future Threat of Smallpox	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Timely and compelling	This book discusses the natural history of smallpox, its use as a military weapon, the dramatic campaign that eliminated it in nature, the debate about eliminating it in known laboratories, and the threat of its use in bioterrorism.<BR>Tucker introduces the reader to interesting but little-known facts about smallpox in history. For example, during the Revolutionary War, Benedict Arnold laid siege to Quebek City. The commander of Quebek sent smallpox-variolated civilians to mingle among the Continental Army troops, and within weeks a massive epidemic broke out. The Continental Army burried its dead in mass graves and retreated in disorder. The author concludes that \\"Were it not for that epidemic, Quebek and perhaps all Canada might be part of the United States today.\\"<BR>The discussion of smallpox as an instrument of terrorism is chilling. For example, Tucker reports a Pentagon adviser's concern that \\"if a ruthless tyrant like Saddam Hussein had his back to the wall and nothing left to lose, he might consider unleashing smallpox against his enemies as a final instrument of revenge.\\" Indeed, Iraq is suspected of harboring secret smallpox stocks, based on circumstantial evidence discussed in the book.  Another expert characterizes the threat of a smallpox attack as a \\"low probability, high impact\\" risk.<BR>\\"Scourge\\" is relevant, timely and a pretty good read.	2003-03-29
US	50891691	R3O6F6CPUKN67W	8434309629	282275124	The Prado Museum	Books	4	45	47	N	N	Fine prints from a great museum	This book contains fine prints of great art from a wonderful museum. It will be valued by persons who like great art, or by people who have visited the Prado and want a momento that they can page through to jog their memory of what they saw there. Some of the prints will be new to them: the Prado's collection is so vast that only a small portion of it can be displayed at a time.<BR>Obviously, the compilers necessarily had to be selective about what they put in the book. I liked the selection of paintings by Goya but was mildly disappointed that it did not include \\"Saturn\\". Also, the compilers have made a decision to broadly cover the artists represented at the Prado, rather than making an exhaustive compilation of some of the artists that a Prado visitor might particularly have focused on, such as El Greco, Velazquez or Goya.<BR>This is basically a book of prints, so the accompanying text is not, to my mind, a major contribution to the value of the book. The text covers the history of the museum and how the collection came into being. It briefly discusses the different \\"schools\\" of art represented in the museum: \\"Spanish School\\", \\"Italian School\\", \\"German School\\", etc. The part of the text dedicated to Velazquez is only a page and a half long (although they are big pages). For somebody without a background in art history who wants to prepare to make their Prado visit more meaningful, I will say that I benefited from reading Tomlinson's \\"Fransisco Goya y Lucientes: 1746-1828\\" and Brown's \\"Velazquez\\".	2003-03-17
US	50891691	R3NHY49ATIQY5F	1562614797	23931848	Rick Steves' Spanish & Portugese Phrasebook & Dictionary (Rick Steves' Phrase Books) (English, Spanish and Portuguese Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Handy, up-to-date	This is a handy, up-to-date helper for people traveling on the Iberian peninsula.  More than Northern European countries, some knowledge of the local language is necessary in Iberia.  (Actaully, I'm speaking only from personal knowledge of Spain; I didn't travel in Portugal.)  The book is divided into sections, including &quot;Basics&quot;, &quot;Numbers, Time &amp; Money&quot;, &quot;Sleeping&quot;, &quot;Eating&quot;, &quot;Transportation&quot;, &quot;Sightseeing, Shoping &amp; Entertainment&quot;, &quot;Phoning, E-mail, Post Office &amp; Red Tape&quot;, &quot;Health&quot;, &quot;Help&quot; and &quot;Chatting&quot;.  The e-mail section both tells you how to get directions to a nearby internet cafe and translates operation terms that may appear on your screen.  That's very handy if you want to use the internet to communicate with the folks back home or get messages from them while on your vacation.<BR>Overall, I was impressed by this phrasebook and dictionary.	2003-03-10
US	50891691	R19K1VIG2S2B17	070061009X	309119140	Reinventing Democrats	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Democratic Party's recent history and near future	Reinventing Democrats chronicles the efforts of the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC) to shift the Democratic Party from its liberal orientation to a more centrist position.  It details the DLC's strategies, its successes and its failures up to the 2000 primaries, before the Democratic Party had selected a candidate.  It makes a compelling case that the Democratic Party needs to (1) select public policies that are fiscally responsible, business friendly, and, in short, consonant with middle-class values and (2) eschew or de-emphasize policies that are attractive primarily to the party's issue-activists -- this being necessary to occupy the mainstream of American political thought and avoid becoming politically marginalized.  This message is particularly relevant now (2003) that some Democrats are panicking over the 2002 mid-term election results and calling for a shift back to the left, effectively seeking to reverse the successful course set by Clinton after the disaster of the 1994 mid-term elections.<br />Clinton was elected on a New Democrat (i.e. DLC) platform, but he commenced to govern, or was perceived to govern, with a liberal agenda.  This led to his plummeting popularity and the mid-term disaster of 1994, and at the time it appeared he would be retired after one term.  Since a good scare is always more valuable than good advice, he embraced a New Democratic agenda in his second two years and, with a little help from the Republicans, he won a handy victory in 1996, vindicating the DLC in the process.  In all likelihood the New Democratic philosophy (embodied in Al Gore) would have achieved further electoral vindication in 2000 but for unfortunate lapses in the Oval Office and mis-steps thereafter -- the 2000 election was close;  Clinton-exhaustion seems to have been a factor.<br />This book narrates events in a Democratic evolution that is still taking place, and the success of which is not guaranteed.  If you care about public policy and the future of the Democratic Party, or just like to look inside the political process, this book is worth a read.	2003-01-11
US	50891691	R1RENTJTHMSRKD	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A worthwhile account of a lesser known but crucial campaign	An Army at Dawn chronicles the Allied campaign in North Africa, a bloody affair that was a necessary precursor to the Allies' ultimate victory in Europe. This campaign had strategic importance. It gave the Allies dominance in the Mediterranean. It changed the dynamic of the war. Before North Africa, \\"the Axis had been advancing inexorably on all fronts. . ..\\" By the end of the campaign, \\"only in the U-boat campaign did the Axis retain anything like a sustained offensive . . ..\\"<BR>North Africa also was a crucible for American generals and soldiers. In this book, Eisenhower evolves from a political general to a ruthless commander-in-chief. Soldiers and officers gained \\"combat experience in five variants of Euro-Mediterranean warfare: expeditionary, amphibious, mountain, desert and urban. Troops had learned the importance of terrain, of combined arms, of aggressive patrolling, of stealth, of massed armor. They now knew what it was like to be bombed, shelled, and machine gunned, and to fight on.\\" As important, to American soldiers the North African campaign made the war \\"'a grudge fight, a personal matter.'\\"<BR>The Allies learned from the beginning. The execution of the landings on North African beaches reflected their amphibious inexperience. Had they been opposed at the beaches by a determined enemy instead of the Vichy French -- if they had landed first in France, as once contemplated -- the result would have been catastrophic. The result in North Africa was not inevitable: mistakes were made. For the experience gained, the Allies paid a fee in blood.<BR>The author gives account of the participants from top to bottom (selective, of course) -- from FDR and Churchill to soldiers in the field. The writing is engaging and the maps are helpful. This book is recommended.	2002-12-15
US	50891691	R2MQXHR1KRFGI2	0375420827	766895282	The Art of Travel	Books	5	118	121	N	N	A must-read for the traveller	In his chapter called &quot;On Eye-opening Art&quot;, Alain de Botton describes his lukewarm initial reaction to the much-extolled Provence, France.  Then, in a sleepless first night there, he happened to read chapters in a book about Vincent Van Gogh that focussed on Van Gogh's Arles period.  Van Gogh's art opened de Botton's eyes to the beauty of the landscape, because he started to see it as that great artist had.  I mention this detail in particular because what Van Gough did for de Botton, de Botton does for the reader.  &quot;The Art of Travel&quot; introduces the reader to an attitude toward and practice of travel that allows him or her to enjoy it more fully.  de Botton's suggestions and observations are surprising, of the &quot;Huh, I never thought about that&quot; variety.<BR>de Botton is well read, and he draws upon his knowledge of artists, philosophers, naturalists and poets, combined with first-person narrative, to illuminate his points.  If you take the author's suggestions to heart, wherever you go -- across the globe or in your own neighborhood -- you will immerse yourself in your wanderings to a greater and more satisfying degree.<BR>Having said that, I should add that this book is not just a means to an end.  The journey itself is enjoyable.  de Botton's writing is as engaging as his philosophy is attractive.	2002-09-03
US	50891691	ROGQQQQ7XZ056	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	4	55	59	N	N	A born warrior	A juvenile delinquent, Hackworth, flees from his confinement and joins the Merchant Marine.  Later, he pays off a wino to sign a fraudulent affidavit, as Hackworth's \\"father\\" (he was an orphan), that allows him to enter the Army at the age of fifteen.  This is the beginning of this book, which ends with this man, now a Colonel, venting condemnation of America's tactics in Vietnam in the press, and his subsequent persecution by Army investigators, in a harrowing, white-knuckle ending.<BR>A man is lucky to find his calling, and Hackworth was born to be a warrior.  In a way, this book is an inspiration.  It makes one want to be as good in one's profession as Hackworth was in his.  And no matter what one's occupation is, one can identify with Hackworth's frustration with and anger at the \\"perfumed princes\\" who rose to the top in the Army he knew, and whos' equivalents exist in every field of endeavor.  Don't you know people who don't give a grape-skin about the higher goals of their profession, and who live only to feed their ambition?  Reading this book is like sitting down and listening to somebody who knows the score.	2002-08-18
US	50891691	R1CIF1R5OOJPW6	0679729453	933385853	The Path to Power (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Portrait of a Complex Man	In some biographies, the subject is so charming that you read with delight. McCullough's \\"Truman\\" is an example of this, but so are Brands' \\"The First American\\" (about Benjamin Franklin) and Smith's \\"John Marshall\\". On the other hand, I couldn't finish Massie's brilliant biography, \\"Peter the Great\\". The subject's cruelty was so manifest that at a certain point I didn't care to know more about him.<BR>So, I'm a little surprised that I found \\"Path to Power\\" spellbinding. Johnson comes aross as pathetic and despicable -- even if his genius and drive also come across. Yet the book is absorbing. To explain the attractiveness of the character here portrayed, perhaps one has to reach back for comparison to the attractiveness of Shakeseare's Richard III. Both Richard and Johnson were scoundrels, but somehow the audience/reader feels both compassion and admiration for them: compassion for Richard because of his deformity, for Johnson because of his impoverished childhood and deep-seated insecurities; and admiration for their genius.<BR>Johnson invariably proved himself to be a \\"go-to\\" man, the operator who could get things done that nobody else could, even if they were ostensibly more powerful than he was. Caro writes of the terribly harsh, mediaeval circumstances of rural Texas farm families in the Hill Country before electrification. That makes you all the more impressed by Johnson's surprisingly effective struggle as a young Congressman to bring electricity to these families through a government program when, on paper, they weren't remotely eligible for it. This episode is an example of Johnson' more than world-class virtuosity in accumulating political power and his benevolent, if politically self-serving, use of it.<BR>This book has interesting side-biographies of persons who intersected Johnson's life -- from House Speaker Sam Rayburn, to Alice Glass (Johnson's lover and the consort of a powerful newpaper publisher), to W. Lee \\"Pappy\\" O'Daniel (who defeated Johnson inhis first Senatorial election campaign).<BR>This book discusses Johnson's family history and childhood, his college years, his tenure as a teacher, Congressional secretary and New Deal NYA director in Texas, his early Congressional years and his first Senate campaign.	2002-05-24
US	50891691	R1MCTF97RJA1U7	0385720815	668307520	On Bullfighting	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A worthy addition bullfighting lore	The author does not pretend to be an expert on bullfighting. She undertook this book because it was offered to her. The result is not so much an explication of the sport but a meditation on it. She considers, among other things, why do matadors risk death when most professional sportsmen risk only defeat? The author roughly compares her own encounter with suicide with the risk that professional bullfighters take in the ring.<BR>This is an informed meditation on bullfighting. The author has done her homework. For a good introduction to the art, I would recommend Death in the Afternoon by Hemingway. It as an informed, literary intoduction to bullfighting with diversions into war, death and art. But this book is a good supplement. Unlike Hemingway, A.L. Kennedy describes the course of actual bullfights she has seen. Her meditations are engaging. On Bullfighting doesn't take long to read, but the curious would-be afficionado will value it.	2002-04-13
US	50891691	R3VOR7EFVSPX4D	0684801450	673130510	Death in the Afternoon	Books	4	15	16	N	N	magnificent	Hemingway loved bullfighting.  And Spain.  His affection for these comes across in this book.  Death in the Afternoon is also infused with Hemingway's personality, which has been called his greatest artistic creation, and that makes this book especially personal and interesting.<BR>This is a great book to read on a flight to Spain, particularly if you plan to see a bullfight.  With your newly-minted expertise in bullfighting, you'll apreciate the pageant much more.<BR>But Death in the afternoon is not just about bullfighting.  Hemingway discusses such topics as death, often death, war, writing, art (a comparison of the painters Goya, Velasquez and El Greco), love and Faulkner.  This book is more than a guide to bullfighting -- it is good literature.	2002-04-05
US	50891691	R145RQPEJM54MS	0375757546	635168116	The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey in the Hadhramaut (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	a woman adept at cross-cultural encounters	As a Christian worker in China, I had first-hand opportunity to see how we \\"foreigners\\" interacted cross-culturally. (Usually, the most successful of us were those who were not on a Mission from God.) Having seen people badly suited to live abroad and admiring those who were very able to do so, the joy of this book by Freya Stark was reading about a woman operating cross-culturally with a world-class ability to encounter persons with a much different backround than her own. Her sheer delight in her Bedouin companions is vicariously enjoyable.<BR>Of course, this book journeys not just across cultures but across times, beginning with the author's introduction, which discusses the antiquity of the regioun she explores, especially in the time of great trade in frankincense, which made the region, for a time, wealthy. It is also reflected in the ancient culture and historical monuments and artifacts the author encounters.<BR>Moreover, Freya Stark writes (wrote) beautifully. This book will appeal to anyone who is curious about other peoples, other lands and other times or who enjoys good writing.	2002-02-03
US	50891691	R2YQADSSQDRQ7A	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	0	2	N	N	magnificent	Courageous, moral, humorous, companionable, driven, brilliant, eloquent, well-read, loving, aggressive, child-like, far-sighted, impulsive, un-stoppable and all-too-fallible -- that's how Theodore Roosevelt comes across in this biography of his Presidential years. One yearns for his like to return to the public stage, and one cannot help measuring recent occupants of the White House by the persona one encounters in this book. If you arent't excited about Theodore Rooseveldt by the end of this book (notwithstanding his ironic mistreatment of black soldiers in the Brownsville controversy), well, reread it.	2002-01-07
US	50891691	R35QDQ5WAGY1V3	0671315927	803106463	Spanish I - 1st Ed. Rev. (Pimsleur Language Program)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	great leg up in Spanish	I am mediocre in language learning ability and perseverence. Therefore, I must pay tribute to these tapes to keeping me learning and giving me a level of competence in Spanish. I won't say this is an &quot;easy&quot; course. I have to listen to the tapes many times to digest their lessons. Fine. So I take a long time. But the tapes are interesting enough to keep me going, and, now, when I encounter a baffled looking Spanish speaker in my building (we have lawyers there who cater to <BR>Spanish speakers), I can communicate with them and help them. I listen to these tapes in my car. If I had been listening to talk radio, I would be unimproved in any aspect of my life. But now, I can communicate in Spanish. I am about to start the second program of this three part series, and I am looking foreward to it. These tapes will help anybody who is serious about adding a new language to their store of knowledge.	2002-01-05
US	50891691	R13XY0WSME8ZC8	0375756787	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The rise of one of America's most original Presidents	It is easy to grow enthusiastic about Theodore Roosevelt from this book.<BR>TR evolves before the reader's eyes from a puny, sickly, much beloved child to a tough outdoorsman in the Dakota country, admired for his vigor by the denizens of that wild outpost, to a President (by the providence of McKinley's assasination). <BR>This book discusses TR's formative years. It chronicles his childhood, and his warm relationship with his well-drawn father is endearing. It discusses his Harvard years, where he was considered quite the character. It discusses his longing courtship and mairrage to his first wife, who died young, and it discusses his profound bereavement at her death. It describes his rough-and-tumble years as a ranch owner in the Dakota country: a financially dismal episode that was morally formative. His rise to the White House -- from precocious State Assemblyman to controversial Federal Service Commissioner to energetic but frustrated New York Police Commissioner to Assistant Secretary of the Navy to Rough Rider (for which he gave up his assistant secretariship of the Navy) to Governor of New York (a job he loved) to Vice President (a job he did not want) to President -- his influence, successes, defeats, and vitality in all of these positions are carefully and interestingly described.  Nor does the author fail to pause to allow the reader to admire TR's dilightful and loving family life and warm friendships.<BR>TR comes across as fortunate in his birth to wealth, in his temperment, in his parents, in his natural intelligence, and even in the physical disability that taught him to overcome obstacles. But one is conscious that others might have squandered natural gifts such as his, or yielded to disabilities that were also his.  TR comes across as a fighter.  Morris gives an in-depth understanding of the rise of one of America's most original and dynamic Presidents and personalities.	2002-01-01
US	50891691	R1KOYAXJGCQCJG	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	27	28	N	N	a fine biography	This is a particularly fine, readable, and interesting biography of a man who was in the thick of the American revolutionary war's political and diplomatic struggles. Because Franklin was the oldest significant figure in the American revolutionary war, the story of his life gives a depth of understanding to the events that led up to that conflict and to the condictions in America, at least in Philidelphia, up to that point.  Moreover, Franklin comes across as most charming, and that makes this biography a delight. <BR>The First American is a good companion volumn to McCullough's John Adams. They naturally intersect, but they do not repeat each other. And while Franklin gets somewhat short shrift in McCullough's book, John Adams is similarly treated here. (The authors write from the perspective of their respective subjects, who evidently disliked each other.) Both books taken together provide a balanced history of these two great men. Not to say that one has to read John Adams to appreciate The First American: this book stands on its own.<BR>I enjoyed Brands' book on Theodore Rooseveldt, but given the different natures of the two subjects, and the different times, these are very different books. If one word characterizes TR, it is &quot;will&quot; (or perhaps &quot;action&quot;). If one word characterizes Franklin, it is &quot;wisdom&quot;. You may surmise therefrom which book will be better company for you. <BR>Another special thing about this book is the selection of quotations from Franklin's writings, including his letters. These passages are worth reading and re-reading for the elegance and grandeur of his language.	2001-09-18
US	50891691	R3RO8S16NQEM1L	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	4	6	10	N	N	a chronical of horror	My generation was late even for the Vietnam war. So when we want to understnd war, we ar indebted to authors such as E.B. Sledge, who describe in vivid detail what it was like to live through the &quot;meat grinder&quot; of battle. It is too much to say I envy the soldiers who fought in the battles of Peleliu and Okinawa, described in this book. The author's descrition is too true-to-life to admit such a comment. But it is not too much to say that one comes to admire the sacrifice and courage of men who fought these battles. Mr. Sledge's book is a great gift to those who never have had to put their lives on the line for thier country -- it informs and humbles us. I expect this book is also a great gift to those who have endured the crucible of battle -- it articulates their common experience.	2001-09-10
US	50891691	R1IK10TLHH0VRT	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a chronical of horror	My generation was late even for the Vietnam war. So when we want to understnd war, we ar indebted to authors such as E.B. Sledge, who describe in vivid detail what it was like to live through the &quot;meat grinder&quot; of battle. It is too much to say I envy the soldiers who fought in the battles of Peleliu and Okinawa, described in this book. The author's descrition is too true-to-life to admit such a comment. But it is not too much to say that one comes to admire the sacrifice and courage of men who fought these battles. Mr. Sledge's book is a great gift to those who never have had to put their lives on the line for thier country -- it informs and humbles us. I expect this book is also a great gift to those who have endured the crucible of battle -- it articulates their common experience.	2001-09-10
US	50891691	R2LFABV02FSXTP	0684871335	955311655	Fire on the Waters : A Novel of the Civil War at Sea	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good historical novel	I sometimes think that David Poyer is a well-kept secret of a growing cadre of devotees. In my opinion, his best work so far is Thunder on the Mountain. It is an historical novel of the Depression era, describing a wild-cat strike at an oil refinery in Pennsylvania. This book succeeds brilliantly in the same way: it evokes an era. Mr. Poyer has done his homework, and many threads of the Civil War era are articulated in this book, particularly the confidence of Northerners at the outset of the Civil War that the rebellion of the Southern states would promptly be put down, which was the prevailing opinion at the time, as strange as that may seem to us who know how cataclysmic that struggle turned out to be. I admire Mr. Poyer's novels of the modern Navy. But here he goes beyond his characteristic acumen in developing characters, as his protagonist wrestles with the elemental struggle of liberating himself from dependence on his wealthy father, through the epiphany of horrendous loss of life in warfare. As always, the dialogue sparkles. This is a worthy book, and I share other reviewers' eagerness for the publication of further works in this trilogy.	2001-08-25
US	50891691	R2X6Q0KHXQHQPH	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Important	A story of war is a canvas for the depiction of human qualities and capabilities. The stakes are not just victory or defeat but life or death. Also, most of the persons involved don't want to be there -- at least that was true as to the average American serviceman in Vietnam. A war-story about Vietnam, then, is a story with very high stakes told about people who usually didn't want to be there and about what they did in a deadly confrontation. This is a subject of inherent drama and worth.<br />We Were Soldiers Once is written by the American field commander in the battle of Ia Drang. The author extensively quotes servicemen who fought in that battle, and their remembrances are vital to this book. At times the book is quite moving, as when the author visits the grave of one of his officers who died in the battle of Ia Drang. At other times, it depicts awesome courage and resourcefulness.<BR>Vietnam was a tragedy. Because of the ultimate futility of it and its exorbitant human cost to both America and Vietnam, it's a shame it happened at all. However, it happened, and Americans who fought and sometimes died in that war deserve to have their stories told.  This book tells a piece of the overall story and tells it well.	2001-07-15
US	50891691	R4LS7L5U974J5	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An inspired book	Reading David McCullough's book on obscure John Adams is like walking in a garden with an expert horticulturalist who causes you to pause beside a rose bush you would otherwise overlook, to discover it among the most magnificant in the garden.	2001-06-30
US	50891691	R22P6E8Q8YF94T	0670892920	665614535	Treason by the Book	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Intriquing history	It's hard to pinpoint exactly why this book is so arresting.  Maybe it's because Mr. Spence takes the historical records from the period of the third Qing emperor of China and crafts lucid characters from them, whom we can relate to in their struggles to deal with unexpected and unwelcome situations -- we can relate to them as persons.  Maybe it's the cycle of mystery and revelation that pervades the book, as the author follows only a few steps behind the imperial investigators who track down the author of a treasonous letter or the mysterious, so-called &quot;Wang Shu&quot;, who ws the ultimate source of much of the letter's content.  Maybe it's the inherent foreigness of the world the book describes -- far different from ours, with its First Amendment freedoms; in the world Spence describes, spreading critical rumors about the government can lead to any number of punishments, including being sliced to death.  Maybe it's the sense of seeing an emporor do what none had done before him: enter into dialogue with a traitor and publish a book based on that correspondence.  Maybe it's the sense of seeing how government worked in China almost three centuries ago -- I think you'll be surprised.  Whatever the reason, this book is a good read.	2001-06-09
US	50891691	R3UGPIFKXSGOLA	067972074X	131773811	Emperor of China: Self-Portrait of K'ang-Hsi	Books	5	31	34	N	N	It's good to read a non-Western history for a change	In this book, Jonathan Spence has assembled a narrative montage from the fragmentary surviving writings of the ruler of a great nation who lived three hundred years ago and half a world away.  In so doing, Spence has crafted a work that reads seamlessly as if it were Emperor K'ang Hsi's own memoirs.  Knowing as we do that even democracies frequently fail to produce leaders equal to the task of governance, one is pleasantly amazed when a hereditary ruler proves more than able wisely to govern in an enlightened fashion.  In fact, in some ways the emperor comes across as very modern, so that the chapter entitled &quot;Sons&quot;, with it's strong supernatural component, strikes one as all the more disturbing -- like finding a skull while perusing beloved family heirlooms.  I say this without intended condescension, because the events described in that chapter would be accepted matter-of-factly in many American Christian churches, particularly those with fundamentalist or charismatic leanings.  I don't pretend to bring any deep historical/philosophical erudition to my consideration of this book, but I think that any book that illuminates the life of a great man is worth reading, and if he has qualities of wisdom and humility, so much the better, and if he lived in a time and place that I had little fore-knowledge of, the book is twice worthy.  I highly recommend &quot;Emperor of China&quot;.	2001-06-04
US	50891691	R19S6P7WE2SCIL	0671456547	680068737	Truman	Books	5	92	102	N	N	The biography of an authentic American	I am a great fan of biographies of great men.  This is the first time I have ached to spend time in the company of the subject of a biography.  There is something about Harry Truman --underestimated, shrewd, fallible, magnificent, decent and straight-taliking -- that comes across in this biography.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-06-02
US	50891691	R2SN5PGNFAXUYR	0679725806	983562153	The Question of Hu	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Good Tale Well Told	If you enjoyed &quot;The Professor and the Madman&quot;, this book might just be your cup of tea.  In both books, the central character becomes schizophrenic.  In &quot;The Professor and the Madman&quot;, he's an American officer in London.  In &quot;The Question of Hu&quot;, he's an assistant to a Jesuit scholar in France.  This is a comparatively thin book, but it contains many threads: infighting among Jesuits, the Catholic missionary strategy in China in the 18th century, culture shock, treatment of the mentally ill, fidelity, circumstances in 18th century Paris and Canton, and careerism, among others.  This is an engaging story well told.	2001-05-20
US	50891691	RJ4Z0WOKCKR8T	0471180718	539891211	The Last Great Frenchman: A Life of General De Gaulle	Books	4	22	23	N	N	An apt title	Is it possible to love your county too much?  If your love of country leads you to break with most of the political leaders of your day and flee to a foreign shore to resist the creators of the Holocaust, the answer is no.  If it leads you to snub leaders of the countries that liberated your captive nation -- with the consequent political fall-out -- the answer may be different.  The public de Gaulle emerges from these pages as fiercely patriotic, complex, shrewd and obstinate, even as he appears sensitive and introspective in private, and France was better for his birth.      In every good drama, the protagonist undergoes a change.  This biography is like a good drama.  I won't reveal the personal crisis and other events which, according to the author, enlarged de Gaulle between World War II and his return to power in the 50s, but I will say it makes thoughtful reading.  This biography also discusses de Gaule's ten year reign in France as President.  Particularly interesting is his cultivation of third world countries in pursuit of French influence in the World.  His fall from power is also described.  Biographies tend to be bitter-sweet, ending as they do in decline and death.  This biography is like that.  Yet de Gaulle remained de Gaulle to the end.	2001-05-19
US	50891691	R3R1TGBAXWATHR	0316545031	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory 1874-1932	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great book	Churchill, in his own memoirs, wouldn't tell you that he loved hot baths so much he would do sommersaults in the tub; or that he watched movies at home with his little dog on his lap and covered her eyes during the scary parts; or that he cried at the end of a sentimental movie about a boy saving his beloved donkey.  This book -- actually both book of this unfinished trilogy -- portray the human side of the man who's powerful will marshalled a prostrate England to its succesful, life-or-death defense against Hitler.  It also imparts the greatness of this amazing man -- his toughness, his brilliance, his eloquence.  Reader's of Churchill's fine memoirs of the Second World War will enjoy, I think, seeing his pluck and ingenuity exhibited in his early life, in this book. Churchill suffered defeats, but never was defeated, and this quality shows in this book.  Like other reviewers, I look foreward to the third instalment of Manchester's biography of Churchill.	2001-05-13
US	50891691	R1M7535Y8M5EN0	0375752285	315326841	Personal Memoirs: Ulysses S. Grant (Modern Library War)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A book valuable to contemplate	Civl War afficianados will be fascinated by Grant's detailed discussion of battles.  The general reader will find value in the discovery of General Grant's personality.  He doesn't boast of his attributes, but the fact that he succeeded as commander of the army of the Patomac where others dithered and failed -- even unusually able and intelligent men -- must make one wonder why, and the answer is revealed in the pages of this book.  His discussion of the qualities of various generals is also valuable.  Those of us who occupy competative professions will necessarilly find useful the discussion of the qualities of perserverence and courage it takes to successfully prosecute any difficult endeavor -- whether it is a battle for national unity, a jury trial, or even a sales campaign.  Lest one think the answer is simply self-confidence, one must pause before Grant's humility and his revealed trepedation at the prospect of high command. Grant is also frank about his dread of his first military engagement of the Civil War, but he learned a valuable lesson  when his enemy, who knew he was coming, melted away before he arrived to engage him.  Grant learned that his enemy feared him as much as he feared his enemy, and this tempered his fright in future engagements.  A person can be better for reading this book and absorbing its lessons, not to say that the book is at all preachy.	2001-02-25
US	50891691	R33XY7GF89D0VK	0385496842	228406468	The Circus Fire: A True Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The story of crisis and it's aftermath	People reveal themselves in crisis.  That's what facisnates me about this book.  The first part tells of the heroism and cowardice of people caught in the circus conflagration in Hartfort, Connecticut in 1944.  By chronicalling people's immediate response to the outbreak of the fire, this book reveals a reality about people that is hidden except to the most astute observer of people in everyday life.  Dietrich Bonhoeffer said it best: usually, people can skate through life in the grey, but times come when people must choose between good and evil.  The greys become black and white, and people reveal their true selves by their choices in such times.  He was speaking about the crucible that was Germany in WWII, but his observation applies equally well in miniature to people confronted with life threatening emergencies, such as the disaster that O'Nan describes in this book. But after the fire, the deaths, and the immediate tragedies, mysteries remain, and O'Nan's book talks about the aftermath of the fire, following the volunteers, doctors, nurses, survivors, investigators and others up to the millenium.  It is a fascinating read. I agree with the critics who say that narrative perspective sometimes changes rapidly in this book, and it is difficult sometime to keep track of the characters.  However, I don't think that was avoidable, and it didn't detract from my positive regard for this book.	2001-01-16
US	50891691	R1LYL9AWN58XUR	0312954506	242113847	The Passage (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another grpping Naval story from David Poyer	In The Circle, Poyer deals with corruption on a naval vessel, as his protagonist, then-ensign Lenson, confronts the difference between what he learned at the Naval Academy and the real Navy.  The Med explores careerism.  In The Passage, Poyer treats, inter alia, homosexuality in the military, and his treatment of this subject is as nuanced as his always-realistic characters, and also satisfying.  As always, Poyer's descriptions are vivid and involving.  I have always enjoy Poyer's books, but sometimes his endings haven't risen to the level of the body of his works--a small quibble for such good writing.  Yet The Passage has a very tense, gripping resolution.  I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-26
US	50891691	R12ITM35GODB57	0312927223	378553462	The Med (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Authentic characters	I'm not surprised that Poyer's sea novels are required reading in the U.S. Naval Academy's Literature of the Sea course.  Although I myself am not ex-navy, its easy to see that Poyer's sea noverls -- and certainly The Med -- realistically depict the difficult choices that a Naval officer can find himself making.  The Med forces its protagonist, Lt. (j.g.) Lenson, to choose between what's right and what will advance his career -- between Annapolis installed blind obedience and the higher good.  <br />The characters are well drawn.  They are definately not the one-dimensional cartoons found in most military-based novels and movies.  Even the &quot;villains&quot; are complex and plausible.  They are people you've met and known.  Their failings and virtues are amplified by the hugely stressful circumstances they are placed in and the high stakes of the action.<br />There is less jargon in The Med than in The Circle.....  In giving The Med four stars I am saying  Poyer wrote a truly excellent novel.	2000-11-23
US	50891691	RWERVSK1CGQR8	0812540042	611481287	Thunder on the Mountain: A Novel of 1936 (Hemlock County)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A realistic, dramatic book	I think an author has done his job when I want to enter the pages of his novel and talk to his characters.  That's a testament to the complexity and realism of the personas you meet in this book, and to the vividness and high stakes of the struggles they face.  Aside from that, no writer I know has a keener eye than Mr. Poyer for details that create verisimilitude.  I was not alive in 1936, I have never been to Pennsylvania, never been to an oil field or oil refinery, and never participated in a hard-fought wildcat strike.  But after reading this book I felt like I had been there.	2000-11-19
US	50891691	R25WYFEJF781ZO	0312929641	868100610	The Circle: He Pledged To Serve With Duty And Honor. Instead He Fought Betrayal On A Ship Bound For Danger. (Dan Lenson Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Authentic, character driven	I'm not an ex-Navy man, so the constant Navy jargon left me sometimes only vaguely understanding what was going on.  Nevertheless, I had the sense that this was what I would really experience if I were hidden, watching action from the back of the bridge of a Navy destroyer, and I valued that authenticity.  But the setting was only a pallate for what was the deeper part of the book: men striving with tremendous stress and moral dilemmas. How do they cope, what do they think and do?  Mr. Poyer is a keen explicator of human nature.  After reading this novel, you'll feel as you had been there and struggled as the characters struggled.	2000-11-19
US	50891691	R1FNYE46EGREK8	0764103334	10285760	Spanish for Reading: A Self-Instructional Course	Books	4	159	163	N	N	A good way to start learning Spanish	Reading is not a bad way to learn a romance language like Spanish.  You can start by reading this book.  Then you can hammer down what you've  learned and build your vocabulary by reading Spanish-language books.   (Amazon has numerous dual-language Spanish/English books.)  Then you can go  to Mexico to get practice speaking and listening.<br />The authors give  thoughtful advice about how to use this book.  Included in that advice is  the recomendation that you spend eighty to one-hundred twenty hours  mastering its contents.  This advice proved useful to me.  I was growing  frustrated at one point.  Then I reviewed my log of hours spent learning,  and I discovered I was going way too fast.  So I slowed down, reviewed  carefully, and then I proceeded at a more realistic pace. <br />One thing.  On  page 109 there are two columns labeled &quot;Indirect object&quot; and  &quot;Direct object&quot;.  These labels are reversed.  You'd be able to  figure that out on your own, but now you don't have to.  (You're  welcome.)<br />As a companion to this text, I used &quot;Practice Makes  Perfect: Spanish Verb Tenses.&quot;  Sometimes I needed a different  perpective to understand a particular grammatical point.  These two books  articulate well.  One gives you thoughtful, sophisticated readings and  invites you to translate them into English; the other gives you English  passages and invites you to translate them into Spanish.  Practice makes  Perfect goes into more detail on what it covers, but Spanish for Reading  covers all the fundamental parts of speach, not just verbs (although of  course verbs are eighty to eighty-five percent of learing Spanish).<br />For  your eighty-to-one-hundred-twenty hours you get all the fundamental parts  of speach for Spanish, plus about two thousand vocabulary words. The book  contains numerous useful and interesting exercises.  With the aid of a  dictionary, you will be able to read right away after learning this book.   When you have builtup your vocabulary, you can throw away the dictionary.	2000-08-16
US	50891691	R36SJY865ARKK5	0631201009	60383418	The Germans and the Final Solution: Public Opinion Under Nazism	Books	4	13	13	N	N	an excellent analysis of German public opinion	Bankier has written a trustworthy book about German responses to Nazi antisemitism and propaganda, and the effect of public opinion on the German leadership during World War II.  Many books discuss the psychology of  persecution in Nazi Germany.  Two good ones are Sereny's Into That Darkness  and Brown's Ordinary Men.  The particular strength of Bankier's book is its  breadth of sources.  The author draws on, among other sources, regional  Gestapo reports, Allied Intelligence Reports and contemporanious  observations in letters and diaries. Another strength is its analysis.   Bankier certainly holds the Germans accountable. His analysis is profound  but it may surprise you by shaking your pre-conceived beliefs.  I was  especially impressed by his discussion of the wide-spread knowledge in  Germany of the &quot;final solution&quot;, and Bankier's fascinating  analysis of the public reaction to this knowledge.	2000-03-28
