US	50895747	R1FJTQAC4FWEUK	0345447409	149850483	Until Dark	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Enjoyable Enough	SUMMARY: FBI composite artist Kendra Smith channels her painful past and uses her extraordinary talent to create sketches of criminals so stunningly realistic that her sketches have led to the capture of some of the country's most violent offenders.  Her former flame, Agent Adam Stark, has recruited Kendra to sift through varying accounts and come up with a composite of the Soccer Mom Strangler, a vicious serial killer who targets blond, blue-eyed \\"super moms.\\"  Kendra's sketches reflect the physical changes the killer undergoes to hide her identity, but as the body count rises, it becomes clear that he has now fixated on Kendra.  His motive, however, is unclear: is he fascinated with her because she's only one step behind him, or is his interest more sinister, related to Kendra's painful past? <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: Stewart has a knack for developing strong, balanced, and interesting heroines, and Kendra Smith is no exception.  She's imminently likable, and it's impossible not to root for her. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: Despite able actions sequences and some interesting twists, it is apparent very early on who the perpetrator is and why he's targeting Kendra. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: Lite on the suspense, but heavy on character, this frothy brew is great for whiling away a few hours on a rainy day. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R37H6NVOM7QVN0	0525948376	772779307	The Wendy Williams Experience	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A Wonderful Mess	SUMMARY: Outrageous radio personality Wendy Williams recounts some of her more colorful interviews, as well as offering her opinions on hip-hop celebrities and their baby mamas, in this witty and raucously funny tell-all/semi-autobiography. <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: Think of Williams as the ghetto fabulous female equivalent of Howard Stern: she asks the questions you really want the answers to, and nothing is sacred.  She's utterly fearless and tactless.  The section on Baby Mamas is great, but her coinage of \\"Negroidian\\" almost made me wet myself, as did her commentary on the \\"dirty backpack clique.\\"  Good stuff. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: As refreshing as her guilelessness and lack of pretense is, it sometimes borders on obscene and can become tiring.  It's one thing to be tactless in some ridiculous situations, but to take pride in and practice it in ALL situations is annoying.  Also, she has some real juicy tidbits about some celebrities, revealing absolutely everything...but their name.  Of course it's due to legal reasons, but it is so FRUSTRATING!  Have fun guessing, though. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: It's just a heck of a book!  Quick read and very funny.  This is not going to win awards, and why another reviewer felt the need to preface their commentary by stating that this is not \\"Alice Walker or Alex Hailey\\" is beyond me.  Of course it isn't, and no one expects it to be. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R3808YD2D57RH9	0345463935	309433810	Dead Certain	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Outstanding	SUMMARY: Her stalker/assailant now safely in jail, antiquities-expert Amanda Crosby has put her life back together and, in the process, has discovered an independence heretofore unknown: she has earned her black belt in tae kwon do, publicly speaks about the necessity of stalker awareness, and even has a column in the local newspaper.  As her life is coming together, her business partner and best friend, Derek England, makes a move that could potentially destroy their antiques shop.  Angry and frustrated, Amanda makes some innocuous threats...and is later horrified when they come true.  Amanda find herself the primary suspect, but as the bodies continue to drop, it becomes apparent that Amanda herself is the real target. <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: Amanda Crosby is the most well-rounded and believable heroine of Stewart's trilogy.  She's smart, independent, and decisive, but also vulnerable and thoughtful.  Chief Sean Mercer is an admirable love interest, with his own tragic past.  Two people alone in the world, finding each other in a time of great peril...trite, but extremely effective.  Villainous Vince Giordano is also the most frightening criminal of this trilogy in that there is no real etiology ascribed to his evil; he just is evil. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: Honestly, I can't think of any real reason why you won't enjoy this novel, assuming you enjoy this genre.  The action sequences are able, as are the romance sequences.  The characters are well-written and enjoyable.  The conclusion is very satisfactory. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: The second and best installment in Stewart's trilogy.  Highly recommended. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R2QET5VLF8YJTH	0345463927	442557067	Dead Wrong	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Off to a Good Start	SUMMARY: Three criminals are locked together in a room during a riot in the courthouse.  To pass the time, they each fantasize about the three people they would most like to kill and then marvel that if one killed the other's victims, it would be almost impossible to trace.  It seemed like a harmless game, until those on one of the lists starts dying.  Child advocate Mara Douglas, haunted by the abduction of her young daughter, is one of the unwitting targets; her sister Anne Marie McCall, an FBI profiler, recruits fellow agent Aidan Shaw to protect Mara, luring him out of self-imposed exile after the death of his brother, a fellow agent and McCall's lover.  As the killer gets closer, Mara's days appear to be numbered. <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: Winning characters and able action sequences spur on this otherwise run-of-the-mill tale.  The built-in romance is bittersweet and well-written.  Mara isn't a milquetoast heroine either; she has some grit. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: The psychobabble spun around the killer's past and impetus for committing murders is banal and nothing new or exciting. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: No new ground is broken, but the novel is filled with frothy intrigue.  What is most intriguing is that each of the criminals and their list of victims is given their own novel to develop their stories.  The saga is continued in Stewart's Dead Certain and Dead Even.  Worth checking out.  I'd give it 3.5 stars if possible. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R2J6P9U2Y64BCQ	0451411374	802080305	Play Dead	Books	5	207	214	N	N	Hang on by Your Fingernails	SUMMARY: Savannah police detective Elise Sandburg has enough to deal with: a house that's falling apart, a difficult teenage daughter, and an annoying yet mysterious new partner. Suddenly, young male prostitutes start turning up dead....or somewhat dead.  The tradition of voodoo in the Deep South get a new slant as freshly buried serial victims claw their way out of their final resting places.  To catch the killer, Elise will have to delve deep into a past she relinquished a lifetime ago. <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: Frasier has a gift for immediately involving you in a story.  She writes top-notch suspense that is engrossing and addictive.  Characterizations are complete; truly surprising plot twists abound.  Frasier is a must-have addition to any mystery/suspense lover's personal library. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: If prostitution and/or voodoo turn you off, get over it and read this anyway. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: Best of genre.  Frasier just keeps getting better. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R8BVYNF2J19P2	0786006463	246250291	The Hanged Man	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Worthy Suspense Fare	SUMMARY: The novel that introduces psychic bookstore owner Mira Morales, her feisty grandmother Nadine, and precociously impish daughter Annie, The Hanged Man is the story of Fort Lauderdale floating detective Wayne Shepherd, searching for the killer of famed criminologist Andrew Steele and the disappearance of his wife Rae.  His search leads him to a tip phoned in by a reluctant Mira, whom he draws into this web of intrigue.  Also on the trail of the perpetrator is FBI big-wig Lenora Douglas, who chaired a covert operation called Delphi with the late Steele.  Solving his murder is imperative to her admonition by her superior to erase all traces of Delphi.   <br /> <br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT: If you enjoy elements of the supernatural in your novels, or are an aficionado of psychic detective fiction, you'll immensely enjoy this story.  Mira is written as a strong, brave heroine with human foibles, and her family life is as integral to the story as her unique abilities.  Shep is a rarity in the detective fiction genre - a masculine, stalwart guy who is not so entrenched in his beliefs about the system or his own ability that he is willing to disregard pertinent information, regardless if it comes from a sense other than the usual five. <br /> <br />WHY YOU WON'T: MacGregor attempts to invoke some sympathy for the killer from the reader, but it just doesn't wash.  Everyone has a sob story, and his isn't so terrible that it excuses his actions.  However, he is cleverer than most villains, and his preternatural ability is terrifying. <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: Suspenseful, action-packed, and romantic, this is a wonderful offering from a woman who always delivers compulsively readable fiction.  Highly recommended. <br />	2005-01-23
US	50895747	R31NXMSMDANAF8	0752817051	868804789	Song Of Troy (OME)	Books	3	25	29	N	N	Interesting, but Flawed	SUMMARY:  New retelling of the Trojan War notable in that in tells the story from the vantage point of all major characters.<br /><br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  McCollough has a gift for prose; the words flow seamlessly together and practically leap off the page and visual images form in your head.  McCollough picks up on a lot of themes alluded to in the Iliad, i.e. Achilles and Patroclus as lovers, and makes them explicit.  Powerful descriptions, tender love scenes, and enthralling action sequences all paced well make this a winner.  She proffers the war was fought not over Helen but for control of the Hellespont and the Black Sea, as well as Asia Minor; definitely plausible.<br /><br />WHY YOU WON'T:  As a trained classicist, I just couldn't get behind some of the characterizations in this novel, particularly that of Helen.  In the primary sources, this important character actually is given almost no voice.  The voice McCollough gives her is one of a precocious nymphomaniac transformed later into a vain, egotistical, superficial slut who willingly abandons her children because they are not as beautiful as she.  Just couldn't buy it, which is why I awarded 3 stars rather than 4.<br /><br />BOTTOM LINE:  If you love mythology and war/action sagas with a romantic undercurrent, you'll enjoy this book immensely.	2004-12-22
US	50895747	R1FU37KZ8R9UU6	0801836921	459764207	The Ancient Roman City (Ancient Society and History)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good Information Trapped in an Editor's Nightmare	The bottom line is that Stambaugh offers up a lot of information in a reasonably small volume, making it interesting and accessible.  The only fault, besides an overtly unapologetic Romanocentric view, is that his prose style is somewhat redundant and pejorative.  With each chapter he lays out the information he plans to present, and then drifts back and forth between examples.  At the end of each chapter he presents a succint and very readable summary of his findings.  That is, essentially all of the information you need is available in approximately one-tenth of the text.  Nevertheless, this is a fascinating account of the architecture and engineering of the ancient city of Rome; most interesting are his accounts of the representation of the city in the Hellenistic Era.  Recommended.	2004-05-08
US	50895747	R2DPK907ASG8ZG	0715630423	543697848	Gender and the Interpretation of Classical Myth (Classical Inter/Faces)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Essential Feminist Interpretation of Classical Myth	What is most impressive and interesting about Doherty's approach to this timeless material is that, unlike many of her contemporary feminist counterparts, she delivers a thoughtful and reasonable argument of gender interpretation of Classical myth. Integrating Jungian pscyhology, pop culture, and Structuralist and Post-Structuralist approaches, Doherty lets her scholarship and research speak for itself.  The result is a work that, in essence, is impossible to find fault with because she doesn't suggest anything that is either unsubstantiated or unreasonable.  Particular chapters such as &quot;Myth as Charter&quot; are compelling and provocative.  This is an absolute must for any classics, women's studies, or mythology student or fan.	2004-05-08
US	50895747	R1OLGZ1A8KMT98	0786014512	871443194	Make Them Cry	Books	5	17	18	N	N	O'Brien's Best to Date	SUMMARY:  The rumored haunted hall of St. Bart's at Our Lady of Sorrows Seminary in upstate Washington is the host of a peculiar, loosely-related murder-suicides.  New priest Jack Murphy teams up with the sister of one of the victims before the killer can strike again.<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  O'Brien's taut terror has never been better; this is by far the best book in what can be called a \\"series.\\"  As usual, characters are numerous, but there is more characterization in this work.  You come to know these people and care what happens to them.  Genuine twists abound and keep you guessing almost until the end.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  Anyone who has a problem with the Thorn Birds or the Catholic church in general might not appreciate this book.  Burgeoning teenage sexuality (and yes, this includes homosexuality) might turn some people off.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  O'Brien's best work, good characters, intruiging plot.  Highly recommend.	2004-01-18
US	50895747	R3HF26R35NSP8T	0312979088	945953471	Unforgivable	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Troubling and Trite, but Still a Triumph	SUMMARY:  Katie is trapped in a secure but passionless marriage with Ben, the local veterinarian several years her senior.  Growing up poor on the outskirts of town, she was looked down upon through most of her childhood and is virtually ignored as an adult.  Silas, a mysterious and odd friend from Katie's childhood, returns to town just a series of baffling and vicious murders ravage the surrounding area.  Silas has an emotional, psychic connection with the killer and realizes Katie is the final target.  Can he save her from the killer and/or save her from himself?    WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  Wainscott is a terrific writer who creates memorable characters and has a real knack for bringing this small town saga to life.    WHY YOU WON'T:  The plot is terribly predictable and all the \\"secrets\\" that this small town holds easily decipherable early on.  Katie is portrayed as the ultimate victim, sometimes maddeningly so; even when she finds her strength, she's still wimpy.  The conclusion, only marginally satisfying, leaves much to be desired.    BOTTOM LINE:  Even the parts of this you hate, you still kind of love.  Worth the time and the frustration to discover Wainscott, who has a real gift as her later, richer novels, clearly demonstrate.	2004-01-17
US	50895747	R2S231R3JZLYKR	0786012374	369675449	The Next to Die	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Implausible but Effective	SUMMARY:  Someone is murdering Hollywood celebrities who purport, or are even only loosely associated with, liberal political agendas.  The bodies are positioned to be found in such a debasing and humiliating way, that any credibility the victims may have had is shattered, and they become mere fodder for the gossip rags.  A successful actress with only tangential relationships with those slain is now being targeted.  She soon realizes that she is ensnared in a deadly game of cat-and-mouse with an ultraconservative political terrorist organzition, one with unlimited resources, and she may be powerful to stop them.<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  Taut, well-written action scenes, with a pulse-pounding, nail-biting sense of suspense throughout the work.  A plethora of interesting characters, and a genuinely terrifying premise.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  You must be willing to suspend a considerable amount of disbelief in order to fully be absorbed into the story.  While there are many unique characters, they number too many, and as a result, a depth of characterization is lacking, often rendering characters too innocuous or archetypal.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  Good fun, well-written, and maintains a level of suspense not often found in recent thrillers.  Doesn't reinvent the wheel, but is excellent for getting lost for a while.	2004-01-17
US	50895747	R1MZEVWJOEKKAI	0743422309	849579161	Until Judgment Day	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Ineffective and Capricious	SUMMARY: District Attorney Kathryn Mackay and her husband David, the local sherriff, are on the trail of a serial killer stalking the local diocese's priests.  Each time the murderer strikes, the M.O. changes, and there is no definitive link between the victims, leaving investigators to wonder if these heinous murders are the work of a group or a single person, and desperate to discover the assignation of victimology, in order to ward off the next murder.<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  Good characterization, fast pace, and crisp dialogue move this story along nicely.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  The personal issues between the married protagonists overwhelm the main focus of the work, which is the serial murders.  The topic of sexual abuse in the Catholic church, while trendy, is poorly captured and pejorative in this novel, which may leave you feeling cold.<br />SUMMARY:  I enjoyed the writer's style, and would consider reading another novel in this series, but would hope the plot is better laid out and more integrated, and definitely less predictable.	2004-01-17
US	50895747	R1E2PB4PYV4H9M	1551669323	673808067	Crimson Rain	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good, but Flawed, Effort	SUMMARY:  Wealthy, infertile couple adopts fraternal twin girls from a Minnesota orphanage.  Everything is wonderful until one Christmas Eve, one toddling twin tries to do in the other.  The bad seed is sent away, never to be heard from again, while the good twin becomes an only child.  The couple's marriage begins to disintegrate,as both spouses delve into affairs; the good twin, now in college, goes missing, after clues surface that the evil twin has returned for revenge.  Will she be rescued in time?<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  If you like stories about the dyadic relationship of twins, this will be enjoyable for you, but offers no new insight.  The suspense is kept high throughout most of the book, and there are some truly surprising and boggling moments in the narrative.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  The characterization is average, and there are no real explanations of their motives; everything seems hurried, and you don't form an interest in who these people are or what becomes of them.  Some elements of the story are very predictable, and somewhat sordid.  The psychological devices employed are superficial at best and not well enough explained to justify their use.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  Predictable, but enjoyable, fluff that is a pleasant diversion on a long trip or on a rainy day.  I suggest borrowing it from the library rather than purchasing it.	2004-01-10
US	50895747	R1OKD65OB1P92R	0786014520	214950194	Watch Them Die	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Above Average Thriller	SUMMARY:  Hannah Doyle is an abused wife on the run with her four year old son, who has settled in Seattle for the time being.  Everything is going well; Hannah, a film buff, has a job at a video store which she loves, attends a film class at the local community college, and has the unconditional love of her precocious son, Guy.  Soon, Hannah becomes the object of affection for three different men, all of whom, she realizes, are following her.  While worrying that her husband has found her at last, she begins receiving videos of old movies cued to notorious murder scenes; soon, people Hannah knows, even if only tangentially, start dying in exactly the manner of the movies.  This killer has decided Hannah will be his next leading lady.  Who can she trust?<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  Wonderful characterization; you come to know and care about these characters, particularly Hannah and her son.  The action sequences are taut and well-told, and the suspense is kept at a breakneck pace.  The plot is original and terrifying.  Genuine surprises frequently abound.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  Too many chefs spoil the soup, and in this case, too many stalkers spoil the story.  It can be difficult to keep up with who is who in this novel frought with a plethora of characters.  Some plot devices are overly contrived, and seem to make the work longer than in needs to be.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  Above average thriller from a writer who knows how to tell a good, and horrifying, story.  Definitely recommend.	2004-01-10
US	50895747	R35DQNB8UWHIOW	B00009MVHZ	552239081	Coldheart Canyon: A Hollywood Ghost Story	Books	4	16	19	N	N	More Barker Brilliance	SUMMARY:  Action movie hero Todd Pickett is losing his foothold on Hollywood and the cinema masses, and undergoes plastic surgery to turn back the hands of time.  The surgery is botched, and Todd flees into hiding at an old Hollywood mansion built in the 1920s.  Beautiful but bizarre, the mansion lies in Coldheart Canyon, a crater outside Los Angeles that seems to be hidden in plain sight.  Todd soon encounters the mysterious owner of the estate, a 1920's silent movie starlet named Katya, who is neither dead nor alive.  The rich tapestry of her illustrious life is revealed, and the horrifying magic she controls begins to consume Todd, about whom rumors in the industry are running rampant. Will Todd be consumed by Katya's evil, or can he break free with the help of his chubby fan/stalker?<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  True Barker fans will love the unfolding saga of Barker's limitless imagination for beauty and evil, and Hollywood gossip mongers will be delighted by the names Barker drops, both of present and past celebrities.  The pretentiousness and emotional bankruptcy of Hollywood is clearly on display.  As usual, Barker's characterizations and painstaking mastery of detail is unsurpassed.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  Many people are put off by the length of Barker's epics, but if you hang in there you will ulitmately be rewarded.  Some passages do seem superfluous at the time they are read, but are recalled later in the narrative to advance the plot.  Prudes won't like Barker's unabashed characterization of sexuality and sensuality.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  Like Anne Rice fans, Barker's fans will celebrate every page, and at the conclusion will be unsatisfied only because the journey is over.	2004-01-10
US	50895747	R3L2QW31L4MYTJ	0451410963	733211657	Left To Die	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Generic Thriller with Great Moments	SUMMARY:  An alcoholic single mother accepts a ride home from an unknown woman after a bender at the local bar.  While gassing up at a nearby station, an intruder pops up in the back seat and highjacks the women.  Instructing them to pull off into the woods, the masked criminal ties the alcoholic to a tree, and proceeds to rape the good samaritan.  The alcoholic manages to escape before she is assaulted, and flees for her life, leaving her covictim to die.  She manages to turn her life around, joins AA, but is haunted by the guilt of leaving the other woman.  She hires a pair of local P.I.'s, each of whom have their own baggage, to search for this woman.  Stumbling on a string of similar assaults which have esclated to murders, the intrepid P.I.'s realize their new client is the only surviving witness to this madman, who is now targeting the one that got away.<br />WHY YOU'LL LIKE IT:  Good characterization and some truly suspenseful moments.<br />WHY YOU WON'T:  Adroit mystery fans will figure out the plot before even wading through the first half of the book.  The action sequences are too-drawn out and contrived.<br />BOTTOM LINE:  Good fluff for a rainy day.	2004-01-10
US	50895747	R1HWODXG14JIM1	0821776037	356925807	Whispers	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Intriguing Fluff	Perhaps what I most like about Lisa Jackson's prosaical style is that she's not desperately trying to write &quot;The Great American Novel.&quot;  Her yarns are about misguided love, heartbreaking betrayal, earth-shattering forbidden secrets, and characters that seem, regardless of their origin, akin to the reader.  I began reading Lisa Jackson with &quot;Hot Blooded,&quot; and it's sequel &quot;Cold Blooded.&quot;  I was so impressed with Jackson's ability to draw a reader into her story, I continued with &quot;The Night Before,&quot; and am eagerly awaiting &quot;The Morning After&quot; in early 2004.  While waiting, I happened across a copy of &quot;Whispers&quot; at Wal*Mart.  Jackson notes at the beginning of the tale that this is a rewritten version of a previously-released novel.  Having not read the first edition, I cannot say whether this new version is any better, but I was impressed with it nonetheless.<br />Other reviews summarize the story for you, so I won't waste your time or mine repeating it. If you've read other reviews, you know the novel is told from the point-of-view of Claire Holland, a recently-divorced single mother who has recently returned to her hometown in Oregon at the behest of her battle-ax of a father, as have her two sisters.  What is most interesting about this is that Claire is the LEAST interesting of any other character!  Perhaps it is just Jackson's keen sense of storytelling, but I found Claire's sisters to exhibit much more demonstrative, and often humorous, characteristics.  Or perhaps Jackson has fooled me in that, by allowing a bland character like Claire to relate the story, you become more captivated in what she sees.  Either way, Jackson has written a fun, frothy novel full of all the good stuff we're not supposed to like, but really do.  Great summer reading, or just great to curl up with in your favorite spot for a few hours.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-17
US	50895747	R3N1CYTBI2CDC8	0312977360	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What Can I Say?	except to not expect this to be the usual vicious and gory serial killer murder mystery.  I've actually hesitated writing this review for a while now, simply because I cannot decide just exactly what this book is.  It's a murder mystery, a horror novel, or a social dissertation of crumbling societal values.  This is not an easy book to read, and no action really begins until you're halfway through.  The novel is named after three girls who are kidnapped and presumed dead, but this is really a secondary story.  The real story is the town of Aurelias, a sleepy hamlet in upstate New York, believed by its citizenry to be exempt from tragedy or outside interference.  Soon the town is rocked by the disappearances, and conspiracy theories and persecutions of seemingly innocent townspeople.    What's most intriguing is that Dobyns has assembled a story that reads as some kind of perverted version of \\"Our Town.\\"  The characterizations are achingly complete.  Whether you want to or not, you know these people, and what's worse is that you know people like them.  You may even recognize yourself a little (or a lot) in some characters, or an amalgam thereof. Even the narrator, who is incidentally never given a name; their gender is not even clearly identified until halfway through the book.  This book is really about the ramifications that a tragedy can cause in a town.  Not just for the victims' families, but for the police, local government, school faculties, neighbors, and clients.  When a town is so small that everyone knows each other, imagine the devastation caused when peoples' most innermost secrets are put on public display?  People are taking sides left and right, vigilante lynching mobs are formed, hysteria ensues, and an entire community is destroyed.  I can't say whether or not you'll enjoy the book.  You will, however, be thinking about its message for weeks afterward.	2002-12-06
US	50895747	R38E0UUBRI9QFK	0451197038	129657749	Manner of Death (Alan Gregory)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Continuing the Trend	Clinical psychologist-cum-sleuth Dr. Alan Gregory returns, this time facing a nameless, faceless entity who is stalking him.  Why?  No one really knows, but all of the fellow clinicians and physicians Gregory trained with are dead...except one.  And she happens to be his ex-lover, whom Gregory's wife, ADA Lauren, knows nothing about.  Along for the ride again is prickly detective Sam and a pair of ex-FBI agents who are the only ones who believe the stalker is real.  But how do you pursue a criminal whose identity remains shrouded in mystery?  One who changes his M.O. so frequently, a pattern cannot be established. One thing is certain, however.  His vicious cycle of murder is rapidly increasing.<br />Full of great action sequences and thoughtful musings, this novel perpetuates White as one of the great psychological/medical thrill writers of the past 10 years.  Not to be missed!	2002-12-06
US	50895747	R3GDJX5IMEYIAX	0451191706	544693269	Critical Conditions: An Alan Gregory Thriller	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Engaging Pageturner	It's impossible to begin this novel and not devour its entirety in one sitting.  It's THAT good.  White's hero, psychologist Alan Gregory is beseeched by his urologist friend and colleage, Adrienne, to begin treatment with a recently-admitted 15 year old who attempted suicide.  Soon, it becomes clear that the victim is embroiled in the recent murder of a universally-despised physician who chaired a regional health care company.  Did she do it?  If so, why?  It's not the resaon you'll think upon the introduction.<br />Fast-paced and sparkling with interesting characters and dialogue, this is a thriller not to be missed. So many plot twists, you'll be boggled how they all interconnect, but rest assured White weaves them seemlessly.	2002-12-06
US	50895747	R131EC1FDBUSPH	0786013133	427953114	Life Blood	Books	2	25	26	N	N	What is this?!?	I can't decide whether this novel is inventive or just ridiculous.  Documentary-maker Morgan James is 38 years old, enjoys tenuous employment, has relatively no family, has recently broken up with the first man she has truly loved in decades, and is desperate to have a baby.  Oh, yeah, and she just happens to be infertile despite no medical cause.  That's perhaps the most believable part of this novel.<br />Morgan is written as too much of a martyr, but does enjoy some moments of clever determination and a smart (and funny) mouth.  Everyone else, however, is simply too one-note, which lends an unfortunate air of predictability.  Hoover manages to keep you guessing what the real secret of the novel is, but the reader will be only one step behind him.  The action sequences are able, if standard.  What I found galling was the callous treatment that infertility received.  Yes, Morgan can't conceive, and she regards adoption as a viable option, which is good.  However, it's obvious that the author didn't research his subject too closely.  All the thoughts and feelings evoked are those any Discovery Channel documentary relays.  The actual mechanics of reproductive endocrinology are only meekly addressed, and when they are, it is so horrific and base, it borders on disgusting.  Even the ending leaves you questioning what's really going on.<br />This is not a novel I'd recommend.  Too many genres, poorly-written characters and an absolutely inane plot unite in this below-average thriller.	2002-12-06
US	50895747	R190OX9HARW9A0	0312977158	67719251	Remember Your Lies	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Yarn	Angela Donahue has changed drastically in the last five years.  A shooting ended her career with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, and she has turned her life savings into a prosperous local business offering tours of historic Savannah.  Life is not complete, but it's relatively peaceful.<br />Imagine Angela's surprise when she is arrested by her former colleagues for the murder of a man she has not only never met, but never even heard of.  Upon news of her arrest, ex-lover and undercover operative Dylan Montana emerges from his rock determined to clear Angela of the charges and reclaim her heart.<br />What unfolds are the town's relatively unknown, yet notorious, drug underlife.  Angela soon discovers that someone has been impersonating her, attempting to discredit her reputation and determined to see her in prison.  But why?  Who is this person?  Anf why does she bear an uncanny resemblance to Angela?  And believe me, it's a lot more complicated than you'll think.<br />Fast-paced action, witty dialogue, historic plantation, old money, nagging parents and Voodooism all conspire to deliver a novel engaging enough to read in one sitting.  Highly recommended.	2002-12-06
US	50895747	RXBXTY01KEJZ0	0451410319	834173133	Hush	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid Debut Effort	Frasier hasn't really added anything new to the serial murderer genre, but she has managed to inject it with mutlifaceted characters and a rather chilling examination of a murderer's mind.<br />Fleeing for her life after a brutal assualt which leaves her child dead, criminal psychologist Ivy Dunlap returns to Chicago, the scene of the crime, with a new identity to finally put a stop to the madman who changed her life forever almost twenty years ago.  Aiding her in the mission is Max Irving, a veteran homicide cop with Quantico training, who has no idea who Ivy really is and is having problems of his own with his adopted teenage son, Ethan...who looks remarkably like Ivy.  Unique to Frasier's characterization is that, at times, the protagonists aren't all that likeable.  The plot progresses in a fairly predictable fashion, with some genuinely surprising twists, to a satisfying denouement, which leaves some red herrings as exactly that.<br />So basically, you have a very suspenseful, if mildly predictable thriller, with characters who surprise you, a killer who truly is diabolical, and some plot twists that will actually take your breath away.  All in all, good fun and highly recommended.  I look forward to future offerings from this author.	2002-11-26
US	50895747	R3MI7NWNHFMFSP	1555835864	372965975	Vampire Vow: A Novel	Books	2	22	26	N	N	Intriguing but Pointless	The protagonist of this novel is a Roman officer who, when his carnal desire for a young Jesus Christ is unrequited, turns to the dark side, and becomes a vampire at the behest of an ancient Ethiopian priestess.  HUH?!?<br />I suppose the premise is interesting enough, even though it's mildly offensive.  Homosexual yearnings from and toward Jesus are nothing new, but in this novel, is presented at its most base and deplorable.  Frustrated that he can't \\"get inside\\" Jesus, the protagonist, Victor, sets off on a string of rapes and murders that eventually causes him to flee for his life.  At this point, he is turned into a vampire.  If you're looking for the sensuous and romantic vampires of Anne Rice lore, you're not going to find them here.  Victor is nothing but a two thousand year old carcass looking to punish Christians because he was forsaken by his beloved, Jesus.<br />There's no emotional investment with this character.  He is presented as one-dimensional; a rogue demon filled with anger and a sexual thirst equaled only by a penchant for violence.  While some of the scenes are erotic, there's no real passion or longing, so they just ring hollow.  While reading page after page of how Victor longs to find a lover that will satisfy and challenge him as Jesus did, one becomes more and more disillusioned that for all of his living, Victor hasn't learned much.  At the end, his situation hasn't changed, except he's left a larger pile of bodies behind.	2002-11-26
US	50895747	R2RIGO7HQUX8SR	0671027573	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Captivating	Not change-the-world writing, but definitely writing that fully commanded my attention until I knew I had to read it in one sitting.  It's impossible not to adore Jaine Bright, the plucky heroine of this novel.  She's foul-mouthed, hot-tempered, and perpetually in heat.  But she's funny, caustic, wry, and intelligent.  It's so refreshing to read about a woman who isn't terrified or can't take care of herself.  Further, Jaine is smart enough to know when she needs real help.<br />The basic story is that Jaine and three of her fellow colleagues are out for a drink after work one night, and come up with a list of attributes for their Mr. Perfect.  One of the four's loose lips separate and tell another coworker, who in turn spreads it all over the office.  Soon, it's posted on the internet and a media frenzy ensues.  It's really funny, until the group of four becomes three when a psycho concludes that the list was specifically targeting him and his shortcomings.<br />Good dialogue and a fast read.  Marriages fall apart and come together; estranged families learn what counts.  A good surprise ending concludes the tale.  Very satisfying.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	RQHKROKOZ49OZ	1555833667	865397125	Goldenboy (Alyson Classics Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Follow-Up	When Nava's hero, attorney Henry Rios, is called upon by a friend to defend a young man accused of murder, even the reader is surprised by the ensuing unfolding drama.  All the evidence supports the young man's guilt; supposedly, the youth was driven to the act by a blackmailing colleague who threatened to expose the youth's homosexuality.  That's just the tip of the iceberg.  Seemingly inocuous characters soon reveal their predatory and sinister natures.  Good.  This compiles a logical and completely plausible pool of possible suspects.<br />On the plus side, Henry falls in love (in REAL love) with a young man named Josh, who simply accepts Henry for being Henry, and goes to bat for him in every situation.  Isn't that we all want?  Regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, or orientation, it's a sweet love story played out in real time, and is not overtly sexual or pejorative.  It's just a part of their lives.<BR>First-rate storytelling, good dialogue, and an actual interest in determining who committed the crime makes this novel a worthy and compelling read.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	R2A5J7TS3YI2U6	1555836941	641084114	The Little Death: The First Henry Rios Mystery (Henry Rios Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Job	Perhaps Nava's greatest accomplishment in this novel is that he makes his main character, attorney Henry Rios, compelling and so utterly human.  We read as Henry endures personal and professional troubles and you actually root for him.  The fact that he is gay is irrelevant; Henry could be anybody.  Being gay is a part of him, but it doesn't define him, and maybe that's the best lesson anyone will take away from this novel.<br />The book does read as if it's a first novel.  Though Nava delivers an excellent characterization of Henry, other characters are not so similarly defined.  Bad guys abound in this work, and at times can be confusing.  Further, it's hard to believe that Henry would risk his professional career and personal sanity because a friend of his, albeit a new lover, was murdered.  Henry seems to have fallen in love very quickly with Hugh Paris, the object of his affection and the murder than beings to flesh out the plot.  As thoughtful and steadfast as Henry is, this seems out of character.  Maybe that's the point.  Love makes you question everything.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	R2G25GNEWZ5SYL	1575664194	369875312	Body Language (Mark Manning)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Keeps Getting Better	This installment of the popular series about gay investigative reporter Mark Manning demonstrates that a new locale and the author's improved writing skills have breathed new life into what could have become another drawn out series.  Manning has grown complacent at his job at a prestigious Chicago newspaper.  When the opportunity arises to buy a house that once belonged to his deceased uncle, Mark seizes the opportunity and returns to the town where he spent a very enjoyable visit.  He also buys the town's newspaper and becomes its publisher.  This new title rejuvenates Mark and he is all the more engaging for it.<br />Upon his return, he reconnects with his cousins Joey and Suzanne, and Suzanne's teenaged son, Thad.  Of course, the inevitable death occurs.  Surprisingly it's Suzanne, who has designated Mark as custodian for the boy.  In addition to anti-gay hate mail, he is now saddled with a seemingly homophobic and belligerent cousin.  Thad's custody is called into question by the town's local harpy (and she's quite a character).  Throw into the mix that Mark is the prime suspect in Suzanne's murder, and you have a welcomed addition to this series and a main character you can really root for.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	R2ASKWXDBU7BEI	0425184706	339927519	Rag and Bone (Henry Rios Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I Demand More!	I pray that this is truly not the end of the Henry Rios series.  If, sadly, this indeed the case, Nava offers his hero and his readers a credible ending to a phenomenal series.  After gay attorney Henry Rios suffers a heart attack, he is paid a visit by his estranged sister, Elena.  As the two recall their violent childhoods, they slowly being to rebuild the relationship that ended when they were still children.  After revealing painfuls secrets to each other, Henry is shocked when his sister reveals that she had a child while she was in college and gave her up for adoption.  Desperate and ashamed, Elena prays her daughter will attempt to contact her.<br />Well, of course she does, and does she bring a lot of baggage with her.  Vicky, Elena's daughter and Henry's niece, is fleeing an abusive marriage, a \\"colorful\\" criminal history, and is hauling her son, Angel, in tow.  Secretive, homophobic, and pious, Vicky is basically obnoxious, but evokes sympathy for her plight.  Angel is another matter. Highly intelligent and wise beyond his years, Angel is an old soul who knows more and is capable of more than anyone thinks.<br />When Vicky stands accused of murdering her husband, Elena begs Henry for help and agrees, but only for the sake of Angel.  Encouraged by new love John DeLeon, Henry goes to bat for Angel, and eventually, for Vicky too.  Except Vicky can't seem to get her story straight, and doesn't demonstrate the typical behavioral pattern of battered women.  Embittered, but desperate, Vicky accepts her uncle's help, and relinquishes temporary guardianship of Angel to him.  The more Henry learns about Vicky, the less he likes her, and the fiercer his attachment to Angel becomes.<br />Clues along the way give the reader a glimpse of what Vicky's hiding, but the finale is less than typical; that is, IT'S GOOD!.  Things are resolved, neatly and equitably, allowing the reader to part with Henry with a few tears and best wishes for the future.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	RDMIC8B6OONAW	034541389X	466482043	Flesh and Blood (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dang, I liked it.	I haven't read that much of Kellerman's work, so I really can't comment on what some past reviews find as \\"not the greatest work\\" or \\"a little unbelievable.\\"  As a former psychology student, I find it completely plausible for a therapist to be overcome by what he considers a failure on his part, someone worth saving.  And that this haunts him when he learns what she became.  I find this very credible.<br />Alex Delaware is a doctor of clinical psychology retired from practice, who consults on police cases.  Teamed his best friend, Milo Sturges, who happens to be gay, Delaware is interesting in that he retains his integrity and even a shred of optimism after witnessing L.A.'s worst.  When he crosses paths with a former patient who was abruptly taken from his care by her parents, he blames himself and wonders what more he could have done.  I find this to be very logical.  Exploring her death, Delaware that even though his time with this girl, Lauren, was short, he made a lasting impression.  She was studying psychology at the local university with plans for a doctorate.  She even referred to Delaware once as \\"the father she wished she'd had.\\"  Anyone who enters psychology for the purpose of truly helping others would take this to heart.<br />I do believe that Delaware becomes obsessed with the case, but isn't this natural?  He seeks to help this person in death, as he couldn't do in life.  He encouters lies and half-truths at every corner.  While I do think that the unmasking of the murderer is a little predictable, Kellerman does a good job of weaving a compelling yarn of probable suspects.  I would and plan to read more of this series.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	R1AMZITM3P1GQN	0312270798	628670735	Name Games: A Mark Manning Mystery (Mark Manning Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Welcome Back, Mark!	He's back and better than ever.  Now firmly ensconsed as publisher a small Wisconsin town's newspaper and as his young cousin's guardian, Mark seems more settled than in past installments, but he's still as perceptive and exciting as ever.  With long-time partner, Neil, in town as an architect overseeing the town press's plant, he's more present than ever, and it's nice to see how readily he and Thad (their ward) have formed a relationship, one that Mark's initially a little jealous of.  Neil serves as a rock for Mark and Thad.<br />The town's leading miniature proprieter has organized a combo show-and-tell and seminar, and has lured the best in the business to serve as judge.  When said judge is found dead, there is the initial shock, and annoying DA Harvey Kaiser looking for someone to convict, whatever the cost.  The prime suspect?  The town's sheriff, Doug Pierce, Mark's friend and a closeted gay man who was carrying on a torrid affair with the deceased.<br />The town's loyalties soon become divided.  Add into the mix an upcoming obscenity trial with many political consequences.  Craft has done an excellent job fleshing out these characters.  You actually understand them, their insecurities and their strengths.  He's also delivered a wide array of possible suspects and does good work making the actual villain NOT obvious.  Isn't that nice for a change?  Highly recommended.	2002-11-18
US	50895747	R38HJW8I5BFOT5	0375705759	902715319	Elementals: Stories of Fire and Ice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sumptuous Feast	As a general rule, I am not well-versed in or even greatly care for, short-fiction.  But when I came across the beautiful picture on the cover of this volume, I read the back of the jacket, explaining it's contents.  Isn't it funny when just the picture on the cover can entice you into reading something you otherwise normally would not?<br />At any rate, this book is a collection of Byatt's short stories of &quot;fire and ice,&quot; that is, extremes.  Other reviews summarize the individual stories, so I will merely state that this appears to be a collection of how people at one extreme are seduced into the lives of people at the opposite end of the spectrum.<br />The prose is lyrical, yet purposeful, and Byatt's rich narratives aptly set the scene for easy imaginings and identification with both the characters and the settings.  Perhaps what's most intriguing is that while reading about the extremes of two characters, you will find yourself placed in the middle of the road, able to identify with both.<br />Provocative and compelling.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-12
US	50895747	R1MIRKXENL11JM	0670894494	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fall Under the Spell	Simply stated, Vreeland has delivered a novel full of passion: for life, for love, for art, and for betrayal. The prose is lyrical, provocative, and moving. It opens with young Artemisia testifying in papal court during Italy's Renaissance after being raped by her father's artist friend. The betrayal of her father's friend pales in comparison with the plot set against her by her own father. To escape Rome and her sullied reputation, Artemisia enters a loveless arranged marriage with a fellow painter and moves to Florence, Italy's art center. We follow Artemisia through her tentative marriage, her celebrated birth of a child, and the success of a female artist unparalleled during her time. All of her success cannot make up for her attack, her father's ruination of her reputation, her husband's jealously, and her child's imperiousness.<br />I stayed up all night to finish the book, as I could not put it down. It sweeps you into this woman's life and passion for her art, through which she learns the powers of rage and forgiveness. Highly recommended.	2002-11-08
US	50895747	RYQ7GS5E182XI	0743204859	507881122	Virgin: Prelude to the Throne	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Bewitching	Maxwell has delivered a deftly written novel that covers Elizabeth's life during the reign of her brother, Edward VI, and illustrates how Elizabeth, even in her formative years, was full or grace, dignity, intelligence and cunning.  The portrait Maxwell paints is one of a young girl unsure of her position in the world, yet fiercely proud of her heritage.  Elizabeth is both worldly and naive, an irresistable combination.  We experience Elizabeth's first pangs of love and lust, her burgeoning friendship with Robin Dudley, and the conspiracies set against her by her own people.  A brilliant concluding novel to Maxwell's trilogy.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-08
US	50895747	R2TDSO9O4GP7Z8	0671015141	942270665	The Silent Cradle	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Predictable Fun	Cuthbert certainly isn't breaking any new ground with her debut novel, but it is certainly a quick read, with good characterization and able action sequences.  The plot is brilliant in theory, less so in its execution.  It becomes apparent all too soon who is beyond the nefarious plot of inducing expectant mothers into premature labor.<br />Admittedly, the novel is difficult to get into, and bears all the signs of a new author, but soon the plot gels and you'll be lost in its unfolding.  While the denoument is predictable, you'll hang in there with main character Dr. Rae and with Cuthbert to see the villain get their comeuppance.	2002-11-07
US	50895747	R3IESHBJ3QMOMJ	068485760X	858159018	The Queen's Bastard: A Novel	Books	3	25	27	N	N	Brilliant in Thought, Marginal in Execution	Tudor England is fascinating, and Elizabeth a worthy heroine.  Whether Elizabeth was indeed the Virgin Queen is open for debate, but almost 500 years of speculation about her supposed affair with her horseman, Robin Dudley, lends a plausible air to this novel.  Maxwell has done a deft job rendering Elizabeth as both majestic and at times ridiculous.  Reading her interactions with her court, her relatives, and her supposed lover are an exercise in devouring truly brilliant prose.  Maxwell has done well capturing Elizabeth's reign, including bits of Philip II's hatred and lust for the Virgin Queen, the troubles in the Netherlands, and the damnable Mary Queen of Scots.<br />The only false note here comes from the passages of Elizabeth's supposed son by Dudley, Arthur.  There has been exploration and speculation regarding any illegitimate children the Queen may have had, so the idea of Arthur as her son allows a suspension of disbelief.  However, the passages with Arthur as narrator are extremely dull and quite pointless.  After the first few, I skipped over them entirely, and found that they were recapped almost in their entirety in the following chapters.<br />While \\"The Queen's Bastard\\" is a great read, and the subject has a distinct air of possibility, it is too long by almost 100 pages.  Those pages from Arthur's journal are just unnecessary.  Nevertheless, I did enjoy reading this novel, and am currently reading the concluding book in Maxwell's trilogy \\"Virgin.\\"  I heartily recommend this novel, but do take it with a grain of salt.	2002-11-07
US	50895747	R2M96DSNUN0RIX	0060987529	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good Effort	I applaud Maguire's yarns that seek to lend a historical edge to popular fairy tales, and after &quot;Wicked,&quot; I was anxious to read his follow-up.  Sadly, &quot;Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister&quot; just doesn't have the spark that &quot;Wicked&quot; did.  The tale is told by Iris, one of Cinderella's stepsisters.  It's not that Iris isn't likable, but for the first 60 pages of the novel, you're reading about Iris, her family, her dreams, and none of it actually inspires you to care about the character.  Eventually, you do root for Iris and a happy ending for her, but by then, you've lost all interest in the other characters and the plot.<br />Cinderella is painted as a beautiful, if emotionally bankrupt, girl.  She finds her prince.  So what?  This is nothing new, and the retelling of it really spoils the fairy tale, whereas &quot;Wicked&quot; enhanced it.<br />This is a good effort, but too long and the characters have seemingly no depth.  The prose is languid and flowery, and the setting of a small Dutch town intriguing, but it just does not live up to its predecessor.	2002-11-06
US	50895747	R3TC3KFUTGSJJL	0449007073	853826321	Bad Medicine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bad Medicine for a Good Heroine	She's back!  And in even more glorious comedic form!  Vicky Lucci has been taken hostage by a madman in the hospital's maternity ward.  Having previously agreed to a settlement with the hospital, the gunman (who believes his wife's medically necessary hysterectomy is part of some plot to ruin his life) demands to speak with two people:  the surgeon and Vicky.  <br />Leave it to Vicky to curse out the person who's holding a gun on her head.  Why?  She's tired, forgot most of her obstetrical rotation (and is being held in conjunction with a woman in labor and her husband), has a wedding to get to, and is in heels!<br />Snappy dialogue and freely flowing prose make this installment great fun and a breeze to get through, but there's not an equal balance between work and home for Vicky in this novel than in the two previous.  What's going on with her relationship with Glenn?  Are they still together?  Has she met the kids?<br />This novel continues the trend of a great series.  I just wish it had been longer.	2002-11-06
US	50895747	R2JQMAMLBX1F9A	0684849690	231481016	The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Alas, Poor Anne...	As I am not a history buff or an Anglophile, my review is simply that of one who has a current fascination with Tudor England.  I assume you already know most of the players and the drama, or else you'd be reading some fluffy bodice-rippers.  Simply stated, this novel is a fictional account of when Elizabeth I first ascends to the throne and is given her mother's diary by a former lady-in-waiting who served the ill-fated Queen shortly before her execution.<br />As she reads the diary, Elizabeth comes to know her mother and how she thought and loved.  Always told her mother was a traitor to the crown, and knowing that her mother was much hated by what are now Elizabeth's subjects, Elizabeth reads the diary with a macrabre fascination and an emotional trepidation.<BR>The lesson she learns is to never surrender her freedom to that of a man.  This is timely, as her court is pressuring Elizabeth to marry well and soon.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, and finished it in a few hours.  The diction is somewhat annoying to one who is not well-versed in reading through all of the &quot;thou's,&quot; etc.  But it does not distract from the story itself.  The author's depiction of Anne is somewhat stilted.  She is definitely painted as a victim of men, and who's to say she wasn't?  but a more balanced account would have been much appreciated.<br />All in all, great fun and a great read for lovers of this period in history.	2002-11-06
US	50895747	R2NOML03SYSU1I	044900421X	591062395	Bad Luck (Victoria Lucci Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Have Good Luck with "Bad Luck"	Our intrepid risk manager cum sleuth Vicky Lucci is back again in this second installment of Suzanne Proulx's series.  This time around, Vicky is trying to hide her mirth at her boss, Jette's, disappearance while simultaneously searching for her.  At the same time, a big-wig hospital doctor's wife checks in for a routine brow lift, and checks out in a coma.  Inexiplicably, there seems to be no organic cause, and Vicky can find no fault with the procedure itself or the performance of her colleagues.  So, is this just an accident?  Or is it part of a nefarious plot against a wealthy doctor, his wife, and/or the hospital?  You decide.<br />Vicky is in rare form in this novel.  More sarcastic and ill-tempered than ever before, she tries to juggle her investigations with an emerging, and personally terrifying, relationship with her neighbor across the hall, Glenn.  Will Vicky put aside her longterm resolve to only involve herself with married men and take a chance on happiness with Glenn?<br />If nothing else, this book is worth the read, just to bear witness to the patently hilarious monologue Vicky delivers upon a fellow driver on the road.  She states that she has this verbal ability to dispel her anger before it leads to road rage.  It was so on-point and hysterical, I was literally laughing my way to tears.  Long live Vicky Lucci!	2002-11-06
US	50895747	R357T5ZNDA6W1Z	0449004201	952096959	Bad Blood (Victoria Lucci Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bad Blood = Good Fun	It's hard not to simply love Suzanne Proulx's lead character, Vicky Lucci (pronounced &quot;Lucky&quot;).  She's a smoking, hard-drinking, over-educated, overworked, and underpaid risk manager for her local hospital.  With dual degrees in nursing and law, Vicky is well-liked personally and loathed professionally, especially by her pack-mule of a boss, Jette.<br />While dealing with an emergent merger with an HMO, a plague of mismatched blood in the bank is bringing the hospital down.  Is it an accident?  Of course not!  Someone is tainting and switching ordered blood for that of the wrong type.  But to what end?  Revenge against the hospital by a former patient?  Is an outraged employee trying to stop the merger?  Soon, Vicky is on the trail, determined to resolve if this is a case of personal revenge or a design to effect the hospital's bottom line.<br />Vicky is a nice departure from most medical thriller series heroines.  She nicely combines the toughness of Cornwell's Dr. Kay Scarpetta and the ascerbic wit of Heron's Adele Monserrat, RN.  A wonderful new series for devoted fans of the genre!	2002-11-06
US	50895747	R1YWT1BV3QKY0Z	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Order in the Court!	I had some reservations about reading this novel, as I am not a history buff, and I could not see myself wading through over 600 pages of middle English dialogue and melodramatic prose. I am so glad I took the chance.<br />Told in the first-person narrative of Mary Boleyn, Anne's younger sister, this is a fictional aacount of a family of courtiers in Tudor England. The novel begins a little over a year after Mary (aged 13) has been married to a British nobelman. All sorts of things are happening for her. Her family is gaining power within the monarchy, she is reasonably happily married, and her older sister Anne is returning from the French court. Mary has caught the eye of Henry VIII, much to the Queen Katherine's chagrin. Pressed by her family, and in particular her sister, Mary begins an illicit affair with the king. Two children later, Henry has moved on from Mary to her sister Anne. The story then shifts to Mary's first-hand account of her sister's reign and eventual execution.<br />Make no mistake; this is definitely Mary's story. While a great deal of the novel is spent on Mary's version of what happened to Anne, there is no loss of who Mary is as a person and of what happens to her life. I highly recommend this novel as it paints a rich characterization of one of the most fascinating and tumultous periods of English history, with a plausible plot and witty dialogue. Gregory has deftly captured the ruthlessness and greed of the noble class, and paints a particularly ambitious portrait of Anne Boleyn.<br />As we read how Mary matures, we suffer with her, especially during her adolescent phase. It's difficult to discern if Mary is a worthy heroine, or a complacent whiner. Good! Just like a teenager. We see her through her first love, the births of her children, and finding true love. There's not a false notion here. For fiction, this is unparalleled. Great fun!	2002-11-04
US	50895747	RRYTZDTJIR93F	0345433084	76944403	The Syndrome : A Thriller	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Fun	The bottom line is that if you want to be swept up into a book quickly, get lost in it, and have a satisfying conclusion, this is for you.<br />A sinister Swiss clinic, neural implants, assination plots of major world leaders, psychology at its worst and frustrated lawyers all combine to lend themselves to an eeringly plausible thriller that will kinock your socks off and scare you out of your wits.<br />Once I started reading, I couldn't put it down, and stayed up all night to finish.  This is not the most well-written fiction out there, but the prose is snappy and engaging.  The characters are well drawn and the plot is, well, well-plotted.<br />I wouldn't waste your time if I really didn't enjoy this book.  Check it out for yourself.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-10-24
US	50895747	R3H5O5XI5X5LQW	1551669161	421648401	Prescribed Danger (Dr. Rhea Lynch Novels)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Worthy Sequel	In this sequel to \\"Delayed Diagnosis\\" and the second in a new line of books featuring intrepid ER physician cum sleuth Dr. Rhea Lynch, Hunter hits the mark with this fast-paced and evocative medical thriller.  A rash of hate crimes have swept Dawkins County, South Carolina, leaving behind in their wake a strange pneumonia-like virus afflicting people across race and socioeconomic lines..and with a 90% mortality rate.<br />Rhea stumbles across the epidemiological cause of the disease, but doesn't know how to treat it or how to get rid of it, other than an antibactieral cocktail she and another physician concoct.  Rhea contacts Shirley, an English transport who went to med school with Rhea and her best friend Marisa (who returns from rehab very pregnant), who now works at the CDC.  Together with Shirl, Rhea determines that the pneumonia is the result of a manmade streptococcus designed to be used in biological warfare.  But who's behind it?<br />It's wonderful to see Rhea again.  She's a smart, funny, independent, and educated woman who could be anyone's friend.  Returning also are Miss Essie and her niece Arlana, Rhea's housekeeper, albeit in a limited role.  Mark and Rhea grow closer, but could a new love for Rhea be on the horizon?  Shirl is a fabulous new character, and it looks like, thankfully, she'll be in future books.<br />The only part of the novel that is a suspension of disbelief are those responsible for infecting the town.  Frought with religious fervor and numerous governmental agencies, it's difficult to discern who actually did what and why.  This is, however, a definite must-read for fans of Hunter and medical thrillers.	2002-10-21
US	50895747	R29ILP429OV3N	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Phenomenally Provocative	The old adage \\"those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it\\" has never been more present than in Connie Willis's offering \\"Doomsday Book.\\"  Laborously researched and brilliantly plotted, the novel's main character Kirvin travels back into the Middle Ages from her existence in the not-to-distance future to study the effects of the Black Plague and Western Europe's medieval people.<br />What's truly exceptional about this is not only the effort Willis devoted to researching the past, but the thought she put into her futuristic setting.  Set in London, not too much has changed socially, but as technology advances, history repeats.  As Kirvin is exploring the past, the future is threatened by a newly-discovered plague that's - surprise! - rooted in the past.  Time-travel is not treated lightly.  Willis goes into detail about the problems it presents -- from minute calculations to effects that could result from any accidental alterations.  This thoughtful presentation allows the reader to suspend disbelief more easily and ride along Kirvin's journey.<br />Admittedly, the book is hard to get into.  Lovers of history and medicine will have an easier time, but those who like novels staunchly set in reality may have a more difficult time.  The result, however, is worth it.  This is a complex, impressive, emotional, and heartening novel.  Highly recommended to those who want to get lost in a good book.	2002-10-21
US	50895747	R129CE7OOD0L60	0312866380	819512970	The Protocol	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not as bad as the reviews	This certainly isn't the best medical thriller out there.  It lacks finesse, constancy, and at times, clarity.  It's obvious that this is Christofferson's medical thriller debut, but it does show strong promise.  The basic story is that Jennifer Rockhill, attorney, wants to avenge her husband's mysterious death.  She tracks down the doctor she holds as responsible and finds that he has started a biotech firm in Seattle.  Rockhill quits her job at a mid-size firm and crosstrains as a biotech lawyer.  She bluffs her way into a position with this doctor's financially-struggling company.  Missing scientists, supposedly non-existent labs, the CIA, human cloning and government conspiracies abound.<br />To sum up, this book is enjoyable fluff, but may leave seasoned medical thrill readers wanting more.  The plot isn't as unbelievable as people think it is.  Good use of medical terminology which isn't dumbed down for the reader's sake.  Read this before reading Christofferson's latest offering, Clinical Trial, and you'll see how much more focused and fluid her writing has become.	2002-10-02
US	50895747	R3KIH3XBU3RLNG	0425113884	912542482	Mortal Fear	Books	2	7	8	N	N	This IS the Weakest Link	This is the most disappointing Robin Cook novel I've read.  The novel's protagonist, internest Dr. Jason Howard, is a middle-aged widower who sold his practice and signed a contract with an HMO organization after his wife's death.  Unfortunately, this backstory is the most interesting part of the novel.  The premise is smart, but the plotting is inexplicably weak.  Howard is a nice, hardworking, affable doctor who contends with the plethora of daily outpatients in an HMO-owned facility.  Suddenly, a colleague invites him to dinner, says he discovered something incredibly and then dies.  The reader is then thrust into the story.  The villain is sorrily predictable.  Once you read the description of this character in the early part of the book, it's obvious that they're the evil mastermind behind Howard's colleague's demise and the strange course of events that follow.  The most interesting character in the novel is Carol Donner, an exotic dancer who had a fling with said dead colleague.  She's fascinating, but little is revealed about her and you wonder why she's there at all.<br />I've been thrilled with the Cook books I've read.  If you are too, do yourself a favor and stay away from this one.	2002-09-30
US	50895747	R3BIM88FLGC08G	038079960X	379285845	The Mermaids Singing	Books	4	22	22	N	N	I Don't Get It	I don't really understand the negative reviews posted in response to this novel.  The debut effort of Lisa Carey, \\"The Mermaids Singing\\" is a multi-generational, matrilineal saga of three very different but very similar Irish women.  The matriarch, Cliona, her daughter Grace, and her granddaughter Grainne, speak their stories to the reader in individual first-person narratives.  This can be somewhat confusing, especially as Grace passes away quite early in the novel, but this confessional style is intriguing, affording the reader not only the understanding of what happens to each character, but also how that character affects those around them.<br />Many reviewers comment on the overabundance of sex throughout the novel, but when taken in context, it makes perfect sense not only in the lives of the characters, but in the times they were coming of age.  Strangely, the theme of sex unites all three characters.  For Cliona, sex is an abstract concept obscured by religious dogma; for Grace, sex is an act through which she can rebel and attain what she wants; for Grainne, sex is an act through which she can feel something other than her pain.  Anyone who attended Catholic school will understand these women's motivations.<br />The prose is lyrical and caustic.  Even though these women often speak their minds, the way they do so causes a lot of self-doubt and regret.  Too late they realize that their words have fueled actions and feelings that cannot be taken back.  Carey writes wistfully of Ireland, and the beauty that lives there balanced with its desolation and isolation.<br />While this book won't change history, it's a moving and enjoyable read of the lives of these interesting women.  Highly recommended.	2002-09-17
US	50895747	R367Y9HJUVU1Z	0345450647	507398291	Being Alexander	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Everyone's Revenge Fantasy	Yes, yes, this novel is one note.  Yes, most of the supporting characters are not fleshed out.  Yes, the title character can sometimes be difficult to stand. And you know what?  I love it.<br />This is the revenge fantasy we all want to live.  Alex reinvents himself as Alexander, a take-charge, no-holds-bared kind of guy who's not going to put up with anyone's BS anymore...his own included.  Yes, the denouement is trite and predictable, but the book is thoroughly enjoyable in a I-stayed-up-all-night-to-read-this way.  The dialogue is witty, the action swift, and the prose accessible and biting.  If this is a mediocre debut, then I wish most debuts were positively deplorable.<br />Bottom line?  This a fun read that won't tax your imagination, and will make you stand up and cheer more than once.	2002-08-12
US	50895747	R2EIUEB9PBGDRF	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Whatever....	I love Anne Rice.  I love the Chronicles (though not nearly as much as the Mayfair Witches).  Why didn't I love this book?  As you've probably already read, because there's nothing new here.  Readers of all the Chronicles know most of this information about Marius.  And as I've never really been as fascinated by him as I have by Maharet, Mekare, Pandora, et al., this book seemed more like filler to the next chapter.<br />I don't understand why Rice continually pens these love missives to her male alter-egos, when she's continually created vibrant and exciting FEMALE characters.  Why was Pandora's volume so thin, when she's lived over 2000 years?  She's Marius' age, she appears fleetingly in most of the other texts, but she only merits a novella instead of the full treatment?  Where are the volumes on Maharet and Mekare?  The twins are the oldest vampires still walking the earth, and they spent most of their 6000 years apart?  THAT would make for some fascinating storytelling.  <br />The only reason to read Blood and Gold is to glean more about the Vampire Bianca, a fledgling of Marius's.  As she is younger than Armand by only weeks, it stands to reason she was not destroyed by Akasha, and still walks.  There's someone I'd like to read about.<br />Since Rice has decided not to continue the Mayfair series, it sure would be nice if she could give us some anti-heroines to read about in their place.	2001-12-08
US	50895747	RMZC8AFJ7X02O	0486275485	359483598	Medea (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Hell Hath No Fury...	&quot;Medea&quot; is a classical work that many have heard of, but few have actually read.  It is the story of the wife of Jason, leader of Argonauts, and her chilling plot of revenge against an unfaithful husband and his new child-bride.  The play is short, concise, and powerfully unnerving.  Whether this is a history of misogyny or a warning of the vengeance of a wronged woman is a matter better left to scholarly debate.  Provocative, disturbing, and at times heartbreaking, this is a definite must-read for neo-Classicists and avid readers alike.  Not to be missed.	2001-12-08
US	50895747	R2DBH2MMNEP8ZH	0743400453	253668819	Tales of the Slayer, Volume 1 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful!	This book is a terrific collection of short stories about pre-Buffy slayers that fans are sure to enjoy.  Each story is well-paced, individual, and leaves you wanting more.  The weakest story is that of pre-Nazi German Slayer Britta.  While different from the others in that it's told from the view of her Watcher, the plot is so dismaying and heartbreaking, you'll be glad when it's over.  The idea is wonderful, and the delivery well-done, but it leaves you feeling angry and disturbed.  <br />Definitely a great read.  I finished it in just over an hour, and am praying a sequel is in the works, as the story possibilities are limitless.	2001-12-08
US	50895747	R3EIQ8Y540LU9P	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Finally!	Unlike most of the Amazon reviews I've read about Cornwell's recent installment of the Scarpetta saga, I argue that it is perhaps the best installment yet, and returns Kay to the glory that she evinced in the first half-dozen of Cornwell's novels.<br />The Last Precinct provides a more honest and introspective dossier on Kay Scarpetta, her attitudes, and choices.  The reader finally learns WHY Kay acts the way she does, and why she's cloistered her personal life, and the betrayment she experiences when she shrugs off her professional identity for a roll in the hay with a sexy, sneaky younger man.  Personally, I've never seen Kay as paranoid.  I think any woman who has firmly established herself in two predominantly patriarchal fields -- forensic pathology and government service -- is likely to be met with wariness, frustration, and jealousy.  <br />This novel shows a more grown-up Kay who no longer hides behind her degrees or station, and shows us a frightened, emotionally confused and wrung-out woman desperate to take back control of her life on every level.  As usual, the pathology scenes are first rate, but there doesn't seem to be a total subjugation to gore as with some of the previous novels.  Marino is more tender-hearted, Lucy is FINALLY grown-up, and the always-interesting but aloof character of Anna is gleaned.  Even the style of the book fits more with its themes.  Many of the sentences are short and to the point, instead of running-off on the page for paragraphs.  As usual, the story is narrated by Kay, but what's unique here is that Cornwell continuously puts Kay in first person;  &quot;I think...,&quot; &quot;I feel...,&quot; etc.  I feel more connected to Kay and her psyche in this book than ever before, and it's a thrilling and emotionally satisfying ride.	2001-01-12
US	50895747	R1B10N0I59NJT0	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Classic Rice, BUT...	As usual, Rice's delicious prose and unparalleled character development are top notch.  The plot is engaging and intriguing.  It's truly another Rice masterpiece that deserves it's place in the canon of modern American literature.<br />The only way in which this novel is a disappointment is to those readers who desperately are seeking either more Mayfair drama or a unification between the preternatural worlds that Rice has narrated.  Yes, Merrick is a Mayfair.  But she's one we've never seen, and she's seemingly unrelated to those Mayfairs that have won so many readers' hearts.  By the end of the novel, of course you'll fall in love with Merrick, and be grateful to have her in you library.  But what of Rowan, Michael, and Mona?  Wouldn't it be more interesting to see how these witches would relate to Merrick, a voodooienne octaroon cousin?<br />It's an astonishing and powerful book, but if you're looking for more of the Mayfairs or hopingbeggingpraying for some kind of interaction between the Vampires and the Witches, you won't find it here.  Hopefully, Rice is using this as a teasing precursor of great things to come.	2001-01-12
US	50895747	R2XCWPB23XG04Y	0345384369	591020220	Intensity	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Unabashadly Predictable	I've read several of Koontz's books and never have I felt that one of the movies based on his books actually lived up to the text.  However, after reading Intensity, I can only think that it would better as a MOVIE than a  book.  The premise is provocative, if not entirely original, and the action  scenes are written well.  Several times throughout the book the plot lagged  and was redundant.  It seemed more as filler between action sequences; the  parts where the reader gets a glimpse into Chyna's psyche are excellent,  but they too become repetitive.  Too many descriptions of dobermans,  gleaming knives and cellophane wrappers overwhelm a plot that could have  been resolved quicker and more satisfying.	1999-10-04
