US	50893687	RBFGP8UPIIH9H	0520088085	969453681	Emerson: The Mind on Fire	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	When the genius of biography meets the genius of literature	Mr. Richardson's 'Thoreau  A Life of the Mind' was not only the best biography I've read on Thoreau, but one of the most exhilerating and enlightening reading experiences of my life. So I decided to read his 'Emerson  The Mind on Fire.' And it was every bit as intimate and intelligent.<br /><br />There are times you feel that you're intruding upon Waldo and Henry on one of their walks. It was an endless stroll of two intellectuals and humanists on the path of being very human. Each of the one hundred chapters (both books) are kept short, which helps move the reader from topic to topic without ever feeling put upon (too much detail can drag what is otherwise very interesting.) Though, for me personally, I would love to savor every moment these two great men shared. I don't think I could ever get bored.<br /><br />Emerson has many close friends with whom one gets to know intimately. His personal address book was a whose whose of literary and intellectual greats.<br /><br />The relationship between Emerson and his second wife, Lidian, is of great interest. She was also intellectual and as much a partner in life as she was a wife. Her presence is everywhere in Emerson's life.<br /><br />Emerson's essays are pure poetry. And the behind the scene snippets into how they became a part of his legacy was both insightful and relevant to the day to day interactions and causes he committed himself. His transformation from the unremarkable child into the neverending 'student' of self-education and commitment to social conscience throughout his entire adult life is one to be admired.<br /><br />Mr. Richardson is one of the best biographers of nineteenth century literaries. He is truly one with his topic.	2005-09-23
US	50893687	R1P9N2PYBCWMUL	0812824415	929270815	The Gays Among Us:A Study of Homosexuality In Men & Women	Books	1	6	11	N	Y	The road to Hell is paved with good intentions	'Homosexuality is a condition not of the body but of the personality. It consists of the abnormal pattern of emotional development such that the individual is sexually aroused by, and prone to become emotionally fixated on (i.e. fall in love with) members of his or her own sex.' (page 12)<br /><br />'The Gays Among Us' was first written in 1966, with this current edition revised in 1968, which places it into the era and context to which it was conceived. I am currently reading Magee's 'The Philosophy of Schopenhauer,' which is why I purchased this difficult to locate book. In the Schopenhauer book Magee mentions that homosexuality was (I'm paraphrasing) a phase that males usually encountered during adolescence, then stopped until one reached one's very late years. In an otherwise brilliant and enlightened book, this statement leaped out at me as absurd. My first thought was that Magee was totally out of touch with human sexuality (at least homosexuality and gay men) or that he was closeted and in denial at his own sexuality, and seeking to justify his own thinking and behavior (it is made clear in 'The Gays Among Us' that Magee is 'straight'.) Ok. Then I'll go with the first thought here. Hence, my interest to purchase this book.<br /><br />Mr. Magee is native to Britain. But his thinking is steeped in the 1950's McCarthyism prevalent in the United States. He is the liberal intellectual educator of this era who confused the map with the landscape. His understandings and conclusions are based on outdated (well recognized in 2004) assumptions and data.<br /><br />Again and again he refers to homosexuality as a 'condition' to be 'cured'. As an illness one must learn to accept. As an undesirable and shameful existence no one would want to endure. And Mr. Magee, who I truly believe attempted to do some groundbreaking research, promoting tolerance and, even, understanding, does so from a base of the best intentions but the most blinding ignorance. He has accepted every negative study and prejudice regarding homosexuality as fact, as truth, as a springboard in which to educate the masses on how to be more tolerant.<br /><br />What was really needed here was a correct starting point, a ground zero that doesn't get tangled in Homo Sapiens as a unique set of circumstances that are not bound to the commonality and development of every other species.<br /><br />Magee dwells on the 'circumstances' within a child's early years as the reason behind homosexuality. Yes, of course our environment plays a huge role in our development. But something as fundamental as one's sexuality is not so wishy-washy as to be altered by superficial fluctuations decided by environmental circumstances and conditions. The punctuations of any species will not contradict, let alone undermine, life's undeniable, irrepressible force and drive to propagate and flourish, unless the adaptation is to fascilitate a systemic change that ensures and expands a species development to advance under new conditions or new circumstances.<br /><br />On the surface homosexuality, if wide spread, could harm the continuation of a species. Therefore, there must be conditions and circumstances, benefits, to that species to incorporate homosexuality. Homosexuality is only important to society in how it benefits or adversely affects society and the continuation of the species. And, yes, one's environment can decide whether one is a healthy and happy homosexual or an unhealthy and unhappy homosexual. Just as it will determine whether one is a healthy and happy heterosexual or an unhealthy and unhappy heterosexual. Again, that is the superficial conditions and attitudes unique to every society, time and individual. However, it is not the cause but the health and happiness of those affected.<br /><br />Homosexuality is revealed by one's sexual orientation but has significance much deeper and broader. It is understanding homosexuality in terms other than a sexual act or orientation that will shed light on its purpose and benefits to a society. The individual is simply the vehicle to some larger reasons and purpose.<br /><br />'One final point. If homosexuality cannot be cured, except perhaps in a handful of cases, then society is forced to the same conclusion as the individual homosexual; it must drop the aim of extirpating the condition and instead come to terms with it and live with it. Clearly no final solution is possible except, imaginably, a Hitlerian one of physically liquidating all homosexuals. But even this would not be a 'final' solution, because being homosexual, unlike being Jewish, is not inherited; so even if all the homosexuals in the world were wiped out we could be sure the next generation would produce its crop of one in twenty.' (page 34)<br /><br />Of course if one is treated like garbage, like a social disease, like an outcast, one will behave in an unhealthy and unacceptable way, regardless of race, geography or sexual orientation. Tell me the sum of my worth is all tied to my sexual self, a self that has been condemned as illegal, immoral, ungodly, anti-social, unhealthy, undesirable, then you will end up with some very undesirable and offensive behavior. Shine the spotlight on one's genitals instead of the total human being, you will then be blinded and disgusted by every prejudice and personal hang-up you have about sex and yourself.<br /><br />Human beings invented the idea and definition of 'homosexuality' and 'heterosexuality.' Nature and evolution are indifferent to such distinctions. There are no accidents within the slow and deliberate movement of evolution. Nothing evolves without a reason and a purpose. If we are to understand 'homosexuality' we must first begin from the beginning, before there was such a thing as homosexuality or heterosexuality. We must, without prejudice and within the full scope of evolution, prehuman history and within the evolution and characteristics of all species, study the circumstances and conditions and the 'why' of what is if we are going to truly break any new ground on this subject or any other aspect of life and human behavior and society.<br /><br />This book, as well intended as it surely was, missed the mark and did a disservice to human understanding. Mr. Magee was given a golden moment to do as he has done elsewhere in his writing. But he wasn't up to the task on this subject. He attempted something he only intellectually thought he understood. He was way over his head on this one. Though he has my respect. As we sometimes can be no more than what the moment has told us, and he did the best with what he understood and knew.osexuality in terms other than a sexual act or orientation that will shed light on its purpose and benefits to a society. The individual is simply the vehicle to some larger reasons and purpose. <br /> <br /> <br />'One final point. If homosexuality cannot be cured, except perhaps in a handful of cases, then society is forced to the same conclusion as the individual homosexual; it must drop the aim of extirpating the condition and instead come to terms with it and live with it. Clearly no final solution is possible except, imaginably, a Hitlerian one of physically liquidating all homosexuals. But even this would not be a 'final' solution, because being homosexual, unlike being Jewish, is not inherited; so even if all the homosexuals in the world were wiped out we could be sure the next generation would produce its crop of one in twenty.' (page 34) <br /> <br /> <br />Of course if one is treated like garbage, like a social disease, like an outcast, one will behave in an unhealthy and unacceptable way, regardless of race, geography or sexual orientation. Tell me the sum of my worth is all tied to my sexual self, a self that has been condemned as illegal, immoral, ungodly, anti-social, unhealthy, undesirable, then you will end up with some very undesirable and offensive behavior. Shine the spotlight on one's genitals instead of the total human being, you will then be blinded and disgusted by every prejudice and personal hang-up you have about sex and yourself.  <br /> <br /> <br />Human beings invented the idea and definition of 'homosexuality' and 'heterosexuality.' Nature and evolution are indifferent to such distinctions. There are no accidents within the slow and deliberate movement of evolution. Nothing evolves without a reason and a purpose. If we are to understand 'homosexuality' we must first begin from the beginning, before there was such a thing as homosexuality or heterosexuality. We must, without prejudice and within the full scope of evolution, prehuman history and within the evolution and characteristics of all species, study the circumstances and conditions and the 'why' of what is if we are going to truly break any new ground on this subject or any other aspect of life and human behavior and society. <br /> <br /> <br />This book, as well intended as it surely was, missed the mark and did a disservice to human understanding. Mr. Magee was given a golden moment to do as he has done elsewhere in his writing. But he wasn't up to the task on this subject. He attempted something he only intellectually thought he understood. He was way over his head on this one. Though he has my respect. As we sometimes can be no more than what the moment has told us, and he did the best with what he understood and knew.	2004-10-26
US	50893687	RH1GM3VYSXD7J	0940450151	38740728	Emerson: Essays and Lectures: Nature: Addresses and Lectures / Essays: First and Second Series / Representative Men / English Traits / The Conduct of Life (Library of America)	Books	5	42	46	N	Y	Emerson's prose are pure poetry and brilliance	Emerson is to the literary world in America as Lincoln was to the political world in the 1860's. His stature as a thinker, writer and public figure to admire brought American literature to new heights. <br /> <br /> <br />I think Thoreau has more relevance to us in the year 2004, and had profounder insights, but Emerson, more the academic and intellectual, wrote with the elegance and intelligence of the gods. He was much superior to Thoreau in style and breadth of subject matter, he was more well-rounded and able to connect with his peers, both personally and as an author. And through this intimate friendship and association shared by Emerson and Thoreau, and any literary and intellectual comparison made between these two men, only serves to enhance and expand the other's significance and genius. For me there was an integration and balance, a synergy, almost a partnership, in how they contributed to American literature and the intellectual community. <br /> <br /> <br />This collection is a beautiful addition to my library. It contains Emerson's major essays e.g. 'Nature,' 'Beauty,' 'Compensation,' 'Self-Reliance,' and 'The Poet' and his public addresses e.g. 'The American Scholar,' (a big favorite of mine.) <br /> <br /> <br />This is a quality collection at a reasonable price. I was actually concerned that the quality might suffer because I thought the price so low. But it was not compromised. Both Emerson and this collection should be in your library. Highly recommended.	2004-10-15
US	50893687	R3QM3R5VIG43JW	0940450275	810664590	Henry David Thoreau : A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers / Walden; Or, Life in the Woods / The Maine Woods / Cape Cod (Library of America)	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	I respect no one more than I do Henry David Thoreau	It was Thoreau who made me understand that writing had everything to do with one's sum total and worth as a human being, and everything to do with one's passion and sense of purpose in life. It was while reading from an anthology of his work that I first made contact with a superior being. I recognized a mind that I could be intimate with, a mind and soul of someone with whom I could spend endless hours and never cease to learn from.      Thoreau's style is cumbersome. He can be terribly dry, and his paragraphs run way too long. But who cares when passages ignite the page with brilliance, flame from the black and white of paper into the depths of one's being. 'Walden' has more profound and relevant quotes than any other book I've read. They're the purest gems to be found in the rough of a larger work. A work that I wouldn't dare to diminish, but forewarn the reader so that they have the patience and perseverance to continue.      I would like to mention a superb biography written on the life and mind of Thoreau, a biography that exceeds and exceeds in going deeper into the life and mind of this great and humane and very misunderstood man, it is called: 'Henry Thoreau --  A Life Of The Mind,' by Robert D. Richardson Jr. Mr. Richardson not only wrote a biography, he was on a mission, for he knew and believed in what his subject was about. As comprehensive, insightful and exhilerating as any biography can or should be.      The price and quality of this anthology can't be beat. Beautiful to read and beautiful to see on my book shelf. Buy it! Get to know this man of yesterday, today and tomorrow.	2004-10-15
US	50893687	R1O9GSYUD6CL42	094045002X	602341169	Walt Whitman: Poetry and Prose (Library of America)	Books	5	45	46	N	Y	As a young man Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman were my holy	trinity. My debt and appreciation has never diminished to this threesome. In fact, only increases. <br /> <br /> <br />The reason that I came across the Library of America series is that after many years of use, my copy of 'Leaves of Grass' was giving way to time. I was looking for a quality hardcover that I would not only use over and over again, but one that looked elegant on my book shelf. <br /> <br /> <br />I am completely happy with both the quality of the book: binding, cover, print, paper and compactness as well as the contents. There are volumes of Whitman's written words available, and are worth the owning, but this collection captures his essence, and should go a long way in keeping the lover of 'Leaves of Grass' happy and satisfied.	2004-10-15
US	50893687	R3LVGQET9WDNFE	1413705588	344350819	Poems From My Bleeding Heart	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A great deal of potential is revealed here	Dave had sent me some of his poems to read before I read the entire collection. His favorites were not my favorites. But after giving the book a much deserved slow read, I found many pieces of high and promising quality.<br />I'm a little older than Dave, twenty some years. So the youthful charms have long passed, as have the days of idealistic romance. I have settled into a quiet fire of true and deep love. So when I read some of Dave's wild fire poems, I don't click. That's not to say they're not well done. <br />However, when Dave hits on a subject of more mature love and intimacy, he hits a homerun. Some truly beautiful imagery and insights. His Ginsberg influence in obvious at times, but always in his own style and words. So they work and are not imitations.<br />His more political pieces are also quite relevant and insightful. He's very good at giving one liners that have either an afterglow or an extended shelf life of intellectual value.<br />Why didn't I give the book five stars? Like all poets, there are some pieces not up to par with the rest. But that's ok. I'd be happy for only a few excellent pieces, Dave's gives us many.	2004-06-13
US	50893687	R8WM2DQ2M3DTH	0060647965	325685280	The Ending of Time (Dialogue)	Books	5	37	40	N	Y	Lucid, intelligent & punctures mankind's invisible bell jar	I was introduced to Krishnamurti in 1975 by a friend and contemporary of his. I wasn't, yet, ready for such a revelation as Krishnamurti represented. \\"The Ending Of Time\\" is perhaps the most significant book I've read in my almost fifty years on this planet. He punctures the bell jar of that Garden of Delusion and Deception humankind has created. This is the first perspective not to insult me intellectually. As I read the series of dialogues between Krishnamurti and Dr. Bohm in 1980 I found myself correctly anticipating where the conversation was going. For the past twenty-five years I've been heading in this direction. I'm not one for romantic notions, mythical excapades and fantasy or in need of an emotional fix to save my soul. I was looking for something that was both intellegent and spoke to me directly.<br />I had recently finished \\"The Tao Of Physics\\" by Fritjof Capra for the third time. Capra's book serves as an excellent practical guide and springboard into the likes of a Krishnamurti; in fact, I think it was reading \\"The Tao Of Physics\\" that allowed me to have the type of foundation and understanding to make the quantum leap into the realm of Krishnamurti. I am currently reading \\"Star In The East\\". I'm interesting in understanding Krishnamurti's personal history. The one thing that strikes me most is, his \\"enlightenment\\" is because and, more importantly, inspite of his involvement with the Theosophical Society. The contrast that emerges between one like Krishnamurti and those who have obviously not punctured that invisible bell share of delusion and deception is glaring, and serves to make Krishnamurti even more poignant and relevant.<br />Anyone with a similar appreciation for Krishnamurti please contact me. I would very much like to learn and have a dialogue on both this lovely man and his state of mind.	2003-03-30
US	50893687	R27280GDGNCH24	0471252522	718856168	The Dawn of Human Culture	Books	5	13	18	N	Y	No need to be ashamed of our history or hairy grandparents	I was looking for an indepth and comprehensive introduction into the beginnings of man. \\"The Dawn Of Human Culture\\" takes the reader, step by step, through the long and meandering history of Modern Man. While archaeology and anthropolgy are not black and white theories, one who is a neophite, as I am, will quickly feel at ease and comfortable in the methodology and qualifications of the writers and science incorporated within.<br />The book will often make the reader pause, not so much because one cannot understand the language and science but, rather, because of the profound revelations and relevance of their discoveries. One cannot be but a bit taken back by the fact that when we look back, back, back into our family tree, it is a very literal statement being made. <br />One must face one's self in the most honest and naked way. Santa Claus and wishful thinking were fine when we were young but once the science and truth of humankind's origins has been revealed, and eventually absorbed and accepted, Modern Man's evolution becomes even more fascinating and miraculous than the Bible stories one was brought up on. We are the marvel and the cancer of this planet. And this book is a good blueprint to where we came from and what it will take to make the future a better and more humane place.	2002-09-11
US	50893687	R1R1GWFBQU8QV6	0786864265	235660413	The Rolling Stone Book of the Beats: The Beat Generation and the American Culture	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good overview in retrospect	I have a fascination with the Beats so I was receptive to what may be called some of the low points. What was of real interest to me was reading the aftermath (children of beats) of their adventures and Bohemian lifestyle. Most of their family lives (their offspring) were beyond dysfunctional but disasterous. If you're going to live this lifestyle use contraceptives.<br />The book offers an insider view of the personalities and why things came together so brilliantly and why they fell apart. The Beats (Ginsberg, Kerouac, Burroughs, Cassady) were the Beatles (Lennon, McCartney, Harrison, Starr) of the 50's. Their personalities jelled into the same kind of perfect symmetry and synergy that exploded into something bigger than any of the parts. And the book does an excellent reporting of the times and undercurrents that brought it all together. The illusion of a united mindset was revealed as very different personalities and backgrounds who had a common thread which they spun into a glorious tapestry.<br />People seem to need myth and magic, and like the Beatles they supplied it. But beneath the illusion was, nonetheless, the real thing.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the book from cover to cover. And yes I too don't care how this screwed up Johnny Depp's life (though he is an incredible actor). The editors wanted some big name splashes that, unfortunately, detracted from the subject but that is a minor complaint. If you're at all interested in the Beats or of some really thinking human beings this is a great start.	2002-09-10
US	50893687	R3PD2DQQGIDA7F	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Years ahead of its time	I wonder what it was like for people to read and talk to Huxley before time and technology revealed how ahead of his time he was? In the year 2002 we've come to believe just about anything is possible as technology steamrolls through our lives and pretty much over us.<br />\\"Brave New World\\" is as relevant today as it was when it was written. Pershaps more so. Why? Because we now know its more fact than fiction.<br />Thinking Man vs. the conventional mind has and will always be the great divide. As technology offers more entertainment and caresses (the ability to keep us contented and happy) the more we give up as thinking, feeling beings. The more alien we become to our nature.<br />\\"Brave New World\\" offers a glimpse into where we might be headed. I, however, still believe the social/econimic divide will make this a much more unstable and dangerous world than \\"Brave New World\\" allows for.<br />Books like \\"Brave New World\\" will be eliminated (as much as possible) in this world, and the need for such books, though much greater, will become pornographic and subversive excursions shunned by a proper and polite society that does not read such rude and disgusting smut.<br />\\"Brave New World\\" is a fast read that leaves you in a state of limbo when you turn the final page. So much happened so fast that you now need to let it churn in your mind. You need to ask yourself some important questions on how this affects you and the future of humankind.<br />Read it, reread it, then think, then do something! Otherwise....	2002-09-09
US	50893687	R1J22US505MQQV	0520063465	214162709	Henry Thoreau: A Life of the Mind	Books	5	78	80	N	Y	A biography and biographer equal to this man and his life	As a young man my Holy Trinity was: Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman. Emerson's essays are pure poetry; Thoreau's \\"Walden\\" and \\"Civil Disobedience\\" became a blueprint on how to live and why to write; and Whitman's life and \\"Leaves Of Grass\\" taught me about myself.<br />\\"A Life Of The Mind\\" filled each page with the authenticity and richness of a life well lived. Thoreau, the humanness, the naturalist, the friend and son; the poet of the unraveling, entangled soul beating within the humdrum of everyday and ordinary life, leaps from every page. I have read other biographies on Thoreau which never captured the mind and writer of \\"Walden\\". Here the man and life equalled and qualified the literature.<br />Richardson is more than a biographer of Thoreau; he's made from the same stock. He didn't simply tell of a man and his life, he savored, and shared in the same poetics and struggles as the man he researched. The theme of Thoreau's life was an opportunity to express his own convictions and struggles.<br />It was while reading an anthology of Thoreau's work that I first understood why some poets and writers must write. I came to understand how every sentence could be layered with meaning and timelessness. After reading this biography I must reread my annotated \\"Walden\\". I must sit in my backyard amongst the leaves and flowers and shapes and densities I've not paid attention to in some time.	2002-09-08
US	50893687	R30735GR3TWIY	0140193375	251739920	Cosmic Consciousness: A Study in the Evolution of the Human Mind (Compass)	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Twenty years between reads and what a difference	In your twenties, when you're still naive and an idealist, this book fills a large void. But in your forties this book begins to leak at the seam. This is not to say that there isn't great value to the book and idea; but, rather, a very different perspective from this reader twenty years later. If you take away the idealism (which is beautiful but fatal here) and the wishful thinking that there must be a God, then you can begin to see its true value. The evolution of man (or more appropriately, the individual) is factual and very real. Some human beings evolve intellectually, emotionally and spiritually into something much more than the apes and the masses. A true leap in human evolution. But that's where it ends. You have some individuals (this cosmic leap increases as health, education, technology, etc. advance as well as when the population increases) who make this cosmic leap yet the masses remain in the murky waters of their life experiences, individual capacities, prejudices, fears, etc. In the end, we have those who have projected our potential into the future. &quot;Cosmic Consciousness&quot; is well worth the read but can be misleading if you're looking for something that doesn't really exist.	2001-06-06
US	50893687	R3V1E4I61EQIZF	0520064437	495619674	Antonin Artaud: Selected Writings	Books	5	44	48	N	N	The theatre, life and writings of a brilliant lunatic	This isn't a book that you read from cover to cover. Find a subject that interests you. Then another. And then another. Soon you'll find yourself caught in his web of genius. His madness came from his endless spring of sanity that could no longer hold up under the insanity of the world he lived in. Genius suffers. He suffered too much. Years ago I saw a one man play &quot;Artaud's Project&quot; in Chicago. Best piece of theatre I've ever seen. This was my introduction to Artaud. This book captures this brilliant lunatic's crystal clear vision and pain. His letters are prehaps the highlight of this collection. This book is not for the masses, though, I wish it were. So much insanity and ignorance could be wiped out in a single stroke if people understood this man. Of course the sane appear to be insane in an insane world. If any of what I've said makes the least bit of sense to you this book is for you!	2001-05-27
US	50893687	R2KAY051P1V7W4	0766107752	468429668	Towards Democracy	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	England's Walt Whitman	There are certain people and particular pieces of literature that belong to the fabric of man's truest nature. This book, like &quot;Leaves Of Grass&quot; and &quot;Walden&quot; and Emerson's essays, belongs in that category. This is one of those books that are for those quiet moments when the inner space within needs nourishment. Carpenter is the type of man I long to talk to. He understands the fundamentals of the human experience. He is very different than W.W. yet very similar. W.W.'s poetry is more to my liking but Carpenter's temperament and perspective makes W.W. more poignant and relevant. Very powerful lives and natures entangled in the cosmic dance of life. They compliment one another. This is a book to be sipped and savoured in the quiet moments at either the beginning or end of one's day.	2001-05-27
US	50893687	R2SAF92K65Q1EZ	0306806703	582351486	Franz Kafka	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	Kafka's friend and biographer offers much insight	This biography lets you on the inside of not only a great writer but on the inside of a close friendship between two writers and friends. It's written in a rather relaxed way, the way only good friends can be with one another. I read a biography on Kafka many years ago and it left me a bit indifferent about Kafka. This biography lets you feel the warmth and exuberance of the man, the everyday of this extraordinary writer. You can almost imagine yourself in his childhood home, meeting the family, understanding how Kafka became Kafka, how the seeds for his stories were planted and evolved. This biography had all the intimacy of an autobiography. Anyone who would like to know the tender underside of the beast, this is the biography you're looking for.	2001-05-23
US	50893687	R2HZGZCNH131TE	0679722327	541403885	Adam, Eve, and the Serpent: Sex and Politics in Early Christianity	Books	5	21	35	N	N	The mirror she holds before you will blind most	Elaine Pagels fascinates me. Her research and comprehension as a writer/historian helps one focus, if one has an open mind and the comprehension to do so, on questions vital to our understanding who we are and how we became who we are. For those of us who believe in high ethics and individual responsibility, who have charity and compassion in our hearts yet believe ourselves to be intelligent and educated, this book is a triumph. One begins to understand how one can live and believe in the ethics and example of the great spiritual leaders of antiquity without believing the myths, the fear and miracles, and the need to elevate ourselves above all other forms of life. Elaine Pagels holds the mirror before you, as she does in her other books, and blinds those who must hang on to salvation and anything that saves them from the natural ebb and flow of life. We know too much but not enough, so we struggle for something more, anything to comfort us from the truth. &quot;Adam, Eve, and the Serpent&quot; reveals too much for those who need a &quot;fix&quot; to get through the day. Elaine Pagels deals with something larger and profounder than saving one's soul. She is a true liberator of the human spirit, even with the harsh truths that flow from her typewriter.	2001-05-20
US	50893687	R1JLW3B98VCFDU	0766101207	524005388	Days with Walt Whitman with Some Notes on His Life and Work	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Insightful and interesting to hear first hand about Whitman	Whitman, Ginsberg and Dylan are three of America's greatest offsprings. And while Ginsberg and Dylan are of our times and can be appreciated in the here and now, and nicely preserved thanks to modern technology, Whitman remains in a time that seems more and more distant as America changes, what seems, hour by hour. Whitman, that great poet (Leaves Of Grass) and humanitarian (his efforts to comfort soldiers injured during the Civil War) was a great inspiration to this kindred and sophisticated spirit from England, Edward Carpenter (also a poet). Carpenter offers some of the most insightful and poetic glimpses into this giant of a man. You can almost see Whitman's reflection in the mirror Carpenter holds before you. This little book is a must for anyone interested in Whitman, and what WW was really about.	2001-05-20
US	50893687	R3MBS0QFVXQ1TH	0847818411	151298100	Nudes Egon Schiele	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Leaves out some of his best nudes	Egon Schiele remains one of my favorite artists. &quot;Nudes&quot; does have some excellent pieces included but should have been far more inclusive, since Schiele has such an extensive portfolio to draw from. Too many sketches that are only interesting because of the artist who drew them. This book is worth having if you're a true Schiele fan. However, I would strongly recommend &quot;Schiele&quot; by Wolfgang Georg Fisher if you want a more rounded perspective and those other nudes that should have been included here.	2001-05-08
US	50893687	R1HTXZK50Y5N1W	3822872237	264124375	Egon Schiele (Big Series Art)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Excellent overview of one of Modern's cutting edge artists	Jammed with photos of Schiele, the different subjects and styles from his short career, and background information. This book also serves as a biography in many ways. Schiele's style is full of life's decay and resurrection. His work is only seen as being decadent because we have alienated ourselves so completely from nature and human nature. The natural decay of life is only ugly when one thinks one is above it all or removed from the process. His young nude girls have a silken decadence that glimpses into our natural beauty and being. Instead of turning from the mirror when one sees something less than what one wants to see, Schiele turns the spotlight on until the image is engraved into our psyche. The power of his colors and strokes and images are second to none. He's controversial. But so is Darwin. He tells us things we don't want to hear or see.	2001-05-08
US	50893687	R229XAYA06V2FY	0913391190	35154936	Jackson Pollock: An American Saga	Books	5	15	18	N	N	An excellent bio on an abusive and brilliant artist?	This is a well researched and written biography. Pollock was alcoholic, abusive and not someone I would have wanted to know. He hurt the woman he loved- or at least loved him. This biography travels through the world of art and money as well as the bowels of self-hatred and Hell. Was he an artist or just lucky (drip painting)? Do some brilliant moments in creativity justify such abuse toward others? Was his confusion about his sexual identity at the core of his artistic and abusive self? This biography goes into the psychological and creative mind and life of an extremely complex though not so interesting individual. Given the right circumstances just about anyone can appear interesting and brilliant. Good connections and lucky breaks can pave the way to painting a brilliant illusion. Maybe that was his greatest masterpiece. With that all said, the biography is brilliant, and that's no illusion. One of the most insightful reads on the art world during the middle of the twentieth century. You'll read about famous people, and find a new and enlightening perspective of how it evolved and the stuff it was made of. Highly enjoyable and recommended!	2001-03-07
US	50893687	ROJY3IOP04FKD	0679416021	678931768	Dared And Done: The Marriage of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A very nice bio into the life and poetry of immortal lovers	The Brownings hold a special place in my world, especially EBB. &quot;Sonnets From The Portuguese&quot; speaks with the eloquence, dignity and passion of the human ideal behind the flaws and veils of life and lovers (both RB and EBB's poetry are available on disc). Especially the last ten sonnets. EBB wrote not only about love and lovers, but about the human condition. She lived an insulated life yet was by nature a worldly and sophisticated soul. RB struggled with his inability to support his family, living off of EBB's inheritance annuity. Through this biography I was better able to appreciate his humaness and struggle, though I am still inclined toward EBB and her poetry. They were the sum of many contradictions, the big one being that they were so English (formal and proper) yet Bohemian in their liberal thinking. Both lovers and artists in the same household, in the same relationship, in the same struggle to survive and create (they do remind me of John Lennon and Yoko Ono's struggle and life together). While the book probably told the whole story, at least as much as a biographer can research and reveal, I still felt something lacking. I wanted the story to go on a little longer, a little deeper. I knew quite a bit about EBB before I began the book, I learned much more about her heritage and conflicts by reading this biography. My appreciation is much greater. It's a shame that we Moderns let so much of our heritage lay dormat (literaturewise) in the vaults of the &quot;old days&quot;. To sip and savour the lives and poetry of the past is something we should cherish and celebrate. This book points in that direction. I strongly recommend this to all lovers of RB &amp; EBB and poetry.	2001-03-07
US	50893687	R22LD3OM2SVHV3	1555972497	676467890	Kabloona: Among the Inuit (Graywolf Rediscovery Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Some books stay with you for a lifetime	It's been years since I read &quot;Kabloona&quot; by gontran de poncins. I don't remember the specifics of the book (I'm going to read it again, soon). What I do remember is the lingering humanity of the people. The hard life they lived. The culture shock between my life and theirs. I remember the mirror they held before me, forcing me to question our idea of &quot;progress,&quot; &quot;civility,&quot; and &quot;modern man&quot;. Books such as &quot;Kabloona&quot; and &quot;Black Elk Speaks&quot; by John G. Neihardt and &quot;Mutant Message&quot; by Marlo Morgan tells us more about our roots as a species than many of the great thinkers and philosphers who speak in the abstract and grandeur of modern man. You read a book like this and you must pause and reflect, look deeper into yourself and the rushing stream you were born into.                                                                                                                         Step back and look at life from a different perspective. It can be life-altering or at the very least a stunning revelation.	2001-02-25
US	50893687	R9BWT0B7TSKIN	0553375067	559651636	Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	More than just a long, hard look into the mirror	No matter how smart or talented one may be, if you haven't &quot;Emotional Intelligence&quot; you might be going around and around in circles in your life and career. After reading this book I saw my cognitive and emotional self in a more brilliant and harmonious light. One is not less than the other. And as much as we worship cognitive I.Q. I've come to see my emotional I.Q. as the rudder of my boat. One great thought came out of this book, which I've passed on to many people, and it goes like this: &quot;I am responsible for how I approach and respond to all situations, regardless.&quot; Just because you're a jerk to me doesn't justify my being a jerk to you. If we're both being jerks or screaming at one another, who's in control? nobody! The one who remains calm and collect has maintained control over the situation as well as his self-respect. The first two chapters tell it all. Read it all but read the first two chapter over and over again.	2001-02-24
US	50893687	R1SH14LT9KXJ06	0553379011	668741763	The Story of B	Books	5	63	68	N	N	A thousand piece jigsaw puzzle before your eyes	Quinn put a thousand scattered pieces I had in my head and put them into one incredible horrific jigsaw puzzle. The story is ok. It's the &quot;public teachings&quot; that are at the core of both this story and his purpose. We can't face the truth about ourselves. We have to believe that we are God's chosen, that which is removed and above nature. We wrote the history books, the bibles, the science books, the culture of human beings. It's all slanted in our favor and honor. Of course it is. How can we speak the truth without self-destructing as individuals and a culture? Too bad we can't face our place in the universe and upon the Earth. We're not so bad. Just full of ourselves. This book will shake you to your foundation. It will leave you a bit lost and empty. But what is lost and empty can be found and filled again. Intuitively I knew the truth before I read the book. A great thank you for putting it together so profoundly and so clearly.	2001-02-20
US	50893687	R2CDPN8SGUMR6M	1573225681	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	5	64	71	N	Y	A wise and beautiful book about you and your neighbors	I originally purchased the book because Elaine Pagels put her stamp of approval on it (she wrote the introduction). This is a wise and beautiful book. If you're caught up in dogma, tradition and need to be pampered and saved, this book might not be for you. If you wish to live, learn and love humanely, open your mind and look beyond the horizon, you'll enjoy this feast. I keep this book by my bedside table, close to my &quot;YES Yoko Ono&quot; art book, very different yet very similar books. I'm not interested in any one religion but I very much enjoy being human. Our culture and history weighs us with so much baggage. Life is full of illusion and delusion. There is a simplicity and honesty behind all that distracts and prejudices us as individuals and a culture. So much talk about &quot;peace&quot; and &quot;love&quot; yet we remain empty headed to the Truth behind our existence. This book brings what's of importance to the surface. A book to read in whole and in parts over and over again. A book of healing and awakening. No great revelations. Just you reading about you and your neighbors.	2001-02-20
US	50893687	R13M7K96JRGWSZ	0312112637	926677734	Dharma Lion: A Critical Biography of Allen Ginsberg	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A substantive bio on one of America's great poets	It's been several years since I read &quot;Dharma Lion&quot;. However, it remains for me as one of the finest and most focused journeys into the mind, soul, art and life of a truly great poet and an amazing individual. The life and times and creative genius of Allen Ginsberg will inspire many people for different reasons. First, as a poet, he blew the lid off traditional poetry in the same way Picasso turned art into an intellectual and psychological study of man and the world he has created. Ginsberg was a liberating force for all those who felt &quot;stuck&quot; and &quot;frustrated&quot; by the American &quot;ideal&quot; dream. Second, as one of the beat writers and the ultimate &quot;Bohemian&quot; in his thinking and lifestyle, Ginsberg is fascinating to read about. His travels, both inner and global, take the reader behind, beneath and beyond their wildest imagination. As I read about his adventures, I wondered how he had the energy and money to maintain his incredible journey. Third, his openness and frankness as a gay man was truly heoric and remarkable for his time. Ginsberg, like Walt Whitman, understood the beauty of the mind and the body, and celebrated himself and life through his poetry and how he lived. He fully embraced himself and life in a way that will always leave those who haven't the depth and breadth of a Ginsberg, cold and turned off to this poetic and primal celebration of the Self. Michael Schumacher not only wrote a biography about a literary giant, but filled every inch with the insights and brilliance of Ginsberg and his times. I like a slow read, one that I can savour and think about, put down and pick up again, and then continue the read with more interest and perceptiveness, not only for the subject matter but about life and myself as well. &quot;Dharma Lion&quot; is a biography I'll surely go back to one of these days and enjoy as much, if not more, than I did on the first read. I've recommended this book to many of my friends and Istrongly recommend it to you.	2000-11-11
US	50893687	RJSOP3R3E4M21	0877735948	568909588	The Tao Of Physics (3rd Edition-Updated)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Thought provoking with a bridge between East and West	I've read &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; two and one half times. The first time was fifteen years ago (the original paperback was a different edition, with a far more thought provoking cover). I then read this edition when it came out (I need to read it a third time, this time with more life experience to draw from). I'm sure most readers struggled with the technical dialogue and laws of physics throughout. I was more able to intuitively appreciate these tougher chapters than intellectually understand these sometimes very abstract and  difficult theories and concepts. Mysticism at times can seem equally abstract and difficult when one has not expereinced specific &quot;mystical&quot; experiences or enough of life itself. However, I intuitively connected to the threads which Capra so painstakingly weaved into his book. I was not looking for the answers to the universe in this book. What I was hoping to find was guidance, and a springboard in which to think in a larger universe. And when I look back, I realize my awareness and receptiveness to a &quot;universe&quot;and &quot;consciousness&quot; which is infinitely larger and wiser than the human experience and consciousness does indeed exits. &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; opened a window or two for me, and the inertia in which I had formed my opinions and prejudices and, then, learned to see and feel and judge the world around me, seemed embarrassingly narrow, lacking and unwise. That was a great insight for this young man at that time. &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; remains one of those books and experience that initially changed me in a small way, that eventually evolved into a substantive life change in how I think and perceive the world around me, and my relationship to it.	2000-11-11
US	50893687	R27TUZVDY8OE52	0877735948	568909588	The Tao Of Physics (3rd Edition-Updated)	Books	4	104	114	N	Y	Thought provoking with a bridge between East and West	I've read &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; two and one half times. The first time was fifteen years ago (the original paperback was a different edition, with a far more thought provoking cover). I then read this edition when it came out (I need to read it a third time, this time with more life experience to draw from). I'm sure most readers struggled with the technical dialogue and laws of physics throughout. I was more able to intuitively appreciate these tougher chapters than intellectually understand these sometimes very abstract and  difficult theories and concepts. Mysticism at times can seem equally abstract and difficult when one has not expereinced specific &quot;mystical&quot; experiences or enough of life itself. However, I intuitively connected to the threads which Capra so painstakingly weaved into his book. I was not looking for the answers to the universe in this book. What I was hoping to find was guidance, and a springboard in which to think in a larger universe. And when I look back, I realize my awareness and receptiveness to a &quot;universe&quot;and &quot;consciousness&quot; which is infinitely larger and wiser than the human experience and consciousness does indeed exits. &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; opened a window or two for me, and the inertia in which I had formed my opinions and prejudices and, then, learned to see and feel and judge the world around me, seemed embarrassingly narrow, lacking and unwise. That was a great insight for this young man at that time. &quot;The Tao Of Physics&quot; remains one of those books and experience that initially changed me in a small way, that eventually evolved into a substantive life change in how I think and perceive the world around me, and my relationship to it.	2000-11-11
US	50893687	R30JVVYQJFF7W7	0810945878	534141212	Y E S Yoko Ono	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	An exquisite and thorough &quot;art book&quot; of a diverse artist	If you like Yoko Ono as an artist, poet, musician or as an individual you will find this book priceless. This book covers all the avenues in which Ono created and expressed herself. &quot;Yes Yoko Ono&quot; accomplishes in book form what &quot;OnoBox&quot; achieved on disc (an extensive collection of an extraordinary woman and artist.) The reviews, letters and material covered all provide the reader with an insightful and intelligent look at not only Yoko Ono but, also,  into the darkly luminous catacombs of the creative force behind this woman. This book is multi-layered with information and photographs that will need to be read and read again and again. This will be a well in which I draw from for years to come. A book I will keep near my bed for late night readings. As Yoko grows older she reminds me more and more of Georgia O'Keeffe, another extraordinary woman and artist. I truly believe that the history books will one day recognize Ono as being as significant as the Beatles and Dylan were to our culture, except that Ono was a more diversified and cutting edge artist and thinker than her contemporaries.	2000-11-07
