US	50903541	R3A9MN7W59F656	1569244030	56332888	One Heart: Universal Wisdom from the World's Scriptures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Outstanding Overview	Did you ever think that it was possible that in the beginning there was only one message?  That over time, the message was sorted to different cultures and languages to meet their needs and yearnings.  Could we all be of the same spiritual being?  Is there any proof that this might be possible?  This book by Bonnie Louise Kuchler is quite a feat and puts a lot of information out here.   <br /> <br />The book does not preach or even analyze, what it does is present the scriptures of the world's major religions side by side for comparison.  Ask a question, for instance drinking, and you will see the scriptures from Native American Religions, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, Judaism, Taoism and Confucianism.   <br /> <br />This is an outstanding book, for education and enlightenment for anyone that is interested in this type of quest.  It's nice to have everything in one book, easy to read, easy to reference.  It is the best book on this type of subject that I have yet to read and a good starter point too.   <br /> <br />Bottom line, buy this one, read it and keep it	2005-01-16
US	50903541	R3MTKX9M4WYK9K	0525945741	557616685	Blessings From the Other Side: Wisdom and Comfort from the Afterlife for this Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting	Sylvia Browne offers advice on the many emotions and feelings that we experience in our lifetime.  Joy, sorrow, grief, anger, revenge, you get the idea.  But she offers such advice in a different way, by explaining what we are here for, what we supposedly did before we came here.  What our loved ones who have passed on are doing now.  For instance, should we really grieve for one who is better off?  Of course not.  But will we grieve, of course we will.  <br />Offering advice on what we want to know along with telling us how normal it can be to feel what we feel.  I have not read other Sylvia Browne books but if this one is an example of her writing I will read more.  She briefly discusses our life's chart, written before we came here, and it's option lines.  This is a good introductory book to her writing I believe.  <br />Bottom line, easy to read, interesting, at times thought provoking, worth the money even at the 190 pages.	2004-07-13
US	50903541	R21JUKYS4PH6JC	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Intriguing	Book:  Many Lives, Many Masters<BR>Writer: Brian Weiss<BR>Format: Paperback<BR>Length: 219 pages<BR>Rating:  ***** (5 stars, outstanding)<br />What an interesting book!  Brian Weiss is an M.D. and chief of psychiatry at a hospital.  He is well educated and has an outstanding career.  He and his wife are happily married although they have experienced some personal tragedy in their family.  When into his life walks a reluctant patient.  <br />Through hypnosis Dr. Weiss uncovers previous lives of this patient, Catherine, who is struggling with some issues in her life.  The book is basically a transcript of what happened and what was said throughout Catherine's treatment and it is very interesting.  <br />Even if you don't believe in reincarnation the book puts forth legitimate issues and thought processes.  It tries to explain that we should be patient, we should not kill, we should follow the commandments of the major religions.  The book enforces the belief in a God, no matter what you call it.  Energy, soul, spirit, God, the Master, it is all the same with different names. <br />I picked up this book and could not put it down, I read it in two evenings.  It is an easy read but also a very engrossing read.  I book that puts forth many ideas.  The facts that we are destroying nature and ecosystems and it could lead to our demise.  <br />It reinforces the belief that life continues after death for our soul, our energy but it takes it even farther to offer \\"proof\\" for the thought process of our souls living many lives.  There will be folks that will tear it down and say that it is not proof (technically it is not) but it is interesting to consider.  It offers more food for thought. <br />Bottom line, no matter which side of the reincarnation debate you fall on I think you should read this book.  For information, for knowledge either for your argument for or to be prepared for your argument against.  No matter how you slice it, this is a great book, a book that should beread by anyone, from teens on up.  For the knowledge, the thought process, or the denial of it all.  Read it, enjoy it.	2004-02-26
US	50903541	R3W0A8VIRTJZ94	1931412766	670347354	Second Messiah: Templars, the Turin Shroud and the Great Secret of Freemasonry	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Interesting	Book:  The Second Messiah<BR>Writer:  Christopher Knight &amp; Robert Lomas<BR>Style:  Hardback<BR>Length: 259 pages<BR>Rating:  *** (3 stars, good)<br />The book asks some hard questions for hard core Christians.  Questions like, is the Bible the true word of God?  Should it be considered to bring forth the only true form of Christianity?  What happened during the \\"missing years\\" right after the crucifixion of Jesus?  Did Peter or Jesus' brother James actually lead the \\"approved\\" church of Jesus Christ.  How do the two differ and why would or could the wrong on prevail?  Why is there no record in the Bible of the almost annihilation of the Jews (God's chosen people) by the Roman's?  These are some of the tough questions asked in the first chapter alone.  <br />Through painstaking research many of the questions are answered in with historical reference.  There is quite a case presented for the \\"Shroud of Turin\\" being the image of a master mason and not that of Jesus Christ.  Read the history of the shroud that was tracked down along with the many missing years and it's first documented appearance.  Find out the origin of the Temple in Roslyn Scotland.  <br />This book also offers much of the history of the freemasons and the persecution and flight from Jerusalem to Scotland and their spread across the world.  It offers historical and analytical presentations on many subjects involving and surrounding Christianity.  The book was enjoyable as one of many possibilities involving Christianity over the years.  There are many books out there regarding the subject of Christianity's evolution and this should be read as only one of the many.   <br />It goes without saying that this book will offend many.  It will be written off as hogwash by many.  But I believe that any student of Christianity, Religions or Freemasonry should certainly read it.  Read it with an open mind and consider what is presented before passing judgment on the book.	2004-02-22
US	50903541	RJJR3DU853YSE	060980796X	387333628	The Isaiah Effect: Decoding the Lost Science of Prayer and Prophecy	Books	4	18	21	N	Y	Thought Provoking	Greg Braden is a former earth science expert as well as a computer systems designer turned tour guide of sacred and religious sites all over the world. He has written a number of books on similar subjects.<br />The Isaiah effect examines many tenants and religious beliefs throughout man kind's history. Looking at who wrote the Bible, why books were left out and what it meant to the overall understanding of the Bible that the books were not included in the final project. He looks at the Bible with all the books and also looks at Native American, Mayan and Aztec beliefs among many others (to be listed later). How are they similar? The writer will show you.<br />Greg Braden believes we are missing something today. He explains how mass prayer has been proven to work. He discusses quantum physics theories that make many of the ancient prophecies seem plausible. The book spends a good bit of time discussing \\"The Bible Code\\" and the possibilities that it teaches us. The writer also has chapters discussing healing through prayer among many other faith based actions.<br />This book tries to make you think. Common prophecies, common threads in religion, did we all come from one belief? The book also presents a new way to look at time, time travel, dimensions, religions and quantum physics, prayer and prophecy, alternate realities, multiple paralleled universes. Can we bounce back and forth between them? Maybe even without knowing? Are we actually just now starting to learn or relearn what the ancient people knew? If so, why? How do the prophecies from Peru, Tibet, Egypt, Jerusalem and the American Southwest coincide?<br />Many questions are explored in the book. Some answers are given which in turn just raise a few more questions. This is a book that makes you think about many things including how we, as a race, relate to the seen and unseen worlds. If you are in a contemplating mood this is the book for you. If you are interested in the history and contents of religions this has some interest. If you feel something is missing in today's religions, read this book. It will make you think.this has some interest. If you feel something is missing in today's religions, read this book. It will make you think.	2004-02-09
US	50903541	RUQFAR1SJIEN	0060195711	578704382	Return From Heaven: Beloved Relatives Reincarnated Within Your Family	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Thought Provoking	This book examines case histories of reincarnation but not normal reincarnation. Reincarnation within the same family. She interviews parents who are convinced that their child is a reincarnated family member. Why are they convinced? Birth marks on the child that coincide with scares or injuries of the deceased family member. Statements by the children at a young age that they were here before and so and so, whom they never knew. Statements that accurately reflect happenings before their birth that would be unkown to them or even a secret. <br />Statements on miscarraiges and changed thoughts about coming back. Talk about how parents are chosen. yes, this all sounds far out, it all sounds like science fiction. But the studies and the people described and their expereiences do tend to cause a person to think. If you believe in reincarnation this book will be a great read for you with more evidence that it does exist. If you are not sure what you believe you will find this book interesting. If you firmly do not believe you will not be impressed I'm sure. <br />It was an interesting book for me that presented many things to think on. It's a simple read and you can follow it easy. Chapters are broken down by cases and the author explains how they were brought to her attention, what she did to follow through and the information she was provided by the people involved. Not much guess work on her part that I see. <br />Bottom line, if it's your topic, it'll be enjoyable for you, if not, you might want to pass.	2003-11-05
US	50903541	R1N2A29GSI0VQ6	0316803812	95422248	Can't You Hear Me Callin': The Life of Bill Monroe, Father of Bluegrass	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Overall Interesting	Who was Bill Monroe?  Everyone who knows anything about country or bluegrass music knows the name but do you know the man?  Most likely not.  This book sheds light on who he was.  What made the man tick from his childhood and throughout the hardships of his adult life. <br />A fiercly proud man and an extremely hard worker who demanded as much from his band as he did himself.  This book points out the reasons behind many of the stories and the roots of the legends.  It also shows Bill Monroe in all his glory as well as all his shame.  It points out his faults as well as his strengths. Addressing many of the events of his life with candor.  <br />Overall this was a really good book.  If there was one thing keeping me from giving this book five stars it was the fact that the author was found of making statements like &quot;i'm sure Bill must have felt......&quot;.  Of course he had done extensive research but I felt at these points he inflected too much of his own opinion.  Does he really think he knew what Bill Monroe was feeling?  Most of his relatives didn't.  Beyond that, I recommend this book for good reading on the subject of Bill Monroe.  Read it with a few more books on the subject and get a well rounded opinion of this great man.	2003-06-29
US	50903541	R2E4NNUYT4ZDDQ	0446523003	105168950	Emissary of Light: My Adventures With the Secret Peacemakers	Books	4	18	19	N	N	This One Hits Home	Emissary of Light offers a perspective on inner peace and tranquility. It is not a unique view for many who believe that God and peace are within each and every person just looking for a way out. But it is yet another way to explain it. The story of how James came upon this realization or I should say how it was shown to him.  It starts slow but really takes off after the stage is set.  <br />Inexplicably drawn to a conflicted part of the world he met those who try to preserve peace in the world. Not in the way you would normally think but in a spiritual way. By exuding the light of peace through mediation. The lessons on peace, love and life have been heard before but the book drew me in and would not release me for some reason. It was as if I was being told an old lesson in a new way. Is humanity ready for the next step in the evolution of their spirituality? The message of the book is that we are, although I tend to personally doubt that. <br />It speaks to the fact that all religions are man made and speak to the person in a way that they can understand. That it matters not which one you believe in but the fact that you believe in \\"The Divine Light\\". That people only see what they allow themselves to see and if it is Jesus or Buddha or Muhammad it makes no difference because it is the \\"Divine Light\\" behind the teaches of compassion and love that is what it is all about. I know this will not sit well with many people and this alone will turn them away from the book. But I believe there is a lot to be considered here. <br />I believe this book is a very good book that should be read by those interested in spirituality. And even if you don't agree with what is being said the story of the individual and his travels are interesting in themselves. As he explains what he felt and what he thought. It adds a personal dimension to the book that is interesting.	2003-06-08
US	50903541	R1JQH9XMKR4X01	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Frightening	Richard Preston has written yet another frightening book about the possibilities of bioweapons.  About the world we now live in.  This book centers on the testing and attemtped release of a biological agent in New York City.  <br />As the Centers for Disease Control, The FBI and the Military all scramble to identify the virus you see the daunting task that such an operation actually is.  You see the fear and the concern of the experts.  You see that even if you do everything right, it still may go wrong.  <br />This book is frightening because of its realistic possibility today.  It centers around Dr. Alice Austen and her dispatch from the CDC to investigate the event in the early stages.  The story line follows her through the tracking and identification process of the virus.  The description of the effects of the virus are also frightening.  <br />Bottom line, this book is engrossing and reads easy.  The author does a great job and communicating both the impact of the subject he is writing about and the depth of the characters that he is creating.  A very good book.	2003-02-23
US	50903541	R3A4PV5RCDWJ70	0375758216	663135828	Never Die Easy: The Autobiography of Walter Payton	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Man Behind The Player	Everyone knows about Walter Payton, the hall of fame football player.  They know that for years he single handedly carried the Chicago Bears on his back all the while working his way towards becoming the NFLs all time leading rusher.  But the fans could not know the man Walter Payton, the father Walter Payton, the man under the football player. <br />This book is made up of thoughts, feelings and quotes of Payton's closest friends and family members as well as himself.  It is insightful and emotional.  These are people that cared for him deeply and it shows.  Beginning with his childhood and progressing to his death, this book covers a lot.  It was origionally started as his autobiograhpy but unfortunately he passed away before it's completion.  So they added the perspectives of his friends and family, in their own words to round the book out. <br />I remember Walter Payton, the football player, and was a fan.  I now know Watler Payton the man, and must say that I am a fan.  He was an outstanding individual.  Read this book and you will see a refreshing look at a professional athlete and a refreshing look on life and death.  Walter Payton is truly a man to remembered. <br />Bottom line - you can't go wrong with this book.  Read it an enjoy.	2003-02-16
US	50903541	R16I7UY6768XUG	1879181037	228962299	The Woman with the Alabaster Jar: Mary Magdalen and the Holy Grail	Books	3	62	69	N	Y	Yet Another View of Relgion	This was a good book but not great.  It offered some outstanding nuggets of information which presented me with much food for thought.  The idea that Mary Magdalen was actually married to Jesus Christ and the Holy Grail is not a cup or chalice at all but Mary's womb as she carried the &quot;bloodline&quot; of Jesus to Egypt and then to Europe is very interesting.  She backs up this thought by analyzing art of the dark ages and the &quot;understood&quot; meaning behind it.  <br />There was obviously a lot of research that went into this book and I must admit that it was very intriguing.  Yet I could not bring myself to believe most of it.  There seemed to be a lot of leaps made between some of the information.  But I do think there is enough here to warrant some more research on the subject.  It would be tough to find out much of what happened because of the Inquisition and the fact that the Roman-Catholic Church purged most of the records of other religions as they stepped on them throughout time as being heresy.  <br />In short the beginning of the book really pulled me in but from the mid point on I felt that it was a bit reaching in trying to defend the ideas it presented.  But it certainly is a good book to read in combination with other books on the subject.  Just don't make it your first and only one on Christianity.	2003-02-11
US	50903541	R381NBB9UUXKET	0844740500	603508749	The Ethics of Human Cloning	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Insightful	At the time this book was written no one had yet claimed to have cloned a human being and the debate was raging, should science even try?  Many of the pros and cons that are being discussed today were being discussed 4 years ago when this book was written, shortly after Dolly, the cloned sheep was born.  <br />The many impacts of cloning should be contemplated upon openly so people can make up their minds on this touchy subject.  Some of the impacts can not be thought of at this time.  This book covers not only the biological impacts but many of the social impacts that could present themselves.  Should we allow cloning?  Limit it?  Make it illegal totally?  Legal for research?  <br />This is an insightful book that covers both sides of the debate.  I was surprised by some of the conclusions and not by others.  I disagreed with some and agreed with others.  Thought of some points and not others. This is a good start for the debate on human cloning.	2003-01-19
US	50903541	R39WSJRHUH4RAR	1574090941	881240369	The Lusitania: Unravelling the Mysteries	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Good Book But Sometimes......	While I think this was a good book I also think that there was a lot of information presented that had little to do with the Lusitania or the sinking.  I concede that you must persent background information but the entire first half of this book dealth with the rules of the Sea at the time, The British Empire's instructions to merchant ships, Churchill's directives, etc.  I think that this is great information but felt that it might have taken the space of more information that could have been presented on the ships story itself. <br />Missing also, is the German U-Boat side.  What did they think, why did they do it?  There has to be information in German records on this, why were they not consulted when presenting the information in this book? <br />I did enjoy the analystic view of the cargo and if it actually contributed to the sinking.  The clues that were traced in the sipping manifests.  The book also explores the theory that the sinking was actually caused by Churchill's directives to ships at sea, making them enemy combatants in a time of war.  <br />This is a decent book but I think it should be read as one of many on the subject and not taken as the sole source of information.	2003-01-19
US	50903541	R3RUSLLIFU7X7G	0449907600	522185249	Oneness: Great Principles Shared by All Religions	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Very Insightful	Many people say that the world's major religions are similar in many of their teachings and this book shows how so.  With quotes from the religious books of the major religions of the world, side by side, on each individual subject you can see how similar many of the teachings are.  <br />However, I wish the book had been a bit longer.  It's small size and short length make the 109 pages go by very quickly.  The amount of printing in the book is small but the thought that it provokes is great.  The book can easily be read in less than an afternoon but it will be thought on for a much longer time. <br />If you are curious about the world's largest religions and how they are similar, buy this book.  You will be surprised.	2003-01-19
US	50903541	R3END9U7X3F8D1	0142002291	466312032	Arab and Jew: Wounded Spirits in a Promised Land	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Deep, Insightful and Informative	This was an outstanding book.  Over 500 pages packed full of information and insight.  The book goes in depth on the problems in Israel and the Middle East.  Not just the problems that we hear about on TV.  But the people problems.  The author goes to the deep underlying problems.  The people and their customes and beliefs.  Covering the stereo types, the religious differences, their histories.  The book interviews people about their fears.  The author talks to both Arabs and Jews.  He talks to Christians, Muslims and Jews.  He reviews incidents of terrorism on all sides of the conflict.<br />This is a must read book if you are interested in understanding the problems of the Middle East.  Although it is full of information it is not hard to read.  It goes a long way at explaining things.  We all know that the problems in the Middle East are not easy to solve but this book showed me how truly deep the problems run.  The prejudices from all sides are astounding.<br />This is an outstanding piece of writing and research!  Read it and enjoy.	2003-01-06
US	50903541	R17FLF9TY2PM84	047139209X	986944551	Aaron Burr :  Conspiracy to Treason	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Chock Full of Information	Who was Aaron Burr?  Everyone knows that he was Vice President of the United States and the man who killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel.  We all learn this in our high school history class.  What we don't learn in our history class is presented here, in this book, a book that is chock for of information about a man who we are not taught enough about. <br />After the duel with Hamilton, Burr's political worth declined drastically.  He and Jefferson were at odds and his career seemed to be over.  He went west for many reasons and this is the story of what transpired, as best we can tell. Unfortunately Aaron Burr was not survived by much correspondence.  Unlike Jefferson and Adams, the bulk of Burr's letters have never surfaced. <br />Aaron Burr was put on trial for treason.  An unlikely charge against a former Vice President but times were different and Burr's actions at the time left many questions as to what he was actually trying to accomplish.  He was rallying disenters in the land west of the Appalachian Mountains for some reason.  He talked of invading Mexico but there was also other options.  Invading Spanish Florida?  To rein as King over his own country once he helped the western territories rebel against Washington DC and secede from the Union?  We don't know for sure.  <br />We do know that Burr talked to British diplomats trying to get the British Navy to help him by blocking the port of New Orleans.  He tried to get US Military commanders to help him take over the city of New Orleans.  What was it that he was really up to?  While we may never know for sure this book goes an awful long way toward explaining many of the questions that you may have.<br />Filled with many of the outstanding names in history, offering insight into their character as well as their role in defending the United States, or involved in the conspiracy with Burr.  See where they stand.  Cheif Justice John Marshall, future President Andrew Jackson, current President Thomas Jefferson,future President James Madison, Francis Scott Key, Army Generals and Territorial Governors.  In the end, Aaron Burr was found not guilty and faded away into history.  But he left a legacy of hate and confusion. <br />This book was very interesting but at times did read like a history book.  If that is not your cup of tea you may want to think twice.  But th book was very good at explaining the details of Burr's actions.  Where he was at, what he was doing and who he was meeting with.  The book didn't have the flair of \\"Founding Fathers\\" but it is non the less worth the price.  If you are in to history you will love this book.	2003-01-04
US	50903541	R31EOBWUCIOX7P	0743214781	636848454	Is Our Children Learning?: The Case Against George W. Bush	Books	2	14	33	N	Y	One Sided	I rate this book a two star rating which I consider not the worst but below average.  It is a short book that I was able to read in a few hours but it did hold my attention.  The book presents many of the already printed infamous quotes from the President during his campaign. <br />It starts with his priveleged background and the fact that his family's influence kept him out of Vietnam and in the National Guard, which he disappeared from for over a year.  It touches breifly on his failed business ventures.  But it really hits gear when discussing his record as Texas Governor and his Presidential campaign.  <br />His public record is reviewed in the book and it is packed full of information that is note worthy.  The reason I couldn't give this book a higher rating was the fact that it is so obviously partisan.  According to this book Bush is a flat out idiot that never did anything on his own and never did one thing right.  There has to be something out there positive to write about.  This book did not explore both sides.  <br />But it was easy to follow and read well.  For those of you looking for some humor or some background on our President you could add this book on the list to read with others.  But it should not be taken as a lone source of information.	2003-01-04
US	50903541	R3ENQWHUMLBTOI	0385479565	905671096	The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Terrifying and True	The true story of an Ebola outbreak in Virginia.  This is an outstanding book that traces some of the history of the Ebola and Marburg virus's and their emergence in the world, what let up to the outbreak in Virginia and what response the military and Center For Disease Control had.   <br />The writer does a wonderful job painting the characters that were involved in the outbreak in Virginia from the military and the Center for Disease Control.  He shows how the major players scrambled to identify the unkown virus and their reactions when they first realized what they had.  A new strain of Ebola.  Only the fourth type of filovirus, the most dangerous in the world.  Read as they tried to figure out if this virus was airborne or not.  You can feel the impending doom.<br />The book is frightening as it describes the virus's and how they kill.  How they multiply and move among hosts.  This book is not for the faint of heart.  The descriptions are graphic and can turn your stomach if you actually try to imagine the thought of it.  It leaves you with the realizations that a virus on the level of Ebola can spread across the globe in a matter of 24 to 48 hours and within 12 days people will be dying.  People will be dying fast as Ebola kills 90% of the people that become infected.  This book gets you to thinking that the ultimate end of the human race will not be the nuclear bomb, as once feared,  but a virus, a level 4 biohazard.  <br />This book kept me rivetted, I could not put it down.  The fact that it was true made it that much more intense and frightening.  This book should be read by everyone.	2002-12-12
US	50903541	R3P9296WUIYSC5	0385418868	26788304	The Power of Myth	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Interesting	Joseph Campbell explores many themes in this book. What do religions through the ages hvae in common? What symbols are the same and what do they mean? This book discusses these questions as well as what ancient myths and practices have done for humans thoughout history. What have religous practices done to benefit the evolution of the conciousness? What do we feel from inside. <br />Campbell taught mythology for 38 years at a University level. He is very knowledgeable and offers insights into many questions that a soul searcher asks. Why do humans act like they do today? Are we missing something fundamental? What do the myths of ancient history lack now days? Do they enlighten man as they have in the past? Campbell explores the history of these myths and how society has changed to the point where they may have been rendered uselss in our counciousness transformation even though the sybols of ancient mythology are still everywhere today. <br />There is a ton of information in this book and a lot of opinion. But opinion from Campbell in this area seems very stable as he is careful to explain how he formed his opinion and also reluctant to express guesses when there is no basis. I think this is enlightening. <br />On the down side this book seemed hard for me to follow at times because of the question and answer format. At times, I had to reread to find out who was talking. I think the interviewer, Bill Moyer, expressed as much opinion and dialogue as he did pose questions in parts of the book. I would have preferred a straight ahead book with a different set up but this is what we received and I still think that it is a book to be read by anyone interested in Philosophy or mythology.	2002-12-08
US	50903541	R2MAHUEP8XCZQH	0813122171	354222913	Blood on the Moon: The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	In depth	This book is the story of the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. Not the assassination that they teach in the history books but a much more in depth view of the conspirators that were involved. Most people don't know that the Federal Government actually arrested ten people for the conspiracy and assassination and hung four along with killing John Wilkes Booth during the man hunt. The conspirators were tried by a military tribunal and not in civilian courts. <br />This book goes very in depth at the contacts and relationships that these conspirators had. The countryside is discussed as well as events leading up to and after the shooting. It talks of previous plots of the Confederacy to kidnap Lincoln and of the Federals to kidnap Jefferson Davis. The book did, at times, read a little like a history book. So much detail that it seemed to drag in spots but only for short periods before it revived itself. <br />This is a very good book that students of history will love. That Civil War buffs will enjoy also. It is more of a book for high schoolers and up as at times it is tedious because it has so much information to process. Overall, I enjoyed it greatly. But then again, I love history. Check it out, see what you think.	2002-12-06
US	50903541	R1Q8Y5NPDQ91UN	1585090182	149852180	The World's Sixteen Crucified Saviors: Or Christianity Before Christ	Books	4	36	40	N	N	Thought Provoking	A very interesting book from a historical and a religions perspective. But let me warn you, this book is not for everyone. The book looks at the 16 religious saviors that were crucified in their persepctive religions, all before the advent of Christianity. There are many chapters covering the similarities of the different religions and their saviors. <br />One of the most intriguing chapters is the one comparing the Hindoo savior Krishna's similarities with Jesus. The chapter lists 346 similarities from the teachings of the perspective religions as written in the Bible and the Baghavat Gita (Hindoo Bible). It is quite startling, considering Krishna lived thousands of years before Jesus. <br />The book is more or less a basher of Christianity, not the faith itself but the belief that Jesus was the only savior ever to come to earth based on the writings in the Bible. It shows that other religious writing previous to the Bible in other religions listed their own crucified saviors. Kind of a religious mans &quot;Age of Reason&quot; if you will. <br />The book is interesting but seems to lack some proof in a few areas when listing older saviors. But he also lists sources and historical documents for many of them. I feel he would have been better off listing 10 or 12 instead of 16. But overall it is worth the read for anyone with an open mind or who is curious about ancient religions. I have read both better and worse but this book is not a waste of time.	2002-11-27
US	50903541	R1XBMZ36SIA7AD	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	4	45	49	N	Y	Not Quite What I Expected	This book was not quite what I thought it would be however it was still very good. I was hoping for a printing of the Gnostic Gospels themselves. But what I got was a study of The Gnostic Religion versus the Roman Catholic Church and other orthodox Christian sects. Offering compelling information on the differences of their beliefs in the writings of The New Testament. <br />The book also explains what Gnosis is, is God male or female? Is there more than one God, proven in the Bible? It talks of how the two Christian Churches were formed in the beginning and how and why the present version won out. Also of interest is a chapter on the Christians suffering under the Roman Empire. <br />This book was thought provoking and kept my interest throughout. It touched on a lot of subjects for such a short project. While I don't think this book should be considered the final word on any debate about Christianity or the Gnostic Religion I believe that it certainly should be on any list when it comes to understanding Gnostics. <br />Read with an open mind and this book will lead you down paths you had not considered. Explain an alternate way to read some of the versus in the Bible. Talk of recently found teachings from the days of Jesus and before. Don't miss this one.	2002-11-18
US	50903541	R32HD3CHOIB1A8	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	5	51	54	N	Y	Frightening	Richard Preston has written a frightening book.  Starting and ending with the Anthrax attacks on the United States.  Preston has talked to many of the top bioweapons engineers in the world and his research shows in this outstanding book.  Full of information from accross the world.  The history of Smallpox, the eradication effort by the World Health Organization.  The background on Anthrax. Side stories to Ebola.  The most dangerous virus's in the world are addressed in this book.  <br />The book examines the threat of Smallpox and explains why most people in the know about infectious disease's still consider it the worst the world has ever seen, even worse than plague.  The book touches on Biopreparat (for a more in depth look read Biohazard by Ken Alibek) and the Russian stockpiles of Smallpox that they have weaponized and put into missiles to attack other countries.    The CDC, Center for Disease Control and Prevention, in Atlanta still holds over 450 different strains of Smallpox.  <br />The book goes on to explain how many countries have Smallpox and this is not a little known fact.  How genetic engineering could easily make Smallpox harder to contain than it already is.  In today's world travel a Smallpox outbreak would mean hundreds of thousands of deaths and it would shut down international trade.  it would bring the world to its knees.  With 25 million people living within a couple hours travel of one another an outbreak in a third world county could show up in the United States in a few days.  And this is not taking into account the possibility of a direct bioweapons attack on the United States.  Before it was diagnosed, it would be spread around the world by air travel.  <br />This book is well written, reads easily, is full of information and very thought provoking.  It was so engrossing that I started ready one night and did not want to put it down.  I finished it the next afternoon.  For a better understanding of what the world is facing today you should read this book.  Smallpox is just as dangerous, if not more dangerous, than a nuclear war.  Nuclear devastation is confined to the area of the bomb.  Smallpox would travel person to person throughout the world.  In a word, the information in this book is, frightening.	2002-11-12
US	50903541	R3RMYZ6JTW10GO	0439280680	611242480	Sacajawea (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Enjoyable	Sacajawea was the Indian teen that acted as guide and translator to Louis and Clark's expedition across the north-western territory that would soon become part of the United States with the Louisianna Purchase. Read about Sacajawea's early years, how she was pledged in marriage as a child. Stolen by a raiding party when only eleven and subsequently lost to a traveler while the new tribe was gambling with her. Married soon there after and giving birth all before the age of sixteen. And the interesting part of her life was yet to come. <br />The book also covers the expedition and its encounters while exploring the new land and the many Indian tribes the met. It is told in alternating view points of Sacajawea and Captain Clark. Their views on the happenings around them are very interesting. It is apparent how time and time again Sacajawea, or Janey as the expetition named her, was indespensible. Read between the lines to see the bond that formed between Sacajawea and Captain Clark. <br />This is an outstanding book that I recommend to adults as well as teens. Very informative and easy to read. The chapters were short and it was interesting how they altered from one view to the other and back.	2002-11-10
US	50903541	RCQSM2J1EFKY3	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Bringing History Alive	This book offers outstanding insight into the events and personalities that shaped our government and led it through its infancy. If you don't like history you could still enjoy this book. If you think politics today is nasty, it probably doesn't hold a candle to what it was during the early years of our nation. Today candidates, as a rule, will say what they think will get them elected. This book shows that in the late 1700s politicians believed, intensly, what they spoke. They admit to despising each other and hating everything another stood for. They battled each other in news papers and pamphlets, in town halls and held convictions strong enough to duel to the death to defend their positions. <br />This book covers the most famous duel in American history between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton. What led up to it, what were the repercussions for both parties and their legacy. It gets into the mostly unkown debates on slavery in Congress as early as 1790, who thought what, said what, and acted how. It talks of our first national elections. The book talks about the Washington and Adams administrations. The friendships and the hatreds of the many smart, strong willed people. Fairly in depth chapters on Alexander Hamilton, Arron Burr, James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington and John Adams. Tid-bits and thoughts about Ben Franklin, John Jay and James Monroe. These men where the founding fathers of our country politically. The book address's exactly how much influence Abigail Adams had on her husband. <br />This is an exceptional book that I recommend to those who like history or those that want to know more about this time in history. It goes beyond the simple events and delves into the personalities of those invovled. What drove them. It is inriguing and leaves you wanted to read more on the subject.  It was very easy to read and follow.  You can't go wrong with it.	2002-11-07
US	50903541	R2JHUN4DVD77BX	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Truly Insightful	I approached this book with great curiosity. Malcolm X has a legend that everyone knows but I truly didn't know much about the facts behind the legend.<br />I found that he had a troubled childhood and lived many different lives in his one short life. A hustler, a drug dealer, an armed robber, a bootlegger, a woman beater, a drug addict, a convict, a preacher, an 8th grade dropout, a leader of men, and a world traveler. His ideas were very harsh. He spoke of the \\"white devils\\" and believed that blacks and whites should live seperately but for most of his young life wanted to be with white women, and had white girlfriends. He was befriended and helped by white people in his youth as well as hurt by them. The amount of trouble this man had seen before the age of 21 is equaled only by the amount of controversy he saw after his conversion to Islam.<br />He saw Islam and it's leader in the United States, Elijah Mohammed as the savior of his life. The true religion of the black man. He seems to have been single handedly the most responsible for the growth of the religion in the United States in the 1950s. He criss crossed the country opening new temples, sometimes going from East to West coast three of four times a week. He did all this in the name of Islam, with an oath of poverty. At the time of his death he left his pregnant wife and four young children with no savings, no checking, no credit, no insurance and no hope for security in the future. To him Islam meant more than his family.<br />This book offers true insight into the man and his thinking. The reasons behind his actions. While I found myself upset many times by his thinking I had to read on to see why he thought that way. It was interesting to see his revelations after his Holy trip to Mecca and how it refined his thinking on blacks, whites and religion. This is a very good book that should be read by many both black and white. I think it sheds light on a previous generation more so than the religion of Islam. I had to keep reminding myself that things have changed in the United States so much in the last 50 years that it is impossible for me to truly understand the deep problems of racial division that were present in Malcom's time.	2002-11-03
US	50903541	RSRGGQ6D6UJF6	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Another View	In America we are never shown the human side or the after affects of the Atomic Bomb.  We are only told that it ended the war and saved countless American soldiers lives.<br />This book sheds some light on the human side and the Japanese view of what happened.  The fact that nearly 100,000 people had been killed or doomed in one blow and 100,000 more injured in a city of 245,000 is something to contemplate in itself.  The human tragedy is explored a bit in this book.  The wounds, the eybrows burned off, the eyes melted out of their sockets, skin hanging from faces and hands.  Vomiting and burn patterns on bodies.  It can be a bit gruesome but it is important to know the devestation that this bomb brought.  The after effects of radiation poisoning and the lifelong health problems of many of the survivors are explored.  The increased rates in cancer and luekemia are discussed. <br />This is an eye opening book that tells the story of 6 different survivors.  The horrors in the aftermath of the Atomic explosion.  The human side, the emotions, the injuries, the recovery and rebuilding.  Told through the eyes of normal everyday people.  The story is engrossing.  <br />I highly recommend this book be read by many.  Although I think they should read others on the subject as well to see the entire picture.  This book covers the human perspective but not the political or military perspective.  A very interesting read.	2002-10-31
US	50903541	R1FU092HTX2SQA	0938294385	721374966	Incredible Technologies Of The New World Order; UFOs - Tesla - Area 51	Books	2	17	19	N	Y	who really knows?	I must say that I found most of this book a little far fetched for my belief system.  Actually a lot far fetched.  I can't comprehend Germans on the moon in 1944 nor Nazi bases under Antarctica.  Nazi super cities in South America?  Nazi contact with Aliens in the late 1800s?  Where there Nazi's in the late 1800s?  Guess I'll have to find that out first.  <br />But some of the theories could be true.  Many have speculated about the one world government takeover that may or may not be coming true as things evolve.  The theories on gun control are interesting.  <br />While I can't completely ignore everything in this book I beleive that most of it is quite a stretch.  Pure fiction.  The sources he sights are others who write about the same thing.  Everytime you might think he is going to offer some concrete proof he hides behind the old \\"if I tell you who I am I will die\\" line.  However, I found the chapter on Tesla quite interesting.  And many of his statements in the chapter have been verified.  So, is the entire book true since one chapter seems more verifiable?  This is why I could not give it a one star rating.  There seems to be some truth in this book.  The problem becomes figuring out where it is.	2002-10-23
US	50903541	R27BCX74E08GZK	0385334966	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Gripping and Chilling	Kanatjan Alibekov was in charge of Biopreparat, the Soviet Union's bioweapons factories.  The Soviet's system that produced and stored the largest biological weapons stock pile the world has ever known.  He had massive stockpiles of Anthrax, Plague, Smallpox, Marburg, Ebola and too many others to list under his supervision.  He had a list of first strike areas including New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Seattle.  <br />His story is engrossing.  The health effects that he has suffered because of his work are amazing.  He has lost all sense of smell and can't eat butter, cheese, eggs, mayonaise, sausages, chocolate or candy.  He takes two or three pills of allergy medicine a day minimum.  He must rub ointment on his skin because the natural lubricants have been lost.  The numerous vacinations he had to take over the years for work with infectious disease's has caused many complications with his health.<br />This is his story as well as the story of the Soviet government and their deceipt of the world as well as their deceipt of their own citizens.  Brainwashing younger generations to believe that the United States would stop at nothing to destroy them.  This book is truly engrossing.  Kanatjan Alibekov defected to the United States and changed his name to ken Alibek and began helping the United States with information to combat the massive Soviet stockpiles.  And his information has proven to the United States how far we are behind but then again, we didn't break the treaty against production of bioweapons.  Many of the scientists also fled to Iraq and Iran and continued production there.  <br />This book is balanced and informative as well as interesting.  It is a bit unnerving but also fascinating.  A must read for anyone.	2002-10-22
US	50903541	R3W2457Y97PLO0	0684873869	679898926	Saddam's Bombmaker: The Terrifying Inside Story of the Iraqi Nuclear and Biological Weapons Agenda	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Almost Seems Unreal	This book reads like a spy novel.  But Dr. Hamsa's story is very important.  The chief of Saddam's nuclear bomb project his story is fantastic.  From his own rough childhood as one of 14 children, 9 that died before the age of 1 year and the last birth killing his mother during the process.  Life was clearly hard in Iraq.  With his education in the United States at MIT and in Florida he was recruite to build a nuclear bomb, from scratch, for Iraq.    <br />This is a great insight into life in Iraq for the regular folks and the priveledged.  Dr. Hamza was one of the priveledged, living within the walls of the Presidential Palace.  The conditions the Iraqi's live in are unbelievable.  <br />Dr. Hamza's story of how easy it is to buy the parts and machines needed to build a bomb are frightening.  From countries that supposedly are watching Iraq.  The United States, Great Britain, France, Russia.  The list goes on.<br />Dr. Hamza's tale of his escape from Iraq is also devastating to those that think the United States government and the CIA are on top of things.  The apparently didn't know who Dr. Hamza was and when he tried to explain they laughed at him.  What kind of information did they actually have on the goings on inside Iraq? <br />Dr. Hamza's story is a must read for anyone interested in current events or history, as we are living history now.  His opinions are insightful and offered as one who has lived in Iraq, under Saddam and his opinions should be considered.  Read this book.  It is an important book and is very interesting.	2002-10-14
US	50903541	R3EZQ623F54BO8	006000794X	255659204	Ruby Ridge: The Truth and Tragedy of the Randy Weaver Family	Books	5	60	65	N	Y	Disturbing and Important	The book is both disturbing and important.  It traces the tragedy of Ruby Ridge, Idaho from the very beginning, even before Idaho.  It profiles Randy and Vicki Weaver when they first meant and follows through their marriage, their children and their move to Idaho.  It explores their different beliefs in depth and both their problems and triumphs throughout their marriage. <br />It explains how the U.S. Marshall Service and the ATF first noticed Randy Weaver and why they were interested in him.  Did they initially set him up?  It explains what the reaction of the FBI was when they were called to the scene.  How the government agencies invovled escalated the problem to a new level.  How the lack of communication within the government made a bad situation worse.  <br />It follows the aftermath of the seige and the shootings into the evidence gathering stage and through the trial.  It follows the survivors and what they have become, their tribulations.  <br />This is a very important book for everyone to read.  It is about lack of tolerance in others beliefs.  About the governments miscommunications and lack of sharing information between departments.  This has been going on for years, way before 9-11.  It delves into the fact that government agencies don't like to admit they were wrong and will sacrifice the little guy to protect the big guy.  It show that there is hard working decent people working for the government as well as complete self serving, intolerant, career mongers looking for nothing but advancement and the connections to insulate themselves from the decisions they've made. <br />Randy Weaver and his family thought differently than many.  They wanted to be left alone.  And they were pushed and pushed to the breaking point.  Attacked and surrounded and attacked again.  The Weaver's paid the price for their beliefs but the government agents that overstepped their bounds have never been brought to justice or even held accountable with more than meager 15 daysuspensions.  The courts felt the government wrong enough to award a monetary settlement to the Weaver's.  When will the total truth come out?  <br />This is an excellent book full of information and presented well.  It is engrossing and pulls you in from the beginning.  It reads well.  I recommend it to everyone.	2002-10-13
US	50903541	R1OEJP1S9H35Y4	0767903323	452949371	Buddhism Plain and Simple: The Practice of Being Aware, Right Now, Every Day	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Good Start	This is the first book I have read on Buddhism and I must admit that it was very enlightening.  Steve Hagen, the author, is a zen priest and teacher.  His insights into Buddhism are revealing and he presents them in a way that's easily understood.  How do you perceive reality is a question that is explored here among others.  This book elves into many subject involved in Buddhism and self enlightenment.  It offers a short history of the Buddha himself.  The author gives us a short, yet information packed book.  A very good introduction from my perspective.	2002-10-06
US	50903541	R2WZSFHDCA6QSD	0316759805	56074509	The Coming Race War in America: A Wake Up Call	Books	1	52	61	N	N	A Waste Of Time	The opening lines of Carl Rowen's book state that the United States is \\"on the rocks spiritually, morally, racially and economically.\\"  The author goes on to smash everyone he deems responsible for this and the plight of the black man today.<br />I found this book very harsh and full of thoughts and ideas that, to me, seem very rash and extreme.  Although he does quip that Farrakhan, Sharpton and Jackson are part of the problems blacks now face he reserves his harshest criticism for whites.  Whites in power and white men in gerneral.  He launches scathing attacks on former President's Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan and Bush.  Be blasts Pat Buchannon and Oliver North.  He calls G. Gordon Liddy a \\"troglodyte\\".  He says Newt Gingrich is full of \\"self righteous hypocrisy\\".  He accuses the federal court system of having \\"surrendered to racist mob psychology\\" for rulling against affirmative action in University's.<br />The author also makes the statement that blacks do commit a disproportionate number of the violent crimes in America.  Most of the crimes committed by blacks are committed against blacks.  He then goes on to talk about the fact that over 50% of prisoners in the penal system are black and that shows we still live in a racist society.  I don't follow the logic.  If more blacks are committing violent crimes, wouldn't it follow that more blacks would be in jail?  I don't see how that is racist.<br />He points to Susan Smith who killed her children by drowning them in the car by driving into a lake.  Her initial police report said that a black man had hijacked her Mazda and driven off with her two young sons in it.  He points to the fact that these incidents add to racial polarization and hatred and are bitter reminders of the stereotyping of all black males as potential kidnappers, rapists and killers and warps the minds of white people.  I don't know Susan Smith but obviously she is not a typical well thinking person.  And I don't think her statement went toward warping any white folks minds.  If you would approach the average person on the street they would probably remember the case.  How many of them, do you think, would remember the initial report accusing an unidentified black man?  The percentage would be very very small I am sure.<br />He tries to defend inner city cime in a way.  First, when Jesse Jackson stated \\"There is nothing more painful to me at this stage in my life than to walk down the street and hear footsteps and start thinking about robbery, then to look around and see somebody white and feel relieved.\\"  While I would not agree with this statement and the author obviously does not I would not say that Jackson surely must have been embarrassed by his statement, as the author did.  Maybe Jackson truly feels this way, why would he be embarrassed?  And why would the author of this book feel he can speak on another person feelings?  The aurthor says that the poor black teenagers do covet the $150 sneakers and the $400 boom box but when they lack any honorable recourse to get it, who's surprised that blacks maim and murder for big bucks?  Is the author serious here?  Is he defending murdering someone if you can't afford what you want?  Is he not adding to the black sterotype himself with statements like these?<br />With in the pages of this book the author continually tells me that he knows, as a black man, how white men feel.  How could he?  Just as I'm sure he would agree no white men can truly understand many of the feelings of black men in society.  For instance he states on page 104, \\"I know how painful it is for a white man to get a female supervisor, and how a 'twofer' - a black woman boss - puts a strain on his manhood.\\"  What is he talking about?  Why is it painful for a white man to have a women boss, of any color?  Who is he to speak for me?  I have a women boss and it is not a strain on my manhood.  Is it different if a black man has a white woman boss?  He certainly did not address this situationat all.<br />In my opinion the author is constantly trashing the white male and defending the black race without looking objectively.  I believe that this book serves no purpose except to fan the flames of racism.  From all sides.  Don't waste your money on this one.at all.<br />In my opinion the author is constantly trashing the white male and defending the black race without looking objectively.  I believe that this book serves no purpose except to fan the flames of racism.  From all sides.  Don't waste your money on this one.	2002-10-06
US	50903541	R30ODNNLE9LVEV	0451205952	503982230	The Source: Journey Through the Unexplained	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Lots of Ideas	This book covers a lot of ground including the mysteries of human origins.  Was man actually around with the dinosours?  If not, why are their paintings of such found in caves?  Could earth actually be a giant prison colony?  Were humans genetically engineered as a \\"worker\\" race for extra terrestrials?  Has there actually been more than one species of human beings on earth?  Although this book offers a lot of ideas that should warrant thought it offers little proof behind them.  But ideas should always be considered.  Most statements that are offered as fact can not be followed up and verified easily.  The authors offer no dates, towns, or books of reference on many of the things they present.  But again, give them fair contemplation.<br />What of the Apkallu?  or Oannes?  Teachers of the ancient mesopotamian civilization, who were they, where did they come from?  Were there prehistoric nuclear blasts?  Some evidence is offered, or deduced is a better word. <br />Were Eisenhour & Churchill worried about an alien invasion of earth?  Are alien races at conflict over the control of the future of earth?  Are aliens demonic in nature?  Will calling for the help of Jesus thwart an alien abduction?  Are we experiencing the battle of good and evil?  Demons and angels battling for our soul?  The list of ideas in this book range far and wide.  <br />Could alien sightings be caused by electromagnetic field variations and their perceptions by the temporal lobes of the human brain?  Are their alien bases on the moon?  How do some major religions compare in their beliefs of the end times?  See many, many faulty predictions.  And the age old question of what is time?<br />This book is very interesting but I don't feel really \\"teaches\\" you much.  But it is thought provoking and it does force you to \\"think\\".  It encourages you to contemplate the possibilities of what is being presented.  You should read this book among many other books on the subject/subjects presented.  This book can be a good starting place for many paranormal thoughts and ideas of the unexplained that we face today.  The more we know, the less we understand.  This book address's what we think we may know and what we probably don't understand.	2002-10-05
US	50903541	R153KKRANWLXQV	0963215809	743678423	The Franklin Cover-up: Child Abuse, Satanism, and Murder in Nebraska	Books	5	179	193	N	Y	Scary	This book is quite shocking in many ways.  The allegations of child abuse, money laundering, drug running and official governmental cover-ups both big and small.  The Iran-Contra affair and CIA mind control.  How do they all play in this midwestern state?  Read this book to find out.  <br />If it's true it is totally shocking.  And how can it not be true?  While the allegations many times appear outlandish the writer names names and points fingers at very powerful individuals.  Why has no one filed law suits for slander if these allegations are not true?  That brings is back around to the unbelievable thought that these allegations are true.  <br />A groundbreaking book that sometimes seems to go off on tangents but all the while is a very important read.  Witness the power of the government in ways that most people don't realize exists, the sordid underbelly.  Outstanding.	2002-09-17
US	50903541	RH9WP2PV4KU70	0743233425	970539402	Sacred Rage: The Wrath of Militant Islam	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Recent History	Sacred Rage covers mostly recent history in the Middle east, from the 1980s forward.  But this is the time period of the rise of militant Islam which this book seeks to address.  It covers most of the Islamic countries, their leaders and their dissidents.  <br />The book talks of the many terrorists attacks and their reasons, the perpetrators and the affects.  Has the U.S. position in the Middle East hurt our standing?  What has our military done in the Middle East in the last 20 years?  How did the U.S. Governments miscalculations hurt us in Islamic eyes?  What has Iran's role in world terrorism been?  What are the differences between Shia and Sunni Muslims?  Why do the Middle Eastern countries and people hate the west so much?  For some insights and answers to these and many more questions, read this book. <br />This book goes a long way to explaining the many questions just asked.  It explores the sometimes strained relations among the countries of the Middle East with each other.  How do Iran, Iraq and Saudi Arabia get along?  This book is insightful and provocative.  I recommend it as a start to understanding what has been happening in our world in the last quarter of a century.  <br />This book is a good starting place.	2002-08-26
US	50903541	RKJQXT4V8S78P	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	106	156	N	N	Sean's Views On Everything	Sean Hannity is a 100% pure Republican conservative and proud of it, make no mistake.  He weaves his way through many subjects in this book but the constant denominator is his view of the despised liberal left.  Throughout the almost 300 pages he only mentioned one good thing about a Democrat and only one bad thing about a Republican. <br />But his views are interesting.  If you look past his disdain for the left he makes sense on most things.  In the very beginning of the book he professes his beliefs in the Military, his faith, his family and the flag of the United States.  He expresses his views on a wide variety of subjects including education, slavery, Joe Clark, nukes, abortion, drilling for oil in Alaska, energy independence, taxes, Ronald Reagan, Newt Gingrich, CNN, Ted Turner, Al Gore, Bill Clinton, Fox News Channel, Rush Limbaugh, freedom and responsibility, the Contras, Oliver North, God, America and raising children.  He consistently blasts the Democratic leaders in Congress but offers the facts for his conclusions.  He talks of the terrorists threats we now face as well as the CIA both past and present.  He talks of his love of New York City and the people there (where he is a talk radio host on the coveted afternoon \\"drive time\\" slot).  <br />Make no mistake, this is a conservative book, written by a conservative man.  But Sean Hannity is an intelligent man with strong beliefs based on his vast knowledge gathered by his position as both a talk radio host and a leader of the Hannity and Colmes television show on Fox News Channel.  <br />This is a very good book for all to read.  For the Democrats so they can see why they are despised by the right.  For the Republicans so they can rally around their view points.  For the student of politics or recent history for the unique perpectives from an intelligent man with deep knowledge of what has been going on in the United States and the world.  A classic already.	2002-08-23
US	50903541	R1H66DOS5KFSXI	1557883084	566433758	Stock Cars!histhp1308	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Good Overall History	Although a few years old this is a very comprehensive book covering many aspects of the history of NASCAR.  While it tends to lean heavily on the cars, the models and the horsepower, it also covers the tracks, the drivers and offers many little tidbits.  Although not statistics driven it also offers track lengths, banking degrees, lap records and average race speed records of each track.  As well as a list of NASCAR championship points winners from 1949 to 1998.  It lists the all time winston cup race winners and the all time winston cup pole winners from the same periods. <br />This book is easy to read and would also be enjoyed by the younger fans, say 10 and up.  It has a lot of pictures of the cars throughout the years.  Good for newer fans to see what they looked like and older fans to remember back when they could tell the cars apart.  There is also a small biography section in the back of the book detailing some of the best drivers in history. <br />If you are a hardcore fan of NASCAR this would be a great overview.  If you are new to the sport this book is a great starting place, chock full of information.  Buy it and enjoy it.	2002-08-20
US	50903541	R3EF3HKQSZ84FC	1586480391	717815776	The Greatest Threat: Iraq, Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the Crisis of Global Security	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Take Notice	This is a very good book by Richard Butler.  Who is Richard Butler?  He is an Australian diplomat who has been in the nuclear disarmament field for decades and was the Australian ambassador to the United Nations.  Richard Butler was appointed the head of UNSCOM, which was the United Nations' body set up to oversee the Iraqi dissarmament of weapons of mass detruction after the Gulf War.  If anyone should know what the world faces from Iraq, Richard Butler is the man and his story needs to be heard.<br />His views on Iraq are frightening and his information on the United Nations as a body and some of the countries that belong to it are disheartening.  Throughout the book Butler explains why Iraqi leadership actually thinks they won the Gulf War.  He explains how the United Nations waffled on enforcing the rules that they had instituted.  His take on Kofi Annan and the politicians that made it easier for Iraq to evade the international laws passed by the U.N.<br />Is Iraq still harboring weapons of mass destruction?  I think that is a foregone conclusion.  Iraq has lied, cheated, broken treaties and evaded international law.  Saddam has succeeded in stonewalling international monitoring.  <br />Would Iraq use such weapons once they gather enough?  I think the judgement on that is also already concluded.  Saddam and Hitler where the only two people in history to use chemicals for genocidal purposes.  Saddam already proved he would when he used them on the Iranian soldiers in the Iran-Iraq war, on the Iranian POWs (testified to by Iraqi defectors) and on the Kurds - citizens of his own country.  Saddam showed once again his sinister side in 1991, shortly before the Gulf War, when he dispatched hit squads around the world to take out \\"coalition\\" diplomats.  <br />Richard Butler's words should be read, his thoughts and insights should be considered.  The book needs to be recognized by those in power before it is too late.	2002-08-19
US	50903541	R122MPITJIQJAJ	089804801X	958914217	Fart Proudly: Writings of Benjamin Franklin You Never Read in School	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Why Don't They Teach This Side of Ben in School?	This is a good book to go along with all the policitcally correct studies of Mr. Franklin in our public schools.  This is the more controversial side, the cantankerous side, the mischievous side of our great American patriot.  <br />Mr. Franklin's writings on choosing a mistress are both funny and eye opening.  His letter to those holding a scientific competition asking that they find a way to improve the smell of 'human wind' is absolutely hilarious.  His perceptions on what happens when you try to please everyone are very insightful but seldom taught.  <br />Mr. Franklin's article that tears down the actions of the free press of his day are also relevant today.  He was a great believer in freedom of speach but a watch dog of press.  <br />Although this book is short, it is worth the read.  We should be teaching our children the entire Ben Franklin (as we should with all historical figures) not just the politically correct view  that we now teach to them.  Read this book, decide for yourself.	2002-08-18
US	50903541	R1BZ51IVTBEX9L	0806505494	324371027	The Age Of Reason	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Think About It!	When reading the Bible, read it in a literal and logical manner.  Taking each sentence of the word of God to be gospel and you will probably come to the same questions and conclusions that Thomas Paine, the author did in 1794.<br />Make no mistake, this book will not be enjoyed by many.  It is an attack on Christianity and the Bible but not an attack on God, which the author professes a belief in.<br />Chapter after chapter breaks down the different books of the Bible and disects their words.  How do they contradict themselves and each other?  Can we prove or disprove that the books of the Bible were written by those who they are attributed?  Read this book to find out.<br />This book is for the person who can think for themselves and not accept everything that is spoon fed to them.  I highly recommend it for those that can stomach a thought that might be different from what the masses believe.  For those who like to analize and ponder.  For those who have questions on religion and not faith.  Read this book and enjoy it.	2002-08-17
US	50903541	RP8MT8BG1W5YK	0345409469	137607328	The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Question Things - Be Skeptical	In this outstanding book Carl Sagan seems to be saying that everyone needs to be skeptical today.  That we should all be questioning what many people put forth as truth.  Mr. Sagan takes on many subjects here, offering us scientific and common sense thoughts on a variety of subjects.  He provides counter-points to the many points that we have been fed by the media for years.  He researched many subjects. Are there scientific reasons or actual proof concerning alien abductions, flying saucers, crop circles, Atlantis, continental drift, plate tectonics.  He takes on the history and beliefs in witches, satanic ritual abuses, faith healers and the like.  He puts forth info on nuclear winter, his take on education, public school systems, programmed TV, the media and the Church.  What an all encompassing book.  <br />The common theme throughout it all seems to be the common person's willingness to believe what others have presented as truth and their unwillingness to think for themselves.  He argues that we need a new generation of thinkers.  That science and math should be taught with more vigor.  That television could play an important role but is driven by something else. <br />Read this book, think for yourself, and enjoy - it is a very good book.	2002-08-13
US	50903541	R19NVDTBDKU77U	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A Unique Perspective	What a fabulous book.  Written by an immigrant and naturalized American this book offers a uniqe perspective on what makes America so great.  And he hits so many things right on the head that many natural born citizens don't seem to comprehend.  <br />Dinesh (the author) touches on so many issues and perspectives but you must read them to get the jist of what he is talking about.  He hits the nail on the head so often.  When talking about the perspective of the Arabs on the United States as to what we think of them, &quot;camel jockeys&quot; ect.  He is right in many ways.  When he talks of how we should respond to the 9-11 attacks he speaks from a middle-eastern perspective (he is from India).  He talks of slavery and the African-American perspective and also speaks of the confrontations he has had with Jesse Jackson and their conflicting perspectives.  That of a new immigrant as opposed to a supposedly down-trodden minority.  <br />This is a very important and informative book.  Although many may not like it or consider in controversial or even too patriotic in its view I feel that it should be read by every American and immigrant.  If only more Americans would have the overall view of this immigrant and naturalized American perhaps we would understand ourselves better.  A GREAT BOOK!  Buy it, read it and think on it.  More folks like Dinesh D'Souza in the United States would make it a better country.  He is intelligent, insightfull and patriotic!	2002-07-23
US	50903541	RZPG7B15AWR3J	0922356807	463392805	The Immaculate Deception: Bush Crime Family Exposed	Books	4	192	212	N	Y	A Very Heavy Book	There is a TON of information packed into these 200 pages.  Event after event, lie after lie, flip flop after flip flop, covert actions after covert action, and lie after lie, this book weighs in on Bush's historical record. <br />Is Bush to blame for the escalation of the drug trade?  Read this book for some info on the subject.  Read how he hid deals and ownerships of companies that he knew violated Mexican laws.  How he supported Saddam Hussien, how he partnered with Hussein and Saudi Arabia to keep oil prices high so his family could make more money.  How he was involved with the CIA (although he denied it) back in the late 50s and early 60s.  What does he know about the Kennedy assassination?  He gave a briefy the day after to government officials.  He denied being in the Iran-contra loop but he set up the connections for it. He continued to pay Noriega over $100,000 a year while Noriega was stealing U.S. intelligence and running drugs to the United States with CIA cover.  <br />What was his role in the delaying of the Iran Hostages release?  A national black mark that folks have not heard enough of. He gave Hussein the go-ahead to invade Kuwait and then attacked him.   How he had to be ordered by the Supreme Court to stop lobbying the IRS on behalf of drug companies when he was VP.<br />The list goes on and on and on and one.  Read this book and have your eyes opened.  It will entice you to read more on the sad subject of the life or priveledge and abuse of power.  And everyone thought Clinton was the worst, when the facts come out on Bush it would be hard to decide who was the worst.	2002-07-21
US	50903541	R3VQEVAKB63PO5	0963906208	874073397	Kill Zone: A Sniper Looks at Dealey Plaza	Books	4	79	83	N	Y	Not What I Expected - Even Better	I bought this book expecting yet another perspective on the Kennedy assaination, that of a sniper.  While I got some of that I got much more.<br />It begins with some sniper insight (the author was a military sniper) and proceeds on to the normal discrepancies with the Kennedy autopsy and the many unanswered questions we have heard in many books before.  But amidst all this is some interesting insight that is offered by the author, gained through his military experience and his former job of working on airplanes, the same kind that Air Force One (at the time) was converted from - the Boeing 707. With this information and with information obtained from Carlos Hatchock (who wrote his own excellent book titled \\"Marine Sniper, 93 Confirmed Kills) he explains the impossibility of the lone gunman theory.<br />He explains in detail the many enemies that Kennedy made during his administration, The Mafia, The Military, The Cubans, The CIA, The Council on Foreign Relations, The FBI, Lyndon Johnson, the list sometimes seems endless.<br />The book does take off into unexpected territory by progressing to areas such as MACV in Vietnam, Harry Truman, the assination of Abraham Lincoln, James Monroe, John D. Rockefeller, JP Morgan, Howard Hughes, Watergate and much more.  But it is all tied together in the end with the final assumption of who killed JFK - and it is very believable.  Every conspiracy book on the subject presents itself in ways to be believed by the readers.  But this book touches on one point and presents it in clear and concise way that none of the other books I have read can.  It answers the question, \\"Who could pull off a conspiracy of this magnitude and have enough power and influence to cover it up for 40 years, even though every free thinking individual would know it was a consipiracy?\\"  The answer is in this book!  What an eye opener and a theory that bears more research.<br />I rate this book at 4 stars instead of 5 simply because I feel the title a bit misleading and people will buy it that do not want this type of research to smack them in the face.  If that was intentional by the author I believe it was a stroke of genius to get his information across but yet a bit unfair to the unsuspecting purchaser.<br />Read this book, think on it, and be amazed!misleading and people will buy it that do not want this type of research to smack them in the face.  If that was intentional by the author I believe it was a stroke of genius to get his information across but yet a bit unfair to the unsuspecting purchaser.     <br />Read this book, think on it, and be amazed!	2002-07-20
US	50903541	R23SL50XFWQD6I	0609805290	184324977	The Last Hours of Ancient Sunlight: Waking Up to Personal and Global Transformation	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	An Outstanding, Important Book	Thom Hartman has written a very important book, full of insights, ideas and historical perspective on the fate of the human race upon this earth. He caught me right from the beginning with the \\"in your face\\" statement about what has happened in the last 24 hours on earth. 200,000 acres of rainforest have been destroyed, 45,000 people starved to death, 130 species have become extinct, the largest mass extinction since the dinosaurs vanished. That hit me like a ton of bricks. <br />But the book is not just an alarmists call towards conservation. It deals with food supplies, water supplies and population growth. The book explains how the earth's population is stressing the resources. How our advancements have caused different problems. Such as antibiotics and our misuse creating different strains that resist our antibiotics. It discusses religion, meditation, foreign country's ideas, topsoil loss, tribes versus city-states. The importance of trees and the detriments of fertilizer. The effects of global warming. How big business effects government. <br />The list is endless. The harm is obvious and the ideas to presented could be helpfull. This is a great book that should be read by every adult. Information is the key to survival. This book is full of information.	2002-07-17
US	50903541	RND9K5EIK3V9K	0939040158	747046357	The Book Your Church Doesn't Want You to Read	Books	4	448	495	N	Y	Think About It	This is a book that must be read with an open mind.  Those with hard-core beliefs will not like this book.  They will not give it the proper thought.  The book focuses on Christianity, probably because it is the most popular religion today, and only touches on most other religions.  That is the reason I could not bring myself to award a five star review.  But the author's points are worth considering for an open minded person.  <br />The book reviews letters and speeches by some of the founding fathers including Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Paine.  it touches on the native American with a review of the words of Chief Seattle.  Talks on the Dead Sea Scrolls, The Essenes and Mithra releigons.  It follows the history of the English Bible and the changes, reprints and revisions that have befell it.  The history of many of the stories in the Bible, how they existed before Christianity, the parallels in beliefs of Christianity and other religions that existed prior to it.  The customs around The Last Supper as well as the contradictions between the four gospels.  <br />A good read for those interested in the true origins of religion and what man believed before the religions of today.  This book should be read as one of many on the subject but no thorough research on the subject should leave this book out.  Read it with an open mind and think on it.	2002-07-14
US	50903541	RWFU778WP76ZP	193108209X	699860182	Baseball: A Literary Anthology	Books	4	13	13	N	N	History as it Happened	Baseball, in the time frame that it happened.  This book is an excellent view of events in their time.  It is a compilation of articles from writers, players, comentaters and owners.  Although the book sometimes seems to jump around this can be expected when you are piecing together articles by so many different people.  Where else could you find articles in the same book by Satchel Paige, Stephen King and A. Bartlett Giamatti.  Baseball seems timeless and this book presents that.  With first hand acounts of people and events that are long gone.<br />Of particular interest to me was the chapter where Lawrence Ritter talks to Sam Crawford.  Sam's views on life and people are engrossing, his assessement of opposing players provocative and his memories of the game eye-opening.   <br />Overall this book should be read by any fan of baseball.  It's a unique book and is full (over 700 pages) of interesting reading.  The entire history of baseball is covered in this book.	2002-07-14
US	50903541	R2LXYF4GF89GEV	096318895X	655510447	The Philadelphia Experiment Murder: Parallel Universes and the Physics of Insanity	Books	1	24	28	N	Y	Not What I Was Hoping For	This book started off well enough with some serious questions about a suicide/murder under strange circumstances.  Conspiracy theories about how the government is trying to silence those that know something about its time travel and mind control units.  It drew me in with some interesting points that should be looked at. <br />Some possibly believable claims about underground maglev train lines and underground military bases bear some thought.  Who knows what the government is doing with their black projects.  Do we really have Navy ships that can teleport from one ocean to another?   <br />But the book quickly fell into the hard to believe and stretch things way to far.  Some of the more outlandish claims include the fact that Nazi's from parallel universes have set up secret bases under Antarctica and under the Tokyo Bay.  The suggestion that the L.A. riots were created microwave mind control signals from satellites and manipulated our reality.  The CIA was founded by and is still full of Nazi's.  The Queen Mother is a shapeshifting reptilian alien that practices cannibalistic satanism (come on?!).  A New Jersey commune in the Pine Barrens was stormed by Delta Trrops because they had invented a device for transdimensional travel.  The US government signed a treaty with aliens, which we are now fighting underneath the city of Los Angeles, to exchange alien knowledge for human DNA.  Aliens buzzed the White House in the 1950s but President Truman would not surrended the world.  <br />For me this book lost credibility about 1/3 the way through and went WAY off the deep end.  I continued to read it only to find out what would be said next to top the shapeshifting alien lizard that we all know as the Queen Mum.  I like to consider myself open minded but this book presented ideas that to me belonged more in a comic book.  I was hoping to get a book on the Philadelphia Experiment but this book did not touch on it too much and the theme of the murder and cover-up quickly went by the way side to aliens and the lost city of Atlantis's coveted alien techknowlogy.  <br />If interested in the Philadelphia Experiment, skip this book and try another.	2002-07-10
US	50903541	R19FG877YIURBA	0895262797	13785914	God, Guns, & Rock 'N' Roll	Books	4	42	51	N	Y	IN YOUR FACE	Ted Nugent refuses to be ignored.  Like him or not he speaks his mind.  This book is Ted's views on guns and family first and foremost.  About his views on God and to a lessor extent his career.  This book will be an eye opener to those who don't know much about Ted and his views.  Those that see him as a 'long hair' or a 'drug taking rock and roller'.  Those that have followed him for years will enjoy the book as Ted once again standing up to be counted.  <br />Throughout the book he states opinions for guns, for child disciplin, for hunting (he has fed his family for over 30 years without store bought meat), for carrying weapons, for God, for family (his greatest pride), for the Constitution of the United States, for the NRA, for involvement with government and your elected officials, for police officers and on and on.  <br />At the same time he has just as strong statements against television, news reporters, being a \\"sheep\\", Bill Clinton, Al Gore, Sarah Brady, Janet Reno, Bill Bradley, Dianne Feinstein, stoned hippies, intellectual bankruptcy, drugs, alcohol, ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, crime, unwanted pregnancies, plastic bags, junk food, gangbangers, laughable saggy-pants rappers, the list is endless. <br />He laments the lost values of quite family time and the sit down dinner.  He offers his own perspectives on many of the gun crimes in recent years.  Counters the commonly heard statistics with some from government agencies not normally heard from, including the CDC.  <br />This book is a wonderful insight into Ted Nugent, the man, an American original.  Perhaps if more American's would follow Ted's example we would be in better shape today as a country.  This was a very enjoyable book, read it and think on it.	2002-07-03
US	50903541	R2KWHQLP94ZCK0	0688167721	304427712	Parental Advisory: Music Censorship in America	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	A Good Overall View	This is a good reference book for the history of music (and video) censorship or attempted censorship.  It shows the ridiculous as well as the warrented (in who's opinion?).  While I'm sure that no one wants their child to listen to songs of suicide, sex and drugs when they are ten years old, this book, to me, enforces the fact that it is more a parental responsibility that anything else. <br />To rely on others to tell you what is bad for your child is nuts.  Tipper Gore started the PMRC because of her lack of parental initiative, even though she claims it was because of it.  The book details the episode, when she bought an album based on her 11 year old daughter's recommendation and listened to it with her child and two younger siblings without first previewing its contents and then gets mad at the artist and the record company for releasing it.  Come on!  She should have previewed this album before playing it for her daughter, I would have. <br />Relying on others to make these determinations is dangerous.  For instance some wanted the Captain and Tenille banned because they endorsed vegetarianism and believe in reincarnation.  The Beach Boys because they practice yoga.  Carlos Santana because if you drop the first N and the last A you have a devil worshipper.  The list goes on and are presented in this book as food for thought on following rather than thinking. In the 1960's some thought The Beatles music was part of a Communist plot to jam the nervous systems of young people (I know, sounds too weird).  <br />The FBI has investigated many rock and rollers throughout the 1950-1960-1970s for subversive statements and lyrics.  Church groups think music promotes the Devil.  Conservatives don't like the liberal message and liberals don't like the conservative message.  Jesse Jackson thought Disco music was morality- damaging!  <br />The bottom line is GET A GRIP!  Think for yourself and your children, within' the family unit.  Did any rational person really think that \\"Rocky Mountain High\\" was about drug abuse?  This book shows you why people must continue to think and make their own choices.  <br />A classic, that is a good addition to any library for a reader or a music fan I consider this book a must have.	2002-06-26
US	50903541	R1C3WW493AJJ5J	0763607150	836568043	Meltdown: A Race Against Nuclear Disaster at Three Mile Island: A Reporter's Story	Books	4	9	15	N	Y	A Good Sense of What Was Going On At The Time	Wilborn Hampton was assigned by UPI to cover the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  Mr. Hampton has done a fine job at portraying the confusion of the experts, the contradicting conclusions drawn from the same material in Washington DC and at the plant as well as the high anxiety level that all this created in nearby towns and counties. <br />I lived near the plant at the time of the accident and was one of the children evacuated because of the impending doom.  I remember well the confusion surrounding what was going on.  No one seemed to know for sure what was going to happen and some experts came right out and admitted so.  Mr. Hampton has portrayed these feelings well and while reading the book you can see why.  With behind the scene knowledge and of course hindsight the writer has produced an excellent book on the public events that this area went through.  This book is not too technical but touches on how close we actually were to a meltdown, something still at debate in many circles. <br />This book is good for young teens on up.  It should be read by anyone who is interested in history, nuclear power or even how big corporations treat teh surrounding communities and the local and state governments.  There is much more that can be read on the subject but this is a very interesting book and good place to start.	2002-06-17
US	50903541	R1GE6M050QR1QB	0743215362	869948861	Tesla: Man Out of Time	Books	5	302	322	N	Y	An Very Eye Opening Book	I, like many others, have heard the name of Tesla and knew that he was far-sighted and a great inventor.  Many rock fans will remember the group \\"Tesla\\" and their album \\"The Great Radio Controversy\\".  I only mention this because I feel it opened the door for a great many young people to have an interest in Tesla. <br />This book was engrossing from start to finish.  The number of patents, the ideas he presented so far ahead of his time and the inventions he brought forth literally changed the world.  He does not get credit for most of what he did.  He was just recently added to the Smithsonian Museum for his invention of the radio which many still believe was invented by Marconi.  And children are still taught in school that \\"Thomas Edison invented electricity\\" but in fact the type of of electrity we use today was put forth by Tesla. <br />His awesome intelligence invented so many components of micro technology that inventors for years after did not comprehend.  For instance, this book brings for the facts that \\"Inventors of modern computer technology in the last half of the twentieth century repeatedly have been surprised, when seeking patents, to encounter Tesla's basic ones, already on file.\\"  <br />To list Nikola Tesla's ideas, discoveries and inventions would take an entire book in itself but some included the Atom Smasher, X-Rays, Radio, electro-magnetic power, AC electricity, Solar Heating, Vacuum Tubes, Remote Control Vehicles, Torpedoes, Force Fields, Microwave Transmissions, Diathormy, High Voltage Conducters, Wireless Communications, World Wide Broadcasting Systems, Flying Saucers, Transisters, The Atomic Clock, Cosmic Rays, Phosphorescent Lighting, The Heating Pat, Robots, Liquid Oxygen, Under Ground Power LInes, Cryogenics, Radar, Guided Missiles, Automobile Speedometer, Highway Systems, Parking Garages, Interplanetary Communications, Laser Beams, Death Rays, Modern Warfare, Geothermal Steam Plants, and the list can go on and on.  He once produced an earth quake in New York City and blew out electric plants in Colorado with his experiments.  He was so far ahead of his time that the US Air Force is still researching his ideas and the US Government, in posession of his papers, denies that they have any of his notes.  What they did acknowledge they had is still classified.   <br />Nikola Tesla was a dapper man who spoke eight languages fluently and onced signed away riches for the benefit of a friend (George Westinghouse) who had supported him in the past.  He was a naturalized U.S. citizen and this he considered his greatest accomplishement.  His experiments through most of his life were constanty in need of funds and he approached the US Government several times.  One can only wonder what might have come of his knowledge if the government had agreed to fund him.  Thankfully his devotion was to the United States because both Russia and Germany approached him and he turned them down.  As it turns out the US Government expressed much more interest in his experiments after his death than when he was alive.  Apparently taking his notes and classifying them and also moving forward in his ideas.  <br />This book presents a great overview with a little insight into his experiments.  It covers the man, the experiments, his friends and his times.  It's a great introduction to Nikola Tesla and I highly recommend it to anyone who is searching for the truth about historic inventions.  Big companies and powerful men continued to keep Tesla's inventions either ignored, ridiculed (until later knowledge proved them right) or stolen so he could not profit to the full extent that he should have.  A study in the down side of capitalism. <br />Buy this book, open your ideas, enjoy history and think about what you have been taught.  Fascinating!	2002-06-02
US	50903541	R3TZF9QZW0DEH0	0970112564	330818760	The Message That Comes From Everywhere: Exploring the Common Core of the World's Religions and Modern Science	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Good Introduction	This book is a good introduction to the thought that all major religions in the world are actually very similar in their teachings and beliefs.  With quotes from every major religions &quot;holy book&quot; and their teachers as well as scholars and smaller religions of the past it seems to present a very common thread.  I was a bit astonished to also see quotes by John Lennon and song lyrics from Led Zeppelin and The Beatles included but I see where he was trying to go. <br />It seemed to be written more from a western perspective and focused more on what westerners believe.  I think Gary tried to offer the eastern side but only touched the tip of the iceberg in that regards.  <br />I found the book more interesting as it continued.  The chapters on science, the mind, the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Nag Hammadi Library were particulary thought provoking.  The short history lesson on the birth of the Bible, the Roman Empire and the Gnostics were also intriguing.  <br />This book was a good beginning that touched many thought provoking subjects that interested me enough to research more.  The list the author presents of differing religions bears research as well as the chapter titled after the book begs for contemplation. <br />Buy this book, ignite your thinking, and open your mind.	2002-06-02
US	50903541	R2ZXKLCS885RKR	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Jesus Christ for the Analyzing Personality	This book was outstanding for the person who thinks of the hard questions about Christianity and looks for the answers.  With interviews of a number of prominent scholars Strobel provides us with almost unlimited insight into the gospels of Mathew, Mark, Luke and John.  How refreshing to see the controversy stripped away and the facts presented.  This is a very interesting read.  If you have any questions about Chrisianity and the true identity of Jesus, read this book. <br />Presenting many details from historical and anthropoligical point of view that verify Jesus lived where, when and as the gospels tell us.  <br />In important book, informative and engrossing.  Buy it for any number of reasons and enjoy it.	2002-05-25
US	50903541	R1GVP78JINJHO6	0684844893	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	4	10	18	N	N	An Analitical Overview	Gary Wills provides us with a panoramic overview of the constitution and some events in American History.  This book will probably not be received well by the NRA or its supporters but should be read, and contemplated, by all. <br />Starting with the framers of the constitution and their intent as derived from their writings and debates outside of the written constitution and covering people and events right up to the abortion clinic bombings this book sheds another outlook on these events and the meaning behind them.  <br />Read this with an open mind.  Compare it to what you believe and make an educated choice on what to think.  You should always be exposed to opposite points of view in order to make an educated choice.  Do not accept what people tell you, you sould research and decide.  <br />This is an important book that should be read, discussed, and contemplated.  Buy it, and get the brain cells moving.	2002-05-23
US	50903541	R3GD9OOCBOYFJC	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Who are the Taliban	This was a very useful book for me after 9-11.  I had not idea who the Taliban were and why they were not cooperating like almost every government in the world with the U.S. requests. <br />This information in the book helped me to understand who they were, how they came to power and the practices they followed.  I now understood what I heard on the news about the Afgan \\"Tribal Leaders\\".  I recognized the names and was able to read on their history.  This was a very informative book and I learned an awful lot from it. <br />Also covered in this book are the ties between oil companies and their hopes of using the countrie for pipelines.  How Iran and Iraq wanted rights to cross the country.  It was eye opening to see some of the things that are going on. <br />Buy it - learn from it.	2002-05-21
US	50903541	R7RIU1GFJ1R51	1580082319	48495081	How Wal-Mart is Destroying America and The World and What You Can Do About It	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	A Little More Than Big Business	Some of the practices listed in this book are no more than what big business at the size of Wal-Mart's do.  But with that said, many of the practices listed in this book are despicable.  The fact that local mom and pop stores go out of business when Wal-Mart moves in would normally be considered a fact of life in American business today were it not for the ruthless way that Wal-Mart specifically targets them to drive them into the ground. The way Wal-Mart employees are treated, the way the vendors are ripped off.  And most importantly, the way Wal-Mart uses people and disasters to further promote itself.  All the while some of the richest folks in the world are running for tax shelters and dodging charities.  <br />What a shame, with practices like this, no wonder the rest of the world hates capitalism.  <br />Buy this book and reflect on the store you are supporting.	2002-05-20
US	50903541	R2W1CX4SJP08ZB	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A MUST READ BOOK	Colonel David Hackworth has written an autobiography that is just absolutely fabulous.  He is America's most decorated living soldier and was the youngest full Colonel in Vietnam.  While serving in Vietnam he had possibly the only sector that the viet cong could not move at will in.  In 1971 he broke the cardinal rule and went on national TV, as a Colonel, and said we could not win the war if we kept fighting the same way.  He was completely disguted at the progress of the war and the leadership. He left the army and moved to Austraila where he still lives today and is an outspoken critic of US military forces. <br />This book is his story.  From his childhood, through his lying about his age and fighting in Korea, the peacetime army, the war in Vietnam and beyond.  This is a must read book for anyone who is interested about the US military, US history or the Vietnan War.  <br />Buy this book and prepare to stand in awe of one of the greatest warriors in the history of military forces.  Hear his story and ponder his opinions.  It is well worth it.	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R3K6WQP82J8VSW	0060175044	136913115	Where God Lives: The Science of the Paranormal and How Our Brains are Linked to the Universe	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Thought Provoking	Dr. Melvin Morse gives us one of the best books that I have ever read.  Thought provoking and detailed.  How do humans connect to God?  Is it through the brain?  What of near death experiences and how are they similar?  Is there proof of past lives?  Do they connect?  What is our link to the universe, or our position?  Many topics are explored in this book in detail.  <br />This book has to rate as one of the best on the subject of Paranormal Science.  A must read for anyone who has an interest in the subject, or to someone who may be curious as to what this subject is all about.  But this book, open your mind.	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R6AJCCVKT0K49	0767906780	133206690	Fatal Voyage: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Very Good Book	The first I had ever heard of the USS Indianapolis was in the movie Jaws.  Unfortunately my history classes in school did not cover this subject.  Apparently they felt it was not a big enough part of World War II.  But this was a tragedy full of mistakes by many.  The ship was not noticed missing for days, it was sunk after the end of the war.  The sailors faced certain death from dehydration or being eaten alive (sharks) and the Captain was court-martialled for following procedures. <br />This is an exceptional book that will keep your interest and enlighten you on a subject that many do not know about.  I can not compare to other books on the subject as this is the first I have read.  But it was well worth my time to read it.	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R3U09V8OAFFOP8	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	5	0	1	N	N	What A Great Movie This Book Would Make	Yes, I know we've already had Tom Berringer in \\"Sniper\\" on the screen but this book would blow that away.  Carlos Hathcock was a super-human sniper in the Vietnam war.  The only sniper to have a bounty placed on his head by the NVA and still he evaded and killed the enemy, from awesome distances and through very tight enemy security.  Sgt. Hathcock was the U.S. long range rifle champion before entering Vietnam and helped set up the US Marine Corps Sniper School after the war.  This book shows what this great soldier went through.  This book is on par with David Hackworth's \\"About Face\\".  With soldiers like these it can only be deduced that the war was lost by politicians.  <br />Read this book and be amazed!	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R2M1XAC42V54IM	0963746766	473827426	Occult Ether Physics: Tesla's Hidden Space Propulsion System and the Conspiracy to Conceal It (2nd Revised Edition)	Books	5	42	50	N	Y	Thought Provoking	The most fascinating parts of this book was the information it presented on the government cover up of the UFO phenomenon.  It wouldn't be the first time the government has covered up something from its citizens.  Another fascinating thing was how far advanced Tesla's mind was over scientists of that time and many of our own time.  He was an absolute genius that the government and the &quot;money men&quot; in America kept under wraps out of total fear.  Fear of what changes his inventions could bring about in society.  <br />This book is exceptional and has lit my fire to learn more about this incredible man.  I remember the UFO craze of my youth and find plausible the explanations offered in this book.  I even remember seeing something at my Uncle's Farm as a child (near Dover Air Force Base) that fits right in with the description of the &quot;electropropulsion&quot; power system.	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R22SKRR49SYVEU	0938294008	70969316	The Philadelphia Experiment Chronicles: Exploring The Strange Case Of Alfred Bielek And Dr. M.K. Jessup	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Not The Worse	I gave this a three star rating, a good book because it raised a lot of questions.  But I also gave it three stars because it raised a lot of questions without going deep enough into them.  This is my first book on this subject and I was left wondering about many of subjects that the book touched on but did not elaborate on.  Including Nicoli Tesla, who was very involved with the government and experimentation at the time but only gets a few passing paragraphs with nothing in-depth on him.<br />Much of the information in this book is fascinating.  Time travel, government funded time machines, ...75 million computers in the 1950's, stolen gold bullion from Nazi germany, teleportation, time dimensions, amazing!  The Gray invasion seemed a bit far-fetched (but who knows?).  This book did intrigue me enough to start looking for others on these subjects.<br />A good starting place but a little short at 137 pages. Give it a read and decide for yourself.	2002-05-18
US	50903541	R3QLK9USLWGZ7Z	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	4	2	7	N	Y	Very Good	This book is a review of the twelve most commonly used high school history textbooks across the United States.  A look at the materials that are being used to teach our children and the picture that is presented is not pretty. <br />This book is very important for anyone interested in history or in why our young people seem to be clueless regarding it.  One quarter of college freshman believe that the Vietnam War was fought between North and South Korea.  How can that be?  This book can shed some light.  <br />This book also provides detailed \\"period looks\\" at events in U.S. history.  It amazed me how this book played out and what was left out of the high school history books that are being used throughout our country, no wonder young people have such dismal knowledge of history. <br />Read this book and open your eyes.  Changes need to be made and this book should be read by all teachers and parents.  The gaps need to be filled in.  <br />Buy it - read it - and be shocked!	2002-05-17
US	50903541	R35O4CDQ6UF7J8	0816640068	433043544	Harmful To Minors: The Perils Of Protecting Children From Sex	Books	5	31	50	N	Y	Why the book bashing?	Many news programs and news magazines have been trashing this book in their programs because its ideas are nutty.  I do not agree with that verdict.  I found this book to be very well researched and informative.  This should be required reading for many people, including politicians that use children's issues as a soap box to get re-elected.  <br />This is an important book with many insights from child professionals and experts.  About what a healthy child needs to strive, how our current system is failing them in many ways.  The different tactics that parents have taken.  It talks frankly about sex-ed in schools and at home.  It weighs the debate on the child abuse panic from the 1980s forward, discussing cases both factual and exaggerated.  <br />Contrary to all the hysteria created by the news programs this book is important and should be read.  I give it an excellent rating for its completeness and having the courage to speak out against the norm, not being politically correct.  <br />Three cheers for Judith Levine.	2002-05-15
US	50903541	R3UOJTQR5IK4AB	4900737399	589733327	Unit 731 - Testimony	Books	4	33	39	N	Y	A Good Beginning	Most of the information that you read on World War II involves the battles for Europe or the Pacific.  We have books on the German concentration camps.  But very few books are written on Japanese atrocities.  This is one that should be read.  With personal testimonies from the perpetrators this book adds an additional insight into what happened.  <br />Along with the almost unreadable atrocities committed on the prisoners of Unit 731 was the almost unbelievable cover up contributed to by the United States government.  In exchange for the secrets that the Japanese government had unravelled about biological weapons and the effects of frostbite, etc on the human body.  The U.S. government was definately up to speed on what had happened but blocked the Japanese from being held accountable at pacific war crimes trials in exchange for all the information that the Japanese government provided.  Everything was turned over to the U.S.  This is something that needs to be explored more in depth and I would be interested to read. <br />All in all, this was a very good book.  At times the thought of these things being done to human beings is almost incomprehensible, but it did happen.  This is a book to read.	2002-05-08
US	50903541	R1YGW38GSINSGQ	080505765X	871287878	THE BIOLOGY OF DOOM: America's Secret Germ Warfare Project	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	SCARY!	The book was an awesome overview of the American, Russian and British programs of biological weapons.  While the Americans and the British stuck to a treaty signed in the 1970's to stop the production of biological weapons, the Russian's only increased their production.  And what a production they had!  Almost unrealistic in its scope.  <br />This book is important in its insight into the biological weapons programs of &quot;the big three&quot; and into the possible capabilities of what these programs could do.  Information on the early projects at Ft. Dietrick, Maryland were very illuminating and lit a fire for me to read some more on this subject. <br />Overall, an exceptional book, important to read not only because of what was done, but what could be done with the remnants of what is left.  Where did all the former Soviet scientists go?  To the Middle East?  Read this book - open your eyes!	2002-05-08
US	50903541	R2ZQ884U5S922K	0964156849	843978645	Marijuana Myths Marijuana Facts: A Review Of The Scientific Evidence	Books	4	34	36	N	Y	Even If You Don't Smoke - Read This	I must admit right off the bat that I don't smoke marijuana, but I drink. After reading this book I found myself wondering why marijuana is illegal and alcohol is not. A very insightful and seemingly unprejudiced book on the facts surrounding marijuana. Written by a Ph.D. and a M.D. this is not a book by crackpots. Very important facts by level headed people, this is a must read book that goes a long way towards the understanding of the facts. Read this, educate yourself, and form your own opinions.	2002-05-08
US	50903541	R23CM6DIBAE9ZY	0609609874	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A Very Important Book	This book is a very important read and offers insight into a variety of problems the United States has experienced recently in regards to security.  The book was written by one of the top field agents in the CIA who was a Middle East expert for many decades.  From an insiders view he has explained why the CIA has lost so much of its ability to gather information.  Due to both the politicians and the career agents in the CIA looking for the cushy job and not willing to make waves even if needed.  And the appointees that have no idea what a field agent needs or what to pass on to their supervisors.  <br />Throughout this book Mr. Baer's experiences lead him to many educated theories about the Twin Towers attack, the Iran Hostages, Israel, Yassir Arafat, Saddam Hussein, Iraq, and many other Middle East topics.  This book was very insightful and you feel like Mr. Baer is nothing but a normal guy frustrated with the &quot;higher ups&quot; in his job.  He could be working in any industry and that is some of the appeal of his writing.  Only many more important things, like US national security, are involved in his job. <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the recent history of the CIA, Middle Eastern events or US security.  It will, and should, make you think long and hard about how safe we really are.  Thank you Mr. Baer!	2002-05-08
US	50903541	R304BMICBJKW5I	0471161578	494517852	Espionage: The Greatest Spy Operations of the Twentieth Century	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	A Good Book But	While I thought this was a good book and covered some very interesting topics I found myself a bit disappointed that the stories did not delve deeper into what they initially touched on.  I would have enjoyed this more had the book been, say, three times as long and the stories gone deeper.  I finished each chapter, or case, realizing that this was quite interesting and insightful to what had happened, many times in a historical concept.  But found myself wondering about the little intricacies that would have been necessary to pull these capers off.  <br />This book is would be a good start to preview some espionage cases and pick the ones you like to research further.	2002-05-08
US	50903541	R10PS53XZPM099	0140248145	790024850	In Search of the Edge of Time: Black Holes, White Holes, Wormholes (Practical Resources for the Mental Health Professionals)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	A Thinking Person's Book	This book really got my mind thinking of the possibilities of the future.  It showed the evolution of thinking.  Things that are possible now that only visionaries saw in the past.  <br />the break down of Black Holes, White Holes, Wormholes, Space Time, Hyperspace and the ideas of warping time and space are truly interesting.  The book illustrations helped to understand some of the text.  This book also showed how Einstein was a generation ahead of his time.  People are still proving and using his theories.  <br />An excellent book, highly recommended for anyone interested in the universe or the posibility of time travel.  The mathematical theories that prove the possibility of a time machine are interesting also.  Give this a read, and decide for yourself.  Is it possible?  Will it be possible?  Has it already been done?  Fact based information is presented with no tilt toward the science fiction.  A good read, even if I had to read some of it a second time to make sure I followed, Gribbin brought these theories to a level a person of average intelligence can understand as I am far from a genious.	2002-05-06
US	50903541	R37YDZ3RBJMJQE	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Important Book	An engrossing book that should be read by everyone who may be worried about the threat or history of germ warfare.<br />The US Government began worrying about the threat of biological attacks back in 1949.  Unfortunately we have not come far enough in the technology that is needed to protect our citizens.  <br />This book covers many of the possible germ warfare agents and how they came about.  How they progressed, who has them.  It reviews the US Governments program at Ft. Dietrick, Maryland and one of its most known scientist, Bill Patrick.  It talks about the vast amount of agents that were stockpiled by the Russian's while they insisted (and we believed) that they were not building an arsenal.  <br />Another troubling thought is the information about who has increased their germ warfare capabilities after the fall of the Soviet Union.  Where did all their government paid scientists go?  While we tried to address this issue at the time, it did not solve the entire problem.  <br />Who do you think is a threat?  China?  Iran?  Iraq?  India?  Argentina?  Canada?  Read this book to obtain the information to make an informed decision.  <br />This is an excellent book with a few faults and some contradictions but the light that it sheds on so many unkown facts and historical events is eye opening.  Do yourself a favor and read this book.	2002-05-04
US	50903541	R1Q58Q75BQRVI3	1557787883	323279141	From Rage to Responsibility: Black Conservative Jesse Lee Peterson and America Today	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	A Breath of Fresh Air	What an exceptional book!  Jesse Lee Peterson stresses personal responsibility not just for the black individual but for everyone in the human race.  This book may be viewed by many as an attack on blacks but I didn't feel that way.  As a black man Mr. Peterson sees the problems his race is experiencing from the inside out.  He examines many controversial issues including, but not limited to, racism (both black and white) the welfare problem, the immigration problem, the education problem and the problems that are created by the fact that over 70% of black children are born out of wedlock.<br />In his no-holds barred observations he holds up the idea that black leaders are exploiting the family problems of black people for review.  he quotes many interesting facts about black families and middle class workers that you normally do not hear on the liberal news or from black leaders themselves.<br />Overall a very interesting read for anyone who would like to analyze the perceptions of blacks and whites about each other in this country.  To review some of the reasons behind it and to ponder some potential solutions.	2002-05-04
US	50903541	R1AIOV2DIJT4JF	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wow!  A Must Read	What a fascinating book.  Covering the history and development of the NSA.  This book is very interesting.  Covering some of the older secrets that have not been read about and hinting at the direction that this agency and our government is going.  An overview of how this little agency turned into the monstrous agency that it is now and how much of the governmental budget it sucks up.  Do we get a bang for our budget buck?  Read this book to find out.<br />Many disturbing world instances are brought to light including a relatively unkown incident that the Israeli's attacked a US ship in 1967.  The facts that so many secrets exist at the NSA that most employes don't even tell their spouses where they work.  Covering Crypto City and the effort it takes to run and guard it.  <br />A very important book to read covering the end of World War II, the Cold War, the observations of many counties (China, Korea, Egypt, Argentina, Cuba, Soviet Union and more), the Cuban Missle Crisis, the Vietnam War and so many events in history as seen through the eyes of the NSA. <br />Buy this book, set aside a weekend, a be prepared to open your eyes to what your government has been up to.	2002-05-04
US	50903541	R3UWRWVK7ETP99	1880114186	397113697	The Truth About Sacajawea (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	A Good Introduction	While this book is a bit short (96 pages) it is also filled with fact, as written by Lewis and Clark themselves.  This is a testament to the value of Sacajawea to the expedition.  A crucial part of the success of the exploration of the Louisanna Purchase.  <br />Sacajawea proved very valuable in finding food, acting as an interpreter for the exploring party and guiding them through lands that she remembered from her younger days.  She was a Shoshoni girl who was captured at age 11 and married to another tribe.  <br />This book serves as a good introduction (it was mine) to a fascinating woman who's place in history, while assured, probably is not as esteemed as it actually should be.  She is too often overlooked in the school books or her contributions minimized.  I barely remember anything (other than her name) from my days of learning history in school.  And I was astonished to find that William Clark was the guardian of her two children after her death (before the choice of her husband).  <br />On oversight this is a good book for a history buff or for someone interested in Native American History.  It is also easy to understand and read and would benefit children from, say, 12 and up.	2002-04-30
US	50903541	RJOHQXQ5FL24E	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	5	31	38	N	Y	Read This Book With An Open Mind	You must read this book with an open mind and decide on the facts.  The ten reasons that Horowitz lists against reparations are legitimate.  I bought this book expecting the see each point elaborated on, and I did.  My ancestors fought for the Union in the Civil War and I don't feel that I should have to pay for reparations to slaves that my family fought to free (and never owned), especially when viewed in the overall scheme of the history of slavery in the world and where the U.S. slave trade fits in.  And what of the immigrants after the Civil War who had nothing to do with it?  But I don't want to spend too much time on the individual points.<br />What disgusted me the most of all the information in this book was the state of our colleges today.  They are supposed to be open to all points of view, to teach our children to accept and debate and decide on their own.  Instead it seems from this book that univerity administration, faculty and even students are shutting down the free flow of ideas in favor of political correctness.  This book should make every adult think about how universities are teaching our children. What happened to the open debates of the past?  Why is information now being censored?  What kind of future society might this create?  Questions at this point left unanswered but they certainly need addressed.  This country was founded on freedoms, an important one was the right to disagree with someone's statement and to argue it, without repercussions for your opinions.  This seems to have vanished at our college's.  <br />Granted, this question is creating many hard feelings in the U.S. right now.  Many blacks from varied backgrounds are pushing for reparations and many whites are afraid to discuss such controversial issues for the fear of being labeled racist.  A sad truth in our society today is the fact that at the initial point of any disagreement involving black and white the racist label flies out too quickly and too broadly.   <br />This book should be read not only by people interested in forming an opinion on reparations but by anyone who would like to know the state of our college's today.	2002-04-29
US	50903541	R17ATRT00X1D6O	0891414703	695175012	George Bush Vs. Saddam Hussein: Military Success! Political Failure?	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An overview by hindsight	This book basically contends that although the leaders of the two countries acted like school yard bullies squaring off that it was George Bush who kept pushing towards war each time Saddam Hussein tried to slow down the current.  <br />Among some of the interesting items presented against President Bush was the fact that he initially seemed to be pushed around by British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher who told him at a meeting that he couldn't stand for Hussein's invasion.  In the beginning he wobbled and changed stances on the invasion frequently.  His public and private statements through diplomatic channels were contradicting.  At first he conveyed to Saddam Hussein (before the invasion of Kuwait) that the U.S. didn't care what Hussein did and would not take action if he invaded because it was an Arab problem.  But when the invasion occurred he took action against it.  Second, President Bush pushed Sadia Arabia to house U.S. troops on their soil even though the Saudi's were against it.  Then he announced to the world that the Saudi's had requested the U.S. troops to help protect their land.  Third, President Bush announced that the troops in Saudi Arabia would be there for defense of that country only and denied any intention of an invasion force to push back Iraqi troops.  This too, turned out to be untrue. <br />On the opposite side of the spectrum it seems that, initially, Saddam Hussein's grievances were somewhat legitimate, although not for a full invasion of Kuwait.  Saddam had come to the U.S. for help and was told to handle it any way he wanted, it was not our concern.  You have to understand that in the years before the Gulf War the U.S. government was helping Saddam Hussein in his war with Iran.  There was an issue of Kuwait stealing Iraqi oil by a \\"slant drill\\" in an oil field.  The issue of Kuwait owning islands that blocked the ability of Iraq to transport their oil out of the Persian Gulf (these were given to Kuwait by the British).  Atleast fourtimes Hussein had offered a peace agreement and to remove his soldiers from Kuwait after the invasion through many nations, including Jordan and Russia, all to be turned down by the U.S.    <br />Overall I feel this book was interesting and shed some light on some of the causes behind the war.  While I believe that these are valid reasons that have been well researched I'm sure there are even more.  The path towards war is usually complex.	2002-04-24
US	50903541	R34QCR019M8S57	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	4	15	20	N	Y	A Very Important Read	This book is a very important read for anyone who is interested in world history, military history or humanitarian issues.  In order to stop events from happening one must be aware of things that have happened in the past.  This book brings to light atrocities that hopefully will never be repeated.  It also sheds light on the old saying of \\"History is written by the victor\\".  Pointing out the cover up and official denials that the Japanese government stands by, in the face of factual evidence.  Every government in the world, at some point, has written its history for its citizens consumption to benefit themselves and perpetuate their own stranglehold on what their citizens consider the truth.  This book rings true of this fact.<br />Another aspect of the book was the undying stubbornness of many foreign workers from both government agencies and corporations from around the world that obstinately worked to help the Chinese.  They diligently worked to protect many Chinese refugees in the camps that had no legal or international protection.  Just their will kept them safe.  Including an important person in the Nazi party from Germany.  An inspirational side of a horrific event.  A recommended read for anyone who likes to come to their own conclusions and not accept as the whole truth what we were taught, and not taught, in the public school system in America.	2002-04-21
US	50903541	R1ROG54WZPBORV	0446602310	897489221	10 Feet Tall and Bulletproof: The Travis Tritt Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Insightful	If you have even a passing interest in Travis Tritt I recommend this book.  There is nothing like first hand accounts of events to shed some light.  I found Travis's attitude toward the &quot;business&quot; to be intelligent.  I also was glad to see many of his personal attitudes to be grounded and not what many fans of country music have begun to expect from the stars - arrogance.  I wish the book would have been a little longer and delved into things with a little more detail.  But overall this was worth reading.	2002-04-21
US	50903541	R2OX4UVYBT5VET	0517194597	399969091	The Wit & Wisdom of Harry Truman	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Good Insights	This book was an excellent insight into the President who never lost sight of the fact that he was nothing more than a common man.  Refreshing attitudes that we do not seem to see in politicians today.  In his own words, on many subjects, and shooting from the hip his words provide a greater understanding to what Harry Truman was made of.  I recommend this book to anyone who would like to know more about Harry Truman or anyone who has an interest in U.S. history.	2002-04-20
US	50903541	R30L19B5VCPILS	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	interesting oversight	This book presented an excellent history on the fast good establishments in the United States, and at this point around the world.  Although not quite as many gruesome details as I thought reading other reviews I will admit that it was quite an eye opener on many aspects of what has happened, more in the past that the present.  The issue of government &quot;protetection&quot; of the industry was quite interesting.  As was the effect on foreign countries health in the aftermath of the introduction of fast food.  A worthwhile read with lots of information that needs to be read by anyone exposed to our fast food eating, mobile lifestyle.	2002-04-20
US	50903541	R2PW17AFF9HBK7	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	75	80	N	Y	While I can't say objective - the facts speak for themselves	What an eye opener!  This books seems to be very factual.  The events and circumstances surrounding the Reverend Jackson, excuse me so called Reverend Jackson, are appalling.  This book shows a sad fact in America today.  That the corporations, the press and even the average white person are petrified by the thought of being accused of racism against an African-American.  And Jesse Jackson has taken full advantage of that to enrich himself and his family.  This book is a must read for anyone who would like to see some of the details of the stories we have been seeing on the news.  Adding credibility, in my opinion, to the facts presented in this book is the fact that this book has been reviewed on many news programs and talk shows and Jesse has refused to make any appearances rebutting the facts.  Those that have attempted to defend him on these shows have reverted to pointing out the good he has done (I'm sure there are good things).  This book presents information on the bad things he has done, with indepth information that does not appear on the evening news.  This will not be the last book I read on the subject but I feel that it is a very important book for anyone to read that is interested in the man, the history and the smoke screen that Jesse has created.	2002-04-20
US	50903541	R35T6QR7POB17O	0966039009	56440697	The Trouble With Farrakhan & the Nation of Islam: Another Message to the Black Man in America	Books	2	8	12	N	Y	Not What I Expected	This was the first book that I have read on Minister Farrakhan.  I have heard both positive and negative comments on his teachings and, although not a Muslim myself, wanted to learn more on the subject.  The book initially absorbed me with the comparison of Christianity, The Nation of Islam and Orthodox Islam.  I enjoyed reading the history of the three religions and how they differed.  However, after the initial chapters reviewing the history aspect it seemed to me that Elreta Dodds did not present an objective view on her subject.  It became obvious that the purpose of her book was to trash Minister Farrakhan based on his religious beliefs versus the authors.  This book seemed to be a bit biased overall.  The objectivity was thrown out the window and replaced with Elreta's personal views.  Perhaps I bought the book expecting a different angle.  The Minister's speeches are disected with an unrelenting pejorative tone.  While I did gather a basic dislike of what he has been preaching I wish that this would not have been the first book that I read on the subject.  It left me wondering if all the negative comments I have heard about the man may have, to some point, been overblown by those on the far opposite end of his teachings.  For those that like unbiased facts and like to contemplate these facts on their own I do not recommend this book.  For those that have their minds made up and would like to read comments of someone that thinks like they do, this is your book.  I was a bit dissapointed.	2002-04-20
