US	50906518	R3P4MIL5P5BQ25	071266498X	777768730	The Closing of the Western Mind	Books	2	41	93	N	N	A Seriously Flawed Work	It is hard to understand how an intelligent and learned person could write a book like Charles Freeman's &quot;The Closing of the Western Mind.&quot; His entire thesis is absurd. The later classical period and the early Middle Ages do not represent the nadir of philosophy, but the recovery of its vitality following an era when Greek philosophy turned inward (Cynicism, Stoicism, Epicureanism, Cyrenaic philosophy, skepticism). Metaphysical philosophy recovered its vitality when it combined with the Christian religion. Greek philosophy shaped Christianity in its own image. It is simply ridiculous to assert that Christian theology is not primarily cast in Platonic and Aristotelian forms of thought. The entire theology of the Apostle Paul is a combination of Jewish religious belief and Greek metaphysics. The Gospel of John begins with the world's most famous expression of Greek metaphysical thought: &quot;In the beginning was the word.&quot; Augustine's philosophy is steeped in Greek metaphysical ideas. What about John Scotus Eriugena? Does Freeman serious think Christianity was a static faith, that it didn't evolve over time? The reality is that Christianity continually reinvented itself over the centuries by making use of Greek philosophy. Freeman's story is the tired old tale about the decline of the intellect during the Middle Ages. In fact, intellectual life was kept alive only by the Church, and the Church developed its own sense of identity in accordance with the Greek categories of thought. Not to diminish his accomplishment in any way, but Thomas Aquinas merely systematized several traditions that had long been in place. A person like Freeman should know better than to peddle such long discredited ideas.	2004-01-18
US	50906518	R2U50XIE8NJQTJ	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Best Biography to Date....Period!	Ian Kershaw's \\"Hitler\\" is the best biography on Hitler...period! Is it perfect? No. The first volume was more personal and probably a little better than the second.  The second gets a little too caught up in the war.  There is some neglect of Hitler's very personal relationships with Magda Goebbels, Winifred Wagner, Eva Braun etc.  But, Hitler's almost daily decisions during the war years are wonderfully covered as are his relationships with the military leaders and Nazi Party chiefs surrounding him. His grand vision for a new Reich is amply detailed and Hitler the man and the leader is well presented.  His strategic military thinking is also well covered.  His responsibility for the elimination of the Jews and others in Europe is well documented.  All in all, a grand effort.  We are fortunate to have these volumes...Fest is great, but not as new or comprehensive.  Bullock doesn't measure up...not even close. John Toland...no.  Colin Cross, forget it.  While it is always a good idea to read a number of authors, if you are going to own just one biography...this is the one.	2002-02-20
US	50906518	R1XUR8210WOTF5	0700609318	352573813	Explicit and Authentic Acts: Amending the U.S. Constitution, 1776-1995	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Definitive Study of  Attempts to Change the Constitution	David Kyvig's book &quot;Explicit and Authentics Acts&quot; covers the formal attempts to change the U.S. Constitution.  It is packed with information from every era from the Articles of Confederation to the 1990's.  Kyvig demonstrates how a national consensus must emerge before Constitutional change can become a reality and that changes which are not codified in the Constitution are rarely lasting.  This is a work of stunning research and erudition.  Although there are no deep or brilliant insights to be found here, the depth and scope and the judicious nature of the scholarship make this a must read for anyone who considers himself to be well informed on Constitutional history.	2002-02-06
US	50906518	R2BZMT31VAV9K7	0393049515	62981090	The Dream of Reason: A History of Philosophy from the Greeks to the Renaissance	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Sketchy  General Introduction	Anthony Gottlieb's \\"The Dream of Reason\\" is a fair general survey of philosophy in the ancient world. He does an admirable job in covering the pre-Socratics, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle and the schools of epicureanism, stoicism, and scepticism. His writing is not too detailed for the beginner. Gottlieb falls down, however, in two areas. His all too occasional flip personal comments are not welcome and his coverage of the early and late Middle Ages is really disappointing, as is his treatment of the Renaissance. Here he skims across a few thinkers just to give the appearance that he is treating them seriously (when in fact he is not)and he dwells only on the cultural changes of those eras. Gottlieb's lack of appreciation of the philosophy of the Middle Ages is a reflection upon his lack of appreciation of what philosophy really is.  Don't you know, Mr Gottlieb, that the medieval tradition is every bit as much part of Western culture as the Greek? You cannot hope to understand what it means to be \\"Western\\" without understanding the Middle Ages. Hopefully, his next volume will not suffer from the neglect of thinkers he does not admire nor understand.	2001-12-01
US	50906518	R3SUGMCD4OPGT7	0306807203	672296266	Charles Sumner	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Exhaustive Balanced Biography--extremely well researched	David Herbert Donald's &quot;Charles Sumner&quot; is an exhaustive biography touching all areas of the man's life.  Throughout, Donald is balanced in his treatment of a controversial man who was described, quite accurately by another reviewer, as the country's first &quot;politically correct&quot; politician. As a person I do not think I would have liked Charles Sumner nor agreed with his extremism in many of the positions he took (most other people in the government did not either), but his life is well worth reading about for a fuller understanding of the decades immedaitely prior to and immediately following the Civil War.<br />Donald goes into many speeches, newspaper reports, letters, personal opinions of others, and proposed legislation to give one a real feeling for the man.  His controversial life and opinions give one much to think about regarding the complex issues of race, reconstruction, and society in mid-nineteenth century America. Although this is not the most lively written of biographies, it is judicious and scholarly.  Well worth the time.	2001-11-06
US	50906518	R186YO6T1OHDD7	0297842196	854142897	Cities In Civilization	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A  Masterful Historical Study of Majestic Sweep	Peter Hall's book &quot;Cities in Civilization&quot; is a masterful work with majestic sweep.  Although not meant for everyone, this book provides insights into history and culture like no other.  Hall looks at the golden ages of cities to illuminate their influence on great cultural achievements as well as economic and technological development, and then draws comparisons to discern what it was about these places that enabled them, of all cities, to become what they became at a particular time in history. The  creative bursts of classical Athens, Renaissance Florence, and Shakespearean London are thoroughly discussed and utterly fascinating.  The music of Vienna and the artistic creativity of late 19th and early 20th century Paris are literal courses on Western culture.  The decadence and creative explosion of Weimar Germany is thoroughly explored before Hall turns his attention to industrialization and technology.<br />Hall is especially good, in the midst of his analysis, at discussing various theories of social change from Marx to Schumpeter, and Weber to Harold Innis.  He details the reasons for industrial and technological growth and invention in 18th century Manchester, 19th century Glasgow, and 19th and 20th century Berlin.  His discussion of Detroit and Henry Ford is particularly interesting.  Silicon Valley and Tokyo are also discussed, and never does Hall loses sight of how their creativity permanently affected human civilization.  <br />His section on &quot;The Marriage of Art and Technology&quot; is fundamental to an understanding of mass culture in the 20th and 21st centuries. Hollywood and &quot;The Delta&quot; region around Memphis are discussed for their impact on movies and popular music. These two sections are utterly fascinating.  And his lengthy last section, which some readers may find the least interesting, deals with how many of the world's great cities have adapted to deal with increasing size and changing needs.  Here Hall profiles the changes in the cities themselves, as well as changes in the cultural and social environment, of ancient Rome, and modern London, Paris, New York, Los Angelas, and Stockholm.  The social experimentation in equality and how it affected housing in Sweden is particularly interesting.  <br />All in all, if you have the stamina to read 1,000 pages you will be served a wonderful course on the development of Western culture and material civilization, as well as gain a fuller appreciation for the role of the great city in history. We are all in Sir Peter's debt for his years of study and the preparation of this book.  His erudition and immense learning are greatly appreciated.	2001-10-19
US	50906518	R2GCAVY825EDN8	0750926767	783863546	Neanderthal: Neanderthal Man and the Story of Human Origins	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Heavy on the Fact of Human Evolution, But Not Well Written	Paul Jordan provides a lot of detail as far as comparative anatomy and the location of various discoveries. He, essentially, has his facts straight and, at times, provides the reader with interesting insights and a discussion of the issues. But the book &quot;Neanderthal&quot; is not well organized and his style of writing leaves much to be desired.  His very last chapter, the &quot;epilogue,&quot; is the only one in the book where a readable style is apparent.  Consequently, I would view this more as a reference work as it is not enjoyable reading.  There are many pictures of skulls but almost none have explanitory notes as to what we should be looking for.  One is left searching through text to try to make them useful.  A few explanatory charts or graphs would have been helpful to try to make sense out of the wealth of factual material he presents. And his discussion of the &quot;Out of Africa&quot; vs &quot;Multi-Regional&quot; hypothesis is strewn all over the book and difficult to come to grips with for those uninitiated. His discussions of DNA testing etc can be mind numbing.<br />All in all, I wanted to give this book three stars, but I had to relent and give it four due to its discussion of many of the important issues of human evolution and its wealth of detail.  Oh, and also, if you are looking for something specific to Neanderthals...less than half this book deals with them.  You can do better on Neanderthals with other authors.	2001-09-10
US	50906518	RLKQCFMGAQ99S	0743200233	38409771	Way Out There In the Blue: Reagan, Star Wars and the End of the Cold War	Books	5	17	21	N	N	If the Truth Hurts......	First.....don't listen to any right-wing types who try to portray Frances Fitzgerald as some sort of liberal hack. Second.....buy this book and read it. &quot;Way Out There in the Blue&quot; is an amazingly detailed and straightforward discussion of the Reagan Administration and its foreign policy, specifically in regard to nuclear weapons, anti-missle defense, and strategic arms limitation. While it is true that Fitzgerald has no love for throwing money away on unproven and impractical defense schemes, the book is a fascinating depiction of the chaos and back-stabbing within the Reagan Administration, an administration in which policy advisors were left to make policy and defend their turf because the president would not or could not assert any leadership. As John Sears has said, Reagan's detachment gave his staff enormous powers. &quot;You could do almost anything you wanted and you didn't have to check with anybody. You could do all these amazing things...Reagan wasn't involved....&quot; Although different in focus, this book is far superior to Morris' &quot;Dutch&quot; in its grasp of the real Ronald Reagan.<br />Third, the depictions of Ronald Reagan (despite what his worshippers on the Right may claim) are not those of Fitzgerald, but are the commentaries made by those within the Reagan Administration itself, the people who had to work intimately with him and had to deal with the frustrations of having no leadership at the top. For example; &quot;I had never known anyone so unable to deal with close personal conflict.&quot; (Michael Deaver) &quot;There's a generation gap between what Reagan thinks he knows about the world and the reality. His is a kind of 1952 world. He sees the world in black and white terms.&quot; (John Sears) &quot;There were a lot of ideal worlds in Reagan's mind, and sometimes he lived in them.&quot; (John Sears) In regard to policy decisions, Reagan would say, &quot;That's your business. I'm out here selling it. You tell me.&quot; (JohnSears) &quot;It's very unusual to have a president who is not interested in policy at all.&quot; (Henry Kissinger) &quot;I went all through this reasoning, but he did not understand my investment strategy. For him the idea of anti-missle defenses had an appeal in itself. My own concepts for leveraging Soviet behavior were lost on him.&quot; (Robert McFarlane) &quot;I feel you people are leading the president out on a limb.&quot; (George Shultz) &quot;Reagan totally believed in the science-fiction solution he had proposed without consultation with his secretary of state or his secretary of defense....&quot; (Lou Cannon) &quot;He was never the initiator.&quot; (Helene von Damn) &quot;He made no demands, and gave almost no instructions. Essentially, he just responded to whatever was brought to his attention.... At times he would just change the subject, maybe tell a funny story....&quot; (Martin Anderson) Reagan &quot;chose his aides and then followed their advice almost without question. He listened, acquiesced, played his role and waited for the next act to be written.&quot; (Donald Regan) &quot;An imperceptible bobbing of Reagan's head was supposed to mean that he was pleased with a point, while a slight tightening of the mouth was considered a sign of disapproval. [The staff was left to guess] &quot;whether or not he had any opinion-or any thought-at all.&quot; (Lou Cannon) Reagan was &quot;among the least analytical and most unread of presidents.&quot; (Lou Cannon) When Les Aspin asked Ken Adelman who spoke for the administration, his answer was, &quot;Everyone.&quot; Poindexter had told Reagan so many different stories that &quot;this sort of confused the Presidential mind as to what he could say and couldn't say....&quot; (Donald Regan) <br />Well, one could quote endlessly like this, but this is not the point. The point is, read this book. You will find it a fascinating look at the end of the Cold War and the various positions staked out over nuclear weapons and anti-missle systems...worth understanding as the George W administration is reviving it big time. It is, at the same time, a fascinating look at the mind of President Reagan and the mind-sets of his advisors that helps dispel the Right-wing myths surrounding his administration. This is so timely because most of the characters are still around...including Richard Perle who has re-surfaced in the George W Administration. Five stars without question.	2001-09-06
US	50906518	R8FZFF364BSXI	014029323X	298458510	The Greek Achievement: The Foundation of the Western World	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Nice General Survey That Lacks Interpretive Insight	Charles Freeman's &quot;The Greek Achievement&quot; is a solid survey of the culture and achievements of ancient Greece. It is packed with information and may, at times, be a little overwhelming for those not familiar with the subject...especially as it does not pull together and develop any one aspect of Greek history. But, as to its purpose, Freeman does a commendable job and this book should be read by anyone interested in ancient Greece. My only arguments with Freeman are that he doesn't develop the rise of independent agriculture to explain the change in culture that took place at the end of the Greek Dark Age, and that he somewhat misses the boat on the relationships between men and women. During the Greek Dark Age, for example, he reveals that women of the higher classes &quot;have a status of their own, as acceptable marriage partners...and also as overseerers of the domestic arrangements of the household, the oikos, but often there is found something more, the adulation of a woman for herself....&quot; Women were often viewed as goddesses in ancient Greece. But, in his chapter on relationships between the sexes, Freeman never seems quite sure just what the real situation is. He seems to imply that this situation changed dramatically somehow and that the status of women declined. Then he acknowledges that &quot;as so often, the Athenian evidence may not be typical of women's lives in Greece as a whole.&quot; The chapter, as a whole, is very weak and gives far too much credence to the absurd views of the radical feminist writer Eva Keul. One should start learning about this subject by reading Thornton's &quot;Eros: The Myth of Ancient Greek Sexuality.&quot; All in all, however, Freeman does a nice job and is to be commended for his summation of a vast amount of material despite little originality.	2001-08-29
US	50906518	R3L49SAUMF02PF	0674364465	13495587	The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Comprehensive and Fascinating Journey	Ernst Mayr's comprehensive history of biological thought is nothing less than the story of man's discovery of his own place in nature. Mayr goes back centuries in this fascinating detective story of man's attempt to make sense of all the similarities and all the diversity of organic life, as well as the changes in life forms and the makeup of the earth as found in the geological record. Mankind's attempts to understand life forms through their categorization is fully discussed. Mayr is exceptionally good in his lengthy review of evolutionary thought and brings it up to date throught the century following Darwin. He ends by dealing with the problem of inheritance and the development of genetic theory which is brought up through the discovery of the double helix structure of DNA. Throughout the work Mayr retains a focus on the place of biological thought in the history of science. He clearly shows how historians and philosophers of science have made serious errors by assuming that physics and mathematics present the perfect models for the &quot;scientific method.&quot; He illustrates how biological understanding does not often fit those paradigms. A real strength of his book is how he develops the &quot;conceptual&quot; universe of thinkers and researchers as they struggled with the problems posed by biological diversity and change. &quot;In biological science,&quot; he says, &quot;our understanding of the world is achieved more effectively by conceptual improvements than by the discovery of new facts.&quot; Pertinent here is what he refers to as the &quot;strait jacket of Plato's essentialism&quot; that influenced thinking right into the 20th century. He also demonstrates why it was so important that biologists began to ask &quot;why?&quot; instead of simply &quot;how?&quot; One particular hi-lite of Mayr's book is his &quot;rehabilitation&quot; of the reputation of Jean Baptiste Lamarck who is so often disparaged in texts which use him as &quot;the&quot; example ofall that was wrong with biological thinking prior to Darwin. Mayr clearly shows the power of Lamarck's thought and reveals that he, more than anyone, &quot;discovered the Achilles heel of natural theology&quot; with his insight that &quot;a species must likewise change forever in order to remain in harmonious balance with the environment.&quot; This book is not a quick read as it is packed with information. But it is a fascinating detective story that should be seen as required reading for any educated individual. It is often hard to put it down as one is constantly looking forward to seeing how men solved the various problems of biological change and the nature of organic life.	2001-08-27
US	50906518	R36GF3MRE3NZPC	0393047458	42081972	God's Funeral: The Decline of Faith in Western Civilization	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Not a Tightly Woven Intellectual History	&quot;God's Funeral&quot; by A. N. Wilson is an idiosyncratic journey through the lives of various intellectuals of the 18th and 19th centuries.  In the process Wilson cannot seem to make up his mind as to whether he wishes to investigate their influence regarding the 19th century's loss of faith in God (Hume and Kant) or whether he wishes to merely look at the more personal side of these people and depict their own intellectual crisis. In the end he tends more toward the biographical and the book seems more a collection of brief vignettes on the lives and personal crises of people like Thomas Carlyle, John Stuart Mill, Ernest Renan, Benjamin Jowett, Algernon Swinburne, George Eliot, and William James.  The work is far from being an intellectual history.  <br />That being said, &quot;God's Funeral&quot; is worth reading and in many respects quite interesting.  It does present the more personal side of the 19th century's loss of faith. The crisis for these intellectuals is found in their question, &quot;How could one be a Christian without committing intellectual suicide?&quot;  Wilson demonstrates a sensitivity to their dilemma and the intellecual capacity to comprehend their ideas and milieu.  (The only exception to this is his complete misunderstanding of Freud and his legacy!).  Still, I would recommend the book as light but interesting reading.	2001-08-22
US	50906518	R2EVVMKYDNM9NT	157322751X	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Idiosyncratic, But Always Fascinating	Harold Bloom's book &quot;Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human&quot; is not a book which carefully follows the plot of each play and delineates the characters.  Instead, it represents Bloom's insight into the characters he finds most unique and those with the most complex and changing personalities, or as Bloom says, with the most &quot;inwardness.&quot;  His mission is to highlight Shakespeare's great accomplishment in the &quot;invention of the human&quot; personality.  One does not necessarily have to accept Bloom's belief, as to the degree that Shakespearean literature has made us what we are, to be fascinated by what he says.  But, one would have to be brain-dead not to find great insight into the world of Shakespeare from a reading of this work.  Bloom will upset those who have attained their understanding of Shakespeare from the School of Resentment, ie, the radical feminists, the pseudo-Marxists, and the followers of Foucault and his ilk as he makes quick work of their absurdities.<br />Bloom shows how Shakespeare's greatest characters &quot;reconceive themselves&quot; through new modes of consciousness and, through his characters, Shakespeare has taught us to understand human nature.  He reveals that for &quot;Hamlet, the self is an abyss, the chaos of virtual nothingness. For Falstaff, the self is everything.&quot;  &quot;Shakespeare teaches us how and what to perceive.&quot;  Bloom consistently reveals how &quot;the uncanniness of nihilism haunts almost every play&quot; as Shakespeare's characters deal with who they are in a world that threatens us with internal emptiness. Human relationships, familial love, the struggle between the sexes, passion and value systems are all thrown into question.  More than any other, Shakespeare has taught us to take a deep look at the human condition.  This is the essence of Bloom's thinking.  <br />In sum, this is not the &quot;essential&quot; Shakespearean commentary.  But, it is a fascinating and insightful work that should be read.	2001-08-09
US	50906518	R2TM1YP66XGCXZ	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	5	34	41	N	N	Sets the Standard for All Other Books on Jesus	The scholarly and fascinating book &quot;The Jesus Puzzle&quot; by Earl Doherty sets the standard by which all other Jesus books must be measured (and books on Paul for that matter!). For too long biblical scholars have taken it for granted (even as they flush out a picture of a mortal and more human Jesus) that a real Jesus of Nazareth walked the earth and it was about this historical person that the ancient scribes wrote. Now, thanks to Earl Doherty, we at last have a work that clears the air and shows how the &quot;Jesus story&quot; was put together by the early Christians. Suddenly, all the contradictions within the Bible and the conflicting depictions of Jesus make sense when one sees them from this perspective, i.e., they came from various traditions and from authors who had different aims.<BR>Doherty's evidence reveals that the earliest writers (as Paul and the other writers of various epistles) nowhere mention a real live person called Jesus. Paul believed &quot;in&quot; the Son of God and not that anyone &quot;was&quot; the Son of God. Paul never gives us a single saying attributed to a historical Jesus. Doherty is steeped in Greek philosophy and metaphysics as well and shows how Paul was not only very much a Jew, but a Jew heavily influenced by Greek mythology and metaphysics. His discussion of the Hellenistic/Jewish conception of the universe is brilliant. Without understanding this, you can never hope to understand what Paul and the Son of God movement centered in Jerusalem believed in. Doherty goes on to show how an earthly kingdom movement, a counter-culture set in Palestine developed and he follows it through changes in the Q community. Eventually, of course, it was Mark who sought to merge the various strands of belief into a gospel of the living Christ. But this took time to catch on and one is amazed when Doherty shows that as late as 90-120 C.E. many people, then referring to themselves as Christians, still knew nothing of a Jesus who lived and walked the earth. This is must reading for anyone interested in the Jesus movement and the Bible. Your view of early Christianity will be forever changed. You will have a standard by which to measure all other scholarship.	2001-08-03
US	50906518	R12PY8V3I8C1KO	0195134745	224485680	Reinventing Paul	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Brilliant Insight, But Only Half the Story	John Gager's book &quot;Reinventing Paul&quot; is a long overdue summation of the latest insights into Paul's beliefs and his mission to the Gentiles.  Gager and the others are helping to clear away 2,000 years of Christian perversion of Paul's thinking and activity.  Here Gager shows that Paul was very much a Jew and remained anchored within the Jewish tradition.  He did not repudiate the law of Moses, he did not argue that God had rejected Israel, his enemies were not Jews outside his movement, but opponents within, and he did not expect Jews to abandon the Law and find salvation through Jesus the Christ.  <br />Gager goes to great lengths to show that the debate over circumcision, or whether Gentiles needed to &quot;become&quot; Jewish and themselves followers of the Law, was at the center of the great controversy.  Ultimately, of course, Paul said, &quot;No.&quot;  Paul believed that a spiritual Christ had arrived and could be experienced through faith as the End Time was near.  This has happened as a result of God's promise to Abraham that the Gentiles will also be saved.  Faith in Christ is the Gentile's way to salvation, while the Jews retain their Law and covenant with God.  Paul's doctrine, in other words, is one of inclusion, not exclusion.  <br />Gager does a solid job of proving his points and his reinventing of Paul is long overdue, but the author leaves a few loose ends.  He does not go into Paul's vision of the Son and what implications this has for Christianity.  If Paul held that the saving experience is &quot;faith&quot; in God's righteousness and justice as manifest through a spiritual Christ, and that Jews can be saved even without the belief in Christ, what does this say of the Christian belief that a living Jesus walked the earth and performed a redemptive act to save mankind?  Paul obviously never believed in it!  Yet, Gager is silent on these issues.  A sound book, in other words, as far as it goes, but it answers only half the questions concerning Paul and his vision.  But, this is an important book that needs to be read.	2001-08-03
US	50906518	R3B72LDE83YI5S	0226616517	358916697	The Great Melody: A Thematic Biography of Edmund Burke	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A Scholarly and Tightly Woven Study	&quot;The Great Melody&quot; by Conor Cruise O'Brien is not your traditional biography; there is little here concerning Burke's personal and family life.  Instead, the work concentrates on Burke's political career and thought and, specifically, how they relate to his Irish heritage.  The result is a fascinating look into the mind and personality of a man who suffered from a conflict of emotions over his Irish heritage that included his father's conversion to Protestantism while his mother and wife remained Catholic.  Burke himself was torn in different directions his entire life; loyalty to Britain and also his Irish ancestors and friends suffering under the Penal Laws, loyalty to the British constitution, but also a deep feeling for the need of justice for the oppressed people at home and abroad.<br />O'Bien's book takes an in-depth look at Burke's career in parliament and as a member of the Whig party through an extensive analysis of his letters, speeches, political relationships, and writings, specifically, as they relate to his struggle on behalf of the American colonists, the struggle of the Irish Catholics, the people of India suffering at the hands of the rapacious East India Co., and the French Revolution.  <br />The work can be a little dry at times and tends to quote in an overly lengthy manner, but the immense erudition and scholarship and the insightful picture of Burke that emerges more than compensate for this.  I do wish, however, that O'Brien had spent more time on &quot;Reflections On The Revolution in France,&quot; but he feels that since it is so readily available to the reader there is no need. Finally we see an Edmund Burke as he really was and not the &quot;old reactionary&quot; that is so often depicted.  We come to understand that Burke always believed that &quot;the people are the true legislator,&quot; that Burke did not want to see Americans in Parliament who were slave holders, that he was a life-long opponent of increased powers for theCrown and the corruption such power entailed, that he was one of the few who consistently fought against injustice toward the American colonials, that he found all authoritaianism abhorrent, and that he opposed commercial monopolies and the abuse of power in all its forms.  But, because he opposed the overturning of society and its reengineering on the basis of &quot;metaphysical abstractions,&quot; he was often portrayed as a reactionary by later pundits.  Lewis Namier and his followers are particularly taken to task by O'Brien for this tendency.  In the end we see a Burke who always supported basic human rights, but remained constantly aware that real life circumstances must make social and political change possible if such change is not to lead to chaos and violence.  Burke's fear of radicalism based upon abstract theory was real and the destructiveness of the French Revolution, the Russian Revolution, and the Nazi bio-racial religion more than sufficiently proves his point.  A reading of O'Brien's fine book can only lead the intelligent reader to a renewed respect for a great man, a decent and liberal minded man, and a man of immense vision.	2001-07-24
US	50906518	R3DV0MZPYV75G5	0393048799	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	1	27	49	N	N	If &quot;Hype is Life,&quot; Berman is Symptomatic of the Problem	Callow and disappointing are the two words that come to mind as one reads this book.  While Berman is able to identify some features of the decline in American culture (e.g., hype is life, the pervasiveness of kitsch, the absurdities of radical feminist thought, postmodernism and deconstruction, a media that works against depth and self-reflection, the commodification of knowledge, the egalitarian dismissal of excellence, the vision of a totally administered world, multiculturalism worshipped to the point of pathology, and the corporate control of a consumer culture), his book is nothing more that an example of this mindless drivel. Berman nowhere gives us any indepth insight into these problems. The author, instead, quotes endlessly from history in an attempt to impress the uninformed reader, but he obviously has little understanding of history itself.  His learning is a mile wide and an inch deep. <br />Berman quotes from an array of authors who, for the most part, also live in a fantasy land and share his utopian expectations. He does attack the New Age thinkers, but his ideas are closely connected with their thinking.  Consequently, this book has no meat, no substance!  Berman, for example, will repeatedly make derogatory comments about CNN and other news organizations, but nowhere does the illustrious Mr. Berman ever tell us just what &quot;real&quot; news is.  Just what is it that these organizations should be putting on the air, Mr Berman? <br />Mr Berman talks about the growing gap between the rich and the poor as if this were something new in history and a sign of America's decline.  But, when was there not an extreme gap between rich and poor?  In the 1880's?  In 1776?  He laments the poor education of a large segment of the population.  When was this not the case?  In 1920?  In 1830?  Give me a break!  And let's also make it clear, when Berman speaks of his ridiculous notion of the &quot;monastic option&quot; which will save what is of value in our culture from the coming collapse, doesn't he realize that it has always been a small percentage of the population that preserves and advances high culture in the first place?  If Mr. Berman took the time to walk through one of those chain book stores he is so quick to condemn, he would surely notice a couple book shelves full of works on and by Shakespeare.  If you listen to Mr. Berman with his ad nauseam quoting of history, you would be left with the impression that all the French peasants in the eighteenth century were reading Voltaire.  <br />In the end, Berman is both shallow and confused.  He even, at one point, acknowledges that &quot;the meaning of collapse is in the eye of the beholder.&quot;  What is this?  An author who pretends to inform us as to the &quot;twilight of American culture&quot; leaves us with the heady thought that the crisis is all in the eye of the beholder!  Save your time and save your money.  What we have here is just another example of &quot;hype&quot; masquerading as scholarship. Berman himself is nothing but a symptom of the decline he so laments.	2001-07-13
US	50906518	R2CKAL9MON5AA6	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	72	74	N	N	A Great Summation of the Effects of Nazi Destructiveness	&quot;The Third Reich: A New History&quot; does not emphasize Hitler , nor the politics or personalities within the Nazi party itself, and, consequently, Burleigh rushes through the Nazi seisure of power.  The book, rather, concentrates on the impact National Socialism had on the lives of people both within Germany and throughout Europe.  To learn about Hitler, the Nazi organization itself, or how Hitler molded the party to his will, you will need to go to other sources; Bracher, Stern, and Kershaw, for example.  But to read about the destructive effects the Nazi regime had on the lives of everday people, there is no better source than this new book.  As one reviewer remarked, Burleigh has demonstrated an &quot;extraordinary mastery of an immense monographic literature.&quot;  Through it all Burleigh maintains a judicious and balanced approach to his subject, yet he does not hesitate to pass judgment.  Burleigh's keen and always balanced evaluation and insight make the work more than a mere compilation.  <br />Early on he presents an excellent analysis of the various classes, occupations, and professions and why National Socialism appealed to them.  With keen psychological and sociological insight he is excellent in his presentation of the various Nazi strategies for appealing to the differences in people.  He shows, for example, how the Nazis were selective in their use of antisemitism.  Yet, the heart of Burleigh's book is what he considers the defining characteristic of the Nazi experience; &quot;the supercession of the rule of law by arbitrary police terror.&quot;  He is strong on the Nazi approach to the law and the politicization of the police.  He is strong on the Nazi attempt to purge what they believed are the &quot;Jewish elements&quot; within Christianity and the degrading effects the Nazi regime had on the churches and the clergy.  Burleigh reveals the effects of the Anschluss on radicalizing Nazi anitsemitic policies, but he also clearly reveals that there were many other groups singled out for persecution and elimination than the Jews.  The author is especially good at describing the Nazi euthanasia program in regard to the disabled and retarded.  <br />The author is also very strong in his discussion of the occupation of various parts of Europe and how Nazi policies differed from country to country.  He reveals the extent to which the occupied countries engaged in their own ethnic housecleaning once the Nazi invasion undermined their stability.  Through it all Burleigh does not condemn the German people as such, he doesn't portray them as morally bankrupt beings of a kind different than you and me.  To the contrary, he reveals how the German people became the &quot;emotional casualties of their own actions.&quot;  He illustrates how good people felt corrupted by the Nazi regime and how people struggled with conflicting emotions under the terrible circumstances they found themselves caught up in.  In the end the Germans became a people &quot;bathed in narcissistic ethno-sentimentality.&quot;  This was central to the problem then, and it is still a problem in today's world.  <br />Burleigh is not one to demonstrate the &quot;positive&quot; impact the Nazi regime had on Germany.  Any success in the sphere of economic recovery was purchased at a heavy cost.  Throughout the work the author cleary demonstrates the depravity and destructiveness of the Nazi's bankrupt ideology which, centered around the &quot;supercession of the rule of law,&quot; became a substitute secular religion based upon bio-racial concepts.  The destructiveness of the Nazi regime is always kept at center stage.  There is no better summation of the brutality and savagery visited upon everyday people by the Nazis.	2001-07-10
US	50906518	R1MRLURLG8PCH0	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A Sweeping Interpretation of  Western Culture	Jacques Barzun's book &quot;From Dawn to Decadence&quot; is not a book for the casual reader who knows little of his past; there is simply too much to overwhelm the uninformed.  The well read, on the other hand, may find it somewhat unsatisfying, at times, as Barzun covers so much ground that one continuously begs for more detail which rarely is forthcoming.  That said, even the most knowledgable will find subjects of interest in this book, and Barzun's interpretation of the development and decline of Western culture is certainly worth understanding.<br />Barzun takes what he believes are the essential features of Western life, i.e., emancupation, individualism, secularism, self-consciousness, analysis, the free market in ideas, the notion of progress, specialization and abstraction and shows how their development led to revolutionary charges and brilliance.  Those who criticize Barzun for a &quot;conservative&quot; outlook would do well to remember that the author understands how positive the &quot;revolutionary&quot; changes in the West have been in many respects. These features of Western culture have led to achievements of the highest order.  But, Barzun also comprehends the tendency for people to descend into &quot;primitivism&quot; and, when this is coupled with the extremes of secularization, self-consciousness, analysis, individualism, and specialization, the culture becomes decadent with its loss of vision and vitality.  This has been clearly evident for half a century.  All values and ideals, when carried to their logical extreme, negate themselves.  Let us remember that the past fifty years or so has given us Andy Warhol, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, and others of that ilk. The signs of decadence are all around if you care to look.  Barzun has examines the trends of Western cultural life for over 500 years and his analysis is to be respected and listened to.  And, yes, we should be concerned.	2001-06-24
US	50906518	R1H96S8QKWOXLT	0871137305	530997578	The Earth Shall Weep: A  History of Native America	Books	2	82	141	N	N	The Earth Shall Weep for Good  Scholarship	&quot;The Earth Shall Weep&quot; is not a bad survey if one knows little of the history of the American Indians and you are especially interested in how the evil white man crushed the peace loving, non-acquisitive and gentle &quot;children of nature.&quot;  If this is what you want to learn about you could do worse than Wilson, but ultimately, this kind of one-sided history does a disservice to the reader.  Every people has been victim and oppressor at one time or another, yet Wilson makes no attempt to deal with this essential fact of life. Wilson is no scholar, but merely an informed writer with a special interest in the confrontation between the Indian and the white man.  His book does not even begin to approach the requirements for good historical writing and the reader is left with the impression that the Indians rarely fought with or dispaced one another.  The dynamics of life on the Indian frontier are completely absent from this book as is any semblence of fairness toward white people.  <br />This book cannot rightfully be subtitled &quot;A History of Native America&quot; as it is more a story of the most conspicuous examples of white people doing harm to the Indians. Surely a history of Native American should include facts about Indian life and customs other than &quot;creation mythology.&quot;  Surely, Wilson could have treated the Shawnee, Ottawas, Ojibwas, Apache, Blackfoot, Utes, and the Comanche to a page or two!  But, his agenda does not include most of these peoples who evidently don't fit the profile.  The dynamics of tribal life among the various peoples, one would think, are important to a &quot;history of Native America,&quot; yet, these are almost completely absent from the work, while ample space is given to the deeds of Indian haters like John Chivington. The lives of great Indian men and women are evidently of little importance to Wilson, but the deaths of Indians at the hands of whites seem central to his narrative.  Noteworthy Native Americans like Tecumseh, The Prophet, Little Turtle, Handsome Lake, Quanah Parker, Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse, Joseph Brant Pontiac, and Sequoyah are hardly mentioned in Wilson's book, while Chato, Nana, Victorio and his exceptional sister Lozen, Manuelito, Geronimo, Cochise, Osceola, and Sacajawea are nowhere mentioned. Wilson says virtually nothing about the Hopewell, Adenas, Anazazi people, or the great Mississippi culture and its metropolis of Cahokia.  Because they were not slaughtered by white men, I guess, Wilson didn't consider it necessary to include them.  <br />A central feature of Wilson's book is the extensive use of quotation from white men who despised the Indians and thought &quot;the only good Indian is a dead one.&quot;  Wilson is not balanced or scholarly enough to realize that most Indians who hated whites and spat venom, unlike their white counterparts, did not leave a paper trail.  In Wilson's world, all racism seems to flow one way. Nowhere are men like Tom Jeffords mentioned or the fact that Abraham Lincoln personally intervened to save the lives of hundreds of Indians at the conclusion of &quot;Little Crow's War.&quot;  <br />If you are looking for a summary of the most terrible treatment the Indian was dealt by the white man, then Wilson's book can provide you with a good start.  But, if you want a genuine history of Native America, you had better look elsewhere.	2001-06-10
US	50906518	R2TK1OPKKN0LYE	0195055446	965162885	The Rise and Fall of the American Whig Party: Jacksonian Politics and the Onset of the Civil War	Books	5	40	40	N	N	The Definitive Word on Jacksonian Politics	It can clearly be said that Michael Holt's book &quot;The Rise and Fall of the American Whig Party&quot; is the last word on the subject.  This exhaustive, deeply analytical, and immensely detailed work is the ultimate history of the American Whig party.  Yet, it is much more than that: as William Gienapp has written, it is &quot;one of the most important books on nineteenth-century politics ever written.&quot;  Yes, it is somewhat dry at times and often repetitious.  Yes, there are many charts and statistics, and as one Amazon reviewer suggested, these are best ignored.  This book is certainly not a quick read and you had better be in love with political history before tackling it.  But, the rewards for the patient reader are immense.  You will come away from this experience with an understanding of American politics you can gain nowhere else.  <br />The deeply learned Holt ties political history to the changing social, religious, economic, and cultural life of nineteenth-century America and exposes the ethnic conflicts in American life and how they influenced the fortunes of the Whig and Democratic parties.  His persistent theme is that the origins and successes of the Whig party depended upon the state of its rivalry with the Democratic party, and once the issues that separated the two parties lost their urgency, the Whig party lost much of its support and its reason for being.  A secondary theme is that &quot;politics is local&quot; and that we cannot understand the history of the Whig or the Democratic party without understanding the local and state issues that shaped their rivalry.  Real politicians dealing with real local and regional issues and fighting for political patronage set the tone everywhere.  Most decisions were not passed down from Washington.  As a result, Holt's book roams far and wide analyzing the politcal struggles within the states.  <br />Particularly interesting is the stress politicians put on state and federal patronage as the reward forparty loyalty.  Sectionalism and slavery, of course, eventually assume center stage, but always within the context of the particular political struggles among the forces within the various states.  Holt's examination of the struggle over the Wilmot Proviso, the Compromise of 1850, and the damage done to the Whig and Democratic parties by the Kansas-Nebraska Act is nothing short of brilliant. Also profound is his analysis of how prohibitionism and the rise of the anti-Catholic, anti-immigrant Know Nothing movement sent the Whig party to its grave.  These insightful chapters will give any reader a more profound understanding of exactly what was taking place  prior to the Civil War in American political life.  We have Michael Holt to thank for providing us with a more complex, yet well-rounded picture of the causes leading to civil war.  One may be surprised to discover that many of the Whigs in the antebellum South held out hope for a party of national union longer than most of the Whigs in the North.  We all owe Michael Holt a debt of gratitude for his summation of a lifetime of learning.  &quot;The Rise and Fall of the American Whig Party&quot; will remain an indispensable reference for anyone interested in the politics of antebellum America.	2001-05-06
US	50906518	R314KKNOXE8BXD	0805025340	870212185	W.E.B. Du Bois: The Fight for Equality and the American Century 1919-1963	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Volume Two of the Magisterial Life and Times	With volume two Lewis completes his magisterial work chronicling the life and times of the controversial W. E. B. Du Bois, and this second volume is every bit as fascinating and scholarly as the first one which won the Pulitzer Prize.  This volume follows Du Bois' descent from a founder and spokesman for the NAACP to his self-imposed exile in Ghana in 1963.  Throughout the journey Lewis thoroughly develops the changing viewpoints Du Bois put forth as solutions to the problems of racial discrimination and the powerlessness of people of color in this country and around the world.  From an integrationist (who at the same time criticized the assimilationist attitude of Frederick Douglas), Du Bois moved into the Pan-Africa movement (although he disliked and opposed Marcus Garvey and his movement), and eventually supported Black separatism before settling on socialism and Marxism in the later years of his life.  His &quot;petty bourgeois&quot; ideas concerning Black economic separatism were, of course, vehemently criticized by his Marxist friends.  Many believed &quot;Du Bois was a romantic, a racialist, and an old man given to dreams of a 'shopkeepers paradise' as a solution to the depression.&quot;  <br />Although Lewis soft-pedals Du Bois' deep character flaws which caused him to be constantly at odds with others who were &quot;on his side&quot; in the fight for racial equality, and permitted him to excuse the murder and outrages of Stalinism and the Japanese military aggression and ethnic cleansing in Asia, the author clearly reveals these facts of Du Bois' life.  Lewis reveals how Du Bois' mind became so poisoned with a visceral hatred of White power, and its adjunct Western capitalism, that he eventually reached the point where he could look the other way or excuse the outrages committed by peoples or regimes opposed to Western interests (which he never seemed to quite grasp were really his own interests and those of the Negro in America).  In the end Du Bois seemedopposed to almost any policy his country adopted and he supported any force in the world (be it Pan-Africanism, Bolshevism, Japanese militarism, or Chinese communism) that opposed the interests of the &quot;White governments.&quot;  Thus, did a brilliant social critic end up a confused mind destined to play the role of a pawn for regimes opposed to Western interests.  <br />Lewis is very good at highlighting Du Bois' conflict with Marcus Garvey of whom he draws a great character sketch.  He points out that Garvey's early followers were often poor, less educated, and often of West Indian origins, while the more &quot;elitist&quot; Du Bois circulated among, and pretended to speak for, the Talented Tenth of the African American people.  Du Bois was an elitist and intellectual who could not stomach the irrational pronouncements of Marcus Garvey.  Du Bois' viewpoint was that of the Black urban, educated, professional.  <br />Lewis is also very strong with detail concerning Du Bois' widening differences with the NAACP leadership and the association's approach to fighting for equality.  Du Bois was not a great fan of Walter White, Roy Wilkins, and Thurgood Marshall who, with their legalistic approach, stressed working within the &quot;White system.&quot; As in volume one, Lewis does a good job of discussing Du Bois' many writings and shows how Du Bois himself (as witnessed by his &quot;The Gift of Black Folks&quot;) never outgrew his own racial stereotyping.  Lewis also soft-pedals Du Bois' many affairs with intellectual women, but he does document these relationships.  He shows how Du Bois, a believer in the rights of women, virtually abandoned his wife Nina over a period of many years in almost every sense but financial (many of his friends and intellectual acquanitances never met his wife) and how he was less than a father to his unfortunate daughter Yolande (who was one of the great disappointments of his life.)  <br />Lewis' book is possibly most fascinating when hedeals with the Harlem Renaissance and the various figures with whom Du Bois was familiar.  He details Du Bois' eventual alienation from the creative people of this era who depicted the seediness of Black urban life and culture.  This too realistic depiction of Black life by the Renaissance literary figures embarrassed and angered Du Bois who wanted to believe that the &quot;Negro race&quot; was destined for a special place in history and, as a race, manifest certain elements of racial superiority.  Du Bois criticized the Harlem Renaissance writers, poets, and artists for not sharing his belief that art and culture should serve racial politics.  As Lewis shows, &quot;Du Bois's own deep anti-modernist taboos surfaced&quot; in his criticism of the Renaissance literati.  Lewis also spends a good deal of time on the historiography of the Reconstruction Era to enable his reader to grasp the importance of Du Bois' writings on the subject and how they served as a necessary correction (despite Du Bois' own one-sidedness and exaggerated claims) to the more traditional school of historical writing on the Reconstruction Era.  He also reveals the extent to which Du Bois would never give up the ridiculous notion that the freed slaves saved democracy in America.  He desperatly needed to find a special role for the African American in the history of the the great country.  Despite Du Bois' brilliant intellect, it was his tendency to see &quot;White&quot; hatred of the Negro as the central paradigm of all modern history, that prevented him from being widely accepted as a scholar.  For him, all historical understanding began with this simple fact.  Often his own worst enemy, Du Bois, Lewis tells us, &quot;managed to give the impression that racial discrimination had been invented soley to make his life miserable.&quot;  <br />In the end, Du Bois felt the American Negro had let him down and he lost his faith in the special role the Negro was to play in history.  As he himself admitted, &quot;I misinterpreted the age in which I lived.&quot;  One has to think that this disillusionment played as much a role in his decision to leave the country as any other reason.  All in all, Lewis' biography portrays Du Bois as not so much a heroic figure, as a tragic one; a brilliant mind warped by a troubled soul that was the reflection of much of the pain experienced by an educated African American in the first half of the twentieth century.	2001-04-15
US	50906518	R11PFY56U1YQS1	0805035680	870212185	W. E. B. Du Bois, 1868-1919: Biography of a Race (Owl Books)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A Magisterial Study of the Struggles of a Man and His Race	Prior to reading volume one of David Lewis' &quot;W.E.B. Du Bois:Biography of a Race&quot; I was somewhat puzzled by the subtitle.  But the significance of the subtitle becomes clear as one progresses through the book because Lewis does a wonderful job of tying Du Bois' life, thought, personality, and political activity to the evolving fortunes of African Americans as a people.  Like all great biographies this one places Du Bois squarely in his social and historical environment.  The result is that one gains deep insight into the plight of African America in the Age of Jim Crow as well as the various divisions within that community over strategies for dealing with the greater society.<br />This magisterial work is not a book for the casual reader who wants little more than a few facts about the life of W.E.B. Du Bois.  It is a complex tapestry of a troubled man who saw himself as &quot;the avatar of a race whose troubled fate he was predestined to interpret and direct.&quot;  Lewis clearly wishes to show how Du Bois was &quot;the incomparable mediator of the wounded souls of black people.&quot;  This is a very rich and full biography.  There are many asides and digressions as Lewis takes the reader into the troubled world of the educated African American at the end of the nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth.  The conflicts and turmoil among Du Bois' &quot;Talented Tenth&quot; are vividly brought to the fore as the struggle between the Tuskegee Machine of Booker Washington and the more &quot;radical&quot; Du Bois faction takes center stage.<br />Du Bois' development and personal history are thoroughly covered as are all his important writings.  He is shown to be a high-energy, brilliant man who was terribly frustrated and somewhat warped by the lack of intellectual and professional respect afforded him by the dominant white society.  Du Bois is revealed to be a very human, if rather arrogant, and at times, hypocritical individual.  He never outgrew, for instance, the racial stereotyping he learned at the German universities.  Throughout his life he retained a deep ambivalence about Western civilization, almost a love-hate relationship that eventually fed his Afro-centrist delusions.  Beneath it all one senses a degree of racial self-hatred at work.  At times Du Bois waxes between practical political proposals for the United States and a quite utopian or mystical view of the possibilities of the colored people around the world.  Along the way the reader is introduced to an amazing number of fascinating people involved in philanthropy and the early civil rights movement.  John and Lugenia Hope, the poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, early founders of the N.A.A.C.P. like Oswald Villard, Joel Spingarn, and Mary Ovington, and the irrepressible William Monroe Trotter are just a few of the individuals who rightly have their lives celebrated in this eye-opening account.  <br />Lewis is especially strong in depicting the limitations of the viewpoint and the activity of the white philanthropists and the developing conflicts between white organized labor and the poor black migrants moving to the northern cities during the &quot;Great Migration.&quot;  Throughout Lewis demonstrates total command of the material as well as a comprehension of philosophy, history, and the issues of the day.  Overall, this is a marvelous look at the life of an important and complicated man as well as the evolving fortunes of the African American community.  Lewis has given us a balanced and fair assessment of Du Bois the man and scholar.  And, along the way, he provides a ringing indictment of much of American life in the one hundred years following the Civil War.  This Pulitzer Prize winning work is a book for the patient and learned reader, but a book that returns great rewards.  There are few, if any, books that so thoroughly document the struggle for civil rights in this country from the perspective of America's educated black community.	2001-03-03
US	50906518	R30H14EE1S0GG7	0060194480	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492 to the Present	Books	3	41	63	N	N	The Politics of Victimization as History	Howard Zinn's book, &quot;A People's History of the United States&quot; consciously tells the story of the United States from the standpoint of its underclasses.  This is a story that should be told and I do not argue with this; for too long this perspective has been ignored in history books or given merely passing reference.  Zinn generally does a good job of raising our awareness of the history of oppression and how the United States government has served the interests of the wealthy, but most of what he says is not new and one should expect few revelations.  I would agree with the reviewer who said that this kind of history may have seemed fresh thirty years ago, but seems a litle pedestrian nowadays.  <br />Where Zinn is particularly poignant, as one might expect, is in his discussion of the robber barons and the industrial strife of the late 19th century.  There is much useful information to be found here.  His discussion of socialism and the labor unrest of the 20th century is also good as is his writing on the Spanish- American War and the spread of U. S. business interests abroad.  His chapter on Vietnam is right on.  He does an excellent job of exposing corporate influence on our political life.  Although his remarks on U. S. imperialism in the mid and late 20th century are welcome, his viewpoint sometimes borders on the ridiculous.  His understanding of the importance of the U. S. role as the only superpower is apparently nil.  And, nowhere else have I seen the Gulf War against Saddam Hussein's aggression sound more like an imperialistic and evil act.  <br />Despite Zinn's antipathy for capitalism and what it has wrought, his history is not genuinely radical as he would like to think.  Zinn is so preoccupied with portraying the victims of capitalism and Western civilization that he fails to provide a genuine critique of capitalism or the institutional structures it has spawned in America.  One never gains insight into how capitalism dominates all classes of society, not just the most oppressed, and how it has conditioned our culture with its class conflict, materialism, acquisitiveness, and dedication to ordering the temporal aspects of our lives.  Lacking anything but the most superficial insight into the workings of the &quot;system,&quot; Zinn is, of course, unable to provide any solutions to the problems he so ardently exposes.  And nowhere, of course, does he balance his portrayal of victimization with a discussion of the extent to which our capitalist economy has led to a high standard of living for the bulk of the population, along with unparalleled freedom.  He never discusses the rise of the great middle class in America because his is not truly a &quot;people's&quot; history; it is a &quot;victim's&quot; history.  Zinn also has a hard time reconciling his antipathy for the search by U. S. business for foreign markets with the fact that most of our laboring people welcomed this as necessary to their own well-being.  And nowhere does he discuss the great strides made in public health, a topic you would think germane to a &quot;people's&quot; history!<br />Zinn also exaggerates the extent of the &quot;sexual revolution&quot; and seems to assume that the loosening of controls is, ipso facto, a good thing.  He seems oblivious to the fact that civilization is everywhere based upon a very fragile system of law and custom and the social controls they provide.  <br />Zinn is so intent upon proving the evil intentions of government that progressive legislation is viewed as merely an attempt to coopt a portion of a particular group of victims, or their leaders, so the exploitation of the majority of these people can continue unabated.  The growing black middle class is hardly acknowledged, and when it is, it is to point to its existence as simply the result of the attempt by the wealthy power brokers to maintain their dominance over a rebellious black population.  Never is there a hint that there might be a problem within the black culture itself.  Never is the government given credit for trying to assist or level the playing field for those who desire self-improvement.  You would think a history of society's victims might, at a minimum, include a discussion of the role affirmative action has played in our lives in recent years, but nowhere does Zinn even mention this!  This is clearly not honest.<br />Zinn's mission is to tell the story of the oppressed classes in America and, at the same time, expose how the rich, looking after their own self-interest, manipulate and exploit the &quot;people.&quot;  In this mission he is not genuinely radical, nor is he balanced or honest.  All government is not, all the time, a conspiracy against the masses, and the liberty and economic well-being most of us enjoy is something quite remarkable in history.  Zinn's book is definately worth reading, but one should realize going into it, that the author is one of those on the Left who does not have the capacity to be honest regarding the legacy of Western civilization.  By page 600 or so one gets a little tired of reading his litany of victims with no accompanying interpretation to give the work meaning.  The book, in the end, does little more than serve the politics of victimization so popular in many circles these days.	2001-01-25
US	50906518	RHLQ70DD2T0XN	0805056696	71060500	Wild Minds: What Animals Really Think	Books	3	25	26	N	N	An Interesting Book That Doesn't Answer the Question	As an earlier reviewer stated, the book &quot;Wild Minds&quot; is uninspired.  But, it is interesting and well worth reading.  One essentially learns how the animal brain has evolved for survival in a species specific manner.  Because the animal must survive in a geometric world, the brain functions in accordance with this world; animals come into the world with a certain mental toolkit. This toolkit places certain limitations or restrictions on the specie's ability to adapt however. <br />One of the most interesting lessons of Hauser's writing is the result of recent research that shows how the brain learns on its own, so to speak, prior to and without consciousness.  Hauser's examples drawn from animal experiments are fascinating to contemplate, but he ultimately tells us that we can never really know what an animal thinks or feels.  He ends by presenting solid arguments for animals, despite the appearance of altruistic behavior, not having any kind of moral sense.  <br />In the end Hauser acknowledges that we can only seek to understand how an animal's mind functions as far as how it will behave.  We will never know how it thinks or feels!  Given this, we may wonder about the subtitle which seems to mislead in order to sell books. If you are interested in &quot;what animals really think,&quot; you will not find it here.  If you are interested in how animal brains function (including the human)in regard to their behavioral adaptations and limitations, as a result of their evolutionary heritage as geared to survival in their environment, you probably will find the book of some interest.	2001-01-06
US	50906518	RQIHFZIWQ8A77	038549792X	928933773	Rabbi Jesus: An Intimate Biography	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Minus the Miracles...A Very Plausible Jesus	Bruce Chilton's work, &quot;Rabbi Jesus&quot; reads like a novel as it takes Jesus from his childhood as a &quot;mamzer&quot; of questioned legitimacy to his death on the cross.  In the process Chilton develops a very human Jesus who was deeply a part of his Jewish and Galilean environment.  Using translations of Aramaic and Syriac texts, Chilton often puts a different twist on exactly what Jesus tried to accomplish and who he believed he was.  He shows that Jesus went through a steady development as to his purpose and goals.  <br />Chilton takes Jesus' very Jewish vision and relates it to the sacrifices at the Temple in Jerusalem.  It then becomes clear as to why Jesus raided the Temple and went to Jerusalem in the first place; his attempt to purify the Temple and impose a more Galilean form of sacrifice.  <br />The most fascinating parts of the book are the development and changes in Jesus' religious thinking, the relationship of this thought to his Jewish environment, the political interaction between Pontius Pilate, Caiaphas, and Herod Antipas that results in Jesus' capture and death, and Chilton's insightful interpretation into Jesus' meaning of his &quot;blood and flesh&quot; that became the basis of the Christian Eucharist.  <br />Like any Biblical scholar, Chilton picks and chooses which sources to believe are genuine and which are to be rejected.  It would seem at times he is too willing to accept the miracles of Jesus and his followers at face value.  Often this does not seem consistent with the more human picture he has drawn of Jesus.  However, this is a fascinating portrait of Jesus and one that seems very plausible (for the most part).  It gives us much to consider regarding this Galilean and what he tried to accomplish.  By placing Jesus within the context of his Galilean and Jewish heritage it seems far more real than most others.	2000-12-28
US	50906518	RHAG1AOD9LUJB	0813332265	298756170	Eros: The Myth Of Ancient Greek Sexuality	Books	5	98	109	N	N	A Sane and Much Needed Perspective	First of all, ignore the ridiculous Kirkus review of this book!  Bruce Thorton's &quot;Eros: The Myth of Ancient Greek Sexuality&quot; is a badly needed voice of sanity on this subject.  Indeed, as Thorton himself says, &quot;Most of the writing on ancient sexuality these days grinds the evidence in the mill of an 'advocacy agenda' supported by some fashionable theory that says more about the crisis of Western rationalism than it does about ancient Greece.&quot;  He could have been talking about the Kirkus review.  By thoroughly examining the ancient sources themselves, Thornton reveals what the Greeks actually thought and said about sexual relationships.<br />The Greeks understood, perhaps, something we moderns do not; the Greeks understood the &quot;inhuman chaos of nature&quot; and perceived human order as the triumph of the mind and culture over the brute forces of nature.  Eros, Thornton explains, is not &quot;love&quot; but &quot;sexual desire.&quot;  It is a representation of how sex attacks the mind and breaks man's will.  Eros is a &quot;disease of the soul.&quot;  Consequently, sexual attraction as madness is a theme that recurs throughout Greek literature.  The Greeks saw sex and violence as two sides of the same irrational coin.<br />To the Greek way of thinking, mind must control the irrational.  Subjection to passion and appetite is a form of slavery.  The Greeks understood that women possess &quot;a power that speaks to the irrational in men.&quot;  And ultimately, &quot;what disturbs men about women is what disturbs men about themselves....&quot;  Unlike those who would like to portray women as powerless victims of a male patriarchy, Thorton shows how and why the Greeks saw female erotic power as dangerous; it intensifies the chaotic passion of all humans.  Women in ancient Greece were not powerless; &quot;one does not fear what one perceives to be powerless.&quot;  As Thorton points out, &quot;The modern reductive view of Greek women as oppressed victim tells us very little about antiquity yet quite a lot about the late-twentieth-century politics of victimhood....&quot;<br />Thornton does discuss pederasty and the symposium in his book and places them in their proper context.  The habitually passive homosexual was considered unnatural and an aberation in the Greek world.  He goes on to explain why the family and the production of heirs and future citizens was so important; legitimacy was much more important for an ancient Greek than it is in our modern society.  He explains why the Greek wife, unlike her depiction in so many recent works, was so crucial to the smooth functioning of the society.  The quality most sought after in a wife was self-control as she was the person charged with the management of the household.  The Greek household was not a simple home as we moderns recognize it.  Household management was an important function that included the management of the slaves, raising the children, the spinning of wool, the weaving of cloth, and overseeing agriculture as well as a hundred other crucial tasks. Many Greek households were mini-factories or estates.  Greek men and women formed a joint enterprise.<br />This is a work of sanity that returns to what the Greeks themselves actually said about sexual relations.  It presents a more balanced picture of Greek sexuality than the many writings that depict the Greeks as some sort of aberrant culture in order to further a political agenda.  Sure they were different than we are, but human nature has pretty much remained constant over the last several thousand years.  Perhaps that is Thornton's greatest sin in the eyes of some; he dares to portray women in ancient Greece as not powerless victims, but partners in the joint management of Greek society. Read this book if you want a clearer picture of what the Greek world was all about.	2000-12-27
US	50906518	R2D2SNBJRPQDV4	0300063083	933763753	Blood Relations: Menstruation and the Origins of Culture	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Most Brilliant Anthropological Study Ever Written	The many words used to describe Chris Knight's &quot;Blood Relations&quot; include, monumental, encyclopedic, brilliant, original, ingenious, and a tour-de-force.  It is all of these and more!  This work is simply the most brilliant and imaginative book about human cultural development ever written.  Its range is astonishing.  Its arguments are cogently made with great detail.  Its synthesis of primatology, socio-biology, and anthroplogy are compelling.         Where others have depicted women as the victims of a dominant male hierarchy, Knight reveals how the sex roles and behavior of both men and women developed together in a dialectic relationship.  Where others have stressed the loss of oestrus and continuous sexual receptivity in the female, Knight spotlights menstruation and its associated marital and other cultural taboos.  Where others stress man the hunter and woman the gatherer, Knight envisions paleo-women as evolving an increasing solidarity to shape the structure of both hunting and gathering.  Women are not the passive creatures that are so often depicted by the radical feminists who have an interest in portraying women as the victims of dominant males.  Females have been active participants in shaping culture, behavior, and human destiny.  As Knight says, &quot;symbolic culture involves very widespread levels of synchronized co-operative action.&quot;  <br />     Somewhere between 40,000 and 100,000 years ago, Knight believes, a massive social, sexual, and cultural explosion occurred and he does an ingenious job of providing us with insight into how this may have happened.  A major change in reproductive strategy had to take place before males could take off as hunters and leave their women behind. Women synchronized their ovulatory cycles with one another; the concept of the &quot;sex-strike&quot; is the heart of the book.  Blood as a symbol of menstruation provides a key to much of human culture and Knight uses it to explain the inner logic of manyof mankind's myths and taboos.  Because the disruptive effects of sex can be enormous, these controls have played an important role in the development of human culture.  <br />     The riches of this deeply learned book cannot simply be conveyed in a brief review.  It is a work to be read over and over and contemplated. The many insights into human culture and the relationships among the sexes will surely provide any open minded person with a new perspective as to why we are the way we are.	2000-12-25
US	50906518	R1VW37YBPD8AXD	068486813X	602046440	The Breach : Inside the Impeachment and Trial of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Outstanding Journalism, But Lacking Analysis	Peter Baker's book, &quot;The Breach&quot; takes you inside the caucuses and meetings of the various parties involved in the impeachment process of President Clinton.  It provides tremendous detail through interviews with the major players; one even senses that the participants wanted to get their version of things on the record and were willing to talk with Baker to fix their place in history. The details of the various strategies and counter-strategies used by the two sides are fascinating.  The dilemma in which Trent Lott and Tom Daschle found themselves is particularly interesting and one can almost feel their sense of relief when the process finally ended. Baker has dug deeply to provide us with this information and he is to be congratulated for his attempt to be neutral on so controversial a subject. The evenhandedness of his reporting is evident throughout the book. <br />There are weaknesses to the book, however, and these begin with no first-hand accounts from Bill and Hillary Clinton.  Secondly, Baker relies exclusively on first-hand accounts which, in effect, means taking politicians at their word.  The work is, thus, skewed toward depicting the House members as totally moral, and conscientious individuals doing their best for their country with no partisan motives. Much of the bitterness and pure partisanship of the times is absent.  Because Baker simply reports these conversations, with little or no analysis as to the motives of the players or interpretation of the events, he lets these politicians stake out the moral high ground and the political dynamics of the process are completely lost. Because of this, one comes away not understanding why Bill Clinton remained a very popular president throughout the event. <br />In sum, this is a book that should be read and there is much to be learned here about this sorry episode, but a complete evaluation of the process and the political dynamics will obviously wait til later.	2000-12-17
US	50906518	R3HVH9Q5NM6QWD	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	15	18	N	N	The Best History Written on the Pre-Revolutionary Period	Fred Anderson's book, &quot;Crucible of War&quot; is a wonderfully written and comprehensive work about pre-revolutionary America.  In its great depth and majestic sweep it ties together the politics within Britain, the warfare on the Continent, the struggle with the French in North American, the problems the American colonists had vis-a-vis the British, and the importance of the Ohio Country and the Indians livng there.  Anderson is deeply learned, writes with great detail and balance, and with a clarity of vision.  He provides us with deep insight into the social, political, and cultural confrontations, not only between these groups, but among themselves. He also gives us an understanding of the geographic dimensions of the struggle and how these affected the outcome.  All in all, this is a grand synthesis in the classic tradition.<br />Anderson's thesis is that the war's progression &quot;set in motion the forces that created a hollow British empire&quot; with problems that could not be solved by decisions made in London.  Understanding this makes our understanding of the origins of the American Revolution more complete.  This book is a must read for anyone seriously interested in pre-revolutionary America.	2000-12-17
US	50906518	R2GHJIHSKVW4B5	0671456547	680068737	Truman	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A  Book That Will Forever Change Your Opinion of Truman	Do you have an image of Harry Truman as an ordinary man, a common man who became the accidental president, as a man overwhelmed by the crises of the twentieth century?  Do you have the impression that Harry Truman was a dull man and that his life would be too boring to read about?  If so, how wrong you would be.       David McCullough's biography &quot;Truman&quot; is as detailed and beautifully written a biography as you will find.  Here Truman comes alive and steps out of history to reveal the admirably decent, hugely courageous, and impressively competent man that he was.  While his early years are interesting, particularly his role in WW I, and while his formative years in politics as part of the Pendergast machine are enlightening in their revelation of how politics in America work, it is in the long discourse on the presidential years that the book becomes totally spell-binding. <br />The Truman presidency took place at a time in history when the world as we know it, the world of the Cold War and the age of possible nuclear holocaust, was becoming a reality.  It is utterly fascinating to witness Truman and the men around him struggle with the issues that arose for those who were &quot;present at the creation.&quot;  Here is the story of an America intent on bringing home its sons after victory in WW II, only to find itself forced to deal with the birth pangs of a new age and new conflicts.  The country that Truman now led was suddenly made aware of its responsibility for the survival of democratic freedom in the world.  Faced with this enormous responsibility, Harry Truman stood tall and made the right decisions.  As Winston Churchill made clear to President Truman, &quot;you more than any other man have saved Western civilization.&quot;  <br />Herein, read about the decision to drop the atomic bomb as well as Truman's determination that it should never be used again.  Herein, read about the American concern over the growing domination of eastern Europe by theSoviet Union, the founding of the United Nations, Truman's aid to Greece and Turkey, the creation of the C.I.A, Truman's insistence on civilian control of nuclear weapons, the Marshall plan, the Berlin Airlift, the creation of NATO, the founding of the state of Israel, the creation of the People's Republic of China, the Korean War and the sacking of MacArthur.  Read about Truman taking the head of the United Mine Workers Union to court, seizing the steel mills, and the staunch defense of his associates from the attacks of McCarthy. Read about his amazing whistlestop campaign and thrilling victory in the 1948 campaign.  And don't forget the almost total rebuilding of the White House that so few people are aware of.  It is all here.  Never in the twentieth century did a president have to wrestle with so many critical issues, and never did a president serve humanity so wisely.<br />Along with this study of Truman the president we find emerging a vivid portrait of Truman the man.  His personal qualities and his role as husband, father, and friend reveal him as a loving, kind, caring, and honest man who valued loyalty and decency.  While under attack and low in the opinion polls when he left office, we can only stand amazed at the extent to which his critics and the political right would go for their own partisan purposes.  Fortunately, with time, history has a way of correcting the picture of men who are often vilified in their own time by partisan politics.  This has certainly been the case with Harry Truman who must be rated near the top, if not at the very top, of a list of the most outstanding presidents of the twentieth century.  We speak of Roosevelt, Stalin, Churchill, and Mao as among the giants of the century, but certainly Harry Truman belongs with them. McCullough's book will explain why. <br />In sum, McCullough's book is a must for anyone interested in American history and politics in the twentieth century.  It is also rewarding as a study of how a humaneand decent man can enter the rough and tumble world of politics and retain his integrity, sense of humor, and honesty.  Read it, enjoy it, and contemplate it.	2000-11-06
US	50906518	RFL7I1CE0HWYP	0253332109	595971554	The Ohio Frontier: Crucible of the Old Northwest, 1720-1830 (History of the Trans-Appalachian Frontier)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A solid survey of the frontier period in Ohio's history	R Douglas Hurt has provided us with a solid survey of Ohio's history from  its first settlement to the end of the frontier period.  He manages to  cover the various Indian tribes and their unique problems in dealing with  the white man.  He covers the economic developments, the process of  urbanization, the religious differences, the cultural differences of the  early settlers as well as the conflicts between Britain and the United  States and how they affected the people (including the Indians)of the Ohio  country.  In later years Hurt discusses the political struggles between the  Federalists and Republicans which ultimately led to statehood during the  Jefferson administration.  He ends by detailing the conflicts between the  Republicans and the Jacksonian democrats and what the conflicts meant to  the people of the Ohio frontier.  His discussion of canal building is also  informative.<br />One can find a wealth of detail here about particular  regions and towns and how they grew and developed.  The book, however,  cannot be awarded five stars as Hurt's writing style is very matter-of-fact  and (although he points out that the Western Reserve was slow to develop)  the northeastern section of the state is given little attention.  All in  all, however, a book well worth reading for anyone interested in Ohio  history or the development of the Northwest Territory.	2000-09-06
US	50906518	R1PZA6520B24J	0393317609	672932782	Paul: The Mind of the Apostle	Books	4	47	54	N	N	A Fascinating Study of the Early Christian World	This is a fascinating study of the early Christian world, a period of time in which &quot;Christianity&quot; emerged from the struggles within the early Jewish Jesus-movement.  Wilson's writing is effortless and his  depiction of Roman and Jewish culture is insightful.  Those who believe  that Christianity is the religion Jesus founded will not agree with much of  what Wilson has to say (or modern scholarship for that matter!), but for  those seeking an understanding of how various strands of religious thinking  took form following the death of Jesus, this is a book well worth reading.   <br />I would say that the subtitle is a little out of place because the book  is not really about &quot;the mind of the apostle.&quot;  This is something  that we can never hope to grasp, and Wilson acknowledges as much in his  book.  But a coherent picture of who Paul was and what he was all about  does emerge from its pages.  The book clearly sets him in opposition to  James and Peter and the Jerusalem Jesus-movement and clearly details Paul's  unique (although unintended) contribution to the birth of Christianity. It  is hard to put the book down.	2000-07-29
US	50906518	R3IL0WL1ZE5VSP	0029137519	96377791	Other Greeks: The Family Farm and the Agrarian Roots of Western Civilization	Books	5	84	86	N	N	The Real Foundation of Ancient Greek Culture	Over the years I have read many books on the ancient world, but always came away dissatisfied, feeling as if I could not quite grasp what these ancient Greeks were all about.  Sure, these books all covered the various  battles and the struggle with Persia.  They all dealt with Athenian  democracy, Spartan militarism, and the various philosophical schools.  We  all know how the Macedonians eventually put an end to &quot;Greek  freedom.&quot;  But just what was it that made these Greeks so different?   How and why did they emerge with a polis culture that gave us so much of  our Western heritage?  Why were these Greeks so different than the  orientals and the Romans?  Finally, we have a book that goes a long way in  explaining what it was that made the ancient Greeks so unique.  At last we  have a work that provides some answers as to &quot;what these Greeks were  all about.&quot; <br />I would agree with Donald Kagan who wrote, &quot;The  Other Greeks, is the most original and important contribution to an  understanding of the ancient Greeks I have ever read.&quot;  Here Victor  Hanson explains how the rise of intensive agriculture and the independent  farmer put an end to the Greek Dark Ages and he explains why this was an  entirely new phenomenon in history.  The rise of the polis, this  egalitarian community of farmers now producing its own food, fighting its  own wars, and making its own laws was something entirely novel in history.   This Greek agrarianism became an ideology that infused Greek life with new  energy and creativity.<br />Hanson details how the shift to private ownership  and intensive cultivation by individual farmers gave birth to Western  values and created the hoplite army.  Relying heavily on ancient sources,  as well as his personal knowledge of agriculture, he explains how and why  the Greek yeoman created the hoplite army and how it functioned. During the  polis period there was almost no miltary parasitism in most Greek  city-states.  <br/>But Hanson does not view the polis through rose- colored  lenses.  He understands that the polis developed during a period when  Greece was left alone by other powers around the Mediterranean world.  He  is aware of its innate conservatism and the fact that it was not  &quot;truly&quot; democratic.  The rise of Greek agrarianism, after all,  did lead to an increase in slavery in the countryside.  And lastly, Hanson  deals with the decline of the polis in a world where the Greeks were forced  to more and more deal with an opened society and international involvement.   The Athenians made the most dramatic and remarkable attempt to adapt the  polis culture to the needs of the new age, but, ultimately, the agrarian  based polis culture was unfit to the requirements of the new world. The  problems of new and wider citizenship and international economics found the  polis system wanting.  The Hellenistic Age and the conquests of Rome were  based on the foundations of Greek culture, but in no way did they recreate  the city-state life of ancient Greece.  Power, wealth and excess were the  hallmarks of the succeeding ages.<br />If there is any criticism of the book,  and I almost hate to offer it considering the great achievement of Hanson,  it is that the writing is often repetitious.  The reader should be prepared  for this.  But, I cannot see how anyone can consider themselves well read  in the history and culture of ancient Greek without reading this book and  considering the points that Victor Hanson has made.  A proper understanding  of ancient Greece is impossible without a comprehension of what Hanson has  given us.  We all owe him much for these insights.  This book belongs on  the shelf of everyone with an interest in the ancient world and its  insights will give you a yardstick by which to evaluate other times and  cultures.  After all, how people make their living is critical to  understanding their time and culture.	2000-06-03
US	50906518	R3N18NSSM066YW	0805041389	627486957	Tecumseh: A Life	Books	5	23	27	N	N	A well balanced and thoroughly researched life and times	John Sugden's &quot;Tecumseh&quot; is more than a well researched biography of the great Indian chief; it is also a moving story of the clash of cultures in the Old Northwest in the late 18th and early 19th century.  At no time are the Indians portrayed as the &quot;gentle children of  nature&quot; oppressed by the wicked white man...a portrayal that has  become all too common in our era where history is too often written from  the viewpoint of the underclass.  Instead, the Indians are portrayed as  human beings ( at times noble and at times savage ) struggling to survive  the whirlwind of the white world that was destroying their way of life.<br />Tecumseh's life and character are well documented and his dream of an  Indian confederacy, united to resist the American seizure of Indian land,  is the centerpiece of the book.  Other Indian leaders, as well as  Tecumseh's brother The Prophet, figure in the narative, as do the different  approaches the various tribes took in dealing with the Big Knives.  An  understanding of Tecumseh's life is not the only reward derived from a  reading of this book.  One also comes away with a much deeper understanding  of the divisions within the Indian world and the various problems they  faced within a way of life on the road to extinction.  At the end, one  senses the true depth of the tragedy, and gains an admiration for a man of  great character and nobility, who gave of all his energy, in an attempt to  save his people and their way of life.	2000-01-30
US	50906518	R2NS5XRZNG1M16	0375401199	102647171	Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fascinating Journey  into the Earth's Past	No, this is not a heavy duty textbook and no it is not &quot;all inclusive.&quot;  It is not written for the expert in biology or evolutionary science.  It is, however, a wonderfully facinating book for  those interested in the development of life on this planet.  At times, it  seems, there is a bit too much of the personal within its pages, and this  prevents it from being a five star book, but it nevertheless is well worth  reading.  One will come away from it with a much greater appreciation of  life on earth and our place in the scheme of things.  The author does a  wonderful job in presenting the &quot;story of life&quot; in one short  volume.	2000-01-08
US	50906518	RN0H4CLQ2QWPW	0195089200	996958582	The Market Revolution: Jacksonian America, 1815-1846	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Great Guide to the Forces Changing Early 19th c America	Solid all-around work on the social and economic forces that changed the United States from an Old World society, where privilege and rank were foremost, to a budding modern commercial civilization where individualism  is prized and pluralistic republican principles predominate.  A good read  for anyone interested in the first half of the 19th century.	2000-01-08
US	50906518	R1AN9Z4K42NMU9	0521474876	766141401	Slavery, Capitalism, and Politics in the Antebellum Republic: Volume 1, Commerce and Compromise, 1820-1850	Books	4	20	21	N	N	balanced study of the conflicts within the slave South	The emphasis here is upon the &quot;class&quot; tensions within the slave South and between the North with its &quot;wage labor&quot; and the South with its slave labor.  Far too many historians in recent years have been  afraid to use the concepts of &quot;class&quot; and &quot;capitalism&quot;  for fear of being tainted with the brush of Marxism.  But these are clearly  terms and concepts the abolitionists and the pro-slavery thinkers  themselves used in their attempts to make sense of their world. Ashworth  does an admirable job of employing these concepts while avoiding the  pitfalls of dogmatism and economic reductionism.  He draws inspiration from  Antonio Gramsci's concept of &quot;hegemony&quot; to provide his class and  material analysis with a balance that emphasizes the complexities of human  motivation.<br />     The author clearly reveals the points at which the slave  system was in inner conflict and shows how the southern attempts to provide  an intellectual defense of slavery were doomed to fail because of the  conflicts and tensions within the southern class system.  He goes on to  detail the ideology and the foundations of the Jacksonian Democrats, the  Whig Party, and the Republican Party and in the process gives the reader a  balanced perspective on the forces that led to the Civil War.  This is a  book that should be read by anyone interested in why the two sections of  the country were so different and came to think of themselves as different  peoples.	2000-01-08
US	50906518	R2X33QV6AV63R9	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Pathetic as History....Poor as Biography!	Morris' literary technique is particularly maddening in the first half of the book (the years when Morris wasn't around and pretends he and other fictional characters were). Much of the information and characterization he intends to convey through this literary device could have been conveyed through the more traditional biographical narrative. In other areas his style is choppy and many ideas are left undeveloped. Events are often left hanging with no conclusion or evaluation. One would expect much better from a historian....Morris is really a disappointment.  There is virtually no mention of Reagan's time as governor in California or his network of friends in high places from his California past.  The coverage of Reagan's management (or lack of) and infighting within his presidential administration is almost non-existent.  There are plenty of memoirs out there from people who worked with Reagan in Washington and Morris has no excuse for this lack of detail.  For much keener insights, one should go to works by George Shultz or Frances Fitgerald's &quot;Way Out There in the Blue.&quot;<br />The strength of the book is the portrayal of some of Reagan's personality quirks during the presidential years, the period when Morris was present to witness many of the president's actions and his interactions with those around him. A great deal of first hand information is presented that presents a rather frightening picture at times. Mr. Morris portrays Ronald Reagan with serious flaws, but in the end, admires him...although he has trouble convincing the reader exactly why.<br />I cannot, in all honesty, say that this book is not worth a try, but it is a big disappointment and clearly much better biographies will be forthcoming.	2000-01-01
