US	50909784	R14JXBKH2L8T7H	0441013236	475604999	A Song in the Dark (Vampire Files, No. 11)	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Solid Addition to the Vampire Files	**Spoiler Alert for Cold Streets**    A Song in the Dark is the 11th installment from P.N. Elrod in the Vampire Files.  This novel picks up right where the last novel, Cold Streets, ends.  Jack Fleming, our hero vampire, is trying to overcome the physical and psychological damage he endured after being skinned alive (or skinned dead in Jack's case) by a sadistic, diabolical mobster from New York.  At the same time he's trying to fill in as mob boss for his pal Gordy, who is recovering from gunshot wounds incurred in the previous episode.  At the same time, there's an internal mob conspiracy to unseat Gordy and the target at the moment is Jack.  And he's not quite sure what to make of the New York mob boss, Whitey Kroun, who is trying to figure out what to do about Jack's killing of Hog Bristow - the nasty piece of work that did a little knife work on Jack.  All this swirls around a murder mystery tied into all these subplots.      While A Song in the Dark is a solid addition to the Vampire Files, it is a bit of let down.  While it ties up part of the loose ends from Cold Streets, it does little to advance the story of Jack Fleming, Charles Escott, and Bobbi Smythe.  Instead of moving the characters forward they are stuck in a rut.  We've seen Jack before grapple with his vampirism and frankly it is getting a little old.  And Escott and Bobbi, except for a few interludes of drama, are basically role players here.  This particular installment, for the most part, comes across as being a bit formulaic and drags out a little slowly.     There are some upsides to this novel though.  There is some great foreshadowing and surprises along the way that are deftly handled.  And the one character who does progress in the novel, in subtle ways, is Myrna, the resident ghost of Jack's nightclub, Lady Crymsyn.  There are also enough surprises along the way to jolt the reader back into the story just as the action is lagging.    For fans of this series, this will be an enjoyable read, but probably a bit of let down from Cold Streets.  And it is highly advisable to read Cold Streets prior to this novel, as a lot of what takes place is explained in the previous novel.    Finally, there is one big gaping hole left unfilled from Cold Streets.  Where is Gilbert Dugan?  In Cold Streets, Jack and Escott thwart another sadistic character who kidnapped a mentally disabled child.  He subsequently finds out Jack is a vampire and blackmails him.  After a confrontation with Jack he disappears.  Jack currently has Gordy's gang looking for him.  He is mentioned briefly early in A Song in the Dark - that he has not been found but that Jack has other things to worry about at the moment.  No doubt, the resolution of this dilemma sets up another installment of The Vampire Files.  Despite some of the drawbacks to A Song in the Dark, this reader looks forward to it.	2005-10-11
US	50909784	R2JZEWNDNI7FBJ	0399153233	185341384	School Days (Spenser Mystery)	Books	4	34	40	N	Y	Review of School Days by Robert B. Parker (Spenser Novel)	Parker has churned out another fine effort in this latest Spenser novel.  Here our intrepid private investigator is kicking back in his office when in pops a rich grandmother whose grandson was involved in a school shooting in a ritzy white suburb of Boston.  She refuses to believe he's guilty and engages Spenser's services to prove his innocence.  The untangling of this mess unravels other sordid goings on in the area.  Spenser finds himself in some grey moral areas as he tries to uncover the truth.    This is a solid effort by Parker and one of the more interesting and well laid out offerings in the series.  It is in most ways typical of Spenser novels, with the sparse prose and fast moving plot, that fans of Parker have come to expect.  Unlike most Spenser novels there's no Hawk and Susan only makes a cameo appearance at the end, as she was out of town while this case went on.    Overall, this is a fine addition to the series. And a note of interest, Spenser is clearly doing every well financially as he can afford to drink Johnny Walker Blue, a very expensive scotch, like it's water.	2005-10-07
US	50909784	R2OP47LLN8R3T5	1582617589	119842663	Tales from the New York Giants Sideline	Books	1	10	13	N	Y	Review of Tales from the New York Giants Sideline	Tales from the New York Giants Sideline provides the professional football and Giants fan very little.  It is poorly organized, provides absolutely no insight into the team, its history, and its championship seasons.  Even more disappointing, given that the book is based on interviews with many past and present players and coaches, it gives little insight into the personalities that have given this franchise a unique and deep history.  In short, it is a total failure. <br /> <br />The book is divided into six chapters: Training Camp, The Season, The Founder, The Coaches, The Teammates, and The Championships.  None of the chapters provide great insight on the given topic.  Further, the organization of the book provides no chronological continuity as it jumps all over the place in time and era.  Essentially what this book consists of are very short vignettes, in fact vignettes isn't even the right word, short snippets, that give a little nugget of information about the team and players.  It's basically a little collection of quotes and comments about the chapter topics. <br /> <br />The players, coaches, and owners that get the most air time, so to speak, are Wellington Mara, Sam Huff, Y.A. Tittle, Frank Gifford, Phil Simms, and Bill Parcels.  Of course other players and events are touched upon, but not in any meaningful way.  Yes, Lawrence Taylor is in here, but mostly only in embarrassing situations. <br /> <br />Very unfortunately is that there is a little bit, but not nearly enough, about some of the most important events in Giants history.  Want to know a little bit about one of the seminal games in NFL History, the 1958 NFL Championship between the Giants and Baltimore Colts (the first overtime game in NFL history)?  You won't get much here.  Want to know about the Giants' Super Bowl years?  You won't get a lot here except a few quotes and comments.  In short, you don't get much at all with this book. <br /> <br />Thus, I would not recommend this book to a football fan or Giants fan.  There is just not enough information or good storytelling here to make this book worthwhile.  It is a quick and easy read, but even casual Giants' fans are not likely to learn anything particularly new or worthwhile. <br /> <br />The author of this book has covered the New York Giants for the New York Post since 1994.  The Giants have had mostly mediocre results during this time frame, this book is less than mediocre.	2005-10-05
US	50909784	R796TR1N6ZJX9	0670031445	336077606	The Interruption of Everything	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Review of The Interruption of Everything by Terry McMillan	It has been a few years since Terry McMillan came out with a new novel and it was well worth the wait.  Frankly, I thought she was getting a little stale after her last novel - A Day Late and a Dollar Short.  She proves with The Interruption of Everything that she is far from stale. <br /> <br />Marilyn Grimes is the apotheosis of the middle-aged empty nester having a midlife crisis.  She has set aside her own educational and career aspirations to be a wife and mother to three children.  Thus her time was spent as a caretaker for others and she spent little time for herself.  Once the kids are gone she realizes that her husband is never home and gives her little attention - something that was generally always the case but now it's noticeable and she's at loose ends.  She fills the void with a part-time job at a craft store, being an unwilling cook, chauffeur and caretaker for her aging mother-in-law and dog, and worrying about her daughter's and sons' lives from arms length.  But Marilyn is not happy.  She realizes she has put off fulfilling her own wants and desires for others - and isn't quite sure how to start paying attention to herself. <br /> <br />Then her world starts getting shaken.  Her husband seems to be going through a midlife crisis of his own - going from a boring, typical, well-off suburban dad to buying a motorcycle, new spiffy clothes, and saying he's quitting his job.  Her step-sister is a drug addict trying to take care of their mother and two kids.  Her mother is becoming forgetful - so much so that clearly something is wrong.  Her daughter is pregnant by the man she's living with.  And Marilyn gets a few other, not so little, surprises along the way. <br /> <br />This novel is about Marilyn trying to regain her life.  She's unhappy and bored and realizes she needs to do things to please and take care of herself for once in her life - but at the same time not abandon the problems life has unfairly laid in her lap.  <br /> <br />McMillan does a brilliant job making this novel funny, sad, poignant, surprising, and compassionate all at the same time.  The prose at times is laugh out loud funny and just wonderfully and entertainingly written.  In fact, this should be a candidate for a Pulitzer Prize for its perceptive, recognizable, but also unique depiction of a part of life.  The prose may be a bit too accessible to catch the eyes of critics, but in my view it's brilliantly written. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this wonderful novel. <br /> <br />Review by C. Douglas Baker	2005-09-21
US	50909784	R295U9CD0TH8LD	0195669819	708610144	Durable Disorder: Understanding the Politics of Northeast India	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Review of Durable Disorder: Understanding the Politics of Northeast India	Durable Disorder is an outstanding collection of essays on the politics of Northeast India.  Much like Baruah's monograph on the political troubles in Assam, this work discusses the origins of ethnic conflicts in Northeast India and how these conflicts have perpetuated themselves through both internal jockeying for resources and recognition among ethnic or cultural groups and the unintended consequences of state policies that foster instead of discourage these movements.  Importantly, Baruah details the erosion of true democracy and respect for human rights that both the state and these ethnic movements have precipitated.   <br /> <br />Baruah's conclusion discussing the potential of economic development and a bold \\"Look East Policy\\" fostering economic trade and cooperation between Northeast India, Burma, China, Nepal, Bhutan, and other Asian countries contiguous with present day Northeast India is insightful and forward thinking, although given the political barriers may be somewhat idealistic in the short term. <br /> <br />Overall, this is an excellent work and one policymakers in India should take seriously if they hope to resolve the problems of this troubled region.	2005-09-15
US	50909784	R3A2BPZ5J9TR3X	1851682376	474803085	India and South Asia: A Short History	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Good Cultural History of South Asia	This history of South Asia and India very heavily relies on the politics of cultural identity to explore the political and socio-economic changes that have shaped this part of the world.  It is a very challenging subject matter for a person not very familiar with Indian history.  The first several chapters detail the truly amazing array of small kingdoms and cultural subgroups through ancient and modern South Asia, along with shifts in political and economic \\"boundaries.\\" The history becomes almost overwhelming and it is at times difficult to keep track of the main points of the book.  <br /> <br />Nevertheless, the prose is readable and the diligent reader will learn a lot about the culture and politics of South Asia and why it has developed (or not developed) as it has.  It exposes the roots of modern day difficulties between competing religious and ethnic cultures that makes nationality and nation building a difficult prospect - be it Indian, Pakistani, or Sri Lankan.  It also helps the reader to understand how long traditions of differing economic interchange and development have caused clashes among competing subgroups and how this has shaped the politics of the regionally and culturally diverse South Asia, especially India.  Finally, the book offers insight into the seemingly ever present violence in parts of South Asia such Kashmir, Northeast India, South India, and Sri Lanka rooted in subnationalism and cultural identities. <br /> <br />This book is somewhat weaker on modern day politics and the difficulties surrounding the 1947 partition and the relationships between India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. <br /> <br />Despite the drawbacks, this work does provide the reader with a piece of the puzzle that is the history of South Asia.	2005-09-14
US	50909784	R36PVQ12OX4J6Y	193299436X	680910896	2005 NFL Record & Fact Book (Official NFL Record & Fact Book)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Source of NFL Information	The 2005 NFL Record and Fact book is resource for statistics, facts, and history of professional football that no avid professional football fan should be without.    For me the highlight of the book is compendium of every NFL record you could care to imagine.  And, it has details of each and every Super Bowl, including every Super Bowl record you can conceive of.  It also has playoff records too.     It also has a complete breakdown of EVERY game from the previous year.     Another excellent piece is a complete mini-history of every NFL team plus, most interesting and nostalgic, the career, single season, and single game records in many categories fans will be interested in (rushing, passing, receiving, and a few others.     There is additional information such as scheduling formulas, a break down of the rules, an explanation of the passer rating system, and this year's schedule.     There's more too.... like the entire roster of the Pro Football Hall of Fame inductees.    This Record and Fact book is well organized and it is easy to find what you need. You want to resolve a dispute with some friend about some NFL historical fact or record? It'll be easy with this volume.     As usual when I buy the most updated edition of this book, I spent some enjoyable hours with it.	2005-08-28
US	50909784	R12MZICJKV1JK4	081296618X	166313123	Islam: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	3	12	17	N	Y	Good Short History of Islam	Karen Armstrong's A Short History of Islam is indeed short but it covers all the key events in Islamic history and is a good primer for someone wanting the general background on the religion.<br /><br />Armstrong's main theme appears to be that the basic tenets of Islam have been twisted by later day messianic terrorists and \\"orthodox\\" Muslims.  One of the original tenets of Islam was egalitarianism, which explains why capitalism, which relies on the accumulation of wealth, is a difficult fit with the religion as an economic system.  But it does not explain - as here Armstrong correctly points out - why women are subjects and not equals to men in most modern Islamic thinking.<br /><br />A second is theme is peace.  Overall Armstrong's statement that Islam and the Prophet Mohammed wanted peace above all things belies the fact Muslims have been warring against each other from the religion's inception.  Further, the book at times seems like an apologia for the atrocities committed by Muslims against Muslims in the wars centering around Mecca and Medina.  While it is true that this violence was typical of the times and that Christians and other faiths have equally bloody histories, it's also true that it was not an auspicious start for a religion whose ultimate normative aim was peace.  And it seems peace has been impossible to come by since.<br /><br />A third theme is how Islam has been closely tied to the state since its inception and religious control of government has typically been the norm throughout its history.  This helps explain why a western style democracy is not a good fit for Islam, as Islamic countries traditionally have codified religious behaviors.<br /><br />What is lacking from Armstrong's work is some proscriptive examples of how Islamic countries can overcome the vicious cycle of history and truly strive for the egalitarian and peaceful ideals that are laid out in the Koran.<br /><br />Despite these drawbacks it is a good, quick primer on Islamic history.	2005-08-25
US	50909784	R2AQEIJIFG0AWK	0812532384	958552912	Orbital Resonance (Meme Wars)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Review of Orbital Resonance by John Barnes	Life aboard a space station is explored in many modern works of science fiction and most of them have two elements in common.  First, there is little or no privacy.  Living in close quarters with one's family and colleagues makes for a public life.  Secondly, life in such closed environments leads to rigid social organization and extreme pressure toward conformity.  With the technology available under these conditions someone will inevitably monitor the actions of others.  Especially in space stations meant for long-term or life long inhabitation, leaders act as \\"Big Brother\\", able to see and monitor every move of the inhabitants.<br /><br />Orbital Resonance by John Barnes includes all these elements but in a deceivingly benign manner.  A group of humans have been selected to begin a new life in a space station away from a dying Earth.  The initial colonizers, realizing the children are their hope for survival, use genetic engineering, electronic monitoring, and psychological manipulation to socialize and control the actions of their children.  Life on the \\"Flying Dutchmen\\" requires conformity.  This conformity is enforced via socialization of the young such that conformity is second nature; genetic tinkering is used to ensure that this socialization works.  The children growing up on the \\"Flying Dutchman\\" are truly denizens of space, seeing Earth as a distant, foreign environment.  They are completely different and alienated from their parents.<br /><br />Finding out her life has been closely scripted whereby seemingly free choices were really genetically and psychologically predetermined does little to deter the teenage protagonist, Melpomene.  Unfortunately Barnes does not use this strong character to question the cleverly inconspicuous totalitarian nature of the society he creates.  Instead, Melpomene goes about her daily routines and the eventual climax has more to do with the unbreechable generation gap than it does with the social control exercised by her parent's generation. The story itself is rather bland but is saved by the interesting characters Barnes develops.<br /><br />It is odd the lack of attention Barnes devotes toward the worst invasions of human dignity perpetrated by his characters. The children are genetically engineered with certain abilities and are psychologically manipulated to respond certain ways to stimuli.  Yet little discussion of the moral or social implications of genetic engineering ensues. Melpomene's father rationalizes the actions of his generation as being necessary for the survival of humans and the children of the \\"Flying Dutchmen\\", seeing himself as a benevolent guardian of their future.  The normative questions opened by this rationalization remain unexplored. This makes Orbital Resonance less satisfying.<br /><br />Book Review by C. Douglas Baker	2005-08-06
US	50909784	R361FGYNIUTO9V	0380978946	282659637	Olympos	Books	4	55	71	N	Y	Review of Olympos by Dan Simmons	Olympos by Dan Simmons is the sequel to Ilium.  It is a sprawling and adventurous science fiction novel set in the far future.  Olympos literally picks up right where Ilium left off.  I strongly advise readers interested in these two entertaining novels to read Ilium first before launching into Olympos.  Ilium sets up all the characters and the storyline. <br /> <br />Olympos has several plotlines going at once but like the previous novel they come together in the end.  As readers of Ilium will know, the novel is set in a future where \\"post-humans\\" have transformed themselves into the Greek gods and are playing out the Trojan war with a human population they seem to have created from remnant DNA in what turns out to be an alternate universe.  But in the previous novel the Trojan war suddenly no longer follows its due course as laid out in the Illiad because of the meddling of one, Thomas Hockenberry, a 20th century classics professor whose DNA has been recombined by the post-humans so he can follow the war and report on its progress to them.  As the novel progresses, the so called gods war among themselves and Hockenberry, already out of favor with them, is a free agent. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, back on our earth, the \\"old style\\" humans who have been genetically modified for longevity are fighting for their very existence as creatures from another universe are trying to wipe them out.  Much of the novel, in fact, focuses on Harman, one of the wiser and more learned humans, and his cadre of friends who are trying save themselves and the rest of the human population from obliteration. <br /> <br />And finally we have the moravecs from Jupiter who are basically cyborgs of various shapes and sizes.  Originally created by humans to mine resources from Jupiter and its moons, they have become self-aware and are on a mission to find out what is causing the quantum fluxes around Mars and stop it before it destroys the universe. <br /> <br />Olympos is well written and entertaining science fiction.  While there are a lot of different things going on in Olympos Simmons does a fabulous job of keeping the story moving at a brisk and exciting pace and he makes it easy for the reader to follow the big picture as the plotlines converge toward a conclusion.  Further, the main characters are very well drawn, including the two key moravecs who are the focal point of that plotline.  And despite the gruesome nature of what is going on through most of the novel, Simmons has a deft sense of humor that is peppered throughout the story.  Finally, the zipping around through quantum teleportation in Olympos seems more like a natural part of this story than it did in Ilium, where it appeared to be a lazy plot device simply to wrap up difficulties. <br /> <br />Olympos also answers most of the questions left hanging in Ilium and are better viewed as one long novel than separate works.  While I wouldn't place this in a pantheon of classic science fiction, its unique and clever story line and entertainment value should keep these books in print for a long, long time. <br /> <br />Review by C. Douglas Baker	2005-07-21
US	50909784	RZUROLA1BJIWE	0060006927	390499095	The Great Mortality : An Intimate History of the Black Death, the Most Devastating Plague of All Time	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Uneven But Educational	The Great Mortality is an uneven account of the Black Death that wiped out a quarter of the world's population in the 14th Century.  It is a fascinating period of time when one considers how different the world was then - the filth, the backward medical practices and thinking, people not bathing or changing clothes except once a year, and the superstitions.  And then along comes a pestilence that relentlessly killed off millions of people and wiped out half or more of the population in many cities - at a time when humans were less capable of dealing with such a pestilence.    There are several things to praise about Kelly's account of the Black Death - and others to lament.  But let's start with the praise.  First, he does an excellent job of using first hand accounts to paint a picture of society in the 14th Century, giving the reader a good sense of what life was like then.  Secondly, the accounts offer some vivid insights into what it must have been like to live through the Black Death with people dying all around you - and the great sorrow of entire families being wiped out by the plague.  Third, Kelly lays out current scientific theories on what caused and perpetuated this epidemic.    The biggest drawback is that the book is somewhat uneven and it doesn't flow very well.  While Kelly touches on the big picture and the impact of the Black Death on future generations, this is where the book is weakest.  Had Kelly written just one more chapter to tie everything together and really paint the big picture for the reader, the book would have been vastly improved.    Despite this drawback, overall the book was fascinating, and for me, educational.	2005-06-24
US	50909784	R2JFE4FW3LOJJ6	0399152776	340940705	Appaloosa	Books	4	62	67	N	N	Review of Appalosa by Robert B. Parker	Robert B. Parker has offered a western written in his usual fast paced, clipped writing style that is highly engaging and entertaining.  While not a literary masterpiece, Parker does an excellent job of creating unique fascinating characters, providing subtle insights into them, and posing ethical dilemmas that his characters work out using their own internal moral structure. <br /> <br />Appaloosa introduces us to two marauding law men - Virgil Cole and Everett Hitch.  The story is told in the first person from the point of view of Hitch, who plays second fiddle to Cole, a seasoned and dangerous gunman.  Cole and Hitch are hired by the aldermen of Appaloosa, a town that is being terrorized by a nefarious rancher named Randall Bragg.  Bragg and his men murder the previous Marshal and now take whatever they want from the town - be it whiskey, food, or women.  Cole and Hitch are hired to put an end to town's suffering.  They eventually arrest Bragg for the murder and once convicted help transport him to be hung.  Not surprisingly, Bragg escapes with the help of some hired gunmen, two brothers who even Cole is apprehensive of.  This leads to, of course, a gun fight between the two sides.  Through all this, Cole has fallen for a deeply flawed and dangerous woman, Ms. French, who he refuses to leave despite her treacherous ways.  This sets up more drama at the novel's conclusion. <br /> <br />While this western follows a similar plot line as many novels in its genre, and there is nothing really new or unique here, it does have some distinguishing characteristics. First, it's clear that Cole and Hitch walk a fine line between being law abiding citizens and simply assassins, and it's a line they may have crossed in the past, and seem to be in constant danger of crossing in the novel.  First and foremost they are hired guns with the cloak of legality and they set their ethical parameters to meet whatever moral code they have constructed for themselves.  Secondly, the character of Ms. French introduces a great dilemma in the novel for Cole - and for Hitch - which is very cleverly wrapped up in the novel's conclusion. <br /> <br />This was very entertaining and fast paced novel for a lazy afternoon of reading. <br />	2005-06-22
US	50909784	RYY0TW1W0Y2S6	0765311070	910315165	Mindscan	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting Exploration of Consciousness	Mindscan by Robert Sawyer is an exploration of consciousness, self-awareness, and raises the question of where, exactly, does an individual's core essence that makes her or him a unique individual lie?  He cleverly doesn't answer the question, but leaves much food for thought. <br /> <br />The set up for this exploration is the character, one Jake Sullivan, an independently wealthy heir of a Canadian brewing company.  Jake's father has become incapacitated from a rare disease that causes a mass brain hemorrhage and Jake discovers he too carries this rare disease that could leave him completely incapacitated or dead, unexpectedly, at any moment.  He carries this burden with him, fearing to become too close to people.  And while sociable, he has no real intimate friends, even the woman he's in love with. <br /> <br />But Jake finds hope in the form of a new technology.  A company has developed a technique where they can transfer an individual's consciousness into a life like mechanical body that offers the possibility of immortality because the body is almost indestructible and as advances are made in the technology, the consciousness can be moved to new and improved models.  So Jake takes the plunge and has his consciousness transferred.  But there's a catch - there are now two Jakes, one the mechanical body that contains Jake's consciousness, and the \\"original\\" or cleverly named \\"skin\\" as in shed skin.  The original Jake signs a contract that forces him to go to retirement community on the moon.  Being a young fellow, this becomes unsettling for the original Jake.   <br /> <br />Now enter a famous author, Karen Bessarian - an aging writer who also has her consciousness transferred and heads for the moon while her \\"other\\" consciousness continues on in a new body and goes on with life.  This sets up a situation where Karen's consciousness in her artificial body winds up in court to determine whether she, indeed, is Karen Bassarian.  Meanwhile, the original Jake broodson the moon, with explosive consequences as the story unfolds. <br /> <br />Sawyer does a commendable job of exploring what is consciousness and the novel has plenty of plot twists keeping the story moving at a rapid, entertaining pace.  It's an entertaining story to read.  There are a few drawbacks, however.  First, Sawyer uses a court case to raise questions about what constitutes consciousness and individuality.  The courtroom scenes are a little too obviously contrived for my tastes - although overall it is well done and somewhat seamless with the story.  Secondly, he uses some unfortunate near future predictions about American politics and future presidents that I found overwrought and a detraction from the story.  It was hard to suspend my disbelief when I found this near future America unlikely and it will certainly undermine the ability of the book to have much resonance ten or twenty years from now. <br /> <br />That said, overall I found the novel very worthwhile and interesting, as all of Sawyer's novels tend to be.	2005-06-14
US	50909784	R1VIESW0T3074K	0385336675	649745987	The Enemy (Jack Reacher, No. 8)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Fine Novel Featuring Jack Reacher	Lee Child has something pretty good going with his Jack Reacher novels.  Prior the The Enemy, we've known Reacher as the ex-military police officer and a drifter who has a penchant for finding trouble and for trouble finding him.  In this novel Reacher is still in the military and a very hot case falls into his lap. <br /> <br />The plot itself is fairly simple one.  While stationed at Fort Bird, North Carolina Reacher is on duty when a General is found dead in sleazy hotel room.  But, it's a little tricky.  First, he's found in a compromising position and he's supposed to be in route to a meeting in California.  And then another body drops in a rather gruesome manner on base.  Needless to say, all kinds of shenanigans are going on here and Reacher starts to unravel them slowly but surely.  And the fallout reaches the highest levels of the military bureaucracy. <br /> <br />The Enemy is a more straightforward mystery novel than some of the previous Reacher novels and for the most part it is very well done.  And while Reacher's character is pretty well developed in previous novels, we get a foreshadowing of why Reacher - as we know in the future - will no longer be in the military, which he intended to make a career.  The only drawback to Child's novels is that the plots stretch credibility and move into the unbelievable at times, as does this one.  Nevertheless, it was quite entertaining.	2005-05-20
US	50909784	R3UGWR5SA6RRIC	0877972508	83731537	The Able McLaughlins	Books	1	20	28	N	N	A Best Forgotten Pulitzer Winner	I read this novel because it won the Pulitzer Prize in 1924.  After reading it I've come to the conclusion 1923 must have been a pretty bad year for good novels or the Pulitzer Prize jury was out to lunch.  This is one of most over dramatic, over written, boring novels I've read in some time.  The prose is turgid, the characterization is poor, and the plot borders on the unbelievable.   <br /> <br />Wully McLaughlin comes home wounded from the Civil War and while there falls in love at first sight with Christie.  The last time Wully saw Christie she was a small girl but now she's an all grown up beauty.  Wully secures her promise to marry him after the war so he returns to his unit.  After the war is over Wully comes home to find Christie distant and cold - and soon finds out why.  She is pregnant with another man's child.  The rest of the novel is about how Wully and Christie deal with these scandalous events in this very rural, very close knit community. <br /> <br />This novel starts bad and gets worse.  First, the scenes where Wully falls for Christie are simply melodramatic flimflam and almost entirely unbelievable.  And the way the plot meanders along once Wully returns and the actions each take as they deal with their unfortunate circumstances are poorly thought out from a plotting standpoint. <br /> <br />This is definitely not a novel I'd recommend to anyone.  It's a waste of valuable reading time.	2005-05-17
US	50909784	R18KBIYKYBMJDA	0399152407	412179057	Cold Service (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid Spenser Novel	Spenser fans should enjoy this new installment by Robert B. Parker.  While some could rightfully argue that Spenser novels are becoming - or have been for some time - a bit formulaic, and this is no exception, we do get a new twist here.  The story begins with Hawk nearly dead in a hospital after being shot by some Ukrainian mobsters while acting as a bodyguard for a small time bookie.  Poor Ukrainian mobsters.  It turns out the Ukrainian mob has taken over a medium size city north of Boston.  Pop, pop, bang, bang, here comes Hawk and Spenser looking for revenge and evening the score.     This novel has the same sparse, fast paced prose of most Spenser novels.  This is the first time we really see a vulnerable side of Hawk and the novel strengthens our understanding of the unique relationship between Spenser and Hawk.  While I have some quibbles about how Spenser is presented with a moral dilemma in this novel - this part could have been better done and more consistent with earlier works, overall I quite enjoyed it.  This will be an entertaining treat for Spenser fans.	2005-05-03
US	50909784	R1W6IPSVBMY436	0060926945	339892186	Masters of Deception: The Gang That Ruled Cyberspace	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Review of Masters of Deception	Review by C. Douglas Baker <br /> <br />MASTERS OF DECEPTION: THE GANG THAT RULED CYBERSPACE <br />By Michelle Slatalla and Joshua Quittner <br />HarperCollins Publishers, Incorporated <br />New York, New York <br />Copyright 1995 <br />225 pages <br /> <br />\\"They believe in the hacker ethic: Thou shalt not destroy.\\" With this oft repeated refrain, Slatalla and Quittner unfold the exploits of a hacker gang, the self styled Masters of Deception (MOD).  Briefly, a group of intelligent kids in the early 1990's, with cheap computers and a lot of time on their hands break into sensitive computer systems all over the country.  While most people were asleep, these teens were accessing and learning how a variety of high tech computers controlling telecommunications operate.  MOD's most notable intrusions were the telephone company and TRW, the company that keeps data on everyone's credit.  Of course, they were not supposed to be there and were technically committing a crime. Their motive was primarily a desire to learn and the bragging rights associated with \\"hacking\\" some company's computer system, then sharing its secrets with friends.  They were only limited by their imaginations and their ability to find a receptive computer accessible via a modem.  The morals of \\"cyberspace\\" is: if a computer is vulnerable to penetration, then it is fair game for the hacker. The hacker is actually doing the victim a favor by exposing their weakness (assuming he victim even realizes they have been penetrated).  Once the phone company realized it was being \\"hacked\\" it did not take the intrusion lightly.  After a lengthy investigation that included the phone company, the Secret Service, and the New York City District Attorney's office, among others, the ring leaders were caught.  They eventually all pled guilty to their intrusions and even spent time in federal penitentiaries. <br /> <br />Slatalla and Quittner tell a good story, focusing on the lives, thoughts, and motives of the kids in MOD.  The authors frequently repeat the hacker ethic juxtaposed to some of MOD's deeds: a crashed computer system, phone and computer harassment of enemies, free long distance phone service, and finally a plan to sell confidential credit information gleaned illegally from TRW.  Unfortunately, the authors fail to examine the significance of these actions.  It is not the damage these kids did, which some have argued did not warrant the penalties they received, but the questions implicitly raised about the future of electronic crimes.  Where do we as a society draw the line between harmless pranks by overzealous teenagers fascinated by sophisticated computer systems and serious computer crimes that do real financial damage or seriously breech the privacy of citizens?  In an era where computer systems control more and more of our daily lives, this question becomes paramount.  It is naive, at best, to believe that all hackers are out only to learn and to play harmless games of one-upmanship with large companies and other hackers.  While the authors frequently allude to this important question they never even attempt to answer it.     <br />	2005-04-02
US	50909784	R1QDX1H5OIB4J3	0517006650	569031739	The Guardsman	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A Good Plot Idea Poorly Executed	What makes a good novel is the adage \\"a good story well told.\\"  In The Guardsman, we encounter a good story poorly told.  Here, the authors have taken a fantastic idea for a story and, through often juvenile writing and plotting, have made it into something more pedestrian. <br /> <br />This is a novel with lots of plots, intrigue, assassination attempts, and moves along a rather crisp pace.  An interstellar empire is ruled by a human emperor located in Osaka (I presume Japan but it's never made clear).  The empire is riddled with disaffected persons seeking to overthrow the emperor - and an underground rebellion is in full swing in the capital city.  The empire, and as result the emperor who embodies it, are protected by a race of warriors called the Lionmen (who resemble lions, of course).  They are the best soldiers in the galaxy and are led by the venerable Ki Lawwnum.  The Lionmen, through a treaty with the empire generations old, are honor bound to protect the empire.  Ki is the commander of the imperial guard, an uncanny, crafty solider who watches the corrupt Emperor Ozenscebo XVII sink into depravity.  Ki has also promised the empress Elena to watch over and protect her first born daughter Natanha - which as the story unfolds creates some rather complicated conflicts in duty for Ki. <br /> <br />Overall this would be a fantastic story and in many ways still is.  But there are many drawbacks.  First, much of the writing and actions of characters are written in a juvenile manner.  Adults themes are often written in a manner one would expect of an adolescent.  Secondly, the role of some of the key characters in the overall scheme of the empire is very unclear and they are not at all fully developed.  Some would also argue that the empire and plot is modeled after the Roman Empire, and the Lionmen are very much like Samurai warriors.  These plot devices are actually subtly acknowledged in the novel in various ways.  This is a bit of a detraction from the novelsimply because a fuller, more unique characterization of the Lionmen and their traditions, as well as a clearer explanation of how the empire developed, would have lent the novel a more well rounded setting.  The culmination of these failings make the novel average, at best. <br /> <br />One the plus side, the story is quite riveting in and of itself.  A few of the key characters are also well drawn, especially Ki, the empress Elena, and the princess Natanha - so much so that you find yourself really caring about them.  This salvages the novel and makes it an entertaining, worthwhile, but at the same time disappointing, experience. <br />	2005-04-01
US	50909784	R29PT9SUYLZEWE	0375415327	329305840	Unforgivable Blackness: The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson	In the introduction to his biography of Jack Johnson, Geoffrey C. Ward indicates that his primary source was newspaper articles.  And indeed, this biography reads much like a very long newspaper account of the life of Jack Johnson.  This isn't good or bad, but an apt description of what it is like reading this biography.  In fact, Ward has done a commendable job in weaving what he had to work with into a very readable, informative, and enjoyable work. <br /> <br />Jack Johnson was the boxing world heavyweight champion from 1908-1915.  And he was the first black heavyweight champion, which dominates the story of his life inside the ring and out.  Johnson became heavyweight champion at a time when boxing was just barely out of the bare knuckle era, and while more organized as a sport, was still a rough and tumble and often illegal activity.  Boxing, even as it is today, was often surround by unsavory characters.  During that era throwing fights for money or to set up matches wasn't uncommon.  Johnson learned his craft literally starting from the bottom up in local tough man or boxing contests and his skills eventually lead him to the top of his sport.    <br /> <br />What make Johnson's story so interesting are two things - race and his profligate lifestyle.  Race played a key role in his life even though he himself ignored race and didn't let it interfere with how he behaved or what he did.  He often sported white women on his arm and eventually married a white woman, and did not defer to anyone, black or white.  This made him an even more incendiary figure for the race conscious press and America at the time.  Many white heavyweights wouldn't fight Johnson - most notably Jim Jefferies who held the title at a time when Johnson was the obvious deserving opponent for a shot at the champion.  Eventually Jefferies retired and \\"conferred\\" his title on Tommy Burns, a bulked up white middleweight.  Johnson chased after Burns and through the pressure of the press he eventually landed his title shot and dominated his lesser opponent, winning the heavyweight championship of the world. <br /> <br />This eventually lead to one of the most pivotal heavyweight boxing matches in history - and certainly the most pivotal fight of Johnson's career - a match with former heavyweight champion Jim Jefferies.  Jefferies was obviously reluctant to come out of retirement to fight the new champion but pressure from friends and many in the press and boxing world, who didn't want to see a black man hold the championship, more or less forced his hand.  The fight eventually took place on July 4, 1910 in Reno, New Mexico.  Thousands were in attendance but millions throughout the country waited for the result.  Johnson dominated Jefferies through much of the fight, eventually knocking him out in the 15th round.  Johnson's win legitimized his title as heavyweight champion.  Unfortunately, it also touched off violence against blacks throughout the country.   <br /> <br />Jefferies utter defeat also lead to a search for a \\"great white hope\\" to defeat Johnson.  Eventually, Johnson was beaten by a huge but less skilled Jess Willard in Havana, Cuba on April 5, 1915.  Johnson probably lost as much because of age, he was around 37 at the time, and the rather unfortunate events in is life from the time of the Jefferies victory to his match against Willard in Cuba.  During that time he appears to have spent most of his money, married a white woman who eventually committed suicide, and married another white woman against the violent protests of her family.  This led, in a rather convoluted way, to his fleeing the country with his new wife in tow after being brought up on charges of violating the Mann Act.  During all this time, and the only reason to mention the ethnicity of his wives, was the vilification Johnson received in the press across America and the hatred he engendered among some, including those in law enforcement, who wanted to bring him down. Thus, Johnsonhad to go through convoluted negotiations and travel arrangements to even defend his title again Willard in Cuba.  Eventually, Johnson decided to come back to America but had to face a jail sentence, which he served.  After getting out of jail, broke because he spent most of his money, he mostly earned a living through boxing exhibitions and similar activities.  <br /> <br />Johnson's lifestyle some would call raucous.  He made a lot of money for his era and he spent it freely on clothes, cars, and the women he kept as companions some of which were prostitutes or former prostitutes.    One can look up to Johnson for not letting racism stand in the way of living his life the way he wanted to live it and kowtowing to no one.  One could also look askance as his philandering, spendthrift way of life, but who are we to really judge?  Undoubtedly Johnson brought some of his problems on himself.  Also undoubtedly he was treated unfairly because of the era in which he lived in.  Had Johnson lived today he might get some negative press, but more likely he would have a legion of fans who willing to overlook some of the things he did in his private life.   <br /> <br />Cars were relatively new invention in early 1900's and Johnson loved cars and bought several of them. He often liked to drive fast.  This too eventually caught up with him as, while speeding, he swerved to miss a truck and rammed his car into a tree. He died in 1946 after an adventurous 68 years.  <br />  <br />Note this book is the companion to Ken Burn's documentary of the life of Jack Johnson using the same title.  I have not viewed the documentary yet but plan to.  <br />	2005-03-26
US	50909784	R330HEP9VPVS7P	0399122400	726391443	Blind Voices	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Blind Voices: Excellent Novel about the Fantastic	When Haverstock's Traveling Curious and Wonder Show rolls into the small town of Hawley, Kansas the townspeople begin to stir.  The magic and allure of seeing Tiny Tim, a mermaid, medusa, a Cyclops, a snake woman, and most of all, the Angel Boy, brings them all out to see the show.  Are these unnatural creatures real or is it sleight of hand?  Exactly how do they do that?      When Evelyn Bradley, a small town girl, runs into the show's strange but alluring Angel Boy, things begin to seem out of kilter and not quite real.  There is both more and less than meets the eye with the odd collection of creatures surrounding the show.  And strange things begin happening around town during the show's stay.  As Evelyn delves into the mystery of the Angel Boy, things begin to get stranger and more dangerous, not just for Evelyn, but the whole town.    In Blind Voices, Reamy has written a novel that reminds me a lot of some of Ray Bradbury's best works like The Illustrated Man.  The attraction of the traveling circus and freak show and the magic, wonder, and latent fear that surrounds them comes to life in this novel.  Reamy does and excellent job of setting the novel in rural Kansas in 1920's, which you learn from the language and plot without it being mentioned.  The story unfolds at a pace that leaves you wondering where he's going next until you find out the secrets behind the secrets.  And once the story takes off, its becomes both a seat of your pants thriller and a tender love story at the same time.  This is an excellent work of fiction.	2005-03-22
US	50909784	R16BHKRZT0IH6B	1582616027	725247683	Tales from the Jets Sideline	Books	2	9	11	N	Y	The New York Jets in Brief, Since 1993	Tales from the Jets Sideline is a very disappointing book.  It's almost difficult to know where to start in detailing its many shortcomings.  Jets fans and football fans in general will find very little here worth bothering with.   <br /> <br />But first a little bit about what the book is about, which unfortunately isn't much given the rich and varied history of this team.  Cannizzaro essentially serves up a hodgepodge of short vignettes about the New York Jets players, coaches, and owner from 1993-2003.  Most of the tidbits are nothing new, nothing particularly interesting, and seem to be items gleaned from the \\"Sports In Brief\\" section of the newspaper.  He probably should have called the book, \\"Jets in Brief, Since 1993.\\" <br /> <br />The book is organized in chapters primarily around the Jets many coaches with the owner and a few prominent players thrown in for good measure.  So we go through the laundry list of chapters: Bruce Coslet, Pete Carroll, Boomer Esiason (QB), Rich Kotite, Leon Hess (owner), Bill Parcells, Curtis Martin (RB), Bill Belichick, Al Groh, K and Q (Keyshawn Johnson and Wayne Chrebet), Chad Pennington (QB), and Herman Edwards.  Thus we get snippets and snapshots of these particular coaches, players, and their teams. <br /> <br />If there is a theme to the book it is that the Jets, since 1993, have been cursed with very lousy coaching, with the exception of Bill Parcells.  Parcells resurrected the Jets, took them to the AFC Championship game after the 1997 season, then abandoned the team to drift in a mire of mediocrity for another few years.  But it ends on a hopeful note with praise for current coach Herman Edwards and the bright future of quarterback Chad Pennington. <br /> <br />The most interesting part of the book was the impact the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had on this team and the fact Jets players were ready to boycott a game if the NFL had not decided to postpone the season by one week after the attacks.  I could almost add the chapters on the contentious relationship between Keyshawn Johnson and Wayne Chrebet and the surreal episode of Bill Beleihick resigning almost immediately after being named head coach but there was no inside information and nothing new in either of these stories. <br /> <br />The bottom line is this book just isn't very good and tells us nothing even a somewhat casual fan doesn't already know about the New York Jets.  The New York Jets have a rich history and hardly any of it is detailed here.  The book doesn't even pick up the Jets story until 1993 but the team has been in existence since 1959.  So there is no Joe Namath and his guarantee of the Jets' improbable upset win over the Baltimore Colts in Super Bowl III, the highlight of the team's history.  There's no Freeman McNeil, Wesley Walker, Joe Klecko and Mark Gastineau and their Gang Green defense.  In short, we miss out on hearing about most of the Jets greatest moments and greatest players.   <br /> <br />While this book is short and quick a read, I can't imagine even Jets fans find too much of interest here.	2005-03-20
US	50909784	R2TWB5929T0QRO	1401601936	895763369	You Might Be A Redneck If ... This Is The Biggest Book Youve Ever Read	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Collection of Jokes from Jeff Foxworthy	You Might Be a Redneck If... is a funny collection of the standup comedian Jeff Foxworthy's, you might be a redneck if jokes.  There are many laugh out loud funny redneck jokes here - so if you want to stick a few in your back pocket to be the funny guy or gal at a party, this is a good source of material. <br /> <br />While reading these jokes on paper is not nearly as funny as seeing Foxworthy perform them live, this book will provide you a few laughs in your leisure reading time. <br />	2005-03-09
US	50909784	R3NG0Y0DF0GNOS	0765311593	79181987	The Gods and Their Machines	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Excellent First Novel	The Gods and Their Machines is a top notch young adult science fiction novel and an allegory for the viscous cycle of real life, modern day terrorism. The story is set on an unnamed planet where two nations are in a state of undeclared war that is carried out through terrorism. One side, the Altima, are technologically advanced for their planet, live in urban settings, and have a generally high standard of living. The Bartokhrin are technologically behind, poorer, and live in a rural, pastoral setting. Each have ugly stereotypes of the other, some of it deserved. The Bartokhrins are seen by the Altimans as backward, superstitious, barbaric people who carry out terrorist attacks in Altiman cities against innocent civilians without provocation. The Bartokhrin see the Altiman as a rich, spoiled, powerful people who have stripped and used Bartokhrin resources to the detriment of their ecology and economy. Not surprisingly, the Altiman carry out their campaign against the Bartokhrin using their superior power and technology. The Bartokhrin use terrorist tactics such as suicide bombers and assassination.  <br /> <br />The story centers on two young people, Chamus Aranson, whose father and grandfather are politically powerful men in Altiman society and Riadni Mocranen, a rebellious young Bartokhrin tomboy who rebels against her father and naively goes off to join the terrorist movement in her state - the Hadram Cassal. Each of these young people have grown up socialized to hate the other and believe with religious passion the negative stereotypes of the others' people. They have also each experienced first hand the terror the others' society has inflicted upon their respective states. Chamus, on a flight training exercise, crashes into the \\"fringelands,\\" the home of the Bartokhrin, where Riadni comes across him. Riadni shows her humanity by not turning him over to the Hassam Cassal who would surely hold him hostage and may eventually kill him, thus getting herself into trouble with this violent faction when they discover her deception. These two are thrown together in a situation where they must depend on each other to escape their circumstances and survive, while learning the truths, and untruths, about each other and their people.  <br /> <br />What makes this an excellent novel is the clever way McGann pulls the curtain aside and shows how mostly false stereotypes and lack of understanding lead to the seemingly intractable hatred and tit-for-tat violence that rends these two different peoples apart. It's a perfect example of how modern day terrorism and systemic violence has torn apart the Middle East and Ireland, to name a few examples. But it goes further to show that there are nefarious and evil people on both sides of the conflict. Stereotypes aren't born in a vacuum, they inevitably have a kernel or more of truth to them. And the use of two young people thrown together in a life or death situation who have grown up to hate the other but still are open minded enough to learn about each other, however reluctantly, offers hope for the future of their society. This is the strength and heart of this novel.  <br /> <br />There are a few minor drawbacks. Occasionally there are some inconsistencies on the part of the characters that are forgivable but noticeable. Another slight quibble is the author never explains, even briefly, the origins of this planet and it's obviously human citizens. Finally, at times, the story drags a little. But these are minor faults for well done first novel.  <br />	2005-02-23
US	50909784	R2LL436095WQO4	0765303299	402534105	Gaudeamus	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Good Concept for a Novel but not Entertaining	John Barnes has taken a unique approach to his newest novel.  Using his real name and written in the first person, John is sitting in his home office one day writing - or at least attempting to write - when his old, eccentric friend Travis Bismark shows up the door.  Travis spins a tall tale about corporate espionage.  As time goes on, Travis comes in and out of the picture telling taller and taller stories.  Corporate espionage, to a drug that induces ESP, to a strange gadget that can move objects in time and space, to aliens buying and selling the planet Earth and a group of aliens and humans trying to save it.  The thing is, John never witnesses anything first hand.  It's all told by Travis.  Is it just a tall tale?  Or is it real?  We'll never know. <br /> <br />While I thought the concept of the novel was pretty good I quite honestly was mostly bored by it.  The aliens in the book seemed completely farcical and seemed like something a high school kid would come up with.  Maybe that was planned to give the whole story more of an \\"is it real or isn't?\\" it aura.  But the bottom line is, I wasn't that entertained by the novel. <br />	2005-02-06
US	50909784	R3KD4Z30UD2RIB	074348861X	383080222	Very Bad Deaths	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Quirky entertainment	Very Bad Deaths is quirky and entertaining.  We meet some very unusual people in this adventure.  <br /> <br />It all starts when an old college roommate knocks on Russell Walker's door in the middle of the night.  Poor Russell is a recent widower and columnist for a Toronto newspaper and not feeling too good about the world at the moment.   This knock on the door in the middle of the night and the request for help by his old college roommate, Zandor Zudenigo, aka Smelly, jumpstarts Russell, reluctantly, back to action.  Now Zandor is a very, very strange character and happens to know that a man named Allen plans to kidnap and kill an innocent family in a very painful and horrible manner.  Allen is the worst kind of sadist imaginable and Russell feels he has no choice to help stop this monster.  The problem is - Zandor can't go to the police himself, for reasons you'll find in the book.  So Russell must do it for him.  Fortuitously and by happenstance Russell runs into Constable Nika Mandic (both literally and figuratively), a Vancouver cop whose career is stalled.  I don't want to give away too much of the plot - but Russell has a lot of work to do to convince Nika that his request is legitimate and he's not some nut, another fun part of the story.   But eventually the chase is on as this odd troika sets off to find Allen and put an end to his heinous plans.   <br /> <br />This is a very quirky and entertaining novel and is as much about the characters and their personal plights as it is an adventure story.  It's a real page turner from beginning to end and is hard to put down.  Definitely a thumbs up. <br />	2005-01-20
US	50909784	R28TTMP100Y8H9	0195166787	975176923	A New History of India	Books	1	17	26	N	Y	A Poor History of India	A New History of India by Stanley Wolpert is a one-volume history of India.  Unfortunately, it is not a very good one.  It appears to be written as a textbook and has many of the faults of textbooks covering such a vast subject.  I often felt I needed an expert on Indian history to fill in the gaps.  While one can empathize with the tremendous task of writing a one volume history of any country, the great failing of this book is that it does not give the reader a good overall perspective on the political and socio-economic development of the country.  Additionally, there are poor linkages between one era and the next as the book moves from ancient to more modern times. <br /> <br />This history starts by providing an ecological setting and tracing the history of the Indus peoples from circa 2500 BC forward.  These chapters are very short and bereft of the details one needs to understand the development of the culture, politics, and economics of the country.  There is a lot more to be said about early Indian history than is provided here.  Often the book jumps from one theme or era to another without adequate connections to provide an understanding of the significance of events.  This is even true of the chapters on the Mughal Empire, although here the text does a slightly better job. <br /> <br />The book is on much firmer ground when discussing modern Indian history, starting with the gradual absorption of India into the British Empire.  There are fuller details and linkages between events leaving the reader with a better understanding of this era in Indian history.  Nevertheless, there are still gaps in providing the reader with enough information and insight to fully appreciate India's development. <br /> <br />As a result of these shortcomings, I cannot recommend this book to the general reader. <br />	2005-01-20
US	50909784	R3RMB8SROV9GAV	081223491X	970437946	India Against Itself: Assam and the Politics of Nationality (Critical Histories)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Monograph on Assam and Northeast India	Baruah has written an excellent monograph on the political turmoil in Assam and other parts of Northeast India.  He clearly explains the political, cultural, religious, economic, and ethnic roots of the insurgencies.  I learned a great deal about the socio-economic history of Assam and how the current political strife developed out of this history and the relationship - or lack of relationship one could say - between Assam and the rest of India.  Beyond historiography, Baruah explains how state policies have fostered the separatist movements and how different policies may have produced a different outcome.  And while this is an academic approach to the topic, it is very readable and very well organized.	2005-01-05
US	50909784	R6H2QBFGRYCLP	158261525X	228697210	Tales from the Patriots Sideline	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Nostalgic, a Lot of it Bad	Michael Felger provides a mini-history of the New England Patriots through a series of chapters, ordered mostly chronologically, that details many of the woes, and a few of the highlights, of this historically inept team.  Being a Patriots fan, this was a very nostalgic book.  Unfortunately, many of the memories are bad ones.  While this is not an in-depth detailed team history, Felger hits all the key events.  The book is organized into a series of very readable chapters that cover many of the laughable and the few laudable stories in the team's history. <br /> <br />There is a very consistent theme that runs throughout the book.  The New England Patriots have historically been a comically bad team, primarily because of four interrelated aspects - cash strapped or inept ownership, poor organizational structure, poor coaching, and poor quarterbacks.  The recent success of the team, on the other hand, is a result of the opposite - excellent ownership, excellent organizational structure, excellent coaching, and a good quarterback.   <br /> <br />The first couple of chapters in the book cover the team's founding and early history as the Sullivans struggled to field competitive teams.  It's a wonder the team didn't fold within the first few years of its existence.  William Sullivan bought the Patriots franchise in 1959, joining the new American Football League, which competed, unevenly, with the well-established National Football League.  From its inception the organization was very cash strapped, which at times lead to tragi-comic episodes of penny pinching.  One story related in the book is how the team was told not to get under the covers at a hotel where they were resting before a game because it would cost extra money.  Moreover, they played in poor stadiums and eventually their home stadium was one of the more miserly in the league.  Sullivan isn't viewed as necessarily a terrible owner, he just never had the cash to compete evenly with other teams.  In fact, under the Sullivans, the team eventually became one of the better teams in the NFL.  Unfortunately, Sullivan's son Pat, through a terrible investment, ran the family's business into the ground, forcing the family to sell the Patriots.  The team went through some very lousy owners until it was eventually bought by current owner Robert Kraft, who has resurrected the franchise into a model sports organization. <br /> <br />The book moves quickly to what may have been the best Patriots team ever - even better than the Super Bowl winning teams - the 1976 New England Patriots.  This team certainly featured some of the best individual players in team history, including Hall of Fame guard John Hannah, Sam \\"Bam\\" Cunningham at tailback, Leon Gray (T), Russ Francis (TE), Hall of Fame cornerback Michael Haynes, Steve Nelson (LB), Ray \\"Sugar Bear\\" Hamilton (DE), and of course QB Steve Grogan.  This is the team that should have won the Super Bowl but for an egregiously bad roughing the passer penalty on Ray Hamilton in their first round playoff game against the Oakland Raiders during the 1977 playoffs.  This game and that penalty will live in infamy for New England fans.  We got our payback in 2001. <br /> <br />There are also a lot of players profiled in the book.  Entire chapters are devoted to Darryl Stingley, who was tragically paralyzed in a pre-season game on a hit by Jack Tatum in 1978, and John Hannah, considered by some to be the best offensive lineman in NFL history.  Of course throughout the book we meet numerous players from Gino Cappelletti in the 1960's to Drew Bledsoe, the Patriots long-time quarterback now with the Buffalo Bills.  A chapter toward the end of the book is devoted to the primary quarterbacks through New England's history: Jim Plunkett, Steve Grogan, Tony Eason, and Drew Bledsoe. <br /> <br />Later chapters discuss the revitalized New England Patriots of the 1980's.  This is a team that underachieved when it had good talent and overachieved when it reached Super Bowl XX as a Wild Card team after the 1985 season.  Unfortunately, they went on to be crushed by the Chicago Bears in that Super Bowl in a painful game to watch for Patriots fans.  The team eventually imploded - accusations of drug use tore apart the locker room and coach Raymond Berry soon departed, the Sullivan's eventually sold the team and it went through a period of horrible owners, coaches, and mismanagement.  On top of that, there were several incidents of poor behavior by the players, topped off by the sexual harassment of Lisa Olson, a Boston Herald sports reporter, in 1990.  This is a period of time when I was embarrassed to be a New England Patriots fan.  <br /> <br />And finally there is a chapter on the Kraft Era - which shows how Kraft bought the team and struggled a bit to learn how to be an owner.  The first few years of ownership were a learning period that eventually led to the hiring of Bill Belichick and the establishment of a solid organization that gives the coaches and players the best chance to win.  It took some time for Kraft to find his legs, but he did it.  And the reward: a two-time Super Bowl champion team as of this writing and a successful structure that should allow the Patriots to be a top-tier competitive team for years to come. <br /> <br />There are two drawbacks to this book.  First, it basically stops after the 1996 season and treats the Super Bowl winning teams in a postscript.  Felger could have taken more time to round out the story through at least the first Super Bowl winning team in 2002 (the 2001 season).  Secondly, there really isn't anything completely new here.  Most Patriots fans will be already aware of nearly all the stories and events described in this book.  Nevertheless, there are personal touches with commentary and perspectives from players throughout the team's history and it's well organized and written. <br /> <br />Overall I would highly recommend this book for Patriots fans.  Very avid football fans would probably find it interesting.  It's a fast read.  Casual football fans I doubt would find anything compelling here. <br /> <br />Disclaimer: I am a diehard New England Patriots fan. <br />	2005-01-01
US	50909784	ROVTAOECWD7KC	0399152180	237402282	Melancholy Baby (A Sunny Randall Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sunny Randall Stands on Her Own	I have to admit I have not cared too much for Robert Parker's Sunny Randall novels because she seemed like a female version of Spenser.  This offering is an exception and is the first of this series that I have enjoyed.  Here Parker finally gives Sunny a personality and character of her own.  I read a comment in a Washington Post Book Review of this novel that said Parker can tell you more about a character in a few sentences of dialogue than any other author.  And that is certainly true here.  This fast paced novel built on the clipped dialogue Parker is known for is masterful in characterization and storytelling.<br /><br />Two stories run through this novel. Sunny's ex-husband Richie gets married which throws her into a pique of melancholy (thus the title) because she loves her ex-husband, but she finds she can't be married to him or live with him.  As a result she sees a shrink - none other than our own Susan Silverman of Spenser fame.  At the same time Sunny is on a very odd case.  An obviously dysfunctional 19 year old, Sarah Markham, hires Sunny to find out who her real parents are.  The catch is - her current parents insist she is their natural child.  As Sunny starts digging into the matter nefarious characters assault Sarah and threaten Sunny so she'll drop the case.<br /><br />Both story lines play themselves out side by side as we learn what really make Sunny tick. This is an excellent mystery novel as well as excellent in establishing Sunny as a character in her own right apart from the Spenser cannon that so many Parker fans will inevitably compare it to.<br /><br />Parker fans should certainly enjoy this novel.	2005-01-01
US	50909784	R2O5OPMIGC0Z1D	007142640X	419509753	Into the Bermuda Triangle : Pursuing the Truth Behind the World's Greatest Mystery	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	Thought Provoking	This is a very thought provoking book about the Bermuda Triangle.  The author explores and offers theories for the strange happenings and disappearances in this area, from a pre-historical very advanced race that was wiped out by a natural disaster leaving behind buried sources of power effecting crafts in this and other areas of the world, inter-terrestrial aliens, strange energy sources that we do not yet understand, and time-space warps.  He approaches these fantastic theories from a very scientific and believable viewpoint.  It's up for the reader to decide what to believe.    The drawback to this book is the first few chapters become an almost mind numbing recitation of disappearances in the Bermuda Triangle.  The writing style is rather dry so frankly the book is a little boring at times.  But some of the topics covered do indeed broaden one's thinking about the world in general and this topic in particular.	2005-01-01
US	50909784	R26LGWHOPLFNCO	0061057940	245737919	The Rift	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	A Page Turning Disaster Story	In 1811 an earthquake of the magnitude 8.0 on the Richter scale (and some say as high as 8.7) ripped through the New Madrid Fault in the Midwest making the Mississippi River run backward and devastating the landscape.  Luckily, very few people lived in the affected areas at the time. <br /> <br />Circa 2000's, with the Mississippi River controlled by the Army Corps of Engineers and urban infrastructure dotting key ports on the Mississippi, an 8.9 magnitude earthquake hits.  Goodbye St. Louis. Goodbye Memphis.  Goodbye hundreds of thousands of souls along the fault line.  And good luck to the survivors.  And thus Walter Jon Williams spins his tale of survival after the worst natural disaster in US history. <br /> <br />This novel follows the stories of many characters caught in the aftermath of this devastating earthquake.  Without detailing every storyline in the book - of which there are several - the most compelling characters are Jason Adams, a know it all bratty white teenager who happens to be on high ground when the earthquake hits and the river floods.  He soon runs into Nick Ruford, a conscientious but out of work black man on his way to rescue his family, who Jason happens upon as he's floating along the swollen Mississippi on his neighbor's boat that he fortuitously grabs hold of, The Retired and Gone Fishing.  Nick, clinging precariously to a tree and looking like something out of a horror movie is rescued by Jason.  These two very different characters form a duo that takes them through much of the devastation and into some rather harrowing events.  Indeed, they encounter most of the characters and tie the storyline together.  And why mention race?  Because Williams uses these two characters to explore racial relations and their ethnicity plays a rather key role in the events. <br /> <br />For example, we have the crazy Brother Frankland, a religious fanatic who had been preaching \\"the end is near\\" and lo and behold here it is, so he thinks.  He attemptsto set up a fascist religious camp in a remote area cut off by the earthquake.  Then we have the racist KKK sheriff Omar Paxon.  As blacks and whites fleeing devastated areas are cut off in his Louisiana Parish, you can only imagine the terrors that ensue.  General Jessica Frazzeta, of the Army Corps of Engineers is another compelling character as she tries to regain control of Mississippi river, protect a nuclear power plant from creating yet another disaster, and help survivors.  <br /> <br />There are two drawbacks to the book.  The first hundred pages or so are a bit difficult to get through and somewhat tedious, as various characters are introduced.  Once the earthquake hits, however, the novel becomes a real page turner.  I could hardly put it down.  Secondly, some of the characters seem a little bit like caricatures.  But knowing how strange the world and people are, maybe they aren't. <br /> <br />While a rather long novel (700 plus pages in paperback) it's hard to put down and keeps you anxiously turning the pages once it takes off. <br />	2004-12-29
US	50909784	RV2NY8QOSIUCR	0786412658	586063958	Subhas Chandra Bose: A Biography	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	Interesting Bio of an Indian Freedom Fighter	Chandra Bose is an elusive figure and somewhat difficult to understand in the pantheon of Indian freedom fighters.  Bose was beloved by many, mainly Bengalis, for his single minded pursuit of independence from British rule. He is reviled by many as well, for his myopic, and most would say, misguided pursuit of unsavory friends.   <br /> <br />Getz has provided a well researched and mostly even handed account of Bose.  Bose was an educated Bengali whose two political philosophies were Socialism and Indian Independence.  What is so shocking is that Bose courted Hitler and the Fascists during World War II and later Japan in an attempt to use the might of the Axis powers to defeat the British and free India.  Imagine, a non-Aryan socialist actually commingling and getting the backing, however tepid, of the racist Hitler and his Fascist regime.  Obviously both were using the other as a means to an end.  And it is clear that to Bose - the means justified the ends.  Did he really believe that had Germany won World War II they would have left India a free and independent country?  Or Japan for that matter?  One does wonder how nave this otherwise brilliant man was. <br /> <br />And Bose's Indian National Army created mostly out of Indian prisoners of war - who were indoctrinated and given freedom in return for their allegiance and willingness to fight inside India against the Allies seems almost doomed to failure from the start.  It was disaster waiting to happen. <br /> <br />Bose is quite a strange figure in India's history.  His mysterious death in an airplane accident after leaving Japan in 1945 leaves one to wonder what his next move would be and what his ultimate fate would have been.   <br />	2004-12-29
US	50909784	R6587X5ENH6AF	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An Clever Novel about Autism	Mark Haddon has written a rather clever novel from the point of view of a 15-year old autistic child - Christopher Haddon.  If we take as a given that this is an accurate portrayal of the way an autistic person's mind works, it explains and lends empathy to those with autism.  We can see how Christopher's actions, to him, seem entirely logical and normal, whereas to those he interacts with they seem bizarre and abnormal (excepting his father and teachers).   <br /> <br />The story unfolds as Christopher discovers the neighbor's dog, Wellington, murdered.  A garden rake has impaled the poor creature and Christopher decides he will investigate the murder.  His investigation is used as a tool to show his interactions with neighbors, strangers, his father, and his teacher, from his point of view as he keeps a journal of his activities.  The cleverness of the novel is that it also allows us to see how others react to him, which is illuminating.  We see Christopher from both points of view. <br /> <br />The story is also a tragedy in that as Christopher unravels his mystery - he discovers things about his family that bring the world crashing down on him.  To avoid spoiling the story I will not go into details on this, other than say the novel also shows how difficult dealing with Christopher has been on those closest to him. <br /> <br />The one frightening thing about the novel is that Christopher is amoral - not in the sense of being evil - but he thinks in a very logical fashion and has no sense of right and wrong or the consequences of his actions.  It's just the way he's wired, so to speak. <br /> <br />The novel, written in the form of journal, is also full of other tidbits about the way Christopher thinks.  For example he's a genius in math and there are a number of mathematical puzzles sprinkled throughout. <br /> <br />Overall, this was very quick read and a very interesting piece of writing. <br />	2004-12-29
US	50909784	R1XXMUGN9IHC6E	0312315139	819549251	Sherlock Holmes: The Hidden Years	Books	2	20	28	N	Y	Mediocre Sherlock Holmes Stories	I find that I just have a hard time enjoying Sherlock Holmes pastiches.  There are a few collections out there in which I have enjoyed some of the stories and not others.  This collection is mediocre at best and frankly just does not quite fit with or come anywhere close to living up to the original.   <br /> <br />This collection of stories ostensibly covers the years between Sherlock Holmes' presumed death at Reichenbach Falls in his death struggle with his arch enemy Professor Moriarity to his reappearance a few years later.  The stories are connected by an underlying theme - that Holmes is working for his brother Mycroft under the pseudonym Mr. Sigerson, not as a spy exactly, but collecting intelligence that may be useful to the British government.  The tales take us far and wide across the world from Tibet, Alaska, San Francisco, Thailand, etc.  And of course Holmes runs into a number of unlikely crimes that he solves along the way. <br /> <br />But the bottom line is, these stories are mediocre at best and I would not recommend this book. <br />	2004-12-29
US	50909784	RCORNXJB8LJ7A	1594200351	803168949	The Last Season: A Team In Search of Its Soul	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Fascinating Look at the 2003-2004 Lakers	Phil Jackson has written a very personal account of the 2003-2004 Los Angeles Lakers basketball season.  Those who follow the National Basketball Association are well aware of the soap opera season of this talent laden team and its combative stars.  Jackson's account in some ways is a sad statement on the state of professional basketball in the United States - indeed the sad state of professional sports in general.  It can also be seen as a comic-tragic clash of overpaid, selfish individuals that resulted in underachievement - yes underachievement - that this talented team did not win another NBA Championship.  The inability of this sad cast of characters to get along and foster teamwork and collegiality instead of backbiting and selfishness led to the breakup of what may be the most talent duo in NBA history in Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.     Much of the book is devoted to Jackson's attempts to meld strong, willful personalities that often did not get along into a team.  The season started really in the off-season with the acquisition of Gary Payton and Karl Malone, two future Hall of Famers who many felt would ensure the Lakers of another NBA Championship.  Then the house of cards started falling.  First, Kobe Bryant was accused and later charged with rape in Colorado, resulting in Kobe having to spend a good deal of the season flying back and forth from Eagle, Colorado to Los Angeles and must have caused a great deal of distraction for the team.  Then Gary Payton, one of the best point guards in NBA history, finds he can't adjust to the triangle offense.  Worse, Payton, so highly regarded for his defensive acumen he attained the nickname \\"The Glove,\\" can't guard anyone.  Then Karl Malone goes down with a knee injury that limited his play throughout most of the season.  And to top it all off, Bryant and O'Neal spent much of the season snipping at each other - often through the press.      Not surprisingly Jackson spends a lot of time in the book talking about his relationship to his players, notably Kobe Bryant.  He describes Bryant as a narcissistic personality with unbelievable talent.  His relationship with Bryant grew so bad that he consulted a psychiatrist during the season.  Most of his efforts with Bryant were simply directed at getting him to play within the structure of the triangle offense and within the team instead of as an individual.  O'Neal he seems to have a great deal of affinity for.  He does, however, imply that O'Neal is a bit thin skinned and at times a little soft in his preparation for games and in playing defense.  But undoubtedly he saw O'Neal as the lynchpin in the Lakers championship runs and their prospects to win another.  While Jackson spends time talking about his other players as well - particularly Payton, Malone, and Rick Fox - not surprisingly most of his time is devoted to discussing Bryant and O'Neal.  It does make for fascinating reading, especially his strategies to get the players to get along and play as a team.  Obviously, he ultimately failed in this task in 2003-2004.    Jackson spending so much time discussing personalities and relationships in the book is not surprising.  So much of winning in professional sports is the ability to take individuals of great talent and create a team.  Much of the rest of the book is devoted to basketball strategy, game preparation, and detailed accounts of the Lakers season and playoffs.  If you are a basketball fan this part of the book will be interesting as well.  And Jackson does a great job of intertwining and subtly making clear why the personal interactions between the players and between the players and their coaches is as important as X's and O's in winning championships.  Winning championships is as much as about functioning together as unit as it is strategy and talent.    One has to take a first person account such as Jackson's for what it is, one person's side of the story.  Intuitively I find Jackson's words to be heartfelt andhonest.  Not only does he blame himself and point out some of his own failings, but his descriptions of his players, particularly Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal, are borne out by other accounts (mainly the media) of their personality and clashes.  And he has, after all, won 9 NBA championships.	2004-12-28
US	50909784	R2WVMFD04ZB70Q	812150015X	657920379	A Comprehensive History of Assam	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Basic Assamese History Text	This is a well-written comprehensive history of Assam, a far Northeast state in India.  It's written at a high school level and is essentially a textbook for English speakers.  It does a nice job of providing the socio-economic and political history of the area from ancient times through India's partition after World War II. <br /> <br />This text is excellent in discussing the ethnic diversity and migrations into and out of Assam over the centuries, giving it a very unique ethnic and religious make-up.  It's also good at providing basic background on its economy through modern times.   <br /> <br />While it covers politics well enough, clearly there is no great detail in any one era.  But it certainly provides the basic chronology and important events throughout the area's history.  Especially compelling is, despite being very backward developmentally even today, Assam (or at least parts of modern day Assam) was able to maintain its independence during the Mogul reign, fought off Burmese incursions, and only lost its independence when Britain consolidated its power over India in the mid-1800's.  The book also does an excellent job of discussing the impact of the post-World War II partition on Assam and the origins of modern day ethnic and political conflict, much of it stemming from immigration and a backward, non-developing economy.   <br /> <br />Overall, this book provides the reader the basic outline of Assamese history and is handy companion for those interested in this area's development. <br />	2004-12-28
US	50909784	R1Q83GZIDWYKZU	0060757949	204703512	Patriot Reign: Bill Belichick, the Coaches, and the Players Who Built a Champion	Books	5	17	23	N	Y	Excellent Inside Look at the Champs	Michael Holly, a former sports writer for the Boston Herald, followed the New England Patriots through the 2002-2003 National Football League seasons.  He describes himself as a \\"fly on the wall\\" in team meetings, coaches meetings, and seems to have been literally everywhere with the Patriots for those two years.  The result is a well done, inside look at the inner workings of what is now considered one of the preeminent sports organizations and teams. <br /> <br />New England Patriots fans have suffered a lot of losing seasons over the years.  Painful losing seasons.  The organization, the players, and coaches were just atrocious and there was no hope in sight during stretches of the 1980's and early 1990's.  That is why the 2001 Super Bowl victory over the St. Louis Rams was so gratifying to Patriots fans.  The team's failure to reach the playoffs in 2002 was a big disappointment because it appeared maybe the Patriots where just a lucky underdog with a good run.  Michael Holly actually started following the team at the start of the 2002 season and decided to continue on in 2003.  He was rewarded with another Super Bowl run that not only legitimized the Patriots as an elite team in the NFL but legitimized the 2001 championship season as well. <br /> <br />So how did the Patriots do it?  Holley tells us.  It's through a very well organized sports team from the top down.  And it all centers around coach Bill Belichick, who sets the goals and responsibilities of all parts of the organization and then, as a team, working toward that goal, which is of course winning championships.  It relies on team work from the owner, the scouts, the trainers, the coaches, the administrative staff, and of course, the players.  And it's important to note the importance of owner Robert Kraft.  He has given Belichick the authority to run the football operation as he sees fit and Belichick responds by keeping Kraft fully in the loop and the communication channels open with the owner - something Bill Parcels refused to do.   <br /> <br />Probably the two most important functions that are necessary to win championships is finding players in the draft and free agency that fit the system and managing the salary cap.  Belichick and the Scott Pioli, Vice President of Player Personnel, and of course the coaches and scouts, have had outstanding drafts and free agent acquisitions since Belichick's reign.  And Belichick and Pioli have done a fabulous job managing the salary cap - a task that led to the release of fan favorite Strong Safety Lawyer Milloy prior to the 2003 season.  Belichick and his staff have found players with the character to fulfill their roles on the team with a winning attitude and play team ball.  Being introduced as a team instead of individually prior to Super Bowl XXXVI was not a gimmick - they really do play that way. <br /> <br />Holley's book also includes a lot biographical information about Belichick and how grew up in a football family, his father being an assistance coach for Navy, and his intense study of the game and what it takes to win.  He explores Belichick's decision to leave the New York Jets after being hired as head coach to get out of the shadow of Bill Parcels and run his own show.  And we discover that the team won, despite the drama and negative feelings surrounding the trade of Drew Bledsoe to the Buffalo Bills and the release of Lawyer Milloy.   <br /> <br />While most of the book focuses on the coach and the organization, Holley does provide the players' perspective.  While Belichick is a bit aloof with his players, the players themselves understand that the system works and winning (and losing) as a team is what they are all about.  Of course it's easy to buy into the system with two Super Bowl rings on their fingers. <br /> <br />This is a very short book and a quick read but is full of insight into the Patriots organization.  This is a must read for Patriots fans.  Avid football fans probably would also enjoy the book to see how a winning team operates.   <br />	2004-11-11
US	50909784	RP8SF79R8D3AN	0151010749	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent and Mysterious	This is one of the better novels I've read this year.  It truly grabs your interest from the first page and keeps it until the very, bitter end.  The story's narrator is Gerard Freeman who comes across some ghost stories hidden in his mother's room.  As we learn more about Gerard and his relationship to his mother we find a very dysfunctional family and suspect skeletons are truly hiding in the closet.  Gerard becomes a bit obsessed about finding out more about his over protective mother's childhood and the strange ghost stories he finds written by his great-grandmother, Viola.   <br /> <br />Why did Gerard's mother move so very far away from her family?  Why was she so violently angry about Gerard finding and reading the stories hidden in her room?  Why is she so reticent and resistant to telling Gerard anything at all about her past and about his family?  The answers to these questions figure prominently in mystery Gerard begins to unravel as an adult. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Gerard oddly comes across a pen pal he begins writing and falling in love with, a relationship that lasts throughout puberty and into adulthood without ever meeting face-to-face.  Later, again through written communication, he is helped in his quest to discover his mother's and family's past by an old friend of his aunt's.  Both figure very prominently in the story as it comes to its conclusion. <br /> <br />This is a very well written and enjoyable novel.  I highly recommend it. <br />	2004-10-11
US	50909784	R3H1JV2FLYAX31	0140231579	91075806	Whores for Gloria: A Novel (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gritty and Compelling	I've read that Vollman is the next great American novelist and you can certainly compare him to Pynchon.  I wouldn't go quite so far as that, but he certainly has an evocative, if sometimes difficult to follow prose style, that one will either find very annoying or very gratifying, depending how well you get into his groove. <br /> <br />This novel or novella is quite good. Vollman depicts a very gritty, grimy, and sometimes gross Tenderloin district in San Francisco known for it's prostitutes, strip clubs, and other nefarious goings on.  The story is about Jimmy, a low life, down and out, alcoholic who is in love with a prostitute named Gloria.  The catch is Jimmy is so addled by the end of the novel we never really know whether Gloria is real or a figment of Jimmy's imagination.  In some ways Gloria is an amalgamation of a number of street girls that Jimmy congregates with.  Whatever the case, the story is compelling - the way watching a train wreck is compelling. <br />	2004-10-11
US	50909784	R3IZHJM0S3QZAT	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining Enough	Timeline essentially uses time travel as a device to thrust modern humans into the medieval past to write an action adventure story in that setting.  It begins, for all intents and purposes, when a group of graduate student archaeologists, working on a dig under the auspices of a secretive corporation, find a note from their professor asking for help.  It just happens the note was written during the Middle Ages.  Thus, they are whisked off in a corporate jet and thrust into the past to find the professor and bring him back.  So begins the fun as they have to maneuver their way in an unfamiliar environment, and around bad guys, good guys, and in-between guys, and a woman too.  There's plenty of fighting, blood, gore, and a little romance. <br /> <br />Overall, this novel is entertaining enough but nothing to get overly excited about. <br />	2004-09-21
US	50909784	R3FCTEH4BJBT3M	0446676101	341459311	Lilith's Brood	Books	4	190	206	N	N	Fascinating if Flawed Butler Trilogy	Review by C. Douglas Baker <br /> <br />This is a collection of three novels that make up the Xenogensis Trilogy.  Readers interested in the trilogy should read the series in order: Dawn, Adulthood Rites, and Imago.  <br /> <br />DAWN introduces the reader to a fascinating alien race that intends to save a post-nuclear holocaust earth by repopulating it with half-human, half-alien beings.  The concept of crossbreeding through genetic engineering with an alien race to create a new species is a truly innovative storyline.  The Oankali intend to take a number of humans they saved from a nucleated earth, cross-breed with them, and reintroduce them and their alien offspring to the earth.  The highly negative reaction of the humans to this idea is very realistic and their interactions with the aliens are conceivable.  The main character, Lilith Iyapo, is a strong willed African-American woman who learns to accept the aliens for what they are but never fully comes to accept their plans for the human race.  <br /> <br />The Oankali are an imaginative race with three genders, the third being a necessary intermediary between the male and female Oankali during intercourse and for procreation.  Therefore it is not surprising that the \\"third\\" gender (it is not really neuter) is the dominant gender of the race.  They travel in an interstellar ship that is entirely made of living tissue and the Oankali physically interact with the ship to produce food, dispose of waste, and reproduce other needs.  The Oankali travel about the universe and cross breed with other sapient beings out of necessity.  Humans are just another of their  \\"victims\\" or \\"beneficiaries\\", depending on one's point of view.  The new species is ostensibly better than its parent species. <br /> <br />Part two of the Xenogenesis Trilogy, Adulthood Rites is much more engaging and well thought out than its precursor, Dawn.  The first half-human, half-Oankali male becomes the focal point for the Oankali attempt to cross-breed with humans.  According to the Oankali, the human male is very dangerous and prone to violence.  Indeed, the human male is the embodiment of the so called human contradiction that leads to self destruction.  If this human/Oankali \\"construct\\" is flawed and prone to destructive tendencies, the whole genetic \\"trade\\" or cross-breeding would be jeopardized.  Indeed, the Oankali themselves would be jeopardized. <br /> <br />Akin, the half-human, half-Oankali male child is kidnapped by human \\"resisters\\" who have refused to mate with the aliens at the price of their own fertility.  The Oankali, while lengthening the life and health of these human survivors of nuclear holocaust, plan to allow them eventually to become extinct.  The best human genetic traits would then be carried by the new species of Oankali whose genes were mixed.  The aliens decide to allow the kidnapped child to remain with the resisters for some time so he can learn about his human side.  The novel centers around Akin's rectifying his conflicting loyalties to his human and alien selves. <br /> <br />Adulthood Rites expands on the alien Oankali and leads the reader to an understanding of why they must cross-breed with other races.  Their raison d'etre is to collect and expand upon all life forms and become a better race through adapting the better traits of races they come into contact with.  They view life in a more holistic fashion, as consisting of the cells and even sub-atomic particles of living matter.  Every being is genetically engineered to function for a purpose.  The purpose of the Oankali is to collect and expand upon life forms, including their own.  We can surmise that at their origin, the Oankali looked nothing like they are currently described as they have continued to metamorphosis genetically over the ages. <br /> <br />Bulter does an excellent job of portraying human reaction to the aliens who want to cross-breed with them but allow the human race as they know it to become extinct.  We can both empathize with Lilith who has, more or less, accepted the fate of the human race and has born human/Oankali children and become a member of an alien community.  While she does not fully accept the fate of her species she is resigned to it and does what she thinks best to preserve what is left of humanity.  Conversely, we also empathize with Tate, who would rather die than be disloyal to the human race by giving in to the alien predators.  The Oankali are a truly fascinating and ingenious creation. <br /> <br />The most dismaying aspect of the book is the big \\"contradiction\\" in human genes the Oankali keep proclaiming is the reason humans should be allowed to become extinct.  This contradiction is \\"intelligence and hierarchical\\" behavior.  It seems that males are particularly prone to this trait .  There is no explication as to why this is such a contradiction or why hierarchical behavior necessarily leads to self-destruction in the human race.  This was a very unsophisticated attempt to explain human tendency toward violence and destruction.  It greatly detracted from an otherwise excellent novel. <br /> <br />Part three of the Xenogenesis Trilogy, Imago completes the creation of a new species via Oankali and human cross-breeding.  Imago deals with the creation of the first \\"construct\\" (half-human, half-Oankali) ooloi, the third Oankali gender.  Ooloi are necessary for reproduction and the creation of construct ooloi represent the ability of the new species to procreate and become independent of its parent species.  The ooloi are explained in fuller detail in Imago than in the previous novels.  Here the reader more fully understands the healing and manipulative abilities of the ooloi.  The ooloi bind their mates to them through a chemical and psychological process and are equally bonded to their mates.  The major difference in the new ooloi species is their ability to metamorphosis or shape-change, which they derive from their human genes' ability toregenerate new types of cells.  The construct ooloi tend to take on the shape of their mates, thus the title Imago.  Imago is the story of Jodahs, the first construct ooloi, and the struggle to gain acceptance into both the human and Oankali community.	2004-09-15
US	50909784	R26S16XV9AOK7I	0393326713	424289102	The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Authorized Edition)	Books	5	12	32	N	N	Excellent Report: Vital Historical Document	The 9/11 Commission has done a superb job of pulling together an extraordinary amount of information to provide the American people a detailed account of the events surrounding the terrorist attacks upon the United States on September 11, 2001.  This non-partisan report is even handed and does not cast individual blame for failures leading to the success of the attacks.  Instead it talks about systemic problems within our government, especially the intelligence and law enforcement agencies, that hampered our ability to thwart these attacks.  For once I don't feel a cheated as a taxpayer.  This Commission did a fine job.    The narrative provided by the Commission is also superb.  They have taken a copious amount of information and provided a concise and very readable account of the event, and in many cases very cogent, sound arguments for what went wrong.  And they cover a lot of ground: mini-histories of Al Qaeda, it's principle players, and how it is structured and financed; the role of states like the Pakistan and Afghanistan; previous attacks on the US like the Cole bombing; pre-9/11 intelligence and law enforcement activities against Al Qaeda; presidential and executive level policy and decision making; detailed accounts of the events themselves, including rescue efforts; and recommendations for addressing the things that went wrong.    While it would take a much longer review to cover every important topic in the report, several items stand out to me as interesting and important points.    First, it is hard to cast blame for the attacks on either the Clinton or Bush administrations.  They appear to have done their best under difficult circumstances with the knowledge and resources at hand.  Instead, the failure almost entirely lies within the way our intelligence and law enforcement agencies are structured.  There was not enough sharing of information across agencies and within agencies.  As a result key information that could have connected the dots were dispersed throughout the bureaucracy and not brought together.  Interestingly, part of this difficulty was not just turf wars across agencies but that the agents and agencies were trying to follow the letter of the law - or follow the rules - that protect the rights of American citizens.  It's hard to fault them for this vigilance.      Another problem within the intelligence community was twofold.  One could be called a Cold War mentality hangover.  It appears that the mindset at agencies were still geared toward threats from large states like the Russia and they had not quite shifted gears to the more loosely organized, wily, and mobile terrorist organizations.  The exception to this would be the interagency organization specifically created to combat terrorism.  But it doesn't appear that the resources existed to do the job right, as evidenced by the lack of Arab language analysts.  A second problem, as noted above, was poor coordination between the branches of the intelligence community and between the intelligence community and the FBI.  This lack of coordination left large gaps in information any one agency had.    The FBI also had difficulties internally both in sharing information across lines, partially for legal reasons.  Additionally, the FBI was more focused on it's law enforcement mandate more so than internal intelligence on possible terrorists.  This also resulted in lost opportunities to thwart the plot.    A second key theme is the structure of Al Qaeda makes it difficult to combat.  It's international scope, it's ability to use technology like the Internet and electronic funds transfers to communicate and fund plots, and that it is loosely organized where terrorists cells can operate somewhat independently, make it a decentralized but well funded organization.  Our intelligence agencies are structured to ferret out state sponsored terrorism - not to combat an amorphous organization like Al Qaeda.  Like any far flung collection of organizations they were slow to adapt to this new reality.  In fact, the intelligence community had not adapted to the new reality of 21st century terrorist organizations.  Unfortunately, they were a step behind the times.    Many of the recommendations of the commission are essentially designed to centralize our intelligence organizations so that information is centralized so analysts can connect the dots and actions against terrorist can be coordinated properly.  Too many times under the present structure the government didn't know what it knew and the right hand didn't know what the left was doing.  I disagree with many who have criticized the Commission's recommendations.  I think their recommendations are sound.  Reform and restructuring is necessary to combat terrorism.    Third, and on a completely different topic, is the truly horrific scene the World Trade Center must have been on September 11, 2001.  The first firefighter who died on the scene was killed by a person jumping from the fiery inferno of the building.  And there were so many people jumping that others escaping the building were killed by them.  It was so bad that people on the outside of the building acted as spotters so those evacuating the building could be told when it was safe to leave to avoid being killed by a jumper or other debris falling from the building.  What a horrid and tragic event it truly was.    Finally, lets not forget all the heroes - firefighters, policemen, and citizens.  Most especially those on United Airlines Flight 93 who, upon hearing about the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center via their cell phones, fought back and brought the plane down.  Who knows what would have happened otherwise, but they liked saved a lot of other lives on the ground, assuming they were shot down before reaching Washington, D.C.    While fighting terrorism is obviously very important let's not forget one thing.  No matter how much we fear terrorism we should not sacrifice our personal freedoms to fear.My one political statement in this review is that we should be ever vigilant that our government does not use terrorism as an excuse to impose measures that take away the personal liberties we enjoy as individuals.  To do so would be conceding defeat.	2004-09-04
US	50909784	R2IIQO778WUEAP	0312868863	349837324	Somewhere In Time	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Entertaining Time Travel/Romance Novel	Richard Collier is a 36-year old writer with a terminal brain tumor who falls in love with a beautiful actress - Elise McKenna.  But there's one big problem.  She's dead.  She lived years ago in another time.  But that doesn't stop Richard who figures out a way to travel back in time and win her heart. <br /> <br />Somewhere in Time is an entertaining time travel/romance novel.  It's at times both humorous and tragic.  If there is one problem with the novel it spends a bit too much time getting to the point where Richard travels back in time.  In some ways this helps the novel because Richard uses mental will power to move through time and so the first part of the novel shows us how obsessed Richard becomes and lends believability to the story.  The understated humor as Richard adapts to 1896 and in his encounters with Elise and her mother and Mr. Robinson (her manager) are well done.  And Matheson has done an excellent job at creating the proper ambiance for the novel.  I would have liked to have a more intimate portrayal of Elise McKenna.  The first person narrative leaves her character a little less well drawn. <br /> <br />Despite these few quibbles, overall I found the novel quite entertaining. <br />	2004-09-04
US	50909784	R11MEI190ULLSS	0807083054	640447547	Kindred (Black Women Writers Series)	Books	5	289	304	N	N	OUTSTANDING	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker <br /> <br />KINDRED is one of those rare novels that grabs you by the throat and doesn't let you go until the very end.  From the first sentence, Butler's simple, straightforward prose moves the story quickly making it nearly impossible for the reader to put down. <br /> <br />Dana, a black woman living in Los Angeles in 1976, is inexplicably transported to 1815 to save the life of a small, red-haired boy on Maryland's Eastern Shore.  It turns out this small boy, Rufus, is one of her white slave owning ancestors, who she knows very little about.  Dana continues to be called into the past to save Rufus, and frequently stays long periods of time in the slave owning South.  The only way she can get back to 1976 is to be in a life threatening situation.  During her stays in the past she is forced to assume the role of a slave to survive.  She is whipped.  She is beaten.  She is nearly raped, twice.  She is forced to watch whippings and families being broken up.  She learns to enjoy hard work as an escape from the other horrors of slave life.  And she watches as a fairly unassuming small son of a plantation owner grows up to be a cruel, capricious, hot-tempered slave owner in his own right.  And to be her great-grandfather many generations removed. <br /> <br />KINDRED is about slavery and the scars it has inflicted on American society.  There are really three key factors Butler focuses on that reveal the ability of the South to institutionalize slavery.  First there is the physical abuse. The constant work, especially the physically exhausting work of a field hand, kept slaves too tired to run or become insolent.  Being ever on the verge of a lash or two for minor offenses kept slaves working to avoid punishment.  Being beaten nearly to death after escape attempts made a slave reluctant to try again; especially if this is coupled with the abuse of the slave's family.  Then there is the psychological abuse.  The continual threat of beingbeaten or watching others be beaten broke the spirits of those in bondage.  The worst punishment was sometimes having to watch a family member abused for your transgression.  Encouraging slaves to marry and have children also deadened their desire to escape.  Families made the slave settle down, gave him or her something to protect and care for.  The selling off of a few family members had a damping effect on a slave's spirit.  A most poignant example is the slave Sarah, the primary house slave; \\"Weylin had sold only three of her children, left her one to live for and protect\\".  She rarely questioned slavery, thought little of freedom, because \\"she had lost all she could stand to lose\\".  The risk of losing the one daughter she had left was too great.  Slaves that escaped had to be willing to risk not only their own life but possibly the lives of their family.   <br /> <br />The physical and psychological abuse imposed on the slave made it so much easier to accept one's lot in life and avoid the unpleasantries that recalcitrance entailed.  The ease with which Dana falls into the routines of everyday life as a slave shocks her.  Work is a refuge from the other toils of slave life and the patterns become the norm.  There is even an ambiguous feeling toward the slave owner.  The slave owner is hated for the physical and psychological abuse imposed on the slave.  But at the same time the slave loved the owner in a familial sense, even though the slave owner was seldom worthy of this.  Thus slavery became for many the accepted norm of life, even if this acceptance was a tenuous and unhappy one at best.  This acceptance was generational.  Dana at one point espies children playing at selling each other on the auction block and haggling over price.  <br /> <br />Many times throughout history sheer terror has been used to subdue a population and sap it of its strength.  One only has to look at the Tsar's of Russia like Ivan the Terrible, Peter the Great, and Stalin to realizethe extent to which terror can be used to subjugate a people.  The Southern aristocracy of the United States practiced a similar terror till 1864 and beyond. <br />    <br />There is much historical evidence for the Butler's depiction of slavery and its effects.  KINDRED is patterned after the slave narratives becoming more widely read today.  These include Frederick Douglass' NARRATIVE OF THE LIFE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS, AN AMERICAN SLAVE and Harriet A. Jacobs INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL.  Butler could have depicted the beatings and physical abuse in more graphic detail to have a greater impact on the reader.   <br />   <br />Slavery even has its effects in 1976.  The scars Dana brings back to 1976 are symbolic of the scars slavery has left on contemporary society.  Some will heal with time.  Some can never heal.  Others will scab over and be just below the surface.  But they are all there.  But in another sense healing has taken place.  Dana is married to a white man, Kevin, who is transported to 1815 with her once.  While there they both fall easily into the pattern or act of slave owner and slave concubine, roles they must assume to survive.  The ease with which they fall into these roles brings about a greater consciousness of their ethnicity.  But through this relationship Butler leaves the reader with hope.  Dana's love for Kevin is what really pulls her through the most harrowing terrors she faces and in the end gives her the strength to survive this horrible test. <br /> <br />KINDRED is written at the young adult level and moves along at a brisk pace.  I highly recommend it for teenagers and adults. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-31
US	50909784	ROAY307U4EY1X	0312282575	635122671	Knight: My Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bob Knight	<br />Whether you love him, hate him, or are neutral toward him (I'm in the last category), Bob Knight's book is a fascinating glimpse at his personality, his Indiana basketball teams, and college basketball in general.  For Indiana basketball fans (I'm an ACC fan) and college basketball fans in general (a category I fit into), this is a must read.  Knight gives a lot of detail about his Indiana teams, especially those that won national championships, and discusses his point of view on the state of college basketball today. <br /> <br />There are really two main topics that run throughout the book - and that is Indiana basketball and the controversies that have surrounded Knight - mostly because of his volatile temper.  From a basketball standpoint this is really a great inside look at the college game and the Hoosiers.  Knight's detestation of losing and lack of effort are part of what gets him into trouble because he is clearly a disciplinarian and expects a lot from his players and others involved in the program.  On the other hand that is also why his teams traditionally have been over achievers.  In my opinion, his success in college basketball has been mostly because of his coaching talent and getting his teams to play like a team instead of selfishly.   <br /> <br />Even though in some ways Knight claims, and I think in a lot ways rightfully so, that a lot of controversies about his temper and clashes with players, officials, or others is a result of his reputation and are undeserved.  Frankly, I do believe him on this account.  And he does seem contrite about some incidents that are clearly his own fault where he's lost his temper.  Some may argue that he is not apologetic enough or doesn't face his own faults in some of the controversies and I can't disagree with that either.  On these issues the reader will have to decide what to believe. <br /> <br />But either way, this is highly readable and very interesting. <br />	2004-08-28
US	50909784	RCUWYDAXGQP87	0399151885	102390096	Double Play	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Parker Scores!	Double Play reminds me why I have liked Robert B. Parker so much over the years - despite that I feel his last several Spenser novels are cookie cutter and he is on auto pilot a lot of the times.  Parker has created a unique and interesting character type - the self-autonomous individual who lives by a code of honor unique to a few and that most would never understand.  He has built this character type his entire career.    Double Play is excellent!  It fits into the larger oeuvre of Parker's work as he introduces us to a new character in Joseph Burke.  Burke has a relatively poor childhood, or at least one that doesn't appear to have much affection.  He goes into military right out of high school and gets shot up in World War II.  Estranged from his mother and alone he takes a long time to recover from grievous wounds and digs deep within himself to find his way back to semblance of a life.  Big, strong, and a natural street fighter, he tries his hand at boxing but fails.  He finds himself working as bodyguard and lands a gig protecting a mobster's daughter from her abusive ex-boyfriend.  This becomes integral to the story as he moves on to become the bodyguard for the infamous Jackie Robinson.  Burke must foil plots against Robinson's well-being and unfortunately his previous connections endanger them both.     The interplay between Burke and Robinson is extremely well done.  Parker did an excellent job here in characterization.  We don't end up with caricatures but believable and empathetic characters - or villains who deserve no empathy.  Burke is a fascinating character as are the rest of the players we meet in this drama.    I highly recommend this novel.	2004-08-28
US	50909784	R2E5XEZFRCK4PP	0345448359	532522277	Darwin's Children	Books	2	10	10	N	Y	Poor Conclusion to a Great Idea	Greg Bear is one of my favorite SF authors but I must say Darwin's Children is a real let down.  Darwin's Children, the sequel to Darwin's Radio, continues the story of a species of hominids born as result of genetic mutations caused by retroviruses.  The theory behind the story is that great leaps in human evolution have occurred suddenly as a result of these mutations - the first being a leap from Neanderthals to present day humans in the distant past.  The story's focal point is Stella Nova Rafelson who was born in the previous novel.  Society, frightened by these new offspring create what are essentially concentration camps for these children and all are required to be placed in them.  Stella's parents, Kaye and Mitch, have been hiding out from the authorities but are eventually caught.  We see how society treats these children and how they interact with one another throughout the novel as Bear attempts to explore a new species and conjectures about what the future holds for their assimilation into and obviously in the long term, absorption of the human species into something new. <br /> <br />The key problem with the novel is that the characters are not that believable and a bit rigid.  The story really meanders and gets very tedious and frankly doesn't really go anywhere until the end of the story.  Kaye Rafelson, who has an \\"epiphany\\" or religious experience, is a dead-end thread of the story and poorly explored.   <br /> <br />I'm a bit disappointed in this novel. <br />	2004-08-28
US	50909784	R2M5B0J9S8HMDY	1568026498	273463418	Congress and Its Members, 8th Edition	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Excellent Textbook on Congress	This is probably the best textbook on Congress for undergraduates that I have seen.  Primarily I like it because it's easy to read and very well written, covers all the important topics, and is not tedious.  Now you might think being easy to read isn't important since it's for college students.  But believe me, if you want students to actually read the assignment, more engaging texts are important.	2004-08-26
US	50909784	RYUI5JES8GYN1	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How Can You Not Love Calvin and Hobbes?	How can you not love Calvin and Hobbes?  This mischievous little boy with his ever present stuffed tiger and best friend Hobbes is one of the funniest and most engaging comic strips ever.  His naughty little tricks belie a good heart.  Some of the best strips are where he is philosophizing about human nature.  But of course picking on Susie is always a fun time too.  And don't you just love how he drives his parents crazy?  Calvin and Hobbes is truly a unique comic and unique characters.<br /><br />This is a comic strip collection you can read again and again and still find reasons to laugh each time.	2004-08-24
US	50909784	R11G89TW7BG42N	0553565079	834333861	Forward the Foundation	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Excellent but Disappointing End to Foundation Series	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br /><br />FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is an excellent work and very entertaining.  It is well written in the vein of the Foundation Series.  But ultimately, FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is profoundly disappointing.<br /><br />FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is a biography of Hari Seldon, filling in the areas of his life not previously covered in PRELUDE TO FOUNDATION.  FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is written as a series of novellas covering major portions and events in Seldon's life as he continues his solidification of psychohistory and prepares for the establishment of the Foundation and the Second Galactic Empire.  Hari Seldon is a fascinating character and many of his life experiences chronicled in FORWARD THE FOUNDATION were unexpected.  FORWARD THE FOUNDATION probably could be enjoyed as a stand alone novel but it is not recommended.  Without the background of the previous Foundation novels many of the events and explications of psychohistory would be much less significant to the reader.<br /><br />Two key questions remained after the last novel, FOUNDATION AND EARTH.  First, how and why was the Second Foundation originally established?  Second, was the Seldon Plan truly a failure and would Galaxia really be the future of humankind?<br /><br />FORWARD THE FOUNDATION clearly answers the first question.  The First and Second Foundations were established to be complimentary to each other.  The First Foundation is to be the backbone of the technological and political regeneration of humanity in the form of the Second Galactic Empire while the Second Foundation plays the role of advancing psychohistory and ensuring the survival of the First Foundation.  While this is relatively clear in the previous Foundation novels, the Second Foundation seems vulnerable and venal in FOUNDATION'S EDGE and FOUNDATION AND EARTH.  Both Foundations are more concerned with their own self-interest as opposed to the interest of the Second Galactic Empire or the Seldon Plan.  In FORWARD THE FOUNDATION we clearly see that they are meant to work together to complete the Seldon Plan.<br /><br />Ultimately FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is extremely disappointing as a denouement to the Foundation Series.  The major question left from FOUNDATION AND EARTH, the latest chronologically of the Foundation Series, is the fate of humanity.  It seems pretty clear at the end of FOUNDATION AND EARTH that Gaia or Galaxia, the all encompassing organic planet where every element is interconnected physically, will be the eventual fate of all humankind after Trevize discovers what he considers to be the fatal flaw of psychohistory and decides in its favor (for more detail see FOUNDATION'S EDGE and FOUNDATION AND EARTH).  Trevize claims that psychohistory does not take into account the possibility of intelligent life in other galaxies.  If such life exists then psychohistory is irreparably flawed (I think this is a terribly poor argument and lament that FOUNDATION AND EARTH was ever written).  Therefore Trevize feels he must side with Gaia so that humankind can be united if it ever faces a threat from intelligent life outside the galaxy.  Gaia is a very unpleasant and damning ending for humanity.  Humankind as one large interconnected organism is defeatist.<br /><br />Unfortunately, FORWARD THE FOUNDATION does not explicitly state that the Foundation ultimately establishes a Second Galactic Empire and that Galaxia is aborted.  FORWARD THE FOUNDATION, however, does strongly imply that Galaxia is not the ultimate fate of humanity and that the Seldon Plan works out. First, if the Foundation does not succeed why should readers, who have already seen the future, care about the life a Hari Seldon?  If Galaxia is the fate of humankind then Seldon would have played no role in the shape of humankind's future and would be unimportant in the long run. Surely Asimov would not have spent such effort writing about Seldon's life if Galaxia were to make Seldon's life ultimately purposeless.  Additionally there is the continuing entries of the Encyclopedia Galactica which states at the end of FORWARD THE FOUNDATION:  \\"It has been said that Hari Seldon left this life as he lived it, for he died with the future he created  unfolding all around him...\\"<br /><br />This passage could be interpreted that the Seldon Plan eventually molds the future of humankind.<br /><br />Whether my assumption that the Foundation ultimately establishes a Second Galactic Empire is correct or not, FORWARD THE FOUNDATION does not bring closure to the Foundation Series.  If the Seldon Plan is successful, then we must wonder how the Foundations are able to thwart the establishment of Galaxia after the seemingly firm impetus it had at the end of FOUNDATION AND EARTH.  If Galaxia is indeed eventually established, certainly the two Foundations did not acquiesce without a fight.  And both Foundations had the resources and ability to fight for their own survival and the Seldon Plan.  This conflict would have been interesting and would have made a great premise for a final Foundation novel.<br /><br />In sum I must say I am disappointed in the ending of the Foundation Series.  For the most part FORWARD THE FOUNDATION is well worth reading in the context of the preceding novels.  Unfortunately, we are left to speculate about the impending conflict between Galaxia and the two Foundations.  I would have rather speculated about the interlude in Seldon's life filled by FORWARD THE FOUNDATION.	2004-08-20
US	50909784	R141CWG5QLG8KC	0786881852	358457399	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff: Simple Ways to Keep the Little Things from Taking Over Your Life (Don't Sweat the Small Stuff Series)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Don't be Type A	This small book was a number one bestseller for it seems like forever in the late `90s.  It is a collection of small bits of advice on how to stay stress free and not to \\"sweat the small stuff.\\"  It's nicely written and provides a lot of food for thought on how not to stress out over things that, in the scheme of things, are not that important.  Stress causes a lot of illness and health problems, which is partially the point of the book.  By following some of this sage advice one can live a healthier and happier life.	2004-08-15
US	50909784	R3VBGJ6EETMEH8	019509381X	214946125	The Age of Federalism	Books	4	27	28	N	N	The Age of Federalism	This is a very detailed account of American History from 1788-1800 - which is from the ratification of the Constitution to the end of the John Adams administration.  Unless you are very interested in this period of American History I would not recommend it.  It is not an easy read for someone who has a more general interest in American History. <br /> <br />The authors do an excellent job of organizing and explaining the political events during this critical period of our nation's history.  It is called The Age of Federalism because it is during this time that those in favor of a more robust and powerful central (federal) government established the framework for how the constitution would operate in practice.  The two most important figures were George Washington and Alexander Hamilton.  John Adams could be added to this list only as a result of his becoming the second President of the United States.  His truculent personality, lack of executive experience, and inability to foster working relationships with other \\"Federalists\\" contributed to Jefferson's ascension to the Presidency 1800 and the end of The Federalist Era. <br /> <br />This was a period of time that saw the informal creation of what were, essentially, political parties.  They were not political parties in the modern sense, but two loose factions existed that broke along very fundamental conceptions of how the government should operate.  Opposite the Federalists were \\"the Republicans\\" led by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.   <br /> <br />Several key political issues divided these factions.  The most important was how much power the federal government should actually have.  The Federalists wanted a strong federal government, while Republicans leaned toward a less powerful central government with more authority residing in the states.  There were also other divides: Jefferson's idealistic (and unrealistic) conception of the country as yeoman farmers versus the Federalist's desire to foster mercantilism.  The Federalist were supposedly pro-British, while the Republicans pro-France - with reactions to the French Revolution playing a key role in factional politics.  And to some degree Federalist were seen as desiring a more elitist governing structure with limited participation by the populace in selecting the highest offices coupled with a strong executive branch, versus the supposedly more populist Republicans who desired more power in the more \\"popular\\" branches of government - the legislative branch and state governments.  The issues of standing armies, taxation, and a national bank, among other issues, all were part of this divisive period. <br /> <br />By the time Jefferson became president the federal government and its foundation were clearly established and its legitimacy secured, which is what made this era so critically important in the nation's history. <br />	2004-08-08
US	50909784	R1RZQCZTG9KAKL	0446601977	383179538	Parable of the Sower	Books	5	49	53	N	N	PARABLE OF THE SOWER by Octavia E. Butler	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker <br />  <br /> Robert A. Heinlein once stated that in writing speculative fiction the author takes a current cultural or societal trend and follows that trend to its logical, if sometimes extreme, conclusion. Butler has taken the anomie of today's central cities in the United States, with the attendant violence, drug abuse, and general disregard for community and painted a frightening and stark world in PARABLE OF THE SOWER. Butler introduces us to an America thirty years hence where to survive communities must be armed, walled, and prepared to take human life to defend themselves; an America where drug abuse has taken a radically violent turn in which a new drug &quot;Pyro&quot; induces the user to burn items, be they animate or inanimate, for a sexual high; an America where life expectancy is short; an America where violence is the norm instead of the exception. <br />  <br /> In this stark, surreal world is Lauren Oya Olamina, an eighteen year old girl with a vision. Olamina lives in a walled community that has protected itself by keeping quiet, inconspicuous, well armed, and prepared to defend itself. This all changes when Lauren's brother, Keith, enters the nefarious world beyond the walls and implicitly brings attention to this previously secluded community. Lauren finds she and her community must confront the ugly world outside the walls.  <br />  <br /> Most of Butler's works have a strong, empathetic female character that seem to carry an unfair burden in life. Lauren Olamina is no exception. Lauren has a condition called &quot;hyperempathy&quot; meaning that she feels the physical pain of others (including animals). Yet, she is willing to kill to defend herself and her family, despite the psychological costs to herself. She remarks that if everyone had her disability, violence would greatly diminish. Unfortunately for Lauren, the world she lives in is not only full of violence but inherently forces a person to eventually commit acts of violence in self-defense. Lauren also has a gradual and evolving &quot;philosophy&quot; called &quot;Earthseed&quot; that takes on quasi-religious status as the novel unfolds. This &quot;Earthseed&quot; is the thread that binds the narrative and makes the conclusion innovative and hopeful.  <br />  <br /> Butler's work is intricate and impressive in its description of a future America. There are many sophisticated parallels between the ugly future Butler paints and today's society. I really cannot do her work justice by a simple and brief description. I highly recommend PARABLE OF THE SOWER. <br />	2004-08-06
US	50909784	R1PI6TQQGW8X2N	0877799156	211621092	The Official Scrabble Players Dictionary (Third Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Essential for Playing Scrabble	You have to have this dictionary to play scrabble because it lists the acceptable words that can be used.  It's especially important when playing with people who don't play as often because some of the words you remember when playing scrabble are obscure so people will challenge you until they get burned a few times.  It's also important because people will try to make up words that don't exist so when you challenge they lose their turn if you refer to the official dictionary.  This edition is not the \\"official, official\\" word list because it's for recreational and school play.  So naughty words are not in it that should be.  Nevertheless, it is important to have handy when playing.	2004-08-02
US	50909784	R2R573U6H8U57N	0674479408	801476517	John Quincy Adams: A Public Life, a Private Life	Books	4	42	43	N	Y	Good Biography But Not Enough Politics	John Quincy Adams had a really amazing career of public service.  Being the son of one of our country's founding fathers and second president John Quincy Adams had a lot of advantages.  But it was his intelligence and hard work that merited him his many positions.   <br /> <br />It's almost hard to fathom all the public positions held by JQA in his life.  From a legislator in Massachusetts, to a long and distinguished career as a diplomat in Europe - most notably Russia where he was a close confidant of the Tzar Alexander - to Secretary of State, sixth President of the United States, and U.S. Congressman.  He even turned down an appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court. <br /> <br />Relying heavily on a very personal diary JQA kept nearly his entire adult life, this biography delves deeply into the psyche and private life of JQA, giving us an intimate portrait of his personality, family life, religious beliefs, and even some of the things that shaped his thoughts and personality.  We literally follow JQA in his day to day life.  The biography, as it stands, is extremely interesting. <br /> <br />The downfall of the book is that it does not deal enough with JQA's politics.  We end up knowing far more about JQA's religious beliefs at the end of the biography than we do about his political thought.  A perfect example is that JQA, as Secretary of State, was the primary influence behind the Monroe Doctrine dictating that European powers could no longer attempt to influence politics or colonize countries in the Western Hemisphere.  Other than crediting JQA for this, the author does nothing to explore the details of how this extremely important political stance came about.   <br /> <br />Further, while JQA's presidency may have been somewhat of a failure - mostly because he was a president elected not only by a minority of voters but a minority of the electoral college as well - it certainly deserved more than one chapter of the book.  And that chapter is almost devoid of political analysis.  (Note the House of Representatives ended up choosing the president since none of the candidates had a majority of electoral college votes, therefore JQA's power was significantly weakened and his presidency was one where the legislative branch was dominant).  This biography begs for second volume just about JQA's public or political life.   <br /> <br />Despite that flaw I did find the biography fascinating.  It certainly did give one an appreciation for JQA's pragmatism and irascibility, which are clear in his political stances and behavior. <br /> <br />Two pieces of trivia that many readers probably know.  John Adams and John Quincy Adams were the only father and son to both be President of the United States until George Bush and George W. Bush.  Secondly, JQA is the only ex-President to subsequently become a member of Congress (in this case the House of Representatives). <br />	2004-08-02
US	50909784	RQK6A8HMJEY31	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent Biography	This is simply one of the most outstanding biographies of an eminent American I've ever read.  It is exhaustively researched, provides a wealth of details about Hamilton's life without being trivial, and is extremely well written.  It also does an outstanding job of bringing Alexander Hamilton's personality to life and gives the reader a better understanding and empathy for this important founding father. <br /> <br />Hamilton without a doubt was a brilliant self-made man, rising from a poor, illegitimate, orphaned child in the West Indies to George Washington's confidant and surrogate decision maker during the Revolutionary War.  His energy, intelligence, superlative administrative skills, and unquestioned bravery during the war - along with his political skills which were vitally employed during the debates on the ratification of the Constitution - catapulted him to the office of Secretary of the Treasury during Washington's administration.   <br /> <br />This biography goes a long way toward rehabilitating Alexander Hamilton's reputation as one of the most important founding fathers.  It would take rewriting the biography to detail all his contributions.  But following are the most important ones. <br /> <br />First, Hamilton's position as what amounted to Washington's chief of staff during the Revolutionary War was vital.  He was able to use his administrative skills and intelligent decision making to relieve Washington of some of the burden of running the army.  While others were also important in this endeavor, it is clear that Hamilton was the first among equals in this position and had the trust and confidence of General Washington. <br /> <br />Second, while Hamilton's impact on the actual content of the Constitution of the United States was muted by his fellow New York delegates to the convention who opposed it, he made two vital contributions to its adoption and interpretation, that are intertwined.  Supporters of the Constitution clearly understood thatNew York and Virginia would have to ratify the constitution if it were to be successful.  They were the two largest states and without either one of them a new government would not be able to function or likely exist very long.  Thus, Hamilton embarked on a full blitz to both defend and explain the constitution, and lobby vigorously for its adoption by New York. <br /> <br />As part of this effort, Hamilton recruited James Madison and John Jay who together wrote The Federalist Papers.  While they were intended as political campaign materials to build support for the constitution in New York, they also served to explain the Constitution and how it was intended to work.  Hamilton and Madison penned most of the essays and they still stand as one of the most important documents for interpreting and understanding the U.S. Constitution.  It has been cited hundreds of times in Supreme Court cases throughout our history. <br /> <br />Additionally, Hamilton tirelessly lobbied for the adoption of the Constitution in New York, where strong opposition to it existed.  Were it not for Hamilton and Madison's efforts in New York and Virginia, respectively, it is not unlikely these states may have refused to ratify it and, in effect, stop the creation of a federal government in its tracks. <br /> <br />Third, Hamilton's determination to create a federal government that had the requisite powers to survive in perpetuity, which included creating its administrative infrastructure, were vital.  He set in place the mechanisms necessary for the government to foster economic growth and gave it a sound financial system, which were vital foundations for the evolution of the American system of government as we know it today.  As Chernow points, Hamilton created the foundation for a functional federal government, despite vigorous opposition from James Madison and Thomas Jefferson.  Hamilton was our first state builder and this may be his greatest contribution.  <br /> <br />While this is a sympathetic treatment of Hamilton, Chernow also points out Hamilton's many faults, which in some ways undermined his long-term ability to have an impact on national public policy.  His arrogance, diffidence, extremely aggressive attacks against his opponents, reluctance to compromise, and his inability to cultivate working relationships with difficult personalities like John Adams, are laid out in detail.  One can only imagine what Hamilton and Adams could have done to further solidify the federal government had they worked together instead of at odds with one another. <br /> <br />Certainly Hamilton was a very complex character and Chernow deftly paints a clear picture of Hamilton.  Hamilton certainly behaved oddly at times - from his six hour speech at the Constitutional Convention that seemed to call for a constitutional monarchy, his strange affair with Maria Reynolds, his overly aggressive verbal attacks on opponents (especially once the moderating influence of George Washington disappeared on his retirement), and his duel with Aaron Burr that lead to his death.  But at the same time it is also clear he did have a softer side to his personality.  His supposed elitist attitudes are belied by the fact he was charitable toward the less fortunate, took in orphans, and clearly cared deeply about the preservation and perpetuation of the federal government. <br /> <br />When Hamilton died at the hands of Aaron Burr at only 49 years old he had already passed the apogee of his political career.  But nevertheless, it would certainly have been interesting to have seen what he could have accomplished had he lived a longer life. <br />	2004-07-27
US	50909784	R1MQ0TB93PHKUW	0312876939	631611062	End of An Era	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting Take on the Jurassic Era	END OF AN ERA is a time travel novel back to the era of dinosaurs. Not only do we find dinosaurs but the galaxy itself is active with sentient beings, with the real surprise being a full Martian culture. It?s hard to give too much of a plot description without giving away some surprises. Suffice it say, Sawyer gives us a very unique twist on a familiar theme.	2004-07-20
US	50909784	RBD2QSF1IUEGC	0393006794	774632623	U.S. Senators and Their World (The Norton library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Overview of the Senate	The United States Senate is a unique institution created by a compromise between the large and small states at the constitutional convention of 1787.  But the institution was not all that admired by James Madison, one of the key constructors of the Constitution, as can be seen by his statement in Federalist 62:<br />\\"A government founded on the principles more consonant to the wishes of the larger States is not likely to be obtained  from the smaller States.  The only option, then, for the former lies between the proposed government and a government still more objectionable.  Under this alternative, the advice of prudence must be to embrace the lesser evil; and instead of indulging in fruitless anticipation of the possible mischiefs which may ensue, to contemplate rather the advantageous consequences which may qualify the sacrifice.\\"<br />Whether this was the personal opinion of Madison, or just propagandized agreement with his New York audience is immaterial.  It is obvious from this passage the Senate was not welcomed with open arms by all segments of the political world, especially the large states who were not proportionately represented.  The Senate does carry out one very important function- it protects the &quot;residual sovereignty&quot; of the States (Federalist 62).  Thus, the Senate was created and the States protected.<br />Out of this compromise has grown an institution, a deliberative body, with a unique and surprising cohesiveness.  One would expect that Senators from fifty different states and localities to do more serious and violent battle over legislative policies.  But, except for the Civil War era, the Senate has been a relatively cohesive body.  This cohesiveness and congeniality has given the Senate a level of strength and respect unmatched by the United States House of Representatives.  Donald R. Matthews in U.S. Senators and Their World discusses many attributes of the Senate that creates this unusual cohesiveness and collegiality.  <br />The Senate has institutional characteristics that spur it toward cohesiveness.  First, it was set up to attract a certain class and type of representative.  Thus, the Senate is a very homogenous group, consisting mainly of older, white, wealthy, protestant males.  This homogeneity alleviates class differences which often lead to conflict.  Second, the Senate is a fairly small group.  Since there are only one hundred members, there is more of a basis and opportunity for them to interact with each other on a very personal level.  Also, the size of the group leads to a dispersement of the workload and power to all members, encouraging them to work together.  <br />Further, the electoral cycle and the six year term gives Senators the ability to spend a larger portion of their resources on power and policy goals instead of reelection compared to their House counterparts.<br />Senatorial norms growing out of almost 200 years of practice have also greatly added to the cohesiveness and collegiality of the Senate.  As Matthews points out, various Senatorial &quot;roles&quot; have grown in the institution giving the body a congenial working environment because each member knows what to expect from others.  Another norm in the Senate that alleviates conflict is the seniority system.  Freshmen quickly learn they are expected to serve an &quot;apprenticeship&quot; and keep relatively quiet in floor debates.  Freshmen who break the norms will generally have a more difficult time moving up the ladder to power and prestige.  Seniority is also the key arbiter of committee selection and chairmanships, cutting down on conflict that would arise if the caucus system were the sole source of committee selection.<br />Specialization is another key element of senatorial cohesiveness and congeniality.  Senators usually become experts in policy areas, leading to respect and power in their area of expertise.  This makes seniority even more important because the elder statesmen in a policy area gain recognition as leaders in their field.  Experts are listened to by their colleagues who depend upon them for information in specific policy areas.  This is an example of how the body works together to deliver clearer legislative policy.  Even if two experts form two factions, usually along party lines, there is at least a clear message coming from the chamber delineating the alternatives.  This is not the case in the House.<br />Courtesy, reciprocity and institutional patriotism are other norms that give the Senate a collegial atmosphere according to Matthews.  Senators, regardless of their differences of opinion, are expected and do show respect and courtesy to their colleagues.  Senators also lend each other assistance and bargain over legislative matters frequently.  According to Matthews, the most effective legislators, operationalized as percentage of sponsored bills that passed, are those who most closely adhere to senatorial norms (115). <br />Committees also have a cohesive and collegial effect on the Senate.  This may be surprising since committees have the opposite effect in the House.  In the House committees create decentralization and fragmentation.  Further, the power of committee chairmen is greatly reduced by their large number and the proliferation of sub-committees.  This leads to poor, incoherent policy.  This phenomena is greatly reduced in the Senate because it is a small body.  Hence, the committee chairmen form a distinct leadership group because their seniority, rank, and definitive number give them respect and prestige.  <br />Further, the pursuit of power and policy goals in the Senate does not lead to decentralization and fragmentation as it does in the House.  The Senate is smaller and each individual member has a substantial degree of power and media attention vis a vis his House counterpart simply by being a member of the upper chamber.  Also, there are more power and policy making positions available. <BR> <BR>Matthews had providedan excellent overview of the modern US Senate.	2004-07-11
US	50909784	R2A58LDK4BANLW	0300018096	740854322	Congress: The Electoral Connection (Yale Studies in Political Science)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Congress The Electoral Connection	The goals of individual congressmen have a significant impact on the quality and power of Congress as an institution.  The exact role of Congress is a much debated issue but it can be safely stated that at a minimum, Congress is to make quality public policy, which in aggregate, benefits the nation as a whole.  The extent to which this is achieved is in large part dependent on the willingness and ability of Congress as a collection of individual goals and desires to strive toward this end.<br />David Mayhew assessed that the main goal of congressmen was to gain re-election.  In this never ending quest for popular support, the legislative and oversight duties of congressmen takes a back seat to advertising, credit claiming and position taking.  In other words, Congress' vast resources are expended in allocating benefits to small constituencies and not toward responsible, cohesive and nationally oriented public policy.  Staff and office material are used for keeping in touch with constituents and casework.  Committees are platforms for position taking and pork barrel politics.  And parties and party leaders focus on doling out favors, setting agendas and protecting the habits and routine of the organization.  This results in delay, narrow policies directed at small segments of the population, a tendency to favor the legislative preferences of organized constituencies, especially those with a proven power to deliver money, manpower and votes, and finally symbolism.  The end product is poor public policy with little cohesion and direction.<br />Mayhew's assessment of what drives individual members of Congress could be debated.  But his conclusion that the policy making is fragmented and disjointed is difficult to argue with.	2004-07-11
US	50909784	R3MVJH0ROQB2DO	0451528816	78796814	The Federalist Papers (Signet Classics)	Books	5	74	78	N	N	Vital to Understanding the US Constitution	The Federalist Papers is probably the most seminal discourse on the U.S. Constitution that has ever been written.  While there are occasional inconsistencies and undoubtedly many of the founding fathers that took part in the Constitutional Convention and favored adoption of the Constitution would disagree with some of its contents, it is vital reading if one hopes to understand the original intent of the founders.	2004-07-11
US	50909784	R36F4D06KWGZIM	0380521830	79559742	The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court	Books	5	39	41	N	N	An Inside Look at the Supreme Court	Despite being a bit dated, The Brethren, by Bob Woodward and Scott Armstrong, remains one of the most illuminating looks at the inner workings of the Supermen Court.  And certainly it will remain a very interesting historical look at the court it examines.<br />The Brethren attempts to present the reader with what &quot;really&quot; goes on in the Supreme Court.  It describes the conferences, the personality of justices, and how justice's feel toward each other, items which are generally hidden from the public.  Covering the terms from 1969-1975, Woodward and Armstrong gives us a look at the fourteen justices and how they dealt with the major issues facing the court.  The book describes how Burger changed his conference votes so he could assign the majority opinion of the court, angering William Douglas and William Brennen.  He also describes how Thurgood Marshall greeted Burger &quot;Hey chiefy baby&quot;, getting a kick out of making him feel uncomfortable.  The reader sees how Harry Blackmun agonized at being considered Burger's &quot;boy&quot; which eventually led to his breaking away from the conservative wing of the court.  Woodward also tells of the lack of respect the justices had for the abilities of Chief Justice Burger, who wrote poorly reasoned opinions that embarrassed some members of the court.<br />The main thesis of the book is how the moderates control the opinions of the court.  A majority opinion must have the vote of at least five members of the court, therefore the opinion becomes a compromise between the author of the opinion and his joining brethren.  Even when an ideologue writes an opinion, his opinion must be amended to maintain the votes of his brethren.  Therefore, the majority opinions of the court usually reflect a somewhat moderate solution, as compared to the ideological make-up of the court.  <br />The Brethren also relates how politics play a key role in the decisions of the court.  Justices have predispositions to every case they decide, and most have an ideology that influences their decisions.  The role of the moderates on the court is also an example of how politics effects the decisions of the court.  If a president is able to appoint enough justices of his political persuasion, the court's ideological make-up will change, as will the direction of the court's decisions.  Justices on the court do worry about the effect of new appointments to the Supreme Court.  When President Gerald Ford appointed Justice John Paul Stevens to the court to replace Justice Douglas, Brennen and Marshall worried about the future of abortion and busing, fearing a new conservative justice might vote to overturn or limit the scope of decisions in these areas.  These are a few examples of the role of politics in the Supreme Court.<br />The strengths of this book include its in-depth view of court personalities, antidotes, and relationships between the justices.  These are aspects of the court normally not made public.  Another strength of the book is its description of how cases are decided, and how a court is &quot;built&quot; (a majority opinion).  Further, the reader gets an understanding of the factors that influence a court's opinions such as ideology, compromise, persuasive arguments, and even interaction with the clerks.<br />The major weakness of the book is the lack of documentation. There is absolutely no documentation for the material presented in the book.  Woodward's disclaimer is he got the information on background and deep background, meaning the sources go unnamed.  He also claims he read memos, unpublished and rough draft opinions, and other unpublished written material generated by the court.  Despite the lack of documentation The Brethren remains a must read for students interested in law and politics.	2004-07-11
US	50909784	RM8CTM6XKY1BX	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Green Mars by Kim Stanley Robinson	This second volume of Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars Trilogy is a very worthy Hugo winner. Although there are elements of RED MARS I did not like (which I'll not go into now), with RED MARS as a background, I found GREEN MARS to be brilliant. If you haven't read Red Mars, don't tackle this volume first.<br />KSR really did his homework in studying the social scientific aspects of his novel (as he did with the rest).  The metanational and transnational corporations are a believable outgrowth of current economic trends and their reactions toward Mars and its denizens in GM logically follows their development in the novel.  KSR also did a better job of staking out the various issues and ideologies involved in terraforming, giving the policy and political middle-ground between the Reds and the policy of the Transnational Authorities (which is terraforming as quickly as possible moving toward a viable atmosphere on Mars).  <br />The Part entitled &quot;What is to be Done&quot; was excellently written and extremely realistic (even if I have trouble believing that with all the political elements represented that some didn't opt out because of ideological extremism).  That the group left without any real political action plans made the section even more convincing.  The culture of the youth born on Mars seen through the eyes of members of the First Hundred shows a wonderful sense of cultural development with all the elements it entails including genetics, the Martian environment, and how they were raised (interacting with the first two).  KSR does not do quite as well at developing individual characters in GM but his characterization does lend itself to understanding the motivations of individuals and empathy <br />The long descriptions of the Martian landscape is at times hard to appreciate given that I have never been to Mars and have never studied photos of Mars' surface and landscape.  I like the two places where there were small maps of Mars in the text.  The developmentof large, complex living environments with the limited resources of those outside &quot;the net&quot; or the umbrella of the metanational corporations that control most of Mars is hard to perceive too. But this is easily overlooked at the sake of the larger picture that GM paints.	2004-07-08
US	50909784	R275SLZF0JJP6A	0671789457	239209793	Possessing the Secret of Joy	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Complex and Textured	Alice Walker states that the secret of joy is \\"RESISTANCE\\", which sums up the book nicely.  But there is more to this single word.  Resistance to what? Resistance to injustice, in this case specifically the injustice of genital mutilation...but Walker clearly means for this resistance to include other forms of injustice. Such as, you ask? Racism, sexism, bigotry in any form.<br />Walker's books, including this one, convey the psychological damage of perpetual abuse of a person throughout not only their own life but the life of their ancestors. Therefore, racism and sexism heap psychological damage on their victims for enerations--not to mention the clear sociological problems that germinate from them.<br />Why does \\"resistance\\" bring joy? First, if the injustice is eventually defeated it will bring a new found freedom and autonomy. If nothing else, resistance provides the resister with a moral victory over his or her opponents, which in the end, brings our ill-fated protagonist joy.  <br />The more specific sexual aspect of the book is also embraced by this concept. Resistance to the injustice of genital mutilation, on both the individual and collective level, brings sexual pleasure to the individual and to generations of individuals yet to come.  So sexual pleasure also is part of the \\"secret of joy\\", only in this case it is a specific instance of what \\"resistance\\" can eventually accomplish.	2004-07-08
US	50909784	R2GV6PUDEOHCBL	0812524802	688034485	Moving Mars: A Novel	Books	4	2	8	N	N	Moving Mars by Greg Bear	The key failure of MM that greatly deterred my enjoyment of it is the flat characters and relationships. Bear's main character, Casseia, is a weak attempt at portraying not only a female character but a political power.  It seems Bear attempted to give Cass a Heinlein-like, unassuming, brilliant, politician/scientist aura--but it falls flat. Completely flat.  As does all his other attempts to describe human relationships. The personal interactions just did not seem real. FLAT seems to be the best word to describe them. <br />Bear's description of the political interactions also seemed flat. Here I refer to the entire build up of the Martian independence movement, the creation of the constitution, and the new government struggling to maintain power. The entire construct did not seem to fit very well and the evolution of this movement did not seem cogent. There just did not seem to be the kind of motivations necessary to sustain the impetus of the movement for a new government or a full explication of Earth's motivations in sujugating Mars.  Further, while nanotechnology seems to be somewhat of a fad in SF these days, I felt the unexplained abilities nanotechnology in MM to be almost silly. And, even though the theory of the &quot;descriptors&quot; that were manipulated to change the &quot;reality&quot; of matter, by the end of the novel it seemed almost contrived.  <br />So why did I give the novel 4 stars?  I found I did enjoy reading the novel quite a bit.	2004-07-08
US	50909784	R3EB1P5RPA9VGG	0395663601	873978864	For Country Cause and Leader: The Civil War Journal of Charles B. Haydon	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Real Civil War Soldier's Life	This is a truly fascinating first hand account of what the Civil War was actually like for the common solider, something you don't fully appreciate from academic accounts of battles and campaigns.  It is accounts about soldier's day to day life as they are fleshed out in Haydon's journal that are really illuminating.    For many Civil War soldiers, as for all soldiers, day to day life is tedium and it is the small every day things that make up their daily life.  Haydon almost daily notes what the weather is because it was of such great consequence to someone who slept and lived outdoors for the most part.  He dwells more on the weather when it is rainy than when it is nice. He also frequently talks about the state of his belly. He often tells us what he ate that day and whether or not the rations are any good. Much of the time he spends complaining about the lack of quality and quantity of the food. He also, at one point, goes into great detail about the massive quantities of coffee he and the other soldiers drink and comments how quickly one gets used to strong, black coffee made with muddy water.  He also admonishes the extreme lack of discipline in the men, the many fights, and the massive consumption of alcohol (he drinks in moderation). He laments that he can see many good men as \\"worthless drunkards\\" in five years at the rate they are going. He also comments on the stealing, giving some darkly humorous accounts of how the soldiers steal everything not nailed down or guarded.  He humorously states that \\"If the men pursue the enemy as vigorously as they do the whores they will make very efficient soldiers.\\"  Sickness of the men is also prevalent, especially diarrhea and fatigue.  All this is the life of one solider in the Civil War.    Hayden is also somewhat introspective. He talks of having given up a law career to join the Michigan 2nd and take up arms against the rebels, seeing it as his duty.  After being in the rearguard at the first Battle of Bull Run henotes more frequently how he does not expect to live out the war and that his chances of coming out of it alive are less than fifty-fifty.  He does not seem terribly troubled by the prospect and notes that he has taken to a soldiers life quite well (unlike some others). He seems somewhat resigned to his fate.  Coming into Baltimore where sentiment there was positive sentiment for the rebels, tension was high and he notes that he \\"rammed his first load ever intended for a human mark\\" and leaves it at that. After his first \\"kill\\" he said he was surprised by how \\"cool I took it.\\" He even talks about gazing at the stars and the enjoyment he gets out of it on a clear night. He is also fairly good at describing the land he's in. He noted that he was somewhat surprised at how he was able to adapt to living as a soldier with little sleep, sleeping outdoors, in rain, in leaky tents, in the cold and having gotten used to poor food.     Although there is poignant account about feeling otherworldly in the heat of battle and wondering about his own bravery once the shooting starts, he doesn't seem to be afraid of bullets or battle and says his heart pounded more during a Dress Parade in front of the general than when bullets go whizzing by.  He also has a good sense of humor that pops up frequently and is surprising given his situation.  He must have been fairly well respected because he became a 2nd Lt. in fairly short order.    A very interesting account of a solider's life.	2004-07-08
US	50909784	R1KLPSH68VWG8E	0553280643	542044764	The Gate to Women's Country	Books	3	28	32	N	N	The Gate to Women's Country	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker    Tepper's The Gate to Women's Country has been a lightening rod of criticism for its frank, some would say, unfair treatment of males.  Having read and heard many negative comments about the feminist agenda pursued by this novel,  I fully expected a diatribe against males and a utopian society ran by women to the be the centerpiece of the story.  Little did I expect the unfavorable assessment of both sexes found here.  Males are depicted as being violent but easily manipulated by symbolism and perceived threats to of their \\"manhood\\".  Women are depicted as weak-willed and inclined toward poor judgement.  The Gate to Women's Country  is not \\"hard science\\" fiction, nor is there much action or plot to engage the reader's interest.  Nevertheless, it is a compelling work that explores, sometimes stereotypically, male and female behavior.      The Gate to Women's Country is set in a post-holocaust Earth, segments of which have been settled and ruled by women.  Inside walled enclaves women have established a system whereby males are forced to live outside the society of women in armed encampments unless, at specified ages, they expressly desire to live in \\"Women's Country\\" and abide by the rules established therein.  The rigid military caste set up by males on the outside, however, puts an unrelenting amount of pressure on males to reject Women's Country and remain warriors.  A cabal of women, through a variety of measures, including espionage and violence, effectively subjugate the male population or warrior caste.  The socio-political nature of Women's Country vis a vis its male subjects is intricately woven into the plot.    The story centers around Stavia who grows up accepting the social institutions around her but questioning their utility. She falls in love with a young warrior, Chernon, who is depicted as the typical male.  Tepper uses their relationship, especially once free from Women's Country, as an especially poignant commentary on the relationship between males and females generally.  Tepper paints a dismal future for both relationships.      Tepper is equally scornful to women as to men here.  Women's Country is an undemocratic society ruled by a self-selected group of councilwomen.  These councilwomen are secretive and deceitful toward the remaining population of Women's Country.  They feel this necessary because women take foolish actions based on \\"infatuation\\" (with particular males of course) and cannot be trusted with the secrets of Women's Country.  The council looks, with some disdain, upon the rest of the women, who are easily manipulated using the same symbolic rhetoric and gestures used to control and manipulate the male population.  Indeed, the women seem very compliant and unquestioning of the prerogative of the council to rule.  The compliant nature of the women and the cyclical revolts of the men are implicit comments on the basic nature of the sexes.    The society set up by Tepper is really a \\"negative utopia\\" along the lines of George Orwell's 1984 or Adolus Huxley's A Brave New World.    Stavia's eventual acquiescence in the methods used by the council in Women's Country to maintain its dominance over males and its own female subjects is defeatist.  Through Stavia's eyes the reader realizes the emotionally barren and socially dysfunctional result of the rift between males and females.  Through this example, one can see parallels to our own society.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	RHSUVAYIXYO9L	067165604X	816543640	Ethan of Athos	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Mild Entertainment	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Ethan of Athos is a difficult book to review because the bulk of the novel is a rather average adventure story set in the universe of Bujold's Miles Vorkosigan stories.  It does have some very engaging and thought provoking peripheral details, however.  <br />Ethan is from an all male planet where women are seen as little more than demons.  The planet is entirely based on homosexual relationships between males who must form contracts for permission to reproduce.  Reproduction is accomplished artificially through the use of ovaries purchased from other planets.  Athos is cheated out of a group of ovaries they purchased from Jackson's Whole so Ethan, being the head of one of Athos' reproduction centers, is sent as an emissary to discover what has occurred and to purchase new ovaries.  Arriving on Kline Station, Ethan, who had never seen a woman before and views them as evil incarnate, is saved from being abducted by Jackson's Whole thugs by the vivacious Elli Quinn of the Denderii Mercenaries.  Elli Quinn, Miles Vorkosigan fans may recall, is the attractive, aggressive, female bodyguard of Miles.  Thrown into the mix is a paranoid telepath fleeing the same Jackson's Whole thugs.  Each are interested in the missing ovaries for their own reasons.  The tenuous teamwork of these three incompatibles sets up humorous interactions as the mystery of the<BR>missing ovaries unravels.  <br />Despite a promising plot the novel unfolds rather tediously. The novel's most engaging characteristic is its exploration of life on an isolated space station.  Within such a closed environment there is grave fear of viral and other infectious diseases.  Being the number one public safety concern, quarantine of infected persons and items takes precedence over just about anything.  Extensive recycling of all kinds of valuable resources and a quite unique air cleansing and oxygen generating system are also norms life aboard a space station.  Bujold also explores the abuse and terrible consequences of genetic engineering.  These interesting asides, along with brief glimpses of the social life on Athos and the comical, really farcical, nature of the adventure make Ethan of Athos mildly entertaining.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	RYZYT8DGXS4LM	067172083X	13412921	Barrayar	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Awesome SF	A book review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Barrayar is an outstanding work in the universe of the now well known Miles Naismith Vorkosigan.  Most of the events take place before Miles' birth centering around his mother's adjustment to becoming the wife of the new regent to the Emperor Gregory.  Barrayar is a planet with a history of political violence, intrigue, assassination, and sheer chicanery that rivals any of the medieval governments of Earth.  Aral Vorkosigan, Miles' father, survives a couple of assassination attempts, one an attack with poisonous gas that affects Cordelia while she is pregnant with Miles.  The antidote to the poison gas severely damages the fetus but Cordelia refuses to abort the pregnancy.  Cordelia recruits a research driven expert in the field of military poisons and the planet's best obstetrician to place Mile's in an &quot;uterine replicator&quot;.  The replicator is used extensively on Beta, Cordelia's homeworld, as a replacement for natural childbirth.  The zygote is placed in the replicator and it acts as an artificial womb freeing women of the inconvenience and pain of natural childbirth.  It also allows the application of treatments to Miles' fetus to keep it viable.  Cordelia wants to save her child, despite that it will be deformed and stunted in growth.  While Miles is incubating at the Imperial Military Hospital, a rebellion occurs which pits Aral Vorkosigan against an arch conservative &quot;pretender&quot; to the throne.  The pretender, Vordarian, takes possession of the capital city and the uterine replicator.  This launches Cordelia into a plot, along with her closest companions, to rescue young Miles.  Cordelia's daring evasion of her own husband's military personnel (he has forbidden her to make such an attempt) and her rescue of Miles is the highlight of the novel.<br />Barrayar is a masterpiece in character development.  The reader feels an intimate knowledge of the main characters and their relationship to each other by the end of the novel.  Aral Vorkosigan is an enlightened  man in a world of backward thinking politicians.  In a militaristic, xenophobic world where women are second class and babies with the slightest defects are aborted or let die by exposure, Aral attempts to avoid wars and conflict, marries an off-world, strong willed woman whose advice he seeks out, and genuinely loves his unborn child despite his known defects.  Cordelia is that strong willed woman who stands up not only to Piotr, Aral's conservative father who cannot bear the thought of having a deformed heir, but also launches a daring scheme to rescue her son from the clutches of Vordarian.  For anyone who has never read a Miles Vorkosigan novel, the final eight pages are a must read.  In just those eight pages one gets a humorously painted personality sketch of young Miles and what we can expect from him in the future.  Bujold also manages to maintain the drama of Cordelia's rescue of Miles, despite our knowledge of its success given previous works of Miles' adventures as a young adult.<br />The only real criticism I have of Barrayar is the writing of the action scenes.  Fighting or other quick paced activity tends to unfold too slowly taking the excitement out of the scene.  This drawback is definitely overshadowed by the overall quality of the entire work.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R32X4589VG6FTB	0671721577	821518240	Take Back Your Government	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Intriguing Heinlein Polemic	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Hardcore Heinlein fans will find Take Back Your Government to be an engaging monologue on democracy and American government.   Take Back Your Government, as the title suggests, is a polemic, albeit a light-hearted one, about the importance of participation in a democratic system of government.  Heinlein often states that if people do not participate in democracy, then they cannot complain about the corruption and malfeasance of their government.  He strongly asserts that people participating in politics does matter.  Heinlein's key message is that democracy can only survive if citizens participate and take responsibility for their government.  He conveys substantial anecdotal evidence where one ordinary person or groups of people, participating in politics, made a difference.    Without citizen participation, government becomes atrophied both morally and effectually.<br />Although written in 1947 and a bit out-of-date, one of the basic premises of the book, that local government matters and is the place to start if you are interested in politics, still holds true today.  The book is filled with Heinlein's witticisms and conjectures about the democratic political process.  One can find little fault with the facts and opinions Heinlein expresses vis a vis local politics at mid-century.  Those familiar with academic literature on urban machines, the reform movement, and local politics will find Heinlein's analysis both accurate and humorous.  The only time I found Heinlein's analysis to be questionable was in his too optimistic outlook for the possibility and efficacy of starting a third political party in the United States.  History and precedent suggest that third parties are greatly disadvantaged in the American system of government for reasons too numerous to examine here.  Probably the most enjoyable chapter is the second to last entitled &quot;Footnotes on Democracy&quot;.  Therein, Heinlein maintains that if the United State's did not have any Communists &quot;we would almost be forced to create some&quot;.  He goes on to aver: <br />&quot;any social field or group in which Communists make real  strides in gaining members or acceptance of their doctrines...is in bad shape from real and not imaginary social ills [and] the rest of us should take emergency, drastic action to investigate and correct the trouble. Unfortunately we are more prone to ignore the sick spot thus disclosed and content ourselves with calling out more cops (pages 223-224).&quot;<br />Maybe Heinlein is not quite the authoritarian his detractors would have us believe.  <br />Heinlein also has some interesting insights on the role of lawyers in politics that ring true today.  Specifically, he notes about the creation of laws: &quot;[lawyers] assert that their special language is necessary, as ordinary speech is not sufficiently exact...[yet] lawyers are forever disputing as to what a law means after they have written it&quot; (page 225).  These are just a few examples of Heinlein's clever analysis of American politics.<br />Take Back Your Government was published, I assume, mainly for fans of Robert A. Heinlein.  I doubt non-Heinlein fans would find the book particularly interesting.  The book, from an academic standpoint, is pedestrian and dated.  Therefore, the audience most likely to enjoy this book are those who have some interest in Heinlein's works.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R2SD3YYGGV0DEB	5557117962	120280264	A Philosophical Investigation	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Philosophical	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br /> London 2013.  Genetic typing has allowed the British government to identify men with a predisposition to serial killing.  Now, someone is going around murdering all the men on the list!  Thus is the setting for Kerr's A Philosophical Investigation.<br />As a science fiction work, Kerr has painted a very believable future with a variety of insights on the day-to-day ramifications of modern technology.  Gene typing allowing the government to identify potential serial killers could be used for nefarious purposes by an over zealous government.  In this case Kerr avoids the \\"big brother\\" syndrome, instead showing that the existence of this information becomes dangerous, despite the government's humane intentions.  An example of the everyday affect of new technology: a female detective gets a call in the middle of the night from a colleague, answering her picta-phone without thinking she inadvertently exposes herself and the caller makes a lecherous comment about her (...).  Homosexuals now use a new, thicker condom less likely to break.  Overuse of \\"reality approximation devices\\" (virtual reality), is likened to the overuse of LSD; many who overuse such devices begin to lose touch with reality.  None of these tidbits are at all central to the story, but along with other small insights, build up a believable future environment.<br />Readers will recognize many of the developments in 2013 London, both technologically and socially. [NOTE THESE CULTURAL VIEWPOINTS BELOW ARE EXPRESSED BY CHARACTERS IN THE BOOK, THEY ARE NOT VIEWPOINT OF THIS REVIEWER.]  Women continue to advance in social equality.  Cynically Kerr depicts governmental organizations, such as police forces, as being forced to accept women equally.  One British Minister is a black female but a former Olympic sprinter with good looks, which no doubt immensely helped her rise to this position.  Again a pessimistic, although realistic, depiction of the social advancement of women.  While the women may not always be looked upon as equals by their male colleagues, they continue to prove themselves the equal of men in most cases, and in some tasks they are deemed even better.    <br />Unfortunately, as a mystery novel, A Philosophical Investigation does not come off as well.  Kerr could have done much more to add to the suspense of the novel.  The culprit is found out early on and the conclusion seems preordained from that point forward.  The tracking and catching of the killer is mildly entertaining at times but for the most part is mundane.  <br />The real strength of this book lies in its setting and the creation of a recognizable 2013.  Kerr's understanding of the ramifications of technological advances allows him to depict the use of technology in a realistic, day-to-day fashion that is not common in the science fiction genre.  The plot and story itself are less satisfying but there is enough of interest here to entertain the casual reader.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	REL0ARSFWMJTG	067172066X	676031600	The Warrior's Apprentice	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Superb	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />The Warrior's Apprentice is a typical Miles Vorkosigan adventure.  To those who are not familiar with Miles that last sentence may look like a derogatory comment.  That could not be further from the truth.  The Warrior's Apprentice is typical because it is a fast paced, seat of your pants, romp through the universe adventure with the eccentric Miles Vorkosigan.  Bujold's entire cannon set in this universe merits high praise.<br /> The Warrior's Apprentice  finds Miles breaking his leg and being unable to complete his training in the Barrayan military academy.  A deeply depressed Miles feels he has let his father and grandfather down and becomes inconsolable.  His mother, Cordelia, sends him to Beta Colony hoping it will take his mind off his troubles at home.  Once on Beta Colony the fun begins.  Miles saves a deranged jumpship pilot from Betan security forces and in the process purchases a jumpship.  He then offers to use his new found toy to deliver armaments to a warring planet in a dead-end worm hole nexus.  The catch is he must break through an embargo being enforced by mercenaries on the other side of the worm hole.  In the meantime Mile runs across a deserter from the Barrayan military who he decides to take along with him.  Miles, accompanied by a mentally unstable jumpship pilot, a Barrayan deserter, Sergeant Bothari, Bothari's daughter Eleni, and the agent for whom Miles is working, Daum, breaks the blockade and become embroiled in a battle between mercenary fleets.  Miles, using the ingenuity he is now well know for, finds himself the captain of the a rag-tag group of mercenaries who he eventually dubs the Dendarii Mercenaries.  <br />Unfortunately for Miles, the act of creating a standing army of one's own is a capital offense on Barrayar and he must go face the Council of Counts.  In an emotionally wrenching scene Miles' father attempts to protect him from these charges.<br />This short sketch of events masks both the humor and sadness that accompany Miles on his adventure.  Bujold has the ability to elicit both laughter and sadness in her writing and she does both here.  There are few writers of any genre who are as good at characterization as Bujold.  Even peripheral characters take on a complicated psyche of their own.  And the interaction between Miles and his father, Aral, are superbly written.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R7ZMI5INHYAA1	0671720937	531934413	Borders of Infinity	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding Stories in the Miles Vorkosigan Universe	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Bujold explores the character of Mile Vorkosigan in great detail in Borders of Infinity.  This may sound like an odd statement given the numerous books that have been written about Miles, but nowhere else does Bujold really probe into Miles' personality and inner motivations like she does here.  The reader also learns more about the psyche of Barrayarans.  <br />Borders of Infinity  is a collection of three stories: the Hugo award winning &quot;The Mountains of Mourning&quot;, &quot;Labyrinth&quot;, and &quot;The Borders of Infinity&quot;.  Each stand on their own as a single story.  Miles is recounting each to Simon Illyan, his father's security chief, to account for the cost overruns of the auspicious Dendarii Mercenaries.  (Read Brothers in Arms for details).<br />&quot;The Mountains of Mourning&quot; finds Miles' dispatched deep into the Dendarii mountains to investigate an infanticide that has been laid before the feet of Aral, his father.  The local authority appears to be stifling the investigation and letting the culprit of the crime go.  Bujold uses this story to show Miles in a deeply self-conscious and introspective mood.  He is forced to confront his own deformities and what that means both on Barrayar and in the world (universe) at large.  Miles has a deep seeded inferiority complex that he overcomes throughout his life and here we see clearly what motivates Miles.  Miles is clearly haunted by the reputations of his grandfather and father, who are Vor class military heroes.  Miles innately feels he must live up to their reputations as can be seen in his reflections on his own father's stress under the weight of his grandfather's achievements.  Yet, Miles has much more to overcome being a deformed, albeit brilliant, young man.  He sets out to do so.  In this story we see why.  <br />[Minor Spoiler for &quot;Labyrinth&quot;]<br />In &quot;Labyrinth&quot; Bujold once again explores the implications of genetic engineering, especially without any moral guidelines.  The Dendarii Mercenaries are sent to assist a genetic engineer escape his Jackson Whole employers.  This geneticist has a variety of interesting genetic samples that are important to his research and refuses to leave without them.  Unfortunately he has hidden them in the calf of this part-human,eight-foot tall, incredibly strong, wolfish looking, genetically engineered creature.  Worse yet, the creature has been sold to another Jackson Whole entrepreneur and Miles must form a plan to get the material then murder the creature before the geneticist will leave.  This sets up a series of very interesting events.  In fact, at one point, this reader almost fell out of bed laughing.  <BR> <BR>Finally, &quot;Borders of Infinity&quot; finds Miles trapped in a Cetagandan prisoner of war camp.  The Miles timeline in the back of many Vorkosigan books gives away the plot and if you have not read it avoid doing so.  This too is a very enjoyable adventure and shows Miles at his best.  We also see Miles has inherited the<BR>empathy and hatred of unnecessary deaths that his mother and father have exhibited.     <br />All three stories in Borders of Infinity are highly enjoyable.  And you do not have to be a Miles Vorkosigan fan to enjoy any of Bujold's work (novels or short stories).  They easily stand as discrete pieces.  I would speculate that once you have read one, however, you will find yourself hooked.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R30NH087A9UO10	0312854927	880995093	White Queen	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Sedate Alien Encounter Novel	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Set in 2039-40 A.D., this novel of first contact creates an almost credible near future earth and avoids the cliche of vastly superior aliens swooping down to subjugate humanity and strip its resources.  Instead, Jones' aliens live among humans for awhile, cloaking their existence, until a strange emotional relationship between Johnny Guglioli, a UFO chaser, and Agnes/Clevel, an alien residing in Africa, leads to their discovery.  Jones spends a lot of time creating our future world doing a credible job on technological and ecological aspects but the socio-political aspects are more alien, and unlikely, than the extraterrestrials.  For example, the United States has been overthrown by socialists and are minor players in world politics.  Equally unlikely is the lackadaisical response of the Earth's population to the discovery of aliens and the central role played by politically marginal actors in dealing with them.  <br />Johnny Guglioli, the most interesting character, is infected with a &quot;petrovirus&quot; that destroys the substance &quot;blue clay&quot;, which evidently has replaced silicon as the key data processing material.  Being a former &quot;eejay&quot; or engineering journalist, his occupation is destroyed because he can no longer work with computers or similar machinery because his virus destroys the data processing capabilities of the &quot;blue clay&quot;.  Having his livelihood ruined he chases UFOs as a hobby, leading to his encounter with Agnes/Clevel, an alien who reveals itself to him.  Enter Braemer Wilson, a journalist ostensibly searching for a story who seems to have information about aliens possibly living in Africa.  The emotional triangle that develops between Guglioli, the alien Agnes/Clevel, and Braemer Wilson leads down a winding path of human and alien interaction, neither side quite trusting nor understanding the other.  Through the emotional attachments of these characters the reader learns about the physical and spiritual components of the aliens.  Their interactions raise the intensity level of the story and serve as a microcosm of the meandering search for understanding, frequented by severe misunderstandings, between alien and human throughout the novel.  <br />White Queen's depiction of earth a little over fifty years from now does not seem quite authentic.  And even  though the aliens attempt to shield themselves from human observation, the groping attempts at mutual understanding seem too restrained for such a momentous event.  White Queen is barely saved by its interesting human/alien interactions.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R2LL9ISAR7CRHF	067157812X	136753716	Falling Free (Nebula Award Stories)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Falling Free	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker    Formulaic.  This is the best way to describe the disappointing  Falling Free, which is predictable from page one.  The basic plot line should sound familiar: Multiuniversal (as opposed to multinational) corporation creates genetically engineered human beings that are perfect for work in free fall and drastically lower operating costs;  these \\"quaddies\\" become obsolete after invention of artificial gravity for space stations;  corporation wants to rid itself of the quaddies and cut costs.  You can imagine for yourself how they may want to dispose of them.  Falling Free also has the standard hero who wants to save the quaddies and is set up against the heartless corporate administrator who will do anything to advance in the company and cut costs.  The reader knows what will happen from page to page and it makes for a rather boring book.  There is no in-depth character analysis or drama which make the Miles Vorkosigan books so enjoyable.  I knew the basic plot and outcome of many of Bujold's Vorkosigan novels but her characters, humor, themes, and surprises from page to page made them greatly enjoyable and entertaining.  This is not the case with Falling Free.    The most interesting aspect of  Falling Free was the exposition of the horrors of genetic engineering.  The \\"quaddies\\" are four armed human beings designed to work more efficiently in free fall.  The quaddies are raised and completely controlled by GalacTech who exploits them to the fullest.  Their eduction, reproduction, reading material, free time, literally every aspect of their lives are controlled by the corporation.  When the quaddies become a liability rather than an investment the corporation cares little about how they are \\"disposed\\".  Bujold could have had a more interesting book had she explored the moral dilemmas presented by genetic engineering and its possible abuses.  Unfortunately, the reader's anger at the plight of the quaddies dissipates rather quickly because of the superficial nature of the entire book.  Bujold's quaddies are interesting, however, and she does a nice job of briefly exploring their characters.  Having been raised and educated on a space station for specific purposes affects their interactions with  one another, their sexual mores, and how they interact with two-legged creatures.    For Miles Vorkosigan fans this book is NOT a must read.  While the quaddies show up in the The Vor Game you really do not learn anything essential about them in Falling Free.   Falling Free does not approach the high quality to which Miles Vorkosigan fans have become accustomed.	2004-07-07
US	50909784	R2AA0BQYLBJD3D	0743444965	667858391	Blood Music	Books	2	9	18	N	N	Should have been left at Novella Length	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />Blood Music starts off with a promising concept and treats<BR>it in a relatively sophisticated manner.  Through the use of<BR>recombinant DNA research, Vergil Ulam, creates a sentient single<BR>cell organism.  These organisms subsequently begin to build a<BR>society to fit their needs.  This means changing the molecular<BR>structure of living creatures, including human beings, to suit<BR>them.  Thus begins (and ends) Blood Music.<br />The better aspects of Blood Music involve the exploration of<BR>the possibility of intelligent single-cell organisms.  The scenes<BR>where organisms actually &quot;talk&quot; or communicate with Vergil and<BR>later Bernard had great potential.  Unfortunately, most of the<BR>novel reads like a second rate horror flick.  I have not read the<BR>novelette that won a Hugo so I suspect the more carelessly<BR>conceived aspects of the novel were left out.  The &quot;blob&quot; that<BR>takes over New York city and the &quot;ghosts&quot; that appear to convince<BR>Suzy to &quot;join&quot; them are simply trite B-movie devices.<br />It's hard to recommend reading the entire novel.  Only the<BR>first third and second third are worth the effort.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R97ARW17RNI3G	0441847765	279823528	Life Blood (Vampire Files, No. 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Solid Installment of the Vampire Files	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />I described Elrod's BLOODLIST, Book One of The Vampire Files as &quot;comic book quality action/adventure with a bit of the supernatural thrown in&quot;.  LIFEBLOOD, Book Two of The Vampire Files, is more of the same.  LIFEBLOOD continues the saga of Jack Fleming, former reporter, part-time private detective, full-time vampire.<br />LIFEBLOOD brings back all the key characters from the previous novel and the story pretty much picks up where BLOODLIST left off.  We find Fleming still searching for the elusive Maureen, his lost love.  We also discover more of Maureen's past and why she fled from Fleming in New York.  Jack meets Maureen's sister, now a gnarled and bitter old woman, after she responds to his advertisement in the personal column.  This meeting marks the beginning of a life and death struggle for Jack.  He is chased by two comical and inept vampire hunters who Fleming, not always so swift himself, easily dupes.  But he also runs into a more diabolical and intelligent foe who nearly kills him. <br />LIFEBLOOD is actually better than the first novel because it is much funnier and the plot is less thin.  Escott plays a key role in his investigation of Maureen's past and once again has to save Fleming's vampiric hide (which I guess is kind of a spoiler but you knew he would pull through, right?).  Elrod again does a nice job of providing humor and creating entertaining characters.  And Fleming continues to have an unfortunate proclivity for getting shot in the head or otherwise severely mangled.  It all makes for good if not clean (blood stains) fun.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R3BACWPOBRL04V	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	4	16	21	N	N	The Postman by David Brin	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />THE POSTMAN is set sixteen years after a cataclysmic event (presumably a nuclear war although there is room for speculation that it may have been some other disaster such as a large comet hitting the earth) has plunged the world to the brink of a dark age.  Trying to survive in Oregon's Cascade Mountains, Gordon Krantz happens upon a run-down United States Postal Service jeep while trying to find a warm place to sleep and spends the night.  Taking the leather jacket and cap off the skeleton of his unfortunate bunk-mate, with the full regalia of the U.S. Postal Service as accoutrements, and a sack full of old mail, Gordon sets off to hunt supplies.  Thus begins Gordon's almost unconscious generation of a false legend.<br />Attempting to extort supplies from settlement in the mountains, Gordon comes up with a story about a \\"Reformed United States\\" to the east and the reorganization of a Postal Service.  Using his newly acquired postal gear as props, Gordon takes upon himself the role of a \\"postal inspector\\" who has come to reestablish postal routes and \\"inspect\\" local governmental institutions.  He even, luckily, comes up with a few letters from the mailbag addressed to relatives of people in the community as a ruse to bolster is story.  Through this reckless prevarication Gordon weaves his way into the good graces of the people he comes into contact with, simply by being a catalyst to their nostalgic remembrance of a time when the United States was a superpower and the postal service was so reliable as to be taken for granted. Gordon's \\"big lie\\" offers hope of a return to better times.<br />Traveling around in this persona, Gordon lets the legend grow, even appointing \\"postal inspectors\\" in various areas as he goes along, creating a loyal cadre of \\"followers\\".  As the legend takes hold, Gordon finds that he cannot tell the truth or back out of the duty that communities impose on him--that being giving them some hope that a betterworld is ahead and doing something to bring that future about.  They believe in Gordon and his<BR>\\"Reformed United States\\" and he cannot let them down.   <br />Despite a very promising plot, THE POSTMAN is a bit frustrating.  Authors using a lost-holocaust world as their setting must viscerally convey the extent of the catastrophe and the eeriness of a post-technological world.  Brin in THE POSTMAN fails to do so.  The reader never really emotionally feels the impact of the disaster and the odds facing the main character, Gordon.  As a result, the book never delivers the emotional blow that is necessary to make the struggle back to a semblance of civilization satisfying to the reader.  Brin is too contrite in his brief descriptions of run down cities, empty wildernesses, and struggling communities.  The novel just does not \\"feel\\" like it is set in a post-holocaust society, despite that the characters and actions take place there.<br />Brin also fails to bring life to his characters.  Even the main character, Gordon, is not as well drawn as he could be.  Brin does an even less stellar job at developing his peripheral characters.  When important persons are suddenly killed the reader does not feel the sense of grief that great authors can convey, because the reader never really \\"knew\\" the character. This is particularly true of his female hero Dana.  Her attempts to save her community and the fate of her band of \\"scouts\\" does not touch the reader because Brin never fully cultivates the reader's sympathy or understanding for her or her comrades.  <BR> <BR>That being said, I actually enjoyed the novel (surprise!).  Despite feeling estranged from the characters and plot, Brin's prose and ability to write action scenes and keep the story moving made it an enjoyable reading experience.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	RI1258JCWAY9W	0441006272	664123495	A Chill in the Blood (Vampire Files, No. 7)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	7 Vampire Files Novels and Counting	CHILL IN THE BLOOD is the seventh installment of the Vampire Files.  While it too is rather repetitive because it uses the same plot devices as the previous stories, it does have some redeeming qualities.<br />Once again Jack is in a fight with the mob and goes through all kinds of physical abuse.  I think in every story so far his head is smashed in by somebody.  But at least here we get some more insight on some mobsters Jack befriends, like Shoe Colefield, the black mobster on that side of town.  And Bobbi, Jack's lady friend, is always fun to be around.<br />Not the best of the Vampire Files by far, but not a total waste of time either.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R17ZI37YMF0NAK	0441859461	75493252	Fire in the Blood (Vampire Files, No. 5)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Reptitive from Previous Books, Mostly	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />FIRE IN THE BLOOD is somewhat disappointing.  For those who have read the previous four books in the series, it will get quite boring.  Jack is such a clumsy and sometimes stupid guy, he can't seem to keep his head from getting smashed in over and over again, despite his super human strengths and abilities.<br />The book does introduce us to Jack struggling with the morality of being a vampire and his need to feed on blood.  Elrod begins to explore this inner struggle as Jack loses controls of his actions.  But the novel leaves the resolution of these problems to future books.  If Elrod can get out of the rut of writing repetitive plots that read just like the last book, and further explore Jack's struggles as a vampire, good things will happen.<br />(And since I've now read every single one, I can tell you indeed, this does happen.)	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R3TQZFA028TAJY	0441859453	496925356	Art in the Blood (Vampire Files, No. 4)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not as much Fun as Previous Installments	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />SPOILER FOR BLOODCIRCLE, BOOK THREE OF THE VAMPIRE FIILES.<br />After BLOODCIRCLE, Book Three of the Vampire Files, I wondered where the story would lead since the mystery of Maureen's disappearance had been solved.  In ART IN THE BLOOD, Book Four of the Vampire Files, Jack Fleming, our moralist vampire, befriends a group of artists and eventually finds himself in the middle of a murder investigation.  Notice I said &quot;eventually&quot;.  ART IN THE BLOOD is meandering and irritating because half of the book could have been removed with little effect on the plot and storyline.  The first third of the book is interesting but nothing much happens.  The novel mucks around for awhile after the murder occurs.  Finally, Jack has an insight as to who the murderer is and uses his hypnotic powers of persuasion to get at the truth.  All in all, not much of story.<br />ART IN THE BLOOD is a disappointment after three fairly entertaining jaunts.  Having read the series in order the familiarity of the characters kept me minimally interested. Unless you just must complete a series once you start it like me, I would recommend skipping ART IN THE BLOOD.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R2Y1QZUIV1NR9F	044185947X	828539390	Blood on the Water (Vampire Files, No. 6)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	The Vampire Files Continue to Languish	Blood on the Water is more of the same from the last installment of the Vampire Files.  Jack Fleming once again fights the mob, gets his head and body pummeled, and struggles with his vampiric state.  That really is the plot.  If you've read the last few books, you've read this one too.  This series at this point languishes in repetitive plot devices.  What kept me reading to this point was I actually like the characters, Charles Escott, Jack Fleming, and Bobbi, Jack's girlfried.<br />Very disappointing.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R1LR0N9J8YPKRX	0441067956	185344404	Bloodlist (Vampire Files, No. 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining Vampire Adventure	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker    <br />If you like comic book quality action/adventure with a bit of the supernatural thrown in you will like Bloodlist, Book One of The Vampire Files.  Bloodlist cannot really be considered part of the horror genre because, really, it isn't that scary.  That is unless an  inept vampire getting riddled with bullet holes and blundering into trouble constantly constitutes &quot;horror&quot;.<br />Set in a gangster ridden Chicago, circa late 1930's, Jack Fleming, an unemployed reporter, is murdered.  Jack comes back as a vampire as a result of an extended affair with a vampire, Maureen.  He likens vampirism to a disease that is not contagious and is hard to catch or &quot;we would be up to our armpits in vampires&quot;.  The mysterious Maureen has inexplicably disappeared, leaving an obvious opening for the next book in the series.  But I digress.  Jack has been murdered by gangsters but his post-transformation amnesia leaves him with few clues as to why he was murdered; so he snoops around.  Along the way he runs into a personable private eye, Charles Escott.  Together they try to unravel the mystery, rather clumsily if the truth be known.  Both are rather worse for the wear by the end of the adventure.  And the mystery is really solved by....well, lets not spoil it.<br />Bloodlist certainly is not great literature but it is rather fun.  Characterization is surprisingly well done and while the plot is not exceptional it does keep the reader's interest. If you want a relaxing read where little mental energy has to be expended and the story is both humorous and fast paced, then check out Bloodlist.  On the other hand, if you are still searching for the next coming of Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles steer well clear.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	R1R5V7V8B2GP8Y	0441067174	660247706	Bloodcircle (Vampire Files, No. 3)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Vampire Fun Continues	Book Review by C. Douglas Baker<br />If you have not read LIFEBLOOD, Book Two of the Vampire files, warning that this contains spoilers for that book.<br />BLOODCIRCLE, Book Three of the Vampire Files, literally picks up right where Book Two, LIFEBLOOD left off.  After surviving his encounter with Gaylen, Maureen's diabolical and homicidal sister, Jack Fleming is found working his hypnotic magic on an initially recalcitrant police official to get out jail.  Once on the loose, Fleming and Charles Escott go in search of Maureen, Fleming's long lost vampire lover.<br />Fleming and Escott's search for Maureen is the sole focus of BLOODCIRCLE.  Their search leads them to the vampire Jonathan Barrett, Maureen's former lover who she turned to for help after her sister escaped from a mental institution placing Maureen in mortal danger.  Little did Maureen expect that she would face danger from less likely quarters.  Nor do Jack and Escott, for awhile anyway.  Their encounter with Barrett leads to two murders and two attempted murders.  And yes, Fleming gets his skull smashed in again (a quite unhealthy habit).  Once again Escott plays the Sherlockian role as he pieces together the information he and Fleming gather along to the way to discover who wants Fleming dead (again) and why.  Eventually the entire mystery, including that of Maureen, is solved.<br />If you liked the first two books in The Vampire Files then BLOODCIRCLE is definitely for you.  Then again, if you did not like the first two books you probably will not read this review or BLOODCIRCLE.	2004-07-01
US	50909784	RG62Z8J1ZGGQ1	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	4	57	60	N	N	Good Reading for Grand Canyon Visitors	When I visited the Grand Canyon in 2001 I picked up a copy of this book - Over the Edge.  It languished on my to read list until now.  Overall it's a fascinating book, if a bit tedious at times.  I suspect someone who has never been to the Grand Canyon will not appreciate the grandeur and dangers the book describes as much as this reader.  Having been there myself and being at least a little familiar with it made the book come to life that much more.<br />This book details the actual events around numerous deaths in the Grand Canyon, and offers detailed summary tables.  Whether it's falling off the edge, crashing in a plane or helicopter, getting lost and dying of dehydration, drowning in the Colorado River, getting caught in a flash flood, getting smushed by big rock falling in the canyon, being struck by lightning, getting murdered, or deciding you're life is not worth living and taking a plunge over the edge to end it all - this book covers it all.  <br />The key theme of the book is that most deaths in the Grand Canyon can be avoided if you use common sense and don't take unnecessary risks.  Most of the deaths detailed in the book are a direct result of people doing stupid things, liking jumping around or goofing off on the edge of the canyon, hiking very difficult trails (or areas with no well maintained trails) without the experience required and without enough water and food, or trying to run rapids that are too dangerous without life jackets or other safety precautions.  There are other numerous examples of unnecessary deaths as a result of carelessness or bad decisions.  Most of the deaths in the book could have been prevented by just plain ol' common sense.  Not surprisingly, most of these types of death are disproportionately young males who are over confident in their abilities.  <br />I would highly recommend this book to those who have visited or plan to visit the Grand Canyon.  Its lessons may save you from going over the edge.	2004-06-28
US	50909784	R2GBY3K0BUATSS	0972091017	902866382	Johnny Ringo	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Decent but Flawed Biography	You have to empathize with anyone writing a biography of Johnny Ringo because primary sources are scant.  Gatto should be praised for sticking to the facts and making clear where he is speculating.  This biography sheds some light on Ringo's early years in Texas and his relationship to the \\"cowboy\\" faction that squared off against the Earp brothers and others in Tombstone.  His conclusion that Ringo committed suicide and was not assassinated is backed up by the facts and is one of the few parts of the book that is well presented.<br />The great failing of this book is it is not well written and does not lay out the material in a very appealing fashion.  Most annoying is that the author often offers excerpts from newspaper accounts and then in the very next paragraph paraphrases what is in the newspaper account.  It was like reading the same thing twice.  In this edition, page 116 is a perfect example of this.<br />If you're an aficionado of western figures this is worth reading, if somewhat frustrating at times.	2004-06-25
US	50909784	R1O868QFVXOJDB	1894815351	828183909	Suffer the Flesh	Books	1	15	26	N	Y	Not my Cup of Tea	There is really nothing to recommend this novel, if you can call it that, unless you like to read about pointless rapes and torture over, and over, and over again.  <br />The shock value wears off rather fast and the brutal details become rather tedious and mind numbing.  I guess if you're into that sort of thing this book is for you.  If you like at least a little meaning to what you read, skip it.	2004-06-25
US	50909784	R3JOXBNZJZF6YL	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Fascinating Despite some Flaws	For the most part I enjoyed Illium but there are also a lot of drawbacks to it as well.  Before launching into a critique a short synopsis of the plot will set the stage.  Well, maybe not so short but as short as I can make it.    Illium follows three threads that more or less converge by the end of the book in a cliffhanger that sets up what should be a very exciting sequel.  First we follow the exploits of Thomas Hockenberry - a 20th Century classics professor from Indiana whose DNA has been recombined by post-humans on Olympus Mons (Mars) who have morphed themselves into the Greek Gods.  These capricious \\"gods\\" are replaying the Trojan War on earth as laid out in the Iliad by Homer.  The \\"scholics\\" are used to follow the war and report back to the gods.  Thomas, for reasons you'll discover, begins to intercede in ways that create unpredictable and unforeseen consequences, veering away from the events in the Iliad.    Over here we have \\"moravecs\\" who ply Jupiter's moons.  Moravecs are, in essence, cyborgs - mostly machine but with some organic parts.  They notice quantum fluxes on Mars and send a mission to investigate.  And a device that they are supposed to activate once they get to Mars.    And finally we have \\"old style humans\\" who are not really old style humans because they have been genetically modified for longevity, but are not allowed to live longer than 100 years.  They live idyllic lives, served by semi-organic machines.  They have lost all literature and all ambition.  Except for one man, Harman, whose actions also move events in new directions.    While overall enjoyable there are several things about this novel that are annoyances.  First, we never find out what is the motivation of the \\"Gods\\" on Olympus Mons for their actions?  Nor do we find out their origins.  That lack of insight into these characters is a major drawback to the story.  Nor do we find out who really controls the \\"old style\\" humans or why they even continue to exist.    Secondly,Simmons relies heavily on deux ex machina as a plot device.  I guess that might be natural where you have quantum teleportation.  I give Simmons credit for recognizing this - one of his characters makes a joke about it near the end of the novel.    Third, I suspect one who is more expert on the Iliad than I might have enjoyed the novel more.  I read it when I was high school and have little desire to go back and read it again.  But that is more this reader's shortcoming than the author's.    Overall, I can't say this is a Hugo Award deserving novel like some of Simmons' previous works.  But in the end it was entertaining and I look forward to the sequel.	2004-06-16
US	50909784	R2K1J6AMMQX0CS	0060085495	133759287	Island (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	74	83	N	N	Outstanding Satire	Huxley gives us a lot to ponder in his \\"utopian\\" schemata.  His satirical and humorous protagonist, Farnaby, was hilarious. His snide comments and thoughts made me laugh out loud at times.  I felt Huxley's writing style was much clearer and more accessible than A Brave New World and as a result I liked Island much better. Island reflects a great deal of cynicism about America and the world.  Huxley attacks, among other things (1) consumerism; (2) the cold war ideology of both the capitalistic west and the socialist east; (3) religious suppression of the right of others to develop and practice their own sexual and other \\"private\\" mores and the use of the state to further this suppression; (4) violence and militarism clothed in religion, progress (technological and moral), and so called freedom; (5) political and social corruption of corporatism and the power of corporations and those that control them to use their resources for political power. <br />The key point I feel Huxley makes is that capitalistic or corporate power in the west is able to use it vast resources to obtain what it desires.  Corporate power uses money, religion, and the greed of the State to pursue its ends.  Had the leaders of Pala given into greed then the Island would not have suffered its eventual fate at the hands of an outside force--but would have suffered an erosion of its \\"utopian\\" nature and everyone except the greedy would have lost in the end anyway.  But either way it is clear that the corporate interests will take what it desires and use the tools of religious fervor and state power to further their own ends. Its key resource, however, is still MONEY---and in pursuit of what?----more MONEY. The happiness of everyday citizens is sacrificed at the altar of corporate greed.  <br />Island was published in 1962 and really reflects Huxley's views, I suspect, of the latter half of the 1950's. Interestingly, the 1950's are marked by (1) the true rise of consumerism and corporate exploitationof American demand for goods; (2) entrenchment of the Cold War and suppression of individual rights and free thought based on ideological extremism (McCarthy, Hoover, John Foster Dulles, Castro, and Stalin are all towering figures of the 1950s); (3) the emerging battle and public expression of a new set of sexual mores which met a backlash by conservative/religious segments of society; (4) The emergence of cold war capitalism fueled both by American defense corporations and the attempt of the Soviet Union to catch up with the west in terms of industrialization and military might (Eisenhower, during his Presidency, warned of the might of the military industrial complex). Some argue the entire cold war was generated by the greed of American defense industries (this is far-fetched in my opinion).<br />The scary thing about all this--the same set of circumstances can be said to have exit today, despite the end of the cold war.  Certainly, the power of corporations to dominate the political agenda and decision making process is still intact. Whether this limits or threatens individual liberties and democracy is another question. Certainly it did in the 1950's in America. It is amazing to me the correlation between the 1950's and the 1980's at the height of the cold war in American History. (For more information on the 1950's in this country I would recommend a perusal of David Halberstam's The 1950's).  Huxley's book is as timely and poignant today as it was in 1962.  The right or ability of an individual and a society to choose how it is going to live and progress is as impeded today as it was in the early 1960's---and by the same forces.<br />Some rogue comments:<br />1. I found the discussion of \\"maithuna\\" or the \\"yoga of love\\" to be quite humorous. I especially liked Farnaby's snide thought \\"What shall be do to be saved? The answer is in four letters\\".  Is there really such a thing as \\"maithuna\\"?<br />2.  The use of mind altering drugs for experiencing a different slice of reality was provocative. Huxley wrote a book called \\"The Doors of Perception\\" which I have not read. I found these elements of the book to be interesting and really wanted more explication on the subject.<br />3.  The commentary on population control was also quite timely then and now. This exchange I found quite clear and commonsensical:<br />Farnaby:   \\"You seem to have solved your economic problems [on the Island] pretty successfully\\".<br />Dr. Robert: \\"Solving them wasn't difficult. To begin with, we never allowed ourselves to produce more children than we could feed, clothe, house, and educate into something like full humanity\\".<br />4.  One of the scary pitfalls of the book is the Island's use of psychological drugs to control and shape the personality of its children so they don't grow up to be problems. Huxley, I felt, placed too much trust in science and medicine in this instance.  This seemed to me like something not out of a peaceful utopian society but \\"A Clockwork Orange\\" (see p. 154-155 of the Perennial Library paperback edition for the reference-about 2/3rds into chapter 9).<br />5.  I know little about Buddhism and Yoga so those parts of the books I did not get as much out of, although I found them of interest. I wonder why he chose forms of these religions as those most applicable to his utopia as opposed to atheism or some form of spiritualistic religion other than Buddhism?<br />One last comment: The ending was perfect in its cynicism. (...)	2004-06-12
US	50909784	R21Z3VCUAUH86P	1885061625	526966795	You Know You're a Minnesotan If...	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good for a few Chuckles	I read this little joke book on a plane home from Minnesota.  It was good for a few chuckles.  It's similar to the \\"You Know You're a Redneck If\\" jokes that were so popular a few years ago.  The main draw back to the jokes is I didn't get a lot of them.  I think you probably have to be a Minnesotan or know the state and its people very well to get some of the humor.  Nevertheless, it was a good book to pass the time on a plane ride.	2004-06-03
US	50909784	R9MBN2RM8XB3S	1889317020	750702425	University Squared: The Angry Years	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Liberty Meadows in College	I was at the University of Maryland when Frank Cho's comic strip was running in The Diamondback.  It was the only thing worth reading in the paper.  This is a very, very funny comic strip.  The characters, who are animals are hilarious.  Dean, the pig, is a great send up on Frats and male chauvinism.  You also get a lima bean, a gerbil, and the main character, Frank, is a duck.  The best character, of course, is the very human Brandy.<br />If you've ever seen Liberty Meadows and enjoyed it in your newspaper, The Angry Years is even better.	2004-06-03
US	50909784	R1CXOM7HQS3PFI	0441010725	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	2	7	9	N	Y	Singularly Boring	The novel is set far in the future after a forced Diaspora of humans across the universe by an artificial intelligence run amok, the Eschaton.  Unfortunately, we find out very, very little about the motivations or activities of the AI - other than its prime goal is to keep humans from messing around with faster than light travel (FTL) and the possibilities of time travel it implies.  The Eschaton doesn't want anybody going back in time and changing the conditions that brought it into existence.  Other than that, the Eschaton is just background.  <br />The bulk of the novel is about a planetary system, the New Republic, run by a militaristic authoritarian regime that prohibits high technology and is intentionally isolated form the rest of the humanity.  A Marxist (yes, Marxist) revolutionary cadre has sprung up on one of it's backwater colony planets - which explodes unpredictably when a mysterious starship calling itself the Festival arrives offering the inhabitants anything they want in exchange for information (stories, theories, what have you). They suddenly find themselves will all the material and technological goods they could have ever wanted, with some unintended consequences. Sound boring yet?  It was.<br />In the meantime, two agents of differing groups but with similar outlooks - Rachael Mansour and Martin Springfield - meet and fall in love, as they continue on their missions aboard a New Republic starship dispatched to crush the rebellion.  <br />And so the story goes...<br />There are three primary problems with this novel.  First, the characters are poorly drawn, except for Rachael and Martin.  Second, the story is not well developed and the deeper motivations of various actors are poorly explained.  And third, there is far too much filler type writing such as the tedious military jargon and aimless political maneuverings aboard the star ship that do absolutely nothing to advance the story and are tedious to read.<br />Unless you want to read all theHugo nominees for the sake of it, I'd recommend skipping this one.	2004-05-27
US	50909784	R3SWRPD62H8ZAM	0521633605	161880266	The Ottoman Empire, 1700-1922 (New Approaches to European History)	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	Good Introduction to Topic	Quartert provides a broad sociological history of the modern Ottoman empire.  For someone who knows very little about the Ottoman empire it provided a good flavor of the cultural and socio-economic make-up of the Ottomans.  While the book is academic it is very well written, organized, and very assessable to the general reader.<br />The one drawback to this monograph, and this is not a criticism given that this was not the intent of the book, I did not come away with a very clear picture of the political history of the empire.  Of course generalizations about politics, how the state was run, and its relationships toward European powers are covered - but if you are looking for a detailed political history of the empire this not the book to pick up.<br />Also, while there is a very short chapter on the legacy of the Ottoman empire at the end, it left me wanting much more.  Especially since the Balkans and much of the modern day states that made up the Ottoman empire are today the flash point for ethnic and religious violence, from the former Yugoslavia, Israel, Palestine, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and Iraq.	2004-05-08
US	50909784	R2K47VGKXZX3D5	1887901140	638362951	The Civil War Bawdy Houses of Washington, D.C.	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Waste of Paper	I'm not sure why anyone would bother to publish this.  It's not really about history.  It's basically a bunch of pictures and a map of the Civil War era bawdy houses, with an occasional sentence or two.  I thought I was going to get an interesting slice of history.  Instead I got someone's collection of tidbits and pictures and a map of where the bawdy houses were.<br />I'm not sure what the whole point of this book is.	2004-05-08
US	50909784	R1CCQVF3BPUXOH	087049628X	349131784	The First of Men: A Life of George Washington	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Well Done One-Volume Biography	George Washington is probably a pretty tough person to write a biography about.  He wasn't really an intellectual and there are not voluminous writings by Washington with insights into his personality like historians have for a Thomas Jefferson, or a James Madison.    This biography is very even and insightful about the personality and life of George Washington from his upbringing, his early military career, the Revolution, and of course his Presidency.  Washington emerges as a somewhat vain man but one who, over time, appears to have gained wisdom with age and experience.      The primary quibbles I have with this biography is the author at times may make too many leaps of judgement about Washington's motivations and personality without enough evidence to support it.  Secondly, there is not a lot of in-depth analysis about Washington's generalship or his decision making process as an army commander and President.      For example, did the wily Alexander Hamilton manipulate an overmatched President to get his way on economic policy, or was Washington, if not fully understanding Hamilton's scheme, fully in charge and in agreement with it?  While the author seems to think it's the later-he doesn't really offer evidence to prove it.    Also at times it appears Washington was a bumbling over achiever who things ended up working out well for in then end, especially his early military career and early in the Revolutionary War (sometimes by Washington deflecting blame on to others).  The same could be said about his Presidency.  At the same time Washington appears to have become more mature and a better decision maker as he grew older and gained more experience.  More could have been said on these matters.    But overall, this is a well done one-volume biography.	2004-04-18
US	50909784	RGQS3WNBCF98U	0553572431	799077649	Terminal Games: A Cyberthriller	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Cyber Thriller	This is one of the best cyber thrillers I've read.  In fact, it may be the best cyber thriller I've read other than The Terminal Experiment by Robert J. Sawyer.  It begins when Marianne Hedison notices that people on an online fantasy gaming service start to die in odd ways.  Thinking it too unusual be coincidence, she ends up teaming up with Detective Nolan Grobowski, a nose to the grindstone old school investigator.  This is a very fast paced and very well done mystery novel and I would highly recommend it.	2004-04-17
US	50909784	R1J2AY5EWNRKZY	0399151451	786542099	Bad Business (Spenser Mystery)	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Parker on Autopilot	I don't like to give Spenser novels a bad review, because I love the characters (except Susan) and the series, and have gotten hours of enjoyment out of them.  But in this novel Parker seems to have basically been on autopilot and I did not find it very well done at all.<br />Here we have Spenser hired by one Marlene Rowley to follow her husband Trent because she thinks he's been cheating on her.  Sure enough, Spenser follows good ol' Trent to a hotel where he is doing whatever it is he does with an attractive blonde.  There, Spenser bumps into another PI following the blonde.  Interesting, huh?  And so it goes-Trent is the CFO for a company called Kinergy, an energy broker, and winds up dead in the corporate officers.  Spenser unravels a [...] fraudulent scheme going on, as well as a sex  ring among the major players at Kinergy.  And of course, Spenser doggedly gets it all unraveled in the end.<br />The key problem here is that the story reads like a cookie cutter Spenser novel.  Many Spenser novels in the past few years have been trending in that direction, but they usually offer at least some small insight, interesting plotline, or some tidbit that hooks you.  We have none of that here.  The plot is not that interesting, the dialogue is not that interesting, even Hawk and Vinnie are not that interesting!  (Plus, there were typos throughout the book, which were distracting and annoying).  <br />A disappointing effort.  But as a Spenser junkie, I can't wait for the next one!	2004-04-02
US	50909784	R3AKL55WFBRK96	0441011039	317086570	Cold Streets (Vampire Files, No. 10)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Another Excellent Addition to the Vampire Files	It's good to see P.N. Elrod take The Vampire Files beyond the repetitive plot lines of the first six novels.  The last three editions to this series (including Cold Sleep) have been excellent mystery novels that reveal something new about these now familiar and comfortable characters.<br />Here Jack, our vampire hero, and his partner, Charles Escott, find themselves entangled in not one, but two difficult situations that intersect with explosive results.  It also leaves room for Jack to continue to learn grow into his vampiric state.  This was a very entertaining and enjoyable novel.  I look forward to next installment.	2004-03-14
US	50909784	R2IP55OINWH0BN	1930008007	121824073	Edward Maret: A Novel of the Future	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Outstanding Science Fiction	This futuristic version of the Count of Monte Cristo is one of the best science fiction novels I have read in quite some time.  Edward Maret, a not too introspective but kind hearted and wealthy scion of a prominent family, is egregiously framed by jealous rivals (one being his cousin).  On the eve of his marriage Maret is falsely accused of being a member of a rebel group.  Other intrigues ensue, resulting in Maret's family being told he was killed in and accident, when in reality he has his memory erased and is turned into a cyborg programmed to follow orders and become a killer...soldier...cannon fodder for the state.<br />Through a series of events, AX-17, formerly Edward Maret, is captured by an alien diplomat at war with the human race and after being tortured to point of death, his memory is restored.  Just like the Count of Monte Cristo-Maret travels the universe eventually to return to seek revenge on those who betrayed him.<br />It may sound like a wild plot-but this is an extremely well written and entertaining science fiction novel.  I highly recommend it.	2004-03-14
US	50909784	R3HZ50R1HRZC9V	0312304099	74763689	The Middle of the Night	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Excellent Collection of Short Stories	This is an outstanding collection of short stories and I would suspect be up for many major literary awards.  <br />Nearly all the stories are bittersweet and bring into clear focus how we are all truly solitary creatures and nobody ever really knows another person-regardless of how intimate they are.  Nearly all the stories are written from the point of view of a secular Jewish protagonist, which is the cultural backdrop of the entire book.  What Solar does a particularly good job with is writing from various lifestages-from young, to middle-age with children, to older and retired but with a young wife and teenage son.  The stories also touch on a variety of issues from infidelity and the rending of a marriage, parenting, growing old, friendship, and interacting with people of other cultures.  <br />Overall, this is a very impressive collection.	2004-03-14
US	50909784	R3DP0PYALNZ3VA	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	5	167	184	N	N	One of the Better Post 9-11 Histories	Coll provides a highly detailed, well written account of the history of the CIA and United States in Afghanistan from the Soviet invasion to 9/11.  I highly recommend this work for anyone who is interested in how we came to the point we are in Afghanistan post-9/11, and how we inadvertently provided Bin Laden fertile ground for a successful terrorist operation.       Frankly, after reading this account, I became empathetic toward the CIA, Clinton and those in his administration, and the Pakistani and Saudi governments. Clearly their positions and actions lead to the rise of the Taliban. While lots of mistakes and maybe some shortsightedness existed among these players, they were all dealing with intricate and sensitive internal political issues that drove their decisions, or in the case of the United States, lack of action, in post-Soviet Afghanistan.     While Bin Laden would likely have existed without the safe haven he found in Afghanistan, his ability to train and draw followers so freely and with impunity is partially \\"blowback\\" from actions taken by the CIA, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia during the Soviet-Afghan war as money and weapons poured into the country.     There is also quite a bit of information about Ahmed Massoud, leader of the Northern Alliance. It's interesting to speculate how more assistance to Massoud might have thwarted or overthrown the Taliban and as a result push Bin Laden into less favorable circumstances. But given Massoud's failure as a political leader in his first opportunity, the brutality of his troops, and being an ethnic minority in his country, again one can empathize with why the United States was reluctant to pin their hopes on him.     If you are trying to decide which of the very large number of books about Afghanistan, the Taliban, and Bin Laden are worth reading, this is one of them.	2004-03-14
US	50909784	R2REC3YBGVVDMZ	0553245015	604311590	Emergence	Books	3	12	30	N	N	Doesn't Stand the Test of Time	I hate to be the naysayer in a group of positive reviews but this novel just didn't do it for me.  Two things stood out that limited my ability to suspend disbelief and enjoy the novel for what it is.  First, the post-nuclear scenario was bit tough to get into given we now live in a post-Soviet era.  Secondly, the explanation of the genetics was explained poorly, especially in light of the mapping of the human genome and novels that have dealt more deftly with a post-homo sapiens species such as Nancy Kress's BEGGARS IN SPAIN (and its sequels) and Greg Bears DARWIN'S RADIO (and its sequel).  The disadvantage of this book is being published in 1984 and not 2004.  Had I read it when it was published I probably would have loved.<br />That said the characters are quirky and interesting.  It reads much like a Robert A. Heinlein juvenile.  In fact, there are some Heinleinisms in the novel-which Heinlein fans like myself will recognized and appreciate.  The character is the saving grace of the novel.<br />Nonetheless, for me this novel doesn't stand the test of time.	2004-02-09
US	50909784	R33P5VVB3HMMZH	093091967X	212912296	Forty Eighth Virginia Infantry (Virginia Regimental Histories)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Regimental History	This is a well-organized and well-written history of the 48th Virginia Infantry which consisted primarily of recruits from Southwest Virginia and served in the Army of Northern Virginia during the Civil War.  The author does a good job chronologically detailing the daily movements and engagements of the 48th Virginia Infantry and is highly fascinating for someone whose ancestor served in the 48th.<br />If all The Virginia Regimental Histories Series are as well done I would highly recommend them all.<br />The only drawback to the book is it tells us what the 48th did in major engagements but does detail the major battles from a broader perspective nor place them into the context of the larger Confederate war effort.  Minor skirmishes often are described just like the Battle of Gettysburg and the other large engagements the 48th fought in.  As a result, the reader needs to be highly knowledgeable about the Civil War and already have this context in place to fully appreciate the events in which this Infantry were engaged.  Of course providing the larger context is not the purpose of the book and would be much longer had it done so.  Nevertheless, a reader not well versed in Civil War history will not fully appreciate the significance of the battles and events described.	2004-02-01
US	50909784	R3JPL9O8XD14L5	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Disappointing	I often wonder why quirky writing styles get such critical and literary acclaim.  This novel is certainly quirky and at times darkly humorous.  This satire of American culture uses a school shooting and the tidal wave of bad luck that befalls the idiotic 15 going on 16 year-old Vernon Little who is falsely accused of the crime.  Pierre pokes a lot of fun at the media, small town gossip mongers, the police, teenagers, and number of other convenient targets.  The characters are intentionally caricatures and very funny ones.<br />But in the end, the story just is not that interesting, not all that funny, nor all that entertaining.  I scratch my head at how this won the Booker Prize.<br />I would not have felt I'd missed out on anything had I quit after the first chapter.  It's not bad, but it's not that great either.  I would skip it if I had to do it over again.	2004-01-19
US	50909784	RGF72826PATHX	159228048X	215728484	Bert Sugar on Boxing: The Best of the Sport's Most Notable Writer	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Good Collection of Boxing Articles	This is a solid collection of articles on boxing covering boxing from many angles-mini-biographies of great boxing legends, the great fights, and social commentary.  I enjoyed the book but it is lacking in a couple of areas.  First, it would have been nice to see a fresh new piece by Sugar on the state of boxing today.  Second, there really seemed like there should be even more.  He covers a lot of great fights but there are a lot of great fights missing.  Finally, I was disappointed that there didn't seem to be a lot of \\"inside \\" information in the articles, especially the ones on the great fights.  It's a nice, if not great, collection of work.	2004-01-06
US	50909784	R1L2I6XPSWVVZ1	074325998X	759058813	For Us, The Living: A Comedy of Customs	Books	4	7	9	N	N	For Heinlein Fans	Spider Robinson's introduction pretty much says it all about this lost novel of Robert Heinlein's.  It's not really a completed novel, per se, and clearly lays out a lot of the ideas Heinlein later pursued in other novels and short stories.<br />The publication of this work was clearly for people already very familiar with Heinlein's writing.  I would highly recommend that those who have not read Heinlein NOT start with this novel.  <br />Of course, all Heinlein fans will want to check it out to see the embryo of his later works.	2003-12-30
US	50909784	R2BPVFTPSL9XLW	1578601398	156153826	Barry Sanders Now You See Him: His Story in His Own Words	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Now You See Him...	Although a bit pricey, mostly because it's produced on slick paper and contains a bonus DVD, this is a well-written \\"autobiography\\" that gives one insight into Barry Sanders.  From his parents, to growing up, high school, and his college and pro careers, Barry takes us through some of this thoughts and feelings through each stage of his life.  What this book could have used more of is some insight on what it is really like to play in the NFL and some of the seamier sides he alludes to but never provides details of.  And of course, he finally answers the question all football fans have been asking since his retirement-why?<br />The DVD is not very good, by the way.  It's a pretty boring collage of famous runs and career achievements.  They could have done much more with it.	2003-12-30
US	50909784	R3A1SGBSAMX0IL	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Unique and Entertaining	While this novel is about a lot of different things, it is primarily a love story with a wicked twist.  Henry meets Clare and falls in love, she is six, he is 36, and 14, somewhere.  Henry, it seems has a problem.  He bounces around in time willy-nilly with no control over where he goes.  Clare grows up knowing Henry, and then meets him when she is 20 and he is 28-the catch is Henry doesn't know her.  And so it goes.<br />This is a clever, fast-paced, and very entertaining novel.  While we are bounced around into different time frames the author has done a great job of organizing the novel so the reader has not trouble remembering where we are-even if Henry isn't always quite so sure.  There's also some great foreshadowing.  I would quibble with one overall plot element that was a bit distracting for me, but it's a bit of spoiler so I'll let it be.<br />This book was a lot of fun to read.	2003-12-06
US	50909784	R39F5SF25G5ZOB	0441004091	852451175	Tramp Royale	Books	4	13	13	N	N	For Robert Heinlein Fans	This out-of-date travelogue, written in the 1950's by one of the most decorated science fiction writers and published posthumously, was clearly published for the ready market of Robert Heinlein fans thirsty for anything written by the Grand Master.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and all Heinlein fans will too.  His wit, pragmatism, and personality shine throughout the book-even when covering the more mundane subjects such as the quality of hotels to the red tape involved in traveling.  I especially enjoyed getting a glimpse of his wife's personality as well.  They make for some of the more humorous vignettes in this work.<br />The last chapter is probably the best where Heinlein takes off his gloves, so to speak, and allows himself to become a political pundit and talks about what he learned on his trip.  This, for me, was the most interesting part of the book.  Nothing there will surprise Heinlein's fans gleaning his political/social viewpoint in his novels, but it was fascinating nonetheless.<br />This book frankly is not for a general audience.  I can't imagine that anyone not a fan of and familiar with Heinlein's works would find this book particularly interesting.<br />It's a must read for Heinlein fans.  But of course, everything he wrote is a must read for his fans.	2003-11-30
US	50909784	R21E1KTRDO9TLQ	0312199996	59617800	A Scientific Romance: A Novel	Books	2	10	17	N	Y	Sloppy Plot Devices	This is an interesting concept novel used to drive home a point about technology and scientific hubris run rampant that eventually chokes our planet and all but destroys the human race.  <br />In 1999 David Lambert, really a rather wandering soul, is a museum curator who has lost the love of his life to Mad Cow disease and his best friend in a falling out over a nasty love triangle involving the same woman.  Unbelievably a letter falls into his hands that purports to be from H.G. Wells informing the reader of the return of the time machine to London-a fiction that turns out not to be fiction.  So off he goes on his jaunt into the future.<br />This is a poor attempt at using the time travel concept as a plot device.  There are just way too many coincidences and way too many convenient plot devices to move the story along.  And it drags on unrelentlessly in the middle with some very tedious slogging as the author gets carried away over describing the future he finds.<br />At times, the novel is very good and it does have some merit.  But frankly, the plot devices used, especially in the end, undermine the novel.	2003-11-16
US	50909784	RCJ08C7DFW8OH	1400050596	41924248	Whatever You Say I Am: The Life and Times of Eminem	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Eminem in Context	If you're looking for a light pop culture, tabloid style biography of Eminem-this is not the book for you.<br />Instead we have a well laid-out mini-biography of Eminem that places him within the context of American society and current popular culture.  It also serves to put Eminem in context within hip-hop history and culture, discussing racial themes and how Eminem has managed to succeed in a predominately black arena, both because of and despite his race.<br />There are a few key drawbacks, though.  First, the book is clearly pro-Eminem.  I certainly did not want to read a lot of Eminem bashing, being a fan.  But the lack of any real criticism is telling-especially given the controversy surrounding him.  Second, occasionally I think the author stretches logic a bit with some of the parallels he draws between the rise and success of Eminem within the context of American culture at large.  Finally, the author relies a great deal on the commentary of music critics.  It would have been nice to see a broader array of views outside the music industry than is offered here.<br />Nevertheless, this book does succeed as a mini-biography of Eminem and hip-hop history, so for those interested , I would recommend the book.	2003-11-09
US	50909784	R38J6AEL5CBRJZ	0446532452	935112124	The Wedding	Books	3	44	65	N	N	Boring	The Wedding is a real disappointment as a sequel to the wonderful The Notebook.  I found this latest work by Sparks to be boring and average at best. The first two-thirds of the book are especially dull. The last third is more worthwhile, if you make it that far, where some humor and lightheartedness makes the story mildly interesting.    The story itself is about a middle-aged couple where the spark seems to be out of the marriage because the husband is rather dull and inattentive. With the kids out of the house the marriage has become routine. As Wilson, the husband, realizes his faults he attempts to make amends and reenergize his marriage. He uses his daughter's upcoming wedding (thus the title of the book) as a catalyst to make amends for his failings. The real catch for Sparks fans is that Wilson is married to the daughter of Noah and Allie, the couple from The Notebook. Noah plays a peripheral but important part in the novel.    Unfortunately, this novel does not live up to some of Spark's other excellent works.	2003-10-19
US	50909784	REFRXU4NJAEV5	0399150870	884197365	Stone Cold (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Predictable but Entertaining	Any fan of Robert Parker, especially those who like his Jesse Stone novels, will find this novel enjoyable. <br />This work is more about developing the character of Jesse Stone than it is about the two crimes around which the story centers.  Both crimes - we know who done it quickly without much buildup or mystery.  But  Jesse is front and center.  And he seems much more melancholy, conflicted, and distant from his fellow man and woman than in any novel up this point.  It will be interesting to see where Parker takes the character.<br />Overall, another comfortable - that's a good word for Parker novels - piece of storytelling.	2003-10-17
US	50909784	REHSNOT5UJUU9	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Wonderful Tapestry	This is an intricate and well written novel about the relationships between slaves, white slave owners, free black slave owners, free blacks, and low class whites in the antebellum south.  It is a very subtle yet easy to penetrate writing style that fabulously brings all the pieces together in one large tapestry.  It is a very impressive novel and I would think in the running for the next Pulitzer Prize.<br />One warning to potential readers, the author often abruptly switches back and forth to previous settings.  It works well if the reader is really absorbing and following the story.  Some might find this distracting.  It requires a close reading to stay with the tapestry that the author has constructed.	2003-10-11
US	50909784	R1JRF1FFZGH2NB	0933893221	165530959	Halas: An Autobiography	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Must Read for Pro Football Fans	This is kind of an update of the 1979 autobiography Halas by Halas.  This is undoubtedly a MUST READ for any professional football fan.  It is an absolutely fascinating look at the founding of professional football and its history up to 1986.  <br />We get to hear first hand what it is like to play against Jim Thorpe by somebody who was actually there!  We also get a first hand account of how the game was played, how the NFL was formed, and how it progressed.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-10-04
US	50909784	R34MPRK0PM7M69	0312876904	943424422	Hybrids (Neanderthal Parallax)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Satisfying Trilogy	HYBRIDS is somewhat of a disappointment as the concluding novel of Sawyer's Neanderthal Parallax trilogy.<br />HOMINIDS, the first novel in the trilogy, was a very well done novel about the accidental opening of a portal to an alternative universe where Neanderthal's became the dominant hominid.  It explores the Neanderthal society and the various differences between the two cultures, human and Neanderthal.  There is also very good character development in HOMINIDS, which really drives the rest of the trilogy.<br />HUMANS in some ways has the weakness of a second novel in a trilogy because there really is not a lot of plot development.  But it is an absolutely hilarious social satire on human society, with digs at the United States' culture from a Canadian point of view.  HUMANS is the novel I enjoyed the most of the three.<br />HYBRIDS is a good novel and conclusion to the trilogy but somewhat of a let down.  Sawyer presents some really terrifying situations for both Neanderthals and humans but the emotional punch just isn't there.  It's like watching a disaster with complete emotional detachment.   The build up and mystery needed to evoke the kind of emotions to drive the story is missing.<br />Nevertheless, this is a good trilogy and recommended.	2003-09-20
US	50909784	R2UHIRHPT6AOZI	0765305798	381579312	A Shortcut in Time	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Short Review	Time travel is always a fun subject for a novel and this short romp is quite entertaining.  It all starts when a rather ordinary man finds he's moved back in time 15 minutes.  From there, the plot thickens and I hate to spoil it with details.  The novel centers around a swirl of events around a few of the main characters moving through time - with no control over how far, or which direction they go.  The story is fast paced and at is a real page turner.  I could hardly put it down.  The main flaw is ending, which doesn't quite make total sense logically. <br />But I do admit this is a book a thought about long after reading it.	2003-09-06
US	50909784	RAH6YYTOHOQSX	0345460367	942080070	The Integral Trees and The Smoke Ring	Books	3	23	25	N	Y	Interesting World Building	First let me say that this edition I'm reviewing is a two for one.  You get both the Integral Trees and The Smoke Ring in one volume, which certainly makes it worth the price.<br />Secondly, The Smoke Ring was published four years after The Integral Trees.  But reading The Smoke Ring, immediately after the Integral Trees, makes it a much more enjoyable and stronger book.  I doubt I would have enjoyed it quite as much had I read it four years after reading The Integral Trees.<br />Both of these novels are concept novels in the hard science fiction genre., which is both a strength and a weakness.  Niven sets up the world he creates in The Integral Trees, and there is character development but it is a bit thin.  I found the novel hard to slog through at times and frankly had a hard time conceptualizing the environment Niven creates.  The Smoke Ring is a lot more fun on two accounts. First, Niven goes about exploring a lot more of the world he created.  And the characters a bit more developed. <br />Overall, both are worth reading.  If you get through The Integral Trees and really liked it, I think you'd love The Smoke Ring.  If you get through the Integral Trees and liked it, but just barely, The Smoke Ring is better.   If you really hated The Integral Trees and didn't get it at all, skip The Smoke Ring.	2003-08-30
US	50909784	RV3OUNQYW9DQU	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Must Read	First let me say this is undoubtedly the most interesting and enjoyable book I've read so far this year.  What this book ultimately accomplishes is serving up a piece of unique U.S. history, that most people know very little about, in a readable, even dramatic narrative.<br />The author does a tremendous job of taking the story of an ungainly underdog racehorse - Seabiscuit, his owner Charles Howard, the taciturn trainer Tom Smith, and the colorful jockey Red Pollard, and blending it into a dramatic story.<br />I knew nothing about horse racing prior to reading this book (other than being a casual watcher of the Triple Crown series on TV every year).  But you don't have to be a horse racing fan to enjoy this wild, fun ride.	2003-07-30
US	50909784	R142X36WGNME7O	1584450150	20971971	The Robert Heinlein Interview and Other Heinleiniana	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	Essential for Heinlein Fans	Obviously any Heinlein fanatic like myself should own this book.  The interview is very interesting and adds some insight to what Heinlein was really like.  The draw back is, in both the filler material and to some extent the interview, Schulman has a political axe to grind.  This detracted from the interview and other material in the book.	2003-07-20
US	50909784	R1AQBOWEL8TROJ	1400040442	437281256	Bangkok 8: A Royal Thai Detective Novel (1)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Wild Ride, Weak Ending	Bangkok 8 is indeed a well written, fast paced, page-turner of a mystery.  The characters are fascinating, none less so than our protagonist, Sonchai Jitpleecheep.  <br />The novel starts with the murder of a US Marine in the most bizarre of manners - drug crazed poisonous snakes.  Unfortunately, Sonchai and his partner were ordered to follow this Marine and were at the scene of his death where Sonchai's partner is bitten and killed by a snake.  Sonchai is determined to seek out the killer and revenge.<br />As a mystery Burdett has done a good job of unfolding the layers of the Sonchai's search for the truth behind events and the characters are truly fascinating.  So too is the locale and culture that is the backdrop of the novel.  Thailand's sex trade, drug dealing, psychotic powerful Westerners, and Buddhism are blended into the tapestry.<br />The end, however, is very weak and disappointing and really a downer after an otherwise very enjoyable story.	2003-06-26
US	50909784	R3D20Q80CZLZIA	0515135283	531181286	Without Fail (Jack Reacher, No. 6)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Finally, a Great Reacher Novel	I really enjoy Reacher novels for the character and action but the plots tend to be farcical and sometimes even ludicrous which spoils the fun.<br />Finally, here, we have a Reacher novel that has a nice, tight, believable plot.<br />Reacher is contacted by the head of the Secret Service's security detail for the Vice-President to conduct an audit of the VP's security because of an assassination threat and security breach.  (She also happens to be his dead brother's former lover).  Reacher, along a with former Marine comrade, Frances Neagley, take on the job.  And the ride begins, with a vengeance.<br />Probably the best of the Reacher series.	2003-05-19
US	50909784	R1NENJUZ4YBXDQ	0786709561	469915084	Sherlock Holmes and the Giant Rat of Sumatra	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Frankly I wonder why I even bother reading Sherlock Holmes p	Frankly I wonder why I even bother reading Sherlock Holmes pastiche's anymore.  They are usually so dreadful.<br />Well, this attempt is pretty dreadful too.  And dull.  Very dull.  And the plot is somewhat unbelievable.  Did I mention tedious and dull?	2003-05-19
US	50909784	REW1A52UCYRI4	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SUPER SPENSER NOVEL	This is going to be a quick short review.<br />This is one of the best Spenser novels so dont miss this one if youre a Spenser fan.<br />Paul Giacomin brings Spenser an unsolved murder case, 30 years ago.  Spenser starts to pull the string and the mystery slowly, but eventually, unravels.  We get all the usual twists and turns in the case, along with Spensers wit.  People try to kill Spenser, but you know thats not a good idea, especially with Hawk around.  We even get a cameo appearance by Jesse Stone, a character in another Parker series.<br />All in all a very satisfying addition to the series.	2003-05-19
US	50909784	R1F9YLXTQ942NH	034545782X	256491322	Evolution	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Impressive but Tedious	In EVOLUTION Baxter takes the really, really long view tracing (fictionally) the human species from the first tiny mole like creature scurrying around the feet of huge dinosaurs, to the very last tiny mole like creature, a human descendant, trying to survive on a dying Earth where most living things are extinct.<br />This is a difficult book to review because it is both very impressive but at the same time it can be very tedious.  The novel is made up of vignettes describing the life of human ancestors or descendants, from pre-sentience to sentience to post-sentience.  The book is tied together by snapshots of near future humanity at the beginning of the epoch where modern humans begin to de-evolve.<br />The best parts of the novel are where we see pre-humans developing intelligence and self-awareness and the societies that coalesce.  It is also very character driven which helps provide empathy in the otherwise merciless cycle of life.  There are some really clever off-shoot chapters as well.<br />Overall the book is well done, if a bit tedious at times.	2003-05-19
US	50909784	R1ABO6W2BSFM8Z	0375405836	265617910	Jesse James: Last Rebel of the Civil War	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Biography but flawed Theory	The author posits that Jesse James' career as an outlaw was really political terrorism directed at the policies of the Radical Republicans after the Civil War.  He uses as evidence Jesse James writings to newspapers and the use of James as a political tool by others, such as John Edwards, a Democratic newspaperman.  And he claims that James' targets were politically motivated as well.  I'm not buying it.<br />Jesse James, was plainly and simply, a career criminal.  Stiles' theory of violentization does seem correct, where at the age of 16, James became a bushwacker and participated in some of the most violent and dirty fighting of the Civil War.  After the war, all James really knew was violence and turned to crime and banditry because that's what he knew best.  James' writings to newspapers and the basking in the adulation of politically motivated men like Edwards was simply a stroking of his ego.<br />A perfect example of Jesse James' character can be seen when he tried to live a normal life.  His brother Frank, who was also a bushwhacker and criminal as well, only wanted to settle down and have a normal family life.  And was successful and happy doing so.  Jesse got restless and just couldn't do it - going back to his life of banditry and crime.<br />Again, I think this is an excellent, well-researched biography, but it makes Jesse out to be something he wasn't.	2003-05-19
US	50909784	R15DCUYYWDNKZJ	0765301075	95465964	The Forge of God	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Bye Bye Earth	Bear is great at coming up with grand ideas to write hard SF around but sometimes the execution lacks a little to be desired.  Don't get me wrong, THE FORGE OF GOD is undoubtedly an above average novel, and maybe even great by the low standards I've come to expect from today's authors of any genre.  But there are some quibbles.<br />As most readers of this commentary probably already know, the plot revolves around the ultimate destruction of the Earth.  The climax, in fact, is a small group of surviving humans watching the plant disintegrate with its billions of human lives.  The quibble is the characterization and descriptions of the impending doom, for whatever reason, just don't convey a sense of panic and loss.  The main characters are too cerebral and leaden.  There just isn't any emotion evoked by the writing style.<br />And the novel seems too long.  I can't point to specific things I think should be cut, other than to say that the characterization was rather weak and some plot elements drag on a little too long (especially the little group awaiting the end of the world in Yellowstone National Park).  This would have probably made a better novella or short story.	2003-02-05
US	50909784	R24DHSP75LB2J4	0446364037	643066842	Anvil of Stars	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Interesting Sequel to The Forge of God	ANVIL OF STARS is the sequel to THE FORGE OF GOD but is a much different book.  A group of human children volunteer (are coerced?) to board a Ship of the Law created by the alien race that saved humanity.  Their mission is to seek out and destroy those beings that created the devices that destroyed the Earth.<br />To make this commentary short - this is a fairly entertaining novel and wrestles with dilemmas similar to those found in Ender's Game (Orson Scott Card).  A group of human children are taken away from their parents and environment in which they have grown-up, with no possibility of return.  As result Bear is able to explore interesting ways human beings develop and interact in an enclosed environment with minimal social restraints - as well as grapple with life or death issues.  From leadership, sexuality, religion, war, xenocide, xenophobia, ethnicity - it's all here. And we get even get to closely encounter another rather interesting race of alien - which is actually the most inventive and interesting part of the novel. The drawback to this book is it is too long.  It could have been much tighter and shorter. <br />Certainly an above average novel, if at a times a bit tedious.	2003-02-05
US	50909784	R20P0HIQQASCM8	0812564839	861735579	The Lost World (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lost Classic	It's great to see THE LOST WORLD in print in a nice paperback edition.  While maybe not in the same pantheon of classics as H.G. Wells' THE WAR OF THE WORLDS or THE TIME MACHINE, or Jules Verne's JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH or 20,000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA, this novel certainly is a classic in its own right.<br />Most are probably familiar with the basic plot - an intrepid, self deprecating reporter along with vain academics and a pompous sportsman set off to find a land where pre-historic beasts still roam the earth.  The story takes a little while to get exciting as we are introduced to the cast of characters and to Professor Challenger's unbelievable claim that the he had discovered a land where beasts long since thought extinct still existed.  But these precursors to the actual expedition are important as we learn the motives and personalities of the characters.  And the action moves along quite swiftly as the four explorers find themselves in a series of (mis)adventures in the lost world.	2003-02-05
US	50909784	R1GFSZEWZ068QB	0071408770	17436075	Won for All : The Inside Story of the New England Patriots' Improbable Run to The Super Bowl	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Reliving the 2001 PATS	Pepper Johnson's book about the New England Patriots' improbable run to championship glory in the 2001 NFL football season is a bit of a disappointment.  Nevertheless, any Patriots fan will find the book interesting and essential to understanding the inside story of the 2001 New England Patriots.     This book does a good job of walking the reader through the entire 2001 season.  Johnson divides the season into four game segments and provides great detail on the actual games, as well as the development and improvement of the team over the season.  He provides even greater depth on the playoffs and Super Bowl, and the team's preparation leading up to the big games.    Probably the key theme to the book is it clearly demonstrates the importance of teamwork and the performance of less high profile players on the success of the entire team.  Johnson stresses, time and again, the importance of each man on the team doing their job and doing it well for this particular squad to make the playoffs and win the Super Bowl.    Johnson also does a nice job of giving the reader a glimpse into the day-to-day life of NFL coaches, from the hours they work, the tape they study, their interaction with the players, and how the entire coaching staff is important to any team's overall success on the field.  The best thing about the book is allows Patriots fans to once again relive the 2001 season.    Unfortunately, the book has many drawbacks as well.  First, there is very little attention paid to the most intriguing element of the 2001 season - the ultimate replacement of Drew Bledsoe with Tom Brady.  Johnson gives very, very short shrift to this key controversy that could have torn the team apart.  Maybe being a coach on the team he was afraid of going into the kind of detail that appears in journalists' accounts of the relationship between Bledsoe, Brady, Belichick, and the team.    Second, there is a little too much \\"I, I, I\\" in the book.  I didn't want to hear about Johnson's coaching philosophy or incidences that occurred specifically to him.  I wanted to hear about the team.  There's a bit too much of Johnson in the book.    Third, the book does a poor job of building drama and excitement.  It has a very bland and unadorned writing style.  While the book is certainly very readable, it could have been better.    Finally, while not necessarily a shortcoming, there are very few X's and O's talking about plays, play calling, or in-depth game plan and football philosophies.  It would have been nice to see more of this in the book as well.    Nevertheless, any Patriots fan, like me, will definitely enjoy the book and get a lot out of reading a coach's account of the 2001 New England Patriots.	2003-01-04
US	50909784	R2AU9EF267FIE	0802117236	318954194	The Lion's Grave: Dispatches from Afghanistan	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent Journalism	I had already read most of the articles in this book prior to buying it and frankly I found this collection to be quite interesting.  I've read few journalistic accounts of the events in Afghanistan post-September 11, 2002 that seem to capture the ugly warfare, back stabbing, and confusing alliances quite as well as this one.  If you haven't read any of these articles in The New Yorker, it's very much worth reading.	2003-01-04
US	50909784	R1K48ZLYRE02IM	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Parker's best Sunny Randall Novel	Despite plot devices that are bit too unbelievable, this is the first Sunny Randall novel I've actually liked.  This is the first novel where Parker explores Sunny's character in more than simply superficial terms, giving her a life of her own beyond simply being \\"Spenser in drag.\\"  <br />Here we find Sunny hired by a popular novelist as a bodyguard because her ex-husband is stalking her.  The ex-husband also happens to be a manipulative psychiatrist preying on women.  In getting to the bottom of the \\"case\\" Sunny begins to explore her own feelings, which begin to reveal a lot about her personality -as do her actions throughout.<br />Parker fans should enjoy this one...	2002-10-18
US	50909784	R31BY8LNVHJBH7	1582615942	730805512	Sweet Redemption	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Very well done	This is the story behind the 2002 University of Maryland basketball championship season and also serves as mini-biographies of Gary Williams, Juan Dixon, and the University of Maryland basketball program.  Very well written and organized, it will be interesting for sports fans, even those not U. of Maryland fans.  The many tragedies suffered by the institution and individuals associated with the program are heart rending and compelling.<br />The Maryland championship season is a real life triumph over tragedy story.  Regardless of where one's rooting interests lie, I dare say nobody can read Juan Dixon's story and not marvel at his perseverance and leadership.  A true, shining example of heart and courage.	2002-10-17
US	50909784	R3G56PG4M9T9WW	0609809636	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting and Entertaining	This is a collection of articles that appeared in Vanity Fair on some of the biggest crime stories of the rich and famous.  This is not a series of \\"whodonits..\\"  Instead Dunne weaves the tales of the people and personalities involved in each case.  From the Menendez Brothers, to OJ, Claus Van Bulow, and Michael Skakel, we see the people behind the facades.  Very, very entertaining pieces.<br />Much of the book centers on the OJ Simpson trial.  I am sick of the OJ trail, but I found these articles interesting.  Especially worth reading is how Dunne describes the culture of Los Angeles and its elite through these revealing articles.  So even if you're tired of OJ, you'll likely find these pieces relevant and interesting.	2002-09-14
US	50909784	R17STN2PEHVVJR	0805069054	9917067	James Madison (The American Presidents Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Well Done Monograph in Madison Presidency	This is a neat little monograph on the presidency of James Madison.  It is not meant to be a biography, and isn't.  Nor is it meant to be a detailed account of Madison's presidency.  It' intent is simple; why was James Madison's presidency not successful, especially when compared to his legislative career?<br />Without giving too much away, much of the answer in the simple fact that Madison's strengths were more suited to the legislative arena - the backroom negotiations and intellectual debates - than being out front as the leader of the of a bureaucracy.  There's much more to the story, but I'll leave it to Wills to tell.	2002-09-14
US	50909784	RDWHKMBB69H84	0195058143	678161387	The Road to Disunion: Secessionists at Bay, 1776-1854: Volume I	Books	4	20	28	N	N	Good Social History of Pre-Civil War South	Despite dreadful prose and a clear anti-southern bias that at times borders on hyperbole, Freehling does provide a well researched social and political history of the pre-Civil War south.<br />Freehling concentrates much of his effort on the social history of the south and shows how the United States was fractured not just north and south, but within the south as well.  The social and political divisions between the upper and lower south and then further divisions within these sections are well detailed and illuminating.  Freehling does a good job on the political front as well, but is stronger on the social aspects.<br />Several things are clear after reading Freehling and other pre-Civil War accounts of US politics and society. First, slavery was the root cause of the Civil War.  I'm amazed historians continue to cling to the supposed notion that southerners were fighting over states rights.  States rights was the political ideology that cloaked their tenacious fight to save slavery.  And while there is no doubt they were states rightists, there was no issues that they were truly willing to go to war for (including tariffs where the political rhetoric gets pretty hot.)<br />Secondly, Southern society was frighteningly dysfunctional.  Even had there been no civil war Southern society would have eventually withered away - but exactly how and to what consequence is unclear.  It's unlikely such a schizophrenic society could last in perpetuity without imploding - slowly but surely.<br />Fascinating reading.  Educational.  But you'll have to slog through some pretty tepid prose and stick with it.	2002-09-09
US	50909784	R19EUOHF9ECVKJ	0312104863	83245352	The Ice Opinion: Ice T	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Unique, interesting.	From gangs, to drugs, sex, rap, religion, politics, women, racism, freedom of speech - Ice-T has an opinion just like the rest of us.  Ice has an interesting and somewhat unique perspective on all these topics, and life in general.  It was very enjoyable and though provoking to read.  And if you don't agree with everything in the book, that's okay, how gives a ?	2002-09-09
US	50909784	R2ESBGG02LT0RJ	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Letdown	SHADOW PUPPETS isn't exactly disappointing, but it certainly does not pack the emotional impact of Card's previous efforts.  Bean and Petra are the central characters in this installment but the \\"shadow\\" of Achilles is never far behind.  We see the denouement of the conflict between Bean and Achilles started in Ender's Shadow, but there's a certain emotional detachment about the whole process.  Card seems on auto pilot here.  This is clearly a bridge novel that will eventually bring us to the full realization of Peter's hegemony<BR> <BR>And this is definitely not a book to be read if you have not read the previous novels.  One would be hopelessly out of the loop to make sense of it all without prior knowledge gained in the previous works.	2002-09-02
US	50909784	R3DLOO1X2D9EFI	0761126430	17736943	The Official NFL 2002 Record & Fact Book (OFFICIAL NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE RECORD AND FACT BOOK)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Resource for NFL Fans	This is a book that avid fans of professional football should purchase every three or four years or so.  It is an awesome resource for statistics and facts of professional football.  There is so much information here it is hard to list it all but here some highlights.<br />First, it is a compendium of every NFL record you care to imagine.  And, has details of each Super Bowl and every Super Bowl record one could ever conceive of.  And playoff records too.<br />It has a complete breakdown of EVERY game from the previous year.<br />There is a complete mini-history of every NFL team plus, most interesting and nostalgic, the career, single season, and single game records in many categories fans will be interested in (rushing, passing, receiving, and a few others).<br />There is additional information such as scheduling formulas, a break down of the rules, an explanation of the passer rating system, and this year's schedule.<br />There's more too....<br />And it is well organized and easy to find what you need.  You want to resolve a dispute with some friend about some NFL historical fact or record?  It'll be easy with this volume.<br />I spent hours with this book this week getting ready to enjoy the season.	2002-09-02
US	50909784	RQ5MYWQQQB5MM	0553285653	26251333	Grass	Books	5	63	64	N	N	Excellent	I'm not a big Tepper fan but I read Grass anyway and I'm glad I did.  The plot is rather intricate but a brief synopsis:  Humans are scattered over several planets, one being Grass which is a backwater planet with an odd collection of so called \\"elites\\" living in a cultural milieu copied from English manors. The \\"commoners\\" are gathered in a large town and make a living mostly through trade with other planets.  But rather bizarre things are happening in the universe.  The catholic church as undergone a schism and the dominant branch is a rather bizarre organization called \\"sanctity.\\"  Meanwhile, a deadly plague threatens to wipe out humanity.  But the plague has not touched Grass, so enter Lady Marjorie Westriding and her family, sent by the hierarch of the church to find a cure for the plague, believed to exist on Grass.    But on Grass they also find bizarre goings on, mainly the strange aliens that seem to have some kind of hold over the populace.<br />Tepper has done an excellent job here of weaving an intricate plot together.  There are numerous subtext to novels from relationships between men and women, alien contact, religious philosophy, and ethical decisions on how to react in the face of violence and potential genocide of the human race.  I was pleasantly surprised by the quality and depth of the novel.  And unlike The Gate to Women's Country, the political and moral lessons are obvious but the reader is not bludgeoned over the head with them.  This is one of the best science fiction novels I've read in a while.	2002-06-30
US	50909784	R1QWXVMT2KVLUS	0765340739	555475897	Cosmonaut Keep (Engines of Light)	Books	2	13	19	N	N	Very disjointed	MacLeod has a good story to tell in Cosmonaut Keep, unfortunately his writing style lacks a lot to be desired.  This novel is full of speculative ideas from politics, intrigue, physics, and the nature of the universe, wrapped into what could have been a good story about real people.  The writing is disjointed, almost hackneyed.  Most of the novel is parallel threads, one set on 21st century earth, and the other a colonized planet at some point in the future.  The back and forth between threads is not handled with particular aplomb, so it takes a while to get into the story and feel comfortable going and back and forth.  And while the two threads come together at the end, the denouement is less than satisfying.<br />Overall the general concept of the story is intriguing.  There is a lot to be desired in the execution.	2002-06-16
US	50909784	R3HIZND50ZWVSZ	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Worthy of the Pulitzer	Empire Falls is an excellent novel and Pulitzer Prize winner.  Centered in a declining mill town in Maine, the story centers around Miles Roby, a man, like so many people, who through circumstances and a certain degree of inertia, has never fulfilled his potential in life.  Mostly from Miles' point-of-view we see the story of the town and its denizens, which is rather familiar and somewhat melancholy.  <br />The writing is brilliant.  Russo has a way of writing very humorous passages about rather depressing people.  His characterization is excellent and he brings to life both the history of town, the people, and his main protagonist.	2002-06-16
US	50909784	R1TNHRAO9RV23T	0515133310	32851163	Echo Burning (Jack Reacher, No. 5)	Books	1	28	33	N	N	Yuck.	Lee Child started out with some pretty fine novels in his series featuring the ex-military cop, now drifter Jack Reacher.  Reacher seems to have a penchant for landing in some rather outlandish and bizarre situations.  Unfortunately, Child lost his touch in this one.  ECHO BURNING is a slow, drawn out, and rather boring novel.  While RUNNING BLIND, his last novel, was a terribly unbelievable and contrived plot - at least there was plenty of swift, moving action that kept the pages turning.  Here we get long, unnecessarily detailed descriptions of Reacher sleeping, Reacher driving in a car, the melodrama of a six year old trying to figure out how to open a locked door.  This reader kept saying \\"let's get on with it already!!\\"<br />This was a rather slow and disappointing story.	2002-06-15
US	50909784	R1VV20MJ9YW8M	014100200X	751870359	The Royal Family: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Task Worth Undertaking	Sometimes I don't know whether to curse or praise Vollman.  THE ROYAL FAMILY is a chore - and in the end - one worth accomplishing. <br />In this novel Vollman takes us to the underworld of pimps, prostitutes, private eyes, and wealthy law firms.  All the characters are losers; none of the characters are winners. Henry, the PI who falls in love with his rich brother's wife Irene - turns to the \\"Queen of Hookers\\" and her horde for comfort and family once the brother's wife offs herself and the brother disowns him.  Henry, who much of the novel revolves around, is the biggest loser of all, turns to a \\"substitute Irene,\\" who is a really a heroine addicted hooker.  There are lots of character sketches, and a few asides, but overall interesting, as always.	2002-05-14
US	50909784	RRNJMMPAHV5EM	0441007244	219406259	Lady Crymsyn (Vampire Files, No. 9)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another Fine Effort by Elrod	It's been interesting watching P.N. Elrod grow as a writer.  The first six books of her Vampire Files were decent, but quickly fell into formulaic and uninspired writing.  With A DARK SLEEP, and now LADY CRYMSYN, she has produced two first rate mysteries, with familiar, comfortable, and interesting characters that follower's of the series will relish.<br />In LADY CRYMSYN we find Jack Fleming - vampire, nightclub owner thrown into a mystery when he finds the remains of a woman who has been walled up in the basement of his nightclub.  There are plenty of twists, turns, and surprises along the way.  Thumbs up.	2002-05-14
US	50909784	R27ENUI6G9J8QT	0312868650	672258901	Golden Fleece	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not the best Sawyer, but pretty good	This is one of Sawyer's earlier novels.  While it is not quite up to the standards of later works, (like THE TERMINAL EXPERIMENT), it has a great premise and is superior to most science fiction on the shelves today.<br />Golden Fleece is a murder mystery - but the mystery is not who, we know that right away, it's the \\"why?\\" and \\"will they be caught?\\"  The untangling of these two questions - aboard a generational ship, making it a locked room mystery for the passengers - has the backdrop of the psychology of a generational ship and how man deals with Artificial Intelligence.	2002-05-14
US	50909784	R340SBEEV3LUFJ	1555534074	76262389	The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden, and the Future of Terrorism (Vol 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Scary	This is another one of those books that were written prior to September 11, 2001, but took on much greater significance afterward.<br />This book is basically two parts.  The first part is a hybrid: part biography of Ramzi Yusef and part detailing the investigation of the World Trade Center bombing and his eventual capture in Pakistan.  This is a fascinating look at the harrowing world of terrorism and the sick mind of one such as Yusef.  There are several themes: (1) these criminals may be sick bastards, but they are smart, dangerous, and determined; (2) they have a worldwide loose network, which makes their reach global; (3) they are striving to gain access to weapons of mass destruction and are unlikely to hesitate using them once they are successful; (4) they are extremely difficult to catch and are quite elusive.  Having read the exploits of Yusef, it is very surprising he hasn't been even more successful at wreaking havoc.  Some parts are a bit comical showing that these monsters are human (for example he practically blew himself up an apartment in the Philippines).  The only drawback to this part of the book is that Reeves plays amateur psychoanalyst, ascribing motive to Yusef which is not backed up by any substantial evidence.<br />The second part of the book is a short biography of Osama bin Laden.  For anyone following the events after September 11, even casually, there is nothing new here about bin Laden that hasn't already been said.  However, it is an excellent sketch of his life and his motives - and certainly would have all been new information to me prior to 9-11.  <br />Overall, a very well done and worthwhile effort.	2002-05-14
US	50909784	RJCWBRDPSIOW2	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This is the Book to Read	Knowing there would be a spate of books about terrorism, Afghanistan, the Taliban, and Osama Bin Laden after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, DC on September 11th I wanted to choose a serious account written recently but before the attacks to avoid the hyperbole and \\"I told you so\\" one will inevitably encounter in these works.  <br />In Rashid's TALIBAN I chose well.  This is a well written, well documented, and thorough account of  post-Soviet era politics and culture in Central Asia, detailing the Taliban's origins, how they came to and sustained their power, and the competing state and economic interests and disastrous (as well as myopic) policies that perpetuated and fueled the civil war in Afghanistan.  It also gives the reader a better understanding of how Osama Bin Laden and his terrorist network came about and why the Taliban support him.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-11-05
US	50909784	RH4NYDXQWWBBG	0062701746	307435785	Total Football II: The Official Encyclopedia of the National Football League	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Must Have for Football Fans	This book is a must have for all serious football fans.  It is the most complete one volume source of information about professional football. <br />My favorite sections include:<br />History of the game:  The introductory essays on the history of pro football and the complete histories of each team is fascinating and an important context for many of the conventions and the culture of today's game.<br />History of players:  Not only is there a complete roster of every player who has ever played in the National Football<BR>League and it's antecedents, there are more detailed biographies of the \\"500 greatest players\\" as determined by the panel of writers responsible for this encyclopedia.<br />Complete game summaries of and statistics for all the playoffs, Super Bowls, and most important games in league history:  I personally found this the most nostalgic reading, as I could remember where I was and who I was watching the playoffs and Super Bowls with.  <br />And much, much more -- some more mundane (essays on player equipment) and some more interesting (history of defunct leagues like the United States Football League (USFL)).<br />I do have two complaints about the encyclopedia -- one minor and one a glaring omission.  <br />My minor complaint is that they need a better copy editor.  I found many typos, especially the detailed information about playoffs and Super Bowls.<br />My major complaint is that is has a woefully incomplete section detailing the individual records (most rushing yards in a game, etc.) which is a terrible omission.  I can find a more complete listing of individual and team records in a sports almanac.  A book purporting to be TOTAL FOOTBALL shouldn't need a companion book to round it out and have all the facts one might want at hand.  I strongly recommend they improve on this in the next volume.	2001-10-28
US	50909784	R2H6AVOK2ZDA40	0816516480	743161287	John Ringo: The Gunfighter Who Never Was	Books	3	35	36	N	N	John Ringo: The Biography That Never Was	This book should have been called John Ringo: The Biography that Never Was.<br />Burrows spends most of time telling the reader why everybody else's biography of Ringo is wrong, and spends very little time telling us who John Ringo really was.  In some ways I empathize with the author because there really is no substantial or reliable primary sources for a biography of Ringo.  But frankly, having read a lot of history of the Old West, nothing in this book is new or revealing.  While the exegesis and (extreme) criticism of Ringo's biographers was somewhat interesting -- it really becomes somewhat tedious.  <br />Burrows could boiled this entire work down to a nice article in an academic historical journal -- and quite frankly probably should have.	2001-10-28
US	50909784	R2ZMZB0BVGTJJQ	0399147799	501345308	Death In Paradise (Jesse Stone Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Great Character--Rehashed Plot	Parker always writes what amounts to light entertaining works but maybe I've simply read too much of him.  Stone is a great character and is a different from Spenser and Sunny Randall -- characters in his other novels.  And Death in Paradise gives us more insight into what makes Stone tick -- which is the strength of the book.  But the plot is a rehash of a rehash of plenty of Parker's other novels.  Have I read this plot line before?? Yes, more than once.  <br />Overall entertaining, so thumbs up.  But I'm ready for a new plot, a new twist, along with the new character.	2001-10-28
US	50909784	R29OBXRYVLK326	096190884X	457341973	Soiled Doves: Prostitution in the Early West (Women of the West)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Could Have Been More	A rather interesting series of stories about notorious prostitutes and madams of the old west.  This a worthy book<BR>because its provides, under one cover, some quick glimpses of  the more famous of the \\"soiled doves.\\"  It is not, however, a particularly well documented work, relying mainly it seems on secondary sources.  Nor does it provide any philosophical or deeper meaning to the lives of the women whose stories it tells.  (And sometimes the author's writing tends toward the sensational and hyperbole.)  Nevertheless, it is interesting an book.	2001-10-28
US	50909784	R33FQPJDT166L0	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Romatic Novel	I'm not one to go for love stories but the THE NOTEBOOK is one of the best little novels I've read in quite some time.  It's a book about patience, perseverance, depth of character, and love.  The book is evocative and really tugs at the  hartstrings, from the early unrequited love of Noah Calhoun, to love found, to his ultimate acts of devotion in his old age.  Highly recommended.	2001-10-09
US	50909784	R39XX8J9PJYMPJ	0446606812	372605776	Message in a Bottle	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Unique Romance	Message in a Bottle is a unique romantic story and a fine novel.  It all starts when Theresa Osborne is vacationing in Cape Code and comes across - you guessed it - a message in a bottle.  The message is from a man \\"Garrett\\" to his wife about his intensely felt love.  Osborne, a middle aged divorcee with little romance in her own life is intrigued enough to start searching out others who may have found similar messages.  As she collects them, she herself falls in love with Garrett (although she has yet to admit it to herself) and decides to search for him.  She finds him in a small, North Carolina town and the romance emerges.  But of course - they are such different people that problems crop up.  He is a widower feeling guilty and not over his wife and a small town kind of guy.  She's a big city gal with a career.  But the relationship develops with ups and downs nonetheless.<br />Sparks is excellent in fully developing the personalities of his characters and building empathy in the reader.  He has done a fine job here.  If you didn't like the movie - read the book anyway.  It's much better.	2001-09-27
US	50909784	RCYDNP20ZR7DU	0812531353	47102537	The Boat of A Million Years	Books	2	28	37	N	N	Slightly Disappointing	This is another one of those books that is hard to review because there are a lot of good parts, and a lot parts that are not so good, so you're left with a mixed bag.    The Boat of a Million Years follows the lives of several immortals from 310 B.C. through the future.  It chronicles the trials they find themselves in trying to hide or mask their immortality from their communities and even their families, and the life of wandering, and at times despair, it leads them to.  In the end they come together to voyage into space to make their future -- which makes up the last chapter of the book.    Most of the book is written as short chapters chronicling events in the lives of the immortals -- some who don't even survive to modern times.  The most interesting and well written of the characters is Hanno, who we find in the opening scenes of the book, and several chapters throughout in different eras and with a different name.  There are other interesting characters as well.  But the main problem of the novel is it's overwritten and long winded.  It takes a lot of patience to wade through the slag to get to the good parts. And the prose gets a bit stodgy at times.  The last chapter is almost novella length and is probably the strongest part of the book -- but it also has a bit of a dull edge.  The characters just don't seem that amazing or wise given their longevity.    If all the best parts of the novel were pulled together and the chaff culled out -- this could have been an excellent piece of work.  It really does have some interesting things to say about the prospect and consequences of immortality.  But, as is, this is a slightly disappointing work.	2001-09-08
US	50909784	R5ASGCAMYOYW0	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Worthy Addition to the Vampire Chronicles	Merrick, the latest edition to Anne Rice's vampire chronicles is really two stories in one novel.  Louis, the most contemplative and withdrawn of the vampiric clan, guiltily longs for the long dead child vampire, Claudia, he created in Interview with a Vampire.  His guilt over her creation and untimely death nags his conscious.  He asks David, a more recent vampire created by Lestat and former member of a secret order that investigates the paranormal, vampires, witches, etc. to seek out someone who can call up her spirit to set his mind at ease.   <br />This leads to the story of Merrick Mayfair, a witch, whom David had taken under his wing when she was 14 afterlosing her grandmother.  Merrick comes from a line of \\"witches\\" and her story, full of ghosts and spirits, is an interesting one.  And there's some unique and interesting twists to the tale as we are lead up to her conjuring up of Claudia's ghost and her own designs on David and the world of the vampires.<br />The second story in the novel is the apex of Louis' melancholic existence as a vampire -- which has been an on-going if not always quite so stark drama throughout the Vampire Chronicles.  Louis' contemplation of his existence and where itleads him is probably the most interesting part of the story.<br />On the whole this is an entertaining novel.  For fans of the Vampire Chronicles we learn more about David Talbot and Rice seems to have found a voice through this character.  There are times when the plot is a bit slow and plodding, but once Claudia's ghost is conjured up the plot picks up quickly through the end.  Rice seems especially good here at subtly showing us her characters' personalities.<br />Overall, a worthy addition to the Vampire Chronicles.	2001-09-03
US	50909784	R21MOBNHRG0XCI	0812513916	37304381	Requiem: Collected Works and Tributes to the Grand Master	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another Must Have For Heinlein Fans	This book is a collection of tidbits of information about Robert Heinlein, including some very compelling stories about Heinlein from science fiction writers like Larry Niven. It also includes some never before published works, which is a big bonus for Heinlein fans. While some of the material is a bit uneven, I learned a great deal about Heinlein and his works from this book. Another must have for Robert Heinlein fans.	2001-08-29
US	50909784	R2JD1MBSKIFSMY	0821407775	556358432	Notes Of Debates In The Federal Convention Of 1787	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Essential to Understanding the Consitition	This is not only fascinating reading, but is a critical primary source for understanding our Constitution.  This is Madison's first hand account of the secret proceedings of the Constitutional Convention.  You'll see how the debate unfolds and understand more fully the difficulty of creating a governing document for our nation.  <br />Most importantly you'll see the difficulty in divining the original intent of our founders.  There were many intents and many \\"founders\\" of this important document.  It is not surprising that many involved in the creation of our constitution could afterwards disagree on the substance of what different articles \\"meant.\\"  That is why the argument over original intent can never be resolved, and why, for better or worse, the Constitution remains open to interpretation.	2001-08-19
US	50909784	R2UF1UXO41XICK	0674006631	553999206	Inheriting the Revolution: The First Generation of Americans	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thought Provoking	Appleby provides an excellent survey of the culture of the \\"first\\" generation of Americans and what influenced and shaped their interpretation of the American revolution that laid the groundwork for our governance and society today.  Appleby notes that the first generation of Americans had to grapple with a yet unformed political and economic structure and much of their thinking and actions completed the formation of our national institutions and culture.<br />Many themes run through the work.  First, Jefferson's election in 1801 was critical because it marked the beginning of the expansion of democracy and participatory politics to the masses and reaffirmed the predominance of state and local control over politics.  Literacy and the wide consumption of newspapers and books, social and physical mobility,inventiveness, the embryo of industrialization, the proliferation of religious denominations, the blurring of social distinctions, and the formation of political and social organizations are just a few of the many themes she touches upon.  These cultural tides, and others, broadened and made more inclusive participation in the structuring of economic, political, and religious decision making in both formal institutions and informal channels of influence.<br />Appleby also illuminates the growing isolation of the South from the rest of the country because of its rationalization of slavery -- an institution that was anathema to the ideals (if not the reality) of the nation's founding and ran counter to the democratization and upward mobility experienced by the rest of the nation.  In hindsight we see the cultural beginnings of the schism between North and South -- here in cultural terms -- that explains how our nation could bring itself to such violent conflict in the Civil War years later.<br />These are just a few of the themes in Appleby's work -- and does it little justice.  It would take me 20 pages of run-on sentences to describe many of the thought provoking elements in this book.  So in short, I highly recommend it for those interested in the nation's founding.	2001-08-19
US	50909784	R1XBLA2TAQOH0I	0300065191	325072758	American Politics in the Early Republic: The New Nation in Crisis	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Solid Analysis of Early American Politics	Sharp offers several themes and interpretations in his analysis of politics in the decade following the adoption of the constitution.  Sharp rightly argues that the antagonisms and political schisms of the years 1789-1801 were a crucial test of the ability of our new nation to survive sharply different conceptions of where political sovereignty would ultimately lie in the new nation.  Sharp details the creation of \\"proto-parties\\" -- the Federalist led by Hamilton who favored a strong central government and executive power versus the Jefferson led Republicans who favored more state and local control of politics and a stricter construction of the federal government's powers under the constitution.  The schism was also clearly and primarily sectional -- North versus South.  While both of these comments are an oversimplification they were two of the obvious divisive issues splitting the two camps.  Sharp maintains that the election of Jefferson in 1801 and the peaceful transfer of power from one faction to another -- the first such transfer of power in our nation's history (Adam's being generally seen as a proponent of the Federalists'position) -- was one of the two most crucial tests for the viability of the constitution (the other being the Civil War).  <br />Sharp details the political machinations of both camps through Jefferson's election and clearly shows that civil war and disunion were indeed viable outcomes and the continuation of the union in limbo.<br />Overall this is a solid effort to dispel the myth that political parties, as we know them today, were not created or even perpetuated by the \\"proto-parties\\" that formed during this period, although they can be seen as precursors of modern political parties.  He also dispels the myth that the perpetuation of the nation was inevitable.  Instead that the United States survived this period intact was incredible.<br />My main quibble is that sometimes Sharp sometimes leaves out some key points.  Nor do I think enough attention is paid to Adam's ability to straddle the two factions and steer a more neutral course -- for example advocating a strong national defense (building a navy), pursing peace with France, and thwarting Hamilton's attempt to maintain a standing army in peacetime.  Had he been unsuccessful in doing so the story of our Republic may have been quite different.	2001-08-08
US	50909784	RV5OQ0KOPEXX1	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	1	2	N	N	John Adams Gets his Due	McCullough has done a great service in reminding us what an important influence John Adams had in the founding of our nation.  He is too often a forgotten figure in our nation's pantheon of founders.  Adams' importance in securing our independence and protecting and perpetuating the federal government under the Constitution is arguably greater than Thomas Jefferson's.<br />Among Adams' accomplishments:<br />(1) He was an important influence in the committee that revised Jefferson's draft of the Declaration of Independence and did the most to argue for and push for its passage by the Continental Congress.<br />(2) He was the one who made the original motion to make George Washington the general of the army commissioned by the Continental Congress to prosecute the Revolutionary War.<br />(3) He played a key administrative and political role during the Revolutionary War.<br />(4) He wrote the constitution of the State of Massachusetts, the oldest functioning constitution in the world, and a key model upon with the Constitution of the United States is based.<br />(5) He was instrumental in securing the aid of France and foreign loans during the Revolutionary War.<br />(6) He was a key negotiator of peace with Britain ending the Revolutionary War.<br />(7) He had the unenviable task of following George Washington as 2nd President of the United States and - despite a few serious mistakes - was able to keep the union intact and keep the U.S. out of war with France or Britain.<br />The biography is well written and illuminating - really absolutely fascinating.  It brings to life Johns Adams and his varied activities - from his loving relationship with his wife Abigail and her own important role in events to his love-hate relationship with Thomas Jefferson that spanned most of their lives.<br />The only quibble I have with the book is that it sometimes does not give enough detail about some key issues that Adams had to grapple with.  For example, too little attention is given the Alien and Sedition acts - one of the most odious pieces of legislation signed by Adams that thwarted freedom of the press.  But then again - he would have needed multiple volumes to cover everything.  (As a side note - you do end up empathizing for the act given that the newspapers of the time were vicious in their personal attacks and printed stories that would be libelous by today's standards.)  <br />Suffice it to say - this really is a must read.	2001-08-03
US	50909784	RW3U8QRG12525	0967987407	735384713	Robert A. Heinlein : A Reader's Companion	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Essential Must Have For Heinlein Fans	This is an absolute must have for any serious Heinlein fan.  Gifford obviously put a lot of work and thought into crafting the Heinlein Opus list, which provides a complete compendium of everything Heinlein has written.  There are also tidbits about Heinlein work not published as well.  <br />Gifford's precise, clear, and unbiased commentary on nearly all of Heinlein's works is interesting and concise.  It does a great service by providing a clear chronological progression of Heinlein as a writer, which gives the reader a fuller understanding of the works produced at a given time in Heinlein's career.  I often felt nostalgic when going through commentary because I could remember the work and the period of my life that I read it, and the enjoyment that it brought me at the time.  <br />This book is indeed a companion for Heinlein fans.	2001-08-01
US	50909784	R23GRSZ7EHAGNU	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	3	35	40	N	N	Solid Historical Insights on the Founding Brothers	Written as a series of vignettes with an underlying theme, Founding Brothers offers insight into the tenuous nature of the new nation springing from the American Revolution.  While there is no real groundbreaking research here, what this work does offer are some insights into the men who were essential in creating the United States, and offers us a reminder that the success of the new nation was far from inevitable.  In fact, the nation survived in spite of some very key differences between the founders as to where soveigntry should ultimately lie in the new governing regime.  And,it should be added, by assiduously ignoring one of the overriding contradictions of the American Revolution and it's tenets about freedom and equality -- slavery!     The book is a bit uneven but it is also clear in its main points.  There was a lot of philosophical and political conflict between the founding generation: north versus south, agrarian versus mercantile interests, states' rights versus the powers and role of the new federal government, and the embarrassing entrenchment of slavery in the Southern states.  While not entirely accurate in all cases -- it could be summed up that most of these conflicts pitted the Northern versus the Southern states.  This is a somewhat crude distinction but essentially the north and south grew apart from each other mainly on these issues.  The founders were able to muddle their way through these issues and keep the nation intact -- which wasn't always a sure thing.    And finally, Ellis really brings to bear the human nature of the founding generation.  Jefferson was a dissembling, venal, back-stabbing politician.  The press was vitriolic, partisan, and stooped to publishing any nasty rumor, true or otherwise, to push its agenda.  The nastiness of politics in that era make today's politicians look tame in comparison.    Overall, I would recommend Ellis's work -- although I hesitate to say that it is Pulitzer Prize quality.	2001-07-30
US	50909784	R2A1GF79QWUNQG	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Primer on Genetics	Written so the layperson (like me) can understand it, Ridley has provided a tremendous overview of the status of genetic research.  With the mapping of the Human Genome, scientific advances in genetics will certainly skyrocket and this is a great place to start if you want some underlying knowledge and understanding about where we're headed in this field.	2001-07-30
US	50909784	ROFCBFL6NOK2R	0515130974	1083226	Running Blind (Jack Reacher, No. 4)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Great Action but too Far Fetched	This is the fourth of Lee Child's Jack Reacher novels.  It's a difficult book to review for me because I thoroughly enjoy the characters, the fast paced plot, and the intrigues.  As an action/mystery novel this is an outstanding book.  I could barely put it down.  I've really enjoyed each of Child's novels.<br />Here we find Reacher getting himself into trouble once again by being in the wrong place at the wrong time and winding up smack in the middle of the hunt for a serial killer.  There are many plot twists and some great false foreshadowing.  The end caught me completely by surprise.  Child fooled me and had me going down the wrong path of who the killer really was.<br />The huge downturn is that the plot and set up is so farfetched and so unbelievable that it really ruined my suspension of disbelief.  Granted, this sounds a little odd since most novels of this genre, including previous books in this series, have some pretty outlandish unbelievable plots.  However, here Child paints an FBI that takes corruption to a level that only the most hard core conspiracy theorist could ever swallow.  I think police organizations in this country,including the FBI are morally bankrupt and corrupt -- but Child goes beyond that to fantasy.  What's worse is that even if the FBI is as corrupt as what they are painted to be in the novel -- the motive of the FBI officers in this case make no sense whatsoever.  In short, the setup is absurd on the grounds of logic, if nothing else.  He could have written a better novel had he not take such an approach.<br />Thus, yes I enjoyed the book -- but at the same time am irritated by it and give it  poor rating.	2001-07-17
US	50909784	R370CGP4DDXF1V	0399147624	912786438	Gunman's Rhapsody	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not Parker's Best, But Worth Reading	I've read a great deal about Wyatt Earp, Doc Holliday, and the events surrounding the shoot out at the O.K. Corral. I've also enjoyed some fictional accounts of the event.  Here, Parker does a decent job of recreating the event, but like a lot of fictional accounts, it lacks depth.  <br />The best aspect of Parker's effort is that it looks at the events from an entirely different, and plausible angle.  Josie Marcus becomes an even more central figure here, and the tale Parker spins about the love affair between Wyatt and Josie and its impact on events is certainly credible and an interesting new twist to an old tale.  The problem is, that for anyone who has read Parker's Spenser novels, it reads very much like a Spenser novel.  It's not new, it's not unique, and characters other than Wyatt, Josie, and Johnny Behan, his antagonist, come out shallow and undeveloped.  <br />I think I would have enjoyed it more had it been the first Parker novel I'd ever read, instead of about the 30th.  Nevertheless, I give it a qualified thumbs up.  It's definitely worth reading.	2001-07-03
US	50909784	R3LEWHTJW3GEJ3	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	5	50	57	N	N	READ THE BOOK TOO	Given the impending release of the movie &quot;THE PLANET OF THE APES&quot; I rented the original movie, which I thought was great.  But I just had to read the original book too.  (I'm a reader, what can I say?)<br />I was greatly and pleasantly surprised, quite honestly, about the quality of the book. It was originally written in French trnaslated by Xan Fielding. The prose read extremely well for a translation and the acerbic wit, humor and biting satire comes through loud and clear in the book.<br />The novel is absolutely wonderful satire. Especially poignant were the scenes where the intelligent human has to witness his fellow human beings subjected to sometimes deadly but always degrading biological and mental experiments. Here, MAN is the object of big game hunts where apes go out and shoot down their human prey for sport.  The novel also takes shots at academia and the scientific &quot;establishment&quot;, the stock market, and most clearly of all &quot;species-centrism&quot; (or ethnocentrism if you will).<br />There are a few differences between the book and the original movie. Here, the &quot;Planet of the Apes&quot; is on the other side of the galaxy and is reached through intergalactic flight. Apes are much more technologically advanced than they are in the movie and even have space flight (even if it is described in a somewhat cheesy manner). The apes take over more through the technologcial (and read between the lines, moral) stagnation of mankind than a nuclear holocaust (as in the movie).  But for the most part, the movie did an excellent job of telling a similar, yet different story, using the book as it's basis.<br />In short, I highly recommend the book and the /original/ movie if you haven't seen it. The novel is rewarding in its own right.  Hopefully the new movie will be too.	2001-06-19
US	50909784	R1GBQS3GBTI860	0684870185	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered : A Life Of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Biography of Vince Lombardi	This is one of the best sports biographies.  It is refreshing to see a serious sports biography about a legend. So many sports and entertainment biographies are puff pieces and not worth the paper they're printed on. This biography is well researched, well written, insightful, serious and entertaining. Being an avid football fan I found the biography extremely informative about not just Lombardi, but the Packer dynasty and football in general. I learned a great deal from this book.     Maraniss does an excellent job on many fronts. He puts Lombardi in his historical context, drawing on the local and national climate and culture of the times which brings a greater understanding of the man himself. He also shows the strain it takes to be a successful football coach at all levels, so we need not wonder why so many coaches today burnout (not to mention the toll it takes on the family). His descriptions of the Packers' well known players like Max McGee and Paul Hornug, to name a couple, are also insightful and let us know that players today aren't all that much different from players in the past; the press is just more apt to report about their misbehavior.     Also his description of major games in football history and the story of the Packer's glory years are superb.     This is a must read for football fans. But everyone, football fan or not, will like this biography of an American icon.	2001-06-02
US	50909784	R1QWRVAFTRUSHE	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thumbs up, with some quibbles	The Blind Assassin is definitely worth reading but I did /not/ find it quite as alluring as others.  The story of Iris and Laura Chase is a rather sad one and in many ways pathetic.  The characters are well drawn but they are all - including Iris, the narrator of the story, rather shallow (the characters themselves -- not the writing of them.)  Iris, in the later stages of her life does become a more substantive person -- but too late.  The novel is really her apologia for what she didn't do in her life, especially for sister and daughter.  The novel is well paced and there are many foreshadowings, if you pay close attention, that will clue the reader in to what would otherwise be a real kicker in the end.  The \\"novel\\" within the novel worked well too, although I wonder if a more straightforward narrative approach wouldn't have worked better in telling the story.  I found \\"The Blind Assassin\\" -- the novel embedded in the story, rather repetitive -- it was the same scene and happenings over and over again.  In some ways that was the point, but it bogged down the flow the events.  But overall a definite thumbs up.	2001-06-02
US	50909784	R1HIXGCEUZSD0L	1930008015	660122016	Nowhere Near the Sea of Cortez	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Enjoyable	The blurb about the author of Nowhere Near the Sea of Cortez says he is a poet.  You can definitely tell that in the sharp cadence of his prose, which makes the humor (sometimes dark) that permeates the novel even sharper and funnier.     The story is set in a small Midwestern town in 1969 -- with the Vietnam war, racism, and hippies as a looming presence, but only occasionally felt.  The story is about Jacob Belmo and his interracial cousin Dorina.  As pre-pubescent youths and we view the small town and events of the summer of `69 through their eyes.  While there is somewhat of a plot to the novel, the story is really interconnected vignettes about the lives of several of the townspeople, which add up to a story of the town -- with the story of Jacob, 12 and Dorina, 10 as the focal point.  And this works out perfectly as Harris is able to do his characters and the town justice with an economy of words that bring the story to life.  A very enjoyable reading experience.	2001-05-15
US	50909784	R27YTBI1UAF67H	0886779774	490158599	Sea of Silver Light (Otherland #4)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great Conclusion!	The Otherland series really amounts to about a 4,000 page novel and with Sea of Silver Light we out with a BANG! SoSL is a very satisfying and well written denouement.  This is by far the best book of the series, as it should be given that it's the concluding volume.  <br />SoSL is especially rewarding because we continue to learn more about all the characters' character.  Williams has done an especially good job of  fully exploring the motivations and personalities of all the major players and a few minor ones as well.  And despite the over 900 pages of text, the story moves along at a brisk pace as it builds toward the reader's understanding of the /big picture/ which is the background of the novel.  It does not suffer from long, meandering, somewhat meaningless wandering around in the plot as some of the previous volumes did  (especially River of Blue Fire).  In previous volumes Williams got a bit carried away at times with playing around in the little virtual worlds he creates.  Here the writing is, for the most part, much tighter and engaging.<br />If you haven't read the previous novels DO NOT START here.  The series is definitely worth wading through and much of the depth of SoSL relies on the groundwork laid before.  And if you get through River of Blue Fire and feel disappointed -- don't stop!  It's the weakest of the four books and suffers from the \\"middle book in a series.\\"  It also is the book that could have lost about 300 pages with no damage to the plot.	2001-05-09
US	50909784	R3FO07VTA0WQDN	0684825821	853779423	On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times of Madam C.J. Walker	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What a Life!	What Madame C. J. Walker was able to accomplish in her lifetime is simply remarkable given the numerous impediments she encountered.  She is the epitome of the rags to riches success story -- as well an example of what guts and determination really mean.  While the biography is well written -- it's the facts themselves that make Madame Walker's story so intriguing and inspiring.  Walker went from extreme poverty to wealthy business owner, civil rights leader, and philanthropist.    Madame Walker grew up extremely poor in Mississippi, prior to and through the turn of the century, in a society that perpetuated violence on African Americans in frightening proportions.  Not only did she have to endure the racism and violence of society at large, but her own home life was destitute and abusive as well.  She moved to Saint Louis, becoming a laundress and caring for her daughter -- furnishing her with the best education and protective home life that she could muster given low wages and living in poorer neighborhoods.  In an effort to make her and her daughter's life better she became a sales agent for hair care products, and seeing the potential to branch out on her own with her own formula, she gradually built a large, national sales force and began manufacturing her own hair care products.  As a result she became one of the wealthiest women in America.    Walker was able to accomplish this despite extreme barriers.  First, racism and sexism, especially in turn of the century America, could alone have stymied any ambitions she had.  She clearly, however, had the help of the African American community, and that her product was marketed primarily to women and African Americans meant that she faced only one tough competitor in this niche market.  Her vision allowed her build this into something more substantial -- a national brand name and sales force.  Lacking formal education, she certainly chose those who helped her run her business wisely.  And she overcame husbands (three in all, two that we know much about) who, in the long run, did more to hinder than help her.      What is truly heart warming about Walker is what she did once she became wealthy.   She gave freely of her money to a wide range of causes to help her local communities, the African American community, the poor, civil rights organizations, and African American soldiers during World War I.  She was very vocal and active in the civil rights movements of time and was also active and vocal in national (African American) business associations.  This -- plus continuing to travel widely to build up her business!  It is shocking that she not more widely known for her philanthropy and for being a leader in the civil rights movement -- not to mention being such an astute businesswoman.    And she had GUTS!  She stood up to Booker T. Washington and forced him to let her speak at a National Negro Business League convention.  She actively helped organize and fund civil rights organizations.  She must have been quite robust as well.  She traveled widely across the United States and a few times overseas.  In the early 1900's traveling to such an extent must have been physically and mentally exhausting.    Madame C.J. Walker was a living tribute to her local communities, her race, and the nation.  She deserves more than a postage stamp to commemorate her life.	2001-05-01
US	50909784	R1MX7MRV71X59T	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Entertaining, but it could have been so much more.	As always Robert B. Parker has written a fast paced and at least mildly entertaining novel featuring Spenser.  You can always count on Parker not to bore you.  But overall I was greatly disappointed.  Parker blew a fantastic idea -- Spenser gathering seven of his thug friends, Hawk included, to clean out a gang of nefarious low-life thugs in the Arizona desert -- on a shallow plot.  <br />The plot, a typical one for Parker lately, a cute young woman comes in with a case, Parker takes it, though doesn't quite trust her, and heads out to the desert to find her husband's killer.  There he runs into the aforementioned gang terrorizing the town, and a town chief of police that he doesn't quite trust.  Eventually he is faced with the prospect of having to \\"clean up\\" the gang -- 40 violent ruffians headed by a cult like figure called \\"the Preacher.\\"  Even though Spenser and Hawk could have probably taken care of the gang between the two of them, Spenser wants to be on the safe side and recruits six other familiar faces as well.<br />Yeah, it was a fun ride -- but it could have been so much better.  First, the plot is one Spenser fans have all seen before.  Second, while I like the quick, fast paced banter that makes up a lot of the dialogue in Parker's novels, he goes overboard on it here, rendering Spenser more shallow than clever and providing no substance for his actions.  The \\"gang\\" is a caricature of illiterate, semi-homeless, violent vagabonds and given the context of the novel, not that terrifying.  The most interesting characters, like the police chief, are given no time to develop.  Parker wasted a great idea on mediocre effort.<br />But in the end, was I entertained?  Yes.  Will I read Parker's next novel?  Of course.	2001-04-12
US	50909784	R2Q54VLZXNB5J4	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mama Knows Best	I hate to put a &quot;me too&quot; review here but that's what this amounts too.  I too think McMillan's latest novel is quite good and one of her best.  <br />A Day Late and Dollar Short takes us through the travails of the Price family and they all, including the matriarch of the family, Viola, have flaws.  What's endearing about this book is that Viola knows each of her children, her husband, and herself, so well and McMillan does a fine job at building the characters of each member of the family that by the end of the novel, we feel we know them well too.  And Viola proves that she knows herself well too and her coda is truly heart warming and uplifting.	2001-03-27
US	50909784	R16RIDG3FY1WSD	0684848651	449153991	Ok: The Corral The Earps And Doc Holliday A Novel	Books	1	13	20	N	N	O.K., So What?	I saw a very positive review of this novel and being an avid reader of books about the West, and Doc Holliday and Wyatt Earp in particular, I had to pick it up.  I was sorely disappointed.  So what if the author is considered a great writer and novelist -- the book is neither insightful nor realistic.  Worse it is simply really, really boring.<br />The &quot;novel&quot; takes us through the adult life of Doc Holliday, mostly from his point of view, and attempts to dig very deeply into his psyche.  For the life of me I cannot figure out why West wrote the novel in the third person.  Given the deepness and detail he tries to convey about the introspective thinking of Holliday, it would have worked better written in the first person.  Writing it in the third person made the style and substance seem distant.<br />Second, the novel just does not feel realistic.  It's hard to believe anyone thinks so constantly upon their life in such an abstract fashion.  And the conjectures about Holiday's personality don't feel right either -- based on what I've read of his life.  Sure, West can conjecture whatever he wants about someone's inner self, but this just didn't &quot;fit&quot; Doc in my opinion.<br />After begrudgingly finishing the novel, the question I had of the whole exercise was so what? <br />I knew what I was getting into when I bought the book because I had read a prior review.  I feel sorry for those who bought the book on impulse looking for a Western and the story of the gunfight at the O.K. Corral.  Those who did so I'm sure were even more disappointed than I. <br />I just cannot recommend this novel.	2001-02-06
US	50909784	R156QSQW20HL8Y	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	17	23	N	N	Good, but not Great	I can't say I was disappointed in the continuation of Bean's story from Ender's Shadow (which I thought was great) but it was a bit flat.<br />First the praise.  Card does an excellent job in characterization and that is the main strength of the book.  The reader familiar with the previous novel will learn new and important things about each main charcter: Bean, Petra, Peter, Achilles and Sister Carlotta.  We even get a deeper understanding of the more peripheral characters in the novel, such as Ender's parents.  And they are all, very, very interesting characters.<br />I was troubled a bit by the plot.  I think partially because I made the mistake of reading an online &quot;chat&quot; with Orson Scott Card on... , where he came across in some answers as a bit snobbish about his religion and not very forthcoming about some of his other points of view on issues.  That's his prerogative, but I found his dismissiveness annoying.  Secondly, I read the afterward before reading the book and didn't much agree with what he had to say there about America (or in the online chat) quickly becoming a marginal player in world affairs.  I do agree with many of his criticims of the US, but I find it highly unlikely that the US will be marginalized so quickly.  I'm saying this simply to state I had some biases before I start the book.<br />Nevertheless, the plot is thin and there's little reasonable or rational reason why Achille's or Peter could pull the strings of world powers so easily.  I need more convincing than what Card offers, which is extremely little.   Second, I still don't like the easy way he sweeps nuclear weapons under the rug using the IF.  And finally, that the Western hemisphere is a non-player in the whole the shebang.<br />Basically, I don't think the plot that plausible and the author doesn't do enough to convince me.<br />BTW, I was also maybe put off a bit because there are corrections to the novel posted on Card's official website at ...	2001-01-18
US	50909784	RPC3KD33L088L	0374105014	588283644	An Obedient Father	Books	1	16	30	N	N	Pathetic character -- pathetic book	Ram Karan is a corrupt public official in Inida, and even more corrupt as a father or faimly man.  He finds himself confronted with his sins as both  a public official AND family man late in middle age.  Sounds like an  interesting premise -- too bad it never goes anywhere.<br />I like stories  about flawed characters, unsympathetic characters, but they must devel into  the psyche and motivations of the character to be truly worth reading.   This book is lacking in this area -- almost to the point of banality.  I  still cannot figure out how books such as this get &quot;critical  acclaim.&quot;  I felt I wasted the few hours I spent reading this book.	2000-09-03
US	50909784	RD946K6C8036G	0441007236	486214747	The Dark Sleep (Vampire Files, No. 8)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Finally -- More Vampire Files	The Dark Sleep is indeed an excellent addition to The Vampire Files.  I've  read them all and really thought the last few before The Dark Sleep were  getting a little stale -- they seemed to have the same story line over and  over.  Now we get to learn a good deal more about Escott and see the  friendship between the somewhat bumbling Jack and Escott grow deeper.   Escott has a big secret and something terrible to live with from his past  and it all comes out here.<br />And lots not forget Bobbi!!	2000-09-03
US	50909784	RXMN44V8DR2CV	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Booker Prize?	Without rehashing the plot -- I am a bit shocked this book won The Booker  Prize.  It's a haunting and sad tale told in an almost too cute, sing  songy, back and forth in time way from the point of view of child -- but  told in third person.  It is a clever novel and does explore cultural  elements, but never really digs deeply enough in the pathos she explores.	2000-08-19
US	50909784	R2NCYD90JKB1PL	0671567748	638154132	Laura	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Engrossing--Fine Novel	I have enjoyed Larry Watson's novels and find he does an excellent job at telling a story about flawed people with flawed lives (aren't we all?).   Paul, at the tender age of 11, falls hopelessly in LOVE with the much older  Laura, an unconventionally pretty, and soemwhat well known poet, who has  plenty of hangups of her own.  Paul spends his entire life longing for  Laura -- so much so that he really just goes through the motions of living  without much feeling or direction.  The only thing he ever seems pationate  about is his intermittent meetings with his obsession -- Laura.<br />The novel  almost reminded me of Forest Gump at times, with vignettes of his meetings  with Laura and how he continues to long for her after their departures.  I  could hardly put the book down once I started to see where Paul's lack of  direction led him and where he'd meet Laura next.<br />The stength of the book  is in the characterization of Paul AND the characters he didn't build.  We  get a glimpse of what his father, mother, and sister are like -- but only  through Paul's eyes.  They seem peripheral to the novel, and to Paul for  that matter.  And we build our picture of Laura through Paul's eyes,  sometimes just from news clips and articles he reads.  But we can  understand these characters simply from their behavior and Paul's  descriptions of them.<br />If you have read Laura and like it, as I did, I  would also recommend Larry's Party by Carol Shields.	2000-08-17
US	50909784	R13AQWDN3VADXZ	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good, interesting scientific speculation, weak characters	I've read both the good reviews and bad reviews here -- and find myself agreeing with both.  First, the novel's speculations are extremely  interesting.  I've read a good bit about Neadertals and genetics so from a  layman's perspective the story seems entirely plausible.  The big debate in  anthropology is whether or not Neandertals are a direct ancestor of modern  humans or an off shoot similar genetically but not really directly related.   They mysteriously went extinct and no one can quite figure out why and  this story explains the mystery.  Excellent book on the hard SF front.       The characters and plot are weak.  The novel never really built up an  urgency to find \\"the truth,\\" although it tried, and the  characters just didn't seem that plausible.  The plotting around 2/3rds of  the way through became plodding.  The book could have been cut down a few  hundred pages and lost nothing.  The ending was kind of abrupt.       Despite these complaints I thought the book was quite good and well  worth reading.	2000-08-08
