US	50905336	R11GWDPTUQQ7ZH	1591392888	311957778	Juice: The Creative Fuel That Drives World-Class Inventors	Books	2	4	8	N	Y	Prescientific view of inventing	People wrote books like this about the \\"mysteries\\" of invention decades ago, without shedding any more light on the process than Schwartz's lightweight contribution to the genre. Only recently have inventors and engineers in the West learned of Genrich Altshuller's Theory of Inventive Problem Solving (which also goes by the Russian acronym TRIZ), based on an intensive study of the principles implicit in mainly Soviet-era patents, though also incorporating information from patents in other countries. TRIZ shows how the haphazard \\"methods\\" traditionally used by inventors waste time and resources, whereas the algorithm developed by Altshuller and his colleagues parses away the irrelevant information and identifies the exact \\"technical contradiction\\" the inventor has to resolve, along with a matrix of techniques for tackling it.  <br /> <br />Yet neither Schwartz nor the American inventors he interviewed in his book reveal an awareness of Altshuller's revolutionary discoveries. \\"Juice\\" comes across to me like a popular physics book published in the early 21st Century that shows a complete ignorance of developments in 20th Century physics like quantum mechanics and general relativity. Borrow it from the library, if you must read it, but don't waste your money otherwise.	2005-10-07
US	50905336	RJFXTVVG95XVQ	3823854852	484330351	IDEO: Masters of Innovation	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Inefficient IDEO-logy	IDEO's method for solving inventive problems derives from Alex Osborn's development of \\"Brainstorming\\" in the 1940's, and like Brainstorming it gives the illusion of productivity while in fact wasting cognitive resources. Genrich Altshuller, the creator of the Theory of Creative Problem Solving (which also goes by the Russian acronyn TRIZ), criticizes Brainstorming in his book \\"The Innovation Algorithm\\" by pointing out that it lacks an efficient search strategy and depends on attacking a problem with a mob in the hopes that with enough people it can stumble onto a solution through chance. By contrast, with a rational inventive problem solving algorithm, which Altshuller helped to develop, one person could find a solution in a day and free up the other 49 people to engage in other valuable activities. Inventors in the West have yet to study and absorb the implications of Altshuller's revolutionary findings.	2005-10-07
US	50905336	R2U6RG44IXW1P9	055358717X	152255495	To Crush the Moon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The mediocre immorbid's impressive resume	While I like Wil McCarthy's vision of the capabilities of future technologies to reshape man's tools and environment, his view of the psychology of the radically life-extended or \\"immorbid\\" individual doesn't quite satisfy me. McCarthy seems to suffer from the anxiety of Robert Heinlein's influence, in that he portrays insenescent characters who, like Lazarus Long, live a succession of recognizably human lives, with a few medical enhancements along the way, instead of using their technologies to become something radically different from human, if only to see how it feels. Maybe I expect too much from science fiction from my long involvement in cryonics and my exploration of Transhumanist ideas, but I feel disappointed that the Queendom of Sol lacks room for truly \\"posthuman\\" entities. <br /> <br />On the other hand, McCarthy does convey a sense of how an ordinary person in that kind of society could over the centuries and millennia accumulate a respectable record of accomplishments just from learning and applying normal human skills. It reminds me of Leon Trotsky's fantasy in \\"Literature and Revolution\\" that under a utopian communism, where people had the freedom and the means to explore their biological potentials, the run-of-the-mill individual would display abilities comparable to Aristotle's, Goethe's and Marx's, while the superior individual would go way beyond the geniuses of the past. Maybe the ordinary guy does have that kind of potential within him, if he didn't age or get sick and he had the centuries to develop those kinds of cognitive powers from having to solve a much wider range of practical problems than he would have encountered in a \\"normal\\" human lifespan. <br /> <br />McCarthy does end his novel with a way for civilization to rebuild, so I look forward to more sequels where his ultramature hero Radmer can show once again what he has within him.	2005-09-04
US	50905336	R2ZDEELG4VGZEE	1410791998	381704828	Mothermelters: The inside story of Cryonics and the Dora Kent Homicide	Books	2	22	31	N	Y	What a rational society should do about death	I signed up for cryonic suspension with Alcor in 1990, in my early 30's, and I read this book a few months back just to see how a not-too-bright cop involved in the Dora Kent case interpreted what he saw. Clearly Alan Kunzman couldn't form the new neural pathways necessary to understand any of it, and he tried to project familiar explanations on the whole cryonics project based on analogies with insurance scams and urban legends about satanic cults, flavored with gratuitous ridicule of some cryonicists' psycho-sexual preferences. Nowhere does he show any comprehension of the underlying principles motivating cryonicists, namely, that in a rational society with the kinds of  material and cognitive resources we have at our disposal, we would quickly and efficiently works towards conquering aging and death through scientific and technological means. Cryonicists want to invent and perfect \\"medical time travel,\\" so to speak, because we feel that the biotechnological revolution implies the ultimate goal of indefinite life extension later in the 21st Century, and we need a way to reach that time to take advantage of it.<br /><br />In the kind of world Kunzman understands, however, he would probably prefer to use those resources for building more sports stadiums, fast food restaurants, shopping malls and other monuments to moral and intellectual mediocrity.<br /><br />As for the reviewer who professes to hold a Ph.D. in mammalian physiology and denounces cryonics as pseudoscientific, I would like to ask him: You and everyone you care about face death, so how would you invent \\"medical time travel\\" given what you claim to know? I welcome any scientist who can inject some new ideas into solving the universal emergency.	2005-08-26
US	50905336	R1DRPKB7I9DHYH	047173876X	987472406	Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Welcome to the desert of the real	Matthew Simmons, against expectations for someone with his socio-economic background, has broken ranks with the Peak Oil deniers in this well researched survey of the one oil province towards which all eyes have turned: Saudi Arabia. More so than in other recent Peak Oil books, Simmons shows how the oil industry has run out of tricks for finding new oil fields and squeezing the last barrels out of the old ones, despite the wishful thinking to the contrary coming from some economists and other deskbound \\"energy analysts\\" who have never touched an oil rig in their lives.    I would fault the book for two things, however, though I allow that Simmons lacks scientific knowledge beyond geology: One, Simmons doesn't discuss the thermodynamic aspects of the oil shortage, which limit the net energy we can extract from tertiary recovery and from nonconventional resources like tar sands and oil shale. And two, Simmons doesn't seem to understand how badly humans have overshot the planet's carrying capacity thanks to oil, though he does appreciate the danger an overpopulated Saudi Arabia faces from a shortage of the natural gas it needs to desalinate water and keep the electricity online. As much as Simmons discusses a livable \\"Plan B\\" that preserves civilization, I haven't seen enough evidence that humans will act rationally in an era of declining energy supplies.	2005-06-25
US	50905336	R2PFSAEC359JCB	1401301894	724498680	Down Came the Rain: My Journey Through Postpartum Depression	Books	1	34	119	N	N	No tears for Brooke	Give me a break. Brooke Shields has more money than most Americans can earn in several lifetimes, and she certainly has more celebrity than her meager talent would deserve in a rational society. She doesn't need to drag in paying spectators from the Oprah-watching crowd to share her pain. Brooke has worn out her welcome as a public figure, so please, go live in private and leave the rest of us alone.	2005-06-01
US	50905336	R3JRE4ORX6ESHL	0553584472	495045935	Lost in Transmission	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Kind of misses the point	McCarthy in his earlier novel, \\"The Wellstone,\\" postulates his children's rebellion as a response to a world where people can live practically forever (possessing the \\"engineered negligible senescence\\" much discussed of late) that apparently generates few  opportunities for younger individuals. But his proposed solution in the sequel, \\"Lost in Transmission,\\" doesn't really address the problem. Adolescents do grow up into adults, after all, and the youthful characters carried over from the first novel rapidly assume adult behaviors and a social dynamic that doesn't distinguish them from their parents. They could just as easily have turned out that way by staying in their home solar system.  <br /> <br />Moreover, while the Queendom's physical and biological technologies are quite impressive, its understanding of psychology seems unaccountably deficient. You'd think with all the knowledge and resources at its disposal, the Queendom could have found ways to bring up children in emotionally satisfying ways instead of kicking them out on doomed interstellar colonizing expeditions. And if the youngsters still insisted on going any way, why couldn't some relatively unobtrusive but capable elders (for example, someone like Robert Heinlein's Lazarus Long) have tagged along in advisory positions?  <br /> <br />McCarthy technological vision is often quite intriguing, but this novel shows that he needs to do some more work before I will find his portrayal of a negligibly senescent society plausible.	2005-02-20
US	50905336	R2S7QRZGI30K9Y	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	5	34	40	N	Y	Have you forgotten Jesus?	Isn't it about time you did? <br /> <br />Seriously, though, Sam Harris has performed an extraordinary service through his taboo-breaking book. As other reviewers (like Natalie Angier in the New York Times) have pointed out, Harris has articulated openly what many people have long thought about religious beliefs and practices, but were afraid to say publicly. It's as if Harris has disabled the internal censor that inhibits the Secular Humanist in us all, and now others feel free to follow his example. <br /> <br />Even religionists themselves acknowledge that religious behavior isn't rational or sane when they witness practices in other people's religions that strike them as absurd or creepy. Harris just takes the analysis several steps further and points out the fundamental incompatability of all the \\"Abrahamic\\" religions -- Judaism, Christianity and Islam -- with a world where potential weapons of mass destruction can fall into the hands of their respective fanatics. Religious \\"freedom\\" served a valid purpose when our European ancestors knew a lot less about reality but wanted to end the Protestant/Catholic wars for practical political reasons. The science of the time couldn't decide the truth of competing religious claims either way, and the available technology for warfare and terrorism wasn't that destructive.  <br /> <br />But when we are in a much better position to understand how reality works, and we have learned things which throw doubt on the reliability of religious myths, it's irresponsible to pretend that beliefs like a coming \\"rapture\\" are any less ridiculous than the predictions of UFO cultists that aliens from the mother ship are going to abduct them. <br /> <br />If humanity can pass through the current bottlenecks and survive in an enlightened and economically comfortable state, our outlook will probably be more like Sam Harris's than like Jerry Falwell's or Osama bin Laden's. Harris deserves credit for writing what could contribute towards the blueprint for a livable world in the 21st Century.	2004-09-26
US	50905336	R1DGKTFVIINTJZ	0715632299	326153437	An Intelligent Person's Guide to Atheism	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Atheism for the efficiency-minded	Harbour articulates what I have long felt: That revealed religions are cluttered with arbitrary and useless beliefs and information that people could just as easily live without. (For example, why should anyone rational care about the genealogies in the Bible full of unpronounceable names, like the conflicting ones given for Jesus in the gospels of Matthew and Luke?) His distinction between \\"Spartan meritocratic\\" and \\"Baroque monarchic\\" wordviews states exactly what is wrong with the whole premise behind a \\"revealed\\" religion, since it is undeniable that one's chances of hearing about it are a function of history and geography. Children learn about Jesus (or Krishna or Muhammad, for that matter) in the same way they learn about Harry Potter, which demonstrates that there is nothing in the natural world which implies the truth of these made-up stories. <br /> <br />The Spartan meritocratic worldview, by contrast, leads to discoveries that in principle anyone could make just from following his own inquiries into reality. Harbour points out that a mathematician in Japan came very close to discovering a key insight of the calculus at about the same time that Newton and Liebniz were working on it in Western Europe, even though the two societies might as well have existed on different planets in the late 17th Century. So it's not surprising that people in many different parts of the world have developed philosophical outlooks that sound somewhat like modern Secular Humanism, ranging from Confucianism in ancient China and certain philosophical schools in India all the way to Hellenistic Stoic and Epicurean philosophy. Secular Humanism, unlike revealed religion, has a better claim to the title \\"perennial wisdom\\" because it is implicit in a rational study of the world. <br /> <br />I was especially struck by Harbour's argument that theists' best shot at deriving a god from a parsimonious and plausible set of assumptions came and went with Descartes' philosophical program inthe 17th Century. Descartes' argument for a god also implied a theory of physics that just happened to be falsified by Newton's spectacularly successful alternative model. Descartes' candidate for god therefore fell by the wayside along with his physics. If theists haven't been able to come up anything better in the last 350 years or so, maybe they should take the hint and give up on the god business. <br />	2004-09-11
US	50905336	R2VEFZJWWNHSIZ	0393058573	981156796	Out of Gas: The End of the Age of Oil	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Thermodynamics for Dummies	Goodstein's book stands out from others about Peak Oil I've read because he emphasizes the thermodynamic aspects of the oil problem. Economic reasoning about energy resources can be misleading because economics arose in the 18th Century and implicitly assumed the Newtonian scientific worldview before it incorporated the concepts of heat and entropy developed in the 19th Century. In other words, economics presupposes the existence of perpetual-motion machines. In the physical reality we have to live in, however, the &quot;energy returned on energy invested&quot; (EROEI) determines the true value of an energy resource. The good old-fashioned gushing oil wells we had 50-60 years ago had EROEI's of 100:1 or better, whereas current oil extraction has an EROEI around 10:1 on average and falling. When the EROEI of an energy resource falls down to 2:1 or less, the game is over because you aren't yielding enough energy to maintain an industrial civilization, much less to grow it. However we keep seeing physically ignorant economic analyses of alternative energy &quot;sources&quot; like ethanol-from-corn, Canadian oil sands, hydrogen fuel cells etc. that are really pseudoscientific because they have unity or worse EROEI's, even if the author can assign some arbitrary &quot;price&quot; to the final product that makes them seem &quot;competitive&quot; with real energy supplies.  <br />  <br /> Once you understand and integrate the thermodynamic aspect of the energy problem, you realize that the seemingly colossal reserve of oil sands in Alberta is useless and irrelevant if you can't extract it with a high enough EROEI. Moreover, any physically plausible way to capture a form of energy to replace oil will require a massive investment from the current and struggling stream of fossil fuels supplies for its construction, and it will have to generate an EROEI thereafter that is not only sufficient for our current needs, but also leaves plenty for building its replacements and further expanding the supply without having to dip into additional fossil fuels. Solar panels and windmills can't do this; the factories which make them don't run off of sunlight and wind, but are plugged into the regular electrical grid powered by coal, natural gas and nuclear. Until we can find the thermodynamic trap door that frees us from fossil fuels, we face the prospect of the &quot;Dieoff&quot; plausibly argued on certain Websites, especially considering that modern agriculture burns about ten calories of fossil fuels energy to deliver one calorie of food energy to our tables. Goodstein deserves a lot of credit for trying to get out the truth about the energy emergency, despite the cognitive resistance he's encountering from people who claim to be knowledgeable about physics yet who have been hypnotized by &quot;economics.&quot;	2004-08-05
US	50905336	R1BBGQ1LVD82ZY	0312126891	459697054	Leo Strauss and the American Right	Books	4	59	76	N	N	The Atheists in the White House	I have a somewhat different take on this book than the other reviewers. I am struck by the idea that the Straussians neoconservatives, who have seized strategic positions in the U.S. Government and the Republican Party, fundamentally agree with the Secular Humanists about the nature of religion (i.e., that there's no god out there to rapture us away, much less lecture us about right and wrong). They just disagree with the Humanists about the advisability of telling ordinary people the truth, pretending instead that increasingly absurd and delusional christian beliefs like the ones promoted by the Left Behind novels are worthy of respect, as long as christians who hold such fantasies vote Republican. (By contrast, UFO cultists who promote similar scenarios about mass alien abductions are ridiculed.) In other words, Neocons view religion as a useful tool for keeping the rabble in line, including the unsophisticated religious politicians who support their agenda. <br />  <br />I find this crypto-Atheism contemptible, though also complimentary in a back-handed way. Intelligent people in many times and places have arrived at Atheism by following their own inquiries into the nature of reality. Strauss and his followers just add further support to the legitimacy of the Atheist discovery, though their systematic dishonesty about it has led to harmful consequences in the real world. The increasingly Atheistic populations of Western Europe, where even American christians readily visit for vacation, show that advanced societies can function well without religion, empirically falsifying the Straussian prejudice that the sheep need superstitions while their shepherds can handle Atheism.	2004-07-30
US	50905336	R2BXIBGBORLXU0	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	1	37	72	N	N	Whose side is Jesus on, any way?	Jenkins and LaHaye have Jesus, like a monster in a bad horror novel, do the following to the antichrist's army:<br />&quot;Men and women soldiers and horses seemed to explode where they stood... It was as if the very words of the Lord had superheated their blood, causing it to burst through their veins and skin... Even as they struggled, their own flesh dissolved, their eyes melted and their tongues disintegrated.&quot;<br />First of all, why zap the horses? They aren't morally responsible for their riders' actions. <br />Secondly, why couldn't Jesus just have all the bad guys die quickly and painlessly, instead of putting them through the gratuitous dismemberment? Or better yet, temporarily incapacitate them so that they have to surrender, reconsider their untenable position and possibly qualify for amnesty?<br />Indeed, this portrayal of a returning Jesus would make conscientious converts wonder if they've unwittingly sided with the wrong deity. LaHaye and Jenkins present a Jesus that sounds like something the Ghostbusters, Buffy or Hellboy would have to fight!	2004-04-03
US	50905336	R3N9JTEDVK4QNC	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	1	36	95	N	N	A comic book supervillain	I don't see how anyone could take these novels' worldview seriously. The &quot;antichrist&quot; is like a supervillain from a comic book. He wouldn't seem out of place as the arch-enemy of the Justice League or the X-Men. People who think that Jesus is going to drop from the sky in their lifetimes to solve their problems are going to die disappointed just like previous generations of simpletons who got caught up in this Dispensationalist nonsense.	2004-03-31
US	50905336	R1HS2D2PP6T24F	0679463038	896829839	The Progress Paradox: How Life Gets Better While People Feel Worse	Books	3	8	17	N	Y	Gregg Easterbrook versus Ayn Rand	Ayn Rand's followers and similar ideologues base their world view on an unscientific economic model which assumes that more wealth = more happiness. That assumption was plausible when economics began as a separate discipline in the 18th Century, when most people in Europe and the early United States were just unimaginably poor by today`s standards, much like the inhabitants of today`s dysfunctional lumpen-countries. And I can see how Rand would have found this idea personally appealing, early in the 20th Century, given her experiences as an adolescent girl and young woman during the horrible privations of the Russian Revolution and the early years of the Soviet regime.<br />But 250 years of economic progress in Western Europe, the U.S. and offshoot societies have changed the look of things. Easterbrook provides overwhelming empirical evidence that this equation doesn't work once a nation's per capita GDP reaches about $10,000. After that level of income, wealth and happiness decouple so that we have, on the one hand, depressed rentiers who never have to work for the money they lavish on psychotherapy for their imaginary miseries; and on the other hand cheerful blue collar people who are grateful that they earn enough in wages week-by-week to provide for their families. (Easterbrook promotes gratitude as one of the pro-happiness virtues that short-circuits the wrong-headed equation of wealth with happiness.)<br />So much for Rand's economic theory. Moreover, on pages 182-85 Easterbrook cites psychologist Martin Seligman's conclusion that four common American beliefs, which happen to be promoted by Rand's philosophy though Easterbrook and Seligman don't link them specifically to her, contribute to poor emotional coping strategies that often lead to unhappiness and depression. They are: individualism, self-esteem, victimology and excessive consumerism. Rand's advocacy of individualism and self-esteem are obvious, but she also presented a view of businessmen as a \\"persecuted minority,\\" and she and her followers uncritically celebrated the value of ever-increasing consumption despite all the problems that lifestyle causes. Several biographical accounts of Rand and her movement provide evidence that her philosophy in practice doesn't produce the beneficial results that her novels seem to promise. Easterbrook inadvertently strengthens the case against her, but from the field of the empirical social sciences, not to mention common sense.	2004-01-12
US	50905336	R12EX2H0KFWFT9	0679463038	896829839	The Progress Paradox: How Life Gets Better While People Feel Worse	Books	3	11	27	N	Y	Illusory affluence	I found an interesting mix of both good and bad ideas in this book. Easterbrook is generally on track where he documents how far people in developed democratic countries have come from the historical lot of the rest of humanity. But he overstates how \\"affluent\\" we really are, because most of us have to depend on wage slavery and easy credit to try to buy the sort of lifestyle held up to us as normative by advertising and Hollywood. The U.S. per capita GDP of $30,000 a year simply cannot sustain that level of material consumption. In reality, the truly affluent people have plentiful incomes from sources that pay automatically regardless of one's health, race, behavior or other circumstances. Your annuity, trust fund or other wealth-holding instrument, unlike your boss, can't fire you. The rest of us, if we were financially responsible, would live extremely frugally on whatever wage income we earned because of the predatory nature of American life beyond the patronage of the wealthy.<br />Easterbrook also identifies the ultimate futility of wealth once you have met your basic needs. Income correlates strongly with happiness when you're starving, sick, naked and exposed to the elements. But once you get a full belly, some healthcare, decent clothes and a comfortable place to sleep at night, the correlation breaks down. Happiness comes from sources like relationships, certain cognitive habits and a sense of \\"meaning,\\" which cannot readily be turned into commodities, though that hasn`t stopped the self-help industry from trying. Finally wealth can't buy you freedom from aging and death, though Easterbrook puts in the disclaimer that science could provide even that some day.<br />As for \\"meaning,\\" Easterbrook laments that many Western Europeans, especially, but also to a lesser extent educated Americans, have decided that they can't find it from religious beliefs any more. Easterbrook acknowledges that secular sources of meaning exist, without stating explicitly that a belief in god is unnecessary. Postulating a god doesn't solve the \\"meaning\\" problem any way, because many people find the conjectured \\"meanings\\" of life proffered by religion traditions absurd or offensive. Whole nations have changed religions in a generation or two with no apparent practical effect on net happiness, suggesting that religion isn't nearly as important as many people believe.<br />In general I would like to see Easterbrook's book start a debate about the nature and uses of wealth in our society. Our economy has demonstrated spectacularly that it can produce literal mountains of junk food, unlistenable pop music CD's and novels about the antichrist. How about turning some of that productive potential towards things the world really needs, especially for the billions of have-nots who live little better than animals?	2004-01-10
US	50905336	R1Y7R1O1TLMH79	0932813747	48092962	The Christ Conspiracy: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Jesus is boring	More and more people are beginning to realize that the Jesus story as presented by Christian orthodoxy can't possibly be right. Some have begun to entertain remarkably fact-free theories about how Jesus was supposedly married to the Mary Magdalene mentioned prominently in the Gospels, even postulating that they had children and left biological descendents alive down to our day. But these speculations seem like a desperate search for \\"patches\\" to Jesus' alleged biography to get it to make sense. The traditional Jesus story might also be suffering in comparison with more recent and better story-telling, since Christianity arose in a relatively impoverished cultural environment compared with today's. The Gospels now have to compete with novels, comic books, movies and television series. Children these days would much rather read about Harry Potter than Jesus.<br />Acharya S would have none of those pro-historical arguments, instead basing her analysis of the Jesus story on its unmistakable resemblance to pagan myths derived from a prescientific understanding of natural cycles. Premodern peoples were much more aware of celestial phenomena than modern city-dwellers, and they tended to encode their knowledge of these recurring patterns in ways that to the uninitiated sound like fantastic tales of gods, demons, heroes and monsters. In other words, like the stories and obscure imagery we find in the Bible, especially in the Book of Revelation.<br />The argument for a \\"historical\\" Jesus, by contrast, leaves so many unanswered questions that it looks increasingly untenable. If Jesus was historical, he seems to have left no impression on his contemporaries in one of the most literate societies before the invention of printing, since the \\"biographical\\" accounts came many decades, possibly even a couple centuries, after the time he supposedly lived. And these accounts are so full of holes that nobody intellectually honest can take them seriously. <br />Acharya S does an admirable job of presenting her case for the mythical origins of Christianity, but she had to spoil it by adding a considerable amount of fringe speculation about a lost, technologically advanced global civilization predating the last ice age that built pyramids around the world in places that according to standard archeology and history supposedly had no contact until the last few centuries. There's nothing mysterious about how various agricultural civilizations could have independently built pyramids. That's about the only structure that can survive for millennia constructed from primitive stonework. And as for this lost civilization's alleged high level of technology, you have to wonder how they powered their vehicles for their global travels. If they used fossil fuels, which take millions of years to form, they would have burned most of the easily accessible ones in a few centuries and left nothing for us to find. Moreover, they would have left landfills containing artifacts made of relatively inert materials not found in nature, like styrofoam, aluminum foil or silicon chips. Because of this lapse, I can give this book only three stars.	2004-01-04
US	50905336	R9YTGS8BBRAS5	0738207616	890495571	Rapture: How Biotech Became The New Religion	Books	3	14	20	N	N	It's not "religious" if you can do it	Brian Alexander writes about many people I happen to know. In fact, his description of the Extropian movement in the early 1990's made me rather nostalgic.<br />But he doesn't seem to understand why people would want to conquer aging and death, and he performs a disservice by characterizing the movement as a \\"religion,\\" by which he means a belief system that's impractical or lacking factual support. Scientists have radically extended the lives of certain species of laboratory animals in apparent good health. Because of the conservative nature of the genome across species, similar biochemical pathways probably exist in humans that we might be able to use to retard aging and greatly extend our healthy lives well past 120 years.<br />Religions, by contrast, don't have anything like an  animal model to demonstrate that their beliefs can send animals' \\"souls\\" to otherworldly heavens, much less human \\"souls.\\" So comparing physical immortalism with a religion is patently absurd.<br />Still, I gave the book three stars because Alexander provides some valuable information and historical insight into a social movement that promises to revolutionize the human condition, unless the Kassian \\"Yuck\\" faction succeeds in suppressing it.	2003-10-23
US	50905336	RH2BLM2YTS1RN	0805055762	962995770	Resource Wars: The New Landscape of Global Conflict With a New Introduction by the Author	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Self-inflicted wounds	Michael Klare, I would argue, has a better claim to being able to predict tomorrow's headlines than self-proclaimed \\"futurists\\" who absurdly forecast that computers are going to surpass human intelligence and take over the world in 30 years. That's assuming our civilization can still generate electricity reliably, of course, which I suspect will become increasingly problematic as the parts of the world with projectable militaries fight over the remaining fossil fuels supplies and waterways suitable for hydroelectric damming. Already North America faces the prospect of our pilot lights going out this winter because of a severe natural gas shortage, which portends even worse resource crises to come.<br />I came away from this book feeling really bad about the human prospect. The neo-con junta running the U.S. thinks it can solve America's problems by occupying the oil reserves in Southwest Asia, without any Plan B for dealing with the oil supply's eventual exhaustion. Meanwhile, people in the less developed, dry countries of the Nile Valley, the Tigris-Euphrates region and the Indus River have been mindlessly pumping out babies for generations well in excess of their death rates, and now find themselves facing catastrophic water shortages. In many rain-forested tropical countries, corrupt dictators and warlords have been stripping out their natural resources to sell to Western companies so they can buy the guns and supplies they need to keep their soldiers' loyalty and stay in power. I found this last part of Klare's account especially striking in light of all the free-market propaganda about the wonders of globalization. Despite the fiction that trade requires noncoercive, mutually consensual transactions all along the line from the producer to the eventual consumer, in the real world the \\"producers\\" of many luxury goods like diamonds and fine tropical woods use armed force (including private military companies, which Klare names) to extract these resources at the expense of local populations who want to keep their environments intact because their traditional livelihoods depend on them. Once these goods enter the global market, however, whatever blood spilled in producing them conveniently falls down the memory hole. <br />I would have given this book a 4-star rating, but Klare failed to show what's really going to happen if we don't deal with these resource problems rationally, especially the shrinking supplies of oil and gas. Since the Industrial Revolution we have been living on an artificial energy subsidy from fossil fuels that has allowed us to cheat environmental constraints on the human population by a factor of four to six. We face the likelihood of a massive Malthusian die-off once this subsidy is exhausted.	2003-07-19
US	50905336	R239152G6LYRRX	0441005810	162611851	Complete Fuzzy	Books	3	5	66	N	Y	Our fathers' science fiction hasn't aged well.	H. Beam Piper's implicit worldview invites comparisons with that of his contempories, Ayn Rand and Robert Heinlein, in that his stories present a simplistic morality in the service of a individualist and libertarian agenda. I don't have a problem with that, as such. Many SF writers write that way to appeal to an adolescent male readership chafing against adult authority.<br />I do object that Piper's novels have really dated since their publication. In a universe where Piper's human characters engage in interstellar travel, fly around in antigravity vehicles, employ special machines in court to detect lying and so forth, Piper has them still using typewriters, slide rules, film cameras, firearms and other inventions dating from late Victorian times. On almost every page a character is either smoking or drinking hard liquor. The characters' medical technology still isn't capable of treating aging and obesity. And they seem to reflect Piper's real-world gun obsession and are way too willing to use bullets to resolve disputes. (Any criminal profiler will tell you that an obsession with firearms indicates a disturbed and potentially violent personality. Piper's neighbors were probably fortunate that Piper killed only himself with a gun instead of \\"going postal\\" beforehand.) It's almost as if Piper's human characters had in the 1950's somehow hitched a ride from advanced extraterrestrials to the Fuzzies' planet and brought along their primitive tools and habits with them.<br />This clearly won't do. Science fiction writers produce better stories when they show that technologies usually don't advance in isolation, but often influence developments in other areas, as well change people's social behavior.	2003-07-12
US	50905336	RJNNV1D7AE9T1	0870816713	270875829	Behind the Crystal Ball: Magic, Science, and the Occult from Antiquity Through the New Age, Revised Edition	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Aveni doesn't quite nail it.	Aveni takes great pains to point out the porous boundaries between magic, science and religion. For example, he demonstrates that the premise behind phrenology isn't inherently absurd. Today legitimate scientists accept that bodily shapes, proportions and symmetry broadcast information about one's overall health and especially reproductive fitness. The phrenologists in the 19th Century just carried the program farther than the evidence warranted.<br />Similarly, Aveni points out that the popular enthusiasm for spiritualism in the 19th Century, while clearly magical, reflected widespread dissatisfaction with the institutional religious beliefs in a society roiled up by democratic politics and cut-throat economic competition. Many dislocated people turned to spiritualism as an empirical source of information about what was &quot;really&quot; happening in the afterlife, instead of taking the Bible and their pastors' word for it. These people were using magic to criticize and construct alternatives to the received religious authorities.<br />But I think Aveni doesn't emphasize sufficiently that the human brain falls into magical modes of thinking because it finds itself having to deal with anxiety on a daily basis. A great deal of our behavior, much more than we care to admit, isn't motivated by satisfying animal needs, seeking truth, or anything else that the older rationalistic psychology would have accepted as legitimate drives. Rather much of our behavior is motivated by the desire to manage anxiety in the face of an uncertain environment, even with all our technology and wealth. Hence our natural inclinations to fall back on religious and magical modes of behavior when we confront anxiety-provoking situations.<br />That fault aside, I found this book fun and eye-opening.	2003-07-12
US	50905336	R1EHHXOK8R9BWA	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Defending your grandfather's Humanism	<br />American Christians, especially, have further internalized the utilitarian values promoted by Russell & other Humanists when they market their religion as a means to human happiness, apart from whether there's an angry & dangerous god out there to appease. When ministers like Tim Lahaye publish books about using biblical principles to improve your married sex life, they have basically capitulated to the assumptions of the Humanist worldview. The lack of a state religion in the U.S. leaves churches in a kind of social-entrepreneurial free market where ministers have to compete with one another for customers. Consequently they have been forced to market their theologies in ways that appeal to basic human desires, and as a result they have been moving more & more in a Humanist direction. Russell probably would have approved of this trend.<br />This book, while extremely well written, is more of historical interest now. Prometheus Books has published critiques of religion that are more in line with the current state of the debate, and they are worth a look.	2002-10-07
US	50905336	R241D1WOU9PUN1	0964880679	298071512	The Best That Money Can't Buy: Beyond Politics, Poverty, & War	Books	3	31	70	N	N	Retro Futurology	The \\"Left Behind\\" theology to the contrary, Jacque Fresco writes that we can't depend on \\"the divine intervention of mythical characters in white robes who descend from the clouds\\" to solve our problems because they are \\"illusions.\\" It doesn't follow, however, that the kind of systematic social engineering Fresco advocates will work, either, because it's not taking into account some relevant facts of reality. <br />One, Fresco assumes that humans are born as the blank slates assumed by radical behaviorist ideology, instead of having neurological predispositions for all sorts of nonrational, reproductively-driven behaviors as shown by the rapidly growing field of evolutionary psychology. We have \\"politics, poverty, & war\\" partly because there is a hard-wired human nature that social engineering as such can't change. Supplying people's physical needs through a conjectural \\"resource-based economy\\" won't necessarily make them more sociable; they're likely just to devote more time towards noneconomic status-seeking as they go about forming dominance-submission hierarchies to show off their relative reproductive fitness, and violence can't be ruled out as a possible strategy. The history of well-provisioned aristocracies suggests that growing up in a state of affluence & leisure doesn't always bring out the best in people. <br />Two, in the real world property rights have demonstrated their value as a social institution for getting people to manage their resources and tools properly, giving them incentives to work hard, defer gratification, plan for the future, etc. Declaring the world's resources a \\"common heritage\\" is a guarantee for disaster, even though it sounds good according to socialistic ethical theories that aren't based on real human behavior. Fresco's plan is just a nonstarter in the sort of world we live in.<br />Three, Fresco doesn't seem to appreciate that in the money system we have now in the U.S., access to property ownership is available to everyone. Aproper way to view one's relationship with the American economy is to find ways to get the balance of payments going in your favor. If you pay Federal income taxes, buy bonds and Treasury bills so the government has to pay you interest in return. If you buy a lot of things from a profitable, publicly traded company (current scandals aside), buy stock in the company so that it pays you dividends while the stock appreciates in value. You don't really benefit from our system as a consumer and a debtor, but as an owner of equity and a creditor, and you can leverage yourself into that position through some planning and self-discipline.<br />Perhaps because of his advanced age, Fresco seems not to have upgraded his worldview all that much since the late 1960's, when he and Kenneth Keyes published _Looking Forward_.  Back then his vision of the 21st Century presented many futuristic ideas that were progressive in the context of its time, but his current proposals have a kind of \\"retro future\\" feel to them. Someone well read in the history of borderline sciences can detect in Fresco's book ideas derived from General Semantics, Technocracy, Inc., Buckminster Fuller's \\"design science,\\" radical behaviorism, proposals for a cybernated \\"leisure society\\" and other early and mid 20th Century intellectual fads that never got very far because they couldn't make the case for their validity, necessity and real-world effectiveness. The fact that we've avoided disaster with the money system despite Fresco's warnings decades ago suggests that his proposal for social reconstruction is a solution for some other planet's problems.<br />The history of ideological utopianism the 20th Century shows that we have to be extraordinarily careful before we conduct another social experiment where we jettison a system that works tolerably well in favor of one that merely sounds good. While Fresco's vision of life in the latter 21st Century does address some of my concerns, in general the frontier of advanced thinking about the future seems to have passed on to where the Extropians and Transhumanists are doing their thing these days.	2002-07-30
US	50905336	RIGPYMFVF4G0M	0446387355	143087304	Life Extension: A Practical Scientific Approach	Books	2	14	30	N	N	Twenty-plus years reveal their charlatanry	This book has become more of a historical curiosity than a relevant guide to improving one's health.  Although Durk and Sandy tried to do a morally defensible thing, their efforts to intervene into their aging processes via concentrated man-made chemicals don't seem to have succeeded.  If you search for recent photos of them on the Web, you'll notice that these days they look like hell.	2002-03-28
US	50905336	RO40APQO54XKB	0441810764	163941388	Time Enough for Love	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Might impress an adolescent boy	I recall hearing somewhere that the \\"golden age\\" of science fiction wasn't during some decade in the middle of the 20th Century. The \\"golden age\\" is more like about 12. Science fiction is generally written for an immature, mostly male readership, and Heinlein's novels provide the best illustration of this fact.<br />While other reviewers draw attention to the allegedly sexually radical aspects of _Time Enough for Love_ (which seem pretty tame in the age of Jerry Springer, Internet porn and \\"Girls Gone Wild\\" videos advertised on television), I'm struck by just how little verisimilitude this novel displays. Heinlein made most of it out of his own imagination, and it amuses me that people who seem to lack a sense of irony read all sorts of \\"wisdom\\" into Heinlein's sex- and Social-Darwinist power fantasies.<br />I'm not holding it against Heinlein that he didn't live for centuries, fly on spaceships, break the sod on other planets or travel backwards in time. How could he have? That's why it's called \\"science fiction.\\" <br />But I do find it odd that Heinlein set himself up as an authority about all sorts of things he knew nothing about from his own experience. Keep in mind that he had to take up writing as a career because his chronic ill health kept him from pursuing the active life he would have preferred. (Contrast Heinlein with his contemporary Ernest Hemingway, who did engage in the kinds of dangerous physical experiences he was able to incorporate into his fiction.) To the best of my knowledge, Heinlein never killed anyone, had children, fought in a war or lived in a group marriage. That didn't stop him from writing about such activities as if he had actually done them, but these aspects of his novels seem to me like the fantasies of a physically frustrated man. Heinlein's emphasis on the importance of baby-making seems especially curious in light of his simultaneous belief in Malthusian catastrophes.<br />Reading a Heinlein novel is usually a better way to passyour time than watching television, but I wouldn't confuse his characters' curmudgeonly philosophies with advice that could work in the real world.	2002-03-20
US	50905336	R20FMSFXX9S99V	0471413909	292637331	The Paleo Diet: Lose Weight and Get Healthy by Eating the Food You Were Designed to Eat	Books	4	94	128	N	N	Politically incorrect enough to offend almost everyone	The Paleo dietary theory is looking better and better as time passes.  I've been successfully losing weight by following principles similar to Cordain's, even before I read his book.  Cordain should be commended for defending a thesis that is politically incorrect on many levels.<br />The Paleo theory offends Creationists, because it assumes an evolutionary explanation for human origins and why our bodies seem to thrive better on hunter-gatherer foods than on \\"our daily bread.\\"  <br />It offends free-market zealots, because it implies a criticism of the way American capitalism produces the toxic waste it calls \\"food.\\"<br />It offends the charlatans in the weight-loss industry, who offer the simplistic explanation that Americans are getting obese because they are \\"eating too much,\\" instead of scientifically looking at the consequences of WHAT they are eating.<br />It offends the American medical and pharmaceutical industries, because it argues that a proper diet to prevent cancer, \\"Syndrome X,\\" and other degenerative diseases makes more sense than developing exorbitantly expensive (i.e., profitable) therapies and drugs to treat them after the fact.<br />It offends the social-engineering goody-goods (mostly on the Left) who had the government dictate carbohydrate-heavy nutritional guidelines to us which have proved disastrous in practice.<br />It offends vegans, because it argues that humans need to eat animals for optimum health.<br />It offends technological cornucopians of the Julian L. Simon school, because it challenges common beliefs about \\"progress,\\" and whether our planet can produce enough of the proper sorts of foods for human well-being.  Cordain points out that with current technology, only about ten percent of the world's population could be adequately sustained on a Paleo-compatible diet. Unfortunately, the world's impoverished billions have to take their chances with their suboptimal grain-based diet. <br />In light of this, about the only ideologues this theory doesn't offend are the neo-Malthusians who have been arguing all along that the world is way over-populated.  It's not often that a diet book presents a worldview radically at odds with the usual range of beliefs in our society.  Cordain's message deserves a wide and thoughtful hearing, for what is more important than our health and the food we eat?	2002-03-17
US	50905336	RC7YBDO8PHMK0	0964074028	728441573	And Suddenly the Inventor Appeared: TRIZ, the Theory of Inventive Problem Solving	Books	4	23	38	N	N	What could TRIZ do in a free, efficient society?	I became intrigued by Genrich Altshuller and TRIZ after reading about him in Salon.com a couple years ago.  This introduction to his ideas is well worth the money.  I just find it ironic that Altshuller developed his theory in a society stereotyped by Western conservative and libertarian intellectuals (e.g., Ayn Rand) as totally lacking incentives for intellectually demanding productive achievements.  Altshuller's empirically rigorous inquiry into the real nature of inventive problem solving, based on the Soviet-era equivalent of patents (which shouldn't even have existed, according to some Westerners), discredits the view that the communist system destroyed human initiative.  <br />Too bad Altshuller had to spend his life in such a bureaucratic and inefficient society.  If he had been able to introduce TRIZ effectively into the United States back in the 1950's, perhaps we wouldn't be facing some of the technological nuisances we're dealing with now.  As it is, some of his dedicated followers have migrated to the West, and are introducing TRIZ into American technical and engineering education.  Altshuller's book, unlike how-to-invent books written by Americans, isn't burdened with discussions about the patent process and using one's inventions to make money, which wouldn't have made sense in the Soviet context any way.  Instead it's full of real-life examples showing how the principles he discovered can be applied to the real world.<br />One major drawback in the book, however, is Altshuller's assumption that the reader is better educated than is usually the case in the United States.  His comments about what high-school students are supposed to know about physics reveal that the Soviet school system, unlike America's democratically-meddled-with counterpart, didn't dumb down the science curriculum in response to political pressures.	2002-01-28
US	50905336	R36Y0UB3N9V6ZK	1583762051	375255124	The 21 Success Secrets of Self-Made Millionaires	Books	3	23	33	N	N	Sounds good, but contradictory and impractical	I'm not wealthy, but I've worked long enough in business to see that Tracy's advice leaves a few things to be desired.<br />For one thing, his &quot;secrets&quot; sometimes come into confict.  For example, Number 6, &quot;Work Longer and Harder,&quot; conflicts with Number 7, &quot;Dedicate Yourself to Lifelong Learning&quot; and Number 18, &quot;Take Excellent Care of Your Physical Health.&quot;  Time management is a zero-sum situation, so devoting more time to work subtracts from time that could be used for studying, relaxation, sleep or exercise.  It's no coincidence that financially successful people tend to be unlettered and unhealthy.<br />As for impracticality, Number 11, &quot;Be Absolutely Honest with Yourself and Others,&quot; is generally good advice for dealing with  people who provide you with value and with whom you need to trade on a regular basis.  But in the real world, after years of hard experience I have found that I frequently have to lie to get rid of potential customers who are too irrational or stupid to listen to reason -- that is, to do things my way instead of causing me trouble.  It's better not to form the business relationship in the first place if the costs are likely to exceed benefits.<br />And as for Number 4, &quot;Do What You Love to Do,&quot; again it sounds inspirational.  But in the real world, how many of us are able to make a living doing what we REALLY want to do?<br />On the whole, the book offers some good advice.  But Tracy's reality must be somewhat different from mine.	2002-01-27
US	50905336	R1J4OXQG4R03KZ	1886801215	243419128	Beyond Humanity: Cyberevolution and Future Minds	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Right about religion, but too much rides on their scenario	The idea that robots could supplant humanity has been around at least since the 1920's, when Karel Capek anglicized the Czech word \\"robota\\" and introduced it into the English language through his play \\"Rossum's Universal Robots.\\"  Lately the idea has taken on new life because of a possibly misplaced emphasis on Moore's Law and the growing power of computer networks.  But a couple years ago I read where a real-world robotics engineer joked that if the robots are going to take over, they'd  better act quickly because the batteries we give them only last for about a half-hour or so.<br />Nonetheless, this book covers ground that should be familiar to people who have already been exposed to similar scenarios popularized in books by Hans Moravec, Ray Kurzweil, Kevin Warwick, Damien Broderick and others.  It's pretty much plain-vanilla Transhumanist wishful thinking, though livened up by a discussion of the faults of traditional religious belief systems.  <br />My main problem with it is that Paul and Cox's scenario requires about as many critical assumptions as the Drake Equation to turn out just so.  Social acceptance of new technologies isn't as straightforward as the authors assume.  Why, for example, don't we have technologically doable videophones (a science-fictional clich about life in the 21st Century), while we do have those obnoxious and unreliable cellphones everywhere these days?  Apart from the technical considerations, the lack of demand for the former suggests that we probably don't value having to confront and interpret one another's body language as much as you would have predicted from the characterization of our species as social primates.  For similar reasons, the authors' assumption that most people will readily upload into cyber-bodies can't be substantiated until something like that really becomes available.  Although we should have learned by now that there are usually unintended consequences to what we do, I haven't seen  evidence for emergentand unforeseen AI-like behavior coming from software written by humans for human purposes.  There is nothing analogous to Moore's Law for the evolution of software.  And even if there are powerful economic incentives to create software with such behavior, it doesn't necessarily have to happen on a short time scale if it turns out to be really hard.<br />Paul and Cox are more on target in their discussion of the perverse backwardness of traditional religious worldviews in response to current and foreseeable progress.  Christians should realize that something is wrong with their story when virgins can now routinely give birth via modern reproductive medicine, and soon without even genetic contributions from men.  When Rush Limbaugh went deaf, he didn't pray to some deity to restore his hearing -- he got a cochlear implant, which seems to be working well enough to save his radio career.  Advocates of the creationist \\"Intelligent Design\\" theory have a problem they don't even realize yet:  Humans are intelligently designing and producing things of ever greater complexity, especially computers, yet they are totally unlike things found in nature.  No theist ever thought of attributing to his deity the ability to create a computer, which suggests that humans are able to do things that the postulated deity can't!  (That's why bio-engineering is denounced as \\"playing god,\\" while computer engineering isn't.)  As the authors say on page 410, \\"As much as they may hate to admit it, the religious and the mystical know that science and technology do not just make promises that never quite seem to come to pass, or claim miracles that cannot be separated from illusion.  They deliver the goods.  They make pretend magic real.\\"  When \\"SciTech\\" gets to the point where it can reverse human aging and resuscitate \\"dead\\" people from cryonic suspension, the whole rationale for religion will be thrown into question.  Paul and Cox are a little too hard on Buddhism, however, for Buddhists were way ahead of the curve when they developed the insight centuries ago, now substantiated by modern cognitive neuroscience, that the perception of selfhood is illusory.  (However I find it ironic that certain Transhumanists want to deny selfhood to people while attributing it to \\"spiritual machines\\"!)<br />Paul and Cox finally go astray by putting too much of the burden of conquering aging and death on their predicted cyber \\"future minds.\\"  While they emphasize the importance of funding scientific education and research now, so that the breakthrough they are predicting will come sooner and save more human lives, they don't seem to realize that there are plenty of things we can be doing with current human intelligence to improve our survival chances.  For one thing, there are some as yet unreported breakthroughs in the cryopreservation of the human brain that could enable people dying now a chance to be resuscitated by future medicine.  For another, the genetic mechanisms of aging are quickly being discovered, allowing scientists to design drugs that could give us the anti-aging effects of calorie restriction without some of the drawbacks.    <BR> <BR>On the whole this book gives an overdetermined version of Transhumanist thinking.  Better to read it in conjunction with several others, along with related Web texts, to get a better sense of what Transhumanism is all about.	2002-01-25
US	50905336	RAFUH8I450B3G	0262042002	198735764	Metal and Flesh: The Evolution of Man: Technology Takes Over (Leonardo Books)	Books	3	8	14	N	N	When the over-educated write about Transhumanism....	A &quot;cyborg,&quot; for those of you who don't know, is defined by Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary as &quot;a human being who is linked ... to one or more mechanical devices upon which some of his vital physiological functions depend.&quot;<br />On pages 82-83 of the book under review, Dyens writes that:<br />&quot;The cyborg is nothing but a fusion between biology and culture, and, as such, it marks the end of living beings as defined by our current conceptions.  The cyborg is a semantic transformation of the body; it is a living being whose identity, history, and presence are formulated by technology and defined by culture.  It is a body free of dualities, guilt, sexual repression, and frustration....   [T]he cyborg is a sexless living being, man, woman, and machine all at once.  The cyborg is the obliteration of the biological.&quot;<br />Consider that in recent months Vice President Dick Cheney had a defibrillator implanted into his chest to help along his damaged heart, and talkshow host Rush Limbaugh has gotten a cochlear implant to try to correct his hearing loss.  Do their workaday borg implants mean that their bodies are now &quot;free of dualities, guilt, sexual repression, and frustration&quot;?  Have they experienced &quot;the obliteration of the biological&quot;?<br />Of course not.  What foolishness.  Only an over-educated literary intellectual could have written nonsense like this.  Not that long ago, humanist brainiacs like Dyens were writing similar things about test-tube babies.  Then such babies came along, healthy, cute and cooing, and all talk about their dehumanized status has disappeared.  Today the prospect of cloned human babies generates similar over-heated rhetoric, which will sound silly when a real human clone comes along and seems perfectly normal.<br />Dyens doesn't fall into the &quot;repugnantist&quot; camp headed by Leon Kass, however.  He writes sympathetically about where the convergence of computing, communications, biotechnology and the whole information paradigm seems to be taking us.  He understands that something very important is happening to the a &quot;human condition&quot; once thought to be essentially inalterable.  Only his bookish relationship to these ideas blinds him to the realities of the people who are trying to instantiate them into their lives, not to make some arcane philosophical point, necessarily, but rather to try to survive.  Perhaps he should get out of academia once in awhile and go meet some cryonicists and immortalists, who are quite ordinary people seeking physically possible futuristic technologies to save their lives.	2002-01-20
US	50905336	R3RRYMIZ9J2H9E	1581602820	512941367	Living Well on Practically Nothing: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	4	252	281	N	N	Shows a practical alternative to the American affluence scam	Thanks in part to Ed Romney, I've come to the realization in my 40's that the &quot;affluence&quot; model of life in this country is a scam perpetuated by our socio-economic institutions to keep us servile, docile and dependent on our bosses' good will for our continued subsistence.  Competing amongst ourselves for a per capita GDP of only $35,000 or so a year (not a lot of money, if you think about it), most Americans really can't afford the lifestyle presented to us as normative by advertising, movies and television shows, regardless of how much in wages we might earn.  Many try to compensate for a nonexistent wealth base by running up consumer debts, with predictably disastrous results when you fall behind on your payments or suffer a loss of income.  The only way to escape from this trap is to adopt the sort of obsessively thrifty lifestyle advocated by Romney, save and invest every available penny, and hope that your health holds out until you can become financially independent.<br />I have reservations about some of Romney's advice, however.  A cheap diet based on potatoes, grains and beans might save you money in the short run, but unless you engage in manual labor for a living, eating foods with such high glycemic indices may eventually cause the sorts of metabolic problems leading to obesity, heart disease and Type II diabetes -- the constellation of health problems you most certainly want to avoid.  An approximation to a hunter-gatherer diet would be better, but also more expensive.  <br />I could also have done without Romney's gratuitous swipes at &quot;liberals&quot; and &quot;liberalism&quot; as the source of Americans' financial problems.  Recent events demonstrate that conservative businessmen are just as willing to swindle investors as liberal politicians are willing to raise taxes, so there is plenty of blame to go around for the systematic destitution underway in this country.<br />Nonetheless, Romney offers some practical advice for living a financially realistic life, and I'm glad he's been able to update his book.	2002-01-19
US	50905336	R6NX1BJWNLS3L	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Anger at Ehrenreich reveals our own financial anxieties	Back in the late 1960's, social critic Ferdinand Lundberg in his book _The Rich and the Super-Rich_ pointed out that wealth is not a function of wages, but rather of owning property that produces a sufficient amount of income to provide for some minimally acceptable standard of living. Your property, unlike an employer, can't fire you, much less exploit, sexually harass, surveil or otherwise humiliate you the way a boss can.<br />By this definition, tens of millions of even &quot;well-paid&quot; Americans with little or no net worth are not that far removed from the plight of the lumpen service workers Ehrenreich profiles in her book. I suspect this uncomfortable awareness in the back of our minds explains why some of the reviews direct anger towards Ehrenreich's audacity in suggesting that we have a structural problem in this country when it comes to wages versus the costs of living. Unless you are already financially independent and flush with savings for medical emergencies, I wouldn't feel too cocky about my security if I were you. By showing how service workers are regimented and disciplined by the &quot;free&quot; market, she contributes to the growing realization that the &quot;abundance&quot; and &quot;affluence&quot; in this country are somehow illusory.	2002-01-15
US	50905336	RTTU0C6V8U3LJ	1573927910	33456884	Are Souls Real?	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Americans need the science lesson -- good and hard	In our age charlatans can make fortunes from the ignorant and credulous by selling books and hosting television shows about &quot;talking with the dead,&quot; or else frightening them about missing the &quot;rapture.&quot;  It's refreshing to read a scientifically enlightened critique of this primitive muddle about the &quot;supernatural soul&quot; and its alleged condition after death.  <br />Elbert is not likely to reach more than a few hundred readers with his hard but necessary message, but he should be commended for integrating into one volume a lot of what modern science has discovered about reality, especially about how human consciousness apparently works.  His emphasis that our conscious awareness is ignorant of what most of the brain is doing helps to explain why we can experience moral ought-thoughts that seem mysterious in origin, but in fact just drop into working memory from unconscious mental processes, like an unsolicited memory of some event from long ago.  Christian apologists (e.g., C.S. Lewis) argue that the moral sense has to derive from some supernatural source, but the findings of modern cognitive neuroscience suggests that materialistic explanations are sufficient.  Definitely worth reading, though like most Prometheus hardcovers I think it's a bit overpriced.	2002-01-15
US	50905336	RKVQN8OTODWDV	0312266391	176995987	Buckminster Fuller: Anthology for the New Millennium	Books	3	13	41	N	N	Why bother with Bucky now?	On page 242 of this anthology, in an excerpt from Fuller's second book on &quot;Synergetics,&quot; Fuller writes,<br />&quot;The epistemography of synergetics discovers operationally, experientially, and experimentally that the most primitive of the conceptual systems to be divided or isolated from nonunitarily and nonsimultaneously conceptual Scenario Universe most inherently consist of the simplest minimum considerability none of whose components can exist independently of one another.&quot;<br />Passages in Fuller's writings like this, which sound like schizophrenic word-salads, make me wonder why Fuller still has the cult following he does.  Although he was capable of writing reasonably clear explanations of his ideas and discoveries, more often than not he managed to sabotage his efforts at communication by cranking out arcane assertions like the one above.  How was he able to get books full of such obscure rhetoric commercially published in the first place?  At least technical textbooks are usually written in ways that can be assimilated into the existing context of knowledge.  Fuller was writing way outside of the conceptual box, and many of his &quot;ideas,&quot; if they could be called that, are still essentially homeless. <br />This anthology doesn't really demonstrate to my satisfaction why we should continue to study Fuller's legacy nearly two decades after his death.  The geodesic dome fad has passed; few people these days advocate providing for &quot;100% of humanity&quot; through some conjectural &quot;design science&quot; based on Fuller's ideas, and doing so now sounds hopelessly naive and utopian; and we're just as burdened with having to &quot;make a living&quot; as ever, despite all the propaganda about the &quot;affluence&quot; and &quot;abundance&quot; in our society.  (Just look at the proliferation of nonproductive and low-paying &quot;service&quot; jobs in the U.S. economy.  For example, refer to Barbara Ehrenreich's book _Nickel and Dimed:On (Not) Getting By in America_.)  Fuller's prediction (on page 212) that we'd have &quot;sustainable abundance for all&quot; by 1985 sounds ridiculous now.  <br />The contrasting posthumous reputations of Fuller and Frank Lloyd Wright demonstrate how our culture's priorities have changed since Fuller's heyday in the idealistic 1960's.  Wright is still considered a living presence in American architecture, mainly because he built innovative structures for wealthy, paying clients.  Fuller has fallen into relative obscurity in part because he tried to design cheap, efficient housing for the world's lumpen-people, like the ones in Muslim countries who view America as their enemy.  Our choices in architectural heroes reflect the current belief that financially successful people are better than the rest of us.  Fuller advocated a social philosophy that is fundamentally at odds with early 21st Century American ideals.  I don't see how his thinking can be re-integrated into the current set of allowable social proposals.	2002-01-12
US	50905336	R2BPH3KAL41XT6	0134023390	699224456	How to Be Twice as Smart: Boosting Your Brainpower and Unleashing the Miracles of Your Mind	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Some people need all the help they can get	The techniques Scott Witt describes in this book may seem elementary, but consider how many people reach adulthood in our society lacking such basic skills.  The general lack of cognitive efficiency in America, for which the late Steve Allen coined the word &quot;Dumbth,&quot; allows the person with even a small amount of what Witt calls &quot;Mental Leverage&quot; to go a long way.  You'd do better picking up some simple but effective mental tools than playing with the sorts of positive thinking/visualization voodoo you find in many self-improvement books.  Combine Witt's techniques with some cognitive-behavior habits for dealing with emotional disturbances, develop a plan for maintaining your health, add a realistic strategy for financial independence, and you could build for yourself a useful system for success.	2001-12-11
US	50905336	RD1X3IQULEZLF	1573928798	250896755	Overcoming Destructive Beliefs, Feelings, and Behaviors: New Directions for Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy	Books	3	36	58	N	N	Not Ellis's best work	Ellis jokingly says on page 281 that REBT can relieve the sufferings of the damned in hell by teaching them that damnation is not &quot;awful,&quot; but merely &quot;inconvenient.&quot;  This kind of remark shows the range of applications of his fundamental psychotherapeutic ideas, which he repeats over and over again in this collection of semi-scholarly papers.<br />While the repitition may be part of Ellis's didactic strategy, it does get tedious to read after awhile.  You can get a better idea of Ellis's key teachings in his _Albert Ellis Reader_, published a few years ago and still in print.<br />I find Ellis's new infatuation with postmodernism in this book puzzling, however.  If one's reality is subjectively or socially constructed, by what criteria can you decide that some ideas are &quot;irrational&quot;?  And why is emotional upset considered undesirable without some objective standard of comparison?	2001-12-08
US	50905336	R1R9796KRVYD0H	0965603679	814327295	How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World: A Handbook for Personal Liberty	Books	3	8	43	N	N	Peter Pan for Beginners	Although like some of the other reviewers I found some good advice in this book, I'm bothered by Browne's implicit irresponsibility and even immaturity.  In the real world we don't always admire people who scheme to find the easiest ways in life, avoid pain at all costs, maximize personal hedonism and so forth.  Hugh Hefner has lived that way for decades, and these days he seems pretty pathetic.<br />Browne's gripes about taxation also sound a bit dated, though perhaps understandable in the high-inflation/stagnant productivity growth of the early 1970's.  He was part of the older libertarian crowd who predicted that the welfare state was going to destroy America.  Historical experience shows that our system of taxation isn't anywhere near as harmful as such people have been falsely predicting.<br />I do appreciate Browne's subtle advocacy of Atheism, however.  He points out that even if you do believe in a god-given &quot;Absolute Morality,&quot; as he phrases it, you nonetheless can't avoid the personal responsibility of choosing which version and whose interpretation of it to follow.  You'd be better off choosing a personal morality compatible with your personality and values from the beginning.	2001-12-02
US	50905336	R1Q9DSQNKW3RSY	0840752563	88805299	My Life Without God	Books	2	25	73	N	N	William J. Murray's god without life	First of all, for some historical context: William J. Murray published an earlier version of his memoir about his famous Atheist mother a few years after Christina Crawford's successful tell-all book about her late abusive adoptive mother, actress Joan Crawford, titled _Mommie Dearest_. Christina made a lot of money by breaking a taboo against revealing one's shameful family secrets to the public, and since then we've been assaulted by a series of similar whiny exposes by children of celebrities. William J. Murray, it seems, tried to cash in on the \\"Mommie Dearest\\" phenomenon, only unlike Christina, he had the bad taste to do so while his mother was still alive. Apparently he didn't consider breaking the Fifth Commandment sinful.<br />That aside, this book isn't what I expected from reading the other reviews. Murray may have had a miserable relationship with his mother, but that didn't result from \\"Atheism,\\" which Murray clearly doesn't understand, especially regarding his mother's worldview. People who \\"hate god,\\" or are \\"angry at god,\\" or are \\"fighting god,\\" are not Atheists. It's more accurate to describe them as \\"alienated theists.\\" When you learn the real source of your Christmas presents in childhood, does that mean you henceforth \\"hate Santa Claus\\"? I have read enough of Madalyn O'Hair's writings to determine that she clearly was Atheistic in the proper meaning of the word. She understood the intellectual and practical problems surrounding this \\"god\\" business. But despite what Murray would have us believe, Madalyn's lack of belief in \\"gods\\" was independent of her defective personality and character.  Murray sounds especially foolish when he tries to blame Madalyn's weight problem on Atheism, as if Christian churches aren't full of morbidly obese people like Jerry Falwell. <br />And despite Murray's portrayal of Madalyn's faults, I still came away from his book admiring her somewhat. Murray wants us to interpret Madalyn's single motherhood, strong-mindedness and inability to hold down a job as defects, as if she was bad for not living like a Christian Stepford wife. But I interpret these characteristics as evidence that Madalyn's real talents lay in entrepreneurship and celebrity, which she wasn't able to develop until late in life when she discovered that she could make a good living promoting Atheism. In a more Atheist-accepting society, Madalyn might have joined the ranks of successful businesswomen and media figures like Martha Stewart and Oprah Winfrey.<br />Murray also seems never to have met happy, well-adjusted Atheists, some of whom are well known. Plenty of miserable Christians come from dysfunctional Christian families, while plenty of cheerful Atheists have happy childhoods. Murray doesn't understand that for people traumatized by religious indoctrination (recovering Muslims take note), Atheism can become a source for liberation, enrichment and fulfillment. Atheists are certainly free of the anxieties Christians have about their salvation, the \\"end times,\\" the activities of \\"satan\\" and similar primitive fantasies.  If Andrea Yates had been an Atheist, her children might still be alive now, for Christianity and paranoid schizophrenia are practically made for each other. <br />I also find it ironic that Murray is unwittingly still practicing Atheism through his charitable activities. Giving distressed people tangible help -- food, medicine, clothing, etc. -- is consistent with the rules of a materialistic universe and an Atheistic worldview. Swiss Atheist Henri Durant understood that when he founded the Red Cross in the 19th Century. Religion as such involves symbolic, make-believe activities like prayer, preaching, witnessing about one's deity and so forth, which do no tangible good at all.<br />I give this book two stars for its literary competence and historical information probably hard to document elsewhere. But Madalyn O'Hair's troubled life in no way establishes the existence of \\"gods,\\" regardless of what Murray wants people to believe.	2001-11-28
US	50905336	R1HR4L3K76WJE6	0609607677	511097220	Jesus and the Lost Goddess: The Secret Teachings of the Original Christians	Books	2	9	33	N	N	Scholarship or propaganda?	I enjoyed Freke and Gandy's last book, _The Jesus Mysteries_, and looked forward to reading this one. I felt a bit disappointed, however, when I realized that the authors chose to combine their personal advocacy of \\"Gnostic spirituality\\" with an historical and interpretive discussion of the origins of Christian beliefs. <br />It's one thing to show how to decode the suppressed Gnostic teachings in canonical New Testament scriptures. The rediscovery of the Gnostic tradition has shed a lot of light on what these otherwise obscure writings probably meant to their intended readership. The original meaning was lost when Christianity degenerated into a literal-minded fanatical cult beginning in the 2nd Century of the common era, and its leaders insisted that the Gnostic myths and allegories they chose as canonical (while suppressing the rest) must have referred to an historical, \\"supernatural\\" character named Jesus who was contemporary with the Roman emperor Tiberius. In my review of _The Jesus Mysteries_ I drew the analogy between Christian origins and the formation of the whole false belief system -- within living memory! -- surrounding the crash of a Project Mogul scientific balloon near Roswell, New Mexico in 1947, which has degenerated into a whole-cloth myth about an alien spaceship and a massive government coverup.<br />But it's quite another thing to use such a discussion as propaganda for a prescientific psychological worldview that sheds no light on reality. You aren't going to find any deep insight into the structure of reality by looking for patterns in the white noise of introspection. Science has demonstrated spectacular success in explaining more and more of reality, and is making progress in understanding consciousness itself. While some people try to argue that Eastern mysticism anticipated quantum mechanics and general relativity, the fact remains that the view of the world presented by modern physics is so far off the spectrum of human intuitive notionsthat it is just not plausible that it results from some arbitrary social construction, as postmodernists would argue. It's also looking increasingly likely that the make-believe worlds in which we live, dominated by stories, politics & religion, arose through sexual selection. Men develop and display these behaviors as ways to broadcast their reproductive fitness to potential mates. Gnosticism is just another part of The Matrix created by our selfish genes to propagate themselves while we delusionally think our fantasies constitute reality. <br />Scientific discoveries into the nature of the mind show that prescientific beliefs about \\"souls\\" and such just don't cut it any more. The future of \\"enlightenment\\" lies with something like Transhumanism, which is seriously grappling with the implications of the new science for the meaning, purpose and desirable destinies of the human species. Just because our ignorant ancestors had to deal with the world through myths about supernatural godmen, lost goddesses and the like, it doesn't follow that we, who are learning better about the way things work, should have to suffer from the same disability.	2001-11-22
US	50905336	R3CY0SK5GNXDMV	0060394080	822261939	Oz Garcia's The Healthy High-Tech Body	Books	2	57	72	N	N	Somewhat misleading, definitely out of touch	First of all, although a careless purchaser might assume that the author, Oz Garcia, is trained as a physician or scientist, he clearly is not. I was somewhat put off by the fact that places his disclaimer about his lack of medical training in small print on the flipside of the title page. The blurb describes him as a &quot;nutritionist&quot; and a &quot;health authority,&quot; but according to what criteria?<br />Second, I get the impression that he is financially reimbursed somehow for recommending at least some of the companies selling the vitamins, &quot;nutraceuticals,&quot; etc., he endorses. I have nothing against this in principle, but I would like to have seen this explicitly acknowledged.<br />Third, Garcia's recommendations assume that the health-conscious reader is flush with discretionary income and can afford to spend some open-ended amount of money every year towards his proposed &quot;HighTech Body&quot; goals. This is clearly unrealistic when millions of Americans lack even basic health insurance. I would have found his advice more practical if he had broken down his program into a range of affordability. For example, what could you do if you can afford to spend $1,000 extra a year on better health, what could you do for $5,000 a year, etc.<br />Although the book has some useful information, it smacks too much of marketing towards the super-affluent to be helpful to ordinary people.	2001-11-18
US	50905336	REV5SWJIHNOO8	0310230055	993975616	Revelation Unveiled	Books	1	16	34	N	N	I think I've seen this show before	The FUNDAMENTAL problem for any effort to argue that Revelation  &quot;predicts the future&quot; derives from the fact that this ancient rant depicts a very primitive world:  In Revelation, people are ruled by kings, practice slavery, ride horses, fight with swords, get attacked by mythological creatures, keep records on scrolls and are oppressed by &quot;spiritual&quot; forces (whatever that means). <br />In other words, Revelation sounds more like the world of _Xena: Warrior Princess_ than the kind of world we live in.  <br />And the attempt to allegorize these embarrassments away faces the double-standards problem:  LaHaye and similar bible-prophecy cranks want to argue that the parts of Revelation that are too weird to take literally must have some deeper &quot;spiritual&quot; meaning, but they want a literal &quot;Jesus&quot; to fall to Earth (Revelation 19:11-15) with a sword sticking out of his mouth, wearing a robe dipped in blood and riding a flying horse -- like a Valkyrie, I suppose.  (Western civilization gave up pagan mythology for this?)<br />I find it especially amusing that LaHaye, when he wears his conservative hat, preaches a message of this-worldly self-reliance, rugged individualism and the pursuit of happiness (e.g., refer to his books on sexual fulfillment in marriage and fighting depression) -- but when he wears his preacher hat, he preaches secular despair and the call for a supernatural welfare program (Revelation 21) to solve our problems.	2001-10-29
US	50905336	RTPZO0EZDZHXL	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Character quest	With changes in our cultural sensibilities and two centuries' historical hindsight it's perhaps inevitable that our assessment of the various Founding Fathers would be revised.  Thomas Jefferson's reputation has suffered in recent years because of his hypocrisy regarding slavery and the barely plausible scenario that he could have fathered children on his slave (who was also reportedly his wife's half-sister) Sally Hemings.  Moreover, Jefferson's underhanded efforts to sabotage President John Adams's authority while maintaining &quot;plausible deniability&quot; as Vice President, as well as his general personal financial irresponsibility (he died owing something equivalent to several million dollars in today's money) contribute to the perception that he wasn't such a decent fellow after all, despite his contributions to American independence and religious freedom.<br />While several reviewers here criticize John Adams for supporting the unconstitutional Alien and Sedition Acts (apparently they aren't bothered so much by Jefferson's equally unconstitutional Louisiana  Purchase), McCollough emphasizes that the new nation was fearing a war with Napoleanic France at that time, and moreover worried that the population of French refugees in the country could have acted as a fifth column in such a conflict.  Considering the kinds of proposals one hears these days for dealing with the threat of Muslim terrorists, we clearly don't have grounds for complaining about Adams's prophylactic efforts to protect the fledging U.S.<br />The correspondence between Adams and his articulate, strong-willed wife Abigail also seems remarkably &quot;modern,&quot; and McCollough has performed a great service by making their relationship seemingly come to life again.  John and Abigail  were also on the right side of the slavery issue that was to tear the country apart in the decades after their passing.  Mr. Adams might have revealed an unpleasant personality at times, but his character led him to do the right things in general, and I welcome McCollough's contribution to the rehabilitation of Adams's reputation as a great American.	2001-10-26
US	50905336	R12TULY7814K2D	0743216059	985282642	Life Script: How the Human Genome Discoveries Will Transform Medicine and Enhance Your Health	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Of historical interest, but late to the real debate	Wade, who writes science articles for the New York Times, has documented in this book the personalities and the sequence of events leading up to the publication of the first draft of the Human Genome in June of 2000.  No doubt the real history behind this project will be more thoroughly explored by historians some day, and Wade's compedium of journalism will count as a major contribution to this scholarly effort.<br />He doesn't quite understand the real implications of applied genomics technology, however.  While he does seem personally intrigued by the prospect of regenerative medicine, radical rejuvenation and life extension made possible by applied genomics (in other words, he's not impressed by Leon R. Kass's argument for the &quot;wisdom of repugnance&quot; regarding human transformation), at the same time he's intimidated by psychological scarecrows about the allegedly bad social consequences this scenario could cause.  Our social institutions are currently organized around people dying &quot;on schedule,&quot; as horrific as that sounds, so Wade wonders what would happen if people were to live well past 100 in good physical and cognitive health.<br />For one thing, considering that people's social skills tend to improve with age and experience, a world run by &quot;ultramature&quot; people couldn't be run any worse than the way our world is now.  Life-extended entrepreneurs could continue to create new businesses, wealth and jobs (especially important considering that honest financial success is not a zero-sum situation).  Life-extended statesmen could resolve conflicts and finally create a decent international political order.  Life-extended environmentalists could study changes in the biosphere over longer intervals and warn of potential dangers.  Etc.<br />Cryonicists long ago worked out the social and psychological  implications of radical life extension, and to a degree that puts Wade's speculations to shame.  For example, refer to the book, _Forever for All_, by R. Michael Perry.	2001-10-23
US	50905336	RNDH6OZJP4FLS	0915463733	84388854	Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics	Books	2	23	106	N	N	Weird view of economic behavior.	After reading just a few chapters into Reisman's treatise, it's hard not to pick up on the following assumptions:<br />(1) Wealth creation for the purposes of personal hedonism is the only rational way to live.<br />(2) Anyone who decides he has &quot;enough&quot; wealth must be either irrational, stupid or mentally ill.<br />(3) People are immortal and don't have children.<br />I realize that social scientists have to make simplifying assumptions when they construct their models, but this set fundamentally conflicts with the real world.  Consider:<br />Plenty of reasonable people have values that don't require much wealth for their fulfillment, ranging from intellectual inquiry to social service to quests for &quot;spirituality,&quot; whatever that means. (I don't understand the last value, but I do acknowledge its existence.) Empirical research into the nature of &quot;happiness&quot; reveals that the correlation between wealth and happiness breaks down once basic needs are easy to come by.  That is, wealth correlates strongly with happiness in places like India, where starvation is a genuine danger, but much less so in the utopia of obesity called the United States.  Reisman seems oblivious to the whole spectrum of human behavior and values beyond his rationalistic scheme. He does acknowledge intellectual inquiry, but only to the extent that it serves the purposes of creating more wealth.<br />We've seen a whole social movement in the U.S., usually referred to as &quot;Voluntary Simplicity,&quot; comprising people who want to pursue values in life other than the rather mindless getting and spending that seems to dominate American culture. (As George Carlin complains, Americans are herded to the market like cattle, not to be sold, but rather to buy.) These skeptics about the current standards of &quot;success&quot; seem rational in making the choices they do. I find it ironic that Reisman's standards  of &quot;freedom&quot; and &quot;individualism&quot; apparentlydon't apply to people who pursue noncoercive values his philosophical mentor Ayn Rand wouldn't have supported.<br />Moreover, books documenting the strategies of financially successful people (e.g. the &quot;millionaires next door&quot;) reveal that they buy little more than necessities and generally live well below their means, despite all the commercial harassment in our environment trying to get us to spend money on unneeded gizmos promising instant gratification. Reisman doesn't seem to understand the conflict between the two strategies of seeking financial independence (and thus control over one's time) versus seeking pleasure via consumption (which tends to leave one financially subjected to others' good will).<br />And, of course, we have the human life cycle to contend with. In the real world, people can work for only so many years before retirement and death, whichever comes first, so this fact places hard limits on how much wealth a person can consume, no matter how wealthy he can become. Also, people with children have to renounce a great deal of material gratification to rear them, especially considering the costs of college education these days. You wouldn't know from reading Reisman that people have these kinds of limits on their economic horizons.<br />Defenders of economic freedom would do better than asserting the kinds of extreme beliefs that Reisman does in this book.	2001-08-13
US	50905336	RG823WMS63W77	0553277375	12279843	Future Shock	Books	2	27	53	N	N	Another outdated idea from the Sixties.	Toffler coined the phrase \\"future shock\\" to describe the discomfiture of Americans who had grown up before the Second World War and felt overwhelmed by the economic, technological and social changes sweeping over the U.S. by the late 1960's.  For example, my father, born in 1927 (the year Charles Lindbergh flew across the Atlantic), grew up in a world before antibiotics, computers, nuclear power, jet travel, space lauches, etc. entered the material culture.  He didn't get to see his first television broadcast until well into his 20's.  So perhaps by the late 1960's he could have felt \\"future shock.\\"    I, by contrast, entered the world in 1959, and all of these things have existed in my environment in one way or another since then.  A lot of the stuff considered \\"cutting edge\\" these days derives from ideas already worked out by the 1970's, though instantiated perhaps in unforeseen ways.  The world I see around me in the early 21st Century hasn't really changed that much since my teens.  It already sounds \\"retro\\" to refer to our time as the Jet/Atomic/Space/Information Age.  And we still have to struggle with a lot of chronic problems that we haven't solved through technological progress, like dependence on fossil fuels, even though we should have learned our lesson from what happened to the U.S. in the 1970's.      So where do I find all this \\"future shock\\" Toffler expects me to feel?  Toffler's \\"classic\\" book reminds me of similar meretricious intellectual fads from the 1960's that few people take seriously these days, like the belief that the drug-tripping Counterculture would inaugurate a utopian society and nonsense of that sort. I suppose it has some historical interest as popular intellectualism from that era, along with books by the likes of Herbert Marcuse, Timothy Leary and Abraham Maslow.  But it really doesn't describe the sort of world we live in.	2001-08-11
US	50905336	RNAJUW9KRZL66	0312223374	952774713	The Noblest Triumph: Property and Prosperity Through the Ages	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mine and thine: Key to a civilized world in the 21st Century	Tom Bethell has written, in remarkably plain English, an explanation of how property really works in the functioning of economically effective societies.  The attack on the legitimacy of property led to massive social disasters in the 20th Century, which will take the affected billions of victims (that is, the ones fortunate to have survived) decades to recover from.  It's time to make a clean sweep and institute an Anglo-American system of property rights around the world  -- probably the one form of &quot;globalization&quot; that will improve people's prospects more than anything.	2001-07-20
US	50905336	R1VEBUYBLGRIPX	0805057870	581888305	Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Conquest of predators = &quot;death of god&quot;?	Ehrenreich begins with an reasonable assumption and a fact:  She reasonably assumes that for tens of millennia our ancestors were cat food (while also occasionally serving as food for other predators like wolves, bears, crocs, etc.); and she points out that adherents to all the ancient religions we know of (including Judaism) offered bloody sacrifices to their &quot;gods&quot; as if they were appeasing man-eating predators with substitute victims.<br />She then goes on to explore the career of the &quot;passions of war&quot; from this foundation.  But I think she really should have developed further the implications of these ideas for the &quot;passions of religion.&quot;  If, as she implies, belief in &quot;gods&quot; derives from fear of predators, then the general conquest of predators the world over should inaugurate an era of freedom from fear of the gods.  Does this indicate that &quot;a-theism&quot; in reality means &quot;the absence of predators&quot;?	2001-07-16
US	50905336	R26SCX06PXOE87	1571780998	590953156	Secrets from an Inventor's Notebook: By Maurice Kanbar, Creator of SKYY Vodka and Holder of over...	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Not quite the advice I was looking for.	I've been reading some of these how-to books about inventing, more for advice about the creative thinking involved than for all the legal minutiae about getting the patent and trying to sell your invention to a company.  <br />Kanbar supplied me with some information I can use about the former, but I don't find the rest of his book all that valuable.  The description of his medical inventions is potentially instructional, but his nonpatentable &quot;invention&quot; of the multiplex theater, and his story about creating SKYY vodka, tell more about his entrepreneurialism than his process of inventive reasoning.  And do people really need to be drinking more vodka, now that Kanbar has marketed a variety that doesn't cause hangovers?<br />I'm looking for books which describe the finding of effective solutions to problems as an end in itself, not as a means to make a fortune (though the money could certainly come in handy!).  This book doesn't meet my needs, and may not meet the needs of others with similar goals.	2001-07-16
US	50905336	R1TKDCCD8PTSNS	0879759291	936960234	Living Without Religion	Books	3	22	34	N	N	Necessary coinage	Kurtz coined the word &quot;eupraxophy&quot; to distinguish Secular Humanism from belief systems usually considered &quot;religions.&quot;  Eupraxophy accepts the best ethical principles of historical philosophies and religions, but disentangles them from the superstitions of theism (e.g., Christianity), while combining them with the pursuit of rigorous philosophical and scientific inquiry, which is missing in Eastern ethical systems like Confucianism and Buddhism.<br />Critics have complained that &quot;eupraxophy&quot; is hard to pronounce, and in his later writings Kurtz has been spelling it with an extra &quot;s,&quot; as in &quot;eupraxsophy.&quot;  But I don't see why its pronounciation with the original spelling is any harder than pronouncing &quot;saxophone.&quot;  This book is a significant contribution to our understanding and classification of worldviews, though it could benefit from a discussion of more recent eupraxophies like Objectivism and Transhumanism.	2001-07-16
US	50905336	R1WIRM5BBNGRR5	0812690982	245391279	The Good Mood: The New Psychology of Overcoming Depression	Books	4	27	38	N	N	Anti-whining strategy for fighting depression	For some reason, perhaps because many intellectuals suffer from and write about it, depression has become a trendy psychological affliction among people who by objective criteria have little to complain about.<br />Julian L. Simon suffered from depression for many years, yet he was able to defeat it through an eclectic approach incorporating ideas from his Jewish cultural background, cognitive therapy, existential therapy, Eastern philosophy and other sources.  It's refreshing to find someone who emphasizes that depression derives from an unhealthy form of self-absorption that needs to be disputed vigorously.  Stop making comparisons between your actual life and some hypothetical &quot;ideal&quot; life; recognize that you have an obligation to provide an emotionally healthy environment for the people you love; cultivate the values that conflict with your depression.  In general, take action against your depression instead of selfishly wallowing in it.<br />Although Simon mentions his economics research only in passing in _Good Mood_, I also recommend reading his books about the positive trends in the environment, population and general material well-being to provide some cognitive support for a better attitude towards the human prospect.	2001-07-06
US	50905336	R3BCCHCXL10YO8	0440508274	935951191	How to Think Like Leonardo da Vinci: Seven Steps to Genius Every Day	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Misleading title	I found this book medium-interesting, hence the three stars. But I found the title and presentation somewhat misleading. If Gelb has figured out &quot;how to think like Leonardo da Vinci,&quot; then where are his great works of art, scientific discoveries and plausible far-future inventions? Is he sitting on them, recorded in voluminous but unorganized notebooks, the way da Vinci did?<br />Or is he, like other &quot;creativity experts&quot; whose books I've read, another of those guys in the self-help/consultancy hustle who tells others how to do something that he's not been able to do himself? Writers in that business are like authors of sex advice books who have had little sexual experience themselves. I would respect Gelb somewhat more if he could demonstrate through some tangible results that he really has cracked the great mystery of da Vinci's mind in a way that can be effectively taught to others.  Realistically, Gelb should have titled his book, &quot;How Leonardo da Vinci apparently thought,&quot; for he is clearly on the outside, looking in and trying to make sense of a puzzling phenomenon.	2001-07-05
US	50905336	R1OAG6GQAR0N0H	0847699668	759661256	Embracing the Power of Humanism	Books	3	2	17	N	N	Advanced thinking for the 20th Century	Paul Kurtz's writings about Secular Humanism represent just about the best that man's intellect could propose regarding the good life in the context of the 20th Century. Guess what? The context for what's thinkable and doable is rapidly changing in the 21st Century.<br />Secular Humanism's main weakness -- its fatalism about human mortality -- seems hopelessly feckless in light of what advanced thinkers are foreseeing as the radical rejuvenation and life extension offered by medicine circa 2030 and beyond. Anyone who doubts this apparently hasn't been paying much attention to the science news lately, or else hasn't been thinking about its deeper implications. Neo-Luddites take this scenario seriously, hence their efforts to stop or &quot;relinquish&quot; progress in biotech, nanotech and artificial intelligence.<br />Because of this failure of nerve and imagination, Kurtz cannot effectively counter Nihilism, a pessimistic, heretical interpretation of Secular Humanist premises. The prospect of conquering aging and death through human efforts offers the best hope of defeating Nihilism (not to mention supernaturalistic belief systems) and making a modified Secular Humanism, with the proffered name of Transhumanism, the working creed of a civilized and livable world.<br />Kurtz has collected in this one volume a kind of time capsule of what Secular Humanism had to offer in biomedically primitive times. Though I don't understand what he was trying to show by recounting his friend's deathbed conversion to Catholicism, for that just reinforces religious stereotypes about Atheism/Humanism being an unsustainable way to live. If you want to know what will replace Secular Humanism, look up the significant body of Transhumanist philosophy on the Web.	2001-07-05
US	50905336	R2IBQ02QVDDX97	089815913X	278858023	Cracking Creativity: The Secrets of Creative Genius	Books	3	35	60	N	N	The paradox of &quot;creativity experts&quot;	I'm glad people like Michalko are out there studying creativity and trying to organize their findings in books of this sort.  But I am struck by a very odd thing:  If these guys have figured out how creative people do their thing, why haven't they figured out how to become creative themselves?<br />Instead, these &quot;creativity experts&quot; strike me as being like someone who would write a sex advice book without having much sexual experience himself.  I would be more impressed by one of these guys if he had turned himself around from lesser to greater creativity through the use of the techniques he describes, as evidenced through patents for commerically successful inventions, or something like that.  The whole point of offering self-help advice is that one can demonstrate that he knows what he is talking about.	2001-07-04
US	50905336	R2EPHC4241KWGD	156833172X	653229387	Take Control: Master the Art of Self-Discipline and Change Your Life Forever	Books	4	1	10	N	N	A cut above other books of this sort.	I've been reading a lot of self-help books lately, and this one stands out somewhat from the rest in that it advocates a full-spectrum approach to improving one's life.  Assuming we can take Janke's professed Navy SEAL career at face value, what he says about self-discipline seems especially intriguing because of the hard reality-testing SEALs have to undergo to be effective in a brutal world.  I was also pleasantly surprised to find that his description of the &quot;Basics of a Commando's Diet&quot; (p. 129) resembles one I have been adhering to lately, and successfully losing weight on, though unlike in Janke's diet I tend to avoid grains because of their high glycemic indices.<br />I find a few faults with Janke's advice, however.  His description of relying on the &quot;Sixth Sense&quot; sounds borderline paranormal to me, as does his infatuation with the alleged powers of &quot;Far East&quot; mystics.  (Time to dump this sort of Eurocentric expression.  China isn't &quot;far&quot; if you live there!)  And judging from Janke's photo on the cover of his book, his advice about always dressing for success would seem more credible if he spent the money on some better-fitting dress shirts.  <br />One last thing:  Janke relates his SEAL adventures as if they were sporting expeditions, instead of missions involving the shedding of human blood.  Okay, the people SEALs have to kill probably deserve it, but I wish these ex-military types wouldn't trivialize what they have to do in the course of defending the American Empire.	2001-06-08
US	50905336	R189UDNPKTR6SU	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	4	16	N	N	Hey, Gotama was just a guy	I didn't know much about Gotama and Buddhism before I read this book. Armstrong has pretty much satisfied my curiosity, though she seems oblivious to some major flaws in Gotama and his message. <br />Viewing life as a succession of agonies, which was Gotama's starting point, is approximately true in premodern societies, so the Buddhist attack on egotism and desire makes sense as a strategy for managing a bearable existence in such a world. In wealthy societies, by contrast, we are largely sheltered from hunger, disease, exposure, violence, etc., so it seems ludicrous to argue that we are tormented by desires for things that are really no longer scarce. <br />Empirical studies into the nature of happiness reveal that income correlates strongly with happiness among poor people, as in modern India, but that the correlation breaks down once you earn enough to meet your basic needs.  You don't relieve suffering by renouncing desires, but by learning how to satisfy them via economic and technological progress.  With advances in biotechnology, it's even conceivable that aging and death will no longer threaten us in a few more decades. _Time_ magazine, for example, has recently featured a cover story about how it's likely that cancer will become a manageable chronic disease in a few years, instead of the mandatory death sentence for most people it is now. This kind of progress wouldn't have happened in a society brainwashed by Buddhist resignation and sloth.  Buddhism in the modern world is a solution in search of a problem.<br />Moreover, Armstrong, who used to be a Catholic nun, apparently isn't bothered by the fact that Gotama and his cult-followers, down to the present day, depended upon begging for their subsistence. It wouldn't bother me if Gotama had produced his own subsistence through a minimal amount of work, or else lived off of his own wealth. But to preach a liberation from suffering, on the one hand, while on the other hand expecting to be fed by the labor ofothers, strikes me as hypocritical. In the poor society Buddhism arose in, the burden of supporting a proliferation of thousands of unproductive &quot;holy men&quot; would have greatly increased the suffering of working people who already had no margin of safety to begin with.<br />I don't know why Westerners feel the need to abandon our own culture, which works tolerably well, in favor of non-Western belief systems which are clearly dysfunctional in the modern world. Armstrong writes well, but she could have chosen a biographical subject who has performed the human race a genuine service, instead of Gotama's psychological sleights-of-hand.	2001-05-29
US	50905336	R2YG8XCT07L6M0	0806520329	763217692	The Albert Ellis Reader: A Guide to Well-Being Using Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy	Books	4	25	31	N	N	Ellis's Tough-Love Liberalism	Ellis makes no effort to hide his political and social liberalism.  He's quite open about his Atheism, advocacy of sexual freedom and skepticism about the values of capitalism.  (For the last, refer to his 1968 book, _Is Objectivism a Religion?_, unfortunately now out of print.)<br />But unlike the whining victimization now embraced by liberal and leftist intellectuals, Ellis takes a refreshingly old-fashioned, but nonetheless effective, approach towards helping people with their problems.  He emphasizes over and over again that people upset themselves with their irrational and unscientific thoughts about their situations in life.  Emotional disturbance is a self-inflicted philosophical and ideological disorder.  <br />Sure, people can be hurt or exploited by circumstances beyond their control, but how they respond to these circumstances determines whether they meet adversity effectively or not.  Not that long ago, facing adversity with head held high was called &quot;strength of character.&quot;  Because so many people in our wealthy society grow up sheltered from real threats to their health and safety (as compared with children in those impoverished or war-torn places we see on the evening news), psychological &quot;threats&quot; assume an importance all out of proportion to their actual danger.  The suffering is real, nonetheless, and Ellis has spent his life well in developing techniques for helping the emotionally dysfunctional to straighten out their emotions by identifying and disputing irrational beliefs.<br />This book contains a wonderful survey of Ellis's writings, showing all aspects of his thought and career.  If you want to learn how to improve your emotional health, this book is a good place to begin.	2001-05-16
US	50905336	R375V48LV5HT9Q	0805019790	492289819	Bionomics: Economy As Ecosystem	Books	2	31	71	N	N	Wrong model for progress.	I learned some interesting things from this book, especially about the role of the Experience Curve in dramatically driving down the prices of new products.  <br />Unfortunately the overall view seems to offer wrong-headed advice for solving our problems.<br />One, in nature ecosystems don't grow productive without limit.  Liebig's Law constrains how much biomass a given environment can support, beyond which there can be only change within limits (or drift between attractors, in chaos theory terms), but not \\"boundless expansion.\\"  Presumably people who want to find a model for economic progress wouldn't want our economy to top off at some level of production and then stagnate, which is what we see in natural ecosystems.<br />Two, while Rothschild presents the Experience Curve as a refutation of the Principle of Diminishing Returns, in reality it is just a delayed form of that dismal principle.  You might drive down the cost of a new product quite easily through several doublings in the experience you've acquired in producing it.  But most of the products we depend on -- especially electricity and fossil fuels -- have such enormous amounts of experience behind their production already that you'd have to wait for many decades or even centuries before the next doubling has accumulated and worked it cost-reducing effect.  Instead we see a diminishing return on cost reduction from each unit of experience, at least on the kind of timescale we have to deal with today. <br />Three, Rothschild apparently has no clue that in the real American economy, the overwhelming majority of people don't produce or handle tangible goods for a living, but instead work in non-productive, or worse, counter-productive, \\"services.\\"  Retail clerks and restaurant workers outnumber factory workers in the U.S. these days, yet these personal-service jobs don't create real wealth, and resist becoming more efficient because of the nature of human social interaction....  Presumably a bionomic view ofthe economy could account for parasitism, as in natural ecosystems, yet Rothschild doesn't seem to understand how serious a threat the \\"service sector\\" is to genuine progress.<br />And four, the libertarian cult status this book has attained among \\"New Economy\\" cranks probably has contributed to  the mess the U.S. economy is in now.  (The first edition was published in the early 1990's, just in time to wreak its intellectual and practical damage.) Between the anti-progress successes of the Left, and the Right's taxophobic, anti-government agenda and infatuations with meretricious New Economy and globalist free-trade theories, the U.S. has begun the New Millennium with a rapidly deteriorating infrastructure, energy shortages, deindustrialization and other problems that a reasonable grasp of reality could have prevented....	2001-05-15
US	50905336	R2RTKFHFPP5K13	0879517204	937274330	Jesus: One Hundred Years Before Christ	Books	3	29	37	N	N	The Messiah Who Wasn't There.	Ellegard points out many of the right problems in the &quot;orthodox&quot; view of Christian origins based on a scientific study of the early texts.  But his postulation that the Jesus belief came from some corrupted tradition about the Essene Teacher of Righteousness seems unnecessary to me.  It's quite possible that Jesus was a mythological savior-god from the beginning, along with Mithras, Hercules, Osiris, Dionysus, Adonis, and all the similar figures worshipped by Mediterranean peoples at that time.  (Refer to the book, _The Jesus Mysteries_.)<br />It's quite possible for a totally false belief system to arise from some misunderstood event or story.  In our time we've seen one emerge from the crash of a &quot;Project Mogul&quot; scientific balloon near Roswell, New Mexico, in 1947.  An unusual event with a prosaic explanation has turned into a quasi-religious cult about the crashed alien spaceship, dead aliens, massive government coverup and conjectures that modern technologies were in fact reverse-engineered from alien artifacts recovered from that event.  If a story that preposterous could gain adherents in our society, it's not hard to see how something similar could have happened on a much larger scale in a much less knowledgeable society like the declining Roman Empire.<br />Ellegard's book is worth reading for the background information on the problems surrounding Jesus' historicity, but I don't find his solution all that persuasive.	2001-05-03
US	50905336	R23AU1LAU6R17I	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	1	38	92	N	N	&quot;Musturbation&quot; versus human well-being.	Lewis begins his argument for Christianity by pointing out the grammatical oddity (in English) that we often speak of things that we ought, or ought not, do.  He then makes the dramatic leap that the origin of such ideas must come from some SUPERNATURAL realm, and thus opens a doorway for the arbitrary and historically contingent Judeo-Christian ideas about &quot;god.&quot;<br />Now, really.  When you buy a new auto, and you read in the owner's manual something like, &quot;You ought to change the oil every 3,000 miles,&quot; are you to conclude that you've just received a &quot;supernatural&quot; revelation?<br />Of course not.  Some human invented that ought-statement as a way of expressing the relationship between a means and an end, in this case, maintaining one's auto properly.  Moral ought statements are no different, though their origins have been lost in the passage of time.  They express relationships relating to the maintenance of a workable society, with the &quot;supernatural&quot; sanctions associated with them acting as a kind of psychological scarecrow to improve compliance.<br />Moreover, since Lewis argues elsewhere (_The Abolition of Man_), following David Hume, that you can't derive ought from is, this effectively destroys the argument that the postulated existence of a god means that we ought to act in certain ways.  &quot;We ought&quot; cannot follow in any way from &quot;God is,&quot; so Lewis's case is dead on arrival.<br />Moreover, even if the origin of moral ideas is genuinely mysterious (though I don't see them that way), you can't explain a mystery by invoking an even bigger mystery (&quot;god&quot;).<br />And to top off my critique, I might add that modern cognitive psychotherapy (exemplified by the popular writings of Albert Ellis and David Burns, many of them still in print) has discovered that a lot of unnecessary emotional distress results from irrational adherence to ought, must and have-to ideas.  Ellis coined the term &quot;musturbation&quot; to describe the kind of crooked thinking responsible for so much human suffering.  We can use ought statements as guidance when they serve human flourishing, but the kind of unthinking ought-idolatry promoted by Lewis and other Christian moral absolutists causes nothing but misery.	2001-04-24
US	50905336	R23PQ3UCJ3UO34	0910309264	452685083	The Bible Handbook	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Standard biblical errancy reference	This book raises most of the right issues about the reliability of the Bible, especially regarding the problems surrounding the teaching and character of Jesus.  Their comments on the fig tree story in Mark 11 are especially incisive.  (I would add that Jesus could have miraculously made the fig tree produce fruit out of season, if he wanted figs that badly.  And if the tree was someone's property, he committed an act of vandalism by killing it!)<br />The chapter that hasn't worn well, however, is the one where Foote and Ball describe all of what they considered &quot;obscenities&quot; in the Bible.  Perhaps to their Victorian sensibilities (the book was originally published circa 1900 CE), descriptions of circumcisions, menstruation taboos, &quot;goings in unto the harlot,&quot; and so forth were unseemly, but as a 21st Century CE Materialist I don't find them particularly offensive.  The Old Testament writers are generally quite frank about the animal substrate in human nature, which New Testament writers try to ignore or &quot;spiritualize&quot; away as they were under the influence of Greek philosophical dualism.  Not all Greek-inspired writers were that reticent to acknowledge the biological facts of human existence, however:  The Roman Epicurean, Lucretius, is quite as open about bodily functions in his poem _De Rerum Natura_ as many of the Old Testament writers are.<br />No, I'm not offended by the Bible's acknowledgement of our animality.  It just supports the Materialist position that we are products of this world, and not visitors from some &quot;higher plane.&quot;  The passages which offended Foote and Ball may be in bad taste, or present examples of conduct which wouldn't be wise to emulate, but I don't consider them specimens of biblical errancy per se.<br />Still, this book is a worthwhile addition to the skeptic's library, despited the compilers' outdated attitudes.	2001-04-20
US	50905336	R137O2AC2J6PJA	0890814406	967410988	There's a New World Coming: An In-Depth Analysis of the Book of Revelation	Books	1	33	86	N	N	&quot;A land in turmoil cried out for a hero....&quot;	I read this book years ago, and I've studied Revelation carefully on my own.  <br />Sorry.  I'm not buying this story that Revelation &quot;predicts the future.&quot;<br />In Revelation, people are ruled by kings, practice slavery, ride horses, fight with swords and get attacked by mythological creatures.  It sound more like the world of XENA than the kind of world we live in!  I don't see how anyone could take this stuff seriously.	2001-04-18
US	50905336	R2MV5ADA3568DO	0738822701	799285810	Strange City: The Future of Neo-Tech	Books	1	21	24	N	N	Couldn't finish it.	I got about two-thirds of the way through this book before deciding that I couldn't finish it.  I was hoping to read a reasonably coherent depiction of the Neo-Tech philosophy, but what I got is a weird, weird, weird! mix of: Ayn Rand; Transhumanism; Right-Wing historical conspiracy theories; ignorantly portrayed ethnic and racial stereotypes; and despite the explicit Atheism, some quasi-religious ideas similar to those of Mormonism, the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Technological Singularity theory, Christian Rapture/&quot;Left Behind&quot; theology, and even Frank Tipler's Omega Point theory. <br />Now, there is no reason a priori why these elements could not have been incorporated into a mind-bending story, provided that the writer was reasonably competent and had a sense of irony.  (Philip K. Dick comes to mind.)  But this author (1) is an uncritical Neo-Tech true believer, despite the fact that Neo-Techies aren't succeeding in life better than the rest of us, and (2) clearly isn't literate enough to have any business  writing novels, as evident by the pervasive misspellings, lack of punctation, broken sentences, etc.  I also have to wonder how much of the novel's weirdness is due to the source material, namely, Frank Wallace's Neo-Tech, and how much is due to the author's particular obsessions.  It's not weird enough in the right way even to be unintentionally funny.  Definitely not worth buying.	2001-04-01
US	50905336	RUZJQC8P25PKO	0471198129	570406470	BuckyWorks: Buckminster Fuller's Ideas for Today	Books	3	48	57	N	N	When do we declare victory in The Industrial Revolution?	Buckminster Fuller has fascinated me since my teens because of his borderline science-fictional ideas and his quest to use technology to provide for 100% of humanity -- which unfortunately is a moving target during an era of population growth.  Baldwin's book doesn't quite satisfy my curiosity about the current state of Fuller's posthumous work, since he gives me the impression that it's stuck somewhere back in the post-Hippie 1970's.  I certainly hope that the field has advanced further along than the dumbed-down &quot;Whole Earth Catalogs&quot; version which celebrated geodesic model kits and &quot;sustainable&quot; (i.e., voluntarily hardship-inducing) technologies.<br />What I would like to see in a proper review of Fuller's legacy  includes (a) mathematicians' assessment of his synergetic geometry, which is more radically anti-Euclidean than non-Euclidean in that it rejects the whole Greek paradigm of &quot;abstraction&quot; from physical objects; (b) economists' assessment of his argument that with proper resource use and rational design decisions we really could take care of 100% of humanity; (c) a discussion of why, if Fuller's goal is indeed practical, after 250 years of industrial and technological progress we've devolved from objectively useful work -- making and moving stuff on farms, in mines and in factories -- into to a situation where we hold absurd, time-wasting and nonproductive &quot;jobs&quot; in &quot;services&quot; (which sociologist Daniel Bell characterized as postindustrial &quot;games between persons&quot;), while billions of other humans don't even have the basics for a materially decent life; (d) and why this goal isn't on the agenda of any major politician or other world-recognized and respected figure.<br />In other words, I find implicit in Fuller's work the question, &quot;When do we declare victory in the Industrial Revolution, and go on our long-overdue vacation that futurists used to call 'The Postindustrial Leisure Society'?&quot;Although Baldwin supplied me with some useful information on &quot;Buckminster Fuller's Ideas for Today,&quot; it wasn't quite what I wanted.	2000-12-16
US	50905336	R1AX0GOINACU6M	0805716386	62905348	Atlas Shrugged: Manifesto of the Mind	Books	4	4	13	N	N	Interesting analysis of a flawed novel.	Mimi Reisel Gladstein concludes from the whole cult phenomenon surrounding Ayn Rand's _Atlas Shrugged_ that the novel must have some deep literary merit. But that is not necessarily the case. The cultish enthusiasm says more about the frustrations and repressed desires of adolescent and young adult Americans, of both sexes, than it does about Rand's particular abilities. I recall reading in Jeff Walker's book, _The Ayn Rand Cult_, that Rand figured out how to project into her novels the common adolescent feeling that you are being misappreciated and exploited by your \\"objective\\" inferiors, and meant for better things. _Atlas Shrugged_, frankly, isn't all that good as literature, though it does hold its own when compared with other productions of popular culture with cult followings among the young, like the novels of Robert A. Heinlein, for example. Rand's magnum opus acts more as a kind of literary Rorschach Test than anything else.<br />Gladstein is on target when she discusses the genre-crossing aspects of _Atlas Shrugged_. Is it dystopian fiction, science fiction, a detective novel, a feminist-flavored romance? All of the above, it seems, though Gladstein doesn't persuade me that Rand consciously borrowed from Arthurian romance as well. The feminist and female-romantic elements of the novel were never emphasized all that much by Rand's \\"orthodox\\" followers, but Gladstein does make the case that Rand pioneered a new kind of strong, independent female character -- Dagny Taggart -- who holds her own in a man's world and doesn't need a man to make her life complete, though finding her ideal lover in John Galt certainly helps. In the 1950's such an idea was radical, but because many fictional female characters these days are \\"Xenafied,\\" Dagny Taggart's prototypical role has been obscured. Perhaps the miniseries version of _Atlas Shrugged_ due out sometime next year will give Rand the credit in this one area she deserves.<br />Still, I found some flaws in Gladstein'sexposition of Rand's make-believe world. Gladstein fails to explore _Atlas Shrugged's_ unsubtle family-hating subtext: All of the major characters are alienated from immediate relatives as if that were a good thing. Even after Dagny makes an emotional connection with her hapless sister-in-law Cherryl, she displays no emotional response to Cherryl's suicide. The question of Hank Rearden's paternity never comes up, nor whether he and his wastrel brother Philip even share the same father. (If not, that could in itself explain the hostility between the two!) At the end of the novel, the strikers plan to leave their Rocky Mountain stronghold and rebuild an America where young people can look towards the future with hope -- but because the heroes don't have children, and apparently don't plan to, given the shortage of worthy females for them, you have to wonder where these youngsters are going to come from. (Because Dagny never seems to need contraception, despite having sex with three of the novel's heroes, she must be infertile.)<br />Perhaps the creepiest aspect of all in the novel, which Gladstein seems oblivious to despite her feminist sensibilities, is how John Galt's behavior towards Dagny throughout most of the story resembles love-obsessional stalking. In the real world, a guy in his late 30's who is still a virgin, abandons a well-paying technological career so he can hold a menial job on a railroad, and obsesses over and surveils the railroad's attractive female Vice President (even going so far as to sabotage her business deals), would be considered potentially threatening. (Call Gavin de Becker!) I don't know if many women fantasize about falling in love with their stalkers, but this is an aspect of _Atlas Shrugged_ I don't quite understand. <br />Nonetheless, Gladstein has written yet another contribution to Rand studies that I found worth the money, despite its limitations and brevity.	2000-11-17
US	50905336	RZ7MP1PQM19L4	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	4	28	41	N	N	The &quot;Roswell Incident&quot; of ancient times?	Freethinkers familiar with the literature of the Mythical Jesus Christ Thesis will recognize in this book an argument first presented by our philosophical kindred in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries, only updated with new information coming from the Nag Hammadi documents and archaeological discoveries.  (Refer to the book, _An Anthology of Atheism and Rationalism_, by Gordon Stein, for a sampling of this argument from a century ago.)<br />Today the case against the Jesus story being historical is even stronger.  The Gospels are internally contradictory and historically and geographically incoherent.  How these feeble writings got turned into a &quot;New Testament&quot; inspires even less confidence, considering all of the equally (im)plausible writings that were rejected by the various Church councils during the canonization process.  And with the growth of a scientific understanding of reality the case for &quot;miracles&quot; has totally collapsed.<br />So the theory that Jesus started out as an esoteric mythological figure in a Greco-Jewish mystery religion makes a lot more sense than the received story of Christian origins.  Too bad the authors didn't go all the way in their analysis of how an allegedly deep &quot;spirituality&quot; for an educated elite devolved into the degenerate mass &quot;spirituality&quot; of Orthodox Christianity.  If I were writing such a book, I would go farther and point out that it's futile to seek some &quot;supernatural&quot; being as a solution to your problems.  Indeed, the Greek philosopher Epicurus and his followers presented a powerful secular critique of, and alternative to, the whole ancient religious paradigm, but the authors failed to consider it in their discussion of pagan wisdom and religiosity.<br />The mythological processes surrounding the crash of a Project Mogul scientific balloon near Roswell, New Mexico, in 1947, provides a recent model of how an event can be totally misconstrued and become the basis of a whole false belief system.  Similarly, a misunderstanding of the Jesus Mysteries myth led ignorant, uncritical people to believe that Jesus was a recent historical figure who actually performed the supernatural stunts attributed to him in the myth.  The Resurrection was the Roswell Incident of its time.<br />I recommend this book for the essential value of its argument, but not for its soft treatment of whether there is any &quot;god&quot; out there to find.	2000-10-25
US	50905336	R1Y4OHU94A1ESL	031287216X	507991744	Venus	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Yet another &quot;Hero's Journey&quot;?	Ben Bova's novels are workmanlike and usually worth reading.  He knows the  tricks of the novel-writing trade and manages to make the science seem at  least plausible, if not strictly accurate.  But you have to wonder if he  and other science-fiction writers can do better than retell the  &quot;Hero's Journey&quot; over and over again to adolescent male readers  (who form the bulk of SF readership), especially the variation about the  angry young man who discovers his true paternity.  (&quot;Oh, so that jerk  who claimed to be my father was lying to me all along!&quot;  Is that a  common male fantasy?)  I'd like to see more science fiction aimed at  &quot;adults,&quot; as currently defined.<br />What redeems this novel in my  opinion is that Bova assumes that in the near future rejuvenation, radical  life extension, cloning and revival from cryonic suspension all become  successful and socially acceptable practices.  This apparently reflects  Bova's hopes for his personal future, since he published a nonfiction book  titled _Immortality_ a couple years ago about the prospects for conquering  aging and death.  Unfortunately Bova hasn't thought through all the  implications of this &quot;immortalist&quot; scenario, since his old,  life-extended characters don't seem to have aged well in terms of judgment,  emotional stability and what we call &quot;wisdom.&quot;  A society making  such progress in conquering aging and death should likewise be making  progress in improving people's mental health.  Otherwise, if we get to the  point where rejuvenated old people with such unhealthy grudges and  obsessions ever attain a lot of irresponsible power, we are all likely to  suffer from their folly.<br />Nonetheless, Bova has figured out a lot of what  I have long foreseen about the future, and I look forward to reading more  of his new novels.	2000-09-07
US	50905336	R19WWLSGANBYAY	034540856X	685150972	The Collapsium	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Entertaining retread of science fiction cliches.	Let's, see, in _The Collapsium_ we have two mad scientists -- one malevolent, the other merely socially retarded -- vying for the affections  of the Queen of the Solar System.  In their final confrontation each one  pulls out his super-weapons, one of them invented on the spot, to foil each  other's advanced technologies.  Oh, and the fate of both the sun and the  human race are at stake.  <br />Haven't we seen SCORES of stories like that  already?<br />Still, I found myself entertained, despite my observation that  if you've read a couple dozen science fiction novels, you've pretty much  read them all.  I liked McCarthy's description of how the characters deal  with the existence of multiple copies of themselves made possible with  their matter-faxing technology, and how said gadget keeps them  &quot;immorbid,&quot; that is, no longer vulnerable to disease and the  programmed deterioration we call aging.  And his description of the protean  &quot;wellstone&quot; technology just barely sounds plausible, since as I  recall from my college chemistry, the chemical properties of matter depend  entirely on what the outermost electrons are doing.  By manipulating the  quantum states of electrons using advanced silicon chips, you could  conceivably have a programmable sort of matter like wellstone that can  assume the chemical characteristics of most physically possible solids, if  not the physically impossible ones McCarthy alludes to.  <br />Despite the  recycling of very old science-fictional ideas, this novel is worth a read,  though I recommend waiting for the paperback.	2000-08-29
US	50905336	R2I08AWSW39ZCZ	0071343059	439803125	The Future Factor: The Five Forces Transforming Our Lives and Shaping Human Destiny	Books	4	12	16	N	Y	A good introduction to Transhumanist &amp; Extropian thinking.	Michael Zey has written a effective primer for what in other contexts  would be considered Transhumanist or Extropian thinking about the human  prospect, without calling it by those terms.  Since his book adds several  neologisms to our discussion about life in the future -- Expansionary  thinking, dominionization, species coalescence, biogenesis, cybergenesis,  Russian Cosmism and the Humaniverse, for example -- perhaps he felt that  throwing in some other terms would overload the reader not already familiar  with the large and growing literature (mostly now on the Web) about  Transhumanist philosophy.<br />Zey is particularly concerned about maintaining  and enhancing human individuality when confronted with possibly quite  invasive new technologies.  Hence his criticisms of scientifically  plausible notions that we are going to merge into some Borg-like  &quot;global brain&quot; and nonsense of that sort.  He's similarly  critical of thinkers in the Transhumanist/Extropian camp, like Hans Moravec  and Ray Kurzweil, who foresee the time when humans  become subordinated to  advanced artificial intelligences in the coming decades, pointing out that  such scenarios are the flip-side of radical environmentalist and  Neo-Luddite proposals to subordinate humans to other species or to the  mystical &quot;Gaia.&quot;  No, Zey's primary focus is on the long-term  welfare of individual humans, including their radical life extension, as we  &quot;dominionize&quot; more and more of the universe for our own purposes,  not those of other entities.<br />I can't give this book the highest rating,  however, because Zey mixes his generally good analysis up with some  questionable, if not controversial, ideas from physics, such as non-Big  Bang cosmologies, a version of the Anthropic Principle and his theory that  quantum nonlocality will keep human minds basically thinking in the same  way no matter how much we diverge across space-time.  Still, for people  wanting to know what Transhumanism is all about, this is a good place to  start.	2000-08-15
