US	50905801	R1L4H1G9C97IMP	0448438208	447852861	Pig Latin--Not Just for Pigs! #14 (Dragon Slayers' Academy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Is-thay Is-say A-ay Ood-gay Ead-ray!	Wiglaf is a young man with twelve brothers who was only too glad to be signed up in the Dragon Slayers' Academy.  It meant he would get his own room and plenty to eat!  The down side is that sooner or later he's going to have to learn to kill dragons, and killing isn't something he's looking forward to.  Not that he hasn't killed a dragon, of course.  He just did it with knock-knock jokes instead of a sword.  He and his other friends, including his pet pig who only speaks in Pig Latin (Ig-pay Atin-Lay, to those of you who speak it), trek off to Erica's father's palace for a weekend vacation.  Only when they reach the palace, they find the king is sick with the pox and the people are threatening revolt!  It's up to Wiglaf and his friends to save the day.  They call Zelnoc the Wizard in to help, but he messes up his magic spell and ends up making the king speak only in Ig-pay Atin-lay, which makes no one--including the queen--very happy.  Things take a decided turn for the worse when Wiglaf's pet pig ends up in hot water in the chef's kitchen!<br /><br />Kate McMullan is the author of dozens of books.  In addition to the Dragon Slayers' Academy book, she's also written Myth-O-Mania, the Fluffy series, and several stand-alones involving mythology and history.<br /><br />The Dragon Slayers' Academy books are a delight to read.  Fast, funny, and full of wordplay, they capture a young reader's interest and imagination from the beginning and hang onto it till the end.  The problems facing Wiglaf and his friends in this book can easily be seen by the more clever young readers, and that rewards their cleverness, bringing a double pleasure to the reading.<br /><br />These books are definitely for kids who want to read Harry Potter or any of the other doorstopper fantasy series out there but who can't manage that many pages or a sustained effort that demanding.  McMullan has created a world and characters that are fun to drop in on and catch up on their stories.  Best of all, these books can be read to beginning readers because the language is easy to understand audibly and even they can learn to enter worlds of fun and fantasy with their imaginations.all, these books can be read to beginning readers because the language is easy to understand audibly and even they can learn to enter worlds of fun and fantasy with their imaginations.	2005-09-17
US	50905801	RUY7ROWP4G69F	159315237X	447056092	Creepers	Books	5	60	70	N	N	Something's In The Dark!	Frank Balenger claims to be a journalist interested in the urban art of \\"creepers\\", people who break-and-enter into old, abandoned buildings to see what they can see.  Operating under the same constraints as professional cavers and with much of the same equipment, \\"creepers\\" invade an abandoned structure with the intent of taking pictures and leaving only footprints to mark their passage.  Only the building Frank and his five new collegues invade is the Paragon Hotel, a luxury experience designed and built by a hemophiliac trapped within his own world that wanted to experience as much of the outside world as he could.  Frank's lie about being a journalist is only the first of several that fall apart during the eight hours of hell and horror waiting for the \\"creepers\\".<br /><br />David Morrell is known around the world for creating the character John Rambo.  Author of over 30 novels, several of them feature or television movies, Morrell used to be an English professor that turned professional thriller writer.  Many claim with his creation of Rambo that he invented the modern male action adventure novel.  He writes from experience, from the literary field as well as hands-on training in hostage negotiation, evasive driving, firearms, and combat maneuvers.<br /><br />The novel is a slam-bang adrenaline rush to the finish line that knocks the reader for a loop every time the plot seems clear.  With simple, cutting prose, Morrell introduces readers to the urban art of \\"creeping\\", a mysterious millionaire who built a hotel to satisfy his own cravings, and more twists and turns in character relationships than a toboggan ride down an Olympic run.  The information comes quickly and sparsely, just sips that go down when needed and never interfere with the ticking clock the author sets up in the first chapter.<br /><br />Unfortunately, some of the other reviews give too much away.  This is simply one of those novels impossible to talk too much about without spoiling so much.<br /><br />CREEPERS is a white-knuckled adventure of a read.  Easily understandable, engrossing, and ennervating, CREEPERS is not written for the reader who simply wants to while away a few minutes there.  The plot, the characters, and the breakneck action will nail a reader to a chair until the ride is over and the last surprise is out of the box.uch. <br /> <br />CREEPERS is a white-knuckled adventure of a read.  Easily understandable, engrossing, and ennervating, CREEPERS is not written for the reader who simply wants to while away a few minutes there.  The plot, the characters, and the breakneck action will nail a reader to a chair until the ride is over and the last surprise is out of the box.	2005-09-10
US	50905801	R1TQ3E711QXS0M	068987779X	203231737	The Recruit (Cherub)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Adolescent Agents	James Choke isn't a typical 11-year old.  His mom is probably the fattest mom he's ever seen, and she's a top-flight black market dealer to boot.  Sure, he can get anybody in school anything they want for half off, but he can't escape his mom's looming shadow.  In the space of one day, though, his luck turns incredibly sour:  he's kicked out of school for fighting a girl, gets his butt kicked by the girl's brother, has to deal with his sister's dad who's around for another handout, and his mother dies from drinking while on medication.  While in a depressing children's home, he's recruited for a spy agency that's so secret no one even knows what the initials stand for.  After getting a hold on his life, choosing to go the way of the spy, and undergoing a grueling 100-day course, he's sent off to infiltrate a hippie community that's planning a violent demonstration.  In the middle of that, he meets the girl of his dreams whose father is a cop that doesn't like him.<br /><br />Robert Muchamore is, according to the author information, a private investigator working in London.  The CHERUB series, four books so far, are making their way from Great Britain to the United States.<br /><br />James Choke is a great character whose appeal fluctuates between being a colassal screw-up with out-of-control emotions and a kid just trying to survive who cares deeply about his little sister.  He's just clever enough to get himself out of life-threatening situations, but then to get himself constantly in hot water with the authority figures at the spy school.  Young readers will root for him and empathize with his problems because, spy work aside, they're not so very far from those of most adolescents.<br /><br />There is a small warning with this book.  The language may be more explicit than some parents are comfortable with, pushing the book definitely into the teen arena, but featuring a 12-year old hero (he has a birthday during the course of the novel).  Also, his reasoning seems to be on par with a fifteen or sixteen-year old.<br /><br />THE RECRUIT sets up the series nicely.  Lots of action, lots of character, and plenty of spy background.  A timeline dossier is also included, showing the author has thought about the special MI-5 department he's developed.  Fans of Alex Rider will probably enjoy these books.  There's more dialogue, but the situations are a little more edgy and adult.teen or sixteen-year old.    THE RECRUIT sets up the series nicely.  Lots of action, lots of character, and plenty of spy background.  A timeline dossier is also included, showing the author has thought about the special MI-5 department he's developed.  Fans of Alex Rider will probably enjoy these books.  There's more dialogue, but the situations are a little more edgy and adult.	2005-09-07
US	50905801	R1Q8FFRO6BAX5O	0451411757	551320873	Midnight Rain	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Chills & Thrills	Phoebe Rain is a reluctant heroine at best.  Everything she's done in her life has been the result of trying to live up to someone else's ideals of what she should do with her life.  From her early years, though, she's been torn between science and the lure of telling fortunes with Tarot cards.  Then she met and married Michael, a rich and powerful attorney who proceeded to make her life a living hell.  She barely escaped with her life.  Later, after Michael tracked her down, he ended up killing two kids at a school where Phoebe taught before she was able to wrest the gun away and shoot him.  She barely survived injuries that crippled her.  Even with Michael in a psychiatric hospital, a mental and physical vegetable, Phoebe hasn't felt safe.  She's kept her life small, giving up teaching to make a threadbare existence as a fortune teller over a telephone hotline.  Then, one night, Michael calls and tells her he's coming for her.  Next door to Phoebe, Dr. Alan McKerrie is struggling to get over the loss of his young daughter.  He's cut himself off from the world, just putting in one day after another, seeking desperately for a reason to keep trying.  One day, the ghost of his daughter appears to him and Phoebe.  Chick, the daughter, wants Phoebe to tell Alan to get on with his life, but to do that, Alan must help save Phoebe from Michael.  Are help and murderous intent reaching from beyond the grave?<br /><br />Holly Lisle is a noted fantasy author who has since crossed over to romantic suspense.  This is the first of two novels so far.  While she continues to work in the fantasy field, she's obviously taking great strides in the romantic suspense market.<br /><br />The book delivers nail-biting intensity as the storyline weaves delicately back and forth between Phoebe and Alan.  Each has strengths and weaknesses that alternately make them complement each other, then give them every reason to stay apart.  The reasons Phoebe and Alan find to do what each of them does are suspenseful as well as realistic.  This is what Dean Koontz delivered in his early years.<br /><br />Although the novel reads quickly, especially toward the end, some of the middle parts will need patience.  But the investment of time is well worth the effort.<br /><br />Holly Lisle is going to be a romantic suspense author to read and watch.  She's already made a definite mark in fantasy, but with MIDNIGHT RAIN, she's striking gold in her newly chosen venue.  Equal parts thriller, supernatural, and romance, MIDNIGHT RAIN is a great beach or weekend read where the whole book can be simply consumed.oes are suspenseful as well as realistic.  This is what Dean Koontz delivered in his early years. <br /> <br />Although the novel reads quickly, especially toward the end, some of the middle parts will need patience.  But the investment of time is well worth the effort. <br /> <br />Holly Lisle is going to be a romantic suspense author to read and watch.  She's already made a definite mark in fantasy, but with MIDNIGHT RAIN, she's striking gold in her newly chosen venue.  Equal parts thriller, supernatural, and romance, MIDNIGHT RAIN is a great beach or weekend read where the whole book can be simply consumed.	2005-08-10
US	50905801	R11V8YPH4UEB12	0743496183	661637809	Star Trek: New Frontier: Stone and Anvil	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Hero Born	Mackenzie Calhoun isn't Starfleet's typical captain, nor did he spring from a pampered background.  On his homeworld, he was a warlord at age 20, a man who led an almost conquered people to rebellion and eventual victory with cunning and courage.  In STONE AND ANVIL, Peter David takes the readers on a whirlwind trip that exposes Calhoun's beginnings, his four years at Starfleet Academy, and his captaincy.  After a crewman aboard his wife's ship is killed by another crewman, Calhoun shoulders the harsh burden of finding out what truly happened.  That trail leads back to secrets about his homeworld, his own past, and a change in his present and future.  Janos, an incredible creature and now one with a human intelligence and Starfleet training, hangs in the balance, his life forfeit if he truly is the murderer everyone believes him to be.<br /><br />Peter David writes in the Star Trek universe, several product lines as well as the New Frontier line he created, fantasy novels, and hundreds of comic books for DC and Marvel.  His Sir Apropos fantasy novels are well-received, his run on HULK and SUPERGIRL unsurpassed, and movie novelizations of FANTASTIC FOUR and other lead new fans to him all the time.<br /><br />STONE AND ANVIL is a lightning-paced read with a lot of backstory and deep characterization.  Told on two time tracks, the present involving the murder and Mackenzie Calhoun's Starfleet Academy days, the novel ties both up in a blistering climax that proves one can't have been told without the other.  For sheer phaser-in-your-face, can't-put-it-down-till-you've-finished-it, the novel is a guilty pleasure.  Maybe your life won't be changed as a result, but you'll be glad you spent the few hours it takes to read it.<br /><br />Although the book is a great read on its own, chances are that only true Star Trek fans and space opera buffs will want to pick it up.  There's no cutting-edge SF here or introduction of scientific thinking, but it's a good one to blast through over a weekend or on a plane flight.through over a weekend or on a plane flight.	2005-08-10
US	50905801	R1AMBS42SOBXB1	0743277198	86157417	Crusader's Cross: A Dave Robicheaux Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Haunting Past	When he was a young man, Dave Robicheaux encountered a brave young woman named Ida Durbin.  Dave and his brother Jimmie were young and drunk and swam out to a rock only to be surrounded by a couple of sharks while the sun was going down.  Ida arrived with a raft to save them and sparked Jimmie's interest.  Unfortuately, Ida had a secret life as a prostitute and Jimmie ended up wanting to take her away from that.  Instead, on the day that she and Jimmie are to go to Mexico together to escape, Ida never arrives.  All indications are that she met with foul play and that has haunted Dave and Jimmie since that time.<br /><br />However, as with all stories told by James Lee Burke, that is merely the beginning.  In the present, still grieving for his lost wife Bootsie and suffering empty-nest syndrom with Alafair away at college, Dave is confroted with a chance to find out what truly happened to Ida Durbin all those years ago.  In Burke's Louisiana, everyone has secrets and they all spill out in a loose jumble.  Dave's puzzle is to put them together while maintaining his own precarious hold on his life.  His efforts quickly put him into the sights of crooked cops and hitmen, and draw the attention of one of Iberia Parrish's golden sons, Valetine Chalons, who is a television reporter that quickly brings everything he can to bear on destroying Dave's credibility.  A serial killer is also loose in the Bayou country.  Dave reassumes his job as a deputy sheriff to chase the serial killer, but his true agenda lies in what happened to Ida Durbin all those years ago.  The way is tangled, and Dave has snakes of his own to face while chasing a truth no one wants uncovered.<br /><br />James Lee Burke needs no introduction to his many fans.  For the uninitiated, though, CRUSADER'S CROSS is an excellent place to jump on.  Dave Robicheaux is a complicated man, one that cannot live in the present because his past constantly remains with him and his chance at a future is always at risk.  Burke has written several novels about Robicheaux and lawyer hero Billy Bob Holland as well as stand-alone books.<br /><br />As always in a Burke book, the prose is lyrical and majestic.  The images conjured up in a sentence or two paint entire canvases in the mind.  The people in the book are solidly rendered, filled with grace and guilt and good and evil.  No one in a Burke novel is truly ever a hero or a villain.  Every novel Burke pens centers around revelations, and CRUSADER'S CROSS certainly does that.  Robicheaux's complicated relationship with Clete Purcell is at its finest in this book.  The pain that Dave carries over the loss of his wife and the absence of his daughter are palpable.  But it is the other characters, Valentine and Raphael and Honoria Chalons that glitter and fascinate.  Secrets have been buried in the swamps for decades, and now it's time for them to see the light of day.<br /><br />James Lee Burke has written a truly awesome book in CRUSADER'S CROSS.  Although he is chasing a serial killer to a degree, it's his depiction of the South and the history and the people that live there that keep drawing readers back.  Fans of Robert B. Parker or Robert Crais or Joe Lansdale who have never read Burke will definitely want to pick this one up.k.  Burke has written several novels about Robicheaux and lawyer hero Billy Bob Holland as well as stand-alone books. <br /> <br />As always in a Burke book, the prose is lyrical and majestic.  The images conjured up in a sentence or two paint entire canvases in the mind.  The people in the book are solidly rendered, filled with grace and guilt and good and evil.  No one in a Burke novel is truly ever a hero or a villain.  Every novel Burke pens centers around revelations, and CRUSADER'S CROSS certainly does that.  Robicheaux's complicated relationship with Clete Purcell is at its finest in this book.  The pain that Dave carries over the loss of his wife and the absence of his daughter are palpable.  But it is the other characters, Valentine and Raphael and Honoria Chalons that glitter and fascinate.  Secrets have been buried in the swamps for decades, and now it's time for them to see the light of day. <br /> <br />James Lee Burke has written a truly awesome book in CRUSADER'S CROSS.  Although he is chasing a serial killer to a degree, it's his depiction of the South and the history and the people that live there that keep drawing readers back.  Fans of Robert B. Parker or Robert Crais or Joe Lansdale who have never read Burke will definitely want to pick this one up.	2005-07-16
US	50905801	R289PXSL8JAVDN	0425204014	293925583	The War of the Worlds Murder	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Beyond a Shadow of Doubt	What if, on the night of Orson Welles' production of \\"The War of the Worlds\\", the young actor was accused of murdering one of the many mistresses he had?  And if the only man that stood between Welles and a certain arrest for murder was Walter B. Gibson, the mesmerizing reconteur of THE SHADOW?  Given that Halloween night of 1938 in which the force of radio was recognized across the nation by morning as a background, Max Allan Collins weaves an intricate story of Welles' life pre-Hollywood, the Golden Age of radio, and a neat little murder mystery with a twist.<br /><br />Of course, Max Allan Collins is an old hand at creating mysterious puzzles.  Author of dozens of books, most of them mysteries and several others focusing on the Good Girl Art of Gil Elvgren and the pulps, Collins has written the award-winning ROAD TO PERDITION, which became a movie starring Tom Hanks, several novels based on the CSI television franchise, and seveal novels about his own award-winning detective, Nate Heller.  He has written five other \\"disaster\\" mysteries, all featuring real-life events and authors.<br /><br />THE WAR OF THE WORLDS MURDER is a fantastic little tale.  As with all of Collins' novels, he devotes time to laying out the disaster as well as the backgrounds of the real people he uses.  In this case, Collins brings actor/writer/director Orson Welles and author Walter B. Gibson (who wrote the Shadow novels under the house name Maxwell Grant) to center stage.  The first half of the novel is a fun romp that brings the reader up to speed on the personalities as well as providing a peek into the world that was Golden Age Radio.  Then he procedes to spin out a neat little mystery that plays out during the hour-long broadcast of \\"The War of the Worlds\\" that sent millions of people into a panic that would forever change the face of radio.  Collins' prose is as readable as ever and full of the spirit of the times.<br /><br />The only drawback, though no fault of Collins', is that the radio broadcast that triggered a night of panic does tend to overshadow the mystery plot.  The reactions of the listeners to Welles' treatment of the H. G. Wells novel dilutes Gibson's own search for a murderer, and more of the tension derives from what is going to happen to Welles as a result of the broadcast than a result of the murdered mistress.<br /><br />THE WAR OF THE WORLD MURDER is a fantastic little gem of a novel.  Part nonfiction, part fiction, the novels escorts the reader to a night of wonderment and a murder that's played out in \\"the theater of the mind\\".  Readers who enjoy this novel may find themselves reaching for books by Leonard Maltin and others on the Golden Age of Radio as well as more of Max Allan Collins' \\"disaster\\" novels.riggered a night of panic does tend to overshadow the mystery plot.  The reactions of the listeners to Welles' treatment of the H. G. Wells novel dilutes Gibson's own search for a murderer, and more of the tension derives from what is going to happen to Welles as a result of the broadcast than a result of the murdered mistress.    THE WAR OF THE WORLD MURDER is a fantastic little gem of a novel.  Part nonfiction, part fiction, the novels escorts the reader to a night of wonderment and a murder that's played out in \\"the theater of the mind\\".  Readers who enjoy this novel may find themselves reaching for books by Leonard Maltin and others on the Golden Age of Radio as well as more of Max Allan Collins' \\"disaster\\" novels.	2005-07-11
US	50905801	R2NHONTJJ9JUBQ	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Dueling Identities	Sunny Randle, Robert B. Parker's irrepressible female private eye, returns in SHRINK RAP.  Still struggling with her own issues regarding her marriage and divorce to Richie Burke, who has family ties to organized crime, Sunny finds herself hired as a bodyguard.  As Sunny takes care to point out in the novel, she's not a bodyguard by trade.  She can do the job, but she prefers detecting.  However, Melanie Joan Hall, a best-selling romantic suspense writer, draws Sunny's interest.  Melanie Joan's ex-husband, John Melvin, has a career as a psychotherapist, but he also has a lot of issues he's carrying around.  While bodyguarding Melanie Hall on a ten-day whirlwind book signing event, Melvin puts in an appearance, upsetting Melanie Joan horribly.  At another signing event, Melvin makes threats to Sunny.  At a third, Melvin wipes blood across the front windows of the bookstore.  Knowing that the ex-husband is a full-blown stalker and that getting rid of him in any way that will involve Melanie Joan testifying against him and setting herself up to be a media event is impossible, Sunny sets herself to uncovering the full extent of the darkness that Melvin harbors.  Under her married name, Sunny signs on as a client of Melvin's, while at the same time putting pressure on the man as Sunny Randle, PI.  In the middle of balancing the dual identities, Sunny also finds herself opening up to the man more than she wants to, trying to heal herself over her own confusion about her relationship issues.<br />Perennial NEW YORK TIMES bestseller, Robert B. Parker has written two previous novels about Sunny Randle, including PERISH TWICE and FAMILY HONOR.  Parker is best known for his series of detective novels about wisecracking tough guy, Spenser.  A third series that Parker writes involves Jesse Stone, the police chief of a small town, Paradise, Massachusetts.  He's also written two novels featuring Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe.  His Spenser books served as inspiration for the ABC television series SPENSER:  FOR HIRE starring Robert Urich, and a handful of A & E movies featuring Urich as well as Joe Mantegna.<br />SHRINK RAP is Robert B. Parker near the top of his game.  The plot is engaging enough, though perhaps a little light, but the dialogue sings.  He has one of the best ears in the business for real people and the way they really talk.  At the heart of all his novels, Parker continually delves into the relationship dynamic between couples and with self.  SHRINK RAP definitely deals with those issues.  Besides the rescue of Melanie Joan, Sunny also deals with her own rescue, involving a number of scenes with her ex-husband, friend, and family.<br />Despite the ease of reading and the feeling of camaraderie with the main character, the plot lags a little.  The final scenes of the book play out well, but the build-up was almost understated.  John Melvin came across as a bad guy, but the reader never got the chance to really see him as a character.  Also almost invisible except as threats were his two partners-in-crime.  Parker books usually have more violence in them than what is presented here, as well as more of a cat-and-mouse game.<br />Sunny Randle's latest book stands as a good beach read, or as single-sitting read that will keep the reader turning pages until the final card has been played.  Fans of Kinsey Milhone, Carlotta Carlyle and V. I. Warshawski may well find a new tough, female detective to read if they try this series.C television series SPENSER:  FOR HIRE starring Robert Urich, and a handful of A & E movies featuring Urich as well as Joe Mantegna.<br />SHRINK RAP is Robert B. Parker near the top of his game.  The plot is engaging enough, though perhaps a little light, but the dialogue sings.  He has one of the best ears in the business for real people and the way they really talk.  At the heart of all his novels, Parker continually delves into the relationship dynamic between couples and with self.  SHRINK RAP definitely deals with those issues.  Besides the rescue of Melanie Joan, Sunny also deals with her own rescue, involving a number of scenes with her ex-husband, friend, and family.<br />Despite the ease of reading and the feeling of camaraderie with the main character, the plot lags a little.  The final scenes of the book play out well, but the build-up was almost understated.  John Melvin came across as a bad guy, but the reader never got the chance to really see him as a character.  Also almost invisible except as threats were his two partners-in-crime.  Parker books usually have more violence in them than what is presented here, as well as more of a cat-and-mouse game.<br />Sunny Randle's latest book stands as a good beach read, or as single-sitting read that will keep the reader turning pages until the final card has been played.  Fans of Kinsey Milhone, Carlotta Carlyle and V. I. Warshawski may well find a new tough, female detective to read if they try this series.	2003-06-17
US	50905801	R4K503LYJKOC8	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Murder in the Mansion	Ethan Truman works as head of security for Channing Manheim, Hollywood's greatest personality in decades.  Every movie the Face, as the media calls him, stars in turns to gold as soon as it hits the theaters.  The Face's private life, however, leaves a lot to be desired.  A year after his marriage to supermodel Fredericka Nielander, the Face was divorced and had gotten custody of their son, Aelfric, who is affectionately called Fric by Ethan and the large staff at Palazzo Rospo where the Face lives.  Ten years old now, Fric lives largely on his own, with only the staff to care for him.  He refers to his father as Ghost Dad and his mother as Nominal Mom; Fric doesn't have a good home life.  Too bad he's just become #1 on a psychopathic killer's hit list.  Only Ethan Truman, struggling through the death of his wife and his best friend, and a ghost of a chance stand between Fric and certain death.<br />Dean Koontz is actually a dean of suspense novels.  He's written THE WATCHERS, PHANTOMS, WHISPERS, BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON, LIGHTNING, FEAR NOTHING, and dozens of others.  Every book he's written for years has hit the NEW YORK TIMES bestseller lists.  Several of his books have been made into movies, but the books have always been stronger and capable of leaving a more lasting imprint.  His work mixes strong elements of suspense, horror, and science fiction.<br />THE FACE offers an exciting storyline.  Ethan Truman stands out as a good hero, a man who's been hurt by life and questions his ability to simply go on.  Fric represents so much of today's children of successful, semi-successful, and busy parents merely trying to survive-the sarcastic and self-deprecating sense of humor, and the sharp loneliness.  Cut wholly from anarchy, Corky Laputa spills across the pages like a spreading stain, going deeper and wider, cutting into the reader's ease of mind because he seems so real.  Some of Koontz's best devices are the puzzles and clues that he spreads throughout his novels.  There's always something to guess at, to attempt to figure out.  The opening page gifts the readers with a love of mysteries with a clue that is definitely attention getting:  an apple sewn together with black threads.  Once the apple is cut open, Ethan finds an eyeball inside.  Another facet of suspense writing that Koontz excels in is the ticking clock.  As Laputa's intended kidnapping comes to light, the plot stays wound tight, and the course of the action spreads only over two days before Christmas.<br />Though the plot runs like a Swiss watch in timing, Koontz's actual work in the book runs a little long.  His writing is elegant and beautiful, his metaphors and similes very descriptive.  However, that slavish devotion to the written word sometimes creates stumbling places in the novel.  The words sound good when read aloud, which sometimes seems necessary to get at the true meaning, but jar a reader trying desperately to get on with the story to find out what happens next.  Also, when the puzzles do come together, they seem somewhat contrived (though not the apple one, which was truly clever) and Ethan's understanding of them comes at the proper eleventh hour to the story mechanics.  Hazard Yancy, Ethan's interesting homicide detective friend and one-time partner, also kind of fades out toward the end even though he's got a colossal build-up at the beginning.<br />THE FACE definitely deserves the lazy days of summer.  The story is driving enough, and the prose interesting enough, to spend hours with at the beach or curled up in a favorite reading spot.  Readers wanting the combination of suspense, mystery, and deep characters will want to pick this book up.  Koontz's prose is sharper than most, and his plots are always layers deep..  There's always something to guess at, to attempt to figure out.  The opening page gifts the readers with a love of mysteries with a clue that is definitely attention getting:  an apple sewn together with black threads.  Once the apple is cut open, Ethan finds an eyeball inside.  Another facet of suspense writing that Koontz excels in is the ticking clock.  As Laputa's intended kidnapping comes to light, the plot stays wound tight, and the course of the action spreads only over two days before Christmas.<br />Though the plot runs like a Swiss watch in timing, Koontz's actual work in the book runs a little long.  His writing is elegant and beautiful, his metaphors and similes very descriptive.  However, that slavish devotion to the written word sometimes creates stumbling places in the novel.  The words sound good when read aloud, which sometimes seems necessary to get at the true meaning, but jar a reader trying desperately to get on with the story to find out what happens next.  Also, when the puzzles do come together, they seem somewhat contrived (though not the apple one, which was truly clever) and Ethan's understanding of them comes at the proper eleventh hour to the story mechanics.  Hazard Yancy, Ethan's interesting homicide detective friend and one-time partner, also kind of fades out toward the end even though he's got a colossal build-up at the beginning.<br />THE FACE definitely deserves the lazy days of summer.  The story is driving enough, and the prose interesting enough, to spend hours with at the beach or curled up in a favorite reading spot.  Readers wanting the combination of suspense, mystery, and deep characters will want to pick this book up.  Koontz's prose is sharper than most, and his plots are always layers deep.	2003-06-16
US	50905801	R1Q86GZHIMHFY2	0743442520	706444543	Six Easy Pieces: Easy Rawlins Stories	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Down in the Mean Streets	Easy Rawlins leads a complicated and complex life as a black quasi-detective in 1964 Los Angeles.  Orphaned at eight years old, befriended by Raymond Alexander, known as Mouse and who is one of the most cold-blooded killing machines ever born, Easy grew up in Houston's Fifth Ward and has trouble staying out of the mean streets where he became a man.  He's fought to change his life of violence, against himself and against others who constantly drag him back into that world where death is quick and harsh, and respect only comes with a stack of greenbacks or at the end of a gun.  In SIX EASY PIECES, Easy actually takes on seven cases filled with death and mayhem, the kind of life he's always known, while striving to hold his personal life together and making certain none of that violence spills over onto the family he's struggled so hard to carve out of the tapestry of tragedy that he has never been far from.  \\"Smoke\\" begins with a phone call that tells him Mouse, the friend whose death he believes he caused and whom he has mourned for the past year, is still alive.  Bonnie Shay, the woman he has come to love and to trust, also has to leave the family for her stewardess job for a prolonged junket in Europe, leaving Easy restless until an arsonist strikes at Sojourner Truth Junior High School.  As head custodian, Easy has to deal with the reports and the clean up at the school, but as a man of the streets whose best friend's death has left permanent guilt in him and whose woman has left, Easy strides into the shadows of the city after the man who started the fire.  Easy follows up the lead he got regarding Mouse and ends up looking for a repentant prostitute then her killer in the church she attended in \\"Crimson Stain.\\"  In \\"Silver Lining\\" Easy revisits some old friends who are being blackmailed by a kidnapping, bringing Easy into direct line of fire from an old enemy.  Bonnie's loyalty to Easy comes into question during her return from Europe in \\"Lavender\\" when flowers arrive at Easy's home before his woman does.  EttaMae Harris, Mouse's woman, calls in a favor from Easy while he's dealing with his own pain over Bonnie, asking him to help a young man that has fallen for a young woman hell-bent on death and destruction.  Saul Lynx, a private detective Easy has worked with in the past, pulls Easy into a case to clear a man accused of murder in \\"Gator Green.\\"  Family again becomes the central issue in \\"Gray-Eyed Death\\" as more of Easy's past surfaces, mixing in an armored car robbery and a frame.  In \\"Amber Gate,\\" Easy goes looking for the murderer of a young prostitute to clear a friend of a friend, and makes a major turning point in his life.<br />Walter Mosley's Easy Rawlins series has spawned seven novels to date.  Six of those novels, DEVIL IN A BLUE DRESS, A RED DEATH, WHITE BUTTERFLY, BROWN BETTY, LITTLE YELLOW DOG, and BAD BOY BRAWLY BROWN are primarily straight mystery-suspense novels.  GONE FISHIN' is an exploration of Easy's early days and the violence that gave birth to the man he started becoming.  Mosley has also written two volumes of short stories about ex-con Socrates Fortlow, ALWAYS OUTNUMBERED, ALWAYS OUTGUNNED and WALKIN' THE DOG.  The author also writes science fiction in FUTURELAND and BLUE LIGHT.  FEARLESS JONES introduced another detective duo that so far has only shown up in one novel.  RL'S DREAM was a straight novel about the last days of a bluesman.  Mosley has also authored nonfiction that includes WORKIN' ON THE CHAIN GANG and BLACK GENIUS.<br />Fans of Easy Rawlins will fall right into this collection of novellas because the resonance of Easy's life and the tapestry of his person history-including his failings as well as his successes-holds true.  Long-time readers will get the feeling he or she is revisiting a well-known friend in the middle of several crisis points that those friends have seen coming.  If this book is a reader's first exposure to Easy Rawlins and the violent world of pre-Civil RightsLos Angeles of 1964, the introduction to the man, his family, his views of life (and yes, there is more than one) and the violent and mean streets he walks down comes in simple gulps that never impede the action or the emotions.  Easy Rawlins is a real person in these pages, full of hope, fear, love and hate.  He holds the burning brand of self-knowledge and knowledge of the world, while at the same time being confused by twists and turns he can almost see coming, and being hurt by the unfairness of life that he knows is there but can never truly accept.  Mosley's execution of the stories is flawless, pulling the readers into Easy's world and life, into his struggles with outsiders as well as himself.  The dialogue is sharp and true, of the street, of years of growing and learning and accepting, of the stations in life that men and women of all colors sometimes get trapped in, and of the trade-off they make with hope and dreams just to find a means to survive.<br />SIX EASY PIECES is an excellent volume of crime fiction, of period noir, and of a man who is still yet growing and changing, still building himself while at the same time being broken and battered.  New readers who enjoy the strong male characters of Robert B. Parker and James Lee Burke will find another author and voice to love and respect in these pages, and old readers will be visiting with a true friend they can trust and enjoy.Los Angeles of 1964, the introduction to the man, his family, his views of life (and yes, there is more than one) and the violent and mean streets he walks down comes in simple gulps that never impede the action or the emotions.  Easy Rawlins is a real person in these pages, full of hope, fear, love and hate.  He holds the burning brand of self-knowledge and knowledge of the world, while at the same time being confused by twists and turns he can almost see coming, and being hurt by the unfairness of life that he knows is there but can never truly accept.  Mosley's execution of the stories is flawless, pulling the readers into Easy's world and life, into his struggles with outsiders as well as himself.  The dialogue is sharp and true, of the street, of years of growing and learning and accepting, of the stations in life that men and women of all colors sometimes get trapped in, and of the trade-off they make with hope and dreams just to find a means to survive.<br />SIX EASY PIECES is an excellent volume of crime fiction, of period noir, and of a man who is still yet growing and changing, still building himself while at the same time being broken and battered.  New readers who enjoy the strong male characters of Robert B. Parker and James Lee Burke will find another author and voice to love and respect in these pages, and old readers will be visiting with a true friend they can trust and enjoy.	2003-01-13
US	50905801	R383R73XG60FUN	0425188949	100687390	Relentless	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Frontier Trackdown	Marshal Lane Morgan keeps the peace in Skylar, Colorado, even when those efforts send him into a headlong confrontation with Paul Webley, the most powerful man in town.  Trent Webley got drunk and shot up the town, almost shooting Lane in the process.  As a result, Lane feels he has no choice but to bring the young man up on charges.  However, Lane also goes out of his way to ensure that Trent Webley is only going to have to lay out a few months in jail.  The sentence is actually much reduced from what it could be.  Paul Webley refuses to accept that and tries to buy Lane off.  When that doesn't work, Paul concentrates on the marshal's wife, Callie.  Three years ago when Callie came to Skylar and began to teach, she had a past that she didn't speak of, and every so often Lane would see a haunted look in her eyes.  He never asked about that past and just contented himself with loving her.  But that past catches up to the marshal and his pretty schoolmarm wife with a vengeance as Paul Webley puts the pressure on.  David Staunton, a visitor to Skylar, turns out to be a womanizer, a con artist, and a gambler.  Years ago, though, Staunton was also Callie Morgan's husband.  While they were together, Staunton swindled a woman out of a lot of cash and used Callie to do it.  When the law came after them both, Callie fled, and a warrant for her arrest followed.  All these years, she's been a fugitive.  And now the marshal has to find out who really killed Staunton before his wife gets hanged for it.<br />Ed Gorman is a prolific writer of mysteries, westerns, thrillers, and horror.  His Sam McCain series, about a soft-spoken guy who is a part-time lawyer and part-time private eye, has garnered a lot of critical acclaim and a wide audience.  He's also edited several anthologies.  Fans of mysteries will want to track down copies of his Jack Dwyer series, and fans of westerns will be interested in the three books he wrote about Leo Guild, a bounty hunter filled with guilt and confusion.<br />In all the books that Gorman writes, readers can depend on frantic pacing, true-to-the-ear dialogue, suspense, and a depth of character that is not immediately noticeable but seeps into the tale with incredible ease.  In RELENTLESS, the author presents Lane Morgan's love for his wife Callie in straightforward terms, but also with the confusion that such a situation would present for a man whose world has just been turned upside down.  Gorman fills Morgan world with people and places, as well a history of Skylar, Colorado and Morgan's own personal backstory.  The book is a perfect page-turner, one that will keep the reader engrossed and zipping right along.<br />Western readers who like a bit of mystery mixed in with a fairly true picture of the Old West will enjoy RELENTLESS.  Gorman's novel will also satisfy the shoot-`em-up crowd as the build-up leads to a climatic finish.  But there are twists all along the way, prices that must be paid by all the characters.  RELENTLESS earns its name as the writer spurs his story on through the finish gate.fusion.<br />In all the books that Gorman writes, readers can depend on frantic pacing, true-to-the-ear dialogue, suspense, and a depth of character that is not immediately noticeable but seeps into the tale with incredible ease.  In RELENTLESS, the author presents Lane Morgan's love for his wife Callie in straightforward terms, but also with the confusion that such a situation would present for a man whose world has just been turned upside down.  Gorman fills Morgan world with people and places, as well a history of Skylar, Colorado and Morgan's own personal backstory.  The book is a perfect page-turner, one that will keep the reader engrossed and zipping right along.<br />Western readers who like a bit of mystery mixed in with a fairly true picture of the Old West will enjoy RELENTLESS.  Gorman's novel will also satisfy the shoot-`em-up crowd as the build-up leads to a climatic finish.  But there are twists all along the way, prices that must be paid by all the characters.  RELENTLESS earns its name as the writer spurs his story on through the finish gate.	2003-01-08
US	50905801	R2L01Y551IT7I4	076530189X	595040786	Black Powder, White Smoke	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gunmen On The Run	Honey Boutrille owns the House of Rest for Weary Boatmen, a whorehouse in New Orleans, and plays part-time piano when his regular man is out.  His life is changed when Winston Claude Saint-Maarten assaults one of the working girls, cuts up her face, and takes her hostage.  Honey waits the man out and kills Saint-Maarten stone-cold dead, leaving himself nothing to do but run for his life because black men cant kill white men without their own lives becoming forfeit even in wild New Orleans in 1881.  Emerson Emerson, nicknamed Twice because he was named that way, is an owlhoot who has been bad since the day he was born.  At the same time Honey was gunning down Saint-Maarten, Twice has a train robbery go south on him near Sacramento, California, leaving the safecracker dead and him no choice but to go on the lam.  In San Francisco, Twice runs afoul of the local Chinese Tong, which promptly puts a price on his head and forced him on the run one more time.  Both of these men, one black and one white, live life on the run for the next few months, neither of them having any luck between them as they are pursued by lawmen and journalism in an incredibly-shrinking Old West.  At the same time, Ernest Valerian Torbert, a journalist in Chicago, Illinois, is offered the job of tracking down Honey Boutrille for his life story.  Argus Fleet, the publisher and owner of Jupiter Press, is convinced that such a story would be a best-seller, and even has the title picked out:  THE BLACKSNAKE OF NEW ORLEANS, OR THE DEVIL OF THE DELTA, A TRUE TALE.  Longing for adventure, Torbert takes the assignment.  In the meantimeas Honeys bad luck holds true and he leaves a trail of dead bodies behind him of men who were bad or tried to collect on the bounty on his head, and Twice follows through on a string of robberies and killings that emblazon his name on newspapers throughout the Westvaudeville promoter Casper Box seizes on an idea.  Always in search of a new venue, Box hears about Twice Emerson and starts putting together plans to feature the villain as a performer, not hesitating at all when fate puts Honey in his hands as well.  But Boxs double-bill of Old West entertainment featuring two notorious criminals and man-killers isnt going to be easy because the difference between Honey and Twice are lethal.<br />Loren Estleman is an award-winning Western writer.  Hes also won awards for his Amos Walker private eye novels set in Detroit, Michigan.  In addition to these two fields, Estleman is also recognized as a worthy writer of historical fiction, as is evidenced by BLACK POWDER, WHITE SMOKE.  Other works in the Western field include the Page Murdock series, including CITY OF WIDOWS, THE HIGH ROCKS, and WHITE DESERT.  His Western novel, THE MASTER EXECUTIONER, won the 2002 Wrangler Award for Outstanding Western Novel.<br />BLACK POWDER, WHITE SMOKE is a fast-paced adventure chockfull of historical lore and Old West myth.  The characters, while larger than life, ring true, as do the events that each man finds himself in.  The dialogue is tight and skilled, moving the plot along and introducing different facets of Honey and Twice in heartbeats.  Torbert and Box are also given great detail, and the different voices can actually be heard in the narrative flow.  The gunplay is excellent, pulling the reader into the thick of the action, while the inner dialogue of each character comes across fresh and deep.  With the different locales made possible by the construction of the novel, as well as the varied subjects covered, Estleman present quite a look at the old West and the men who became legend.  Perhaps Honey Boutrille and Twice Emerson never actually existed, but men who lived the kinds of lives the author reveals did.  Although many readers may wish Estleman had stayed with his two primary characters more, the scenes with Box and Torbert are fascinating in their own right, offering concise histories of place and time and the two professions the men are locked into.<br />Some readers may have to be patient as Estleman weaves his multi-layered tale.  Honey and Twice share the limelight with Box and Torbert.  Many readers may wish that the author had stuck more to the two primary characters in the beginning, but as Torbert and Box grow as characters in their own right, their points of view deepen the story and make the inevitable resolution more compassionate.  And, in a sense, either Torbert or Box could have been Honey or Twice had their own paths not proven a little less rocky.<br />In BLACK POWDER, WHITE SMOKE, Loren Estleman has combined a presentation of violent Old West adventure and historical accuracy.  The story of Honey and Twice offers a great read that will compel its audience to keep turning pages late into the night.ions the men are locked into.<br />Some readers may have to be patient as Estleman weaves his multi-layered tale.  Honey and Twice share the limelight with Box and Torbert.  Many readers may wish that the author had stuck more to the two primary characters in the beginning, but as Torbert and Box grow as characters in their own right, their points of view deepen the story and make the inevitable resolution more compassionate.  And, in a sense, either Torbert or Box could have been Honey or Twice had their own paths not proven a little less rocky.<br />In BLACK POWDER, WHITE SMOKE, Loren Estleman has combined a presentation of violent Old West adventure and historical accuracy.  The story of Honey and Twice offers a great read that will compel its audience to keep turning pages late into the night.	2002-11-28
US	50905801	R1I703S98122C8	0385326041	96507390	Nate the Great and the Big Sniff	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Missing:  Detective Partner!	Nate the Great is a detective and a guy known for being able to find lost things or solve mysteries.  However, in NATE THE GREAT AND THE BIG SNIFF, Nate experiences his most personal mystery of all when Sludge, his dog, detective partner, and best friend, ends up lost in Weinman Brothers, Nate's favorite store.  Since no dogs are allowed in the store, Nate has to leave Sludge outside.  Nate goes inside to buy a gift for Sludge and has to stand in a really long line.  Worried about his doggy partner, Nate goes back to the entrance to check on Sludge and finds that Sludge is gone!<br />Marjorie Weinman Sharmat is the author of over twenty Nate the Great adventures, including NATE THE GREAT STALKS STUPIDWEED, NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG, NATE THE GREAT AND THE HALLOWEEN HUNT, and NATE THE GREAT AND THE MUSHY VALENTINE. She has written dozens of books for young readers. She named Nate the Great after her father. Her books have been named as Children's Choice books and Junior Literary Guild selections, and been picked as Books of the Year by the Library of Congress.<br />NATE THE GREAT AND THE BIG SNIFF is written as a chapter book, something the last few books in the series have changed to.  The change is welcome because the chapters provide brief bits that can be read while on the go, and they all end up with cliffhanger endings that make the young reader want to pick the book up again or the young listener want to sit down and hear more.  As always, the author presents a very real mystery with very real possible solutions before ultimately solving Nate's latest case.  The usual cast of Annie and Fang and Rosamond show up in the story, and Claude puts in an appearance to round out the neighborhood.  The way that all of the group bands together to help Nate find Sludge is really great and heart-warming.  Over the years, Nate has been bothered by these people, or presented hard mysteries by them, and it's good to see that they help him out when he needs it, and that they actually care about Sludge.  When the case is finally solved, Marjorie Weinman Sharmat and Mitchell Sharmat reveal that Sludge is every bit the detective that Nate is.  The full color illustrations by Martha Weston are detailed and expressive.  This is a truly great book for young readers and parents who love to read aloud to pre-readers.<br />Young readers will enjoy the whole Nate the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.nd that they actually care about Sludge.  When the case is finally solved, Marjorie Weinman Sharmat and Mitchell Sharmat reveal that Sludge is every bit the detective that Nate is.  The full color illustrations by Martha Weston are detailed and expressive.  This is a truly great book for young readers and parents who love to read aloud to pre-readers.<br />Young readers will enjoy the whole Nate the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.	2002-11-22
US	50905801	R3TW3R5XWQMN7F	0694520713	83569718	Expedition Whydah: The Story of the World's First Excavation of a Pirate Treasure Ship and the Man Who Found Her	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Treasure Hunter	Barry Clifford discovered the only wrecked pirate ship ever found, then recovered much of the gold, jewels, and silver aboard the vessel as well as important historical artifacts.  As a small boy, Clifford had listened to tales of the pirate ship WHYDAH and its master Black Sam Bellamy told to him by his uncle.  Although he grew into adulthood and became a successful marine salvager, thoughts of the WHYDAH and her ill-fated crew, as well as all the treasure rumored to have gone down aboard her, wouldn't leave Clifford's mind at rest.  For years he assembled information and research regarding the ship's activities, the sailors and captain aboard her, and the loot WHYDAH had seized.  Gradually, as he exhausted all the knowledge that was to be gleaned from histories, journals, and survey maps, Clifford eliminated conflicting data and re-interpreted facts and figures until he was certain he knew where the ship had gone down, taking the captain and most of the crew with her.  Armed with his facts and figures, Clifford journeyed to Denver and sold shares in the venture to raise a quarter million dollars investment capital to start searching for the wreck.  Within months, he had located the first of the treasure, and the real fighting began with the state agency that tried to take a lion's share of the recovered assets.<br />Barry Clifford was a marine salvager by trade and became an expert in piracy by interest.  In addition to two non-fiction novels, EXPEDITION WHYDAH and THE LOST FLEET:  THE DISCOVERY OF A SUNKEN ARMADA FROM THE GOLDEN AGE OF PIRACY, Clifford also established the Whydah Learning Center in Provincetown, Massachusetts.  He's gleaned a lot of support from historical preservation societies and boards.<br />Although Clifford's narration of his own book in audio form comes across as less polished than probably could have been done by a professional voice, the dramatic tension involved in the story keeps the listener intent on the tale.  In fact, the laconic, laidback way Clifford narrates his story sounds like a guy sitting across the table spinning his story over a cup of coffee.  The choice Clifford made to overlap his own findings with the history of the pirates aboard WHYDAH drives the dramatic tension of both stories.  Separating those events by putting them in different sections of the book would have diluted both, and made them too episodic.  Clifford was making history as he was uncovering it.  Even in the abridged form offered in the audiobook, Clifford conveys tons of material relating to the work involved in claiming, finding, and bringing up a significant historical find-especially one laden with gold, silver, and jewels.  The history of piracy and the pirates on board WHYDAH when it went down are spooned into the narrative in just the right amounts to keep revealing new details while still leaving the listener for more.<br />EXPEDITION WHYDAH is an excellent audiobook to listen to in the car.  The bits and pieces that are presented episodically lend themselves to the start and stop of a workday drive.  In addition, Clifford's details on the expedition and piracy in general bring a lot of intensity to armchair explorers.laidback way Clifford narrates his story sounds like a guy sitting across the table spinning his story over a cup of coffee.  The choice Clifford made to overlap his own findings with the history of the pirates aboard WHYDAH drives the dramatic tension of both stories.  Separating those events by putting them in different sections of the book would have diluted both, and made them too episodic.  Clifford was making history as he was uncovering it.  Even in the abridged form offered in the audiobook, Clifford conveys tons of material relating to the work involved in claiming, finding, and bringing up a significant historical find-especially one laden with gold, silver, and jewels.  The history of piracy and the pirates on board WHYDAH when it went down are spooned into the narrative in just the right amounts to keep revealing new details while still leaving the listener for more.<br />EXPEDITION WHYDAH is an excellent audiobook to listen to in the car.  The bits and pieces that are presented episodically lend themselves to the start and stop of a workday drive.  In addition, Clifford's details on the expedition and piracy in general bring a lot of intensity to armchair explorers.	2002-11-22
US	50905801	RKPSVY0RKAUE2	0553487728	86446091	Wings of War (Justice League)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Dynamic Detectives	When the leaders of the warring nations of Luristan and Kaznia agree to meet in at the World Assembly in Metropolis, the Justice League goes on full alert.  Superman heads up the group that includes Batman, Green Lantern, Flash, Hawkgirl, Martian Manhunter, and Wonder Woman.  Bane, the international mercenary powered by the super-soldier drug Venom, heads up a crew designed to tear the peace talks apart and plunge the nations back into war.  While the rest of the Justice Leaguers hold back Bane's minions and ensure that the peace talks are left intact, Batman and Hawkgirl utilize their detective skills to track Bane down and discover what's really at stake in the attacks.  However, Batman hasn't slept in two days and isn't at his best, and his lack of performance is clouding the relationship he has with Hawkgirl.<br />Michael Jan Friedman has also written JUSTICE LEAGUE:  IN DARKEST NIGHT, the second book in the series based on the Cartoon Network hit television show.  In addition to the comic- and cartoon-based novels, Friedman has written more than 160 comic books.  The author has also contributed to Star Trek Starfleet Year One, Star Trek the Original Series, Star Trek The Next Generation, Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Star Trek Voyager, as well as several mini-series within the franchise. He also wrote the only Star Trek Next Generation/X-Men crossover. Other novels spawned from comic book properties include a Fantastic Four adventure: THE REDEMPTION OF THE SILVER SURFER, Superman novels, and X-Men novels. He's also a contributor to the Wishbone adventures, displaying a versatility and wide interest.<br />WINGS OF WAR is a fast-paced and exciting read.  With the quick cuts back and forth among the characters the novel feels very much like one of the cartoon episodes.  Readers who sit down with this novel will probably read straight through the adventure, or long to get back to the book during those time it has to be put aside.  The author does a really good job of showcasing each character a little, and doing a lot of character interplay between Batman and Hawkgirl.  Plenty of action and superpowers fill the pages, building exciting images in a reader's head, but the mystery that is presented for Batman and Hawkgirl is well done, allowing each of them to step forward and be the lead detective at one time or another.  Each is allowed his and her expertise.<br />Fans of the comic book series or cartoon series will definitely want to pick this book up.  In addition to showcasing Batman and Hawkgirl, the story is fun and quick, just the way an episode plays out.  Parents will want to pick this book up for reluctant readers who enjoy the television show.  Friedman's style and delivery are highly visual and those reluctant readers will have no problem at all imagining the adventures that the super-heroes share.showcasing each character a little, and doing a lot of character interplay between Batman and Hawkgirl.  Plenty of action and superpowers fill the pages, building exciting images in a reader's head, but the mystery that is presented for Batman and Hawkgirl is well done, allowing each of them to step forward and be the lead detective at one time or another.  Each is allowed his and her expertise.<br />Fans of the comic book series or cartoon series will definitely want to pick this book up.  In addition to showcasing Batman and Hawkgirl, the story is fun and quick, just the way an episode plays out.  Parents will want to pick this book up for reluctant readers who enjoy the television show.  Friedman's style and delivery are highly visual and those reluctant readers will have no problem at all imagining the adventures that the super-heroes share.	2002-11-21
US	50905801	RJVNM9C7TUO2A	0698113535	590136296	Commander Toad and the Planet of the Grapes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Trouble Comes In A Bunch (Of Grapes!)	Looking for a new planet to picnic on, Commander Toad and the crew of STAR WARTS descend to the planet and immediately discover that everywhere they step giant purple grapes sprout up.  In no time at all, Commander Toad, Doc Peeper, Lieutenant Lily, and Mr. Hop are swallowed up by the giant purple grapes and are telling some of the worst grape jokes in the universe!  And it looks like there's no way out!<br />Jane Yolen is an award-winning children's book author as well as a writer of adult science fiction and fantasy.  She's earned the Caldecott-given for the most distinguished picture book, the Nebula-given to the most distinguished writing in the field of science fiction and fantasy, the Golden Kite-given by the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators, and the World Fantasy Award.  She's written seven Commander Toad Adventures, including COMMANDER TOAD AND THE LONG VOYAGE HOME, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE PLANET OF THE GRAPES, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES, and COMMANDER TOAD AND THE BIG BLACK HOLE.  With dozens of books written in many genres, Jane Yolen is a great author to introduce to young readers.<br />COMMANDER TOAD AND THE PLANET OF THE GRAPES is an absolute blast to read out loud to young readers or pre-readers.  The short, descriptive sentences push the story along at a frantic and fun pace, and the color and black and white illustrations are great fun for a young audience.<br />With all the interest young kids today have in space-based programs on Cartoon Network, books like the Commander Toad series will bridge the gap between movies, video games, and the written word.  Jane Yolen is an exemplary entertainer for young readers and parents willing to endorse the habit of reading.	2002-11-20
US	50905801	R1SUP1PFLGIX9M	0833527711	816464415	Nate The Great And The Boring Beach Bag (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Nate the Great Detective Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mystery At The Beach	Trying to take a day off and bask at the beach just doesn't work for Nate the Great.  As a detective, his detecting services are always on call.  This time Oliver, Nate's next door neighbor and the world's greatest pest, has come up with a new mystery.  Oliver has lost his beach bag.  The beach bag contains Oliver's clothes and shoes, which Oliver will need.  Nate signs on for the case at once, and the search begins-with Oliver following closely after, of course.  During the course of his investigation, he runs across the usual suspects:  Annie and her dog, Fang, and Rosamond, who is running a seaside restaurant.<br />Marjorie Weinman Sharmat is the author of over twenty Nate the Great adventures, including NATE THE GREAT STALKS STUPIDWEED, NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG, NATE THE GREAT AND THE HALLOWEEN HUNT, and NATE THE GREAT AND THE MUSHY VALENTINE. She has written dozens of books for young readers. She named Nate the Great after her father. Her books have been named as Children's Choice books and Junior Literary Guild selections, and been picked as Books of the Year by the Library of Congress.<br />NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG offers more than the usual high standard of entertainment readers have come to expect from Marjorie Weinman Sharmat.  Filled with the wit and humor of any other Nate the Great book, this particular entry also involves rudimentary mapping skills and an introduction to logical thinking.  Also, long-time fans will really get the humor in Rosamond's Restaurant, where the sandwiches actually come packed with sand!  The first-person voice of Nate the Great is an absolute delight to read on its own, but even better to share with a young reader just beginning to discover the worlds and adventures that lie between the covers of a book.  Marc Simont's artwork, especially since it is out of the urban locale that the Nate the Great adventures usually favor, is eye-catching and colorful.<br />Young readers will enjoy the whole Nate the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.	2002-11-20
US	50905801	ROMB1O4KRFI2K	0743448197	470106474	Captain's Peril (Star Trek)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Captain Kirk and the Temple of Bajor	Captains James T. Kirk and Jean-Luc Picard choose to go on a working vacation on Bajor.  The vacation centers on an archeological dig taking place in the ancient sunken city of Bar'trila, which had been lost for millennia and only recently rediscovered.  Thirty years ago, under Cardassian occupation, the Valor Ocean had been tapped to flood the valley.  Plummeting from outer space in environmentally controlled jumpsuits equipped with force field, Kirk and Picard fall to Bajor like comets, literally burning through the planet's atmosphere.  To Kirk, this is all great fun.  The problem is, the suits were supplied by Quark, who is known to cut a corner or two.  Kirk's suit develops a problem and while dealing with that problem, he remembers an early encounter he had at the beginning of his career as a starship captain new to Enterprise and knew to the Vulcan way of thinking posed by Spock.  Surviving the fall to Bajor, despite the fact that Kirk tried to use the almost suicidal K'Thale Deployment, invented by a Klingon who became a one-armed Klingon as a result, both captains hike toward the dig site only to find that one of the archeological party has been murdered.  Even as Picard and Kirk go into action to access the problem and begin damage control, the dig team lets both captains know that they and the Federation are unwelcome on the site.  Shortly after that, Picard becomes a casualty.  Kirk continues pressing the investigation, solving the problems in the present that tie into Bajoran religious history, and re-evaluating his past encounter while getting to know Spock.<br />William Shatner, with co-authors Judith & Garfield Reeves-Stevens, has written two other trilogies expanding the life and conquests of Captain James Tiberius Kirk of Enterprise, a role that Shatner breathed life into during the original Star Trek series and the movies that followed.  The Reeves-Stevens collaborations as well as individual works outside the Trek universe have included stand-alone science fiction novels (SHIFTER, NIGHTFEEDERS, NIGHTEYES), horror novels (BLOODSHIFT), and military thrillers (ICEFIRE, QUICKSILVER), and numerous scripts for television series and animated series.<br />CAPTAIN'S PERIL offers a slam-bang action beginning that is bound to score big with the crossover fans of science fiction and extreme sports.  The intro of the planetdive comes directly after an intriguing Cardassian plot to bury the ancient city of Bar'trila, which had only recently been rediscovered.  From there, the story springboards in the early days aboard Enterprise when the Spock/Kirk relationship was still quite volatile because of misunderstandings on both sides.  The action, narrative flow, and comradely conversation between Kirk and Picard are well done, making the pages turn quick and clean as the reader is drawn into the mystery of the murdered archeologist at Bar'trila and the ancient Bajoran legend of the Five Brothers.<br />Unfortunately, the mystery and the legend elements that are set up so well in the course of the story are solved so simplistically that readers may feel a tad disappointed.  The build-up was great, and the solutions were neat, but the journey getting there was lacking and over much too soon.  The Spock/Kirk early days had a nice feel to them, but none of those scenes showed anything that longtime readers haven't seen before.<br />Overall, CAPTAIN'S PERIL is a good quick read, recommended to hardcore Trek fans and readers who like to visit those universes on regular excursions.ne science fiction novels (SHIFTER, NIGHTFEEDERS, NIGHTEYES), horror novels (BLOODSHIFT), and military thrillers (ICEFIRE, QUICKSILVER), and numerous scripts for television series and animated series.<br />CAPTAIN'S PERIL offers a slam-bang action beginning that is bound to score big with the crossover fans of science fiction and extreme sports.  The intro of the planetdive comes directly after an intriguing Cardassian plot to bury the ancient city of Bar'trila, which had only recently been rediscovered.  From there, the story springboards in the early days aboard Enterprise when the Spock/Kirk relationship was still quite volatile because of misunderstandings on both sides.  The action, narrative flow, and comradely conversation between Kirk and Picard are well done, making the pages turn quick and clean as the reader is drawn into the mystery of the murdered archeologist at Bar'trila and the ancient Bajoran legend of the Five Brothers.<br />Unfortunately, the mystery and the legend elements that are set up so well in the course of the story are solved so simplistically that readers may feel a tad disappointed.  The build-up was great, and the solutions were neat, but the journey getting there was lacking and over much too soon.  The Spock/Kirk early days had a nice feel to them, but none of those scenes showed anything that longtime readers haven't seen before.<br />Overall, CAPTAIN'S PERIL is a good quick read, recommended to hardcore Trek fans and readers who like to visit those universes on regular excursions.	2002-10-29
US	50905801	R3IWJ0BM256YRJ	0375806547	807436116	Batman Beyond: Hear No Evil (Pictureback(R))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Batman Beyond To The Rescue	Terry McGinnis patrols Gotham City as Batman.  Drawn to an attack on a building, he flies down and sees Shriek.  While they fight, Batman has to save a young deaf boy from falling rock.  Batman tracks Shriek down, but their fight again involves young Tommy.  Part of what makes Shriek evil is his own deafness, and Batman knows that.<br />Scott Peterson has written and edited several Batman stories for DC Comics.  He's also written another Batman Beyond book for young readers:  BATMAN BEYOND: NEW HERO IN TOWN.<br />BATMAN BEYOND: HEAR NO EVIL is written like a comic book.  The use of panels and word balloons draw an early reader's eye on, and the layout makes the story fun to read out loud.  The art is really well done, showing lots of action and color.<br />This book is recommended for young fans of the BATMAN BEYOND cartoon.	2002-10-22
US	50905801	R1H07IBCR1D3LW	0375806547	807436116	Batman Beyond: Hear No Evil (Pictureback(R))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Batman Beyond To The Rescue	Terry McGinnis patrols Gotham City as Batman. Drawn to an attack on a building, he flies down and sees Shriek. While they fight, Batman has to save a young deaf boy from falling rock. Batman tracks Shriek down, but their fight again involves young Tommy. Part of what makes Shriek evil is his own deafness, and Batman knows that.<br />Scott Peterson has written and edited several Batman stories for DC Comics. He's also written another Batman Beyond book for young readers: BATMAN BEYOND: NEW HERO IN TOWN.	2002-10-22
US	50905801	R3HAG0SP6YXA4O	0440463025	401526785	Nate the Great Goes Undercover	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Who Is The Garbage Snatcher?	Nate the Great, the youngest detective to ever deliver tough guy lines, is summoned to his newest case by his next door neighbor, Oliver.  Oliver is something of a pest because he follows people.  It doesn't matter who they are or where they're going, if they catch Oliver's eye he will follow them.  He's followed Nate the Great around on a lot of the cases Nate has been given to find things his friends have lost.  Oliver's problem sets Nate on his first night case as a detective.  Someone is stealing from Oliver's garbage can and dumping the rest all over the place.  Reluctantly, Nate the Great takes the case and is followed by Oliver.  Along the way, Nate finds out what Rosamond's four cats will eat.  It is a very long list, and not at all what Nate needs to know.  Researching the case also leads Nate to the local library to study nocturnal animals.  However, the real culprit who is stealing Oliver's garbage is a major surprise!<br />Marjorie Weinman Sharmat is the author of over twenty Nate the Great adventures, including NATE THE GREAT STALKS STUPIDWEED, NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG, NATE THE GREAT AND THE HALLOWEEN HUNT, and NATE THE GREAT AND THE MUSHY VALENTINE. She has written dozens of books for young readers. She named Nate the Great after her father. Her books have been named as Children's Choice books and Junior Literary Guild selections, and been picked as Books of the Year by the Library of Congress.<br />As usual, Majorie Weinman Sharmat writes a sharp and smartly told tale.  Nate the Great is one of the best fictional heroes to ever come about for young readers and pre-readers.  Reading one of the Nate the Great books to a pre-reader is a fantastic privilege.  The first-person, clipped dialogue is pure pleasure for the reader willing to do \\"voices.\\"  Annie and her dog Fang were absent from this adventure and long-time readers will miss them, but Oliver and Rosamond are there, as well as the usual stumbling blocks Nate encounters.  And pancakes-lots and lots of pancakes.  The author's clues are there, though, and many alert readers will figure out the solution to the garbage-snatching mystery one step ahead of Nate, which is the best place to figure those things out.  Marc Simont's artwork is simple and elegant as always, adding to the enjoyment.<br />Young readers will enjoy the whole Nate the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.kes-lots and lots of pancakes.  The author's clues are there, though, and many alert readers will figure out the solution to the garbage-snatching mystery one step ahead of Nate, which is the best place to figure those things out.  Marc Simont's artwork is simple and elegant as always, adding to the enjoyment.<br />Young readers will enjoy the whole Nate the Great series because the tales are told in a familiar fashion and involve a solid cast of characters that return book after book.  These books are also some of the best to choose for read-alouds to pre-readers or for the last story before bedtime because they can be read in just a few moments.  The Nate the Great mysteries are fun and addictive for both parent and child.	2002-10-11
US	50905801	R28BQHV3WSEC5X	0373272413	432967236	The Way To Yesterday (Silhouette Intimate Moments #1171)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Turning Back the Hands of Time	In a tragic series of events six years ago, Mary Faith O'Rourke lost her husband Daniel and her baby daughter Hope.  For six long years, Mary has tried to pick up the shattered pieces of her life and continue on.  But the days are hollow, the hours empty, and the minutes drag by.  She's dying by inches but unable to let go completely.  Then one day, Mary wanders into a small antique shop, Time After Time, on a street that she hadn't even known existed.  Browsing the shelves inside the shop, Mary finds a small ring that catches her eye.  Inscribed on the inside of the band are the words:  I PROMISE YOU FOREVER.  The words sear into Mary's soul, touching pain she at best only had partially buried.  Mary tries the ring on but finds it gets stuck.  In the next instant she passes out and comes to on that fateful day when she lost her husband and child.  The scene is a recurring nightmare that haunts her nights, stealing sleep.  Reluctantly, she goes along with it.  After all, the nightmare at least offers her the chance of seeing her lost husband and daughter again.  Stunned and hurting, she participates in the tragic events that should be the last minutes of the lives of the two people she most loved in the world.  Only this time when Daniel backs the car out of the drive and is headed into the path of a car speeding from a pursuing police cruiser, Mary cries out to Daniel and manages to get him to stop just in time.  The crash occurs as it did on that day six years ago, but this time her husband and daughter are not consumed in it.  Time has changed.  In a twinkling, Mary is back in the present, but it is a present that holds her husband and daughter in it as well.  However, the change in time that prevented young Hope's death has also put her into a madman's path.  Perhaps Mary changed the past once, but the present that she has stepped into may yet steal her daughter away unless she can figure out the secrets of a serial kidnapper.<br />Sharon Sala is an award-winning author with dozens of books to her credit.  She writes primarily romantic suspense, but every book is from the heart.  Other romantic suspense novels in a similar vein include DARK WATER, SNOWFALL, REMEMBER ME, SWEET BABY, and REUNION.  She also writes romantic suspense under the name Dinah McCall, with titles such as WHITE MOUNTAIN, STORM WARNING, THE RETURN, JACKSON RULE, and CHASE THE MOON.<br />Opening the covers of a Sharon Sala or Dinah McCall novel guarantees a quick, exciting read.  No one handles plot, characterization, and dialogue with a surer hand.  The pacing of the books always stops somewhere just short of frantic, but will keep the reader glued to the pages till the end.  THE WAY TO YESTERDAY proceeds so quickly and with enough twists and turns that the reader will probably read the book all the way through or within a couple sessions.  The fantastical element of the story is quickly introduced (somewhat reminiscent of SOMEWHERE IN TIME and A PORTRAIT OF JENNY), but is gentle rather than intrusive, then the suspense kicks in.  Having the magic and the mystery follow so quickly is akin to being slammed with a boxer's one-two combo.  Mary and Daniel and the problems they face as a couple are believable.  The quick shifts back and forth between the romantic leads as well as the villain yank the reader through the book, constantly upping the stakes and stepping up the pace.  THE WAY TO YESTERDAY is a dynamic read that propels the reader through the adventure and the romance.<br />Readers who love Nora Roberts' romantic suspense, but who have yet to make Sharon Sala's acquaintance will find a great place to start with THE WAY TO YESTERDAY.  Returning Sharon Sala fans will be glad to know another good book is awaiting them on the shelves.g author with dozens of books to her credit.  She writes primarily romantic suspense, but every book is from the heart.  Other romantic suspense novels in a similar vein include DARK WATER, SNOWFALL, REMEMBER ME, SWEET BABY, and REUNION.  She also writes romantic suspense under the name Dinah McCall, with titles such as WHITE MOUNTAIN, STORM WARNING, THE RETURN, JACKSON RULE, and CHASE THE MOON.<br />Opening the covers of a Sharon Sala or Dinah McCall novel guarantees a quick, exciting read.  No one handles plot, characterization, and dialogue with a surer hand.  The pacing of the books always stops somewhere just short of frantic, but will keep the reader glued to the pages till the end.  THE WAY TO YESTERDAY proceeds so quickly and with enough twists and turns that the reader will probably read the book all the way through or within a couple sessions.  The fantastical element of the story is quickly introduced (somewhat reminiscent of SOMEWHERE IN TIME and A PORTRAIT OF JENNY), but is gentle rather than intrusive, then the suspense kicks in.  Having the magic and the mystery follow so quickly is akin to being slammed with a boxer's one-two combo.  Mary and Daniel and the problems they face as a couple are believable.  The quick shifts back and forth between the romantic leads as well as the villain yank the reader through the book, constantly upping the stakes and stepping up the pace.  THE WAY TO YESTERDAY is a dynamic read that propels the reader through the adventure and the romance.<br />Readers who love Nora Roberts' romantic suspense, but who have yet to make Sharon Sala's acquaintance will find a great place to start with THE WAY TO YESTERDAY.  Returning Sharon Sala fans will be glad to know another good book is awaiting them on the shelves.	2002-10-09
US	50905801	RSGL0MQMOSI9R	0698114191	870302229	Commander Toad and the Space Pirates	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Argh, Matey!	Boredom settles over the crew of the space ship STAR WARTS and Commander Toad has to do something quick.  Lieutenant Lily, Mr. Hop, Jake Skyjumper and Doc Peepers are all unhappy.  They've watched all the ship's movies-SPLASH GORDON, THE TOAD WARRIOR, INDIANA FROG AND THE LILY PAD OF DOOM-and read all the ship's books-ROBIN TOAD, THE LIZARD OF OZ, and SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN WARTS-and played a lot of croak-kay, leapfrog, and hopscotch.  There is nothing to do and they're all going a little crazy.  That all changes the day Commander Salamander and his pirate crew arrive.  Commander Salamander boards STAR WARTS and takes everyone captive except for Doc Peepers.  Only a little while after that, Commander Salamander makes Commander Toad Hop the Plank at sword point!  Only Doc Peepers can save the day!<br />Jane Yolen is an award-winning children's book author as well as a writer of adult science fiction and fantasy.  She's earned the Caldecott-given for the most distinguished picture book, the Nebula-given to the most distinguished writing in the field of science fiction and fantasy, the Golden Kite-given by the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators, and the World Fantasy Award.  She's written seven Commander Toad Adventures, including COMMANDER TOAD AND THE LONG VOYAGE HOME, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE PLANET OF THE GRAPES, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES, and COMMANDER TOAD AND THE BIG BLACK HOLE.  With dozens of books written in many genres, Jane Yolen is a great author to introduce to young readers.<br />Fun to read out loud and filled with puns and sight gags really well drawn by Bruce Degen, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES is a blast to share with young or reluctant readers.  The sentences are short and choppy, driving the story on and filling the events with laughs.  The pirate talk, \\"Yo-ho-ho, me slithery-slees!\\" is top-notch and will inspire young readers to quote the lines long after the book is finished-if an adult is willing to read the passages in a properly piratical dramatization.  The solution to the pirates, once revealed, is hilarious and makes perfect sense even to pre-readers who understand story and set-up that comes in narrative repetition.<br />The Commander Toad series, all seven books, is recommended for imaginative young readers who have already been exposed to STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and various other science fiction based television shows and movies.  Jane Yolen is one of the most entertaining authors for young minds out there.assages in a properly piratical dramatization.  The solution to the pirates, once revealed, is hilarious and makes perfect sense even to pre-readers who understand story and set-up that comes in narrative repetition.<br />The Commander Toad series, all seven books, is recommended for imaginative young readers who have already been exposed to STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and various other science fiction based television shows and movies.  Jane Yolen is one of the most entertaining authors for young minds out there.	2002-10-09
US	50905801	R2SFT7SQ8N4WGU	0312874529	871471826	Retribution: A Lew Fonesca Mystery (Lew Fonesca Novels)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Girl On The Run	Five years ago, Lew Fonesca lost his wife Catherine in a terrible auto accident.  The event all but ended his life.  Lost and dead inside, he drove to Sarasota, Florida because there was really no other place to go.  When the car died in front of a Dairy Queen, he stopped.  But he didn't start living again.  Instead, he started building himself a cocoon that isolated him from the rest of the world.  Trained as an investigator for the state's attorney office in Cook County, Fonesca sets up shop as a process server, establishing just enough money to keep a roof over his head and provide the extravagance of buying videotapes of old movies.  Despite his efforts to cut himself off, the world has a way of reaching out to him and dragging him back.  Finding people professionally has a tendency to do that, and Ann Horowitz, his counselor, says that by choosing that line of work he's also choosing to find himself-even if he won't admit it.  Still smarting from a slap from a Bubbles Dreemer, a woman he had to serve a summons to earlier in the day, Fonesca is approached by Marvin Uliaks, a local handyman that Fonesca know because Marvin cleans the bathroom once a week in the complex where he keeps his office.  Marvin hires Fonesca to look for his sister Vera Lynn, who has been missing for over twenty years.  She and her husband disappeared after the suspicious death of another young woman all of them knew.  Some said that the woman jumped through a window and committed suicide; others insisted that Vera Lynn or her husband threw her out.  Marvin doesn't tell Fonesca any of this in the beginning.  At the same time, Flo Zink, one of the small list of friends Fonesca has, calls to let him know Adele, a girl that Fonesca rescued only a few short months ago, has disappeared.  Prior to vanishing, Adele had been working with Conrad Lonsberg, a reclusive award-winning novelist, on her writing.  Flo is currently sixteen-year old Adele's guardian, appointed by the state of Florida.  Sally Porovsky, Fonesca's dating acquaintance, is also Adele's caseworker, so Fonesca ends up caught between Flo and Sally, trying to figure out how to get Adele to come back home.  Fonesca takes up both trails with Ames McKinney, a seventy-five year old maverick cowboy with a penchant for action instead of dialogue and an arsenal large enough to defend a Third World country.  The trail turns bloody from the onset.  While Adele remains in hiding and burning the only copies there are of Conrad Lonsberg's unpublished manuscripts, which are potentially worth millions of dollars, someone begins looking for her, leaving a trail of bodies behind.<br />Prolific mystery writer Stuart Kaminsky currently has four mystery series underway and adds new volumes to each.  He began his writing career in 1977 with A BULLET FOR A STAR, the first Toby Peters mystery.  The Peters mystery series currently has 22 volumes, is set in 1940s Hollywood (Kaminsky was also a film historian and college professor), and always features at least one star of the times that Peters has to help out.  His Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov novels are about a Moscow policeman.  Abe Lieberman is a solid Jewish detective with a pragmatic streak set in Chicago.  He's also written two novels featuring James Garner's signature character, Jim Rockford, from the television show, THE ROCKFORD FILES.<br />Lew Fonesca is a complicated detective.  He's clever and he's steady, but he lacks the central core of ambition that is at the heart of so many fictional characters.  In the first book, Fonesca comes off as perhaps too distant, but Kaminsky corrects for that by telling an engaging tale filled with pathos and rich characters.  The author also moves the tale along at a blistering pace.  In RETRIBUTION, Fonesca is slowly moving closer to being a full person again.  He still has his depression but says that it beats the anxiety that replaces the depression when the depression goes away, which so many readers in today's hecticworld can relate to.  The writing is lucid and tight, moving the story along briskly while taking time to establish scene and character.  The relationship between Ames and Fonesca is really well done and lends itself to Fonesca's character.  Ames is there to provide support in a physical and firepower way, but also to be frank and forthright without waxing philosophical.  Ames is a key figure and easy to grasp, and when he solidifies Fonesca's thinking, it only takes a few words.  Despite Fonesca's best efforts, his life is growing and the world is drawing him back into it.  The mysteries are on the light side, but both are fraught with emotion and a sense of history and family, themes that seem to resonate well within the Lew Fonesca series.<br />Good as the mystery aspects are within the novel, a little more set-up would have been welcome.  Adele's motivation came a little too late in the novel, and neither the reader nor Fonesca seemed to have a fair chance at it.  Also, although the solution to this mystery was hinted at, the clues weren't solidly in place.  Some readers won't like the fact that Fonesca got some of the answers and Kaminsky didn't share them with his audience until he closed the novel.<br />RETRIBUTION is a good read for mystery and private eye readers that like emotional depth and complexity in their tales.  And when it comes to sheer reading enjoyment, a confident hand, and a down-home storytelling style, Stuart Kaminsky is money in the bank every time.world can relate to.  The writing is lucid and tight, moving the story along briskly while taking time to establish scene and character.  The relationship between Ames and Fonesca is really well done and lends itself to Fonesca's character.  Ames is there to provide support in a physical and firepower way, but also to be frank and forthright without waxing philosophical.  Ames is a key figure and easy to grasp, and when he solidifies Fonesca's thinking, it only takes a few words.  Despite Fonesca's best efforts, his life is growing and the world is drawing him back into it.  The mysteries are on the light side, but both are fraught with emotion and a sense of history and family, themes that seem to resonate well within the Lew Fonesca series.<br />Good as the mystery aspects are within the novel, a little more set-up would have been welcome.  Adele's motivation came a little too late in the novel, and neither the reader nor Fonesca seemed to have a fair chance at it.  Also, although the solution to this mystery was hinted at, the clues weren't solidly in place.  Some readers won't like the fact that Fonesca got some of the answers and Kaminsky didn't share them with his audience until he closed the novel.<br />RETRIBUTION is a good read for mystery and private eye readers that like emotional depth and complexity in their tales.  And when it comes to sheer reading enjoyment, a confident hand, and a down-home storytelling style, Stuart Kaminsky is money in the bank every time.	2002-10-04
US	50905801	R3E24P42ZFVB7Q	0698114191	870302229	Commander Toad and the Space Pirates	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Argh, mateys!	Boredom settles over the crew of the space ship STAR WARTS and Commander Toad has to do something quick.  Lieutenant Lily, Mr. Hop, Jake Skyjumper and Doc Peepers are all unhappy.  They've watched all the ship's movies-SPLASH GORDON, THE TOAD WARRIOR, INDIANA FROG AND THE LILY PAD OF DOOM-and read all the ship's books-ROBIN TOAD, THE LIZARD OF OZ, and SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN WARTS-and played a lot of croak-kay, leapfrog, and hopscotch.  There is nothing to do and they're all going a little crazy.  That all changes the day Commander Salamander and his pirate crew arrive.  Commander Salamander boards STAR WARTS and takes everyone captive except for Doc Peepers.  Only a little while after that, Commander Salamander makes Commander Toad Hop the Plank at sword point!  Only Doc Peepers can save the day!<br />Jane Yolen is an award-winning children's book author as well as a writer of adult science fiction and fantasy.  She's earned the Caldecott-given for the most distinguished picture book, the Nebula-given to the most distinguished writing in the field of science fiction and fantasy, the Golden Kite-given by the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators, and the World Fantasy Award.  She's written seven Commander Toad Adventures, including COMMANDER TOAD AND THE LONG VOYAGE HOME, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE PLANET OF THE GRAPES, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES, and COMMANDER TOAD AND THE BIG BLACK HOLE.  With dozens of books written in many genres, Jane Yolen is a great author to introduce to young readers.<br />Fun to read out loud and filled with puns and sight gags really well drawn by Bruce Degen, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES is a blast to share with young or reluctant readers.  The sentences are short and choppy, driving the story on and filling the events with laughs.  The pirate talk, \\"Yo-ho-ho, me slithery-slees!\\" is top-notch and will inspire young readers to quote the lines long after the book is finished-if an adult is willing to read the passages in a properly piratical dramatization.  The solution to the pirates, once revealed, is hilarious and makes perfect sense even to pre-readers who understand story and set-up that comes in narrative repetition.<br />The Commander Toad series, all seven books, is recommended for imaginative young readers who have already been exposed to STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and various other science fiction based television shows and movies.  Jane Yolen is one of the most entertaining authors for young minds out there.	2002-10-01
US	50905801	R3EIM68T6CTH3S	0375806547	807436116	Batman Beyond: Hear No Evil (Pictureback(R))	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Batman Beyond to the Rescue!	Terry McGinnis patrols Gotham City as Batman.  Drawn to an attack on a building, he flies down and sees Shriek.  While they fight, Batman has to save a young deaf boy from falling rock.  Batman tracks Shriek down, but their fight again involves young Tommy.  Part of what makes Shriek evil is his own deafness, and Batman knows that.<br />Scott Peterson has written and edited several Batman stories for DC Comics.  He's also written another Batman Beyond book for young readers:  BATMAN BEYOND: NEW HERO IN TOWN.<br />BATMAN BEYOND: HEAR NO EVIL is written like a comic book.  The use of panels and word balloons draw an early reader's eye on, and the layout makes the story fun to read out loud.  The art is really well done, showing lots of action and color.<br />This book is recommended for young fans of the BATMAN BEYOND cartoon.	2002-10-01
US	50905801	R2FQ5XNHVQDYNJ	0808572881	501148183	Commander Toad And The Intergalactic Spy (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Spy, Spy, Who's Got the Spy?	Commander Toad, the fearless leader of the space ship STAR WARTS, gets a new assignment.  His cousin Tip Toad is Secret Agent 007.  The STAR WARTS crew is supposed to fly to the planet Eden and rescue Tip.  Secret Agent 007 is also in deadly danger.  If the other intergalactic spies on the planet find out who he really is, bad things could happen to Tip Toad.  To make matters worse, Tip is a master of disguise and has to remain in disguise when Commander Toad and his crew try to pick him up.  Commander Toad learns that Tip Toad is wearing a monster disguise, but so is every other alien on the planet!  How will Commander Toad find and rescue his cousin?<br />Jane Yolen is an award-winning children's book author as well as a writer of adult science fiction and fantasy.  She's earned the Caldecott-given for the most distinguished picture book, the Nebula-given to the most distinguished writing in the field of science fiction and fantasy, the Golden Kite-given by the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators, and the World Fantasy Award.  She's written seven Commander Toad Adventures, including COMMANDER TOAD AND THE LONG VOYAGE HOME, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE PLANET OF THE GRAPES, COMMANDER TOAD AND THE SPACE PIRATES, and COMMANDER TOAD AND THE BIG BLACK HOLE.  With dozens of books written in many genres, Jane Yolen is a great author to introduce to young readers.<br />COMMANDER TOAD AND THE INTERGALACTIC SPY is great fun to read to a young reader with a well-developed imagination.  The wordplay sounds great to the ear, and the various puzzles, mysteries and problems the author summons in just a few short words pulls those young listeners in.  Even reading the book as an adult is good entertainment, though better if shared with a child.  The illustrations by Bruce Degen complement the story, showing the various antics and fun emotions of Commander Toad, Mr. Hop, Lieutenant Lily, Jake Skyjumper, and Doc Peepers.<br />The Commander Toad series, all seven books, is recommended for imaginative young readers who have already been exposed to STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and various other science fiction based television shows and movies.  Jane Yolen is one of the most entertaining authors for young minds out there., is recommended for imaginative young readers who have already been exposed to STAR WARS, STAR TREK, and various other science fiction based television shows and movies.  Jane Yolen is one of the most entertaining authors for young minds out there.	2002-10-01
US	50905801	R1QDPGMAGDK04I	0449907252	954649878	Hard Currency	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Cuban Crime and Russian Pursuit	Assigned to investigate a murder in Havana, Cuba by a Russian citizen working with the Cuban government, Moscow Police Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov journeys to the island capital with junior detective Elena Timofeyeva.  Rostnikov's preliminary investigation reveals that there were others who wanted the murdered woman dead.  Following the thin leads that he has, believing that someone has framed Igor Shememkov in an effort to discredit his country, Rostnikov steps into the dangerous underbelly of the city and comes face to face with a religious group that practices African Santeria.  Meanwhile, back in Moscow, police detectives Emil Karpo and Sasha Tkach pursue a serial killer who has killed and mutilated over forty victims.  Karp and Tkach are up against the lack of manpower and a kill zone that spreads across the city.  And in only a short time, the sadistic killer known as Case 341 and as Tahpor marks Karpo for death.<br />Stuart Kaminsky's HARD CURRENCY is the ninth novel of the Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov series.  Other books in the series include DEATH OF A DISSIDENT, BLACK KNIGHT ON RED SQUARE, RED CHAMELEON, THE MAN WHO WALKED LIKE A BEAR, and MURDER ON THE TRANS-SIBERIAN EXPRESS.  In additions, Kaminsky also writes the Toby Peters Hollywood private eye series set in the 1940s during Tinseltown's heyday.  He also does the Abe Lieberman police detective novels set in Chicago, and has written two novels about Lewis Fonesca, a process server in Sarasota, Florida.<br />One of Kaminsky's favorite writers appears to be Ed McBain, the author of the 87th Precinct novels set in Isola, New York, which is basically New York City.  In the Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov novels, Kaminsky weaves the police procedural novel into the Russian tapestry, bringing the readers into close contact with the Moscow police investigators, their families, and their fears.  The cases both sets of detectives undertake are well thought out and expose a lot of culture and beliefs for the reader to think about.  Kaminsky's writing is solid and entertaining, mixing bits of history, geography, and culture in the narrative as well as the dialogue while never losing sight of the chase and the mystery.  Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov and his crew of inspectors all emerge as human and fallible, with touching insights into their lives.<br />As well done and well researched as the novel was, the characters and the cases come across a little too thin with not enough meat.  Rostnikov and his crew go through the motions of the investigations, but too little seems at stake.<br />Fans of Ed McBain's 87th Precinct novels will enjoy the stories Kaminsky has written about Rostnikov and the Moscow police department.  Also, regular readers of Martin Cruz Smith's Arkady Renko series also set in Russia will enjoy an additional look at that country, the politics that drive it, and the everyday life of those who live there.to think about.  Kaminsky's writing is solid and entertaining, mixing bits of history, geography, and culture in the narrative as well as the dialogue while never losing sight of the chase and the mystery.  Inspector Porfiry Rostnikov and his crew of inspectors all emerge as human and fallible, with touching insights into their lives.<br />As well done and well researched as the novel was, the characters and the cases come across a little too thin with not enough meat.  Rostnikov and his crew go through the motions of the investigations, but too little seems at stake.<br />Fans of Ed McBain's 87th Precinct novels will enjoy the stories Kaminsky has written about Rostnikov and the Moscow police department.  Also, regular readers of Martin Cruz Smith's Arkady Renko series also set in Russia will enjoy an additional look at that country, the politics that drive it, and the everyday life of those who live there.	2002-09-30
US	50905801	R1ZXPQI7QXHKKW	0385321147	87081712	Nate the Great and the Monster Mess	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Cinnamon Werewolves!  Yes!	For over twenty adventures now, Nate the Great, the young detective, has searched for his friends' missing things.  He's searched for missing stamps, weeds, boring beach bags, missing pets, musical notes, stolen bases, and even saved the King of Sweden (kinda!).  In all of this, his mom has been quietly supportive.  He leaves a note on the refrigerator to tell her what case he's working on, that he will be back, and that he loves her.  But in NATE THE GREAT AND THE MONSTER MESS, Nate investigates the disappearance of something his mother has lost:  a special cookie recipe.  If Nate and his dog Sludge cannot find the list, Nate will never again enjoy Strawberry Draculas, Chocolate Frankensteins, and Cinnamon Werewolves (his favorite cookie!).  Nate is on the search, and he's reluctantly rounding up the usual suspects.<br />Marjorie Weinman Sharmat is the author of over twenty Nate the Great adventures, including NATE THE GREAT STALKS STUPIDWEED, NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG, NATE THE GREAT AND THE HALLOWEEN HUNT, and NATE THE GREAT AND THE MUSHY VALENTINE.  She has written dozens of books for young readers.  She named Nate the Great after her father.  Her books have been named as Children's Choice books and Junior Literary Guild selections, and been picked as Books of the Year by the Library of Congress.<br />Although most of the Nate the Great series have been written as long stories, this book is one of the series' more recent additions to be broken into chapters.  The short, punchy chapters make great stopping places for reading out loud when traveling, or to dole out as rewards-or for those nights when little listeners don't want to go to bed right away and can ask for \\"just one more chapter.\\"  Reading Nate the Great books out loud is always a treat, especially for the reader willing to do character voices and make the most of the terse, first-person narrative.  In this book, Nate encounters Annie and her dog Fang, Rosamond and her cats, and Oliver who follows everybody-including Nate the Great on this case.  Again, Marjorie Sharmat makes perfect use of logic and clues, building an intriguing mystery that young minds will ferret out and understand.<br />The entire Nate the Great series is recommended to younger readers and parents who love reading to their children that might have tired of (or memorized!) all of the rhyming Dr. Seuss books.  This series makes a great transition to leap from to Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys later.follows everybody-including Nate the Great on this case.  Again, Marjorie Sharmat makes perfect use of logic and clues, building an intriguing mystery that young minds will ferret out and understand.<br />The entire Nate the Great series is recommended to younger readers and parents who love reading to their children that might have tired of (or memorized!) all of the rhyming Dr. Seuss books.  This series makes a great transition to leap from to Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys later.	2002-09-27
US	50905801	RV8719JU57DWL	044046126X	401526785	Nate the Great	Books	5	84	86	N	N	Nate the Great Detective Debut	NATE THE GREAT is the first book in a wonderful series that introduces young readers to the world of mysteries, clues, and pancakes that is Nate the Great.  Shortly after a big breakfast of pancakes, Nate is contacted by his friend Annie.  She has a mystery for him.  The picture, painted in yellow, she did of her dog Fang is missing.  She wants Nate to find the picture for her.  Nate leaves a note for his mother and is in hot pursuit of the clues that will let him know where the missing picture is.  During the course of his investigation, Nate meets Rosamond and her four cats-Super Hex, Big Hex, Little Hex, and Plain Hex, and Annie's little brother Harry.  One of them holds the secret of where the missing picture is.<br />Marjorie Weinman Sharmat is the author of over twenty Nate the Great adventures, including NATE THE GREAT STALKS STUPIDWEED, NATE THE GREAT AND THE BORING BEACH BAG, NATE THE GREAT AND THE HALLOWEEN HUNT, and NATE THE GREAT AND THE MUSHY VALENTINE.  She has written dozens of books for young readers.  She named Nate the Great after her father.  Her books have been named as Children's Choice books and Junior Literary Guild selections, and been picked as Books of the Year by the Library of Congress.  Nate the Great was named after the author's father.<br />As in every Nate the Great book she writes, Marjorie Sharmat plays fairly with young readers (ages 4-8) regarding the mystery and the clues.  Her prose is tight, clean, and concise.  Reading aloud to younger readers is an absolute hoot, and if the reader can manage the tough-guy private eye voice of a Mickey Spillane novel, the effect on young readers is even more mesmerizing.  The illustrations by Marc Simont-the long-time artist of the Nate the Great series-complements the story very well, lending humor, clues, and vibrant color for young eyes.  NATE THE GREAT is the perfect place to join the series because this book sets up all of Nate's world, from the frantic call by friends that have lost something, to the note Nate always leaves his mom on the refrigerator explaining his whereabouts, to the regulars that make up Nate's world.<br />The entire Nate the Great series is recommended to younger readers and parents who love reading to their children that might have tired of (or memorized!) all of the rhyming Dr. Seuss books.  This series makes a great transition to leap from to Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys later.thing, to the note Nate always leaves his mom on the refrigerator explaining his whereabouts, to the regulars that make up Nate's world.<br />The entire Nate the Great series is recommended to younger readers and parents who love reading to their children that might have tired of (or memorized!) all of the rhyming Dr. Seuss books.  This series makes a great transition to leap from to Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys later.	2002-09-27
US	50905801	R2WWD26VWNHIK1	0786710233	277188849	To Catch a Spy: A Toby Peters Mystery	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Private Eye to the Classic Hollywood Stars	On New Year's Day 1944, Hollywood down-and-out private eye Toby Peters catches a case that again embroils him in a rough-and-tumble series of events alongside one of the silver screen's greatest stars.  Cary Grant, already a legend in the making with some of his best work still before him, hires Peters to deliver a package to a clandestine meeting for him.  The package contains, Grant says, five thousand dollars in cash.  The movie star won't tell Peters what's in the package that he's supposed to pick up.  Later, at the meeting, Peters is bushwhacked.  When he regains consciousness, the money is gone, the package is missing, and the man he was supposed to meet dies after leaving a cryptic whispered message behind.  Stumbling through the park, Peters finds a police officer and reports the murder, only when they return to the tree where he left the corpse, the dead man is gone.  Cary Grant keeps Peters on his payroll, and the Hollywood private eye decides to stay because things are not adding up anywhere.  Peters has drawn the unwelcome attention of the Los Angeles Police Department, including his brother Phil, and two agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  With his usual cadre of friends, including Gunther the small person, Jeremy the poet, and Shelly the dentist, Peters struggles to find the truth in the morass of half-truths and outright lies as the body count increases.<br />Stuart Kaminsky is an award-winning mystery novelist with four series currently underway.  TO CATCH A SPY is the twenty-second novel in the long-running Toby Peters series set in 1940s Hollywood.  The titles include A BULLET FOR A STAR (with Errol Flynn), NEVER CROSS A VAMPIRE (with Bela Lugosi), MURDER ON THE YELLOW BRICK ROAD (with Judy Garland), HE DONE HER WRONG (with Mae West), THE DEVIL MET A LADY (with Bette Davis), and THE MAN WHO SHOT LEWIS VANCE (with John Wayne).  Kaminsky's other series include Russian police inspector Porfiry Rostnikov, Chicago police detective Abe Lieberman, and Florida process server Lewis Fonesca.<br />The Toby Peters novels are quick and simple, each a guilty pleasure to read.  TO CATCH A SPY, as in all of the series novels, offers a noirish story with plenty of Hollywood background that knowledgeable film aficionados of the 1940s era will love.  One of the best aspects of this series is the cast of support characters.  Mrs. Plaut is represented in rare form and Cary Grant plays quite nicely off her.  Sheldon Minick, the dentist, is apparently going through some changes that are hinted at even more by the foreshadowing of the next Toby Peters book at the end of this story.  One of the more interesting characters in the book is George Hall (one of several Peters turns up during the course of the novel) a voice actor for radio.  Kaminsky, a former film historian and college professor, is certainly knowledgeable about this period of time and the various forms entertainment took.  Cary Grant comes across much as he does in his movies, but there isn't much added depth.<br />The ending seemed a little rushed, and the prologue that basically takes a scene out of the final few moments of the books seems too forced.  The device got the reader's attention as to why Cary Grant and Toby Peters are running for their lives, but made the ending collapse rather suddenly.  Still, the novel is well worth reading.<br />Stuart Kaminsky's Toby Peters novels are not Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels.  They aren't intended to be.  The Peters novels are meant to be evocative of the 1940s time period and of Hollywood.  Fans of Donald Westlake, Raymond Chandler, and Max Allan Collins' Nate Heller novels will probably enjoy this series a lot, and mystery readers looking for something solid and dependable will want to pick this book up if they've never tried Toby Peters or Stuart Kaminsky.berman, and Florida process server Lewis Fonesca.<br />The Toby Peters novels are quick and simple, each a guilty pleasure to read.  TO CATCH A SPY, as in all of the series novels, offers a noirish story with plenty of Hollywood background that knowledgeable film aficionados of the 1940s era will love.  One of the best aspects of this series is the cast of support characters.  Mrs. Plaut is represented in rare form and Cary Grant plays quite nicely off her.  Sheldon Minick, the dentist, is apparently going through some changes that are hinted at even more by the foreshadowing of the next Toby Peters book at the end of this story.  One of the more interesting characters in the book is George Hall (one of several Peters turns up during the course of the novel) a voice actor for radio.  Kaminsky, a former film historian and college professor, is certainly knowledgeable about this period of time and the various forms entertainment took.  Cary Grant comes across much as he does in his movies, but there isn't much added depth.<br />The ending seemed a little rushed, and the prologue that basically takes a scene out of the final few moments of the books seems too forced.  The device got the reader's attention as to why Cary Grant and Toby Peters are running for their lives, but made the ending collapse rather suddenly.  Still, the novel is well worth reading.<br />Stuart Kaminsky's Toby Peters novels are not Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels.  They aren't intended to be.  The Peters novels are meant to be evocative of the 1940s time period and of Hollywood.  Fans of Donald Westlake, Raymond Chandler, and Max Allan Collins' Nate Heller novels will probably enjoy this series a lot, and mystery readers looking for something solid and dependable will want to pick this book up if they've never tried Toby Peters or Stuart Kaminsky.	2002-09-26
US	50905801	RDIURSR3T52K4	074344602X	87314152	Killing Blow: Errand of Vengeance Book Two (Star Trek: the Original Series - Errand of Vengeance) (Bk. 2)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Blade of Bat'leth	Disguised through surgery as a human Starfleet security officer on board USS ENTERPRISE, Kell maintains the secrecy of his true Klingon nature.  However, he is conflicted about his covert mission.  Captain James T. Kirk has long been a foe of the Klingon Empire, marked for death on more than one occasion, yet somehow surviving through-what the Klingon Empire has insisted-cowardly ways.  During his tenure aboard ENTERPRISE, though, Kell has found the abrasive young captain to be anything but cowardly.  In fact, Kirk embodies the teachings of honor of Kahless the Warrior.  Striking such a man down from behind, as the Klingon Empire has charged Kell to do, would be a supreme act of cowardice and leave the young Klingon warrior bereft of honor himself.  In addition to the unsettling realization about Kirk, Kell has also fallen in love with Leslie Parrish, a human security officer also assigned to ENTERPRISE.  Kell's friendship with Benitez, another starship security officer, also pulls at him.  Even as he's struggling with what he's supposed to do, Kell goes on a mission that reveals some of the underhanded play the Klingon Empire has been promoting.  Meanwhile, on the Klingon battle cruiser D'K TAHG, Kell's brother Karel has his own problems with promoting from within and getting caught up in a major bid for captaincy aboardship.  Back on Earth, Lieutenant West pursues his research for some way to settle the coming war between the Federation and the Klingon Empire, a war which all resources say the Federation may well lose and that will definitely see a huge number of losses.<br />Kevin Ryan had co-authored two Star Trek novels before the ERRAND OF VENGEANCE trilogy for the original Star Trek series.  In addition, he was an editor on the line for a number of years.  Next year will see the publication of two ROSWELL novels he has authored.<br />With a sure hand and a deep working knowledge of the Star Trek universe(s), Kevin Ryan has skillfully engineered another Star Trek novel that will keep readers glued to the pages.  The overall punch of the ERRAND OF VENGEANCE trilogy is awesome, combining the history of the Klingons tightly interwoven with the Star Trek history diehard fans are so familiar with.  The pacing of the novel, like the previous one, feels very much like an episode of the television series, never dwelling too long on any one character or situation, then moving on quickly to another set of characters.  Ryan also manages to pull off a romance that is realistic and touching, yet never slow the pace of the stories that he's unfolding.  His actions scenes are real grabbers, reaching out and pulling the readers into the battle.  The bar fight was great and set up the tragedy at the end very well.<br />The only things that jarred in this novel were the remembrances of Lieutenant Justman (Admiral Justman) that happened in the past.  Those sequences kept running through on-going action encountered by the other characters.  Perhaps if they had been framed differently, or if a header had been placed in the text to warn the reader of the impending time jump, they would have gone more smoothly.  Still, the scenes and story were interesting and showed more history of the Klingon interaction with the Federation as well as Justman's own motivation.<br />As the second novel in the ERRAND OF VENGEANCE trilogy, KILLING BLOW doesn't stand on its own.  It shouldn't.  The novel is a piece of an intricate whole that is a mesmerizing tale.  Editor John Ordover's vision in creating Star Trek TOS novels that weave new tales through the known mythos from the eyes of regular crewmen rather the more traditional viewpoints of the stars is a grand experiment that is succeeding.  The concept brings freshness to the series that is fun and plays fast and loose because anything can happen-and probably will-to the primary characters outside of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy.  Anyone looking for a really well done Star Trek trilogy or well-done space opera in general should put these three novels on the required reading list.n general should put these three novels on the required reading list.	2002-09-24
US	50905801	R2X0TZJ80HGA07	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Americana With A Bite	Seven-year old Luke Chandler lives on rural farmland outside Black Oak, Arkansas in September 1952.  Besides listening to Harry Caray call out the baseball action of his beloved St. Louis Cardinals on the radio, Luke spends his time daydreaming, going to school, and picking cotton during the harvest months of September and October.  As with every year, the Chandler family hires Mexicans brought up from Mexico and hill people who have come down out of the hills to pick cotton.  All of these people, Mexicans and Arkansas hill people, live on the Chandler farm during picking season.  This harvest, though, is going to see Luke face many changes, threats, and make choices that will affect his life forever.  The cotton grows and the floods come just like always, but every year ushers in new people that change a young boy's perception of himself and the world.  This year Luke encounters Tally-the seventeen-year old beauty that he develops a crush on and gets to watch skinny-dipping, Hank-Tally's hardheaded, hard-fisted brother who gets into a fight and kills a local boy, Cowboy-a fierce Mexican worker who has the best curveball Luke has ever seen and carries a switchblade knife, as well as a host of others.  Luke also learns the dreadful secret of the Latcher family that ties into the Chandler family as well and promises possible shame for both families.  His Uncle Ricky is off fighting in the Korean War and everyone worries about him.  With all of these possibilities and problems looming before him, Luke knows the true deadline in his life is whether or not the Chandler family can get their cotton crop picked in time to make a profit this year to let them struggle again the next.<br />John Grisham took a serious turn from writing the legal thrillers all of his fans have been clamoring for since THE FIRM in 1991 to do A PAINTED HOUSE.  Nearly all of his novels since that time have been turned into movies, including PELICAN BRIEF, THE RAINMAKER, A TIME TO KILL, and THE CLIENT (which also became a TV series briefly).  He's also written a holiday book called SKIPPING CHRISTMAS, which deals with family issues just as A PAINTED HOUSE does.  He lived in the Arkansas Delta lands he writes so vividly of, and became an attorney before becoming a best-selling novelist.<br />Luke Chandler's voice, his observation about the small town, rural community, and the people that inhabit them are electrifying.  Readers that hail from small towns will know that Grisham lays down the bones of his story in the bedrock of those people and those places.  He presents sharp and clever asides about human nature and religion, about gossip, and the explosive futility of man trying to tame the elements.  The prose is clean and crisp, deliberately laidback and well paced, with evocative descriptions that unfurl murals of the landscape and seasons, and portraits of the people involved.  Everyone who grew up in a small town knew a man like Eli Chandler and has listened to variations of the hometown hero stories and legends that are told.  Several subplots are laid out like a spray of chicken feed for the fowl living on the farm.  The novel is like coming home again for those readers who grew up there, and is a fine introduction to those who wondered what life might be like in such a time and place.<br />Unfortunately, many of the novel's strengths also underscore Grisham's weaknesses in the finished work.  Luke's voice is way too old for the age he's presented at.  At times Grisham has Luke pegged correctly, but there are several times that he's thinking way beyond his years.  Maybe a framing device, like a man sitting down to tell his memoirs of that time would have been better suited than just launching into the tale.  The subplots also present another problem in that many of them are unresolved.  The novel, although the intuitive reader will know ahead of time how the story ends, comes to a close rather abruptly.  Several of the characters never quite made it to the plate (to use a baseball analogy as Grisham so often does in the book) and came across flat and unmemorable, never carrying out the promise they were imbued with.<br />A PAINTED HOUSE might not be for most Grisham fans, but it will definitely strike a chord for readers looking to relive or experience the small town upbringing circa 1952.  Baby boomers who are voracious readers will probably devour this novel in a short amount of time and be glad to visit that time and place again, and probably just as glad to be shut of it once more.  For a taste of nostalgia and bittersweet memories, for a glimpse inside foreign windows, A PAINTED HOUSE delivers well.he plate (to use a baseball analogy as Grisham so often does in the book) and came across flat and unmemorable, never carrying out the promise they were imbued with.<br />A PAINTED HOUSE might not be for most Grisham fans, but it will definitely strike a chord for readers looking to relive or experience the small town upbringing circa 1952.  Baby boomers who are voracious readers will probably devour this novel in a short amount of time and be glad to visit that time and place again, and probably just as glad to be shut of it once more.  For a taste of nostalgia and bittersweet memories, for a glimpse inside foreign windows, A PAINTED HOUSE delivers well.	2002-09-23
US	50905801	R1KEK0C3TX7R8M	0385308469	252631872	Pronto	Books	4	15	17	N	N	So Criminal	Harry Arno, a bookie in Miami, quietly lives the good life with a sometime girlfriend, Joyce Patton.  He's skimmed money from the top of his operation without the knowledge of his boss, Jimmy \\"Cap\\" Capotorto, for years and has managed to salt away nearly a cool million toward his retirement.  If everything had gone the way Harry had wanted, he would have retired and moved to Rapallo, Italy, where he once saw and briefly talked to the poet, Ezra Pound.  Harry was in the army at the time, and Pound was incarcerated.  That was also the first time Harry killed a man.  Things go sour for Harry when the Justice Department sets him up by having a snitch tell Jimmy Cap that Harry has been skimming.  Everybody knows bookies skim, but nobody's supposed to be able to prove it.  The Justice Department figures that Jimmy Cap will try to have Harry killed, which will force Harry to ask for witness protection and turn evidence against Jimmy Cap.  Harry remains optimistic about working things out-until he has to kill a gunman sent by Jimmy Cap.  United States Marshal Raylan Givens is sent to protect Harry and try to get him to come in.  Raylan has a past with Harry:  six years ago Raylan was escorting Harry to a court date in Chicago when Harry gave him the slip in the Atlanta airport.  Raylan is an old West kind of marshal, the kind who always gets his man, so bringing Harry in this time is kind of a point of honor thing and an attempt to clean his blemished record.  So when Harry gives Raylan the slip again and disappears off to Rapallo, Italy, the marshal feels compelled to go after him-even if it means stepping into the line of fire of Tommy Bitonti, Jimmy Cap's main enforcer.  Tommy Bitonti-also called Tommy Bucks and the Zip-has his own axe to grind.  If Harry ends up dead, the Zip gets to take over the bookie operation, which is going to mean a lot more money.  Harry's on the run in Italy, and Raylan and the Zip are on a collision course.<br />Elmore Leonard is America's premiere crime novelist.  With dozens of novels written and more movie and television deals coming every day, Leonard has become a household name.  Quentin Tarantino acknowledged Leonard's influence when the young director scripted and directed PULP FICTION, and made Leonard's novel RUM PUNCH into the movie, JACKY BROWN.  Early in his long career, Leonard wrote pulp western stories, then moved into the paperback market after the pulps died in the 1950s.  His early western novels and pulp novellas, HOMBRE, 3:10 TO YUMA, THE LAW AT RANDADO, LAST STAND AT SABRE RIVER, and VALDEZ IS COMING were all made into movies.  He wrote original western scripts for JOE KIDD, HIGH NOON PART II, and DESPERADO.  Several of his crime novels, including STICK, 52 PICKUP, GLITZ, CAT CHASER, SPLIT IMAGES, GET SHORTY, PRONTO, GOLD COAST, RUM PUNCH, and OUT OF SIGHT, were made into movies.  MAXIMUM BOB was made into a television series.  He began his journalism career as a crime reporter in Detroit, where he worked the graveyard shift and got to know both the police officers and the criminals in the city.  When his writing career took off, he started writing novels and screenplays full-time, eventually moving down to Florida where he currently lives and works.<br />PRONTO is a greatly simple and simply great novel.  Leonard introduces his three main characters and gets them moving against each other.  In the beginning, there are no clear rules or definitions between them.  Harry, Raylan, and the Zip will use anyone or anything to achieve the ends each desires.  Of them all, Raylan seems to be the more altruistic, but even he is not without his flaws.  Joyce Patton, Harry's girlfriend, is well-drawn and carries her own depth even though she is primarily there to move the plot and action along, as well as to bring out different facets of Harry and Raylan.  No Elmore Leonard novel would be complete without the cast of extras that make up the team that brings his world to life.  Even these extrastake on real dimensions, and the reader knows those people well, knows what they will and won't do.  The dialogue is amazing, a blend of realistic street and egocentric comments and declarations that bring the characters, the scenes, and the plot to rich, crisp life.  Harry, at best, is a gruff, barely likeable guy, but he rings true.  Readers have known guys like him, and the fascination of what's going to happen next to a guy like Harry keeps the reader turning pages.  Raylan Givens, carrying the hero's task of being the cavalry and straight-shooter, stumbles and falls a little by not stepping fully into the role, but his no-nonsense rawhide cowboy manners are a tip of the hat to the American West that spawned such men.  The Zip, although he is the bad guy, carries a lot of the humor by heckling Nicky Testa, Jimmy Cap's right-hand guy, and comes across as a real person because he's only reaching for what he desires that can be his.<br />The pacing seemed a little off at times in this novel when compared to past Leonard books.  Jimmy Cap never quite came across as the awe-inspiring menace he perhaps should have been.  And the ending came a little too quickly.  Also, seeing more of what happened to Raylan after the final confrontation would have been welcome.<br />Fans of James Lee Burke, Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Donald Westlake, and Carl Hiaasen will find a new treasure in Elmore Leonard if they haven't already discovered this author.take on real dimensions, and the reader knows those people well, knows what they will and won't do.  The dialogue is amazing, a blend of realistic street and egocentric comments and declarations that bring the characters, the scenes, and the plot to rich, crisp life.  Harry, at best, is a gruff, barely likeable guy, but he rings true.  Readers have known guys like him, and the fascination of what's going to happen next to a guy like Harry keeps the reader turning pages.  Raylan Givens, carrying the hero's task of being the cavalry and straight-shooter, stumbles and falls a little by not stepping fully into the role, but his no-nonsense rawhide cowboy manners are a tip of the hat to the American West that spawned such men.  The Zip, although he is the bad guy, carries a lot of the humor by heckling Nicky Testa, Jimmy Cap's right-hand guy, and comes across as a real person because he's only reaching for what he desires that can be his.<br />The pacing seemed a little off at times in this novel when compared to past Leonard books.  Jimmy Cap never quite came across as the awe-inspiring menace he perhaps should have been.  And the ending came a little too quickly.  Also, seeing more of what happened to Raylan after the final confrontation would have been welcome.<br />Fans of James Lee Burke, Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Donald Westlake, and Carl Hiaasen will find a new treasure in Elmore Leonard if they haven't already discovered this author.	2002-09-23
US	50905801	RI7ULC60XWWC3	1931484198	92231669	Ruse v. 1: Enter the Detective	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Game's Afoot!	In the graphic novel, RUSE: ENTER THE DETECTIVE, Simon Archard is the world's most brilliant detective.  The world of Arcadia, that is.  The World's Greatest Detective, as he as known by, lives in Partington, one of the largest and most successful cities on the planet.  Archard is an inventor, a trained thinker; his detective work is a passion, possibly the only one he has ever developed, according to Emma Bishop, his aide and chief confidant.  In ENTER THE DETECTIVE, Archard is asked to investigate the murder of a blind and near-deaf ex-ship's captain down in the city's docktown area.  In no time at all, Archard and the beautiful Emma are off in hot pursuit.  The twisting and treacherous trail leads the investigators to their near-deaths in a burning ship filled with rats, to the murder of a good friend and trusted ally, and the exhumation of that friend's body later.  In the meantime, Archard himself suddenly becomes an enemy of the Partington Police Force after he is framed for murder.  The fifth chapter in the graphic novel deals with Emma's search for a serial killer of young prostitutes while Archard remains conspicuously absent.  In chapter six, Archard and Emma confront Lightbourne, the detective's last partner before Emma's arrival.  The murder of a man while in a trick Harry Houdini made famous is the bait that draws Archard into the trap set by his archrival.<br />Mark Waid has written hundreds of comics for DC and for Marvel, and he's been nominated for several awards.  Several Eisners were nominated for his work on the on-going monthly series, RUSE, from which this graphic novel was taken.  He had a long run on DC's Flash comics series, creating several concepts and character takes that the series still uses, and created IMPULSE, a very successful book while Waid brought his trademark humor and sense of adventure to.  With Ron Garney, he re-created the Captain America franchise for Marvel Comics for a while.  And he wrote JUSTICE LEAGUE YEAR ONE, a fan favorite, and several issues of the JLA monthly series before signing exclusively with CrossGen Comics.  Butch Guice got his start doing pages for Marvel Comics' IRON MAN, but quickly moved on to fan favorite of the 1980s, MICRONAUTS.  He worked on THE DEATH OF SUPERMAN, but really hit his stride with BIRDS OF PREY, which has since gone on to become a TV series.<br />RUSE: ENTER THE DETECTIVE is a slam-bang ride for Sherlock Holmes fans, Victorian England period lovers, and many mystery buffs.  Waid always succeeds in creating original yet familiar characters, then imbuing them with real personalities, and the problems and successes that stem from those personalities all on their own or when combined with others.  Waid's dialogue, simply one of the best of his many talents, fires on all cylinders, pushing the plot along, establishing character and history panel after panel.  The action is quick and dynamic, the plotting deft and razor-sharp.  He has paired his hero and heroine well, giving them both strengths and weaknesses and secrets that readers will eagerly await to see in action.  Butch Guice's pencils are absolutely jaw-dropping beautiful.  The research he's done on the time period shows, and the RUSE issues could actually be used for reference material for anyone.  The work he does on the streets and docks of Partington are breathtaking.  His panel breakdowns for the action that Waid calls out in the script are filled with blistering action, and the reader can feel the wind in his or her face.  The colorist and inker, Laura DePuy and Mike Perkins, excel at their crafts and make Guice look like a natural wonder.<br />Fans of Johnny Depp's FROM HELL movie or Alan Moore's graphic novel of the same name will enjoy RUSE: ENTER THE DETECTIVE.  Waid and Guice fans will definitely want to pick up this graphic novel for their collections as well because the book showcases some of their best work.favorite, and several issues of the JLA monthly series before signing exclusively with CrossGen Comics.  Butch Guice got his start doing pages for Marvel Comics' IRON MAN, but quickly moved on to fan favorite of the 1980s, MICRONAUTS.  He worked on THE DEATH OF SUPERMAN, but really hit his stride with BIRDS OF PREY, which has since gone on to become a TV series.<br />RUSE: ENTER THE DETECTIVE is a slam-bang ride for Sherlock Holmes fans, Victorian England period lovers, and many mystery buffs.  Waid always succeeds in creating original yet familiar characters, then imbuing them with real personalities, and the problems and successes that stem from those personalities all on their own or when combined with others.  Waid's dialogue, simply one of the best of his many talents, fires on all cylinders, pushing the plot along, establishing character and history panel after panel.  The action is quick and dynamic, the plotting deft and razor-sharp.  He has paired his hero and heroine well, giving them both strengths and weaknesses and secrets that readers will eagerly await to see in action.  Butch Guice's pencils are absolutely jaw-dropping beautiful.  The research he's done on the time period shows, and the RUSE issues could actually be used for reference material for anyone.  The work he does on the streets and docks of Partington are breathtaking.  His panel breakdowns for the action that Waid calls out in the script are filled with blistering action, and the reader can feel the wind in his or her face.  The colorist and inker, Laura DePuy and Mike Perkins, excel at their crafts and make Guice look like a natural wonder.<br />Fans of Johnny Depp's FROM HELL movie or Alan Moore's graphic novel of the same name will enjoy RUSE: ENTER THE DETECTIVE.  Waid and Guice fans will definitely want to pick up this graphic novel for their collections as well because the book showcases some of their best work.	2002-09-17
US	50905801	R2E75D1FN5ACU7	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Born Under An Unlucky Star	Sally Lockhart, sixteen years old and suddenly an orphan, lives in Victorian London in 1872.  Her father, Matthew Lockhart, owned half-interest in a shipping business, Lockhart and Selby, Shipping Agents.  After arriving at the business, she seeks out Mr. Selby, her late father's partner, but is instead directed to see Mr. Higgs, the company secretary.  While speaking with Mr. Higgs, Sally mentions a man named Marchbanks and the Seven Blessings.  Overcome with fear, Mr. Higgs has a heart attack and dies.  Sally got both names from a mysterious note that arrived at the house where she is staying with her aunt, a terrible woman who is interested in Sally only for the money she gets paid to put her up.  The arrival of the note and the accompanying mystery drastically alters Sally's life even more than her father's death aboard a sinking ship in the South China Sea.  She goes on the run for her life, chased by enemies that she never knew existed, and has to find allies who will help her seek out the truth of what is going on in the city's dark and fearful criminal underground.  To survive and claim her own life back, Sally has to figure out the puzzle of her father's death, but by doing that she will come face-to-face with the most evil man she has ever met.<br />Philip Pullman is an award-winning writer.  Besides the Sally Lockhart Trilogy, consisting of THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE, THE SHADOW IN THE NORTH, and THE TIGER IN THE WELL, he's also written the HIS DARK MATERIALS Trilogy:  THE GOLDEN COMPASS, THE SUBTLE KNIFE, and THE AMBER SPYGLASS.  THE TIN PRINCESS, a historical stand-alone novel, includes characters from the Sally Lockhart Trilogy.<br />The novel is a good suspense and mystery read, and features a plucky heroine that readers will agonize over and root for.  Sally Lockhart may start out her adventure in over her head, but she quickly regroups and rises to meet the challenge.  The friends that she meets and recruits to help her unravel the dangerous mystery are all original and unique, as are the villains that she is up against.  Victorian England comes across as a character itself, and the setting is sharply realized in the descriptions included in the narrative as well as the speech patterns of the characters.  The novel is like a Charles Dickens tale, but told succinctly and concisely in today's language.  The shifting from points of view, from the heroine to the evil villainess and her henchmen (something usually not done in YA books) also makes the story move along at a rapid pace.<br />Anyone wanting a good thriller with a deep and well-researched history of Victorian England, complete with information about the opium trade conducted in China, will enjoy THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE.  Sally Lockhart is a genuine tough-minded heroine who has an interesting history designed to make her a great character, and certainly interesting enough to carry through two more books in the series.  Fans of Pullman's fantasy novels will want to take a look at this book because, even though the story may not be set in a fantasy world, Victorian England seems very much like another world filled with mystery, mayhem, and nefarious evil-doers.all original and unique, as are the villains that she is up against.  Victorian England comes across as a character itself, and the setting is sharply realized in the descriptions included in the narrative as well as the speech patterns of the characters.  The novel is like a Charles Dickens tale, but told succinctly and concisely in today's language.  The shifting from points of view, from the heroine to the evil villainess and her henchmen (something usually not done in YA books) also makes the story move along at a rapid pace.<br />Anyone wanting a good thriller with a deep and well-researched history of Victorian England, complete with information about the opium trade conducted in China, will enjoy THE RUBY IN THE SMOKE.  Sally Lockhart is a genuine tough-minded heroine who has an interesting history designed to make her a great character, and certainly interesting enough to carry through two more books in the series.  Fans of Pullman's fantasy novels will want to take a look at this book because, even though the story may not be set in a fantasy world, Victorian England seems very much like another world filled with mystery, mayhem, and nefarious evil-doers.	2002-09-17
US	50905801	RWGCT311QLG1Q	B0000632J2	442694342	High Five	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Have Stun Gun, Will Travel	Stephanie Plum, the New Jersey bounty hunter who works for her cousin Vinnie, has hit a lull in her sometimes dangerous and sometimes exasperating career.  Evidently everyone in Trenton has decided to walk the straight and narrow after the commission of whatever crime he or she is supposed to see the judge about.  There are no FTAs (Failure To Appear) that will net Stephanie the cash in hand that she needs to keep her apartment rent up to date and hamster food for Rex, her pet hamster.  To top it off, she's kind of flipped the on-again/off-again relationship she's been having with major crush and homicide detective Joe Morelli into permanent off.  And there's not enough Rocky Road ice cream in the world to get the missed steamy nights with Morelli off Stephanie's mind.  Since staying home isn't the answer to her love life and won't get the bills paid, Stephanie decides to branch out and talk to Ranger, her mentor who taught her the bounty hunting biz, about extra work.  The first extra work involves clearing a crack dealer out of an apartment building in what has to be the seediest neighborhood in Trenton.  In no time at all, bullets start flying.  Scrambling for money, trying to keep from getting shot, Stephanie is also pulled into investigating the disappearance of her Uncle Fred who was last seen going to the local garbage company to complain about two dollars the company owed him.  The bail bond recover that Stephanie agreed to involves a three-foot tall \\"little person\\" with the social disposition of the Incredible Hulk and who proves as wily and hard to catch as the Road Runner.  Added into the mix is the return of Benito Ramirez, a sadistic ex-con looking for vengeance on Stephanie for putting him in prison.  And then there's Bunchy, who says he's a bookie and keeps breaking into Stephanie's apartment to goad her into searching for her Uncle Fred because Uncle Fred owes Bunchy money.<br />NEW YORK TIMES bestseller Janet Evanovich currently has eight Stephanie Plum novels in print, beginning with ONE FOR THE MONEY.  Other titles include TWO FOR THE DOUGH, THREE TO GET DEADLY, FOUR TO SCORE, HIGH FIVE, HOT SIX, SEVEN UP, and HARD EIGHT.  Prior to her Plum novels, the author wrote twelve romance novels.  One of those novels, FULL HOUSE, has been retooled, had another 150 pages added to make the reading thicker and richer, and has been released as a paperback.  VISIONS OF SUGAR PLUMS, a short Stephanie Plum novel, will be released in November 2002.<br />Stephanie Plum lives in a wacky and wonderful world that is real enough to believe in.  Beginning with the dysfunctional family that includes Grandma Mazur, who usually acts more like her shoe size than her age and has a wild sense of adventure and an imagination that is an absolute scream.  Her father is long-suffering (he gets zapped with a stun gun in this novel), and her mother is always worried about what the neighbors and family friends will think of Stephanie's gun-toting and physical abuse of strangers for money (especially after she burned down a funeral home in TWO FOR THE DOUGH and gets her car blown up in this novel).  Evanovich did a lot of research for the Stephanie Plum novels, primarily taking bounty hunters to lunch, and the methodology of recovering the bail jumpers comes across as dead-on.  Added to the rich background that the author has built into the series over the course of the novels, Stephanie always has at least a half-dozen problems going on at once.  Not in the least of which is her complicated love life with Joe Morelli (every girl in Trenton wants him, and every mother in Trenton has warned her daughter(s) away from the Morelli men).  Beside the comical and whimsical twists of the book's plot, Evanovich also comments on life in general-how it is and how it should be.  The touches with Randy Briggs, the three-foot tall FTA, and with her aunt Mabel are absolutely a riot.  Stephanie's dealings with the garbage company that is supposed to pick up her uncle and aunt's garbage tickles the funny bone because it so succinctly reveals that bit of Americana.  After all, what will the neighbors think if the garbage men won't stop and pick up the trash?  Despite all the goings-on in the novel, the mystery of what has happened to Uncle Fred takes center stage even during the Mafia wedding Joe Morelli takes Stephanie to.  After all, what was Uncle Fred doing with pictures of a woman hacked to pieces in one of the garbage company's bins only the day before he disappeared?<br />Janet Evanovich is an excellent writer really hitting her stride.  Stephanie Plum is the perfect mystery series for someone wanting a story that is hyper, involving, and easy to read.r uncle and aunt's garbage tickles the funny bone because it so succinctly reveals that bit of Americana.  After all, what will the neighbors think if the garbage men won't stop and pick up the trash?  Despite all the goings-on in the novel, the mystery of what has happened to Uncle Fred takes center stage even during the Mafia wedding Joe Morelli takes Stephanie to.  After all, what was Uncle Fred doing with pictures of a woman hacked to pieces in one of the garbage company's bins only the day before he disappeared?<br />Janet Evanovich is an excellent writer really hitting her stride.  Stephanie Plum is the perfect mystery series for someone wanting a story that is hyper, involving, and easy to read.	2002-09-16
US	50905801	R2NZ1B5UQHBN1N	B000066TRL	624491085	The Summerhouse	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Another Chance To Get It Right	Leslie Headrick lives a life, as many housewives do, of quiet desperation.  Her husband  is philandering, according to public gossip at least, with his young and vivacious secretary, Bambi.  Her daughter is a rebel with every cause, mostly railing against her mother because she won't stand up for herself.  Her son quietly stays away from family stress, which means Leslie hardly ever sees him even though they live in the same house.  The summerhouse that she had claimed for herself has fallen into wrecked abandon as a result of her husband's negligence.  So when the invitation comes to see two friends that she hasn't seen in nineteen years for their joint fortieth birthday, she goes with nary a backward look.  Nineteen years ago, Leslie had run from her engagement to Alan, the man she's presently married to, in order to see the world.  Madison Appleby was going to be a model.  Ellie Abbott was working on becoming an artist.  Now, Leslie is trapped in urban mom hell, squeezed between working for fundraising committees and keeping up with the laundry.  Madison is an anorexic chain-smoker who is at best a badly faded beauty queen.  Ellie is an overweight and neurotic has-been bestselling writer.  As they quietly gather in Bangor, Maine and catch up on all the depressing and sad details of each others' lives, none of them know that magic is in the air-and that they will all be given the chance to relive their lives and do things differently.  But what will be the rewards and what will be the cost?<br />Jude Deveraux is a NEW YORK TIMES bestselling author.  She's written THE MULBERRY TREE, FOREVER, THE INVITATION, REMEMBERANCE, TEMPTATION, and A KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR.<br />THE SUMMERHOUSE is one of those lazy, do-nothing-all-day summer novels.  The characters and situations are just deep enough to keep the reader involved and moving forward.  The women come across as real, as do their problems, and the dialogue gracefully sews everything together.<br />Although the novel uses (an undefined magic) to move the women back in time to key points in their lives, the juxtaposition of what is supposed to be real events is just too bizarre.  The conceit that these three women, all waiting till their twenty-first birthday to renew their driver's licenses would show up at the Department of Motor Vehicles on the same day is too much.  Likewise that they would get together on their fortieth birthday (without their friends and families) after nineteen years of silence.  Even two or three years of separation can seriously damage long-term relationships, much less a chance encounter that lasted only a few hours.  The casual reference to \\"Ira's Girls\\"-based on the fact that the man at the DMV intentionally held three women up every day because they were beautiful and he wanted to look at them-really rankles.  A guy in a position like that would get sued or fired, and probably both.  Also, the title-THE SUMMERHOUSE-actually ends up having very little to do with the overall plot.<br />While definitely nowhere near a literary novel nor painstakingly plotted as a Nora Roberts novel, Jude Deveraux's novel will sate the casual romance reader looking to sped a light and breezy afternoon for a few feel-good moments thinking that everything can be made right in the world.l uses (an undefined magic) to move the women back in time to key points in their lives, the juxtaposition of what is supposed to be real events is just too bizarre.  The conceit that these three women, all waiting till their twenty-first birthday to renew their driver's licenses would show up at the Department of Motor Vehicles on the same day is too much.  Likewise that they would get together on their fortieth birthday (without their friends and families) after nineteen years of silence.  Even two or three years of separation can seriously damage long-term relationships, much less a chance encounter that lasted only a few hours.  The casual reference to \\"Ira's Girls\\"-based on the fact that the man at the DMV intentionally held three women up every day because they were beautiful and he wanted to look at them-really rankles.  A guy in a position like that would get sued or fired, and probably both.  Also, the title-THE SUMMERHOUSE-actually ends up having very little to do with the overall plot.<br />While definitely nowhere near a literary novel nor painstakingly plotted as a Nora Roberts novel, Jude Deveraux's novel will sate the casual romance reader looking to sped a light and breezy afternoon for a few feel-good moments thinking that everything can be made right in the world.	2002-09-15
US	50905801	R1F7KP26VDYAW8	0451203984	593074819	Death on a Casual Friday (Scotia MacKinnon Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Engaging Sleuth	Scotia MacKinnion works as a private investigator on San Juan Island between Washington State and Vancouver British Columbia.  In the past, she's been a homicide detective for five years with the San Diego Police Department, so she knows the moves and she has the chops.  Her infield team consists of Zelda Jones, a web site designer and graphic artist who does computer research for her, Ben Carey, a homicide detective in Berkeley who looks into police matters, and Jared Saperstein, a news reporter with a talent for hacking.  Elyse Montenegro tries to hire Scotia to dissuade a stalker she insists is following her around, but Scotia isn't too certain she wants the case.  Later, after having Zelda run the license plate Elyse gave her and turning up the fact that it belongs to a rental vehicle leased by a man that might be a private investigator himself, Scotia's interest rises.  Only a short while later, Elyse's friend Campbell Sawyer is run off the road while driving Elyse's car.  Elyse returns to Scotia's office, and this time she tells Scotia of her husband's murder.  Julio Montenegro was a lawyer who worked with Latin Americans who had immigration problems or other legal entanglements.  But Julio had another side to him as well:  he also wrote an inflammatory column regarding United States-Mexico relations that offended major players in financial circles and political circles on both sides of the border.  In addition, Julio was a player and had a mistress on the side.  As if the case isn't complicated enough, Scotia discovers that other Hispanic attorneys have been murdered lately, and she has to give some thought to whether or not she's on the trail of a serial killer.<br />DEATH ON A CASUAL FRIDAY is author Sharon Duncan's first novel, but a second Scotia MacKinnion novel, A DEEP BLUE FAREWELL, is already on the shelves.  Before turning to full time writing, the author worked with linguistics and statistics.  She is also an avid sailor.<br />Scotia MacKinnion is an engaging heroine.  She has a very full, very real life in addition to her work as a private investigator.  Her relationship with her mother-Jewel Moon, a 1960s activist and former flower child-is strained.  Scotia also has a college-aged daughter living out of the home who, when left to her own devices, tends to fall into her grandmother's orbit a little too much for Scotia's comfort.  Nick Anastazi, a maritime lawyer, is her lover and gets somewhat too involved in his cases and his own teenage daughter to be around as much as Scotia would want.  Scotia's world is realized very completely and with lots of details that make the reader feel as though he or she is walking at Scotia's side through Friday Harbor, San Juan.  Zelda and Scotia's gossip feels real, and when the women start in talking about people the reader doesn't know-yet-the ears immediately start prick up and wait for the dish to begin.  The mystery is ably plotted and gives Scotia plenty to do while tracking down suspects and turning up more information on the murder victim than she'd wanted.  The story also gives the author room to discuss the political issues that are obviously important to her.<br />Sharon Duncan's light romp will be a fun read for cozy lovers and mystery fans who like their action relatively bloodless and at a tolerable adrenaline level.  Readers of Carolyn G. Hart and Dorothy Cannell should have a new series to enjoy.n engaging heroine.  She has a very full, very real life in addition to her work as a private investigator.  Her relationship with her mother-Jewel Moon, a 1960s activist and former flower child-is strained.  Scotia also has a college-aged daughter living out of the home who, when left to her own devices, tends to fall into her grandmother's orbit a little too much for Scotia's comfort.  Nick Anastazi, a maritime lawyer, is her lover and gets somewhat too involved in his cases and his own teenage daughter to be around as much as Scotia would want.  Scotia's world is realized very completely and with lots of details that make the reader feel as though he or she is walking at Scotia's side through Friday Harbor, San Juan.  Zelda and Scotia's gossip feels real, and when the women start in talking about people the reader doesn't know-yet-the ears immediately start prick up and wait for the dish to begin.  The mystery is ably plotted and gives Scotia plenty to do while tracking down suspects and turning up more information on the murder victim than she'd wanted.  The story also gives the author room to discuss the political issues that are obviously important to her.<br />Sharon Duncan's light romp will be a fun read for cozy lovers and mystery fans who like their action relatively bloodless and at a tolerable adrenaline level.  Readers of Carolyn G. Hart and Dorothy Cannell should have a new series to enjoy.	2002-09-13
US	50905801	R2NCJKHP90T9T6	1563898527	169104785	Batgirl Vol. 2: A Knight Alone	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Out of the Shadows	Cassandra Cain, the young woman that inherited the Batgirl mantle from Barbara Gordon, rose from the cataclysmic upheaval of NO MAN'S LAND.  During the aftermath of the earthquake that leveled so much of Gotham City, she became a hero and caught the eye of the city's fiercest protector: Batman.  Her origins were mysterious, and-upon discovery-just as debilitating as the murder of her mentor's own parents.  Raised to be the world's most dangerous assassin, Cassandra was trained never to speak, never to think, only to act and react.  In the second graphic novel of her adventures, Cassandra is dealing with the fall-out of having been given the \\"gift\\" of speech.  Bereft of her usual fighting ability, she trains and trains, trying to get back what she once had and accepted so casually.  Batman counsels Cassandra, and Barbara Gordon counsels her, but only when Batgirl steps into the field of fire of the dangerous living legend, Shiva, does she begin to come to terms with what she is, what she was, and what she wants to be.  Only by agreeing to Shiva's terms can Batgirl reclaim what she lost-and those terms could mean the death of her.  Even as Cassandra regains her old skills, they're immediately put to the test in the rest of the collected stories.  David Cain, the man who raised Cassandra, steps back into her life as well, bringing more pain and tragedy as he tries to recover tapes of Cassandra's aberrant childhood and the training he forced on her.  The last arc brings Cassandra under the watchful eyes of a government agency dedicated to bringing her down.<br />Kelley Puckett has been the regular BATGIRL monthly writer for years, with only a few time-outs for fill-in issues.  He's also written for BATMAN ADVENTURES, GREEN ARROW, and LEGENDS OF THE DC UNIVERSE.  Damion Scott has drawn for DETECTIVE COMICS and BATMAN: LEGENDS OF THE DARK KNIGHT.<br />Kelley Puckett's script work for BATGIRL: A KNIGHT ALONE is excellent.  The story flows quickly through the action and meat of the plot.  Driven along by razor-edged, lean dialogue and first-person narrative that adds tension, insight, and immediacy.  Puckett has created a very savvy new heroine, yet at the same time gifted her with a vulnerability that draws the reader's interest.  Cassandra Cain has basically been plucked from everything she's known and plopped down in an alien world.  With the addition of the speech ability, she lost much of the nature of herself.  Of course, having constant stories without the character speaking would become impossible after a time, and the way that Puckett chose to deal with the issue was good, solid work that comes from the character herself rather than the writer's need to erase a problematic point.  Damion Scott's pencil work is a beautiful blend of reality and manga.  He works with intricate backgrounds or with no background at all, drawing the eye naturally through the story and pushing the action scenes into sequences that explode from the pages.  When someone gets hit in the book, Scott puts the reader into that impact, on both the delivering and receiving ends with equal skill.  Most of all Cassandra Cain comes off as a real character, even when literally dodging bullets sprayed at her from an automatic weapon.  Her relationships with Batman and Barbara Gordon have a familiar feel to them, adding layers to those characters as well as her own.  Scott renders Cassandra as very human and very compassionate.  She has wide, knowing yet innocent eyes, and can smirk in disdain or smile with real humor at the drop of a hat-just as the young woman she's written to be can.  She wins and she loses fights in the graphic novel, and neither of those comes without a price.  Batgirl is an endearing character, and one that has much to learn about herself and the world she's chosen to inhabit.<br />BATGIRL: A KNIGHT ALONE is recommended for any fan of Batman.  And Kelly Puckett's authorial skills rank right up there with Chuck Dixon, Devin Grayson, and Denny O'Neill.y O'Neill.	2002-09-12
US	50905801	R1PGOEN41BRWW2	1569717613	457378238	Superman/Tarzan: Sons of the Jungle (Superman and Tarzan)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Otherworldly Jungle Action	Late 19th century:  Aboard the ship FUWALDA a mutiny takes place that endangers the lives of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke of England, and his wife Lady Alice, who is pregnant.  Black Michael, leader of the mutinying crew, is going to spare their lives and put them out on the harsh coast of East Africa, but at the last minute a falling star hurtles through the night-black sky and dissuades the superstitious sailors from such a barbarous act.  The ship sails on to Capetown.  Deep in the heart of the impenetrable jungle, a band of great apes discovers the tiny rocket ship and its child passenger.  Kala, a mother ape who recently lost a child of her own, adopts the baby and names him Argo-Zan, which means Fire-Skin.  All through his growing years, Argo-Zan exhibits strange powers that make him the lord of the jungle.  He survives the death of his mother beneath the claws of a leopard, and learns of his alien origins from some mysterious place of hairless apes called Krypton.  Finding no home among the great apes, Argo-Zan goes in search of his own kind.  In England, John Clayton struggles to fit in himself.  He doesn't feel like he belongs in the landed gentry and can't quite come to peace with himself-until the day he meets Jason Gridley, an explorer and inventor that is putting together an expedition to find the remains of a lost Roman colony deep within the jungles of East Africa.  There, in the lost city of Opar, these two sons of the jungle will meet fate and love.<br />Chuck Dixon is a prolific comics author.  He's scripted the ROBIN, NIGHTWING, and BIRDS OF PREY monthly comics series for years, and had stints on THE PUNISHER, MARVEL KNIGHTS, GREEN ARROW, BATGIRL, SAVAGE SWORD OF CONAN, AIRBOY, and ALIEN LEGION.  At present he is writing the WAY OF THE RAT monthly comic from CrossGen, as well as SCION and CRUX.  Carlos Meglia has done work on SPYBOY, STAR WARS, and ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN.<br />Edgar Rice Burroughs was the king of the action adventure story back in his day.  TARZAN OF THE APES was published in 1912.  Dixon plays homage to Tarzan's roots and world by keeping the timeframe of his graphic novel centered at that time.  Dixon also plays fairly with Superman, whose sense of fair play, honesty, and honor come through despite his savage surroundings.  At first glance, pairing the Man of Steel with the Lord of the Jungle might not seem natural or yet even possible, Dixon puts the overall story together well.  Burroughs himself had a sense of the fantastic, and the stories he wrote about John Carter of Mars, David Innes of Pellucidar and Carson Napier of Venus-all men who journeyed to distant worlds (except for Pellucidar because it's at the core of the hollow earth)-seem well in keeping with Dixon's treatment of this similar theme.  The stories of Clayton and Argo-Zan stay within the mythos of both heroes, and they come together in Opar, the home of Princess La, surely the most sultry and seductive woman Burroughs ever brought to the printed page.  Dixon also captures the essence of the time period, reflected in Clayton's journeys around the world and his father's desperate wish for him to make something of himself.  The artwork by Meglia at first grates a little because it is so stylistic, but gradually (within a few short pages) the striking colors, inks, and depictions become reader-friendly and take on a life of their own.  Meglia has a good sense of the cinematic flow, and his hard-lined panels within panels really stand out.  His full-page splash of Argo-Zan belting a stampeding elephant has to be seen to be believed.<br />Although the graphic novel is good, the feel is almost too familiar.  The final resolution of the plots comes about rather easily.  Rather than mull over the possibilities in their lives, both heroes seem to just know where they need to go and go there.  Also, it would have been nice to see them talk to each other about their experiences a little while planning a new attack to rescue their lady loves and overcome Princess La.<br />SONS OF THE JUNGLE is a good addition for the graphic novel collector that favors quick-paced Chuck Dixon adventures or wants an excellent representation of the stylized art of Carlos Meglia.  The tale is adventurous, easy to get into, and reads well.y loves and overcome Princess La.<br />SONS OF THE JUNGLE is a good addition for the graphic novel collector that favors quick-paced Chuck Dixon adventures or wants an excellent representation of the stylized art of Carlos Meglia.  The tale is adventurous, easy to get into, and reads well.	2002-09-12
US	50905801	R2BEFC44UIEWCD	1563896931	43041393	Human Target	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Bullseye!	Christopher Chance was a soldier-of-fortune, a man who would disguise himself as someone marked for death then step in front of a bullet, betting his life that his skills and mind were sharp enough not only to save his life but the life of the person that had hired him as well. People called him the Human Target, and the nickname stuck. However, no one could ever guess at the huge price Chance had to pay to become someone else. The Human Target didn't just change his looks when he assumed an identity; he also changed his thoughts and feelings, becoming the person he was trying to protect. Now, Chance is semi-retired and he has a young prot&eacute;g&eacute; named Tom McFadden stepping into his shoes. Only Tom is struggling with the whole Human Target gig too-struggling so much that he sometimes forgets who he is and can't remember how to be who he really is. Earl James is a militant black preacher drawing a line in the sand against the local drug dealers, headed up by Dee Noyz. Emerald is an assassin-for-hire, every bit as dedicated and driven as Christopher Chance, and she's been contracted to kill the Human Target. Christopher Chance is caught in the middle of a vicious crossfire: he wants to save himself and Tom McFadden, who feels he must save Earl James. At the same time, Chance has to stay out of the line of fire from Emerald and Dee Noyz. Chance is working against the clock. How can he find the man he trained-someone who can be anyone?<br />Christopher Chance, the Human Target was first created back in the 1970s by Len Wein and Carmine Infantino as a series of eight-page and ten-page backup features in ACTION COMICS, DETECTIVE COMICS, and THE BRAVE AND THE BOLD. Rick Springfield portrayed Chance in a seven-episode television series in the 1990s. Peter Milligan brought Chance back to life for the cutting-edge Vertigo line at DC Comics. Milligan has also written HUMAN TARGET: FINAL CUT, the X-Force monthly comics series, ENIGMA, THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF CYCLOPS AN PHOENIX, CATWOMAN DEFIANT, and SKIN. Edvin Biukovic, the artist on the graphic novel, passed away but left a body of work as his legacy that includes: STAR WARS-THE LAST COMMAND, STAR WARS: X-WING ROGUE SQUADRON THE PHANTOM AFFAIR, GRENDEL TALES: DEVILS AND DEATHS.<br />HUMAN TARGET is a graphic novel that satisfies on numerous levels. For old-time nostalgia fans, the reappearance of Christopher Chance-though in a very different and dark incarnation-is a welcome marriage between the old and the new. The original idea of someone willing to risk his life by being someone else is simple yet fascinating, and all the storytelling is very human. Milligan succeeds brilliantly in bringing that humanness to his story. The fact that every character in this book is driven by needs and emotions that erupt from the core of his or her being is powerful. All of the characters are at once strong and complete, but each one carries his or her faults and the seeds of his or her destruction. The secondary characters in the story-McFadden's wife, Earl James' wife, Emerald's husband, Dee Noyz's old girlfriend-all contributed to the bullet-slick pacing and the emotional implosions that come at the climax. Biukovic's art is phenomenal, an array of lights and darks and fiery colors that dropkick images and action from the pages. The bullet-riddled cross left after the attack in the church and Dee Noyz's attempt to keep Earl James from getting shot by an assassin are stark and moving. Biukovic was as at home with penciling action scenes as he was in penciling simple scenes such as when Becky McFadden was talking with Chance and hanging out her laundry. The plot is convoluted and takes close reading, but is a gem of suspense and building anticipation.<br />Although Milligan somewhat covered Christopher Chance's background, a little more was needed. Where did Christopher Chance come from? Why did he get into the line of work that he did? Where did he get his training in martial arts and indisguise? Where did he find Tom McFadden? How did he train McFadden? Although these missing pieces don't spoil the overall story, their presence would have been welcome.<br />Fans of Greg Rucka, Brian Michael Bendis, and Ed Brubaker will want to add HUMAN TARGET to their reading list. Also, anyone interested in seeing what Vertigo Comics is capable of producing in the way of crime fiction for the mature reader will find no better introduction than this graphic novel.here did he find Tom McFadden? How did he train McFadden? Although these missing pieces don't spoil the overall story, their presence would have been welcome.<br />Fans of Greg Rucka, Brian Michael Bendis, and Ed Brubaker will want to add HUMAN TARGET to their reading list. Also, anyone interested in seeing what Vertigo Comics is capable of producing in the way of crime fiction for the mature reader will find no better introduction than this graphic novel.	2002-09-11
US	50905801	R3KEQOZ8MCQGCU	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Heartbreaking	Anna Firth, young and widowed, takes in a border to help ends meet in her small household, not knowing the repercussions that are going to sweep across the small mountain village outside London, England where she lives.  George Viccars is a journeyman tailor seeking a small out-of-the-way place to put the hustle and bustle of London behind him.  While there, George wins Anna's attention by showing an interest in her oldest son, Jamie.  As they begin to talk, George shows even more interest in Anna and makes a dress for her.  Just as Anna is entertaining thoughts that George might replace her husband Sam, killed in the lead mines, George falls victim to the plague which he carried with him in the bolts of materials.  In short order, the pestilence surges over the village, breaking into every family and killing two people out of every three.  The merciless tide turns every day men and women into superstitious and scared people, and only the stern words and brave convictions of Michael Mompellion, the village rector, can hold those people in a somewhat civilized and supportive society.  Still, as the deaths continue to mount, hope dwindles and is replaced by vengeful desperation.  Murders, thievery, and witch-hunting break loose throughout the village, and Anna struggles with her own dying faith the the lure of a forbidden love.<br />Geraldine Brooks' YEAR OF WONDERS is a 2002 ALA Alex award winner.  The Alex is given to only ten books every year that were written primarily for adults but will have high appeal to the YA readers.  In addition to this novel, Brooks has also written FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE, NINE PARTS OF DESIRE:  THE HIDDEN WORLD OF ISLAMIC WOMEN, IMAZIGHEN:  THE VANISHING TRADITIONS OF BERBER WOMEN, SWAN WATCH, and DAMES AND DAUGHTERS OF COLONIAL DAYS.  She based YEAR OF WONDERS on actual events that took place in Eyam, Derbyshire, which she researched thoroughly.  She is a former war correspondent and NEW YORK TIMES journalist.<br />Told in a rolling dialect that Brooks perfected, the opening pages of YEAR OF WONDERS are mesmerizing, drawing the reader into the bleak and desolate world that her village became after the Plague was unintentionally brought among them.  Her characters are rich and full, surely wrought from the same flesh and blood of the poor people that lived and died in Eyam, Derbyshire, the place that Brooks researched and based her novel on.  The whys and wherefores of the friendships and disapproval of the women for and against each other in the novel are accurately portrayed.  Michael Mompellion's church speeches and the way he throws himself into his work are inspirational and heartbreaking, setting up the losses and the secrets that come tumbling out in the course of the story.  Although the larger society of London is not detailed so that the reader can compare what is going on in the village regarding every day life, the village itself is uniquely done.  Most readers will feel as though he or she can walk the trails back and forth between Anna's home and the church, or up to the lead mines, or down in the streets and cemeteries.  Brooks has a natural gift for dialogue, displaying an educated and cultural ear, stating precisely how different characters would vent their thoughts, hopes, aspirations, and fears.  The author is also very frank in detailing the sexual mores at the time while remaining true to the interest level of the characters involved and how women might think of such things.  The greatest thing that happens is the total involvement of the reader with the heroine.  When Anna cries, the reader will feel the tragedy.  When Anna's heart fills and lifts with hope, the reader will feel the lift as well.  When at last the plague breaks and people are free again to live, so are the readers then freed from the emotional and frightening burdens they have been carrying.  The narrative provides an immersive immediacy that will have most people devouring the novel in only a few sittings.<br/>The only thing that didn't seem to fit with the novel was the final eight pages.  Although the information was good and needed, the abrupt turn Anna takes and how she gets there is too obscure.<br />YEAR OF WONDERS is recommended to lovers of historical fiction.  Brooks' research and world-building skills are amazing.  But the casual reader looking for something different, something that will take him or her away from most works they've read before will also enjoy this novel because of the pacing, the beauty of the language, and the total immersive pull of the story./>The only thing that didn't seem to fit with the novel was the final eight pages.  Although the information was good and needed, the abrupt turn Anna takes and how she gets there is too obscure.<br />YEAR OF WONDERS is recommended to lovers of historical fiction.  Brooks' research and world-building skills are amazing.  But the casual reader looking for something different, something that will take him or her away from most works they've read before will also enjoy this novel because of the pacing, the beauty of the language, and the total immersive pull of the story.	2002-09-08
US	50905801	R2DN49QLC14JR4	1563892480	776685309	Starman VOL 01: Sins of the Father	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Starman Is Born	...P>STARMAN: SINS OF THE FATHER stands as the first graphic novel that introduced the new Starman to the comics world.  Fans who like their heroes a little on the gritty and anti-hero side will be perfectly at home here.  Yet at the same time, Robinson and company play fairly with the old Starman mythos.  People who enjoy Garth Ennis' HITMAN or JOHN CONSTANTINE: HELLBLAZER will definitely want to add this graphic novel to their collections.	2002-09-08
US	50905801	R30WBEVZ6U3VHV	0765342294	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	26	34	N	N	Playing For Keeps!	Ender Wiggin is one of the children chosen by the world government of Earth.  For the last three years, from age three to six, he's worn a monitor-a device designed and used to watch him day and night, so finely tuned that he'd started to believe that it could read his thoughts.  Then, when he was six, the device was removed.  Ender's whole world changed.  Hated by his brother Peter, loved by his sister Valentine, Ender suddenly became prey for the bigger boys at his school.  After an altercation in school and a display of viciousness and cold cruelty on Ender's part, he's told he made the program for the International Fleet, the first line of defense against the Buggers, an alien enemy encountered nearly fifty years ago that came short of destroying the planet.  Graff, the man from I.F., tells Ender that he qualified for the Battle School program, where Ender will learn how to fight Buggers.  The downside is that he won't get to see his family for ten years.  And Battle School doesn't turn out exactly the way Ender had envisioned it would.<br />Orson Scott Card is an award-winning science fiction and fantasy writer.  In addition to the Ender Wiggin series (ENDER'S GAME, SPEAKER FOR THE DEAD, XENOCIDE, CHILDREN OF THE MIND, ENDER'S SHADOW, SHADOW OF THE HEGEMON, and SHADOW PUPPETS), Card has also written the Homecoming series (THE MEMORY OF EARTH, THE CALL OF EARTH, THE SHIPS OF EARTH, EARTHFALL, and EARTHBORN) and the Tales of Alvin Maker series (SEVENTH SON, RED PROPHET, PRENTICE ALVIN, ALVIN JOURNEYMAN, and HEARTFIRE).  HOMEBODY, TREASUR BOX and LOST BOYS are three of his works that heavily involve the supernatural in today's world.  He's also written two novels about women from the Bible (REBEKAH and SARAH), and several stand-alone novels and other trilogies.<br />ENDER'S GAME is a wonderful read for old-time science fiction fans that cut his or her teeth on Robert Heinlein.  The same depth of character in a young protagonist that Heinlein was noted for is present, and the world-building skills are sharp.  At the same time, Card embraces the younger readers of SF by laying much of Ender's story in action and gameplay.  Every young reader out there is living in an SF world when he or she plugs into a PlayStation game, and Card entices those players by showing how much fun his vision of the future is with null-gravity and gameplay.  Ender comes across always as a real person with real problems.  The pacing is quick, always pulling the reader into the next situation, providing tidbits of information that locks in the bigger picture by the time the reader gets there.  Card's creation of words, situations, and tech-and the ease with which his characters (and the readers!) interface with it-is amazing.<br />This book is heartily recommended for readers already familiar with SF through Heinlein and Asimov, and to new readers who want a deeper and more immersive experience than the world presented by the latest video game.  Well-written books are the closest things to virtual reality that exist at this time, and ENDER'S GAME is one of the best.nt, and the world-building skills are sharp.  At the same time, Card embraces the younger readers of SF by laying much of Ender's story in action and gameplay.  Every young reader out there is living in an SF world when he or she plugs into a PlayStation game, and Card entices those players by showing how much fun his vision of the future is with null-gravity and gameplay.  Ender comes across always as a real person with real problems.  The pacing is quick, always pulling the reader into the next situation, providing tidbits of information that locks in the bigger picture by the time the reader gets there.  Card's creation of words, situations, and tech-and the ease with which his characters (and the readers!) interface with it-is amazing.<br />This book is heartily recommended for readers already familiar with SF through Heinlein and Asimov, and to new readers who want a deeper and more immersive experience than the world presented by the latest video game.  Well-written books are the closest things to virtual reality that exist at this time, and ENDER'S GAME is one of the best.	2002-09-04
US	50905801	R17FLCHYSSRCUR	0785109609	885504710	The Ultimates Vol. 1: Super-Human	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Avengers For the 21st Century!	In the beginning, there was a global altercation that became known as World War II, an altercation that plunged sons into a similar bloody chaos that had enveloped their fathers only twenty years ago.  During this second World War, though, a choice was made to create a new hero and wrap him in the red, white and blue of the flag of the United States-a living, breathing, battling embodiment of strong-willed freedom.  They named him Captain America, and he was every bit the symbol that those far-thinking men had hoped he would be.  Only one day they lost him.  The loss came as they had thought it would, in the heat of battle, warring against impossible odds for the highest stakes imaginable.  Even in tragedy, Captain America still succeeded.  Years later, with the future of the world in question and stakes rising around the globe, another decision has been put into play regarding the invention of not one, but several super-powered beings-and all of these heroes would come together under the close-knit supervision of General Nicholas Fury, one-eyed leader of S.H.I.E.L.D.  Fury has talked the American government into reactivating the Super-Soldier program that created Captain America.  Unfortunately, under its first incarnation, Dr. Bruce Banner created a rampaging entity that came to be known as the Hulk and all but got the program cancelled.  Banner takes the number two spot on the new program, and the lead designer role goes to Dr. Henry Pym, who has already begun experimenting with communication with ants and size-changing powers, calling himself first Ant-Man then Giant-Man.  His lovely wife Jan, hiding dark secrets of her own, is the Wasp.  Tony Stark, known throughout the world also as Iron Man, has also agreed to join the team for reasons of his own.  Even as the new Super-Soldier program goes on-line, Captain America turns up in suspended animation, a combination of the freezing waters of the North Atlantic Ocean and the super-soldier drug in his system.  At the same time, General Fury opens negotiations with Thor, a self-proclaimed deity, environmental activist, and New Age guru, resides in Norway but has powers over the weather that no one can explain.  A considerable amount of political jockeying has to take place before the team of super-powered individuals begin to assemble-and that cohesion also takes the reappearance of the Hulk, bigger and badder than ever, and way past control.  If Fury's Ultimates aren't careful, they could only be singing the opening stanza of their swan song.<br />Mark Millar, author of THE ULTIMATES, has also written THE AUTHORITY, ULTIMATE X-MEN, THE FLASH, SUPERMAN ADVENTURES, VAMPIRELLA, and THE COLUMN for Comic Book Resources.  Bryan Hitch has drawn for JLA, THE AUTHORITY, MARTIAN MANHUNTER, and WILDCATS.<br />Anyone who has read comics, especially Marvel Comics, is familiar with the genesis material for this Ultimate Marvel series.  The original Avengers (Thor, the Hulk, Iron Man, Ant-Man, and the Wondrous Wasp) gathered to defeat the menace of Thor's evil half-brother Loki in the 1960s.  Comic books have never been the same since.  THE ULTIMATES: SUPER-HUMAN is clearly a 21st century relaunch on that comic.  Mark Millar brings darkness and a razor-edged thrill to the series.  All of the characters have been made over in his or her own image, but with new oddities and twists that increase long-time readers' interest with a new look at favorite heroes, and offer an organic history of very real characters for the uninitiated.  In some ways, the flow of the story seems very familiar:  the Hulk is a rampaging monster trapped inside weak Bruce Banner, Captain America is rescued from a frozen wasteland after being preserved in suspended animation, Hank and Janet Pym are married, Thor was an emergency medical technician till something changed him into a Norse god (or revealed that aspect of himself), and Tony Stark/Iron Man is a rich playboy.  But the spins that Millar brings to the charactersand to the stories are unique and the stuff from which successful series spring from and run for years.  Bryan Hitch's artwork is jaw-droppingly beautiful, panels and splash pages of action and character interplay that seizes the eye and just won't let go.  Even after a reader has finished the graphic novel, he or she will probably find himself or herself wandering back through the pages just admiring the art.  The decision to set the first issue back during World War II was dead-on.  Seeing Captain America in action, especially dressed in Hitch's take on the familiar red, white and blue uniform (complete with pistol, ammo belt, and helmet) draws the reader into the story with the urgency of an all-or-nothing mission in the final days of the war.  The final couple pages showcasing Tony Star atop a snow-covered mountain peak, knowing he is Iron Man, whets the appetite for the next issue.  Each of the six issues of the monthly comic gathered in this graphic novel lends itself to the next, building on the action and sharp character byplay of the previous issue.<br />THE ULTIMATES is recommended to regular AVENGERS fans and to anyone who is only now discovering the breathtaking world of the graphic novel.  Readers that have learned to enjoy the graphic novel medium can't afford to pass up on a book that is definitely going to be an award contender.and to the stories are unique and the stuff from which successful series spring from and run for years.  Bryan Hitch's artwork is jaw-droppingly beautiful, panels and splash pages of action and character interplay that seizes the eye and just won't let go.  Even after a reader has finished the graphic novel, he or she will probably find himself or herself wandering back through the pages just admiring the art.  The decision to set the first issue back during World War II was dead-on.  Seeing Captain America in action, especially dressed in Hitch's take on the familiar red, white and blue uniform (complete with pistol, ammo belt, and helmet) draws the reader into the story with the urgency of an all-or-nothing mission in the final days of the war.  The final couple pages showcasing Tony Star atop a snow-covered mountain peak, knowing he is Iron Man, whets the appetite for the next issue.  Each of the six issues of the monthly comic gathered in this graphic novel lends itself to the next, building on the action and sharp character byplay of the previous issue.<br />THE ULTIMATES is recommended to regular AVENGERS fans and to anyone who is only now discovering the breathtaking world of the graphic novel.  Readers that have learned to enjoy the graphic novel medium can't afford to pass up on a book that is definitely going to be an award contender.	2002-09-04
US	50905801	RL7PDAUKAH74D	1563896702	301957744	Scene of the Crime: A Little Piece of Goodnight	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Eyes On Murder	Jack Herriman is a young private eye in San Francisco. He lives above Scene Of The Crime, an art gallery specializing in photos of crime scenes that were taken by his uncle Knut. Paul Raymonds, a SFPD detective sergeant and old partner of Jack's father, tells Jack he's sending a special client over in the morning. The relationship between Jack and Raymonds is strained, partly because Raymonds is cheating on Jack's aunt. The next morning, Jack meets Alex Jordan, a woman he figures out is Raymonds' lates girlfriend. Alex says her sister Maggie has vanished, and that she might be at a hippie commune called Lunarhouse. Once inside Lunarhouse, Jack finds himself up to his eyeballs in trouble. Maggie was there but is gone now, and some of the commune's big bouncers chase Jack from the scene. In no time at all, Jack's quest takes him through the dark alleys of the city, the bleak fall-out from emotional pain and suffering of a family, and force his own black rage and weakness to the surface so he has to finally deal with those things. Secrets are everywhere--even Jack has them.<br />Ed Brubaker currently scripts he BATMAN monthly comic, the CATWOMAN comic in which he revamped the character, POINT BLANK, SLEEPER, a SLAM BRADLEY back-up and THE COMPLETE LOWLIFE. Also a cartoonist, Brubaker's work has been nominated for many Eisner Awards. Michael Lark is a favorite artist on noirish-type comics. His graphic novel, THE LITTLE SISTER, written and drawn by him, based on Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novel of the same title. Other work includes TERMINAL CITY, short stories for Vertigo's WINTER'S EDGE, SUPERMAN: WAR OF THE WORLDS, and BATMAN: NINE LIVES.<br />Brubaker's natural feel for crime writing lends Jack Herriman's world the luster of a dark and gritty reality. San Francisco is accurately portrayed without ever stepping too close to becoming a travelogue or a stereotype. The mystery and murders at the heart of the story, the years of loss and betrayal that come to culmination and spark to unleash the homicidal blaze that rocks Jack's world and leave him both more and less than what he had been are all played out honestly. Brubaker's got a gift for dialogue and allows the characters to come on stage and introduce themselves in ways even the excellent first-person narration can't quite do. Jack's world is full: he has his uncle and his uncle's girlfriend, Paul Raymonds--his dead father's partner, Steve Ellington--a friend and private eye for a big investigations firm, and an ex-girlfriend of his own that he can't quite get over. Besides getting entranced in the rich mystery that Brubaker presents, readers also get to wander through the impressive tapestry of pain, misery, loss, guilt, and half-truths that are Jack's life. The story offers quiet jokes, deep characters drawn in a few knowing lines, and the intensity of a steadily depressed spring. As Jack narrows the scope of his investigation, readers know that all hell is about to break loose: especially when additional bodies drop out of the woodwork and the violence escalates. Michael Lark's artwork is awesome: dark and moody, readers can smell the smoke in the seedy bars and will check the seats before sitting.<br />SCENE OF THE CRIME: A LITTLE PIECE OF GOODNIGHT is a wonderful graphic novel in the vein of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe detective novels. Brubaker says that Ross MacDonald was his favorite crime novelist, and a lot of the movement and rhythm of this tale shows that interest. Private eye fiction lovers who have never discovered the intricate joy of a graphic novel couldn't find a better place to start exploring the genre. Fans who already are familiar with Brubaker's work on BATMAN or CATWOMAN will want to add this one to their collections if it's not already there.ination and spark to unleash the homicidal blaze that rocks Jack's world and leave him both more and less than what he had been are all played out honestly. Brubaker's got a gift for dialogue and allows the characters to come on stage and introduce themselves in ways even the excellent first-person narration can't quite do. Jack's world is full: he has his uncle and his uncle's girlfriend, Paul Raymonds--his dead father's partner, Steve Ellington--a friend and private eye for a big investigations firm, and an ex-girlfriend of his own that he can't quite get over. Besides getting entranced in the rich mystery that Brubaker presents, readers also get to wander through the impressive tapestry of pain, misery, loss, guilt, and half-truths that are Jack's life. The story offers quiet jokes, deep characters drawn in a few knowing lines, and the intensity of a steadily depressed spring. As Jack narrows the scope of his investigation, readers know that all hell is about to break loose: especially when additional bodies drop out of the woodwork and the violence escalates. Michael Lark's artwork is awesome: dark and moody, readers can smell the smoke in the seedy bars and will check the seats before sitting.<br />SCENE OF THE CRIME: A LITTLE PIECE OF GOODNIGHT is a wonderful graphic novel in the vein of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe detective novels. Brubaker says that Ross MacDonald was his favorite crime novelist, and a lot of the movement and rhythm of this tale shows that interest. Private eye fiction lovers who have never discovered the intricate joy of a graphic novel couldn't find a better place to start exploring the genre. Fans who already are familiar with Brubaker's work on BATMAN or CATWOMAN will want to add this one to their collections if it's not already there.	2002-08-30
US	50905801	R20W86FAH897ZY	1563896206	59336312	Justice Be Done (JSA: Justice Society of America, Book 1)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Icons	The Justice Society of America was the premiere superhero group of the 1940s.  Now, Wesley Dodds--once known as the crime-fighter the Sandman--falls victim to an old foe who is looking for the Fate-Child, the baby that will grow up to inheirit the mystical garb of Dr. Fate.  The elder statesmen of the superhero world gather at Dodds' gravesite.  Jay Garrick, the Flash.  Ted Grant, Wildcat.  Wonder Woman.  Hourman, who carries within his synthetic makeup the remnants of Rex \\"Tick-Tock\\" Tyler.  Alan Scott, the original Green Lantern who now goes by the name Sentinel.  Dinah Lance, daughter of the original Black Canary.  While attending the funeral of their old friend and comrade-in-arms, the surviving members of the JSA as well as young heroes witness the death of Fate, the man who currently carries the weapons of Dr. Fate.  They are attacked by undead warriors Sentinel names as the Sons of Anubis who strive to take the weapons from the dead man.  That murder and attack, following so closely on the heels of the death of Wesley Dodds, unites these warriors old and new and brings them face-to-face with a villain that has lived for ages.<br />David Goyer has become an author of repute.  He wrote the screenplay for BLADE and BLADE 2, starring Wesley Snipes, in the movie adaptation of the Marvel Comics hero.  He's also written NICK FURY, AGENT OF S.H.I.E.L.D., DARK CITY, and THE PUPPET MASTERS.  James Robinson, the co-author of this graphic novel, has written THE GOLDEN AGE, LEGENDS OF THE DARK KNIGHT: BLADES, TERMINATOR, STARMAN, VIGILANTE, and LEAVE IT TO CHANCE .  Artists for the first graphic novel gathering the first five issues of the on-going series are Scott Benefiel, Stephen Sadowski, and Derec Aucoin, with inks by Mark Propst and Michael Bair.<br />A combination of nostalgia and stunning story-telling enhanced by some of the best comics artwork in the business, JSA: JUSTICE BE DONE succeeds as a treat for the eyes and the heart of the long-time comics follower as well as newbies who take an interest in these legends.  Goyer and Robinson's character interplay and dialogue works together to bring a depth to the story as well as a richness to their imagined world.  The narrative on the panels is taut and driving, voice-overs for the action that explodes from the pages.  The full page splashes of heroes like Hawkgirl and Dr. Fate are absolute treasures.  Long-time fans of the JSA will enjoy the way the new authors pay homage to Gardner F. Fox, the first of the writers for the series back in the 1940s, when they split the group into teams to send to missions in different parts of the world.  That was very much a Gardner Fox plot device.  And they play fairly with Roy Thomas, the scribe for INFINITY, INC., who created the character of the Silver Scarab, Hector Hall.<br />JSA is one of the best books currently being done in the market.  Goyer, because of his training in the film world, possess a cameraman's eye for shots, and Robinson's skills lead him into deep and rich characterizations.  They compliment each other, but standing apart on different projects shows that each writer is nearly equally as skilled.  Readers will note that the writers obviously have a good time playing off of each other.  This graphic novel compliation of the first five issues states the JSA's purpose, to thoroughly entertain the reader and dazzle him or her with gorgeous artwork.  Comics lovers who haven't yet tuned into the JSA will find this volume is the perfect place to start.well as newbies who take an interest in these legends.  Goyer and Robinson's character interplay and dialogue works together to bring a depth to the story as well as a richness to their imagined world.  The narrative on the panels is taut and driving, voice-overs for the action that explodes from the pages.  The full page splashes of heroes like Hawkgirl and Dr. Fate are absolute treasures.  Long-time fans of the JSA will enjoy the way the new authors pay homage to Gardner F. Fox, the first of the writers for the series back in the 1940s, when they split the group into teams to send to missions in different parts of the world.  That was very much a Gardner Fox plot device.  And they play fairly with Roy Thomas, the scribe for INFINITY, INC., who created the character of the Silver Scarab, Hector Hall.<br />JSA is one of the best books currently being done in the market.  Goyer, because of his training in the film world, possess a cameraman's eye for shots, and Robinson's skills lead him into deep and rich characterizations.  They compliment each other, but standing apart on different projects shows that each writer is nearly equally as skilled.  Readers will note that the writers obviously have a good time playing off of each other.  This graphic novel compliation of the first five issues states the JSA's purpose, to thoroughly entertain the reader and dazzle him or her with gorgeous artwork.  Comics lovers who haven't yet tuned into the JSA will find this volume is the perfect place to start.	2002-08-29
US	50905801	RDWBSJQ70UJ0	0451458893	380570211	Star Risk Ltd. #1	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Slam-Bang Space Opera	After years spent as an Alliance Marine, M'chel Riss steps out on her own and joins forces with Friedrich Von Baldur, an ex-Colonel with the Alliance Marines and a man whose job she ultimately cost by taking on an independent snatch-and-grab assignment. Since both are down-on-their-luck mercenaries, they go into business to form Star Risk, LTD, a go-anywhere, do-anything agency. In short time, they're joined by Jasmine King--who might not be human at all but is terribly efficient with all things covert, Grok--a furred alien who specializes in intelligence work, and Chas Goodnight--an augmented human who has a penchant for women, violence, and thievery and who has to be broken out of a maximum security prison to join the team as a bribe for the team to get their first job. Star Risk, LTD's first assignment is a security operation on an asteroid mining venture for Transkootenay. The asteroid miners are plagued with hit-and-git strikes by unknown raiders that are entirely too well-informed about successful finds in the asteroids. The mercenary heroes plunge into danger, trying to make sense of the twisted clues left by the raiders, stay ahead of corporate headhunters looking for an excuse to fire them, and avoid potentially lethal confrontations with their rival, Cerberus Systems Security.<br />Chris Bunch is an old hand at military SF as well as fantasy. With Allan Cole, he co-authored the Sten series as well as military historical novels. On his own, he's written the LAST LEGION series and the SHADOW WARRIOR series. There are also several stand-alone SF novels and fantasy novels. His military background serves him in good stead in these novels. Before turning to novels, he was a television writer for twenty years.<br />STAR RISK, LTD. is a fun book. The action jumps off the page and keeps the pace at a brisk double-time. Enough character growth is done to keep the reader's attention and make all the major characters memorable. The dialogue between the characters and the laconic, off-hand way that Bunch throws new words/terms at the audience and gets his meaning across is great. Although Bunch follows some conventional steps in the progression of this first in the series, he does so well, with the calm, sure touch of the seasoned pro.<br />The only real downfall of the novel is that it proceeds at too brisk a pace at time. The novel is easily engaging and easy to follow, but some passages moved too quickly, flicking back and forth with the intensity of a television episode. The visuals came across dramatically, but some of the emotional texture was lost.<br />As a romp, STAR RISK, LTD. is a good investment for any fan of military SF. Readers who enjoy David Drake, John Ringo, Steve White, Dan Cragg and David Sherman, and David Weber will enjoy this novel and be eagerly awaiting Bunch's next entry in the Star Risk, Ltd. series.the laconic, off-hand way that Bunch throws new words/terms at the audience and gets his meaning across is great. Although Bunch follows some conventional steps in the progression of this first in the series, he does so well, with the calm, sure touch of the seasoned pro.<br />The only real downfall of the novel is that it proceeds at too brisk a pace at time. The novel is easily engaging and easy to follow, but some passages moved too quickly, flicking back and forth with the intensity of a television episode. The visuals came across dramatically, but some of the emotional texture was lost.<br />As a romp, STAR RISK, LTD. is a good investment for any fan of military SF. Readers who enjoy David Drake, John Ringo, Steve White, Dan Cragg and David Sherman, and David Weber will enjoy this novel and be eagerly awaiting Bunch's next entry in the Star Risk, Ltd. series.	2002-08-27
US	50905801	RVO0SAS9NDVGK	0785108335	334523396	Exiles Vol. 1: Down the Rabbit Hole (Astonishing X-Men)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Another Time, Another Place	EXILES brings together six X-Men from different realities and sets them loose on missions to correct time-lines in still other realities.  Mission: Impossible with mutants with a twist of \\"Marvel What-If\\".  A mysterious being known only as the Time-Broker gathers Blink (born in the Age of Apocalypse), Nocturne (daughter of Nightcrawler and the Scarlet Witch), Thunderbird (another incarnation of John Proudstar), Magnus (son of Magneto and Rogue), Mimic (another incarnation of Calvin Rankin), and Morph (who comes with pratfall humor and is an incarnation of a character inspired by the X-Men cartoon series) and reveals their assignments.  If they have any hope of returning to their different time-lines and altering the terrible events that took place there, they must straighten out various other time-lines first.  Two different time-lines are presented in this graphic novel.  In the first, the Exiles take on the most powerful evil mutant in the world:  Charles Xavier.  And in the second mission, they have to destroy Dark Phoenix instead of helping rescue Jean Grey.<br />Judd Winick was on MTV's \\"The Real World\\" and a good friend of Pedro Zamora, who later died of AIDS complications.  Winick took up the lecture circuit regarding AIDS as he'd agreed to do for Zamora, and later did a book about the friendship called PEDRO AND ME.  While on the show, Winick also launched a weekly comic strip, NUTS & BOLTS, and a later spin-off, FRUMPY THE CLOWN.  He did ROAD TRIP, an Eisner nomination, and THE ADVENTURES OF BARRY WEEN, BOY GENIUS.  Working with DC Comics, he has been writing the GREEN LANTERN monthly title, a ten-issue backup in Detective Comics, JOSIE MAC, and has upcoming projects for Vertigo and a Green Lantern/Green Arrow crossover.  Mike McKone has worked on several X-Men titles, VEXT with Keith Giffen, SUPERMAN, MAGNUS ROBOT FIGHTER, HULK, PUNISHER, THOR, SPIDER-MAN, JUSTICE LEAGUE, and many others.<br />EXILES gathers the first four issues of the monthly comic series into a graphic novel that stands well on its own.  The story is familiar to many fans of comics and science fiction, and it's interesting to see the different way worlds and characters could have gone.  Winick's handling of Morph, the team funnyman and pratfall king, stays just this side of going over the top.  The two worlds revealed in the graphic novel are interesting.  Featuring Charles Xavier, the founder of the X-Men, was a given, and the rewriting of the Dark Phoenix saga wasn't too surprising.  Where the book really succeeds, though, is in Mike McKone's art, especially with long-time pal and partner Mark McKenna laying in the inks with Cannon and Jimmy Palmiotti.  The panels explode off the page in color, vibrancy, and immediacy.  Another nice touch is that no one in this series appears to be safe.  One of the main characters is killed halfway through the graphic novel, only to be replaced almost instantly with another twisted version of someone near and dear to the X-universe.  The potential of the series is great and can bring about the same sense of wonder that powered the WHAT IF series.<br />Given the overall framework of the comic series, these first two stories lack a little.  They're not overly original and despite the premise, there isn't enough real tension or development of character.  Of course, Winick is trying to introduce his characters and the concept at the same time, and even kills off one of the major players.  There is also a tad bit of long-windedness from time to time that covers over the beautiful artwork.<br />Regular readers of Marvel's X-books will definitely want to take a look at this spin on their characters and their worlds, and Mike McKone's artwork is absolutely worth collecting for any comics fan.s into a graphic novel that stands well on its own.  The story is familiar to many fans of comics and science fiction, and it's interesting to see the different way worlds and characters could have gone.  Winick's handling of Morph, the team funnyman and pratfall king, stays just this side of going over the top.  The two worlds revealed in the graphic novel are interesting.  Featuring Charles Xavier, the founder of the X-Men, was a given, and the rewriting of the Dark Phoenix saga wasn't too surprising.  Where the book really succeeds, though, is in Mike McKone's art, especially with long-time pal and partner Mark McKenna laying in the inks with Cannon and Jimmy Palmiotti.  The panels explode off the page in color, vibrancy, and immediacy.  Another nice touch is that no one in this series appears to be safe.  One of the main characters is killed halfway through the graphic novel, only to be replaced almost instantly with another twisted version of someone near and dear to the X-universe.  The potential of the series is great and can bring about the same sense of wonder that powered the WHAT IF series.<br />Given the overall framework of the comic series, these first two stories lack a little.  They're not overly original and despite the premise, there isn't enough real tension or development of character.  Of course, Winick is trying to introduce his characters and the concept at the same time, and even kills off one of the major players.  There is also a tad bit of long-windedness from time to time that covers over the beautiful artwork.<br />Regular readers of Marvel's X-books will definitely want to take a look at this spin on their characters and their worlds, and Mike McKone's artwork is absolutely worth collecting for any comics fan.	2002-08-24
US	50905801	R1FEJ2BZ3CGL5Y	078510853X	258827225	Startling Stories: Banner / The Hulk	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Of Man And Monster	STARTLING STORIES:  BANNER is a hard-edged, adrenaline-driven novel about scientist Bruce Banner and the raging gamma-bomb induced monster that rages within him.  The story opens with the Hulk in full rampage tearing through an entire city, then moves into the clean-up attempt done later.  Doc Samson arrives and the political spin to deny knowledge that the destruction was caused by the Hulk begins.  The story picks up with Banner's reaction to all the carnage his alter ego has caused, but the reader sympathizes totally with this man who cannot control the monster within him.  As the tale turns more suspenseful, Doc Samson succeeds in tracking down his quarry and capturing him, but the interrelations between Samson, Banner, the Hulk, and General Ross only become deeper and more complex.  Ross has a secret fate he's planned for Banner, and he's not telling anyone.<br />Award-winning author Brian Azzarello is also the author of the monthly comics series 100 BULLETS, BATMAN/DEATHBLOW, and some special John Constantine HELLBLAZER comics.  Richard Corben is a noted artist who worked in magazines such as EERIE, CREEPY, and VAMPIRELLA, but his work pops up nearly everywhere.  The Hulk needs no introduction:  one part nuclear physicist and one part raging monster, the Hulk has been presented in comics, novels, a live-action television series, cartoon series, and is the subject of an upcoming movie.<br />Azzarello is a gifted writer and it shows in this graphic novel.  He stays off the first few pages, letting the action he's written be played out in Corben's panels.  Dialogue balloons would have been incredibly out of place during the Hulk's destruction of a city.  Choosing to show the rescue efforts after the Hulk has been through the city is amazingly done, cueing up all the readers who have watched various destructions seen of late on CNN.  The mood, atmosphere and texture of those panels is so realistic the the reader is weighted with emotion.  Not only is the story done fantastically well, but it is a great story.  Peter David had an excellent 10-year run (something that just isn't done in comics then or now) on the Hulk, but in four short issues, Azzarello dives into the hearts of the man and the monster and relates a twisted, back-biting tale of what it must truly be like to be hunted and hated and trapped in the body of an unkillable, bloodthirsty monster.  Fans have wondered for years at things that Azzarello and Corben cover in mere panels but with the emotional force of a bodyblow.  The artist and writer get the reader's attention with what feels like a blow from a 2x4, then keep the hits coming until the story is finished and the reader is exhausted with emotion and suspense.<br />Fans of Brian Azzarello are going to find a different story here than ones they may be used to in 100 BULLETS and some of the other crime work that he does, but they'll be rewarded with the graphic novel starring the Hulk.  Azzarello is at his best when writing about characters in over their heads by circumstances beyond their control.  STARTLING STORIES:  BANNER is also for fans of the Hulk who don't mind seeing a different interpretation on the character.  Corben's fans will love the action-driven panels and the (literally) exploding use of colors.  Besides being a great Hulk graphic novel, the book is an excellent story for anyone that likes the medium.e fantastically well, but it is a great story.  Peter David had an excellent 10-year run (something that just isn't done in comics then or now) on the Hulk, but in four short issues, Azzarello dives into the hearts of the man and the monster and relates a twisted, back-biting tale of what it must truly be like to be hunted and hated and trapped in the body of an unkillable, bloodthirsty monster.  Fans have wondered for years at things that Azzarello and Corben cover in mere panels but with the emotional force of a bodyblow.  The artist and writer get the reader's attention with what feels like a blow from a 2x4, then keep the hits coming until the story is finished and the reader is exhausted with emotion and suspense.<br />Fans of Brian Azzarello are going to find a different story here than ones they may be used to in 100 BULLETS and some of the other crime work that he does, but they'll be rewarded with the graphic novel starring the Hulk.  Azzarello is at his best when writing about characters in over their heads by circumstances beyond their control.  STARTLING STORIES:  BANNER is also for fans of the Hulk who don't mind seeing a different interpretation on the character.  Corben's fans will love the action-driven panels and the (literally) exploding use of colors.  Besides being a great Hulk graphic novel, the book is an excellent story for anyone that likes the medium.	2002-08-22
US	50905801	R2MPTDLCCSKVBE	0786860820	879328988	Burning Angel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Louisiana Gothic	Dave Robicheaux, ex-New Orleans homicide detective and now a detective for the Iberia Parish Sheriff's Office, responds to a call from Sonny Boy Marsallus and ends up putting his life on the line.  Sonny Boy is an ex-tough from Iberville, Dave's old stomping grounds, a man who worked the streets with steely grim resolve but somehow kept a generous heart as well.  When his business saving fallen angels from the Giacano Family grew too successful, Sonny Boy traded in the streets of Iberville for the jungles of South America and ended up working for years as a mercenary and for the DEA.  During a brief meeting, Sonny Boy asks Dave to keep a journal safe for him.  He doesn't explain what's in the journal, but does take time to say dangerous people are looking for it.  Three days later, the woman Sonny Boy gave a copy of the book to ends up murdered, and Sonny Boy has disappeared.  Before long, Dave unearths connections that link Sonny Boy to dangerous ex-CIA types and to the local Mafia figure, John Polycarp Giacano.  At the same time, Bertie Fortenot, the black woman who helped raise Dave, asks him to look into a real estate matter for her.  Moleen Bertrand, one of the old money families in Iberia Parish, has threatened legal action to get the black families off the land his family, according to Bertie, gave to the black families scores of years ago.  Dave probes both cases, finding them inextricably linked and having to reach back into a case nearly twenty years old to tie everything together.<br />James Lee Burke is an amazing author with a growing body of terrific work.  On some levels, his novels work as beach reads and on other levels they are morality plays and presentations of philosophical discussions.  His work also includes healthy doses of social commentary, perception, and observation.  Burke is, like his series hero, a man who has been banged around by life and has survived only by adhering to strong convictions and faith.  He's written several Dave Robicheaux novels, and has another series about Texas attorney, Billy Bob Holland.  In addition to his two bestseller series, Burke has written several award-winning standalone novels such as:  THE CONVICT, HALF OF PARADISE, THE LOST GET-BACK BOOGIE, and TWO FOR TEXAS.<br />BURNING ANGEL is a good book of crime and suspense, but where the novel really shines is in the prose.  James Lee Burke is a poet, a skilled craftsman who knows how to use words.  He paints with emotion, and he textures his world in guilt and nobility, self-doubt and a resilience of morality.  No one writes with a stronger lyrical resonance than James Lee Burke.  And no one paints scenes or people with the same uncanny skill.  When a reader follows Dave Robicheaux into a scene from the novel, that reader can feel wherever that place is.  Burke also has the knowledge and love for those places, too, because he wraps up bits of history (both personal and geographical and political) behind those places and areas.  The interpersonal relationships between Robicheaux and his family, friends, co-workers, and boss also round out the picture of a solid man rather than a mere cardboard character.  By doing this, he also rounds out and lifts the characters around Robicheaux.  The author is also skilled in the use of drama, tension, suspense, and mystery-especially when tying current mysteries to ones that come rattling out of the closets from the past.  In one last tip of the hat to his Southern roots, Burke's title and thrust of the story alludes to one of the most Southern of tales, the Gothic-that bit of the supernatural world that is seen just from the corner of the eye that must be believed in or taken on faith rather than made tangible.<br />The only weakness BURNING ANGEL shows is in trying to tie everything together at the end.  Events become blurred and a little disorganized, and a few big leaps of logic are made to give the villains proper motivations.<br />James Lee Burke is an amazing author who offersup scintillating prose, deep characters, and a rich tapestry of physical environment and history.  Fans of Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Dennis Lehane, and Elmore Leonard will be happy with this book.up scintillating prose, deep characters, and a rich tapestry of physical environment and history.  Fans of Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Dennis Lehane, and Elmore Leonard will be happy with this book.	2002-08-21
US	50905801	R14VHNCAZDQ8LI	1563897113	212663604	100 Bullets Vol. 2: Split Second Chance	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Fistful of Bad Dreams	100 BULLETS: SPLIT SECOND CHANCE is the second graphic novel from the award-winning monthly 100 BULLETS comic book put out by DC Comics' Vertigo line.  Again, series writer Brian Azzarello keeps the mix violent and unpredictable, fusing the cold shadows of the street with the hot fury of betrayal.  The book opens up with a two-part story, \\"Short Con, Long Odds\\", about Chucky and Pony, two childhood friends who grow up to be gamblers.  Then Agent Graves, the unknown man of mystery who always kicks the stories into high gear, shows up carrying a briefcase loaded with a semi-automatic pistol and 100 rounds of untraceable ammunition.  He tells Chucky that Pony set him up for a seven-year fall in prison that he should have taken--at the same time that Pony is stealing Chucky's woman.  The biggest risk either of Chucky and Pony ever took was being friends with each other, and that's about to change.  \\"Day, Hour, Minute...Man\\" offers up a quick peek into the mysterious agency that Mr. Graves works for, and shows Mr. Graves coldly dealing out vengeance of his own.  \\"The Right Ear, Left In The Cold\\" tells the story of Cole Burns, an ice cream man who sells ice cream and stolen cigarettes out of his truck, and who is much more than he appears to be.  Mr. Graves gives him a briefcase and the 100 rounds of ammunition, then tells him that Goldy Petrovic is the man responsible for the burning death of Cole's grandmother in the nursing home.  Besides wanting vengeance, Cole also has to deal with another ice cream man trying to take his beat.  But most of all, Cole Burns is a man on a mission to find himself.  \\"Heartbreak Sunnyside Up\\" is another stand-alone tale that is brutal and violent, and all too real.  Lilly Roach is a waitress in a diner, and a woman who has lost her teenage daughter to the streets.  Then, one day, Agent Graves shows up with the story of what really happened to Lilly's daughter--and a briefcase containing a pistol and 100 rounds of untraceable ammunition.  Even the back story in this particular episode resonates with truth and pain directly from the real world.  The book wraps with a three-chapter arc, \\"Parlez Kung Vous\\", that takes the reader back to Dizzy Cordova, the heroine introduced in the first graphic novel.  She's in Paris on assignment, hooking up with a man named Mr. Branch.  She has a lot in common with Mr. Branch.  He was a reporter, very different from the barrio life Dizzy knew, but he was also offered the briefcase and 100 bullets--only Mr. Branch didn't use them and his life is now in jeopardy.  The mystery surrounding the Trust, the Minutemen, and Agent Graves is cleared up a little, but only enough to reveal that more twists and turns are ahead.<br />Besides writing 100 BULLETS, Brian Azzarello has also worked on the HELLBLAZER series, BATMAN/DEATHBLOW, the JONNY DOUBLE mini-series for DC COMICS, and STARTLING STORIES: BANNER, CAGE, and SPIDER-MAN for Marvel Comics.  Eduard Risso, the co-creator of 100 BULLETS, has also drawn for BATMAN, the horror anthology FLINCH, the JONNY DOUBLE mini-series, and comic books in his native France.<br />100 BULLETS: SPLIT SECOND CHANCE continues the same throbbing beat of violence and sharp emotion summoned up in the previous graphic novel.  Each volume, so far there are four, stands on its own merits, but there is something to gain by reading them in order.  As always, Azzarello's characters are sharply drawn and come across as real people with real problems.  Primarily those problems are always about betrayal and the need for vengeance.  Azzarello moves easily about the urban landscape of the real world, and his stories echo with current events.  His dialogue puts a fine point on what could simply be just a collection of out-for-revenge stories.  The characters are torn between the need for vengeance, the loss they're going to suffer when they act on that need or choose not to, and they're torn over the fact that once they follow up on that path to vengeance thattheir lives are going to be forever changed.  Risso's artwork displays those worlds, those streets, and those emotions with knowing ease, while at the same time conveying the heaviness of life to someone living in the shadows.  The fact that the vengance stories are only pearls on a string, and that the string is actually part of a much greater story Azzarello is telling is awesome.  Readers can start to see the beginning bones of that story in these tales, and the imagination will reach to fill in the other gaps.<br />This graphic novel is definitely recommended to fans of Azzarello and Risso's work.  Also, any fans of noir and action movies will find a lot here to whet those appetites in the brilliant dialogue and panels that accompany these hard-edged stories.  Comics fans that regularly read Ed Brubaker, Greg Rucka, and Chuck Dixon will find a new favorite author in Brian Azzarello.their lives are going to be forever changed.  Risso's artwork displays those worlds, those streets, and those emotions with knowing ease, while at the same time conveying the heaviness of life to someone living in the shadows.  The fact that the vengance stories are only pearls on a string, and that the string is actually part of a much greater story Azzarello is telling is awesome.  Readers can start to see the beginning bones of that story in these tales, and the imagination will reach to fill in the other gaps.<br />This graphic novel is definitely recommended to fans of Azzarello and Risso's work.  Also, any fans of noir and action movies will find a lot here to whet those appetites in the brilliant dialogue and panels that accompany these hard-edged stories.  Comics fans that regularly read Ed Brubaker, Greg Rucka, and Chuck Dixon will find a new favorite author in Brian Azzarello.	2002-08-16
US	50905801	R3T5WCOJXA4GLY	0785108432	76768866	Elektra: The Scorpio Key (Daredevil)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Elektra-fying	Ninja-for-hire, Elektra, once killed by Daredevil's greatest foe returns in ELEKTRA: THE SCORPIO KEY.  In the past, she had been the world's most feared assassin.  In the past, she had been Daredevil's lover.  In the past, she had been killed only to rise again.  The story opens with Elektra confronting the man who killed her father.  She holds the guy at sai-point and begins telling him a story, letting him know she isn't going to kill him--yet.  She tells him how the story began a week ago in Paris, how she was approached by S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Stanley Dreyfuss and commissioned to assassinate Saddam Abed Dasam, ruler of Iraq, and steal an ornate box adorned with two black scorpions poised to lash out with their tails.  Of course, there is a kicker, HYDRA, the evil organization that constantly wars against S.H.I.E.L.D. and the Western powers, lurks in the shadows.  Elektra turns the offer down flat until she is personally contacted by Colonel Nick Fury, legendary World War II hero and rough-and-tough agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.  Even when talking to Nick Fury face-to-face, Elektra is reluctant to take the deal, in spite of Fury's offer to erase her record and take her off the Most Wanted list.  Only when she finds out the true stakes of the high-level espionage capter--the fabled Scorpio Key--does Elektra swing into action.  And her decisions are not going to be popular with the people trying to manipulate her.<br />Brian Michael Bendis is a very popular writer among legions of comic book fans.  In addition to creating and writing his award-winning series, POWERS, he also regularly scripts ULTIMATE SPIDER-MAN, ALIAS, and DAREDEVIL.  All of his work is fast-tracked into the graphic novel format.  Chuck Austen is a good artist and has done work on U.S. WAR MACHINE, but has recently taken over the writing chores on UNCANNY X-MEN.  The colorist, Nathan Eyring, developed a style over the books that was simply amazing.<br />Bendis' dialogue, as always with any project he touches, was great and lent itself to explosive artistic rendering.  Even the scene where Elektra held Stanley at bay in Paris with the sai under the table showed the motion and the action about to break loose.  The action sequences detailed by Austen are absolutely mesmerizing, and--at times--chilling in their execution (literally!) and raw savagery.  In Austen's capable hands, Elektra becomes a poetess of death.  Nick Fury comes through as the character most Marvel Comics fans know and love.  He's tough and irascible, totally devoted to his view of the world and what should be done in it.  Nathan Eyring performed an outstanding display of colors, shading mood, action, and suspense with a skill seldom seen in the comics format.<br />As good as Bendis is, he was a little loose on this graphic novel.  Elektra begins by offering a story that lets the reader inside her mind and heart, but by the fourth section of the story, she is distant from the reader, only a series of images played out against a series of media interviews.  The fifth chapter keeps Elektra distant, making the reader guess what she is feeling and thinking when there was so much more in the beginning.  Also, the twist with Stanley's true nature was totally unexpected and seemed almost to come out of left field although it was planned.  The final chapter in the graphic novel really doesn't mesh well with the first five that complete a whole story, but the inclusion helps Elektra fans keep the series all together in trade paperback format.<br />ELEKTRA: THE SCORPIO KEY is recommended for fans of Bendis' and Austen's work.  Comics fans interested in the field of espionage and Elektra will also want to add this one to their collections.  People who enjoy Ed Brubaker's and Greg Rucka's writing will want to give Bendis a try if they've not encountered him before.  He knows a lot of tricks as a writer, and he shows quite a few of them here.s, was great and lent itself to explosive artistic rendering.  Even the scene where Elektra held Stanley at bay in Paris with the sai under the table showed the motion and the action about to break loose.  The action sequences detailed by Austen are absolutely mesmerizing, and--at times--chilling in their execution (literally!) and raw savagery.  In Austen's capable hands, Elektra becomes a poetess of death.  Nick Fury comes through as the character most Marvel Comics fans know and love.  He's tough and irascible, totally devoted to his view of the world and what should be done in it.  Nathan Eyring performed an outstanding display of colors, shading mood, action, and suspense with a skill seldom seen in the comics format.<br />As good as Bendis is, he was a little loose on this graphic novel.  Elektra begins by offering a story that lets the reader inside her mind and heart, but by the fourth section of the story, she is distant from the reader, only a series of images played out against a series of media interviews.  The fifth chapter keeps Elektra distant, making the reader guess what she is feeling and thinking when there was so much more in the beginning.  Also, the twist with Stanley's true nature was totally unexpected and seemed almost to come out of left field although it was planned.  The final chapter in the graphic novel really doesn't mesh well with the first five that complete a whole story, but the inclusion helps Elektra fans keep the series all together in trade paperback format.<br />ELEKTRA: THE SCORPIO KEY is recommended for fans of Bendis' and Austen's work.  Comics fans interested in the field of espionage and Elektra will also want to add this one to their collections.  People who enjoy Ed Brubaker's and Greg Rucka's writing will want to give Bendis a try if they've not encountered him before.  He knows a lot of tricks as a writer, and he shows quite a few of them here.	2002-08-15
US	50905801	ROVQJ7JA13A2P	1563896451	61336458	100 Bullets Vol. 1: First Shot, Last Call	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Prime Crime	Dizzy Cordova is a gangster serving time in prison.  While shes locked up, her husband and infant son are killed in what is believed to be a vicious drive-by shooting, something that is typical in the neighborhood where the lived.  After seven years, Dizzy is paroled and takes a bus home.  Only she knows shes not going home for real because no one is there who really misses her.  While on the bus, a man meets her and introduces himself as Agent Graves.  He doesnt mention what hes an agent of.  Only a few brief moments pass, then Graves mentions that what happened to Dizzys husband and son was terrible.  He goes on to say that their murderers are still out there, and that theyre two crooked detectives.  Dizzy cant believe what the old man says.  Then, without batting an eye, Graves gives her a briefcase with a semi-automatic and what he promises are 100 rounds of untraceable ammunition.  He tells her that she can have vengeance if she wants, and that no one will arrest her for shooting the men that killed her family because the bullets will keep her out of the hands of the law.  Dizzy doesnt believe Graves for a minute, but she cant figure his angle.  Later, at home, Dizzy finds that the old neighborhood is exactly the same except that everything has changed.  She follows her brother and sees the hot car ring that hes part of.  And the two detectives Graves said murdered her husband and her infant son arrest her.  Caught with the pistol on her, Dizzy knows shes headed right back to prison for violating her parole.  Only when the detectives run the pistol and the bullets, they find that they have to let her go.  Dizzy cant believe this, and her brain starts working frantically.  If Graves was right about the pistol and the bullets, what else was Graves right about?  The answers surprise Dizzy as much as they put her in danger, and her life will change again because of violence and betrayal.  Dizzys tale takes up the first three stories in the graphic novel.  The last two stories in the volume belong to Lee Dolan, a down-and-out bartender in a dive.  Lee was once a rising and promising restaurant owner.  Then one day, kiddie porn was mysteriously found on his computer and the police were notified.  During his stay in prison, unable to prove his innocence, Lee loses everything:  his wife, his kids, the restaurant, and any hope for a future.  That all changes the day a man who identifies himself as Agent Graves walks into the bar.  Graves says he knows who set Lee up, and he leaves Lee with a briefcase containing a pistol and 100 rounds of untraceable ammunitionand a chance for revenge.<br />Brian Azzarello is an award-winning comics writer.  Besides creating and writing 100 BULLETS, Azzarello has also done scripting chores on HELLBLAZER, STARTLING STORIES: BANNER, SPIDER-MAN, GANGLAND, CAGE, BATMAN, DEATHBLOW and JONNY DOUBLE.  Eduardo Risso, listed as the co-creator of 100 BULLETS, has done work on the ALIENS property, BATMAN, TRANSMETROPOLITAN, WEIRD WESTERNTALES, and short pieces in several comics.<br />100 BULLETS: FIRST SHOT, LAST CALL is an excellent addition to the crime noir field.  Azzarello has a real feel for characters that are bent, twisted, and banged up from having hard lives and bad experiences.  No one in the books seems to be truly evil, just as no one seems to be truly good.  Dizzy Cordova is a heroine, but shes also flawed, having to make her way back from the darkness she once embraced and thought was normal in her life.  Lee Dolan is also a sympathetic loser figure.  Lee had it all, but as his story reveals, he also had a jones for sex and hookers that was either lurking within him or playing itself out on the computer searching for porn sites.  The mean streets and the harsh cities that Azzarello plays his stories out against ring as true organisms.  His language is of the street, of the poorly educated, a shortsighted, and yet street-smart individuals who are predators and the prey, and quite often turn out to be both.  Combined with Rissos artwork, the graphic novel appears real, like opening a book to a street scene in the seamier side of the city where no one goes after dark.  Risso makes the characters unique, just as he makes his city part of the atmosphere of the tension and the action of the story.  The mix of the two character-driven stories in this opening opus of what so far has turned out to be four graphic novels is a great choice.  Dizzy and Lee are characters that, though flawed and never what a reader will want to be, somehow reach past the barriers of social restraint and make the audience want to take them under their wing at least for the duration of the stories.  The stories dont end happily.  Thats purely for fairy tales.  But the stories do end right, probably the only true way they could end and be faithful to the world, the character, and the situations Dizzy and Lee find themselves in.<br />The graphic novel is enthusiastically recommended to any fan of noir crime stories, whether in novels, movies or comics, whether of the 1950s or of todays world.  100 BULLETS:  FIRST SHOT, LAST CALL is also recommended for people who have never read comics, or havent read them since they were for kids.  This collection isnt meant for kids; they are for the comic-reading adult audience that can appreciate really graphic tales of blood, violence, and heart laced with guilt, fear, and adrenaline.dators and the prey, and quite often turn out to be both.  Combined with Rissos artwork, the graphic novel appears real, like opening a book to a street scene in the seamier side of the city where no one goes after dark.  Risso makes the characters unique, just as he makes his city part of the atmosphere of the tension and the action of the story.  The mix of the two character-driven stories in this opening opus of what so far has turned out to be four graphic novels is a great choice.  Dizzy and Lee are characters that, though flawed and never what a reader will want to be, somehow reach past the barriers of social restraint and make the audience want to take them under their wing at least for the duration of the stories.  The stories dont end happily.  Thats purely for fairy tales.  But the stories do end right, probably the only true way they could end and be faithful to the world, the character, and the situations Dizzy and Lee find themselves in.<br />The graphic novel is enthusiastically recommended to any fan of noir crime stories, whether in novels, movies or comics, whether of the 1950s or of todays world.  100 BULLETS:  FIRST SHOT, LAST CALL is also recommended for people who have never read comics, or havent read them since they were for kids.  This collection isnt meant for kids; they are for the comic-reading adult audience that can appreciate really graphic tales of blood, violence, and heart laced with guilt, fear, and adrenaline.	2002-08-14
US	50905801	R25QG99ELJSYZL	0785108084	2204560	Daredevil Vol. 2: Parts of a Hole	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Blind Love	Daredevil, blind hero of Hell's Kitchen in New York City, unexpectedly finds love in a deaf woman named Maya Lopez, who has as many secrets and complications as he does.  In this graphic novel, Matt Murdock is recovering from the loss of Karen Page, his lover, and feels empty inside.  Even though he and Foggy Nelson, his law partner, are stepping out into their own and about to start doing great things, Murdock's life isn't complete.  He stands in the shadow of Wilson Fisk, a gargantuan crime figure known as the Kingpin.  When a witness comes forward to the offices of Nelson & Murdock hoping to testify against the Kingpin, an assassin murders him, wounding Murdock as well.  Donning his crimson suit, knowing that Fisk deliberately had the man murdered there because he knows who he is, Daredevil sets out in pursuit.  As this story line progresses, the reader is also informed of Maya Lopez, the deaf prodigy that is the daughter of Fisk's partner.  Maya has the uncanny ability to duplicate any skill she's ever seen, from piano playing to martial arts to ballet.  Maya is also driven to find the man who killed her father and make him pay.  The Kingpin puts Maya on a collision course with Matt Murdock, claiming that the blind attorney's alter-ego Daredevil was the one that killed her father.  Even as Maya follows the assignments that Fisk has designed to pull her into Daredevil's orbit and eventually lead her to attempt to kill him, Matt Murdock falls in love, head over heels.<br />David Mack has been nominated for several awards as writer, artist, and creator.  His creation, KABUKI, has garnered much professional attention as well as support from fans.  In addition to DAREDEVIL: PARTS OF A HOLE, he did the painting for another recent Daredevil graphic novel, DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP.  Joe Quesada is currently editor-in-chief of Marvel Comics, and he has a host of work--writing and editing--behind him.  Quesada has been a driving force behind Daredevil's current popularity.  While over at DC Comics, Quesada helped birth and develop Azrael with Batman powerhouse, Denny O'Neil.<br />DAREDEVIL:  PARTS OF A HOLE without a doubt is beautifully written.  The three principal characters--Daredevil, Maya, and Wilson Fisk--are superbly drawn out in their own voices.  The narrative structure, subjects, and presentation is evocative, and--like Maya's own secret identity--leaves the reader with an echo of the story long after the tale is finished.  David Mack is an exemplary story-teller, and the three stories of the characters are deftly interwoven to create a cohesive whole while at the same time maintaining the integrity of the individuals.  Mack worked from layout sketches, laying his vision of the panel breakdowns out for Quesada and Ross.  In addition to the writing, the art is absolutely striking.  The reader can feel the stillness of a frozen moment, or see the blur of movement as the protagonists battle each other.  The colors, well presented in the comics that this story was compiled from, are beautifully rendered in the graphic novel.  The Kingpin comes across as a dual force of emotions for the reader:  the scariest person who ever lived, and yet one of the most tragic.<br />The only quibble about the graphic novel would be in regards to the last story.  An editorial note said that Quesada and Mack felt the story should be left in the graphic novel collection to preserve the full run of the series (it was originally published as a fill-in issue) in graphic novels.  But the story, even though it takes place in a few minutes during the next to the last issue and telescopes the action and the meaning, simply doesn't belong with DAREDEVIL: PARTS OF A HOLE.  The addition of the story is like an after-dinner mint that really warps the memory of the taste of a good meal.<br />DAREDEVIL: PARTS OF A HOLE is definitely a keeper for the fans of Daredevil, David Mack, and Joe Quesada.  For anyone brought back into the fold by Kevin Smith's work, Mack'sDaredevil and insights into character and story will continue to be a lodestone for anyone looking for a good tale.Daredevil and insights into character and story will continue to be a lodestone for anyone looking for a good tale.	2002-08-12
US	50905801	R3C1551HN0DFUV	0373272359	69248783	Texas Hero  (Code Name:  Danger) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Last Stand for Love	Elena Maria Alazar is stirring up big trouble at the Alamo by advancing the possibility that a known and loved hero might have died a coward's death.  Of course, since the Alamo is in San Antonio, the trouble is huge.  Everything's bigger in Texas.  Ellie is a historian with a mission to identify the mysterious remains of a man who evidently fled the Alamo during the bloody attack by Mexican General Santa Ana.  Clues lead Ellie to believe that the skeletal remains and the trail of bullet casings might belong to William Barrett Travis, hero of the Alamo, might not have died during the battle inside the fort.  As soon as Ellie's research is blown out of proportion by the media, someone threatens to kill her.  However, in addition to being a historian, Ellie is also the niece of the current Mexican president.  Wanting to protect the United States from a potentially embarrassing time, not to mention rescuing the life of the vivacious heroine, the President reaches out to the Omega Agency, the super-secret, go-anywhere, do-whatever-it-takes organization with the sexiest spies in the world.  Only this time, Agent Jack Carstairs has had a past history with Ellie that didn't end well.  He'd been a Marine in love with the niece of a prime political figure, and he'd been pressured to stay away from her.  Instead of fighting to stay with Ellie, thinking that she would be better off without him without ever conferring with her, Jack left and his Marine career melted down around him.  Now he's back because Ellie asked for him, and the sparks of their past romance may prove as lethal as the bullets of the assassin stalking Ellie.<br />Merline Lovelace is the author of dozens of romances.  TEXAS HERO is her sixth in the Code Name: Danger series.  She's written several historical romances as well as stand-alone books in contemporary lines.  Her background as a colonel in the United States Air Forces lends itself dynamically to her blockbuster romantic military thrillers, RIVER RISING, DARK SIDE OF DAWN, DUTY AND DISHONOR, CALL OF DUTY and LINE OF DUTY.<br />TEXAS HERO is an excellent romance.  The historical aspect tied in perfectly with the overall problem that exists between Ellie and Jack.  History is all in the eyes of the people who come afterward to write about the events.  Ellie and Jack understand their own separation from each other nine years ago, but neither is quite able to see the other's side of the story.  As with the story of William Travis, changing the view of the past is extremely hard and met with much resistance.  Merline Lovelace's research flows cleanly into the story, and provides a good overall view of that period of American history as well as the people involved.  Her love scenes are tender and tantalizing at the same time, and will definitely grab the reader's attention.  The writing is fluid and easy, and readers sitting down with the novel shouldn't be surprised to find that he or she will finish the novel in a sitting or two.<br />Fans of Nora Roberts' suspenseful tales will enjoy Merline Lovelace's TEXAS HERO.  If the reader is as yet unacquainted with this author, this novel is a great place to meet.NG, DARK SIDE OF DAWN, DUTY AND DISHONOR, CALL OF DUTY and LINE OF DUTY.<br />TEXAS HERO is an excellent romance.  The historical aspect tied in perfectly with the overall problem that exists between Ellie and Jack.  History is all in the eyes of the people who come afterward to write about the events.  Ellie and Jack understand their own separation from each other nine years ago, but neither is quite able to see the other's side of the story.  As with the story of William Travis, changing the view of the past is extremely hard and met with much resistance.  Merline Lovelace's research flows cleanly into the story, and provides a good overall view of that period of American history as well as the people involved.  Her love scenes are tender and tantalizing at the same time, and will definitely grab the reader's attention.  The writing is fluid and easy, and readers sitting down with the novel shouldn't be surprised to find that he or she will finish the novel in a sitting or two.<br />Fans of Nora Roberts' suspenseful tales will enjoy Merline Lovelace's TEXAS HERO.  If the reader is as yet unacquainted with this author, this novel is a great place to meet.	2002-08-11
US	50905801	RHPOSYU471BJ8	078510948X	411001293	Daredevil Vol. 3: Wake Up	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Through A Dream Darkly	DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP on the surface looks like the story of Leap-Frog, a second-rate costumed villain in a city filled with costumed heroes and villains.  While battling Daredevil, Leap Frog disappeared and no one knows--or much seems to care--what happened to the criminal.  The disappearance is a mystery that no one seems interested in finding the answer to.  The story ultimately unfolds the truth of Leap Frog and how that truth affects his young son, Timmy.  Ben Urich, reporter for the Daily Bugle, reports the story, tracking down the clues left in the comics pages Timmy constantly draws.  Urich is also a good friend of Daredevil, who remains distant about what truly happened to Leap Frog.  Besides the mystery that Timmy's drawings elicits, and the close-mouthed way Daredevil has, Urich also has to contend with J. Jonah Jameson, the toughest newspaper editor ever birthed.  Jameson doesn't want the story, doesn't understand Urich's compelling need to ferret out the facts and report them, and threatened Urich with his job.  Yet, Urich remains steadfast, seeking to understand Timmy's twisted thoughts, striving to break down Daredevil's silence, and to find out what Leap Frog was about and what truly happened to him.<br />Brian Michael Bendis is a two-time Eisner Award winner, one of the most prestigious awards in the comics field.  His strengths are dialogue and maintaining realistic integrity to character and plot even in fantasy worlds that involve costumed superheroes and villains.  He's currently writing POWERS, the monthly title he created that has been acclaimed and nominated for numerous awards, DAREDEVIL, ULTIMATE SPIDER-MAN, ULTIMATE MARVEL TEAM-UP, and ALIAS.  He's also written for the SAM & TWITCH series which spun out of SPAWN.  David Mack is the creator, writer, and artist of KABUKI.  He's won several nominations for Eagle and Harvey Awards, and is a comics writer as well as artist.<br />The graphic novel gathers issues #16-19 of the regular DAREDEVIL series.  Readers should take a good look at Bendis' soul-searching through the character of Daily Bugle reporter Ben Urich.  Urich tells the audience of his desire to be a writer of import, someone who has made a difference with the words he's chosen.  Urich believes that the only way to bring a failing newspaper audience back to that medium is to offer them stories that they can't get anywhere else, reflections of their own worlds.  An astute reader will recognize this as Bendis' own mantra to bring comics readers back into the fold.  One of the amazing things about this story is how conspicuously absent Daredevil is from the pages and the action of the story, yet everything centers around the Man Without Fear.  The sheer storytelling skill Bendis has with this medium, and with the particular story he's chosen to tell is almost overwhelming.  DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP has everything a good comics story should have:  character, suspense, mystery, and some of the deepest emotion human beings are capable of.  In addition, David Mack's painted pages are outstanding.  The painted panels jar and scream in a voice that is entirely their own, and they appear to punch out reality of Timmy and Ben and even Daredevil while carrying on the illusion of a well-developed comic book universe.<br />DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP definitely belongs on the shelves of any serious comics collector or Daredevil fan.  If fans of Bendis' POWERS work or Mack's KABUKI think that costumed superheroes such as Daredevil are passe, this graphic novel is definitely one that could sway that judgment.  With the Daredevil movie coming out in February, DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP is a great graphic novel to get into the whole superhero experience and find out who all the major players are going to be in the movie.es.  Readers should take a good look at Bendis' soul-searching through the character of Daily Bugle reporter Ben Urich.  Urich tells the audience of his desire to be a writer of import, someone who has made a difference with the words he's chosen.  Urich believes that the only way to bring a failing newspaper audience back to that medium is to offer them stories that they can't get anywhere else, reflections of their own worlds.  An astute reader will recognize this as Bendis' own mantra to bring comics readers back into the fold.  One of the amazing things about this story is how conspicuously absent Daredevil is from the pages and the action of the story, yet everything centers around the Man Without Fear.  The sheer storytelling skill Bendis has with this medium, and with the particular story he's chosen to tell is almost overwhelming.  DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP has everything a good comics story should have:  character, suspense, mystery, and some of the deepest emotion human beings are capable of.  In addition, David Mack's painted pages are outstanding.  The painted panels jar and scream in a voice that is entirely their own, and they appear to punch out reality of Timmy and Ben and even Daredevil while carrying on the illusion of a well-developed comic book universe.<br />DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP definitely belongs on the shelves of any serious comics collector or Daredevil fan.  If fans of Bendis' POWERS work or Mack's KABUKI think that costumed superheroes such as Daredevil are passe, this graphic novel is definitely one that could sway that judgment.  With the Daredevil movie coming out in February, DAREDEVIL: WAKE UP is a great graphic novel to get into the whole superhero experience and find out who all the major players are going to be in the movie.	2002-08-11
US	50905801	RTJ1T7WHN6I2M	0743444043	812381526	Double Dealer (CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hot On The Trail	Gil Grissom, the graveyard-shift supervisior of the Las Vegas Criminalistics Bureau, takes up the trail of a professional killer in DOUBLE DEALER.  The hunt starts in the small hours of the morning in a Las Vegas hotel where a man has been shot dead.  Two bullets in the back of the skull less than an inch apart are mute testimony to the fact that the murderer was a professional.  Gil, Warrick, and Sara--accompanied by Detective Jim Brass of the LVPD--work the crime scene.  At the same time, Catherine and Nick roll on an investigation of their own, arriving at a building site where the mummified body has been found.  This second murder was also the victim of two specifically placed shots to the head.  Following up her own leads, Catherine turns up the story of Malachy Fortunato, a Las Vegas dealer working for the Mafia who supposedly disappeared with his stripper girlfriend in 1985 after ripping off the Mafia-owned casino where he worked.  At first, Grissom keeps the two cases separate, but the evidence keeps linking the new murder and the old one.  Tenaciously, the CSIs work their evidence, turning up fact after fact, slowly closing in on the murderer.  Then Special Agent Culpepper of the FBI suddenly joins the hunt, further mystifying Grissom and his specially trained team.  Why would the FBI be interested in either the old case or the new one?  Then, the next murder occurs, and Grissom knows that the cases were definitely linked because the murderer has killed again to protect the secrets from spilling out about the old murder and what really happened to Malachy Fortunato.<br />Max Allan Collins is the award-winning author of the Nate Heller novels, delicious blends of historical fiction and hardboiled private eye action.  The Heller novels include TRUE CRIME, TRUE DETECTIVE, ANGEL IN BLACK, and the just-released CHICAGO CONFIDENTIAL.  He also wrote the original graphic novel, ROAD TO PERDITION, which inspired the Tom Hanks movie of the same name, and wrote the novelization of that movie.  Other novelizations Collins has written include IN THE LINE OF FIRE, AIR FORCE ONE, WINDTALKERS, and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.  For sixteen years, he also scripted the Dick Tracy cartoon strip.  He's also written and directed movies that include MOMMY, MOMMY'S DAY, THE EXPERT, MIKE HAMMER'S MICKEY SPILLANE, and REAL TIME: SIEGE AT LUCAS STREET MARKET.<br />DOUBLE DEALER reads like a well-done episode of the CBS television series.  Collin's dialogue, pacing, and atmosphere are spot-on.  The characters come to life on his pages, and the mystery stems from research as well as the author's own love of the historical elements presented by the Mafia.  Forensic methods in the book are carefully explained and documented, another cornerstone of the television series, but within the scope of the book Collins seems to have a little more time and the reader has time to absorb the information and learn a little more.  Even though there are many twists and plot complications, Collins never loses his readers or loses sight of his many characters, presenting a very enjoyable read for those that want to read straight through or read at a more leisurely pace.<br />Fans of the CSI show will definitely want to pick up this book, as well as the sequels that are coming out.  Anyone not familiar with the television show but who have a keen interest in forensics investigation will enjoy this book, and will have no problem not being familiar with the show.  DOUBLE DEALER stands exceedingly well as a stand-alone read as it does as an enhancement for a remarkable television production.velization of that movie.  Other novelizations Collins has written include IN THE LINE OF FIRE, AIR FORCE ONE, WINDTALKERS, and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.  For sixteen years, he also scripted the Dick Tracy cartoon strip.  He's also written and directed movies that include MOMMY, MOMMY'S DAY, THE EXPERT, MIKE HAMMER'S MICKEY SPILLANE, and REAL TIME: SIEGE AT LUCAS STREET MARKET.<br />DOUBLE DEALER reads like a well-done episode of the CBS television series.  Collin's dialogue, pacing, and atmosphere are spot-on.  The characters come to life on his pages, and the mystery stems from research as well as the author's own love of the historical elements presented by the Mafia.  Forensic methods in the book are carefully explained and documented, another cornerstone of the television series, but within the scope of the book Collins seems to have a little more time and the reader has time to absorb the information and learn a little more.  Even though there are many twists and plot complications, Collins never loses his readers or loses sight of his many characters, presenting a very enjoyable read for those that want to read straight through or read at a more leisurely pace.<br />Fans of the CSI show will definitely want to pick up this book, as well as the sequels that are coming out.  Anyone not familiar with the television show but who have a keen interest in forensics investigation will enjoy this book, and will have no problem not being familiar with the show.  DOUBLE DEALER stands exceedingly well as a stand-alone read as it does as an enhancement for a remarkable television production.	2002-08-08
US	50905801	R17KJBMIV5D0HX	0451205626	873881745	Cold Paradise (A Stone Barrington Novel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Palm Beach Payoff	Stone Barrington, high-money New York City lawyer, ex-cop, and sleuth, takes on a case that seems impossible at first. Thad Shames, rising young billionaire in the computer software world, met a woman once in a bar that he's decided he can't live without. Problem is, he doesn't know who she is or even where she lives. Enter Stone, hired by Shames to track down the elusive mystery lady that has won the geek billionaire's heart with a single glance. Hitting Palm Beach in elegant stride, always knowing which wine to order and which luxury car to drive, Stone turns up the love of Todd Shames' life in short order--while finding a new lady love himself. Of course, in a swiftly-plotted Stuart Woods novel, an experienced reader knows that only the tip of the iceberg has been touched. In no time at all, Stone is plunged into a world of deceit and trickery that reaches back into his own past. And while he's battling the tangled skeins of changed identities, dead men who aren't dead but who have had nose jobs, and fighting off the unsettling advances of Arrington Calder (whom he can't seem to get out of his system and who may be the mother of his child), he finds out his ex-wife Dolce (deranged and a Mafia princess to boot) has stopped taking her Thorazine and escaped the facility where she's been kept and is now on a mission to track Stone down and kill him.<br />Stuart Woods is the best-selling author of eight Stone Barrington novels, including the recently published THE SHORT FOREVER. He's written four novels about Will Lee and three about Deputy Police Chief Holly Barker. In addition, he's written a growing list of stand-alone thrillers, including the award-winning CHIEFS, which was filmed as a television mini-series.<br />Reading a Stuart Woods novel, no matter who the main character is, guarantees a slam-bang driving plot, lots of decadent elegance, and a compendium of brand-names showing how to live life as one of the financially elite. The writing is crisp and tight, but also light enough that the books can be picked up and put down without fear of losing the plot thread. COLD PARADISE perfectly fits that formula. Stone Barrington is a likeable hero and leads a life many can only fantasize about. Besides handling cases that get bizarre and twisted yet ultimately make sense, Stone also handles a bevy of beautiful women and lives the good life, serving the reader a glass of collector's wine and placing the reader in the shotgun seat of the world's sleekest automobiles. COLD PARADISE continues several threads that Woods has in the air regarding his series character, resolves a few of them, and ends at a spot that will make readers rush out to pick up his next novel to see what happens to Stone next. The pacing and plotting move the book along easily, and the copious amounts of dialogue make reading almost a sinful pleasure.<br />The only caveat that must be offered is that while Woods delivers a fast-paced story, he also cuts a few corners. Suspects are conveniently found rapidly, and with Stone's luck at finding things he should go to Vegas.<br />Readers of light mysteries and casual thrillers will enjoy COLD PARADISE. It's a perfect novel to take along to the beach and read purely for pleasure.ut also light enough that the books can be picked up and put down without fear of losing the plot thread. COLD PARADISE perfectly fits that formula. Stone Barrington is a likeable hero and leads a life many can only fantasize about. Besides handling cases that get bizarre and twisted yet ultimately make sense, Stone also handles a bevy of beautiful women and lives the good life, serving the reader a glass of collector's wine and placing the reader in the shotgun seat of the world's sleekest automobiles. COLD PARADISE continues several threads that Woods has in the air regarding his series character, resolves a few of them, and ends at a spot that will make readers rush out to pick up his next novel to see what happens to Stone next. The pacing and plotting move the book along easily, and the copious amounts of dialogue make reading almost a sinful pleasure.<br />The only caveat that must be offered is that while Woods delivers a fast-paced story, he also cuts a few corners. Suspects are conveniently found rapidly, and with Stone's luck at finding things he should go to Vegas.<br />Readers of light mysteries and casual thrillers will enjoy COLD PARADISE. It's a perfect novel to take along to the beach and read purely for pleasure.	2002-08-06
US	50905801	R44JKCWYGEUZE	039923621X	286729378	Point Blank (Alex Rider)	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Assignment: Certain Death	Alex Rider, the youngest spy ever recruited and forced into service by MI6--Great Britain's premiere espionage agency, returns in POINT BLANK with a vengeance.  Only a few days have passed since Alex's last adventure when he helped catch the man responsible for murdering his uncle, Ian Rider, who had also been a spy.  His excuses, a doctor's note no one quite believes, have barely been made before he's spirited off by Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones, the head of Special Operations.  Two deaths of rich and powerful men, one of them a personal friend of Blunt's, have triggered an investigation into the matter of those deaths.  One man was killed violently while the other, a VERY careful man, apparently died by an unfortunate accident.  The common denominator:  both men had problem children, sons that were sent to a new school in France called Point Blanc.  Blunt assigns Alex to infiltrate the school on a Search and Report mission.  Once there, Alex discovers that the boys attending the school are all eerie, all acting like little puppets who answer every command of the creepy Dr. Hugo Grief and Mrs. Stellenbosch.  In no time at all, Alex Rider fourteen year old spy extraordinaire is once more facing a grim and certain death if he doesn't use every ounce of cunning and intelligence he possesses.<br />Anthony Horowitz is a novelist and TV writer.  In addition to the two Alex Rider novels he's written (STORMBREAKER and POINT BLANK), he's also penned THE DEVIL AND HIS BOY, a historical thriller, THE DEVIL'S DOOR-BELL, NIGHT OF THE SCORPION, THE SILVER CITADEL, and short story collections, DEATH WALKS TONIGHT and MYTHS AND LEGENDS.  He's written television scripts for POIROT and MIDSUMMER MURDERS, and recently created two television series for the BBC.<br />The pacing in POINT BLANK rivals the breakneck speed shown in STORMBREAKER.  The story yanks the reader along, as if daring him or her to keep up.  Although the book is written about a fourteen year old spy, the prose is keen and precise, rivaling any of that in today's thrillers.  The book can be enjoyed by young readers as well as adults, and for the very same reasons.  The action sequences are some of the best, tight and intricately planned.  Horowitz stays just this side of SF and blends the effect neatly into the spy story.  His villains are definitely of James Bond caliber, unique and attention-getting while at the same time vile and loathsome.  Alex's tools of the spy trade, delivered by his very own Q-type spy inventor, are neat and plausible.  Getting to see SAS soldier Wolf (from the first novel, STORMBREAKER) again was great.  It seems Horowitz is going to create a world for his young spy and keep it interactive, weaving threads in one book that will come to fruition in successive novels.<br />There could be, perhaps, a little more dialogue in the book.  Reading narration can be fun, but a reader's ears stay pricked for the conversations a character has.  Of course, Alex isn't exactly overly verbose, but other characters could talk to him as well.  And there needs to be a little more about Jack Starbright, Alex's housekeeper.  So far, all the reader knows is that she is from America.  What brought her to Great Britain and why does she continue to stay?  Maybe the author has even more secrets to unveil.<br />POINT BLANK is a wonderful novel of action and suspense.  Any reader waiting anxiously for the release of Vin Diesel's new movie, XXX, or the new James Bond film will definitely find a story in this book to meet the driving excitement in those properties.and precise, rivaling any of that in today's thrillers.  The book can be enjoyed by young readers as well as adults, and for the very same reasons.  The action sequences are some of the best, tight and intricately planned.  Horowitz stays just this side of SF and blends the effect neatly into the spy story.  His villains are definitely of James Bond caliber, unique and attention-getting while at the same time vile and loathsome.  Alex's tools of the spy trade, delivered by his very own Q-type spy inventor, are neat and plausible.  Getting to see SAS soldier Wolf (from the first novel, STORMBREAKER) again was great.  It seems Horowitz is going to create a world for his young spy and keep it interactive, weaving threads in one book that will come to fruition in successive novels.<br />There could be, perhaps, a little more dialogue in the book.  Reading narration can be fun, but a reader's ears stay pricked for the conversations a character has.  Of course, Alex isn't exactly overly verbose, but other characters could talk to him as well.  And there needs to be a little more about Jack Starbright, Alex's housekeeper.  So far, all the reader knows is that she is from America.  What brought her to Great Britain and why does she continue to stay?  Maybe the author has even more secrets to unveil.<br />POINT BLANK is a wonderful novel of action and suspense.  Any reader waiting anxiously for the release of Vin Diesel's new movie, XXX, or the new James Bond film will definitely find a story in this book to meet the driving excitement in those properties.	2002-07-28
US	50905801	R7S1H22OG2YUB	0698119347	340584662	Stormbreaker (An Alex Rider Adventure)	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	Shaken AND Stirred	When fourteen year-old Alex Rider hears of his uncle's tragic death in an auto accident, he becomes immediately suspicious.  Ian Rider had been a banker, a very careful man.  He was also Alex's only living relative.  Following up on his uncle's car, Alex discovers that the car is at a junkyard and is sporting dozens of bullet holes and blood on the seats that proves his uncle was murdered.  So who killed Ian Rider and covered the act up?  And why?  Alex's quest for the truth introduces him to Alan Blunt, a spymaster for Great Britain's MI6 espionage agency.  Caught while seeking further information, Alex is blackmailed by Blunt into becoming the youngest spy to ever work for MI6.  Herod Sayles, a multi-millionaire, is giving away thousands of his newest computer, Stormbreaker, to the children of London's schools.  Ian Rider was investigating the man and those machines when he was killed.  If Alex doesn't agree to undertake the mission, Blunt promises that he will be sent off to an orphan's home, and that his housekeeper, Jack Starbright, will be deported back to America.  Before he can adjust to getting blackmailed, Alex is sent on a three-week crash course training with SAS commandos.  Yanked out of training, Alex is thrown headlong into the grinning jaws of death where he will meet a spectacular array of villains, including Mr. Grin who has had his face disfigured during a throwing knife accident in a circus, and a huge jellyfish.<br />Anthony Horowitz is a successful writer of novels and television shows.  His second Alex Rider novel, POINT BLANK, is out this year.  In addition, he's written historical thrillers, THE SINISTER SECRET OF FREDERICK K. BOWER and THE DEVIL AND HIS BOY.  He's also written a series of books involving the FIVE including THE DEVIL'S DOOR-KNOB, NIGHT OF THE SCORPION, and THE SILVER CITADEL.  His work for television lists scripts for POIROT and MIDSOMER NIGHTS, and he has created his own television show, MURDER IN MIND.<br />STORMBREAKER is an exciting, easy to read, and hard to put down novel.  The breakneck pace of the story draws the reader on, and the simple use of the language to convey the story make it that much easier to read just one more page, and another, and another.  However, the simple writing evokes full images, cast and settings.  And there are twists and turns aplenty in the story.  Alex is very likeable, and he's very much like James Bond must have been at that age.  Not only is he quick and mildly sardonic, but he gets equipped with a cutting-edge tech GameBoy equipped with spygear, zit cream that eats through metal, and a yo-yo that doubles as a winch, serving him as well as Spider-Man's weblines.<br />Even though the pace is driving and the descriptions are wonderful, the book could have used a little more dialogue.  The dialogue that the author uses is pretty much spot-on, but more of it was needed.<br />STORMBREAKER is an excellent read for anyone interested in action adventure novels and spy stories.an exciting, easy to read, and hard to put down novel.  The breakneck pace of the story draws the reader on, and the simple use of the language to convey the story make it that much easier to read just one more page, and another, and another.  However, the simple writing evokes full images, cast and settings.  And there are twists and turns aplenty in the story.  Alex is very likeable, and he's very much like James Bond must have been at that age.  Not only is he quick and mildly sardonic, but he gets equipped with a cutting-edge tech GameBoy equipped with spygear, zit cream that eats through metal, and a yo-yo that doubles as a winch, serving him as well as Spider-Man's weblines.<br />Even though the pace is driving and the descriptions are wonderful, the book could have used a little more dialogue.  The dialogue that the author uses is pretty much spot-on, but more of it was needed.<br />STORMBREAKER is an excellent read for anyone interested in action adventure novels and spy stories.	2002-07-25
US	50905801	RDH5XXEOF8PFZ	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Easy Rawlins Returns!	Easy Rawlins is a hardscrabble, part-time private eye (although he would never call it that) in 1964 Los Angeles.  Easy lives the black experience, from the gutter to black men trying to make something of themselves.  In this novel, the sixth book of the series, Easy still has his custodial management job at Soujourner Truth public school but part of him will never leave the streets and the danger and he knows it.  He has a better life than he could ever have believed possible with his son and daughter, Jesus and Feather, and his woman, Bonnie, who is still new to him.  But when he gets the call from an old friend to search for a missing son that may be tied up in the Urban Revolutionary Party, a black group that may be interested in living up to its name, Easy slides gracefully and willingly back into the night's shadows and strides through the dangerous underbelly of 1960s Los Angeles.  In no time at all, Easy has run afoul of powerful men.  Black and white, cop and criminal, Easy's adversaries are legion and deadly.  In no time at all, two men are dead.  Both men are tied to the young man that Easy is looking for:  Brawly Brown.  While searching for Brown, Easy comes face-to-face with several issues of the changing world and the problems that are only now coming to a head in his own life.  While his friend John is potentially losing his step-son to the violence starting to break out in the streets, Easy is struggling to keep his own son in school or find a way to make a success of him.  Still, the danger and the struggle are stimulus that the streetwise part of Easy Rawlins can never walk away from.<br />Walter Mosley has written five previous Easy Rawlins mysteries, including, DEVIL IN A BLUE DRESS which was made into a movie starring Denzel Washington, A RED DEATH, WHITE BUTTERFLY, BROWN BETTY, LITTLE YELLOW DOG, and a prequel of sorts called GONE FISHIN'.  He's spawned another series about an ex-con named Socrates Fortlow that features short stories gathered into two volumes so far, ALWAYS OUTNUMBERED, ALWAYS OUTGUNNED and WALKIN' THE DOG.  Lawrence Fishburn brought Socrates Fortlow to life in an HBO special.  His writing includes SF works such as FUTURELAND and BLUE LIGHT.  RL'S DREAM is the mainstream story of an aging blues man.  FEARLESS JONES created another 1960s black private eye.  And he's contributed two nonfiction volumes discussing the black experience:  WORKIN' ON THE CHAIN GANG and BLACK GENIUS.<br />Mosley's writing is easy to read, and his relationship with his readers as he introduces complicated and deep characters is awesome.  A reader that picks up one of the Rawlins novels will find and get to know a kindred spirit in no time flat.  Although Mosley guides the reader through the alleys and dives in the seamy streets of Los Angeles, he makes certain to reveal the successes and possibilities of other lives that aren't steeped in evil and desperation.  The mystery in BAD BOY BRAWLY BROWN comes as much from the social changes going on at the time as it does from the dark side of men that has been around since civilization evolved.  Although the story is deep and the characters are rich, Mosley tells the tale at a leisurely pace that is reader friendly even to people that are consuming the book while on the go.  Read a little or read a lot, Mosley keeps the pages turning and makes certain his readers stay along for the ride.  One of the particular delights of this novel was the confrontation between Easy and police officers from the LAPD, and his own recognition of what he does as an unofficial private eye.<br />Although the question of whether Raymond Alexander was actually dead was never answered in this novel, long-time readers will be mostly satisfied with the way Mosley has delayed the revelation.  However, the ending came together almost too quickly.  A little more tension and spinning out the events would have been welcomed.  And the question of Jackson Blue, who stole money from Jesus, Easy's adopted son, wasn't quite answered although the tools to settle the issue were in place.<br />BAD BOY BRAWLY BROWN, like any of the Easy Rawlins mysteries, is highly recommended to readers of James Lee Burke, Robert Crais, and Robert B. Parker.  Mosley adds a rich and textured surface to the world of his quasi-private investigator that can't be gotten anywhere else.d son, wasn't quite answered although the tools to settle the issue were in place.<br />BAD BOY BRAWLY BROWN, like any of the Easy Rawlins mysteries, is highly recommended to readers of James Lee Burke, Robert Crais, and Robert B. Parker.  Mosley adds a rich and textured surface to the world of his quasi-private investigator that can't be gotten anywhere else.	2002-07-14
US	50905801	R2CK28CWLVFPTU	0743445988	340129341	1: The Edge of the Sword: Errand of Vengeance Book One (Star Trek: the Original Series - Errand of Vengeance)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Heart of the Assassin	Captain James T. Kirk has been marked for death by the Klingon Empire.  Kell, a throwaway warrior by Klingon standards, has undergone radical surgery to give him the appearance of Jon Anderson, a new human recruit for the Starfleet Security contingent.  As a Klingon, Kell was too small for service as a warrior, but he's just right as a spy.  As Anderson, Kell is assigned to ENTERPRISE, and his target is James T. Kirk.  During the course of his assignment, Kell is constantly forced to reassess his estimation of the humans, \\"Earthers\\" as he calls them.  The Klingon sees the human weaknesses that prevent them from being vicious warriors in their own right, but he also sees their strengths and comes to understand the human sensibility of responsibility and honor.  While on assignment to defend an Earther settlement near the Klingon-Federation border, Kell finds himself and his beliefs under a constant barrage of fire.  A mercenary group of Orions attacks the human settlement of Sector 1324 in what may be an effort to accurately gauge Starfleet capabilities.  While Kell is involved on the ground in a running battle, Kirk and the crew of ENTERPRISE has to play hide-and-seek with a warship out in space and through a deadly asteroid field.  Adding to the tension, the human settlement is a branch of the AFL, the Anti-Federation League, a group dramatically opposed to the beliefs and actions of the Federation.  And most surprising of all, the Orions might have been hired by the Klingons, a move that is totally without the benefit of honor.  Kell finds himself torn between the Starfleet personnel who treat him with honor, and evidence of the Klingons' lack of the same.  He's trapped among the enemy and assigned to destroy Kirk.<br />ERRAND OF VENGEANCE is Kevin Ryan's first Star Trek trilogy.  He co-authored a Star Trek TNG novel, REQUIEM, with Michael Jan Friedman, and served as an editor on the Star Trek series for years.<br />The book offers a fast-paced read with well-choreographed action.  The battle between ENTERPRISE and the Orion ship is well-detailed and keeps the reader on the edge of his or her seat.  Before the battle after the security team's arrival at the jeopardized settlement, Ryan establishes a good sense of the ship and the day-to-day life, using Kell's Klingon view of things to make them sharper.  Although playing a lesser role in the story being presented here, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy are all dead on.  The Original Series crew shows their particular strengths and weaknesses.  However, Kell's story really commands center stage--as it should.  Since this is the first book of a trilogy, readers are going to anxiously be awaiting the next two novels.  Besides Kell's growing inner conflicts about the situation and responsibility he's undertaken, the background stories include those of Karel, Kell's older brother who believes Kell fell after a cowardly attack made by the Earthers and whose own rise on his Klingon vessel has been marked in spilled blood, and Lieutenant West, a recent graduate of Starfleet Academy with an interest in xenobiology and xenosociology that is obviously going to be a major turning point of the trilogy.<br />Only a couple things were disappointing about the book.  Ensign West never seems to have a first name, nor a real background beyond being the son of a famous Starfleet officer that he doesn't get along with.  Also, it would have been interesting to deepen his character with contacts and showing him using his own resources to get the information he needed without depending overly much on Admiral Justman (who also lacks a first name).  If West is going to be a mover and a shaker in the overall plot, he should act accordingly.  His thinking about the Klingons, though, is spot on.<br />Fans and committed readers of the various Star Trek series (TV and novels) already know the stories of the major constituents of The Original Series.  Pocket Books and Editor Ordover have re-opened Star Trek TOS in anexciting new way by telling the stories of the men and women that served with and around the usual suspects in a TOS novel.  The familiar faces are still there, but the heroes written about in these novels can lose or fail or fall or succeed dramatically.  The three-book packaging is also welcome, without the constant numbering that so many novels have gone on before.  The two-month publishing schedule to get a trilogy out is also welcome, allowing a reader to pick up a fairly lengthy adventure in a relatively short amount of time.  Recommended for Star Trek readers and fans of military SF.exciting new way by telling the stories of the men and women that served with and around the usual suspects in a TOS novel.  The familiar faces are still there, but the heroes written about in these novels can lose or fail or fall or succeed dramatically.  The three-book packaging is also welcome, without the constant numbering that so many novels have gone on before.  The two-month publishing schedule to get a trilogy out is also welcome, allowing a reader to pick up a fairly lengthy adventure in a relatively short amount of time.  Recommended for Star Trek readers and fans of military SF.	2002-07-07
US	50905801	RVPGM8U6CDYWP	0425180433	817508098	Ten Thousand Islands (A Doc Ford Novel)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Tropical Murder	Doc Ford is a Marine biologist living in Dinkin's Bay Marina on Sanibel Island down in the Florida wilderness.  Before he'd stepped into that life, however, Ford had lived another life as a government agent--and maybe, according to his good friend Tomlinson, who experiments with recreational drugs and New Age philosophies, he'd had a life before that.  Fifteen years ago, Dorothy Copeland was a child prodigy, a finder of lost things with an uncanny knack for discovering treasures from the Calusa Indians that had once lived in the Ten Thousand Islands.  Several of the findings the young girl made ended up in museums, and they attracted the unwanted attentions of treasure hunters looking for gold.  Then, mysteriously, Dorothy was found dead, hanging in a tree branch.  No one knew if she was murdered or she accidentally took her own life while trying to get away from the voices she'd always heard in her head.  A mutual friend of the girl's mother asks Doc to look into the situation after a break-in at the mother's house that is tied to the dead girl.  Ford's investigation into the matter involves deadly lies, power, corruption, and the darkest evil in men's hearts amid the spectacular backdrop of the Florida Keys.<br />Randy Wayne White is the author of several Doc Ford novels, including TWELVE-MILE LIMIT, SHARK RIVER, SANIBEL FLATS, and NORTH OF HAVANA.  He's also authored books on travel and fishing in Florida, BATFISHING IN THE RAIN FOREST, THE SHARKS OF NICARAGUA, and LAST FLIGHT OUT.  He's also regularly contributed articles to OUTSIDE magazine and MEN'S HEALTH magazine.<br />Doc Ford is a deep and moving character.  White's first-person narrative draws the reader in and makes him or her feel as though he or she is peering over Ford's shoulder during his adventures.  Besides the driving narrative, the descriptions of the places in the book, the people met there, and the tidbits of information on the flora and fauna make for an enjoyable and enlightening read.  White's description of the horrific cenote kept by the book's villains will not soon leave the mind's eye or fail to send a chill up the spine.  This is a hero with a history, but not all of that history is laid out for casual inspection.  Although Doc has been around his regular cadre of friends, the reader still makes discovers about Doc's past as well as his connection to present-day friends.  White paints Doc on the page like a real person, complete with flaws and weaknesses.<br />The book starts off a little slow, necessitating an out of place prologue showing the coming threat and violence coming.  Still, White is so readable that the pages fly by, and those action junkies needing a quick fix of violence will be amply rewarded by sticking with the book.  For those that love deep characterization and a peek at the real world a hero lives and works in, as well as the tangled mess they make of their emotional lives, the opening chapters are an excellent way to get to know Doc.<br />Readers of any of the Florida crime writers will enjoy White's skill and verve, and his tough-guy characterization, philosophy, and internal questioning are on a par with Robert B. Parker's Spenser, James Lee Burke's Dave Robicheaux, and Robert Crais' Elvis Cole novels.  As with those three writers, White makes his character's environment as big and expansive as his hero.e's description of the horrific cenote kept by the book's villains will not soon leave the mind's eye or fail to send a chill up the spine.  This is a hero with a history, but not all of that history is laid out for casual inspection.  Although Doc has been around his regular cadre of friends, the reader still makes discovers about Doc's past as well as his connection to present-day friends.  White paints Doc on the page like a real person, complete with flaws and weaknesses.<br />The book starts off a little slow, necessitating an out of place prologue showing the coming threat and violence coming.  Still, White is so readable that the pages fly by, and those action junkies needing a quick fix of violence will be amply rewarded by sticking with the book.  For those that love deep characterization and a peek at the real world a hero lives and works in, as well as the tangled mess they make of their emotional lives, the opening chapters are an excellent way to get to know Doc.<br />Readers of any of the Florida crime writers will enjoy White's skill and verve, and his tough-guy characterization, philosophy, and internal questioning are on a par with Robert B. Parker's Spenser, James Lee Burke's Dave Robicheaux, and Robert Crais' Elvis Cole novels.  As with those three writers, White makes his character's environment as big and expansive as his hero.	2002-07-05
US	50905801	RMPXERJBI0XN8	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Louisiana Lawman	As deptuty sheriff of New Iberia, Louisiana, Dave Robicheaux lives in the dark heart of the American swamplands.  After years of being a drunk, a Vietnam vet with horrible memories of the war, and time spent as a homicide detective in New Orleans, which was once the murder capital of the United States, Robicheaux is innured to the inhumanity people can show toward each other.  However, when two young women in the community are murdered and Robicheaux is victimized by a man that is truly the nastiest villain to come along in mystery fiction in years, the Louisiana lawman takes up the hunt with a grim vengeance burning in his heart.  The distance that Robicheaux keeps himself at during most investigations is stolen from him by Legion Guidry, who seems to have climbed up from the deepest pits of Hell.  One of the young women is innocent, a child of god-fearing parents who have never done anything wrong in their lives.  The other young woman is a prostitute whose father is a Mafia hitman.  While Robicheaux is motivated by guilt for not seeing Tee Bobby Hulin as the culprit in the first girl's murder and a need to see justice done for her parents, Joe Zeroski the Mafia hitman starts out on a campaign of retributions and scorched earth that promises violence that will draw in many more people.  Legion Guidry hovers in the shadows around both murders, and Robicheaux becomes the greatest threat to the man.<br />James Lee Burke is a master of the Southern Gothic crime novel.  His descriptions of places, people and events roll from the tongue.  His books are actually a pleasure to read aloud, if one is so inclined; and the audiobooks read by Will Payton are absolutely the best because Payton has a natural honeyed pecan Southern drawl.  Burke maintains two series characters at present.  Dave Robicheaux sheriffs New Iberia (PURPLE CANE ROAD, DIXIE CITY JAM, BLACK CHERRY BLUES), and Billy Bob Holland divides his lawyerly duties between Texas and Montana (BITTERROOT, HEARTWOOD, CIMARRON ROSE).  Burke has also written several stand-alone novels (LAY DOWN MY SWORD AND SHIELD, HALF OF PARADISE, THE LOST GET-BACK BOOGIE, THE CONVICT, TO THE BRIGHT AND SHINING SEA, and TWO FOR TEXAS).  His second Robicheaux books, HEAVEN'S PRISONERS, was made into a movie of the same name that starred Alec Baldwin.<br />Every James Lee Burke novel is an exercise in emotion and description that sandwiches layers of internal moral investigation.  Robicheaux exists as a man with a keen world view and a need to help clean up whatever injustice he can.  In this novel, Robicheaux is shown as being capable of being the grandest hero around, while had the same time staving off impulses to be as bad in ways as the villains he pursues.  The pacing of the novel is impeccable, keeping the reader hooked while developing other characters and suspects, and proving once more that no crime is created wholly in a vacuum.  The dialogue bristles, funny and sad and hurtful all at the same time.  Clete Purcell's own substory runs as a sharp counterpoint to everything that Robicheaux encounters and already has.  The glimpses Burke provides into Louisiana of forty and fifty years ago is awesome, and provides the anchor for so many of the things that still go on in that part of the world.  Louisiana has deep roots as far as the history of the United States goes, and not all of those roots are clean and untarnished.  Still, they are part of what made those lives, that state, and this country what it is.  Making mistakes, realizing those were mistakes, and building toward a better tomorrow remains a constant message in all of Burke's books.  The friendships Burke distills into his characters on the pages are real, but so is the darkest evil he unveils, and that is probably the most unsettling aspect of his work.  Sitting down with a new Burke novel is a lot like sitting down with an old friend with a new but not too dissimilar story to tell.  Burke has definitely got another winner in JOLIE BLON'S BOUNCE.<br />Only one aspect of the story got perhaps a shorter shrift than some readers may have wished for.  Bootsie, Robicheaux's wife, and Alafair, his adopted daughter, have conversations and involvement with Robicheaux that help him tip the scales in his fight against the alcoholism that wars within him.  The scenes were shorter than some readers will want, because both Robicheaux and Burke are deep family men with definite views.  Many will wish for more of the family interaction.<br />JOLIE BLON'S BOUNCE is a crackling good crime novel.  Readers of Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Elmore Leonard will find the same deeply resonant male figure/protector here that the first two writers offer, plus a tour of the fractured and sometimes dark psyche of men who take on the violent burdens of others.  In addition to the suspense and pacing, the view of the characters and their places in their world, Burke also offers up some of the best reading anywhere.  The sentences flow and the descriptions sing.IE BLON'S BOUNCE.<br />Only one aspect of the story got perhaps a shorter shrift than some readers may have wished for.  Bootsie, Robicheaux's wife, and Alafair, his adopted daughter, have conversations and involvement with Robicheaux that help him tip the scales in his fight against the alcoholism that wars within him.  The scenes were shorter than some readers will want, because both Robicheaux and Burke are deep family men with definite views.  Many will wish for more of the family interaction.<br />JOLIE BLON'S BOUNCE is a crackling good crime novel.  Readers of Robert B. Parker, Robert Crais, Elmore Leonard will find the same deeply resonant male figure/protector here that the first two writers offer, plus a tour of the fractured and sometimes dark psyche of men who take on the violent burdens of others.  In addition to the suspense and pacing, the view of the characters and their places in their world, Burke also offers up some of the best reading anywhere.  The sentences flow and the descriptions sing.	2002-06-17
US	50905801	R2XZRKJ2H6A3MV	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Walking the Walk	Spenser, Boston's toughest and most philosophical private eye, is hired to investigate the death of Nathan Smith, a rich upper class bank owner.  The prime suspect is Mary Smith, the dead man's widow who is twenty years younger and appears to have the I.Q. of a turnip.  Mary is so dumb acting that everyone, including the District Attorney's office, isn't buying it.  Hired by Rita Fiore, Spenser puts an edge on his sleuthing skills and dares to ask questions of the wealthy and the elite, looking for the right rock to turn over that will point to the real murderer.  The trail is twisted and there are a number of players with their own agendas.  In no time at all, Spenser is on his home turf, taking the good fight to trained thugs and would-be assassins.<br />Robert B. Parker has set the bar with his poetic private eye, and Spenser is the standard that a whole generation of authors of tough guy private investigator fiction have been measured against.  The author has written 29 books about Spenser, 3 about female private eye Sunny Randall, 3 about small town police chief Jesse Stone, a recent Western novel featuring Wyatt Earp, 2 about Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe, and a handful of stand-alone tales.  The Spenser books were also the source material for ABC's SPENSER: FOR HIRE television series starring Robert Urich, and a string of A & E movies that now feature Joe Mantegna.<br />As in any Robert B. Parker work, the prose is sparse and dead-on, the dialogue crisp and clean, and the hero featured up front and center.  WIDOW'S WALK has a lot to offer to old fans in the way of action and one-liners.  The cynical wit and the camaraderie with Hawk and Belson, the relationship with Susan Silverman, are all in place in this addition to the Spenser franchise.<br />The overall plot sometimes comes across as thin and hard to get at.  Banking terms and financial situations remain somewhat hazy, though the reader never gets the impression that Parker is playing fast and loose with them.  Susan's loss of a patient through suicide comes across as a near-miss.  The loss and Susan are important, but so far distant from what Spenser is working and dealing with that the death should have been excised from the book or given more weight, whether in terms of the Smith case or touching more directly on the Spenser/Susan relationship.  The final villain, even though the reader is prepared for him, remained off stage so much that he seemed like a shadow and never came to life in any way.<br />A Spenser novel isn't designed or meant to be a heavy cerebral experience.  Spenser is a hands-on, shoot-'em-up type of guy, the kind of man that the male and female audience who are fans of action and adventure can stand up and cheer for.  Readers experienced with Spenser and Parker will want to add this book to their collection, and readers that want to embrace a new author and a new tough guy hero can pick this book up and be able to make a critical judgment on whether to pick up the rest of this exciting series.  Robert B. Parker and Spenser always deliver exactly what they set out to do:  a look into crime and a man's vision of himself and the cause-and-effect relationship he has with his world.  The writing is simply the best, tight and efficient and involving.with them.  Susan's loss of a patient through suicide comes across as a near-miss.  The loss and Susan are important, but so far distant from what Spenser is working and dealing with that the death should have been excised from the book or given more weight, whether in terms of the Smith case or touching more directly on the Spenser/Susan relationship.  The final villain, even though the reader is prepared for him, remained off stage so much that he seemed like a shadow and never came to life in any way.<br />A Spenser novel isn't designed or meant to be a heavy cerebral experience.  Spenser is a hands-on, shoot-'em-up type of guy, the kind of man that the male and female audience who are fans of action and adventure can stand up and cheer for.  Readers experienced with Spenser and Parker will want to add this book to their collection, and readers that want to embrace a new author and a new tough guy hero can pick this book up and be able to make a critical judgment on whether to pick up the rest of this exciting series.  Robert B. Parker and Spenser always deliver exactly what they set out to do:  a look into crime and a man's vision of himself and the cause-and-effect relationship he has with his world.  The writing is simply the best, tight and efficient and involving.	2002-05-22
US	50905801	R2TK4QE3CM9PV5	0743427947	363088820	2: Progenitor (Star Trek: Stargazer)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Stargazer:  Rough Waters Ahead	As the second entry to Michael Jan Friedman's new Star Trek Stargazer series, PROGENITOR gets into the mix of character dynamics early and with a passion.  Surly and cantankerous Chief Engineer Phigus Simenon is even worse than ever, and Admiral McAreet is plotting to set a spy aboard STARGAZER after Second Officer Elizabeth Wu accepts a First Officer position with her old captain.  Wu was one of the new crewmen McAreet ordered aboard in the last book for Picard's first mission as captain.  The author shakes out his net with the patience and craft of a born storyteller.  As it turns out, Simenon is being called back to his planet for a very important ritual regarding the continuation of his family.  Wu takes Ensign Jiterica (a low-mass energy being) and new ship's pilot Cole Paris (any ties to Tom Paris to further shore up the Star Trek families?) under her wing to help them through personal issues.  Furthermore, Ensign Andreas Nikolas is back as the reader's personal barometer for what the rest of the ship is doing, and he's taken an interest in Idun Asmund, one of the human sisters raised by Klingons.  In the middle of this juggling act of plot threads, the reader also gets a closer look at Dikembe Ulelo, who definitely has nefarious ideas in mind for the ship.<br />Michael Jan Friedman is an old salt when it comes to telling tales of the Starfleet crews.  He's done novels in Star Trek The Original Series, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, and Star Trek: Voyager, as well as many of the mini-series and special events within that license.  He's also written novels about Marvel Comics' X-MEN, including the cross-over between the X-Men and Star Trek: The Next Generation.  Other books include volumes in the Wishbone series, based on the kids' television program, and upcoming books about the Cartoon Network smash-hit, JUSTICE LEAGUE.<br />Friedman displays a real flair for handing a young Jean-Luc Picard and the new ship and crew.  He keeps the plot threads weaving, finishing off some stories just as he is starting others.  Despite getting a satisfying read with each novel, he always leaves the reader wondering what else is going on with the things he hints at.  At the end of both novels so far, the reader is left wanting more.  Even though the readers know that Picard goes on to have a very long and distinguished career in Starfleet, there is a host of other characters to worry over.  The books read very much like episodes of the television series, and serve to keep the reader nailed to his or her seat during the tour of duty.  The interplay between the characters, both with each other and their thoughts bouncing off the readers, is excellent.<br />One of the most jarring parts of this book was the lack of blank spaces and/or asterisks to warn the reader of scene changes.  This was no fault of the author, and is only mildly unsettling because this lack happens at the end of the book.  Another small niggle is Carter Grayhorse's uncanny ability to do a feat at the end of the novel that kind of comes out of nowhere.  Although Grayhorse is the ship's Chief Medical Officer and is in love with Gerda Asmund, the other human sister raised by Klingons, he doesn't quite come across as a fully realized character yet.  He somehow lacks the depth of character exhibited by the other ship's crew.  However, after seeing how Friedman is handling the books, that's sure to be resolved in short order--and very probably with a twist that will catch readers off-guard and make them think, \\"Cool!\\"<br />Anyone that is a fan of Star Trek in any of its varied forms will enjoy this book.  The Stargazer books carry the values set forth in the original series, and the wonderment of ST:TNG.  Friedman's characterization of Picard in his youth is spot-on, and the rest of the crew makes for interesting reading.  Get on board while the series is just starting and enjoy waiting for each new installment instead of doing catch-up reading later!er!	2002-05-03
US	50905801	R1TXSQKQJTJMT1	0743427920	110597499	1: Gauntlet (Star Trek: Stargazer)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	STARGAZER, Engage!	Michael Jan Friedman's new Star Trek Stargazer series promises a lot of potential with this first book.  Jean-Luc Picard has only recently received a battlefield promotion to captain.  Admiral McAteer, newly assigned to the Star Fleet sector, is out to make a name for himself, and he's also dead-set against accepting Picard as a captain.  As an effort to scuttle the young captain's career, McAteer assigns Picard to apprehend the elusive White Wolf, a pirate that seems to be more ghost that flesh and blood.  In a further effort to sabotoge Picard's command, McAteer places new crewmembers aboard Stargazer:  people that are young and untried, people that have obvious problems that will interfere with the command and performance of the starship and the mission.<br />A Star Trek author of considerable talent, skill, and experience, Friedman's newest series came from two earlier entries in the adventures of the young Jean-Luc Picard:  Star Trek Nex Generation: VALIANT and Double Helix:  THE FIRST VIRTUE.  The author has also contributed to Star Trek Starfleet Year One, Star Trek the Original Series, Star Trek The Next Generation, Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Star Trek Voyager, as well as several mini-series within the franchise.  He also wrote the only Star Trek Next Generation/X-Men crossover.  Other novels spawned from comic book properties include a Fantastic Four adventure: THE REDEMPTION OF THE SILVER SURFER, Superman novels, and X-Men novels.  There are at least two Justice League novels for young readers coming up, based on the hit cartoon series.  He's also a contributor to the Wishbone adventures, displaying a versatility and wide interest.<br />In GAUNTLET, Friedman really hits his stride.  The book reads like a television episode, fast-paced with quick scenes that make the pages seem to turn themselves.  Besides the overall problem of dealing with what is admittedly the most wily and elusive pirate plaguing Starfleet at the time, Friedman presents a host of character-based problems.  The characters deal with these problems both internally and externally, in true Star Trek tradition.  The author is clearly at home dealing with character stretches as he is at detailing battle scenes.  This was a exemplary exhibition of an introduction to a great new series, with lots of promise to come.<br />Although the identity of the White Wolf had to be kept secret, there should have been a little more information on him.  Otherwise, the White Wolf and his coterie should have been kept off the stage completely.  The ultimate secret of why the White Wolf was in place there seemed to come out of left fied.  Also, the resolution of some of the characters, although coming in Book Two from the looks of things, made the read feel like some things were left undone.  Still, this is going to be an epic story, so they will probably still get tied up.  However, at least a cursory confrontation between Picard and McAteer would have been nice to see.<br />This book is definitely for the Star Trek fans.  Readers will get a brand new ship, a new crew, and a younger version of one of the best Starfleet captains ever to helm a ship.  If new readers have hesitated about trying to read one of the other series because so many volumes have been published about the crews of those ships, GAUNTLET is an excellent place to start, a new team in the licensed franchise to root for.cter-based problems.  The characters deal with these problems both internally and externally, in true Star Trek tradition.  The author is clearly at home dealing with character stretches as he is at detailing battle scenes.  This was a exemplary exhibition of an introduction to a great new series, with lots of promise to come.<br />Although the identity of the White Wolf had to be kept secret, there should have been a little more information on him.  Otherwise, the White Wolf and his coterie should have been kept off the stage completely.  The ultimate secret of why the White Wolf was in place there seemed to come out of left fied.  Also, the resolution of some of the characters, although coming in Book Two from the looks of things, made the read feel like some things were left undone.  Still, this is going to be an epic story, so they will probably still get tied up.  However, at least a cursory confrontation between Picard and McAteer would have been nice to see.<br />This book is definitely for the Star Trek fans.  Readers will get a brand new ship, a new crew, and a younger version of one of the best Starfleet captains ever to helm a ship.  If new readers have hesitated about trying to read one of the other series because so many volumes have been published about the crews of those ships, GAUNTLET is an excellent place to start, a new team in the licensed franchise to root for.	2002-04-30
US	50905801	R1LSORN6HP8TFK	0374309213	959160648	The Boxer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Definite Contender	Kathleen Karr's THE BOXER is a great story about a young man who makes his own way in the world and reaches for dreams that he would have never dared if life hadn't forced him to succeed.  Fifteen-year old Johnny Woods dropped out of school and started working 12-hour days in a sweatshop ironing clothes to help his mother support his five younger siblings.  His dad ran out on them a long time ago.  But the money Johnny makes hardly puts a dent in the mounting bills the struggling family faces.  Then, one night, he reads an ad on Brodie's Saloon about a boxing match.  Whoever wins the boxing match receives a five-dollar prize purse.  In 1885 New York City's Lower East Side, five dollars is a month's rent.  Johnny signs up, gets his first bout and may be on his way to winning his first match, then gets arrested by the New York City Police.  In 1885, prize-fighting was illegal, especially the way the sport was run in Brodie's Saloon.  Sentenced to six months in jail, Johnny figures out he's got to change his life, and he finds the man to help him do it.  Michael O'Shaunnessey, called Perfessor by those who know him, was a boxer and fight manager, and he begins training young Johnny.  Using his wits, his muscle, and his courage, Johnny begins the transformation that will forever alter his life and the lives of those around him.<br />An author of a number of books, Kathleen Karr apparently loves to blend her fiction with history and real people.  Other books she's written include SKULLDUGGERY (a story about a young boy helping a well-meaning grave robber practice his trade), THE GREAT TURKEY WALK (the tale of a boy herding turkeys to Denver, and the book was on the Best Book of the Year lists by SCHOOL LIBRARY JOURNAL and PUBLISHER'S WEEKLY), and the Petticoat Party series (books about young girls going West on a wagon train.  Her heroines and heroes are always well-done and draw readers into their problems and into the stories.<br />THE BOXER is an excellent tale and a fantastic read.  The author brings images of late 19th century New York City's slum areas and lifestyles into view for young readers without hitting them over the head with history.  She doesn't describe the events like they're history.  She presents Johnny's world as it is and as he sees it.  Of course, many readers will note the difference between then and now, but Karr leaves that up to the reader rather than drawing special importance to those facts.  Karr's ear for dialogue, both internal in the first-person point of view and in the conversations between the characters, is true to life, but written so that the words on the page pass amazingly quick.  She keeps up a rapid pace that encourages young readers to keep turning page.  The focus she maintains on the family, and Johnny's growing vision of the family's plight and what he can do about it, is fantastic.  Johnny is a great hero, but remains very human in the reader's view.<br />The only thing that needed a little more attention was the last fight.  Karr builds the readers up to an all-or-nothing finish, yet the final showdown is somehow anti-climatic.  However, the interweaving of the Perfessor's knowing remarks with scenes from the battle in progress are nicely done.<br />Anyone interested in getting a glimpse of the past through the eyes of a hero with a great heart will enjoy this book.  Readers that like fiction that is fast-paced and filled with dialogue will blaze through this story.  In addition to an enjoyable read, readers will make a new friend and gain a mentor in Johnny Woods, inside and outside the boxing ring.  THE BOXER is a fun read, and the book is emotionally uplifting.fantastic read.  The author brings images of late 19th century New York City's slum areas and lifestyles into view for young readers without hitting them over the head with history.  She doesn't describe the events like they're history.  She presents Johnny's world as it is and as he sees it.  Of course, many readers will note the difference between then and now, but Karr leaves that up to the reader rather than drawing special importance to those facts.  Karr's ear for dialogue, both internal in the first-person point of view and in the conversations between the characters, is true to life, but written so that the words on the page pass amazingly quick.  She keeps up a rapid pace that encourages young readers to keep turning page.  The focus she maintains on the family, and Johnny's growing vision of the family's plight and what he can do about it, is fantastic.  Johnny is a great hero, but remains very human in the reader's view.<br />The only thing that needed a little more attention was the last fight.  Karr builds the readers up to an all-or-nothing finish, yet the final showdown is somehow anti-climatic.  However, the interweaving of the Perfessor's knowing remarks with scenes from the battle in progress are nicely done.<br />Anyone interested in getting a glimpse of the past through the eyes of a hero with a great heart will enjoy this book.  Readers that like fiction that is fast-paced and filled with dialogue will blaze through this story.  In addition to an enjoyable read, readers will make a new friend and gain a mentor in Johnny Woods, inside and outside the boxing ring.  THE BOXER is a fun read, and the book is emotionally uplifting.	2002-04-27
US	50905801	R3P2RS0IRI79TL	0892967382	291476036	Sinister Heights (The Amos Walker Series #16)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Down and Dirty	SINISTER HEIGHTS is Loren Estleman's latest foray into the world of Amos Walker, Detroit's toughest lone wolf private eye.  Estleman hews true to the hard-boiled school established by Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett, presenting a battered hero who walks mean streets peopled with men and women who all have secret agendas.  The author mixes a twisted plot with biting social commentary and historical footnotes of Motor City.  In SINISTER HEIGHTS, Amos Walker is drawn back into a web of past acquaintances and places he's had dealings with before.  Iroquois Heights, nicknamed Sinister Heights, is not a place Walker wants to go, yet he's put onto the trail of potential missing heirs of an automotive magnate, Leland Stutch.  Rayellen Stutch, the billionaire's widow, hires Walker to find her dead husband's illegitimate daughter and the family she begat to give them some of the money left to her.  On the surface, the effort is a charitable one, but Walker has a cynical streak about him from everything he's seen in his chosen career.  The hunt for the missing heirs becomes a mission of life and death, and the rugged P. I. soon finds himself in the cross hairs of an unknown enemy and in the arms of an old lover whose life becomes endangered as well.<br />Estleman is an accomplished writer in the fields of mysteries and westerns.  But his range is far deeper and more compelling than simply a cursory coverage of these genres.  In addition to the Amos Walker series, Estleman also details the lives of Peter Macklin, hit man, and Page Murdock, US Deputy Marshal of the Old West.  Several other crime novels dip into the murderous, violent, and political history of Detroit.  Estleman has also written more novels of the Old West, including a book about a hangman called THE MASTER EXECUTIONER.  THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN MOVING PICTURE ASSOCIATION is a novel about the early years of the movie industry.  Early novels, such as SHERLOCK HOLMES VS. DRACULA and DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HOLMES show the range and interest of Estleman's writing.  A confirmed western or historical novel or mystery reader will always find something of interest in his backlist.<br />Estleman is a great gritty detective writer.  His plots have enough twists and turns in them to keep a Grand Prix driver on his toes, and he manages to stay one step ahead of the reader.  The interior dialogue given voice by Walker paints the city, the situations, and the people in crisp, colorful prose.  And in dialogue swapped between characters, Estleman reveals personality, irony, and humor.  Estleman's ear for conversations is good, carrying the vocabulary and cadence of the people he portrays.  The action scenes carry a lot of weight, and Estleman plants the reader at ground zero, letting the audience hear and feel the harsh hammer of flesh against bone, the slap of bullets cutting through the air.<br />One area that could have used a little tweaking was near the end.  Part of the plot centers around an attack by truckers that raze buildings to the ground.  Walker was in the middle of action at the time, but the premise was striking and perhaps needed a little more of Walker's involvement even though he was watching.  Also, the final villain--although present throughout the book--seemed to come out of left field to a degree.  These areas weren't enough to throw off an overall enjoyable read, but they were present.  The Walker mysteries aren't presented as exercises in which to match wits with the detective, but a better chance to figure things out might have been in order and cut down on the character exposition during the climax.<br />SINISTER HEIGHTS is a good solid read for anyone interested in hardboiled private eye fare.  If you have never read an Amos Walker novel, you can read Estleman's stuff pretty much in any order.  Rather than being a continued story as some mystery novelists tend to these days, Estleman still continues working on the mosiac that is Amos Walker.  A reader can drop in any time and pick up the pace easily without feeling like he or she has missed out on anything that has gone on before.  Fans who have enjoyed Robert B. Parker, Elmore Leonard, Robert Crais, George Pelecanos, and Greg Rucka will enjoy SINISTER HEIGHTS.y time and pick up the pace easily without feeling like he or she has missed out on anything that has gone on before.  Fans who have enjoyed Robert B. Parker, Elmore Leonard, Robert Crais, George Pelecanos, and Greg Rucka will enjoy SINISTER HEIGHTS.	2002-04-24
US	50905801	R3HXXZNKRF4NKB	0440410487	121290851	The Treasure of El Patron (Gary Paulsen World of Adventure)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Treasure of El Patron	I always enjoy a Gary Paulsen book when I sit down with it.  I can count on this author for an exciting tale told in a lively fashion, and characters I can really believe in.  Tag and Cowboy (the heroes of this story) believe in treasures and in themselves.<br />I liked the way that Tag's dad found the treasure and left clues for Tag to find it as well.  If you like fun, fast-paced adventure, this is a book you'll like a lot.	2001-09-25
