US	50907577	RYXXASH3SIN51	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The price of identity	In this book, an unattached, disengaged 36 year old man and a strange, troubled 12 year old boy teach each other how to grow up.  The theme of the book seems to be that, in order to participate fully in life, we must make  choices concerning how to be, but we also must make compromises.  Nothing  is gained without a price.  And we must weight carefully the worth of what  we are willing to sacrifice for what we hope to exchange.  After all, what  is at stake is more than just fitting in or engaging with people, it's our  identity.  <br />In the course of the novel, and through his relationship with  Marcus, Will comes to trade security, comfort, detachment, disengagement,  and a kind of anti-hero sense of rugged egocentrism for participation with  others.  It's not a struggle easily won.  But, we are gratified when it is,  because, until it is, Will is barely alive.  He has money, security, and  spends days entertaining himself for himself alone; in many ways he has an  ideal life.  But Hornby takes pains to demonstrate the vacuity of this kind  of life.  One of the points of the book is that isolation is a kind of  curse.  Will is a kind of laboratory with which to explore this idea  because he is unlike the other characters.  His isolation is carefully  chosen and nurtured, while the other characters are desperate for  contact.<br />Marcus serves as a kind of laboratory, too.  He is genuinely  nice and has special qualities that distance him from his classmates.  But,  as we all know, making one's way in school demands conformity.  Because he  is kind of weird, Marcus is perhaps justifiably teased.  And because he  lives alone with a suicidal mother, Marcus decides that having more people  around him is better than living with all one's eggs in one basket - safety  from isolation in numbers as it were.  Yet, at the end Marcus, too, grows  up and learns to conform.  He gains more people in his life, but perhaps  there's a hint that the price he pays for this conformity may be  soul-crushing.  After all, he learns to be more like the former Will.   <br />And, it's hard to know what to think about this.  But, if anything, this  beautiful book teaches us not to be so cavalier with the choices we make.   Because everything is a trade-off.	2000-07-06
US	50907577	R3B5PHZYB9U0JE	0440328810	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Explores universal moral conflicts	Foremost, Giovanni's Room is beautifully written.  Baldwin writes incredibly well.  <br />It would be a mistake to see this book as singularly about homosexuality (and to either read it, or not, because of that alone).   Baldwin explores universal problems using a specific character and  context. <br />What's most impressive is the way he describes, and then  captures the consequences, of the moral dilemma.  Though the context is  homosexuality, I think similar conflict happens all too often, especially  in relationships.  You think you should be one thing or feel one way, and  everything in your social, religious, intellectual voice tells you're right  - except how you deep down feel.  Baldwin has this one line about how hard  it is to say &quot;yes&quot; to life.  In that passage, I think he refers  to how hard it is to reject your conventional self and embrace your deep  down feelings. And this conflict could be about anything. <br />Then, too,  Baldwin shows how, the stronger you love someone who provokes such   internal conflict, the stronger your own self-hatred and hatred for that  person.  How terrible to most want to hurt the person you most love.	2000-06-12
US	50907577	R38YM6UZJYKHU5	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	268	275	N	N	Worth a second opinion	I wasn't sure what to think while I was reading.  But, I couldn't put this down. While reading, I thought Barzun crammed tightly so many ideas, events, details, and biographies that he verged on stimulus overload.   Later, when remembering names or events that I encountered when watching TV  or reading, I realized how much of the book is retainable.<br />Barzun is a  famous stylist.  Given how much I admire his writing, I was at first  disappointed in the prose.  This is not to say that it's written poorly.   Only that I think Barzun was more concerned with imparting information in a  straightforward way.  Nevertheless, certain passages still sing.  <br />I was  also at first put off by the many biographies interspersed throughout the  narrative.  But, then again, after awhile I looked forward to them.  They  not only add information about famous persons, but color.<br />Barzun believes  certain ideas-individualism, primitivism, self-consciousness, etc-are  singularly Western.  He uses all capital letters to denote these ideas each  time they appear in the narrative.  At first, these bothered me because I  thought they were trite.  But, again, I realized that Barzun was attempting  to remind readers of the consistency of Western thought.  He demonstrates  that so many modern or even post-modern theories, which claim to be  avant-guard and even anti-Western, really have deep cultural roots in the  very things they revile.  <br />This book is a challenge to those finding it  fashionable to denounce Western Civilization.  As Barzun says:  &quot;[T]he  West offered the world a set of ideas and institutions not found earlier or  elsewhere.&quot;  We are rightly proud of them.	2000-06-01
US	50907577	R8UHFTBUDSMDY	0300065299	869191079	Reclaiming the Canon: Essays on Philosophy, Poetry, and History	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Perfect 10	The title suggests this is another polemic in the &quot;canon wars.&quot;  But it isn't, at least not directly.  Sinaiko defends the canon not by running down selections by feminist or multicultural theorists but by  showing why the great books-by Homer, Plato, Tolstoy, etc.-are great books.   <br />He does not do this through argument.  Alone, such arguments often fall  on deaf ears because they are simply not convincing.  Instead, by stepping  readers through the process of detail-oriented, deep reading Sinaiko shows  why, for example, after 2500 years Homer still has something to say to  modern readers.<br />The best thing about Sinaiko's method is that he does  what so many college professors fail to do today:  demonstrate the tangible  reward of taking time with great books.  Sometime, as with Tolstoy's War  and Peace, he does this by showing the relation between a novel's plot and  its structure.  Other times, as with Homer's Iliad, Sinaiko concentrates on  small details (like Homer's similes) contained in the writing of the lines  themselves.  <br />Sinaiko communicates simply and effectively.  His tone is  never pedantic or authoritarian.  Instead, he writes as if these were  lectures, which they were.  The effect one gets in reading is as though one  was in class with a master teacher.  At once, it is humbling because we see  the demonstrable skill of a master.  But it is also uplifting.  We are  inspired to read these books and to imitate the attention he gives to them.	2000-05-23
US	50907577	R15K86JIAGEC07	0691007136	343302518	The Roots of Romanticism	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Revolt against the Enlightenment	Berlin's thesis is that romanticism arose as a reaction to the Enlightenment.  The axioms of the Enlightenment are that:  all the great questions have valid, objective answers; these answers can be obtained by  certain methods (i.e., rationalism and the scientific method); they can be  stated as propositions that are compatible with one another; and these  answers, or propositions, point to the ideal, perfect state of affairs.   <br />Romanticism proposes two counter ideas.  One is that there is no  objective structure of things.  Thus, there is no pattern to which  individuals must adapt themselves.  The second is that values are not  something to be discovered and understood, but created.  The result of  these ideas is that an individual's universe is what he or she chooses to  make it.  Hence, the heart of romanticism is invention and creation.  This  accounts for the various manifestations of the movement-individualism,  nationalism, emotionalism, etc.<br />This book began as a series of lectures.   As such, it is easy to read.  Berlin presents complicated ideas in a  simple, straightforward manner.  My only criticism is that the book is  mistitled.  Berlin was a philosopher.  He concentrates on ideas, but this  narrow focus hardly describes the roots of the Romantic Movement.  There is  little discussion of either the historical, political, or social events  that gave rise to romanticism.  Berlin treats the romantic ideas as if they  appeared in a vacuum.  For a deeper understanding of the historical roots  of romanticism, I'd recommend Jacques Barzun's Classic, Romantic, and  Modern or his Romanticism and the Modern Ego.	2000-05-22
US	50907577	R3D1VS52UAOG3G	0226038475	127238409	Begin Here: The Forgotten Conditions of Teaching and Learning	Books	5	114	118	N	N	Well written and argued critique	There are many ideas in this devastating critique of contemporary universities and of the educational system in general.<br />According to Barzun, the advent of making research profitable (through grants, the  publish-or-perish mentality, etc.) has fatally wounded universities.  Before this, teachers were teachers first.  Research was conducted on a  teacher's own time, and important works were often published at the end of  a teacher's long career of teaching, reading, and thinking about a subject.<br />In contrast, teachers today resent students because students take time  away from research.  The publish-or-perish doctrine has resulted in a wash  of triviality.  Information that was once a footnote is now the subject of  an article.  What was once an article is now a book.<br />Barzun also  disapproves of the politicization of universities.  Teachers, he says,  should concern themselves with providing the tools needed to get along in  the world:  reading, writing, counting, and thinking.  The result of those  tools should be of no interest of the teacher - because it isn't any of  their business.<br />Primary education is little better than the  universities.  Educators fall under the spell of their own rhetoric.  No  one can teach creativity, self-esteem, etc., and teachers should stop  claiming that they do.  Instead, teachers should teach those subjects that  are teachable:  reading, writing, thinking, and counting.	2000-05-22
US	50907577	R3BZIS7YFQX0JZ	0684859068	302392775	How To Read and Why	Books	5	233	245	N	N	Showing by sincere example	The title of the book is misleading.  Those looking for, as the title suggests it is, a primer on how to read literature deeply will be disappointed.  Aside from a few pointers in the beginning, Bloom really  does not explicitly address strategies for how to read and appreciate  literature.  In my opinion, this is unfortunate because such a book can be  written and would be useful.    <br />What Bloom does instead is discuss a  variety of novels and short stories.  Perhaps Bloom is attempting to show  how to read by providing examples of how he reads.  As such, this succeeds,  and the examples he provides are generally good ones.  <br />I praise Bloom  for writing as if he was one reader simply talking to another. I wish all  his books were like this one.  Gone is the academic Bloom who can't even  take time to read his students' papers.  That Bloom is replaced by someone  who wants to communicate simply his love for books and for reading.  Along  the way he illuminates many of the novels and short stories he reviews.  In  this book Bloom follows the examples of his heroes, Johnson and Hazlitt,  and brings readers closer to great books by showing what makes them great.   Given the state of contemporary literary criticism, this is a welcome  relief.  Bloom returns to being what a critic should be.	2000-05-22
US	50907577	R1JSH1KH6IG19D	0789446030	358233662	Sister Wendy's 1000 Masterpieces	Books	1	21	66	N	N	Sister Wendy knows nothing about art	Despite her popular success, Sister Wendy knows nothing about art.<br />In attempting to bring art appreciation to the public, there is nothing more noble than what Sister Wendy is doing. What I question is the kind of  appreciation she brings. <br />Sister Wendy's methodology is to tell stories  about paintings. That is, she tells stories about the content of paintings.  But, there is more to art than content. If content was the only important  issue in art, there would be no need for various artistic mediums. After  all, photography is just as good, if not quite a bit better, at factual  representation than painting. Or, for example, if the idea content of  fiction was the only reason for reading literature, there would be no  reason to read literature. Non-fiction essays or histories would do just as  well. Indeed, it requires little or no training to move from the unique,  intrinsic character of a work itself to the ideas or facts with which the  work is concerned. But, no one, aside from perhaps Sister Wendy and her  ilk, looks at art, listens to      music, or reads literature simply for  content, for content alone can do nothing to reveal the sources of pleasure  that a particular work affords.<br />Instead, aesthetes &quot;prattle on about  color, technique, or social context&quot; because those ingredients add to,  not distract from, the experience of art. For example, critics study color  theory because color effects people's emotions. Understanding how an artist  manipulates color to achieve a certain effect helps one understand how art  achieves its emotional impact. <br />Indeed, study of artistic technique is  vital for appreciation of the arts because without it there is no  vocabulary with which to discuss one's experience of enjoyment (and without           vocabulary, perhaps there is no thought or enjoyment). And, even  if content held preeminent position in the aesthetic hierarchy, techniques  such as color, form and composition, positive and negative space, or meter,  structure, rhyme scheme help explicate the content.<br />After all, what is  aesthetic experience if not the alert perception of art?	2000-05-22
US	50907577	R57B43THLJ3KG	0786866314	704116610	Relationship Rescue: A Seven-Step Strategy for Reconnecting with You Partner	Books	5	18	23	N	N	How to risk	Venturing into a relationship is scary because the risk is so large.  The more we admit love, the more vulnerable we become to the judgement, and possible rejection, of our beloved.  Dr. Phil's book shows how to change  from judging ourselves based upon the views of others.  And this is very  valuable.   <br />The alternative to carrying past scars forever, or from  allowing past hurt to interfere with future relationships ultimately,  according to Dr. Phil, lies with our own actions, and our thinking behind  those actions.  Dr. Phil's exercises are designed to facilitate  understanding of ourselves, our actions, beliefs, fears, expectation, etc.   The more we know about ourselves, the better the choices and decisions we  can make about our relationships.	2000-05-15
US	50907577	R1PJZDNKBHTVRR	0446364495	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	32	43	N	N	Exemplar of bad prose	This exemplar of bad prose is about a Marlboro Man photographer and the woman he beautifies through his great art.  He's sensitive, she's needy, and he is a demon in her cold bed.   <br />As for the prose, how's this for  awful: &quot;If you took me in your arms and carried me to your truck and  forced me to go with you, I wouldn't murmur a complaint. You could do the  same thing just by talking to me.  But I don't think you will.  You're too  sensitive, too aware of my feelings, for that. . . . My life . . . lacks  romance, eroticism, dancing in the kitchen to candlelight, and the  wonderful feel of a man who knows how to love a woman. . . .&quot;<br />The  wonderful feel of a man who knows how to love a woman?  Is it not already  obvious why this is bad?  The entire phenomena of this book and its  enormous popularity tells us that we, as a reading populace, are in love  with what's bad.  Apparently, what we love is talk that doesn't sound like  people but that does sound like speeches made by persons on the page,  written by someone who doesn't listen to the rest of the world or know how  to make a plausible imitation of it.   <br />The appeal of this book is to the  language of television, of bodice-rippers, of the Harlequin Romance.  It is  incapable and irresponsible writing, unmediated by thought or the gift of  artifice, or by the author's belief in a character sufficient enough to  move him.	2000-05-15
US	50907577	REP56S0YMBKGI	0393007367	103876003	Shakespeare Our Contemporary (Norton Library)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Essays Against the Grain	This is a book of interpretive essays about many, but not all, of Shakespeare's plays.  Other than Harold Goddard's The Meaning of Shakespeare, this is the best book of Shakespearean criticism I've read.<br />Written in plain, but elegant prose, these essays reveal a darker  Shakespeare than most commentators admit.  Kott was a fighter in the Polish  resistance and assumes Shakespeare must have had knowledge of political  repression and loss of freedom.<br />The best of the essays deal with the  History plays.  Kott argues that all of the History plays are about power  and use the metaphor of a staircase.  A king is shown to be weak or unjust,  a usurper claws his way to the top and then must remove all rivals, and  then is toppled by another.  Different plays show different pieces of this  process.  Lear views the staircase from the way down.  Richard III is about  his joyful ascent up the staircase.  The various Henry's (and Richard II  and King John) show its endless cycle.<br />The essay on Richard III must  have been the inspiration behind the interpretation used by the recent  movie version with Ian McKellum.<br />The essay about Othello concentrates  on the evil power of Iago.  Is there an wonder why Iago is silent in the  end?  According to Kott, it is because his worldview has won.<br />The essay  on A Midsummer Night's Dream challenges the normal interpretations that  this is a happy comedy about confused love.  According to Kott, the play is  really about the animosity and power struggle behind love, and rather than  loving, the characters really compete with one another.	2000-05-15
US	50907577	R12BSJKI6DDI2M	0521422817	383860912	An Experiment in Criticism (Canto)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	How to experience art	According to Lewis, we judge a person's taste by what he or she reads.  Instead, Lewis proposes an experiment:  to judge literature by the way person read it.  Thus, good literature is that which compels good reading.  <br />Lewis begins his discussion of good reading by an analysis of viewing  pictures and listening to music - to the experience of art generally.  Of  the two ways to experience art, receiving and using, receiving art is best  because it helps us transcend ourselves.  When we receive art we allow our  senses to follow the pattern defined by the artist.  The art thus enriches  our life, allowing us to see or experience something foreign and new.  On  the other hand, when we use art, we are merely using it to confirm or  facilitate ideas, feelings, and beliefs that we already hold.  We have not  allowed art to enrich our life. <br />Lewis mostly defines good reading by  comparing it to bad reading.  He, of course, describes in detail these  habits.  Ultimately, Lewis believes that we read literature to transcend  ourselves, and yet paradoxically we are never more ourselves than when we  do.	2000-05-15
US	50907577	RLOT449ZQ6PQ6	157322751X	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	3	33	43	N	N	There are better books about the plays	Don't be fooled by the hype.  Bloom has received a lot of press lately.  He's old. He's a character. He's opinionated.  But these facts do not make his book on Shakespeare worth buying.<br />In presenting essays on each of  Shakespeare's plays, Bloom copies Harold Goddard's The Meaning of  Shakespeare. But, Goddard's book is much better, and the essays are all  thoughtful and beautifully written.<br />The same is not true of Bloom's book.   He concentrates on Hamlet, Henry V, Othello, and others at the expense of  providing thoughtful comments on each play.  Some essays are so brief they  seem either to have come from less of a lover of Shakespeare than Bloom  professes to be, from someone too lazy to deftly treat each play, or from  someone who really only wanted to write about some plays but felt obligated  to include all plays.<br />This would have been a better book if Bloom had  concentrated on only those plays needed to prove his thesis.<br />Get Harold  Goddard's book instead.  Also try Jan Kott's Shakespeare Our Contemporary.   They are better.	2000-05-15
US	50907577	R102KQS7LXBYQ9	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Read it as an allegory	For potential readers and previous reviewers who are reading this book literally (i.e., as about a real plague), try instead reading it as an allegory.  An allegory is something that can be read on various levels.  As  such, it can have more than one meaning: a surface meaning and a deeper  meaning.<br />The surface meaning is about a plague, but remember where and  when Camus lived. Perhaps Camus is trying to say something about living in  Nazi occupied France.  Maybe the plague acts as a symbol for the Nazis.  See if reading the book this way changes your opinion or deepens your  appreciation.	2000-05-12
US	50907577	R22DCDZ6XECW5I	0805420479	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	72	78	N	N	Need For Universal Truth	Attack on the idea of universal truth and the values that derive from it is stronger now than in 1944 when this book was written.  Yet, despite many rhetorical defenses of universal truth and values launched in the  &quot;culture wars,&quot; this remains one of, if not the best, defenses of  universal truth and values.<br />Lewis believes in Natural Laws - laws of  morality, such as duty to children, parents, elders, the &quot;golden  rule,&quot; mercy, magnanimity, justice - which have been accepted both  throughout history and by varied cultures.  Lewis calls these laws  &quot;the Tao.&quot;<br />The problem as Lewis outlines it, is that if  nothing is self-evident (i.e., true), then nothing can be proven.  And, if  nothing is obligatory because it is self-evident, then nothing is  obligatory for its own sake, i.e., because it is true.  If nothing is  obligatory, then rules of conduct are subject to pleasure or whim and are  enforced only by power of some over others.  Ultimately, this robs of us  our humanity. Lewis says, &quot;A dogmatic belief in objective value is  necessary to the very idea of a rule which is not tyranny or an obedience  which is not slavery.&quot;<br />The consequence of rejecting the idea of  universal truth, or &quot;the Tao,&quot; is the destruction of the society  which rejects it.  This is, as Lewis says, tragically comical because  &quot;we continue to clamour for those very qualities we are rendering  impossible.&quot;	2000-05-11
US	50907577	RFZ956F7DIJJ	0805420495	21086024	The Problem of Pain	Books	5	165	176	N	N	Why we have pain	Lewis analyzes the fundamental question, or problem, of pain:  how can God be omnipotent and yet allow pain (war, injury, cruelty, etc.)?  Lewis's answer has many levels.  Foremost, is that nature had to be created with  certain unchangeable properties.  For example, the same hardness which  allows wood to serve as a beam in my house allows it to serve as an  instrument of potential injury, as when that beam collapses and hits my  head.   <br />The world also had to be created neutral so that humans could  interact equally with one another, i.e., those same, unchanging properties  of wood allow it to be manipulated similarly by anyone.  But, obviously a  neutral world contains the potential for good or evil.  Wood can be used to  build a home, which is good, or to create a weapon, which is evil.  But,  this is what makes us human.  We have free will.  <br />If I choose evil, God  could not intervene.  For to intervene some times but not others would be  unjust and illogical (this is why miracles, if you believe in them, are  extraordinarily rare).  And to intervene once is to intervene always.   Imagine if God intervened each time one person was going to cause another,  or himself, pain.  If he did, we all would be puppets, not humans.  <br />Another interesting idea in this book is that of Original Sin.   According to Lewis, we have not inherited Adam's sin, as is commonly  believed, but instead everyday face Adam's identical choice, perhaps  thousands of times a day.  For Adam's sin was not disobedience in eating  the apple, but in choosing himself over God.  Adam had the opportunity to  see himself either as a creation or an individual self existing apart from  God.  Thus, according to Lewis, a final reason for pain, is that it is  God's wake-up call that we have, in constantly choosing ourselves, chosen  the wrong thing.<br />This is a profound and provocative book.	2000-05-11
US	50907577	R2AX4VILPGQI09	0691048754	269233623	On Beauty and Being Just.	Books	2	18	25	N	N	I'm sympathetic, but this is not great	Scarry doesn't quite get the job done.  That's disappointing because I couldn't be more receptive or sympathetic to the case she is trying to make:  namely that beauty seeks to replicate itself, and as such leads to  absolute truth and the quest for justice.  Since I already believe those  things, she would not have had to do much to win me.<br />But, for me, that's  the problem:  she doesn't do much.  Although deeply personal and obviously  heartfelt, her case for beauty in Part One was not as strong as it could  be.  One might be better off going back to read the original inspirations  behind her argument, Homer, Dante, and Plato's Symposium and Phaedrus.     <br />Part two is no better.  Scarry tries to defend the aesthetic movement  (and case for beauty) from recent claims in humanities that there are no  absolute truth and that the contemplation of beauty may actually be  destructive.  Again, I could hardly be more sympathetic to her cause, but  she doesn't make a strong enough case.  I think she argues against a straw  man, and thus doesn't really face the true arguments behind such movements  as historicism, deconstruction, egalitarianism.	2000-05-10
US	50907577	R2EX0DN8WEVUWK	039397278X	46808097	Jude the Obscure (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Agony of Moral Decisions	This book is about the struggle of having character.  As such, it addresses perhaps a timeless question:  should we follow our hearts and do what we want or should we follow convention and do what we think is demanded?  <br />Although they try desperately, and for a time succeed, Jude  and Sue never fully escape the demands of conscious, obligation, and social  convention.  And it destroys them.  Jude and Sue thus personify the  agonizing struggle to make moral decisions.  If we knew right from wrong,  we would choose right every time.  But, what makes Jude and Sue's struggles  so painful is that they are trying to choose between right and right, or  wrong and wrong.  Either decision provides as much pain, although in a  different way.  So what do you do?     <br />Hardy doesn't give any easy  answers.  But, especially today when most of us all the time do exactly  what we want, perhaps the question is worth thinking seriously about.	2000-05-09
US	50907577	R1YMIGZJAGL1AP	0704301245	885204554	The Diary of Vaslav Nijinsky	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Religious Mysticism	Vaslav Nijinsky was 30 when he wrote his &quot;autobiography.&quot;  Not long after, he became a catatonic schizophrenic, remaining so for the final 30 years of his life.  At the time, he was considered the world's greatest  ballet dancer.<br />As it is a totally unselfconscious reflection of madness,  this is difficult and painful to read.  Because the diary reflects the  rapid flight of ideas, unsympathetic readers may be tempted to turn away.  However, Nijinsky's thought contains underlying patterns.<br />Perhaps the  most interesting, although most easily misunderstood, aspect of Nijinsky's  thought is his religious views.  He says, &quot;I am God.  I am God.  I am  God.&quot;  Still other time he says, &quot;I am God through feeling.&quot;  Perhaps this is schizophrenic crankery.<br />But perhaps Nijinsky is saying  that, when he danced, he felt so alive, or whatever you will, that he  became God, as which happens with mystics.  Thus, his expressions of  Godliness are not meant as blasphemy but as the highest expression of  artistic achievement, similar to a Van Gogh Starry night or his trees,  which look like they are on fire.<br />If you can stand it, this is worth the  effort.	2000-05-08
US	50907577	R3Q47H0VH322D2	014006690X	822688378	The Women of Brewster Place (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	58	61	N	N	Loved By A White Male	I remember female classmates telling me that, as a white male, I could never understand this book.  In one sense, they were right.  I don't read a lot of books by black females.  But, in another sense, they were dead  wrong.  <br />Gloria Naylor gives lie to the notion that authors and readers  must be bound by their self-stereotypes and that persons of diverse racial  or economic backgrounds cannot understand each other.  This book is  beautiful.<br />Yes, the majority of characters are black women from the  ghetto.  But, like true literature, this book isn't really about so select  a group.  The experiences and feelings of these women are transcendent -  transcendent because they are &quot;real&quot; persons first and black  women second.  <br />For example, Naylor describes the grief a young mother  suffers for an infant who has died after sticking its finger into an  electric socket.  The grief Naylor captures is universal.  If mystics have  experiences in which they have such joy it makes them feel one with the  universe, then Naylor does the same thing here, only with pain.<br />And isn't  this what literature is supposed to do:  make us understand ourselves  better by showing life as someone else, someone who may be 100% different  than us?  And by gaining a glimpse that perhaps we are not as different  from others as we assumed, don't we join the world a little more?	2000-05-05
US	50907577	R1HMECCOAU4XKX	0393964523	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Critical Essays	With Norton Critical Editions readers get the text of the novel and historical and contemporary essays in criticism.  The ones in this version are some of the best Norton has ever compiled.  <br />Both the historical and  contemporary essays provide a compelling aesthetic case for why this novel  is not merely a book for boys but one of the best English novels ever  written.  Thus, these essays not only highlight aspects of your reading you  may or may not have noted but present a case for Defoe's skill as a  writer.<br />A very short essay not to missed is the one by Defoe himself on  solitude. It gives one pause.	2000-05-04
US	50907577	R35GBOLSAU3I10	0226300412	97204488	001: The Meaning of Shakespeare, Volume 1 (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	96	96	N	N	Best Shakespeare Criticism	Other writers about Shakespeare have tried to equal Goddard's labor of love, most recently Harold Bloom's Shakespeare: The Art of the Human. None come close, although Jan Kott's Shakespeare Our Contemporary is also great,  as is Allan Bloom's Shakespeare's Politics.  In fact, Goddard makes Harold  Bloom's effort look like it was written by a boy.<br />Goddard writes  thoughtful, highly readable, analytic essays about each of the plays. His  interpretations are the most original, but well-argued I've ever seen. Yet  they frequently deviate from traditional interpretations.  For example,  Goddard makes a case against the much-loved, jingoistic interpretation of  Henry V; Goddard reads much darker implications. In his essay about Romeo  and Juliet, Goddard argues that the play is not about star-crossed lovers,  but about Romeo's inability to match Juliet's love, which is the real  source of tragedy.<br />It's hard to disagree once you've read Goddard's  interpretations, but even when you do, you'll be richer for the experience.<br />For those of you interested in &quot;old-fashioned&quot; literary  criticism, when writers considered it their duty, not to obscure the text  or to deconstruct it, but to make difficult works more accessible, than  this is for you. This is a purchase you will never regret.	2000-05-04
US	50907577	RWN0OWHNDUT6V	0393964523	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Excellent Critical Essays	With Norton Critical Editions readers get the text of the novel and historical and contemporary essays in criticism.  The ones in this version are some of the best Norton has ever compiled.  <br />Both the historical and  contemporary essays provide a compelling aesthetic case for why this novel  is not merely a book for boys but one of the best English novels ever  written.  Thus, these essays not only highlight aspects of your reading you  may or may not have noted but present a case for Defoe's skill as a  writer.<br />A very short essay not to missed is the one by Defoe himself on  solitude. It gives one pause.	2000-05-04
US	50907577	R3JOICZ70XU5NB	039395904X	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Read Goddard's Essay	This is another Norton Critical Edition at its finest.  Obviously, many of the essays are volleys shot to support one side or the other of the great literary debate:  was the governess crazy or are there really ghosts.   <br />The not-to-be-missed essay is the one by Harold Goddard.  In my opinion,  it settles the debate conclusively.  Goddard was an English teacher who  first suggested that the story is not a ghost story but an interior  monolgue about a crazy governess.  His essay was found in a trunk after his  death and published later.  It's a marvel in logic, rhetoric, style, and  clarity.  Plus, it's even more interesting given that such a thoughtful and  well-written essay was not intended for an audience; it was simply  Goddard's own notes to himself, which he sometimes shared with his  students.  He presumably had no idea how influential or provocative it  would become.        <br />Also not to be missed is Leo Marx's witty and  thought provoking essay.  I think (hope) it was written tongue-in-check  because it reads like a parody of so many criticisms of this story.  But,  at the same time it presents a good argument.	2000-05-04
US	50907577	R27PODAI24MVKP	0521477352	733825607	The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature (Canto)	Books	5	135	137	N	N	A Lesson in Good Teaching	The title sounds like something for the specialist in Medieval literature, doesn't it?  Don't be put off by that or by the subject matter.  There are a number of reasons to read this book.  <br />Here is Lewis the common  teacher, not the religious writer.  You will find no polemic here.  But,  paradoxically, Lewis may be more persuasive and display more passion when  he is neither trying to persuade nor be passionate.  This book originated  in a series of lectures, and it shows.  There is love for both subject and  reader on every page.  Lewis writes simply and beautifully, so those of you  interested in fine prose will find much here.  <br />Perhaps the most  interesting aspect of the book is the comparison Lewis draws between  ancient and Medieval thought and the modern.  Sometimes these comparisons  are direct, but more often they are subtle, implicit.  But, by continually  pairing the two worldviews, whether directly or not, Lewis leads us, like  the master teacher he was, to reflect on our own way of thinking. <br />For  example, Lewis highlights good and bad aspects of Medieval writing.  For  one, Medieval writing revels in detail.  This can be rich or boring,  depending.  But, the reason for such detail, Lewis suggests, is that  Medieval writers were contemplating a world they loved and felt part of.   Thus, to a lover, details about one's beloved are never overdone.  In  contrast, most of us feel somewhat alienated in today's society, don't we?   <br />Lewis also suggests that Medieval writers copied earlier writers.  Early  writings are, like Cathedrals, products of many craftsmen.  The need to be  original or creative was subsumed by humility.  Medieval writers did not  want focus, like so many of today's artists, on themselves.  Instead, they  wanted to direct attention to contemplation of the figures and subjects of  their writing.  Pride in craft may have been present, but is was  subordinate to love of subje	2000-05-03
US	50907577	RINJUGLIHB2DO	0385494238	654180128	Amsterdam	Books	3	8	8	N	N	With His Little Finger	Harold Goddard once wrote that in comparison to his great tragedies, Shakespeare's comedies seem as though they were dashed off by his little finger.  <br />Sometimes saying something was dashed off with one's little finger is a compliment, as if to say the writing is so good it seems  effortless.  And this is true of this novel.  If you are after good prose,  this novel is for you.    <br />But, sometimes saying that something was  dashed off with one's little finger is a put-down, as if to say the author  didn't seem to take enough time constructing the novel.  At 193 pages, this  is also true of this novel.  Perhaps, I'm guilty of judging what this novel  could have been rather than what it is, but given the potential with which  it began, the novel is disappointing.    <br />So this gets a three star  rating.  It's wonderfully written but lacks length and development.  Also,  the ending is kinda silly.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R2FZ86GHE1WFB	067973385X	227363368	Exile and the Kingdom	Books	5	17	21	N	N	The Renegade	To understand the spiritual struggle demonstrated in &quot;The Renegade&quot; we must separate the narrator from the narration -- because the narrator is mad, driven so through torture dealt by the very natives he hoped to convert.  This is important because the narrator wished to honor  God.  He believed the best way to witness was to endure suffering.  <br />But  he fails miserably; his torture is unbearable. Ultimately, the narrator  concludes, &quot;I had been misled, truth is square, heavy, thick, it does  not admit distinctions, good is an idle dream, an intention constantly  postponed and pursued with exhausting effort, a limit never reached, its  reign is impossible&quot; (59). <br />The moral of the narration seems to be  that no excuse justifies the narrator's suffering.  If God himself is  unfair, the world makes no ultimate sense.  And this cannot be because it  violates the promise made in Genesis.  Silence, symbolized by the  narrator's severed tongue, seems an appropriate response to this God.   <br />&quot;The Renegade&quot; suggest that we are not made in God's image,  but rather that we are instead fashioned after Tantalus:  the thing we most  desire dances forever before our eyes, yet forever beyond our grasp.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R250Z3XX09VBXF	1551112450	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (Broadview Literary Texts)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Narrative Technique	Stevenson created Utterson to narrate the story.  But large sections of it are composed of Lanyon's letter to Utterson and Henry Jekyll's diary.  The advantage of this is that it allows Stevenson to prolong the readers' suspense.  In a way, Utterson, Enfield, and, for a time, Lanyon, are in the  same position as the readers:  observers trying to understand the mystery  surrounding Henry Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.  <br />Stevenson allies readers with  Utterson and Enfield.  Then, after we learn Lanyon knows Jekyll's secret,  we, like Utterson, read his letter eagerly.  Lanyon's narrative reveals the  secret that Jekyll and Hyde are the same person.  But, because Lanyon is  also an observer, his narrative cannot tell us anything about Jekyll's  motive.  We need Jekyll's own account for that. <br />Thus, the narrative  method Stevenson chooses prolongs our suspense.  Gradually revealing  information about Jekyll just heightens our desire to know the full story.   By the time we get to Jekyll's story, we are at a fever pitch.  I doubt  Stevenson could have kept the pace of suspense had he used third-person  point of view, and he certainly wouldn't have been able to do it using  Jekyll as a first-person narrator.  The drive of Utterson's limited point  of view matches our own.    <br />Stevenson's reliance on a limited  first-person point of view also contributes to the story's theme.  Perhaps  Stevenson uses Utterson, Enfield, and our own ignorance of Jekyll's actions  as a metaphor for human ignorance generally.  In his narrative, Jekyll  repeatedly refers to his life as the result of one choice among many  choices he could have made.  He creates Hyde to experience life and the  other aspects of his personality denied by that choice.  Jekyll argues that  the choice he has made in selecting one life over another is discriminatory  and limiting.  It excludes other forms of knowledge and experience.   <br />Maybe Stevenson hoped to gain reader sympathy for Dr. Jekyll by  associating our ignorance and desire to understand the Jekyll/Hyde mystery  with Jekyll's desire to know more of the life he sacrificed to play the  role of a respected doctor.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R3W351ENZ39W87	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Blood of the Walsungs	The incestuous love between Siegmund and Sieglinde in Thomas Mann's &quot;The Blood of the Walsungs&quot; is based on a self-centered narcissism.  The twins love each other because each reminds the other of themselves:  &quot;They were very like each other, with the same slightly  drooping nose, the same full lips lying softly together, the same prominent  check-bones and black, bright eyes.  Likest of all were their long slim  hands, his no more masculine than hers . . .&quot;  Yet, their physical  resemblance is just one aspect of their similarity.<br />   Perhaps more  important is the ennui they both share, made worse by the luxury that  surrounds them ('Dinner clothes in the afternoon!' Sieglinde said, making a  face.  It isn't even human!').  Siegmund and Sieglinde suffer the woes of  wealthy children:  they have everything, yet that having everything become  hated because it reminds them of their own emptiness -- that they have yet  to achieve on their own.  Trying something, like Siegmund's painting, can  even be worse than doing nothing.  Because trying and failing only confirms  the dread that one doesn't deserve what one has.<br />   It's no wonder the  twins' inner fear and insecurity manifests as resentment, the desire for  revenge, and attraction to one's mirror image.  Resentment and revenge are  projections of inner hatred, and attraction to one's double perhaps  provides a desperate hope that each is not so bad since another is similar.   And who best to understand one's inner turmoil but another who is  virtually the same?  <br />It is also not surprising the twins consummate  their attraction after the opera.  After all, what's more dramatic, heroic,  and conducive to the surrendering of one's passion than Wagnarian opera?   In thunder and storm anything goes, and perhaps all is forgiven.  I'm  surprised they didn't go at it right there in the opera box.  But, such an  atmosphere surely gave artistic backdrop to each's depressive  self-loathing.In that arena, each could cease being themself and become  heroic.  How easy it must have been to ride that feeling all the way to the  bedroom.  And, illicit passion now gives each meaning.  An affair is so  much more than an affair; it's drama in which one is the central figure,  just like the opera.  Because of the resentment each had for Beckerath,  they now too have a perfect foil, a villain in whom they can portray to  each other all the vile characteristics Hunding possesses.  In it's own  sick way it all makes sense.<br />I wonder then, does each of us carry a  little of that in the person we carry the torch for?  Are we attracted to  certain persons because they remind us of ourselves?  Or who we wish to be?   Or who we hope they will help us become?  Or who we hope they see us as?   Is love really that narcissistic or self-aggrandizing?  Anybody else  tempted to sleep with their brother or sister after a good opera?	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R2NBPZ34K4CT32	1564586154	331840260	Sister Wendy's Story of Painting	Books	1	70	164	N	N	The Danger of Self-Teaching	&quot;Sister Wendy&quot; as she is known throughout the world for her series of PBS broadcasts about art, or the fifteen books she has written, describes herself as a self-educated &quot;art nun.&quot;  Sister Wendy began her crusade to increase appreciation for the visual arts by &quot;reading everything she could get her hands on about art.&quot;   Unfortunately, despite her popular success, Sister Wendy is an example of  the danger of self-education:  Sister Wendy knows nothing about  art.<br />Before I am accused of being too harsh, or for beating up on a nice,  old lady (and a nun at that), let me state that, in attempting to bring art  appreciation to the public, there is nothing more noble than what Sister  Wendy is doing.  In my opinion, it is truly God's work.  <br />   What I  question is the kind of appreciation she brings.  The following reviews  describe that appreciation:  &quot;In the end, Sister Wendy doesn't set out  to tell us which paintings are good and which are bad,.............. &quot;   (amazon.com's review of Sister Wendy's Grand Tour:   Discovering Europe's Great Art)  <br />&quot;Let the aesthetes, ........ prattle on about color, technique, or social context; ............... public just wants to know what the picture says. . . .&quot;  (Booklist review of The Story of Painting) <br />These reviews are more than  just symptoms of cultural dumming-down.  The anti-intellectualism they  represent follows in the tradition of Martin Luther, who argued that no man  requires an intermediary before God.  Perhaps no man needs an intermediary  to understand God, but art is another matter.<br />Sister Wendy's methodology  is to tell stories about paintings.  That is, she tells stories about the  content of paintings.  Although, according to one reviewer this is  &quot;art appreciation at its highest,&quot; there is more to art than  content.  If content was the only important issue in art, there would be no  need for various artistic mediums.  Afterall, photography is just as good,  if not quite a bit better, at factual representation than painting.  Or,  for example, if the idea content of fiction was the only reason for reading  literature, there would be no reason to read literature.  Non-fiction  essays or histories would do just as well.  Indeed, it requires little or  no training to move from the unique, intrinsic character of a work itself  to the ideas or facts with which the work is concerned.  But, no one, aside  from perhaps Sister Wendy and her ilk, looks at art, listens to music, or  reads literature simply for content, for content alone can do nothing to  reveal the sources of pleasure that a particular work affords.<br />Instead,  aesthetes &quot;prattle on about color, technique, or social context&quot;  because those ingredients add to, not distract from, the experience of art.   I'm not suggesting that art cannot be enjoyed or appreciated by those who  know nothing of those things.  Nor am I saying that knowledge of those  things is required to enjoy or appreciate art.  Only that they help.  For  example, critics study color theory because color effects people's  emotions.  Understanding how an artist manipulates color to achieve a  certain effect helps one understand how art achieves its emotional impact.   <br />Indeed, study of artistic technique is vital for appreciation of the  arts because without it there is no vocabulary with which to discuss one's  experience of enjoyment (and without vocabulary, perhaps there is no  thought or enjoyment).  And, even if content held preeminent position in  the aesthetic hierarchy, techniques such as color, form and composition,  positive and negative space, or meter, structure, rhyme scheme help  explicate the content.<br />After all, what is aesthetic experience if not the  alert perception of art?  William James noted that the critical faculty  approached wisdom: The feeling for a good human job anywhere, the  admiration of the really admirable, the disesteem of what is cheap and  trashy and impermanent,--that is what we call the critical sense, the sense  for ideal values.  It is the better part of what men know as wisdom.<br />The  justification for Sister Wendy's methods given in the reviews I cite not  only fail to perform the due delivery of art to the mind but also obstructs  the process by which it might occur.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R1FDTT1D7S0M66	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Art of Interior Monologue	Success of novels written in the first-person depend heavily on whether the main character, generally the narrator, is not likable, but interesting.  In this case, Hornby's fictional creation, Rob, is both.   What makes him so is Hornby's use of the interior monologue. <br />Typically,  interior monologue is a device in which the narrator's telling reveals more  about himself than he is aware.  Perhaps we, as readers, are attracted to  this technique because it allows us to become almost voyeurs.  The intimacy  of knowing more about someone than he knows about himself is attractive; we  feel smart because we see things the narrator cannot.    Hornby, however,  turns this idea on its head.  Rob is so absorbed in self-analysis there's  no way we could ever know more about him than he knows about himself.  But,  perhaps this is what makes Rob seem so human, and so much like us.  Don't  we all in our heads carry on like he does?  <br />His narration of this  analysis appears, like the best writing, effortless.  And yet this  semblance of ease is double-edged:  it's easy to take for granted how good  it is, and the ideas flow so quickly that we can become so absorbed in the  telling that we forget to spend time thinking about the many provocative  ideas the novel contains.<br />Like all good literature, this novel deserves  to be read repeatedly.  Let the easy prose and plot carry you through a  first reading.  Then go back for the ideas and to appreciate how easy  Hornby makes it all seem.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	RT6UTM3XLENC	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Cost of Analysis	I haven't more enjoyed a novelist's craftsmanship in a long time.    <br />Ishiguro explores the same theme in all his work.  Speaking of it, he says:  &quot;What I'm interested in is not the actual fact that my characters have done things they later regret.  I'm interested in how they  come to terms with it.&quot;  Indeed, Ishiguro's characters define  themselves - and Ishiguro uses the first-person point of view -- through  their regrets.  But ironically, their definition is incomplete, and reveals  the incompleteness in their lives, because they are only dimly aware they  have regrets.  Ishiguro's plots are designed to aid and show the way in  which each character begins to understand and reconcile his false memory  and view of the world with the actual reality. <br />Ishiguro's use of the  first-person point of view emphasizes his character's incompleteness  because they are at once unreliable narrators engaging in interior  monologue.  This produces an interesting dissonance.  In each of Ishiguro's  novels the protagonists balance between their conscious intentions and the  ellipses and elisions, divisions and conflagrations of memory, which in  each character, subvert and obscure that intention.  <br />Ishiguro employs  the first-person narrative to illustrate the discrepancies between the  narrators' current account of events and conversation with those they had  remembered.  It is as if in describing past events that had for long been  forgotten, each narrator has finally gained enough distance to recount  differently.  The struggle to understand why the versions differ provides a  vehicle for self-analysis.  And that struggle is painful because it  threatens to expose the repression and denial upon which each character  carefully based his life.  For each character to acknowledge that denial  and repression means to admit his own emptiness or wickedness.  <br />Ishiguro's plots are simple.  They exist only to facilitate each  character's internal dialogue -- this acknowledgement and admission, the  tension contained by this struggle, of having the courage to face the  mistakes of one's life, is exquisite.  When Ishiguro is at his best, this  tension threatens to break the character apart.  Thus, while Ishiguro's  plots may be simple and cumulatively linear - in The Remains of the Day,  the farther Stevens travels from Darlington Hall, the closer he gets to  understanding his life there - each character doesn't go gently.  There is  a limit to how much anyone can stand to know of oneself.  And there is a  limit to how much anyone can take at once.  So Ishiguro's characters skirt  back and forth between insight and defensive recoil to long-held  repression.  <br />Even when the protagonists have revelations, they are not  complete.  At the end of the novel, the protagonists know and accept more  than they did, but their defensive mechanisms are still strong.  And this  makes them more realistic and believable - they are still fragile,  paradoxically much stronger than if they had a complete life change.     <br />I was at first puzzled that a Japanese writer would choose an English  butler as a subject for the kinds of psychological studies he conducts.   But the more I thought about it, the more alike Japanese culture and  manners and English domestic service appear.  One of the values Mr.  Stevens's based his life was his idea of dignity: suppressing one's  feelings for the greater good of being  a consummate professional, which is  very Japanese.  The most poignant scenes in the novels occur when Stevens  suppresses feelings that we know shatter his psyche.  Part of Ishiguro's  skill is his ability to at once describe the power of Stevens's repression  while at the same time revealing how much it unconsciously or consciously  costs him.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R1I43A4CINUDA2	0393964582	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	3	13	25	N	N	A Hard Sell	Despite many strengths, Frankenstein has fatal flaws.  Coleridge wrote that readers must approach a novel with &quot;a willing suspension of disbelief,&quot; a willingness in turn nurtured by the novelist.  Such suspension is required of readers because they must understand that a  novelist cannot represent everything.  Part of the novelist's art lies in  the simulation of reality through selective withholding and revealing of  various information.  Conversely, novelists lose readers when they ask them  to suspend disbelief too often, or to accept details or events that just do  not logically seem to make sense.  Such is the case of Mary Shelley and her  creation, Victor Frankenstein.<br />Unlike its portrayal in the movies, which  involves an assistant (Igor), various trips to the cemetery for body parts,  and a lightning-filled climax in a laboratory, creation of Frankenstein's  monster is anti-climactic.  Shelley dispatches the entire incident in about  three paragraphs.  Just as quickly, Frankenstein is repulsed by his  creation.  The creature opens his eyes, Frankenstein sees its ugliness, and  flees - all in the space of two or three sentences.  Thus begins a slippery  slope of disbelief.<br />Readers are expected to believe that the creature  could evolve into a perfect example of cultured, Enlightened, rational  thinking simply by observing a simple family and reading a handful of  books.  The monster's inner being is too perfect.  It is inconceivable that  his rhetoric, designed to make the reader sympathetic, cannot also appeal  to Frankenstein.  And Frankenstein himself is too blind.  Once he is  finally rebuked, the monster vows to avenge himself upon Frankenstein.  He  systematically murders members of Frankenstein's family and friends.  The  entire object of the murders is to make Frankenstein suffer as the monster  has suffered.  Thus, it is impossible that when the monster promises to be  with Frankenstein on his wedding night, that Frankenstein takes extreme  measures to protect himself while not even for a moment looking to his  wife's safety.  It's simply too much to believe.kes extreme  measures to protect himself while not even for a moment looking to his  wife's safety.  It's simply too much to believe.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R3979R9RBFGLKP	0521477352	733825607	The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature (Canto)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Lesson in Good Teaching	The title sounds like something for the specialist in Medieval literature, doesn't it?  Don't be put off by that or by the subject matter.  There are a number of reasons to read this book.  <br />Here is Lewis the common  teacher, not the religious writer.  You will find no polemic here.  But,  paradoxically, Lewis may be more persuasive and display more passion when  he is neither trying to persuade nor be passionate.  This book originated  in a series of lectures, and it shows.  There is love for both subject and  reader on every page.  Lewis writes simply and beautifully, so those of you  interested in fine prose will find much here.  <br />Perhaps the most  interesting aspect of the book is the comparison Lewis draws between  ancient and Medieval thought and the modern.  Sometimes these comparisons  are direct, but more often they are subtle, implicit.  But, by continually  pairing the two worldviews, whether directly or not, Lewis leads us, like  the master teacher he was, to reflect on our own way of thinking. <br />For  example, Lewis highlights good and bad aspects of Medieval writing.  For  one, Medieval writing revels in detail.  This can be rich or boring,  depending.  But, the reason for such detail, Lewis suggests, is that  Medieval writers were contemplating a world they loved and felt part of.   Thus, to a lover, details about one's beloved are never overdone.  In  contrast, most of us feel somewhat alienated in today's society, don't we?   And, isn't this reflected in contemporary novels?  <br />Lewis also suggests  that Medieval writers copied earlier writers.  Early writings are, like  Cathedrals, products of many craftsmen.  The need to be original or  creative was subsumed by humility.  Medieval writers did not want focus,  like so many of today's artists, on themselves.  Instead, they wanted to  direct attention to contemplation of the figures and subjects of their  writing.  Pride in craft may have been present, but is was subordinate to  loveof subject.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R1ORXFFJZOJE6X	0449910423	764264972	Classical Music: The 50 Greatest Composers and Their 1,000 Greatest Works	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Witty and Well Written	One of the best things in the book occurs before the author really gets going with the list.  In the introduction, he describes how he complied the list.   And it's great fun.  Making value judgements seem an almost endangered species these days.  Instead, here the author talks about his  largely self-educative experience with classical music - from knowing  nothing to becoming competent enough to write this witty book.  Thus, if  you are beginning a similarly self-taught journey into the intimidating and  often confusing world of classical music, this book is a godsend.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R25GTH7NQIDR5P	0393964582	246013259	Frankenstein	Books	2	34	48	N	N	Shame on Norton	Traditionally, Norton Critical Editions reprint the best historical and contemporary criticism for their respective novels.  But, it seems as though Norton has succumbed to the critical tide of multiculturalism and &quot;studies&quot; departments.  Nowhere in this edition are essays  attempting to provide readers with greater appreciation for the novel.   Missing, too, are essays explicating traditional aesthetic aspects of novel  construction, such as characterization, structure, etc.  <br />Instead,  readers are presented standard multicultural fair:  &quot;Frankenstein and  a Critique of Imperialism&quot;; &quot;Women in Frankenstein&quot;;  &quot;Mary Shelley's Monstrous Eve&quot;; &quot;Female Gothic: The  Monster's Mother&quot;; and psychobabble - &quot;My Monster/My Self.&quot;   Funny, my reading missed that Frankenstein's monster had a mother.  But,  surely I must have read from a culturally-conditioned male, imperialist  perspective.  (By the way--and I am not making this up--one essay,  &quot;Coming Unstrung: Women, Men, Narrative, and Principles of  Pleasure&quot; begins with this insightful jewel:  &quot;I would like to  begin with the proposition that the female orgasm is unnecessary.&quot;)     <br />As one essay notes: &quot;There seems to be no critical consensus on  Frankenstein.  Various critical readings seldom take the time to read, let  alone challenge, each other.  They simply seem to keep adding one more  perspective to the pile.  Indeed, to them, interpreting Frankenstein is not  a zero-sum game, in which each new hypothesis requires falsifying an old  one.&quot;  <br />To take one example, consider Ellen Moers's &quot;Female  Gothic: The Monster's Mother.&quot;  According to Moers, the critical scene  occurs when Frankenstein first perceives his filthy creature, &quot;the  hideous corpse which he had looked upon as the cradle of life.&quot;  The  language describes a stillbirth, and, to Moers, this is its strength:   Shelley draws upon herown experiences of the death of her own infants.   The problem is that this interpretation can not be tested from evidence in  the novel.  &quot;If one objected that Victor Frankenstein is not a woman,  that he does not give birth, that the creature is alive not dead and is not  an infant but full grown, and that the horror arises precisely from the  difference between this delivery and all others, Moers might reply that  such literalmindedness misses the point.&quot;	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R2GO63LPJL4S94	0156212501	350524906	The Complete Shorter Fiction of Virginia Woolf: Second Edition	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Lady in the Looking Glass	My favorite story in this collection is &quot;The Lady in the Lookinglass.&quot; This story contains a powerful image:  the yearning to completely comprehend another person.  Such longing, as the narrator distinguishes, is not desire for &quot;dinners and visits and polite  conversations,&quot; nor &quot;things she talked about at dinner,&quot; but  something deeper, &quot;her profounder state of being that one wanted to  catch and turn to words.&quot;  <br />On one hand, Isabella represents a  synecdoche.  If the narrator understands her deeply enough, he could  &quot;know everything there was to be known about Isabella,&quot; but also  life, and perhaps all persons as well.  <br />On the other hand, perhaps  Isabella objectifies the inability of one person to scale walls of privacy  and anonymity another erects to protect herself from intimacy.  <br />Our  sympathy straddles that wall, perhaps lying first with Isabella who veils  herself, then with the narrator who longs to know her.  We aren't shown why  Isabella has become the trembling convolvulus.  But no one's face should  reflect &quot;masklike indifference.&quot;  The phrase is not congruous --  the need to mask is anything but indifferent.  And can't we concede tragedy  to anyone who, after 50-60 years, remains a person for whom another can  claim, &quot;The comparison showed how very little, after all these years,  one knew about her; for it is impossible that any woman of flesh and blood  of fifty-five or sixty should be really a wreath or a tendril&quot;?  This  is a heartbreaking image.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R15XPYVAPI8WYC	0192835874	434066508	Catullus: The Complete Poems (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	13	27	N	N	Interior Monologue	Perhaps the best thing about Catullus's poetry is that in them he talks to himself.  <br />Take for example poem number eight. The first two lines begin with Catullus reproaching himself for still loving-we suppose-Lesbia.  But then he spends the next six lines, a whole third of the poem, reminding  himself of the pleasurable days when they were still lovers.  It is almost  as if, in reproaching himself for not putting Lesbia behind him and  forgetting her, Catullus actually reminds himself of the good aspects her  love.  Thus, the reproach has the opposite affect of its intent, which to  get himself to forget Lsebia.  But, the ease in which he falls into  reminiscence tells us about the speaker.  It illustrates why he must  reproach himself.  <br />In line nine, Catullus catches himself and again  reproaches himself:  &quot;Now she no longer wishes; you mustn't want  it.&quot;  This reproach comes almost as if Catullus realizes what he has  done-fallen into the habit of dwelling on her-and gets mad at himself.  He  obviously still hurts, but Catullus turns this feeling around-in a classic  Freudian reaction formation-and addresses the next lines to Lesbia:   &quot;Goodbye now, Lady.  Catullus' heart is hardened / he will not look to  you or call against your wishes.&quot;  As if telling her will make it so.    <br />The next lines are typical angry lover's rhetoric, warning her that  she'll regret her decision to leave him.  Following in that same spirit,  Catullus uses the next three lines to remind Lesbia what she will miss.   But, in an interesting twist, emphasized by the italicized word  &quot;you,&quot; Catullus addresses the last line of the poem to himself:  &quot;But you, Catullus!  You must hold out now, firmly!&quot;  What has  Catullus done?  Is it possible that, in warning Lesbia of the things she  will miss, Catullus has actually once again reminded himself of the things  he will miss? <br />  We are left wondering whether Catullus has actually not  made himself feel worse.  And this is what makes this a good poem.  There  is a payoff for taking time reading this poem:  seeing how the speaker's  overt words contribute, and lead to, more feelings and further reaction.   Thus, although the surface poem seems like another example of an angry  lover's protestation, the poem underneath is a crafty interior monologue.   The poet Catullus gives us a glimpse that perhaps we know more of  lover-Catullus's feelings and can read his thinking better than he can.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R153CA7W6W78CP	0520074599	565308008	To the Rescue of Art: Twenty-Six Essays	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Aesthetics of Art	With this essays in this book, Arnheim discusses art as art, or rather what makes art.  One of his theses is that much of the blame for the current decline of art and of art and literary criticism lies with the fin de siecle mood of the general culture, but much of it lies with those who  are supposed to be critics. <br />Many critics, and unfortunately teachers,  subscribe to the belief that the criteria by which a work of art deserves  to be held in aesthetic and social esteem no longer exist.  Thus, one can  hardly blame people for arguing that art is anything they chooses to call  it if the very people who are supposed to supply the standards by which to  judge what is and is not art assert that any kind of objective criteria no  longer exist.  <br />On the other hand, artists are always exploring and  innovating.  But exactly for this reason, critics should discuss what makes  art art.  It is too easy to indulge in the easy pleasures of relativism  just as it is too easy to answer with smug, superior expressions when  people ask what is meant by art. <br />  The solution to rescuing the arts  consists in discrimination, once the penultimate critical faculty, in  pointing out the common core of sensory expression in all its  manifestations-what William James calls the &quot;sifting of human  creations.&quot;  What critics need to do is revive and explore the  principles of which all productive functioning of the arts is based.  As  Arnheim states:  &quot;If art is indispensable as a psychological, and  possibly a biological, requirement of existence, it must be assumed to grow  from the very depths of our being.  And if so, these roots must be  traceable.  Therefore, critics must be heralds of the principles they are  retrieving.&quot;  <br />But, do not be put off by the political nature of  this review.  Arnheim is not a polemicist.  The majority of the book is  devoted to what he states critics need do:  discuss art as art, not art as  politics.  And he doesthat very well.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	RX8R8I8537Z8T	0874772060	906842881	The Outsider	Books	5	145	148	N	N	All-Time Favorite Book	For over 15 years this has been my favorite book.  Wilson explicates a thesis - that much of great Western Literature is written by and concerns men who see and feel more deeply than their contemporaries.  Perhaps one might regard them as more sensitive.  At any rate, such men are  alienated-hence outsiders.  Such figures include:  Hermann Hesse, Van Gogh,  Hemmingway, Lawrence of Arabia, H.G. Wells, Albert Camus, Vaslav Nijinsky,  Sartre, Tolstoy, and others.  <br /> This book can be used in many ways:  as a  primer to existential philosophy, an introduction to religious mysticism,  or as an introduction to the work and thoughts some of the greatest artists  and writers of the 19th and 20th centuries.  <br />Understanding of this book  is helped by familiarity with the works and artists Wilson discusses - but  it's not necessary.  Wilson's discussion of each work/artists is complete  enough even without prior exposure.  And, indeed, it would be hard to have  exposure to all he includes.  In a way that, too, is a plus.  I used this  book as a core curriculum for nearly everything I've studied.  I read what  Wilson had to say, and if I was interested, I'd then explore those artists  myself.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R1CF9MGILIOK6Z	1571741119	5629120	The Books in My Life	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Autobiography Through Bibliography	This is an introduction to the books that most shaped Colin Wilson's ideas.  And it is somewhat surprising - not every book on this list is an &quot;outsider&quot; book.  One of the interesting things about this book is that it is autobiography through bibliography.  Wilson chronologically  traces his personal development and the development of his thought through  the books that most influenced him - from his earliest experience with  reading to the present.  And some of the choices-like Edgar Rice Burroughs  and Arthur Conan Doyle--are surprising. <br />Also interesting is Wilson's  defense of his various tastes.  It's a rare treat when someone shares their  person aesthetic preferences, and Wilson, as a lifetime reader, does this  well.  For one example, he describes how his former love for G.B. Shaw's  plays faded as he got older.  <br />For fans of Wilson, this is a welcome  insight to how his ideas developed.	2000-05-03
US	50907577	R2GSZLAPUXBW3L	0764550098	201795829	Classical Music For Dummies	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Great book, but please no more jokes	As an introductory primer to classical music, this book is ideal. Perhaps the best things in the book are the CD sampler it contains and the chapter that provides a second-by-second analysis of what you are hearing.  For me,  this was the best way to learn how to listen to classical music. <br />Like  other books in the &quot;Dummies&quot; series, this is filled with jokes.  They became tedious after about three pages and detract from the otherwise  valuable information presented.	2000-01-14
