US	50918292	R37170AXSCSE6H	0711917736	656228340	Siouxsie & the Banshees: Entranced Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spellbound And Entranced	This 96 page biography of Siouxsie & The Banshees features many fantastic full page photos of Siouxsie Sioux and a discography as an appendix. Published in 1989, it only covers the period from their punk beginnings to the 1988 album Peepshow.	2005-10-07
US	50918292	R167APHIPN8D1O	0825671671	354478985	Blank Generation Revisited: The Early Days of Punk Rock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Picture This	I bought this book years ago but only just now read it cover to cover. It allowed me to successfully recapture the inspiration I originally felt when reading about CBGB punk rock. Over the years I've become bored with the subject and needed a fresh perspective to rekindle my interest. The book also made me realize that I don't have many albums by NYC punk bands so I've placed a large order for all the debut albums I could not afford as a teenager. Many of these albums will still be new to me.	2005-10-07
US	50918292	R2LQM33OYK3Z4D	1570626731	188812043	Eternal Drama: The Inner Meaning of Greek Mythology	Books	5	4	12	N	N	The Psychology of Ancient Greece	In addition to the Greek myths and heroes, the author analyzes the Trojan War, Greek drama (Oedipus), oracles, Dionysus, Orphism, and the Eleusinian Mysteries. Unfortunately, he does not always establish the psychological truth of his interpretations which therefore lack authority. Jungian psychology claims that our dreams are a form of personal mythology in which our private concerns are made into myth. I find this a credible arguement because my dreams frequently contain mythological content, usually a monster that I slay.	2005-10-02
US	50918292	R16YS6WUP56C78	0791447820	325579539	Have You Been to Delphi?: Tales of the Ancient Oracle for Modern Minds (Suny Series in Western Esoteric Traditions)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The Delphi Of The Mind	Lipsey's book gathers together tales and anecdotes of the people who consulted the Oracle at Delphi.  He attempts to draw spiritual wisdom from these tales for modern man. His approach is more philosophical than historical or scholarly which makes for a more interesting read than \\"Classical Athens And The Delphic Oracle\\" by Hugh Bowden. Throughout the book he makes a distinction between the Delphi of the mind and the Delphi of fact. Every tale is followed by the author's illuminating commentary. <br /> <br />The book delves into such matters as the ambiguity of the oracle's answers. When an answer was particularly cryptic it would be the responsibility of the inquirer to \\"complete the oracle\\" by reflecting upon its message and coming to the correct interpretation. There were attempts to bribe the oracle which could lead to a cruel fate. A chapter is devoted to the trial of Socrates who invoked Delphi in his defense. Socrates claimed his philosophical quest to humiliate the wise was a pious attempt to determine the meaning of a flattering message from Delphi. The oracle was asked if there was anyone wiser than Socrates and the priestess replied that there was no one. Other philosophers debated the nature of the prophetic faculty or expressed doubts. An interview with the son of the Tibetan State Oracle provides a contemporary example.  <br />  <br />The author favors the assumption that the Pythia entered into a trance to serve as a medium or channel for the god Apollo. Other theories are that the priestess used some sort of psychoactive substance but the legends and myths only mention chewing laurel leaves or drinking spring water. Another theory is that she sat over a cave in a tripod and the vapors from this opening inspired her divine frenzy. There is considerable debate over whether she gave her response in poetry or prose which was then rendered as poetry by the temple poets. <br /> <br />A trance is probably experienced more often than is thought. Most peoplewill not claim to have ever experienced a trance because they have been given exaggerated descriptions that do not match their experience. And too many fanciful claims have been made for states of trance which creates more skepticism than there should be. However, a trance state does bring the mind more closely in contact the spiritual side of human nature. And in a state of trance the mind is capable of greater intuitive comprehension. Although this will not result in prophesies direct from the all knowing gods, it may lead to more intuitive guesses about the course of events than is otherwise possible. Finally, it seems appropriate that the oracles are given in riddles because it is better to express intuitive insights poetically and speak to the soul than to use the language of concrete thought and merely speak to the mind.	2005-09-12
US	50918292	R2MH3IOVNYRYB0	0809136678	145234652	Jung and Shamanism in Dialogue: Retrieving the Soul/Retrieving the Sacred (Jung and Spirituality)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	The Psychology Of The Sacred	This book serves as a good introduction to Jungian psychology as it pertains to shamanism and direct religious experience of the sacred. It also explores how shamanism may be useful in healing dissociative identity disorder (multiple personality). <br /> <br />My primary interest is in visionary experiences and waking dreams. I've mainly tried to explore the subject in terms of poetic reverie or inspiration but modern poetry does not value inspiration and poets do not write about their reveries anymore. Shamanism appears to be the main subculture that is actively interested in visionary experiences. Most urban shamans discover the subject through their use of and interest in psychedelics which can be defended on religious grounds as the sacraments of shamanism. <br /> <br />The book could have done a better job of making the connection between ayahuasca visions and the collective unconscious but it placed little emphasis on entheogens. Instead it focused on trance states, possession and exorcism, soul loss and retrieval, archetypes, and the sacred. The author assumes that the shaman is the master of many psychological states and conditions and considers modern health professionals to be magicians by virtue of their valuable knowledge and skill as healers. I don't object to this emphasis because I do believe a genuine shaman should have a talent for exploring the unknown dimensions of the mind. Urban shamans have become snobbish drug abusers who are reluctant to acknowledge natural talent and insist that psychedelics are the only means to shamanic journeying. There is ample evidence that this attitude is a tragic mistake because psychedelics give you too little control over the experience. The author makes some excellent points on the need to be in full control: <br /> <br />pg 27, \\"Even shamans who use hallucinogenic substances for the purpose of evoking ecstatic states, typically use low enough doses so as to maintain control of their trance depth.\\"	2005-09-03
US	50918292	R34STQ8RK55H5T	0521530814	345056180	Classical Athens and the Delphic Oracle: Divination and Democracy	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	Know Thy History	Bowden does not consider the psychological significance of the Delphic Oracle and he does not attempt to relate divination to dream interpretation, psychoanalysis, or New Age beliefs and fancies. His interest is strictly historical although he does give more consideration to the Athenians' religious beliefs than other classicists. He argues that the Greeks only consulted the oracle on matters to which human judgement cannot provide an answer. Therefore divination did not invalidate political decisions made democratically by the citizens of Athens, but it was consulted for all religious decisions. <br /> <br />Although Bowden does not discuss contemporary parallels, he implies that the Delphic Oracle is relevant to modern times because certain Western leaders make their decisions to go to war based upon a higher authority rather than the available intelligence. In other words, this book debates the relationship between fundamentalists and democracy. <br /> <br />The book has some black and white photos of the archaeological site, maps of the region, and photos of Athenian vases depicting the Delphic Oracle.	2005-08-20
US	50918292	R17XQEL0W3MSH1	087626500X	156009260	The lively image: 4 myths in literature	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Jung Lit Course In Four Lessons	\\"The Lively Image: 4 Myths In Literature\\" by Richard E. Hughes explores four myths from a Jungian perspective; the Narcissus myth, the Dionysos myth, the Orpheus myth, and the Christ myth. He puts a positive spin on narcissism: <br /> <br />pg 16 \\"Narcissus is not simply infantile regressor. He is time-traveller and unity-seeker, drawn to the womb-pool not as the end of his quest but as the vehicle of his travel and his search.\\" <br /> <br />This comes close to how I view the Narcissus myth but I prefer to imagine Narcissus looking within himself and becoming entranced by the unknown. Self love based on the psyche and not the ego. <br /> <br />pg 112 \\"Orpheus has been recognized as the emblem of the creative artist, and the artist is the interiorized hero. The artist trods on inner geography and brings back images of what he has found there, having liberated something from the prison of the unknown. The symbol incarnates the quest, the discovery, and the return.\\" <br /> <br />I like the idea that the artist liberates something from the prison of the unknown. I've always considered the artist's purpose to be to manifest the sacred and make it a presence in this world. However I've discovered that it is almost impossible to invest anything with the significance of a personal myth and expect its numinous quality to communicate itself to others. <br /> <br />pg 54 \\"Dionysus. To the rational and conscious mind the collective unconscious is incredible, frightening; it is radical, capable of altering the more staid world of consciousness, so much so that consciousness struggles in a regular panic against being swallowed up in the primitivity and unconsciousness of sheer instinctuality.\\" <br /> <br />This interpretation probably reflects the radicalism of the 1960s when LSD was liberating the unconscious to threaten the conservative and repressive society with reforms and change. Even psychosis was seen in a positive light in the 1960s. Now it is thoroughly vilified. The collective unconscious appears to be properly cowed today, secure in a straight jacket.	2005-08-06
US	50918292	RJ8QDYT02BU9B	0060905891	16924966	Chapters in a Mythology: The Poetry of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The shaman Sylvia Plath	\\"Chapters In A Mythology\\" reveals that Sylvia Plath was more interested in the psyche than her biographers suggest. Sylvia's interest in psychology led her to read the work of Carl Jung and her husband Ted Hughes introduced her to the book \\"The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar Of Poetic Myth\\" by Robert Graves which is a study of the mythological and psychological sources of poetry in paganism.<br /><br />Ted Hughes suggests that Sylvia possessed the visionary faculty of a shaman, \\"In her poetry...she had free and controlled access to depths formerly reserved to the primitive ecstatic priests, shamans, and Holy men..\\" Judith Kroll explains Sylvia's fascination for the paintings of Giorgio de Chirico in the following terms, \\"For Sylvia Plath, the typical 'metaphysical' landscape provided a visual setting for the fixed, super-real, ominous, inaccessible drama of the psyche.\\" She further praises Sylvia's \\"openness to contact with the unconscious are developed to an extraordinary degree.\\" Kroll sees Sylvia's references to witches and Greek mythology as examples of paganism. For example, she argues that Sylvia viewed her nervous breakdown as a shaman's dismemberment and rebirth through ritual death of the psyche and recovery, \\"The dispersed 'stones' of the speaker's shattered self are gathered together and reconstructed, reenacting the myths of Dionysus (who is alluded to in 'Maenad'), Osiris, and other gods who undergo dismemberment and resurrection.\\"<br /><br />Kroll reveals that Sylvia Plath had read William James' book \\"Varieties of Religious Experience\\", \\"The Ten Principal Upanishads\\" by William Butler Yeats, \\"The Tibetan Book Of The Dead\\", and possibly some books on Zen Buddhism. Sylvia was interested in states of consciousness in which the mundane self is felt to die and a higher and larger self recovered. Therefore she was not morbidly interested in physical death but rather in ego death which permits a rebirth as a mystic in life. Although there is considerable evidence that Sylvia  experienced brief moments of ecstasy such as may occur during the manic phase of a manic depressive illness, it seems unlikely that she reached the spiritual attainment of enlightenment or mystical union with the universe or God because such mystical experiences would have given her a reason to live.rable evidence that Sylvia  experienced brief moments of ecstasy such as may occur during the manic phase of a manic depressive illness, it seems unlikely that she reached the spiritual attainment of enlightenment or mystical union with the universe or God because such mystical experiences would have given her a reason to live.	2005-07-24
US	50918292	R2MP8BH3XHUFRI	0061278157	546916596	A closer look at Ariel: a memory of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Smith College Girl Memoir	This is a brief memoir by a girl who knew Sylvia Plath at Smith College. It describes some events that have been recounted in the numerous biographies which quote from this book. These events include the cucumber sandwich gluttony at Mrs. Prouty's, the trip to Cambridge to attend Harvard summer school, the affair with the biology professor met on the steps of the Widener Library, and the resulting hemorrhage.	2005-07-22
US	50918292	R3PZ1DN8UGJXEY	0812692004	225526611	Madness, Heresy, and the Rumor of Angels: The Revolt Against the Mental Health System	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Philosophy Of Biological Reductionism	This book brilliantly illustrates the ethical and moral dangers of biological reductionism. The mental health system has adopted a philosophy of biological reductionism. They see human beings as clockwork oranges. They consider the psyche to be an outdated myth. They don't consider psychotherapy to be a valid treatment option for any form of emotional distress. They don't even subscribe to basic psychology anymore. The mental health system has reduced all forms of human behavior to brain chemistry and they define mental illness as a chemical imbalance in the brain which MUST be treated with drug therapy. The mental health system has become a mindless, soulless menace to humanity. Mindless because they are anti-intellectual and soulless because they have no respect for spirituality.<br /><br />I was intrigued by a vague hint of \\"intimations of a spiritual reality\\" mentioned in the blurb but the book does not elaborate on that topic.<br /><br />I would also recommend the play \\"Equus\\" by Peter Shaffer, a now forgotten critique of psychiatry and the threat it poses to spirituality and our humanity.	2005-06-08
US	50918292	R7T8TTK6IPUHU	0877739447	896821214	Zen Antics	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Lost In Translation	I agree with the other reviewer in seeing this book as a very poor translation of Zen stories. I doubt that any Zen story's opening line should be translated as \\"Once upon a time there was a...\\". I also very much doubt that a Japanese woman would insult an old man like this, \\"What do you know, baldy?\\". However, it does not seem as though this is just an attempt to make the stories understandable to a Western sensibility. Thomas Cleary does not seem to have any feel for the deeper meanings in these Zen stories and many of his translations are simply dull and flatly state the obviousness.	2005-03-02
US	50918292	R3AV528YZWMOQ5	0517556146	564691361	Center of the Cyclone P	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Lost In Inner Space	Dr. John Lilly describes his experiences with LSD, sensory deprivation tanks, mysticism, and yoga in this book. You learn a few interesting biographical facts; a suicide attempt brought on by LSD and the fact that Dr. Lilly gave LSD to dolphins! Unfortunately his altered states of consciousness aren't that fascinating because he does not describe them in any great detail. He uses an unfamiliar rating scale for altered states of consciousness. Computers must have been more exotic in the 1970s because his analogy of biocomputers and metaprogramming isn't very meaningful now that personal computers are commonplace and less mystifying. Dr. Lilly seems to have been more interested in transcendental experiences than visionary experiences which may explain his failure to really expose the alternate reality of the psyche.	2005-02-02
US	50918292	RLZDUW3I5WMLX	B0007HIYW2	654453222	The Greek god affair (Mod Squad)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Groovy Book	When is the TV series The Mod Squad going to be released on DVD? The Mod Squad is a great show for hippie nostalgia although I regard the hippies as being pre-history, before my time. This is the first of the Mod Squad book tie-ins. The story involves a California cult which is abducting runaways for use in Satanic sex  orgies. Pete, Julie, and Linc infiltrate the cult which is based on Greek mythology. There are many cultural references to the hippie scene in the late 1960s.	2005-02-02
US	50918292	R2KUY2JFFLAUZY	1579510590	71496802	The Quiet Center: Isolation and Spirit	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	Altered States Of Perception	A great overview of Dr. John C. Lilly's work and ideas. The book includes practical advice on how to create your own void space, an environment isolated from sensations, without investing a lot of money in a floatation tank. However, I don't think it is really necessary to isolate oneself from sensation in order to find one's inmost self. This can be done in sensation rich environments where there is something to experience on all levels. But sensory deprivation in a floatation tank is probably a good way to exerience an altered state of perception without the use of psychoactive drugs or a lifetime of meditation practice. Dr. Lilly also had interesting ideas about how to liberate ourselves from our belief systems in order to expand our mental horizons. It is amusing to find such \\"thinking outside the box\\" advice coming from someone who pioneered research into a sort of isolation box but that is precisely what the floatation tank experience is meant to be, sending the mind on a journey outside the tank. Unfortunately, this book has many annoying typos and gives the impression of being a self-published title by his surviving relatives.	2005-01-16
US	50918292	R3SQGBR76B0N1Z	1584200111	874077760	A Secret History of Consciousness	Books	5	26	33	N	Y	Exceptional Access To The Unconscious	I don't believe consciousness evolved but this book is a good overview of various theories as to how it could have evolved. I suspect that if you could experience another's mind, you would find significant differences in consciousness even within our present time. The mind of somebody else would seem like an alien world to you. Anyone who possesses exceptional access to their unconscious mind is aware of how alien and distorted its perception can be and this distortion of perception is even present, in a very subtle manner, during full consciousness. <br /> <br />The author does explore an interesting concept, duo-consciousness, the hypnagogic state between sleep and consciousness in which it is possible to dream while being partially awake. He even speculates about consciously induced hypnogogia, the first reference to this secret ability I've seen in print. But he does not go far enough in his speculation. Given exceptional access to the unconscious it is possible to enter the hypnagogic state at will. It is possible to awaken the unconscious into activity by consciously recalling dream imagery, even snatches of long forgotten dreams, and thereby bring it into a near conscious state to the point of experiencing irrational fears. More interesting, it is possible to acquire some of the imaginative capabilities of the dream state and create highly unexpected mental imagery as random, mild hallucinations which are nevertheless subject to some conscious direction towards specific images. This is day dreaming empowered with the faculty of true dreaming! Baudelaire once described this as the poet's gift to dream exceptionally well.  <br /> <br />While some occultists believe that exceptional access to the unconscious means peering into other dimensions, and gaining the faculty of the true dreamer would be real magic, there is little experiential evidence that supports such an interpretation. Rather it is the degree of the dissociative state that creates the sense of other dimensions or alien thoughts. The conscious mind cannot associate mental imagery from the unconscious with the self because it is too unfamiliar. However, long familiarity with the unconscious and its mental imagery can create a sense of familiarity which overcomes the dissociative state.	2005-01-13
US	50918292	R1K474U29UZ1FU	0394702999	920230643	The Joyous Cosmology: Adventures in the Chemistry of Consciousness	Books	5	6	12	N	Y	Zen and Spiritual Realities	I read Alan Watts' book \\"The Joyous Cosmology: Adventures In The Chemistry Of Consciousness\\" last night and later I entered my deepest meditative state. I realized that my spiritual reality is always characterized by desolation; mental imagery of desolate streets, empty rooms, deserted ruins, isolated landscapes, etc. My soul inhabits a desolate universe which lacks the desire to communicate itself because there can be no other. My spiritual reality is also unreal in that it encourages a complete acceptance of its mystifying, otherworldly character. It is a supernatural reverie that never becomes a dissociative state. I have always found it to be thus and I have consistently described it thusly.    However, this is not the spiritual reality described in \\"The Joyous Cosmology\\". What Alan Watts describes is a spiritual reality that is not unreal. Rather it is a spiritual reality that is a very intense awareness of physical reality fully present to consciousness. He also describes a wonderful sense of communion with his fellow psychonauts and this is definitely contrary to my sense of spiritual isolation.    Therefore I have come to the conclusion that I do not experience the definitive spiritual reality but rather my particular spiritual reality. In order to know the joyous cosmology I would need the assistance of an entheogen but even that might merely provide a confirmation of my spiritual reality because entheogens allow one's essential nature to be expressed. They do not provide a consistent experience to all users. They do not bring about the same realization for all users. For the same reason Zen may prove to be useless in the face of my spiritual reality. Zen may seem to point the finger elsewhere but its practices, concepts, precepts, koans, and community will merely lead me to my usual destination which I will assume is where the path was meant to lead me. Zen is not a dogmatic religion. It merely asks you to go beyond thought and experience for yourself theessential aspect of your true nature. Zen is slippery and does not even presume to know where its finger is pointing.    Please note that I am only making some observations. I am noncommittal on absolute truth. I do not judge my desolate unreality. I do not accuse it of being delusional. I do not judge the use of entheogens or Watts' joyous cosmology, although it clearly contradicts my inner experience. I do not judge Zen and its practices.	2005-01-01
US	50918292	R2P6F3S0MTFAY2	0971394237	478316857	Turn Off Your Mind: The Mystic Sixties and the Dark Side of the Age of Aquarius	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	The Stink Of The Occult	I've always had a very secretive interest in mysticism and visionary states of consciousness. I've also been a big fan of Blondie. So when I discovered that a former member of Blondie has written books on mysticism and altered states of consciousness I almost freaked. Unfortunately, I was very disappointed by this book. Gary Lachman does not appear to really know anything about mysticism. This entire book is written from the perspective of a serious occultist. Everything he writes about is related back to either G.I. Gurdjieff or Aleister Crowley or Charles Manson. It is a sustained misinterpretation of the spiritual reality, a sort of spiritual psychosis, completely lacking in real insight.     It is ironic that the author is familiar with the Theosophical Society but focuses on Helena Blavatsky instead of George Russell (aka A.E.) whose book \\"The Candle Of Vision: Inner Worlds Of The Imagination\\" shows an extraordinary understanding of miraculous states of consciousness which can make real magic happen in the subjective realm of the mind.    On the other hand, this book is a great reference tool for researching all the mystic and psychedelic influences of the sixties which probably have had a greater influence on you than you might care to acknowledge. It should also be noted that a mystical experience is always interpreted through the religious framework of the mystic's culture. Therefore Gary Lachman's perception of a mystical experience could be due to a bad 60's vibe!	2004-12-23
US	50918292	RQOQ0LE4ONXIT	0764542338	586822438	Asthma For Dummies	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Dust Mite's Favorite Read	This book was extremely helpful in answering my questions about a recurrence of asthma after being free of symptoms for many, many years. I learned that you never really outgrow asthma and a recurrence is not unusual. I thought the book focused too much on allergies and did not explain how humidity might effect asthma. My symptoms get worse on chilly nights after a day of rain so weather seems to be my asthma trigger. Also the book does not contain any information on asthma support groups and neglects to cover controversial theories about asthma. However, it does describe all the medications you might be prescribed and their possible side effects.	2004-08-13
US	50918292	R1AK5YF1E3XBBS	0720610427	557757663	The Enigma of Giorgio De Chirico	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Art And Metaphysics	This biography of Giorgio de Chirico reveals that the artist considered himself more of a metaphysical painter than a surrealist. I think this provides a clue to a more interesting perspective on his work, that his paintings should be viewed as explorations of philosophical mysteries rather than the haunting imagery of dreams. The author also frequently points out that Giorgio de Chirico's paintings bring the real and the unreal together. In a philosophical context, this is not the same as saying they represent the surreal. The only objection I have to this book is that she places too much emphasis on his relationship with women which seems a bit self-conscious.	2004-08-01
US	50918292	R3F298R7TZYWY0	0872861821	725019459	Poetry and Mysticism	Books	1	9	26	N	Y	Not A Peak Reading Experience	The author clearly does not know anything about mysticism except as an intellectual concept. He seems to think a holiday qualifies as a mystical experience and goes on and on about boredom and your &quot;personal best&quot;. None of the poets he chooses to write about are considered to be mystics. His essays are too literary and make somewhat eccentric but uninteresting arguments. This book induces the very boredom he is complaining about.	2004-07-23
US	50918292	R2IC83GL3X690T	0943914523	458600284	Song and its Fountains	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Vision's Power To Turn Your Gaze From The Absolute	I found this book to be one of the most significant books that I have ever read. &quot;Song And Its Fountains&quot; explores poetic inspiration and I am convinced that George Russell truly experienced the height of inspiration in a manner that closely matches my inner experiences. He describes many states of consciousness which I am familiar with, &quot;The faculty of dreaming while I was awake had then become active..&quot;. This makes it clear that AE was familiar with waking dreams and he goes on to describe this faculty very precisely, &quot;It is not true that we must fall asleep to dream. The dream consciousness may flood the waking, and that waking consciousness may have little more to do with the molding of the dream than the seer of dream in sleep has to do with the creation of images by which he is surrounded.&quot;<br />I also found it highly significant that George Russell did not have to meditate to achieve this heightened state of consciousness, &quot;I had found the genie in the innermost sometimes overcoming me by an enchantment of dream flooding the waking consciousness not merely when I was meditative, but when I was at work or walking in the streets or on country roads.&quot;<br />AE also describes how vision can idealize the world and give it a supernatural beauty, &quot;The words of the seer imply...transfiguring the things his eyes have seen and making of them a wonder-world of his own.&quot; Elsewhere he uses an expression which I particularly admire, &quot;So over the images we see a glamour is cast...&quot;.<br />However, his mention of peculiar emotional states in waking dreams came as a surprise to me. I am familiar with intense and unfamiliar emotions in dreams but not when fully conscious. AE describes a visitation occurring while not asleep, &quot;the dream, which was burdened with such intensities of emotion, when it departed left behind a slight lyric which could not hold or hardly hint at the love...&quot;. This is quite extraordinary and makes AE worthy of serious study.<br />George Russell was a serious student of Eastern religions and singled out the Upanishads for special consideration. From this, he got the idea that his visions may have been a distraction from the mystic way and that he was prevented from achieving the highest being. He humbly states, &quot;My farthest traveling inward was but a footstep.&quot; Towards the end of the book he strikes a note of despair and describes his vision as &quot;blossoms of illusion&quot;. As far as I am concerned, the glamour that vision can cast over the world is too powerful to be ignored. It may even have the power to turn your gaze from God, the Absolute, or what have you. A visionary is truly a distracted soul.ary and makes AE worthy of serious study.<br />George Russell was a serious student of Eastern religions and singled out the Upanishads for special consideration. From this, he got the idea that his visions may have been a distraction from the mystic way and that he was prevented from achieving the highest being. He humbly states, &quot;My farthest traveling inward was but a footstep.&quot; Towards the end of the book he strikes a note of despair and describes his vision as &quot;blossoms of illusion&quot;. As far as I am concerned, the glamour that vision can cast over the world is too powerful to be ignored. It may even have the power to turn your gaze from God, the Absolute, or what have you. A visionary is truly a distracted soul.	2004-07-06
US	50918292	R30HH8UUOTNDCY	0838711014	148095515	George Russell (The Irish writers series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intro To A Great Irish Visionary	This is a brief introduction to the work of the great Irish visionary, George Russell. It includes an interesting chapter on A.E. as a Theosophist. The authors were amazingly respectful towards George Russell's desire to be considered a contemplative and a visionary rather than a scholar and writer. There is a useful chronology which lists the important events in A.E.'s life and career. As the nearest contemporary visionary poet to our times, George Russell deserves more serious study than he receives and this little book is a good place to begin.	2004-07-03
US	50918292	R246DK5J11VBQC	0900675691	145290224	That Myriad-Minded Man: A Biography of G. W. Russell,"A.E." 1897-1935	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Irish Seer	I first heard of AE in Aldous Huxley's &quot;The Doors Of Perception&quot; which mentions his book &quot;The Candle Of Vision&quot;. This biography makes it very clear that George Russell was the Irish Blake, an equally visionary poet and painter. Apparently AE was fascinated with William Blake and very familiar with his work. It is unfortunate that AE's work is not as well known. I am convinced that he was a true visionary or a genius and his writings on his spirituality are the most rational examination of the visionary experience to be found. AE now joins Arthur Rimbaud and William Blake as one of the most important poets for me to study. <br />AE was a theosophist which led me to explore that occult society but even they are neglecting his genius. You won't find AE mentioned very prominently on their web sites. I hope to learn more about George Russell by reading up on William Butler Yeats but I suspect that his admirers have little to tell us about AE.	2004-06-27
US	50918292	RA39MQJWHWWI	0300100302	520227124	The Stranger from Paradise: A Biography of William Blake (Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art)	Books	5	20	38	N	Y	Why Blake Matters	This biography concentrates too much on Blake's occupation as an engraver and glosses over his reputation as a poet and visionary. Such a bluntly factual, objective account of Blake seems out of keeping with his spiritual enthusiasm and disdain for the factual (i.e. the physical world). But this book did help me develop an appreciation for Blake. The &quot;Songs of Innocence and of Experience&quot; did not impress me because they seemed to be the epitome of maudlin Christian sentimentality. However, Bentley's biography makes it clear that Blake was not a conventional Christian. I was impressed by the importance Blake placed on the imagination, creativity, and the arts as the true expressions of spirituality and the sublime. I also admire Blake's spirited defense of imagination and the Poetic Genius. <br />If Blake were alive today I think he would rant against the scholars rather than Empire. The scholars have laid claim to the poet's place in society and the only empire that exists today is the academic empire. Just look at the way a college campus expands and swallows up all the property around itself! It is the scholars who attack men of inspiration and genius because they need to promote poetry as something that can be taught and explicated.<br />Blake does seem mad when he talks about speaking with angels and spirits but he probably did possess the faculty of a visionary imagination which caused him to express such reverence for the world of imagination, even to the extent of preferring it to the natural world. It reminds me of a quote from Rimbaud, &quot;I came to find my mind's disorder sacred&quot;.	2004-06-10
US	50918292	R35WPV2TPK2KP0	185327030X	617466269	The Candle of Vision: Inner Worlds of the Imagination	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	Visionary Inspiration	There are similarities between George Russell and William Blake but George Russell attempted a rational explanation of visionary inspiration. Although he seemed to be primarily a nature mystic he also described visions which appeared to exceed his imagination. He argues that these visions appear instantaneously and since no artist could possibly create anything so subtle and perfect all at once, they must be memories or visions of something beyond the self. <br />His logic seems flawed to me. The subconscious is capable of instantly arriving at aesthetic solutions. It can meld dissimilar impressions into a satisfying whole effortlessly and with no apparent intermediate steps. Just like the idiot savant can solve a math problem instantly without doing any calculations. The imagination is capable of miraculous conceptions. To conclude from this that visions are the genuine appearance of the otherworldly because no genius could be so swift is rather doubtful.<br />George Russell does raise an interesting question about visions that seemingly exceed the imagination. Is this the genius of imagination which requires the visionary to egotistically take credit for the sublime or should the visionary ascribe these visions to something greater and beyond himself? I would argue that the subconscious contains much that the conscious mind is utterly unfamiliar with but that this is no reason to see subconscious imagery as being beyond the self. It is merely beyond the conscious self.	2004-05-23
US	50918292	R1XB4ZNO10UJ9L	1582211280	789884607	Poemes Choisies : Two Audio Compact Discs in French (French Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Rimbaud's Poetry Recited In French	This set of two audio CDs features many individuals reciting Rimbaud's poems in French. I was amazed to find Andr Breton on the first CD reciting &quot;Les Potes de sept ans&quot;! The selections include a few of Arthur Rimbaud's letters, The Drunken Boat, and several prose poems from Illuminations.	2004-05-04
US	50918292	R36N8S2MQQOJRX	0814777570	102931913	The Disinherited	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Supernatural Reverie	This is the only English biography of Gerard de Nerval except for the book by Solomon A. Rhodes. Having recently read the Rhodes biography, this book was merely a rehash of the same information including virtually identical anecdotes. However, it does feature some rare photos including the street where Nerval hanged himself.<br />Nerval is an interesting French poet because he was known as a  distracted soul. He was always lost in &quot;supernaturalist reverie&quot; and was drawn to mysticism. Nerval yearned for the ideal which he personified as various women. I do not believe that he was truly infatuated with these women as his biographers clearly believed him to be. Rather, I suspect he gave the enchantress of his mind a female form. The femme fatale was in fact the genius of his imagination which had him bewitched. I base this observation on the fact that Nerval was exceptionally self-absorbed and his phrase &quot;supernaturalist reverie&quot; is highly suggestive of this phenomenon of which I am quite familiar.	2004-04-19
US	50918292	RLSOUF5JID7J5	0786713054	931437166	Book Row: An Anecdotal and Pictorial History of the Antiquarian Book Trade	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Bibliophiles	It is refreshing to read books written by bibliophiles who express a true appreciation for fine books. They are true literary aesthetes. I've never known scholars or even poets to express such a love of books. Reading &quot;Book Row&quot; has inspired me to acquire more of the classics in fine editions. I think the authors were a little too dismissive of the Internet which has been a tremendous help to me in finding rare books. I no longer have to settle for what I find on the shelves in bookstores with bad taste in books. I can always find exactly what I want to read. The Internet is the greatest bookman there ever was!	2004-03-14
US	50918292	R3EH2MGRY5VTFO	0253212294	802156527	Real Things: An Anthology of Popular Culture in American Poetry	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The Cure For Our Schizophrenic Culture	It has always bothered me to read pretentious modern poetry which makes reference to Greek mythology, ancient history, and other esoteric subjects which are the delight of scholars but which are completely irrelevant to our life and times. Ezra Pound is a particularly aggravating practitioner of scholarly poetry. Modern poetry should be capable of embracing our tawdry popular culture and transforming it into the sublime though the simple devices of contemplation and intellectualization. The poet should have something to say about shopping malls and television even if only to point out how they provide depersonalizing experiences which tend to isolate us.<br />Real Things contains many poems that are delightful if only for their subject matter; poems about Gilligan's Island, soap operas, Superman, Frankenstein's monster, grocery stores, shopping malls, and strippers. Many of these poems are easier to relate to than \\"serious poetry\\" because the poets are being true to their actual experience of the mundane which is far more likely to speak to our life experiences than another retelling of the tragedy of Orpheus.<br /> There are a few notable poets missing from this anthology. I think Charles Bukowski, Lyn Lifshin, and Gerald Locklin have written enough poems of this nature to deserve inclusion in such a collection. Maybe the editors could not get permission from the publishers but the absence of these poets suggests that this is still poetry for the elite.	2003-06-16
US	50918292	R2ETAWSM5EK2DP	0966602846	617953190	The Never Wife	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Rubied Trees	\\"The Never Wife\\" is a very open and direct book with just enough cryptic passages to tantalize the intellect, but not so many as to frustrate the casual reader. There is however, an abundance of obscure referents which seem culled from personal history rather than erudition. As the title would suggest, Hogue's writing is part of the feminist discourse so I read this book with an unchallenged detachment. However, one line struck me as quite remarkable, \\"For dazzling her ken, the season / looms with its rubied trees of ruth.\\". Rubied trees is a fine description of fall foliage and dazzling her ken suggests an aesthetic response I can identify with. Ruth means sorrow or regret. It is a Middle English word. I don't think poets should use archaic words in their poems.	2002-11-10
US	50918292	RSPALW0NGNTWE	0669053783	55522930	Heath Introduction to Literature (College)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	My Old Community College Textbook	This is the textbook we used for my community college course in 1984. Unfortunately, this was the most advanced course I've ever taken in literature. It is amusing to review what poets and writers are included in this book and what poets and writers I consider important now. I have clearly not followed the prescribed course of study. However, this explains why I have six books by Denise Levertov. I was misguided. The questions that follow every poem, story, and play are vastly amusing and I think I can answer some of them now.	2002-01-29
US	50918292	R3RF3FNKULT63Q	0761527869	165746793	Install, Configure, and Customize Corel Linux	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Solution For Your Corel Linux Woes	Corel Linux is tough to upgrade because it was based on the Debian &quot;Slink&quot; release and now most Debian packages have been recompiled for the &quot;Potato&quot; release. It's been a struggle to install any software on my system. I bought TheKompany's PowerPlant development tools and none of the debian packages would install! This book has been extremely helpful in solving some of my Linux woes although I would like it to be even more technical and cover the system hacks you need to correct major problems. I couldn't even get emacs installed until I bought this book!	2001-02-09
US	50918292	R2Y6UV52ZMUZV9	0941543056	323134294	Hitler Painted Roses	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Dark Side Of The Imagination	I decided to check out Steve Richmond's work after reading a line in LIFSHIN &amp; RICHMOND, &quot;...all I see is the enlarging face of bugs bunny laughing...unfunny unfeeling ungood in any way to me...&quot; which  intrigued me as a nightmare vision. HITLER PAINTED ROSES also displayed a  fascinatingly dark imagination but was too slight a volume to give me much  of an impression of his work.	1999-11-07
