US	50923931	R3TWSPAIYOS6CE	1589802233	989380941	Battle of Carthage, The: Border War in Southwest Missouri, July 5, 1861	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Missouri at War.	There were sections of Missouri that yearned for the South, but the state remained a border state and never joined the Confederacy.  The Battle of Carthage was a series of small engagements between Governor Claiborne Jackson's Missouri State Guard and Franz Sigel's Union army.  Sigel fought the battle in classic Napoleonic style, complete with artillery bombardments.  The State Guard had superior numbers that included cavalry.  The Guard also endured poor leadership.  Franz Sigel had the training and experience, but lacked cavalry for reconnaissance and to guard the flanks of his small force.  For ten hours on July 5, 1861 the two armies slugged it out down the Lamar-Carthage road.  Sigel's German immigrants did well but could not prevail against the country boys of the State Guard.  The best Sigel could hope is, that he could avoid utter defeat.  After a disciplined retreat, the Union forces survived to fight another day.      No doubt, this is an obscure topic to the casual reader.  Hinze does a superior job of fleshing out the pertinent details.  He presents the facts in a cohesive and interesting manner.  The text includes fine detailed maps.  Portraits of the main players are also provided.  There are sufficient indexes and notes to satisfy Civil War purists.  A battlefield tour and author interview is also included.  This is a good book for anyone interested in reading Missouri Civil War history.  ;-)	2005-02-15
US	50923931	RU5C11WZ34ZL9	0486298981	854345501	The Insidious Dr. Fu-Manchu (Dover Classic Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Action packed mystery adventure.	\\"The Insidious Dr. Fu Manchu\\" is the first and among the best of a long line of adventures that feature the evil genius, Dr. Fu Manchu.  To borrow from Arthur Conan Doyle, the game is afoot in pre-WWI England.  There is not a central plot, but rather an episodic series of related adventures.  Government agent Nayland Smith and his intrepid scribe, Dr. Petrie are caught in a dizzy web of mystery and violent death.  Assassins abound.  Everything from dacoits to poisonous insects, from vipers to vamps is used to commit mayhem.  Fu Manchu is the sinister mastermind that directs the angels of doom.  We are told he seeks to advance what is vaguely described as \\"The Yellow Peril.\\"  (Since this pulp fiction was first published in 1913, the racial references do not allow for diversity scrutiny).  This is good armchair adventuring.  The prose is vigorous rather than literary.  The characters are mostly one-dimensional.  The most complex character is Fu Manchu himself.  One quibble, the evil doctor is too frequently offstage.  Much as an old movie serial, the action is fast and furious.  Good reading for pre-teens and aging baby boomers that recall the paperback series on dime store racks everywhere in the mid-60s.  If you remember when a paperback cost .60 cents, this book is for you.  Have fun. <br />;-)	2005-01-25
US	50923931	R1Q704GHG80N70	0380713950	971632676	A History of the Twentieth Century: Volume 3, 1952-1999	Books	4	2	2	N	N	No Peace on Earth.	Here we have the conclusion of Martin Gilbert's massive three-volume history of the 20th century.  One running theme is the relentless conflict ever present in the world.  We didn't gain any wisdom in the last century.  Starting with WWI and WWII to Vietnam, Lebanon, and Rwanda, we do keep killing each other somewhere.  An old joke goes something much as this:  for one brief, fleeting moment there was peace on earth.  It lasted just long enough for everyone to re-load.  Much attention is given in the book to remote regions of the world.  America and Western Europe are relegated to the back burner.  If it happened in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, or anywhere in the Third World, the author seemingly considers it more worthy.  Gilbert asserts that world history is certainly more than America and Western Europe.  He then proceeds accordingly in a deliberate and thoughtfully eclectic manner.  The defining event of the second half of the 20th century may have been the collapse of the Soviet Union.  The previous tensions between the super powers were filtered down to regional conflicts.  To date, the 21st century isn't any better.  So it goes.  This is a tremendous endeavor by the author.  It also requires time and perseverance by the reader.  The text is almost 1,000 pages.  Many maps are included in the appendix.  There are also plentiful B&W photos.  Not to everyone's taste, perhaps, but worthwhile for armchair historians. ;-)	2004-12-21
US	50923931	R3MQW6SJY07WGU	0441901964	894537378	Wizard Of Venus	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Lost Tales and Potboilers	Much as J. R. R. Tolkien and others, Edgar Rice Burroughs, popular purveyor of pulp fiction, had \\"lost\\" tales.  I like to read ERB, but this is not the Mars books or even the best of the Tarzan books.  This volume contains two unrelated stories, but are illustrative of second string ERB.  \\"The Wizard of Venus\\" continues the saga of Wrong Way Carson, who set out for Mars and found Venus instead.  I agree with ERB biographer Richard A. Lupoff, the story has merit as an easy introduction to the Venus series.  If you dont't like it, you don't have to bother reading any of the other four volumes.  \\"Pirate Blood\\" is a foray into 20th Century pirate-adventure land.  Even for pulp fiction, this tale relies way too much on ERB's love of fantastic coincidence.  Through several wild circumstantial developments, a California motorcycle cop, who is also a descendant of Jean Lafitte, joins modern pirates raiding in the Pacific.  Both stories were found among ERB's writings after his death.  They could be first drafts that await revision.  ERB fans should be happy with the results.  ;-)	2004-12-17
US	50923931	R291OUX1FSH84D	0142002038	816153289	Doctor No (James Bond Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Back to Basic 007.	When peculiar things transpire on an obscure Jamaican island called Crab Key, M sends Bond out to investigate.  Penguin Books has re-issued the James Bond novels and stories written by the incomparable Ian Fleming.  Note that this is the original series, not a well-intentioned imitation.  For the uninitiated, James Bond is the apex of fictional secret agents.  He defines Cold War espionage without dreary realism.  Bond is an iron fist in a velvet glove.  Bond is a good man to put on a tough job.  Fleming blends the intelligence of Dorothy Sayers with the hard-boiled leanness of Dashiell Hammett.  Snobbery is evident. Ian Fleming's books are escapist nonsense, and great fun.  The stories are refreshingly free of the parody of the movie versions.  The reader must suspend disbelief.  The action is hard and violent; call it &quot;blood and thunder.&quot;  Doctor No spins webs of murder and international crime.  Bond teams with Quarrel, the Cayman islander.  Bond also encounters the delectable Honeychile, the inevitable woman of the story.  A bonus of these books is the exciting cover art.  Take special note of the artist's vision of Honeychile.  She is a variation of Venus.  Reading these books reminds one of what drew us to the writing of Ian Fleming almost 40 years ago.  ;-)	2004-06-28
US	50923931	R2XLF7F5ZZ7ZAN	0192835386	139054782	The Duke's Children	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Victorian generation clash.	Lady Glencora Palliser is dead.  This must be understood or nothing wonderful can come of this tale.  The last installment of Trollope's Palliser series begins with this sad development.  Long Victorian faces grow even longer with grief.  Now ex-Prime Minster, Plantagenet Palliser must cope alone with the foibles of his three adult children.  As the reader discovers, their expectations are not consistent with their father's ideas.  Typical of Anthony Trollope, the story unfolds leisurely for 600+ pages.  Regardless, the quiet little story urges one to keep turning the pages.  19th century British politics, social customs, and romantic attitudes seem quaint, even amusing, by today's standards.  Much as the writings of Jane Austen, reconciling marriage and money drive the story.  Trollope's elegant style is a delight.  The reader is lulled into a quiet sense of relaxation.  No great truths or insights to report, but good downtime reading.  Appreciate the novel as you would a fine painting or a delicate antique tea set.  If one seeks a pleasant diversion from the noise, clatter, and electronics of modern life this is recommended reading.  Relish the experience. ;-)	2004-03-11
US	50923931	R13R1TIVQWA3KH	0142003220	932875476	For Your Eyes Only (James Bond Novels)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sampler of Bonded Fleming.	This collection of five James Bond stories is a slight effort.  For fans of Ian Fleming, this is an interlude in the major novels.  For the uninitiated, this is an opportunity to sample Fleming's fiction in its pristine state, before tampering by over-the-top filmmakers.  The typical traits of the Bond/Fleming cycle are present.  The James Bond created by Ian Fleming is an iron fist in a velvet glove.  A no-nonsense guy who is good to have on your side.  Fleming blends the hard-boiled edginess of Dashiell Hammett with the sophistication of Dorothy Sayers.  Snobbery is evident.  Bond is a lone wolf, and prefers it that way.  The writing assumes a working knowledge of French and Italian.  This can confuse some readers, especially Americans, in descriptions of food, liquor, etc.  Three of the five stories are straightforward Cold War era espionage stories of murder, revenge, and betrayal.  This includes \\"A View to a Kill,\\" \\"For Your Eyes Only,\\" and \\"Risico.\\"  The irascible M is present, most especially in the title tale.  Bonds comes off best in these three stories.  \\"Quantum of Solace\\" is an odd piece that could have been written by John O'Hara.  It shows Ian Fleming flexing his literary muscles.  \\"The Hildebrand Rarity\\" is a story of vengeance and murder, but it has nothing to do with Cold War spies.  These stories originally appeared in such varied publications as \\"Playboy\\" and \\"Cosmopolitan.\\"  Read and enjoy. Good down time reading.  ;-)	2004-02-13
US	50923931	R39V3AV8V7RUNL	0312929633	195129407	The Stalkers: The Battle Of Beecher Island, 1868 (The Plainsmen Series)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Rifles at the River.	Terry C. Johnston presents a grim historical novel that tells of the stand Maj. Forsyth and fifty army scouts made in 1868 against Chief Roman Nose and his warriors at what became known as The Fight at Beecher's Island.  If one can take Johnston's assertion of historical accuracy in the introduction at face value, this is  an effective way for entry-level armchair historians to learn more of Indian fights and fighters.  All but a few of the characters are based on historical figures.  The dialogue is no doubt subject to some artistic license, but the general details are accurate.  Johnston does not list a bibliography that would document his reserach.  The Cyrus Townsend Brady influence, however, is easily evident.  All fine and well until we consider the re-occurring fictional character of the series, Seamus Donegan.  Donegan detracts from the otherwise exciting novel by his unlikely ability to be a part of so many significant events of the Indian Wars.  His pulp-fiction subplots and general outrageous behavior hamper a smooth narrative.  The first part of this novel is action-packed and moves swiftly.  The pace tends to drag in the second half, but it reflects the drudgery and suffering of those who survived the multi-day siege.  The heroism of the typical army scout, the military integrity of the Buffalo soldiers, and the fierce Native American warriors are all given balanced space in Johnston's tale.  Good entry-level reading for beginning history fans.  ;-)	2003-12-18
US	50923931	RIBIK5G0ZZPGN	0553276859	489676925	The Sackett Brand (The Sacketts #10)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Sackett clan rides to the rescue.	Somebody ambushed Tell Sackett and left him for dead.  It takes more, however, than cowardly sidewinders to kill a Sackett.  Even worse, Tell's wife is missing.  After Tell determines that somebody of Lazy A ranch is guilty, he launches a one-man war against the cowboys.  Word spreads of the conflict, and Sackett brothers and cousins come out of the sagebrush to even the odds.  <br />Typical of Louis L'Amour, this novel is a quick hit of Western action.  The Sackett tales stress family solidarity. L'Amour is adept at writing of the lure of distant trails, the freedom of the big sky country, and the Code of the West.  He breathes new life and spirit into the usual elements of Western fiction.  This is good downtime reading.  Enjoy the ride. ;-)	2003-11-10
US	50923931	R16YRFS8JGZNDC	0060193638	220335700	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Exhaustive exposition of familiar material.	Noah Andre Trudeau wades in with a new version of the familiar story.  Although one can argue that this subject has been written into the ground, it is good to have a one-volume summary of Lee's 1863 invasion of the North from a 21st century perspective.  Trudeau's book is a mixed blessing.  There are detailed maps (including a clock face showing the time of day) of the various individual unit actions from Buford's stand against Heth's division right through Lee's eventual retreat.  The author is thorough to a fault, and the casual reader may grow restless waiting for the narrative to move forward.  The Confederate attacks against the Union flanks on the second day are presented in such exhaustive detail that the narrative tends to bog down.  One thing that is noteworthy is Trudeau's debunking of Gettysburg myth and folklore.  For example, Lee did not proclaim mournfully after Pickett's charge, &quot;It's all my fault!&quot;  Chamberlain's counter-attack on Little Round Top is presented as something less than folklore.  Some readers may object to this de-glamorizing of history.  Regardless, it apparently sets the record straight.  This book is recommended for serious Civil War buffs, but casual readers should be careful.  ;-)	2003-09-19
US	50923931	RDMPI8UHJ2I3K	0451137108	795996587	One Lonely Night	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Dark night of the soul.	Mickey Spillane's popularity in the 1950s was meteoric.  This novel is a prime example of Spillane at his snarling best.  The anti-Communist hysteria of post WWII America is the backdrop of this tale of lonely death and bloody vengeance.  \\"One Lonely Night\\" is the archetype Mike Hammer story.  All the classic elements are present, most particularly Velda, Hammer's delectable secretary.  A young woman's dive off a New York bridge draws Hammer into mystery-adventure mayhem.  A nest of Commie (the vernacular is everywhere) spies is hard at work on the streets of New York.  Unrestrained by official red tape, and at loggerheads with the authorities, Hammer embarks on a typical one-man war against the Russian-based MVD (whatever that is).  Spillane's prose is as rough as his fictional alter ego.  What the writing lacks in literary style, it gains in attitude and action.  Hammer's earthy first person narrative enhances the character.  The underside of the big city comes alive.  The body count is large.  The sex is raw rather than erotic.  The climactic scene in the warehouse, on the inevitable rainy night, is compelling.  As Velda hangs naked by a rope from the ceiling, the guy with the scythe and the black cowl stalks at Hammer's side and the machine gun belches blue flame and thunder.  The day of the guns prevails.  Good reading for genre fans and those who enjoy Mickey Spillane's viewpoint.  ;-)	2003-07-15
US	50923931	R226MMF4TS0UQ	0553259725	581296937	High Lonesome: A Novel	Books	5	26	28	N	N	&quot;Quiet.&quot;  &quot;Too quiet.&quot;	Riding the outlaw trail, Considine, Dutch, Hardy, and The Kiowa rob the bank at Obaro, where Runyon, an old partner of Considine's, is sheriff.  With the posse hot on their trail, the fugitives encounter Spanyer, the tough old frontiersman, and his daughter, Lennie.  Sparks fly between Lennie and Considine, much to Spanyer's dismay.  To further complicate things, marauding Apaches stalk the area.  Finally, outnumbered and outgunned, the motley crew makes a heroic stand up on High Lonesome.  As the rifles fire, the ground is covered with the dead.<br />This is a good action-adventure story from Louis L'Amour.  It's always troublesome to make heroes of killers and thieves, of course, but don't let good taste get in the way of a rousing Western story.  The writing is fast-paced and lean.  Character development is evident, but limited by the brief 150+ page length, and the emphasis on action.  Louis L'Amour breathes new life into the familiar Western cliches.  This is good escapism for down time reading. Recommended. ;-)	2003-04-16
US	50923931	RNVWNWNZYNAM5	014043349X	178320402	The Prime Minister (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Pallisers in Power.	Plantagenet Palliser reluctantly becomes the Prime Minister of England.  Lady Glencora continues her self-appointed task as a meddler in affairs of the heart and now politics.  We are glad to see the couple back at the forefront of our story, the 5th entry of the Palliser saga.  Re-appearing characters Lizzie Eustace and Phineas Finn are present, but only in minor roles.  The delightful Marie, now Mrs. Finn, stands by Cora in triumph and trouble.  Lopez slithers on the scene and courts Emily Wharton, much to her family's dismay.  The novels of Anthony Trollope are the Victorian equivalent of daytime TV dramas.  They are lightweight, but entertaining.  The pace is leisurely, and the book goes on for 700+ pages.  Graham Greene once wrote that Trollope's novels ease stress levels because nothing much happens.  The stylish presentation in smoothly written prose compensates the reader nicely.  Besides, nobody captured the comic essence of Victorian manners and morals as Trollope.  The unyielding men and women are often the cause of their own dilemmas.  This book is a pleasant contrast to the noise, bustle, and electronic hardware of modern life.  Recommended reading. ;-)	2003-03-25
US	50923931	R1EO5TNXJTB2I	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Illusions of Your Mind.	Martha, an Ohio wife and mother, flees to a cave along the Rio Grande when violence disrupts her peaceful home.  Her husband sends a detective on her trail, and love blossoms.  This quirky little tale is fine for readers who enjoy their suspense flavored with plot twists and psychological overtones.  The pace is leisurely.  Tension builds slowly.  The climax of the novel is sudden and leaves the readers putting their own spin on the story.  Knowing the difference between reality and illusion plays a major part.  Think of a romantic Twilight Zone episode and you get the idea.  Kathy Hepinstall enjoys a credible reputation as a rising author of suspense novels.  This is good lite reading.  ;-)	2003-03-11
US	50923931	RP1PVFRZ2VLWB	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Portrait of a Fighting Man.	To say that this book is powerful is inadequate.  235 men of Company K, 3d Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division went ashore at Peleliu in September of 1944.  In June of 1945, after mopping up at Okinawa, only 26 of the original K/3/5 made it through.  Note E. B. Sledge's integrity as an objective observer of war.  Sledge, known as \\"Sledgehammer\\" by the raggedy-... Marines, tells his horrific story without whining or self-pity.  Neither is he grinding an anti-war, \\"peace at any price\\" ax.  His experience is of the face of battle reduced to its most sickening level.  Never mind the position movements on maps at headquarters; the stench of battle prevails.  From Sledge's viewpoint, grand strategy gave way to one-on-one enemy action in his sector.  Fear and survival exclude swagger.  Men in battle persevere to kill the enemy and to support their buddies.  Naive expectations fade quickly as maggots infest the dead and torrential jungle rain fills the foxholes.  Bloody Nose Ridge and the Shuri Line grind the Marines.  The snap of bullets, the whine of artillery shells, and the agonized cries of wounded comrades are the only soundtrack.  Mental and emotional fatigue takes a fearful toll, right along with bloody wounds and dreadful field sanitation.  Sledge deplores the brutish nature of war, but recognizes its occasional inevitability, humanity's great dilemma.  The privilege of freedom carries its own responsibilities.  Heed the writing of a fighting man who knows.  This book should be required reading for all persons on both sides of the war controversy.  ;-)	2003-02-04
US	50923931	R37R5MG38IUY73	014006768X	98817612	The First Rumpole Omnibus	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Tales of Rumpole.	Horace Rumpole, the Old Bailey hack, shines in this collection of John Mortimer's stories.  Rumpole is the master of acerbic wit and keen observation.  Donned in a wig and robe, he thrusts and parries his way through the English criminal justice system, soldiering on for his mostly shady clients.  One of Rumpole's rules is \\"never plead guilty.\\"  He also stands fast on the principle that hearing the truth from one's client can be dangerous.  It usually puts the lawyer in an awkward position.  Rumpole fortifies himself with an ample supply of little cigars, modestly priced claret, and an old copy of the \\"Oxford Book of English Verse,\\" from which he quotes Wordsworth and others from memory.  Amidst an hilarious ensemble of reappearing supporting characters, Rumpole goes forth daily to fight the good fight and also keep the legal fees and refreshers coming in to the Rumpole bank account.  He fears only She Who Must Be Obeyed.  His wife, Hilda, who rules their home in Froxbury Court with an iron hand.  Written with humor, affection, and intelligence these stories are pure delight.  The stories vary in length, but average 40-50 pages.  Take Sherlock Holmes and P. G. Wodehouse, mix with Mortimer's background as a barrister, flavor with amusing vernacular and chatty first-person narrative, and you have good lite reading.  Especially recommended for busy readers in the era of weighty tomes that populate popular fiction.  ;-)	2002-12-02
US	50923931	R1JF84TQICOFFR	0553257714	698286959	The Rider of Lost Creek	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Louis L'Amour Misses the Mark.	Gunfighter Lance Kilkenny wades into a range war in the Live Oak country.  To state the obvious, Western novels can be either entertaining or dull.  Beware the predictable mixture as before product.  This story begins with great promise, but falters along the way.  The reader expects an exciting tale of cattlemen, barbed wire, and blazing sixguns in the Texas Cow Country.  Oddly, a murder mystery gets in the way of the action.  Since the plot can't decide between a range war and a whodunit, diminished reading pleasure results.  There is some action and suspense, of course, but it loses its punch from a logical story perspective.  L'Amour typically enriches his Westerns with enough authentic historical detail to stand above the familiar \\"a man, a horse, and a gun\\" formula.  This novel is a second-string effort by the Master of the West.  It may please dedicated fans, but casual readers beware. ;-)	2002-10-23
US	50923931	R3TG4VLGSOO8IK	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"It's always a heavy load..."	Just what the world needs. One more review of \\"Gone With the Wind.\\" I approached reading this book with a sense of trepidation. I looked at its 1,000+-page length, and doubted it was worth my time. I was afraid that it would be nothing more than an overblown historical romance novel. \\"I'll think about it tomorrow\\" summarizes the artistic merit of the book, I thought. Without the famous movie to sustain its reputation, who in their right mind would bother reading the book? Well, I was wrong. Looking beyond the soap opera of Scarlett, Rhett, and Ashley, I found things that really make this novel worthwhile. It's a richly detailed and historically accurate story of the Civil War and Reconstruction period, seen by those who bore the deprivations of daily life, not to mention the loss of loved ones. Although formatted as fiction, here we have living history. Margaret Mitchell draws deeply on her Georgia roots and gives the reader a uniquely Southern perspective of State Rights, slavery, Yankees, Carpetbaggers, Lincoln Republicans, and even the infamous Ku Klux Klan. Through the tribulations of Scarlett O'Hara, Mitchell argues that the Southern Cause appeared noble, but was ultimately foolish and futile. Above all, both Scarlett and Rhett Butler are practical people who doubt the sagacity of stifling social mores, and blind political affiliation. One can view Scarlett as the image of the South as she matures from a frivolous girl full of romantic notions into a strong, independent woman. Her pragmatism and steely resolve, forged on an anvil of personal suffering and survival, is another theme of the novel. It's easy to find the romantic melodrama of the surface plot distracting because it is fine entertainment. To enhance your reading pleasure, however, notice the rich historical detail and heed Scarlett's determination. As God is my witness, this is good reading. ;-)	2002-09-23
US	50923931	R2XX505ZWA2RIJ	0140445064	826299609	How Much Land Does a Man Need? and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Tolstoy Sampler.	Tolstoy wrote some remarkable short fiction.  There is, for example, the detached observer of war and its effect.  The early stories based on his military experience in the Caucasus \\"The Raid,\\" \\"The Woodfelling,\\" and \\"The Prisoner of the Caucasus\\" are examples of this aspect of Tolstoy's craft.  Tolstoy anticipated authors such as Stephen Crane and Ernest Hemingway in his unglamorous portrait of war.  Tolstoy's slice of life sketches have little blood and thunder.  The writing speaks more of futility than of glory or Mother Russia.  Except for wasteful, impersonal death, men at war do not progress; their only goal is survival.  Then there is the spiritual side of Tolstoy's art.  Simple parables patterned on the Gospels in their truth and biblical purity.  The title piece speaks of a landowner's greed and its result.  \\"Where Love Is, God Is,\\" and \\"What Men Live By\\" are examples of the later Tolstoy and his spiritual views.  Although Tolstoy was grounded in Chritianity, Russian Orthodoxy and organized religions left him cold.  Tolstoy was more mystic than cleric.  His spiritual views rejected dogma and flowed from springs of human compassion.  Love inevitably provokes action.  Feed the hungry, comfort the sick, and care for widows and orphans.  Then we find God among us.  This collection of stories has an insightful introduction by editor and biographer A. N. Wilson.  It's a good cross sample of Tolstoy's short fiction.  ;-)	2002-08-21
US	50923931	RS697UD7IUN81	0878332162	106804739	I Was That Masked Man	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A fiery horse with the speed of light, a cloud of dust...	Clayton Moore's book is a treat for aging baby-boomers who still return to those thrilling days of yesteryear.  Even with his respectable work product as a B movie actor in the '40s, Moore (&quot;Jack&quot; to insiders) was relatively unknown when he first appeared as The Lone Ranger in TV's version of the classic radio series.  The best parts of the book are the behind the scene details of the famous TV show.  Moore recalls his friendship with Jay Silverheels, a full-blooded Mohawk whose real name was Harold J. Smith.  Tonto's dialogue both annoyed and amused Silverheels.  Silverheels joked about it with Moore, but he also worked to improve the film image of Native Americans.  Two horses portrayed Silver.  We also learn the story of Lone Ranger Rock, featured in the opening sequence of the show.  For decades, Moore made personal appearances in character.  Wherever he traveled, everybody loved him for what he meant to Western folklore and us.  He was careful to preserve the integrity of the image in his private life.  In a conspicuous public relations blunder, The Wrather Corporation, because of a new movie (circa, 1980), took Moore to court to prohibit him from wearing the mask in public.  Loyal fans united in protest and stayed away from the box office in droves.  After the film flopped, Moore got the mask back.  Moore says he knew there was a private person besides the public image, and that he was careful to keep the two identities separate.  Regardless, Clayton Moore was that masked man.  Recommended reading for nostalgia buffs and generations of loyal Lone Ranger fans.  ;-)	2002-07-02
US	50923931	R1ATSTP7L96KJN	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ruffles and flourishes, and the Corps.	Douglas MacArthur cut a broad swath through the first 50 years of the 20th century.  His exploits in WWII and Korea engross armchair generals to this day.  Oddly, the pinnacle of MacArthur's career may have been his military governance of Japan during the five years between WWII and Korea.  MacArthur, the professional warrior, displayed remarkable political skill and compassion dealing with a complicated situation.  In battle, other commanders unnessarily took heavy casualties in achieving military goals.  MacArthur achieved his goals, from New Guinea to Inchon, by masterful strategies that spared men and material.  His failure to adapt to the Cold War concept of a \\"limited war\\" in Korea led to his downfall.  In MacArthur's 19th century vision, an all-out effort to defeat the enemy was the only way to wage war.  Anything less was anathema.  His famous conflict with the feisty Harry Truman over Korea makes fascinating reading.  William Manchester's work is exhaustive.  As usual, he paints history with a broad brush.  The military and political events, including the people and the background, receive a big-picture treatment.  Aloofness, conceit, and pretentiousness make MacArthur a difficult subject.  Manchester does a good job of presenting a three-dimensional picture of the man, the husband, the father, and the general.  The book respects the general's place in American history without fawning over its subject.  MacArthur was as close to Caesar as one can get in a healthy democratic republic.  This work is recommended for multiple reading and further studies.  ;-)	2002-06-24
US	50923931	RUPQQCO50TQX	0140094601	916276485	Eleanor Roosevelt, Vol. 1: 1884-1933	Books	5	67	71	N	N	"...assertive, independent, and bold."	Eleanor Roosevelt's passions impress those who recall her later public image as a dowdy grandmother-type. No cracks about prominent teeth, please.  Author Blanche Wiesen Cook does a commendable job of telling a familiar story from a fresh perspective.  This book details ER's life from childhood to the beginning of her career as First Lady.  The theme of the book is ER as \\"assertive, independent, and bold.\\"  As long as she lived by other people's expectations, ER was stifled.  After she asserted her independence, she was happier and more successful.  \\"She feared rigidities,\\" Cook asserts.  She abhorred the judgmental absolutes that she thought contributed to her parents' problems and early deaths.  ER aspired to walk in the humanist footsteps of her mentor and great teacher, Marie Souvestre.  Intriguing questions of ER's private life remain unanswered because she destroyed many of her personal letters and papers.  Her marriage to Franklin Roosevelt was mercurial, and the boundaries grew undefined.  After 1918, a crisis year in their marriage, ER formed a number of associations with women social activists.  She embarked in new directions, and tirelessly supported women's issues.  Ironically, she opposed the 1920s version of the equal rights amendment because she felt it would remove protections that women enjoyed under the laws of that time.  Woven through the tapestry of the narrative are questions of ER's love life.  Her close working friendships with lesbian activists, at minimum, suggest Sapphic possibilities.  ER's views of love and sex were nonconformist, and included men and women.  Both Earl Miller and Lorena Hickock played special roles in her life.  Cook writes of Eleanor Roosevelt as a three-dimensional woman of joy and sorrow.  This book is an eye opening and enjoyable read.  Highly recommended.  ;-)	2002-05-31
US	50923931	R1AMHH1ZSIPGXA	0553257420	697198135	Killoe: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Troubled Trails.	Texas ~ 1858.  Dan Killoe ramrods a ragtag group of ranch families who pull up stakes and push their herds west.  Searching for new country, they fight rustlers, Comanches, and raiding Comancheros.  This is an ambitious novel.  The story has gunfights, cattle stampedes, and a dollop of romance.  In the grim desert, the water shortage for the great herd is severe.  Breeding stock dangerously diminishes.  Failure and lonesome death loom.  Courage, loyalty, and survival are common themes.  The action is swift and hard.  The plot is busy.  The rapid pace of L'Amour's pulp magazine origins is evident.  Character development is still emerging when the book rather abruptly ends.  Louis L'Amour breathes new life into the familiar elements of the Western story.  Iron men and stoic women prevail.  The writing has an air of authenticity that adds to the reader's enjoyment.  This quick hit of lite reading rises above the mixture as before pitfalls.  Excellent for armchair adventurers.  ;-)	2002-05-06
US	50923931	RH12QFZYC9XBE	0684801531	955093321	F. Scott Fitzgerald: A Life in Letters: A New Collection Edited and Annotated by Matthew J. Bruccoli	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Beautiful and Damned.	F. Scott Fitzgerald scholar Matthew J. Bruccoli offers a discerning sample of Fitzgerald's letters that serve as an informal biography.  Fitzgerald suffered many demons.  Alcoholism and poor health were the obvious problems.  From reading his letters, we learn that protecting his artistic integrity also weighed heavily on him.  Money problems forced him to spend time writing lightweight but commercially viable stories for magazines.  This took precious time away from his major work of writing serious novels.  His afflicted wife, Zelda, was another dilemma.  In 1930, Zelda had her first breakdown, and never recovered.  Providing for her care and treatment added to his money woes.  Although Fitzgerald enjoyed early success in 1920 with \\"This Side of Paradise,\\" it was short-lived.  By 1924, he wrote to Edmund Wilson, \\"I really worked hard as hell last winter--but it was all trash and it nearly broke my heart.\\"  There was critical success in 1925 with \\"The Great Gatsby,\\" but it was a financial disappointment.  Fitzgerald spent the next nine years writing, revising, and agonizing over \\"Tender Is the Night.\\"  Contrary to hope, that book failed to restore his reputation.  The letters display deep introspection, opinions on other writers, comments of manners and morals, and daily concerns of money.  There are also amusing and chatty letters to his daughter, Scottie.  Fitzgerald's letters to Scribner's Maxwell Perkins and his literary agent, Harold Ober, are the most interesting, and reveal much of his concerns and ideas.  Letters written to Zelda in the sanitarium are generally tender and loving, but occasionally they are cross and complaining.  The book stops with a letter written to Scottie shortly before Fitzgerald's death in December 1940.  Recommended reading for F. Scott Fitzgerald fans.  ;-)	2002-04-16
US	50923931	R1J5WZJIY9KX08	019281589X	258130216	Phineas Redux (The World's Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good sequel to "Phineas Finn."	The Pallisers carry on in this rambling Victorian novel.  Phineas Finn's wife dies, and he again enters politics.  He picks up with the various women in his life.  Violet Effingham is now happily married.  Laura Standish is married, but estranged from her husband.  Marie Goesler is the eternal enigma.  Love and money again wreaks havoc with Phineas's life.  Trollope mesmerizes the reader with polished prose that adds a touch of elegance.  Style prevails over substance in his novels.  British politics are bewildering, but Victorian manners and morals are the real story.  The mating dance that unfolds in drawing rooms and country weekends is amusing.  Subplots abound.  The novel has more drama than usual.  Phineas is accused of murder.  Trollope manages unexpected tenderness in his depiction of Laura Kennedy.  She longs for Phineas, who once was her lover.  Fearing scandal, she suffers a lonely life, and regrets what might have been.  Lady Glencora and Plantagenet Palliser play a role in the book.  They are now the Duke and Duchess of Omnium.  Consequently, a new dilemma confronts Plantagenet.  Lady Glencora is the tireless meddler, regardless.  Marie Goesler is ever more important in Phineas's life.  Trollope's work is lightweight, but refreshing.  This book is good down time reading to escape the clamor and fast pace of modern life.  ;-)	2002-03-26
US	50923931	R2KI471XCB5MHO	0553247654	169313678	Guns of the Timberlands: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Classic early work of Louis L'Amour.	The riders of the Bar B stand their ground when an army of lumberjacks arrive in Tinkersville to ravage the forest, an important part of the Bar B spread.  Jud Devitt has a contract to supply railroad ties to the Mexican Central Railroad.  He is a ruthless man and usually gets his way.  He meets his match in Clay Bell, the tall and straight owner of the Bar B.  When various legal maneuvers fail to dislodge the cattlemen, it's guns and fists in blazing Western action.  The disparate visions of those who develop the land and those who exploit natural resources drive the conflict.  Louis L'Amour breathes new life into the familiar elements of the Western story.  Although this novel was written back in 1955, the environmentalist vs. capitalist angle sounds familiar.  A clash between cattlemen and lumberjacks is an unusual variation of the typical Western conflict.  L'Amours novels and stories are a quick hit of colorful Wesyern adventure.  They are good lightweight reading and a pleasant change from the plugged-in clamor of modern life. ;-)	2002-02-19
US	50923931	R3BW1PGRYK8XDD	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Man from Quincy.	After reading David McCullough's book, it's evident that John Adams's lack of popular recognition is unfair.  When given a choice, Adams tried to remain unobtrusive, but he was an important part of the founding of America.  His single term as the second president is not a subject well known among casual readers of American history.  Adams's greatest accomplishment as president may have been preventing an ill-timed war with France.  Not the basis for a great legacy in a world of short attention spans and superficial values.  Adams made significant contributions to American law and government.  Among other things, his ideas were included in the U. S. Constitution.  The private man rather than the public figure is the real story.  Adams was well read, a man of integrity, and had simple goals in life.  Aside from his family and his books, Adams found greatest joy in tending his Massachusetts farm.  He abhorred slavery, but recognized its importance to Virginia planters.  The political arena wasn't one of his priorities.  Fate had other ideas.  David McCullough serves up a masterful effort of historical research.  A significant amount of the sources the author cites is from The Adams Papers collection.  They include John Adams's letters and journals, and those of the discerning and perceptive Abigail Adams.  McCullough relishes the intelligence of his characters.  The panorama of American history is superlative.  Even so, one wonders if McCullough is too kind to John Adams.  The real Adams may have been more acerbic than his portrayal in this book.  This is not light reading.  The book suffers in comparison to McCullough's previous work on the life of Harry Truman.  Regardless, it is highly recommended to students of American history. ;-)	2002-02-14
US	50923931	R1C8ITUHPX3E1I	0848806190	259983789	Drums of Fu Manchu	Books	3	3	3	N	N	"He was Satan incarnate..."	Europe ~ 1939.  As the fragrance of the deadly hawthorn wafts through the night air, sinister drums beat in the distance and herald the dreadful Green Death.  The Si Fan and the insidious Dr. Fu Manchu murder military and political leaders who threaten world peace.  Although it appears that Fu Manchu has switched to the side of the angels, Nayland Smith doesn't buy it.  In his nervous and high strung way, Smith runs around trying to prevent the death of war mongers.  In the process, he tries to determine what the heck Fu Manchu is up to now.  <br />This entry in the classic mystery-adventure series is good lightweight reading.  We aren't speaking of great literature, but as a pulp novel, it serves the purpose for young adult readers (and those who remain young adult at heart).  Typical of Sax Rohmer, there is a lot of running around and narrow escapes.  Cryptic characters abound.  The evil doctor stays one step ahead of his pursuers.  Nayland Smith and Bart Kerrigan do what they can to frustrate Fu Manchu's fiendish purpose.  Back and forth it goes.  There are less of the typical \\"yellow peril\\" overtones of the earlier books in the series to trouble modern readers.  To borrow a phrase from Sherlock Holmes, \\"The game's afoot!\\"  Enjoy the fun.  ;-)	2002-01-23
US	50923931	R1KKGJEMKGY6PY	0375753052	221254919	Topper (Modern Library)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Topper's midlife crisis.	Thorne Smith's fantasy of Cosmo Topper and ghostly George and Marion Kerby is more thought provoking than one might expect.  Although rich with humor, the story has pensive undertones.  The story is of Topper's rebellion against his dull life and marriage.  After the wild and crazy Kerby's perish in a road accident, middle-aged Topper buys their repaired sporty automobile.  He discovers their ghostly presence, and joins the playful spirits in a road trip that takes up much of the novel.  His flirtation with the delectable Marion Kerby may have seemed racy 'way back when, but it is mild stuff today.  George Kerby is absent for part of the story.  While George is away, Topper and Marion play, mostly at Marion's instigation.  The snickering references to drinking, ladies lingerie, and compromising positions offers amusement.  One needs to understand the old term &quot;step-ins.&quot;  Typical of the TV and movie versions, Topper deals with a number of awkward situations when ghostly happenings occur before bewildered onlookers.  This evokes chuckles, but there is more of yearning in the book than laugh-out-loud comedy.  This book is a beguiling relic of the 1920s.  It's worth a look.  To enhance your appreciation of the book, avoid the pitfall of preconceived notions based on the films and TV versions.  Multiple readings are recommended.  ;-)	2002-01-17
US	50923931	R28NJXO4RK99UA	0878423303	466364435	Cow Country (Tumbleweed)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	&quot;...that's not a farming country, it's a cow contry.&quot;	Will James' collection of stories and illustrations is a beguiling antique, first published in 1927.  The theme is the changing culture of the West during the first 25 years or so of the 20th century.  Cattlemen and cowboys struggle with new methods and technology.  Environmentalism is threatened.  Cow country gradually changes ownership, and the stage is set for clashes in vision.  Out on the Y-Bench spread, the new owner is a dude who tries to impose European ideas of saddles, livestock husbandry, and range management.  Grizzled Bearpaw and the boys take exception to these mandated changes.  Humorous confrontations ensue.  In another story, two old timers just can't stomach encroaching civilization and head west for California, until real estate developers scare them back to Wyoming.  The presentation of the book is more than its content.  The many charcoal and pen-and-ink drawings look as rustic and hardened as the weather beaten cowboys, wild horses, and longhorns they portray.  The first person narratives of the Westerners are rich with vernacular and colloquialism.  The stories are lightweight, but hearfelt.  More as written portraits than tales of Western adventure.  Will James' work as an illustrator compares favorably with Remington and Russell.  The book celebrates his love of the land and the animals, a change of pace for modern readers.  ;-)	2001-12-28
US	50923931	R2UCIJS3MI5YNT	0140431160	461046278	The Life of Samuel Johnson (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	25	30	N	N	Biography as English literature.	Typically, I have a bias against abridged editions of literary works.  Nevertheless, prudent editing and abridgement enhances the casual reader's appreciation of this literary tome.  Undergraduates working a required reading list for English Lit classes are on their own.  Anyway, Samuel Johnson was a noted author and editor of the 18th century English literary scene.  Instead of an exhaustive study of Johnson's life as author and editor, biographer Boswell compiled a series of anecdotes, quotations, and correspondence that is held together by his friendship with Johnson.  Boswell's purpose was to capture the essence of the man.  Johnson was adept at articulating pithy remarks with surgical precision.  For example, &quot;...a woman's preaching is like a dog's walking on his hinder legs.  It is not done well; but you are surprized to find it done at all.&quot;  The 18th century spellings, etc. remain intact.  We have Johnson to thank for the familiar &quot;...hell is paved with good intentions,&quot; and &quot;Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.&quot;  Boswell takes care to portray Johnson as sexually moral.  After the death of his wife, Johnson (according to Boswell) was apparently celibate.  Johnson rebuffed &quot;women of the town,&quot; and said he wasn't interested in their carnal delights.  Johnson told David Garrick, the actor, that he would not go backstage at the theater because &quot;the white bubbies and silk stockings of your Actresses excite my genitals.&quot;  As an interesting aside, the editor's introduction speculates that Johnson's relationship with the widow Thrale may have been sexual, with bondage overtones.  Who knows?  The description of London coffeehouses, theaters, and gathering places are heavy with 18th century atmosphere.  Bottom line, reading this book is interesting as a curiosity.  Its relevance for 21st century readers may seem limited, but don't let that stop you from sampling the fare.  ;-)	2001-12-26
US	50923931	R1P7Z4CJLELYH0	0451137442	759621426	The Girl Hunters (Signet)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Guilty pleasure.	Mike Hammer, Mickey Spillane's street-wise private-eye, has been on a seven-year drunk. His perennial girlfriend and licensed P.I. office assistant, Velda, died on a bodyguard job that Mike should have handled himself. Hammer sobers up very fast when a dying secret agent tells him that Velda is still alive, but in danger. In this throwback to the Cold War, Hammer embarks on another case of murder, mayhem, and espionage. On a rainy night, the girl hunters prowl. When Hammer encounters the dread assassin known as &quot;The Dragon,&quot; he strikes both tooth and nail. <br />Mickey Spillane's writing is something less than literary, but the fast pace holds the attention. In this era of veritable tomes by Tom Clancy, etc., Spillane's succinct mystery adventure novels (i.e., less than 200 pages) are a quick hit of gutter tough action. Mike Hammer boldly proclaims his rightwing political beliefs at the business end of his rod, a .45 Colt automatic. A running theme in the writings of Mickey Spillane is the aggressive and violent pursuit of &quot;commie slobs.&quot; Bureaucrats and politicians who coddle nefarious elements should beware the day of the guns. To his credit, Spillane does an effective job of capturing the essence of the underside of New York City, both its stenches and forbidden delights. His first-person narrative features slang and jargon of 40 years ago. We imagine that Hammer's lifestyle of cigarettes (deck of Luckies), beer (Blue Ribbon), and unprotected sex (every sex kitten in sight) causes fear and trembling in the politically correct crowd. Hammer's unbridled male chauvinism is another amusing relic of a bygone era. Published in 1963, this book is typical of the second phase of Spillane's productive years as a novelist, after his first spectacular burst of popularity in the early '50s. Enjoy the action. ;-)	2001-12-12
US	50923931	R1M9G6Y6O4DZ0P	0803263805	940560493	Jesse James Was My Neighbor	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Down home history.	Homer Croy wrote this informal biography of the James boys of Missouri, first published in 1949.  The author uses homespun sources for many of the stories and anecdotes of Jesse and Frank, the Younger brothers, and their nefarious associates.  Mr. Croy lived near Jesse's base in northwestern Missouri, hence the title. Croy was born the year after Jesse died, and considered himself almost a contemporary.  He traveled to various towns and farms interviewing folks who remembered the Widow James and her famous sons.  The result is a casual history, and reminds one of sitting on a front porch in small town Missouri while the old people spin tales.  Lest one doubt the credibility of the sources, Mr. Croy takes care through newspaper archives and other, more objective sources to verify the facts.  He also briefly examines the influence of Frank and Jesse on dime novels, art, and movies.  Croy is forthright in his biases, but also keeps his tongue firmly planted in his cheek.  Out in Missouri, folks truly admired Jesse and Frank, especially their low opinion of banks and railroads.  It's doubtful that Jesse James was really an Old West Robin Hood, but the book never seriously suggests that as a fact.  We can believe that Jesse's killer, Bob Ford, was a coward, and that Pinkerton men were considered polecats.  Decent folks just didn't stand for that type of behavior.  The book won't give the reader any particular insight, beyond the obvious, of the James boys and their motivations.  Nevertheless, it's an entertaining blend of fact and folklore.  Good light reading for students of Western history.  ;-)	2001-11-06
US	50923931	R2YGILZGDIU4T	0425166228	614955185	Once a Marshal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	&quot;A savage place...As e'er beneath a waning moon...&quot;	Any Western novel that uses a quote from Samuel Taylor Coleridge at the beginning is worth a look. One of the challenges of writing good Western fiction is making the familiar elements seem fresh and exciting. In addition, avoiding the bland plot formulas of TV and many paperback Western stories is necessary. Peter Brandvold's story of aging lawman Ben Stillman, although a variation of the &quot;riding the vengeance trail&quot; stories, meets these expectations. His characters appear true to life. Ben Stillman is hardly an indestructible superhero. He bruises and bleeds, as anyone. He also tenaciously stays on the killers' trail. The villains are more one-dimensional in their lust, greed, and violence. Donovan Hobbs diminishes to a caricature. Weed Cole is a good portrait of a real Western badman. There is violence and sex in this story. Branvold avoids the gratuitous of both as they emanate from logical plot and character development. This is a '90s Western. The women are tough and independent, but also lusty and desirable. Fay Hobbs holds the reader's attention, and does more than wait around for rescue. The setting up north on the Hi-Line is a welcome change from Arizona sagebrush and dusty Texas spreads. The plot takes a little time to get moving. Beyond this minor quibble, it gathers steam as a locomotive in motion that roars to a thunderous destination. This book is a promising first novel that captures the flavor of the old West without the standard &quot;mixture as before&quot; pitfalls. The epilogue demonstrates this nicely. Good, lightweight reading. ;-)	2001-09-25
US	50923931	R2ZQIQ4U9W2WK8	0345434811	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Road to Appomattox.	As &quot;The Killer Angels,&quot; this book is history written as a novel. It tells of the last year of the Civil War. Jeff Shaara uses historical figures as his main characters. The typical best-selling historical novel presents fictional main characters engaged in a fictitious story that includes bona fide historical figures and events. Authors such as Margaret Mitchell and John Jakes come to mind. Shaara's approach is unusual and effective. It enables the reader to get inside the minds of people such as Robert E. Lee, U. S. Grant, and Abraham Lincoln. The artistic license in play is arguable. Regardless, however, of the strict accuracy of the dialogue and introspection, the essence of the characters is on target, and supported by reputable nonfiction sources. The story unfolds slowly; capturing some of the tedium of a conflict that seems endless. There are no ruffles and flourishes or tacky appeals to patriotism here. Only a grim determination to persevere. Sprinkled along the way are maps of the battles described. This is also unusual in a novel. Thankfully, Shaara doesn't re-write history. Consequently, there isn't much suspense or surprise plot developments. The violence is only of the battlefield. Flying in the face of historical romance novels, the only romantic love mentioned is of husband and wife. No heaving bosoms to report. Presenting the human side of history without artificial melodrama compensates the reader for the lack of fictional devices typical of popular novels. The book is good as entry level reading for readers new to Civil War history, including young adults. History buffs that already know the facts can enjoy the book as entertaining reading that breathes new life into a familiar subject. ;-)	2001-08-27
US	50923931	R3K2IP9LHGMLDF	0440329078	841614490	Goodbye Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War (Laurel Book)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Grim picture of men at war.	William Manchester's riveting book is a combination of autobiography, a Marine memoir, and deep introspection.  The hard as nails portrait of men who bore the battle in the Pacific War is good reading for thoughtful readers who aspire to know the human side of history.  The book is also a revealing insight of the mindset of the WWII generation that sharply contrasts with their self-absorbed children.  The book dispels some of the nonsense of men at war.  Although the Raggedy Ass Marines scoff when a fellow suggests that they are &quot;steel hardened by fire,&quot; gritty determination to do the job drives them.  Manchester argues that men do not endure battle for ruffles and flourishes, or because of tacky appeals to patriotism.  Quite simply, men endure battle for love of comrades.  While recovering from his own million-dollar-wound, Manchester learned that his company was going into the thick of battle at Okinawa.  He went AWOL from the hospital to re-join the Raggedy Ass Marines, and was severely wounded.  Such seemingly irrational behavior can only be explained by the bond that men develop in dire circumstances.  Never mind flags and the false trappings of glory, the Marines were accountable to each other.  That is what matters.  The young Marine Manchester will not compromise on core beliefs with the aging author he has become.  Hence, Manchester's troubled dreams and reflective mid-life melancholy.  Recommended reading. ;-)	2001-08-14
US	50923931	R161TYD1S5650X	0449224775	534679283	The Scarlet Ruse	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Of stamps, women, and introspection.	Travis McGee embarks on another of his trademark &quot;salvage&quot; missions involving a fortune in missing rare stamps.  McGee's ruminations on people, relationships, human aspirations, money, politics, etc. are amusing social commentary, albeit thirty years later.  Some of the observations of life in the '70s seem dated, but not enough to matter.  Beyond this slight quibble, there is the vicious killer, and the complex mystery of the missing stamps.  In addition, we have Mary Alice McDermit, a dark-haired giant of a woman with a healthy sex-drive and a troubled past.  The lovable Meyer is present, still pontificating on economics and human foibles.  As mystery-suspense novels go, the Travis McGee series is a perennial favorite.  John D. MacDonald stresses introspection and character development rather than blood and thunder action.  The typical Florida setting is exotic.  Altogether, good lightweight reading material for summer vacations or anytime.  ;-)	2001-07-02
US	50923931	R2QI9GUED33HDB	048640885X	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Slavery, identity, and injustice.	This book is considered one of Mark Twain's &quot;Mississippi&quot; writings.  The setting is Dawson's Landing, Missouri in the 1850s.  There is a melodramatic surface plot that seems rather trite by modern standards.  The story revolves around switched identities and solving a murder by the fledgling science of fingerprinting.  Mark Twain's celebrated acerbic wit is in evidence, but mainly in the chapter heading quotes from Pudd' nHead Wilson's calendar of daily observations and homespun philosophy rather than in the novel itself.  In addition, the book  portrays 19th century American slavery.  The slave woman Roxy, speaking in a heavy dialect, is the catalyst that sets the critical events in motion.  The injustice of racism is the underlying theme of the book.  Twain refrains from preaching a social justice sermon, but the inferences are there.  Pudd'nHead Wilson is a country lawyer with no clients.  To pass time, he dabbles in one experiment or another, and enjoys fingerprinting the local citizens.  Wilson resembles a 19th century version of Jimmy Stewart's &quot;everyman&quot; in films.  Although a minor work, the novel is interesting as an example of Mark Twain's other writing beyond &quot;Tom Sawyer&quot; and &quot;Huck Finn.&quot;  <br />The Dover Thrift Editions are an inexpensive alternative to accessing major works of world literature.  The no-frills packaging presents the unabridged text and a brief biographical note on Mark Twain.  ;-)	2001-06-26
US	50923931	R1GKT5R5U5ZMAF	0393313182	595177711	Intervention!: The United States and the Mexican Revolution, 1913-1917	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Pancho and Pershing	Tough as nails history that tells of Mexico during the years of revolution and civil war.  Pancho Villa and John &quot;Blackjack&quot; Pershing's punitive expedition is the focal point of the book.  The author explains that bungling interventions in Mexico by American politicians didn't alter the fact that Mexicans ultimately determined their own governement.  The book is a good introduction to a subject that may be obscure to many American readers, especially 85 years later. Eisenhower does well fleshing out details in the text, in several appendices, and thorough notations. Only a fellow named &quot;Eisenhower&quot; can give one this powerful insider perspective of military and political history. Recommended for multiple reading and further study. ;-)	2001-06-21
US	50923931	R3EC91D9SL8J02	0312033567	111078604	Anatomy of a Murder	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Of Bastards and Angels	Up in Michigan, Laura Manion is raped by Barney Quill.  Her husband, Army Lt. Manion kills Quill in a fit of irresistible impulse.  Enter small town lawyer Paul Biegler.  Assisted by his old friend, Parnell, and his able secretary, Maida, he brings order out of this human chaos.  The story is a blend of sex, crime, and psychology.  Dostoyevsky in the upper mid-West.  It was a best seller in the late '50s.  True to a real-life legal scenario, the pace is slow.  The plot revolves around the investigation, and the trial.  The methods of a defense attorney in building and defending a plausible case are interesting.  Be aware, however, that talking and legal maneuvering comprise the main action of the novel.  The exhaustive discourse and verbose courtroom dialogue get tiresome by the time the book rambles to a conclusion.  The story's hard-hitting punch has been diminished by time.  What was shockingly \\"adult\\" in the late '50s seems mundane today.  Paul Biegler is a likable character, and his self-deprecating sense of humor keeps the story from getting too grim.  The legal defense of \\"irresistible impulse\\" takes some effort to swallow.  Perhaps conscious of the uncertain ethics of his case and his client, Biegler makes a wry observation that the lawyer's world is both of \\"bastards and angels.\\"  The setting is small town America rather than Big City, USA.  The late summer-early fall setting adds earthy flavor to Biegler's quiet interludes of introspection.  As diverting fiction, this novel has value.  Nevertheless, it falls short of a powerhouse. ;-)	2001-06-11
US	50923931	R2QWYY7JZ3D216	047124693X	744199412	Until the Last Trumpet Sounds: The Life of General of the Armies John J. Pershing	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good introduction to the life of Gen. John J. Pershing	This concise biography is interesting as a broad overview of the life and military career of General John J. Pershing.  Gene Smith, much as Walter Lord, typically does an effective job of writing &quot;history lite.&quot;  His books provide salient facts and details without overwhelming the reader with a lengthy narrative. The high points of Pershing's military career, culminating in his role as leader of the AEF during WWI, are described.  Pershing was one of the few voices in 1918 that called for total victory rather than a negotiated peace.  Such a total loss to Germany might have prevented WWII, one of the great &quot;what ifs?&quot; of history.  The text spends what seems an inordinate amount of time detailing the life of Pershing's son and even his two grandsons.  After the war in Europe ends, Pershing becomes a minor character in his own biography.  Perhaps this is because a defining moment in Pershing's life was the asphyxiation death of his wife and daughters in a fire.  The relationship with his surviving son was a top priority for Pershing.  Regardless of the reason, one is left yearning for more military history blood and thunder and more saber rattling details of the career of &quot;Black Jack&quot; Pershing.  Other than the stern professional soldier, not much insight is given of the man and his mindset.  In addition, too many long, convoluted sentences impede a free flowing narrative.  Nevertheless, this biography serves a useful purpose as an entry point to a serious study of its subject.  ;-)	2001-06-06
US	50923931	R1774QQKSZMO66	0553276786	239022842	Lonely on the Mountain: A Novel (Sacketts)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Sacketts ride!	Since Western movies seem out of favor with the film industry, it's nice to find an old-fashioned story of the wild frontier.  After they receive a plea for help from cousin Logan Sackett, Tell Sackett and brothers Orrin and Tyrel join Cap Rountree and a rag-tag group of drovers to drive a herd north along the James River.  In an unusual development, a couple of tough-as-nails women also join the trail drive and punch cattle beside the hardened men.  The trail takes them across the Dakotas toward the Canadian high country.  They encounter hostile Sioux and Blackfeet, ambush and treachery by their enemies, and a buffalo stampede that scatters the longhorns across the wooded plains.<br />Louis L'Amour breathes new life into the familiar elements of the Western story.  The Sackett tales stress family solidarity in the face of adversity. In addition, there is L'Amour's typical emphasis on the freedom of the big sky country and the lure of distant trails.  The setting is rugged and colorful, and a pleasing contrast to the hustle and noise of modern life.  The novel is a quick read that doesn't require deep thought to get the point.  A superior entry from the Master of the West.  ;-)	2001-05-09
US	50923931	R2SNWHOMUP56MB	0848821122	140169498	Daughter of Fu Manchu	Books	2	2	6	N	N	&quot;A brow like Shakespeare, a face like Satan...&quot;	This is another installment of the old mystery-adventure series by Sax Rohmer. After magazine serialization, the complete novel appeared in 1931, years before anyone heard of diversity training or political correctness. Evil Orientals bring the infamous &quot;yellow peril&quot; and threaten the civilized West with world domination. The master criminal, Dr. Fu Manchu, directs their nefarious lethal actions assisted by his alluringly deadly daughter, Fah Lo Suee.<br />Bizarre killings, mysterious disappearances, narrow escapes, and dastardly abductions manage to achieve the dubious distinction of confusing reading. Mainly because the author tries so hard to be cryptic that the action doesn't always make sense in a coherent plot context. Instead of a central plot, we have a series of &quot;adventures.&quot; Diabolical masterminds acting sinister do not automatically create a sustained air of suspense. The most interesting character is Dr. Fu Manchu, but he is relegated to a minor role. This type of escapist reading may be nostalgic to aging baby boomers that recall the paperback Pyramid series of the mid-'60s with the luridly suggestive cover art. We imagine that the Fu Manchu series enjoyed brief popularity with hormone dripping junior high school kids based on the covers alone. The books were even featured in full-page ads in &quot;Famous Monsters of Filmland&quot; magazine. That fond memory recommends this novel. Others should beware of lurking Orientals. ;-)	2001-04-27
US	50923931	R1P5NBV0PDUO6W	059068213X	474007291	Black Diamond: The Story of the Negro Baseball Leagues (Polaris)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Baseball, America, and racism.	The story of race relations in American history is one of lost opportunity.  This concise history of the Negro Baseball Leagues for young adult readers illustrates this basic point.  The book discusses the names, dates, and circumstances of the major figures and events of the flip side of American baseball history. Legendary names such as Josh Gibson, &quot;Cool Papa&quot; Bell, and Satchel Page are just a few of the remarkable players who made important contributions to the game.  Among others, they played for teams with names such as The Homestead Grays, The St. Louis Stars, and The Kansas City Monarchs.  The book also tells the story of owners and managers, such names as Negro National League founder Rube Foster and the tough as nails woman owner of the Newark Eagles, Effa Manley spring to mind.  The book also briefly explains how the infamous Jim Crow tradition brought about the Negro Baseball saga.  In 1947, major league baseball was sucessfully integrated and that spelled the doom of the Negro Baseball leagues.  The text includes an ample number of photographs.  To assist younger readers, and for easy reference purposes, a player profile and time line section is provided at the back of the book.  Underlying the historical text, there is the theme that segregated baseball mirrored the nagging problem of racism in America.  A sense of fair play and even-handed justice demands that talent, skill, and just plain style should be celebrated, regardless of race.  To do otherwise cheats everybody of a rewarding experience.  Imagine if the great players of the Negro Baseball Leagues had the chance to play (with or against) the great players of the major leagues.  Consider the void created by lost opportunity.  ;-)	2001-03-07
US	50923931	R3LW37SX2ILSJ3	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Life vs. Joltin' Joe.	The private life of the man behind the public image can be a stark contrast.  Regardless of Joe DiMaggio's wholesome image of grace, style, and manly courage, doubts and fears plagued him.  He needed constant reassurance that he was the best.  Author Richard Ben Cramer quickly gets on a first name basis with his subject, and writes as if he knows exactly what went on in Joe's head.  Cramer's description of Joe's career as the Yankee Clipper is great baseball history.  Cramer also writes honestly of Joe's dark side.  To DiMaggio, money was the ultimate yardstick of success. His great fear was that someone was unfairly trying to make a buck by exploiting him, both on and off the field.  Frequently, Joe's fears were right on target.  These inner demons made DiMaggio personally unapproachable, and even downright hateful.  But, heck, that didn't bother Joe.  That was exactly the way he wanted it, as long as he was paid top dollar.  Cramer's narrative includes juicy insider details and wry humor.  Beyond baseball, the book examines DiMaggio's relationship with friends, family, and wives, most particularly Marilyn Monroe.  Joe's need to be controlling doomed his marriage to Marilyn.  Ironically, they were well on the road to reconciliation when she died.  After Marilyn is gone, the narrative fast-forwards from her funeral in 1962 to 1989.  This unexplained gap is the only weakness of this otherwise fascinating book.  The last ten years of DiMaggio's life are presented as the final decade of a miserly crank who profits from baseball memorabilia events, for which he insisted on his own unforgiving rules and regulations.  Considering the walls Joe DiMaggio built around himself the author's ability to dig out details is impressive.  Cramer handles a difficult subject very well.  This is highly recommended reading. ;-)	2001-02-28
US	50923931	R43NO1J40J4N7	080411059X	38545449	Thy Neighbor's Wife	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Interesting but dated overview of American sex.	Depending on your outlook, author Gay Talese's rambling social history of sex in America is either X-rated titillation or scholarly and objective reporting of a serious subject that affects virtually everyone.  The author takes the reader through a maze of people and events from the triumphs and tribulations of Hugh Hefner to pornography and the courts, from free-love religious sects of the 19th century to 20th century California communes.  The reader also visits massage parlors and organized mate swapping clubs.  The premise is that everybody behaves sexually, regardless.  Pretending otherwise is a myth perpetuated by the oppressive cycle of American Puritanism handed down by a variety of parental, religious, and legal authorities.  We should just accept our sexuality and be honest with each other, and especially with ourselves.  Although the author refrains from preaching a &quot;if it feels good, do it&quot; sermon, complete sexual freedom is the rather trite theme.  This viewpoint is somewhat dated and reflects the so-called sexual revolution of the '60s and early '70s.  The book was published in 1980 before the AIDs threat was a common concern.  Some hot button issues as abortion and homosexuality are ignored.  Nevertheless, it is an interesting book on a controversial subject. ;-)	2001-02-01
US	50923931	R1YJD4NVH48LJ8	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Vivid narrative of a grim story.	&quot;Night&quot; is Elie Wiesel's autobiographical short novel of life and death in a concentration camp.  There is little plot and character development.  Part of the terrible treatment of Jews by the Nazi thugs is denial of identity.  The men become nameless, almost faceless, walking corpses.  Each prisoner has their number tattooed into the flesh.  Elie is A-7713.  Death is postponed by ingesting food rations and remaining silent.  As Elie's father lay dying, a tough-minded fellow prisoner admonishes Elie to eat the food he saved.  Giving it to the dying man is futile.  Elie's first duty is to save his own life by whatever means necessary.  Survival transcends family relationships.  The cost of survival combined with the death of innocence is the theme.  The injustice suffered by the Jews is horribly real, but not a revelation.  Enduring Auschwitz and Buchenwald scars the mind forever.  Survival does not mean victory.  After liberation by the American Army, the daylight of Elie's life changed into perpetual night.  Elie loses his faith after he suffers mind-numbing horrors in tandem.  Elie rages against the seeming indifference of Heaven.  His dedication to the Eternal disappears as the black smoke curls above the ovens of Auschwitz.  How can a just God seem to stay idle before such godless acts?  This is not light reading, and &quot;Lest we forget&quot; is hardly original.  However, as new generations drift frivolously along, a reminder of basic truth is appropriate.  Read and ponder.  ;-)	2001-01-17
US	50923931	RBMQBT6Q93KF3	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fiction with a prophetic overtone.	This novel tells of the Rapture. This signals the end of the world. Briefly stated, before the end of time, Jesus will quietly claim the true church of believers and take them to Himself in Heaven. The book describes this eerie event in terms of those left behind in the world. The thoughtful persons left behind begin a spiritual quest to understand their fate. The Tribulation period begins with the coming of the personified Anti-Christ and his impact on an unsuspecting world.<br />This book examines the grim consequences of unbelief, and the lack of true spiritual commitment. Christians may disagree about a literal Rapture, but a day of the Lord is certain. The novel stresses the solid Biblical teaching that all are sinners, and all need the Savior. Finally, all are justified by grace through faith in the atoning suffering, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Numbering our days and applying our hearts to wisdom and understanding of God is the theme of this fictionalized end-time story.<br />The book is smoothly written. Christian fiction can include unintentional humor. One exasperated character angrily exclaims, \\"Darn it!\\" A waffling husband considers the feasibility of an affair, but doesn't act on his impulse before Heaven intervenes. There is some violence related to plot developments. Considering the negative Christian bias of many movies and TV programs, a positive portrayal of the urgent need for repentance and forgveness is welcome. Read and ponder. ;-)	2001-01-02
US	50923931	R3AQHB4BPIQTC5	0140441840	7474548	Resurrection (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The Agony of Redemption.	Tolstoy's last major novel summarizes his personal philosophy. Nekhludov finds himself approaching middle age burdened by guilt. Ten years ago, he seduced the serving girl, Maslova. Maslova's shame degenerated to prostitution. After Maslova is unjustly condemned for murder, Nekhludov decides to intervene on her behalf. He seeks to make amends for his sin and his privileged life by an idealistic binge that manages to miss the point. Through Nekhludov's quest for personal redemption, the reader learns the hypocrisy of Old Russia. Russian society, of course, symbolizes all societies in all eras that wage the eternal struggle. According to Tolstoy, the solution is not idealistic extremes, but the practice of true spiritual love. One on one with the world around us. True religion, as articulated by Christ, that transcends the limited scope of the blatant self-interest of the organized church, political parties, social engineering, and legal maneuvering. <br />The novel is a grim portrait of the suffering of the poor, in spirit and in fact. Readers who recall the grand historical scope of &quot;War and Peace&quot; and the poignant personal drama of &quot;Anna Karenina&quot; will be struck by the modest presentation of this book. The plot development is minimal, and mainly consists of Nekhludov's interventions on Maslova's behalf with a variety of legal, military, and political persons. This privileged structure, contrasted with the suffering of the prison inmates, leaves a deep impression. Tolstoy's goal is spiritual maturity, and not revolutionary incitement. He writes graphically and realistically of the world. This novel was banned for a time in Edwardian England. It is an eloquent albeit modest summary to Tolstoy's career as a thinker.	2000-12-19
US	50923931	R3LZPGPMVBXI8M	0553276778	312204549	The Lonely Men: The Sacketts: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Tell Sackett rides again.	Orrin Sackett's treacherous wife sends Tell Sackett on a false rescue mission. He and three of his drifter friends pursue the elusive Apache to save Orrin's kidnapped child.<br />This is a basic white men vs. Apache tale. There are plot twists the reader can easily see coming. The action is fast and violent. The writing is colorful. Tell Sackett's first person narrative rambles in places, but that adds to the Western aura. One can almost visualize Tell weaving engrossing tales to listeners around a crackling campfire. There is irony in men facing suffering and death because of loneliness and a woman's deceit. The &quot;Lonely Men&quot; of the title refers to the four men who band together because they have nothing else of meaning in their lives. The Apaches are portrayed as fierce killers, but also as honorable men who respect a worthy enemy.<br />Louis L'Amour instills new life into the familiar elements of the Western story. His novels and stories stress character and atmosphere over the routine plot elements of &quot;a man, a horse, and a gun.&quot; As with many of his novels, this book serves the purpose of good, lightweight reading. It doesn't require in-depth analysis to get the point. Enjoy the ride. ;-)	2000-11-01
US	50923931	R2KTJ1MAMPTBF4	1571570233	953893938	Horn of the Hunter: The Story of an African Safari	Books	4	39	41	N	N	A Writer on Safari	Robert Ruark's chronicle of his African safari in the 1950s.  This is good reading for both outdoor buffs and readers of a more literary type.  Ruark avoids the pitfall of turning his book into an extended article for &quot;Field and Stream.&quot;  Aside from the details of the big-game hunt, he sprinkles his narrative with recollections of his WWII combat experience, musings on the literary world of New York, books, movies about Africa, and life in America.  The focal point of the book is the daily experience of fighting the African environment in the pursuit of the elusive prey.  The descriptions of the wildlife are thrilling as the hunting party tracks across the primeval plains.  Ruark gives full attention to the discomforts of safari life and the doubtful sanity of those who submit themselves to this type of &quot;recreation.&quot;  The killing is graphically described and not for the squeamish.  Animal rights activists should steer clear of this book.<br />Ruark has great fun describing himself as an Ernest Hemingway &quot;wannabe.&quot;  Comparisons to Hemingway's &quot;Green Hills of Africa&quot; are inevitable.  Ruark is more self-deprecating than Ernest Hemingway, and can see the outrageous humor of it all.  The white hunter guide, Harry Selby, falls short of the Allan Quartermain ideal.  Selby is afraid of snakes and scorpions, and manages to get the safari lost at least once.  Just as Hemingway, Ruark takes his wife, Jenny, along on safari.  She handles the discomforts very well, and doesn't wimp out.<br />This book won't be studied a 100 years from now in American Lit. classes, but it's diverting reading.  It recalls the macho standards of a different era.  Ruark's reputation has faded since his heyday in the '50s and early '60s.  For those who remember, this book is an interesting footnote to his literary career.  ;-)	2000-10-27
US	50923931	R1PX6PO2N2G3I3	0883659565	898344682	The Death of a President: November 20-November 25	Books	4	75	85	N	N	A Quaint Perspective and a Grim Reminder.	This book was published in 1967.  Reading it today gives the reader an opportunity to contrast the perspective of the mid-'60s with current information.  The subject matter is treated with great reverence.  At  times, objectivity suffers.  The book is very close to fawning in its  treatment of Jackie Kennedy, for example.  It is also very apparent that  one who admired John Kennedy wrote the book.  Again, there is that  perspective thing.  The ravages of time have taken its toll on the martyred  president.  More of the unsavory details of JFK's personal life are now a  matter of public information.  Jackie Kennedy stepped down from her  pedestal and became &quot;Jackie O&quot; in the late '60s.  The Kennedy  aura in general has suffered.<br />Equal to the book's admiration of John  Kennedy is its utter contempt for Lee Harvey Oswald.  Great effort is made  to disparage Oswald as the most contemptible of losers.  Oswald is  portrayed as arguably history's greatest mediocrity.  A nonentity who  forced his way into the history books by a despicable and cowardly act.   The book openly regrets that Oswald's memory will be forever enmeshed with  JFK's.<br />William Manchester takes the reader through the bleak events of  that long November weekend in 1963.  The trip to Dallas, the motorcade, the  assassination, the hospital, the plane trip back to Washington, the  funeral, the inside details of the friction between the Kennedy and Johnson  factions, the worldwide reaction, and Oswald's unplanned televised  execution by Jack Ruby are all discussed in meticulous detail.  This book  is a grim portrait of a turning point in American history.  Regardless of  one's politics, this single event marked the death of innocence and naivete  that was typical of much of post WWII America, even as late as 1963.  After  President Kennedy's murder, the country was caught in an escalation of  violence and death for much of the rest of the 1960s, typified in that  dreadful year, 1968.<br />This is an exhaustive book on a grim topic.  The  adoring treatment of JFK and the Kennedy family is quaint.  In some ways,  the book is an antique, illustrating the temper of a bygone era.  Reading  this book is not an uplifitng experience, but it is a very effective memoir  of this major event in American history.  The book can be especially  recommended for those too young to remember.  Just a warning to other  readers: reading this book can add to one's reflective midlife melancholy  as one considers where we have been, and also the road left before us. The  cadence of the muffled drums that escorted the funeral procession to  Arlington remains in the mind for days after finishing this book.	2000-07-27
US	50923931	R2HRU0WPFIK4ZF	0811720896	556457621	They Met at Gettysburg: a Step-by-step Retelling of the Battle with Maps, Photos, Firsthand Accounts	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A Study in Command.	As Civil War histories go, this book is unusual. One could expect from the title a blow by blow account of the battle of Gettysburg. Instead, what is offered is a study in leadership contrasts between Robert E. Lee and George Meade. Lee is presented as perhaps America's greatest general fighting his worst battle. Meade is portrayed as an uninspired mediocrity that benefited greatly from his corps commanders and fortuitous circumstances.<br />Much of the familiar litany of Gettysburg lore is mentioned, but not re-hashed in great detail. J.E.B. Stuart's failure to provide timely reconnaissance, James Longstreet's lack of enthusiasm for Lee's offensive strategy and tactics, Richard Ewell's failure to secure the high ground on Cemetery Hill and Culps Hill are briefly examined. In addition, the inability of either Ewell or A. P. Hill to replace Stonewall Jackson as an effective corps commander is discussed. These facts provide the framework that gave Lee the impetus to strike &quot;those people&quot; (as he called the Union Army) in his own way. The ghost of Stonewall Jackson, who crossed over the river at Chancellorsville, haunts the scene. The pairing of Lee and Jackson caused some of the most spectacular victories of the Confederate Army, and Stonewall's loss was still keenly felt. One can only imagine what Jackson would have done with Lee's order to attack Little Round Top, or the Union center along Cemetery Ridge. <br />While Lee aggressively yearned to strike the enemy, Meade hesitated. At one point, Meade gave serious consideration to a retreat. Finally, he let his corps commanders vote the idea down. After the failure of Pickett's charge, Meade failed to take the initiative to counterattack Lee and deliver the fatal blow that could have ended the war.<br />The material is presented objectively, without particular bias. The book openly admires Robert E. Lee, but so do many. The brutal fact that Gettysburg may very well be Lee's worst fought battle is not glossed over. The failure of some of Lee's lieutenants to show their best effort is not used as an excuse to cover &quot;Marse Robert's&quot; errors. The reader doesn't hang on every word, but reading of the various commanders' abilities and limitations is informative. In addition, there is an abundance of illustrations and detailed maps that assist the reader in following some of the technical details. This Civil War book  has value for the serious Civil War buff.	2000-07-24
US	50923931	R6YWBKJ2P3PBH	0553278649	582950407	The High Graders	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Second string effort from Louis L'Amour	Mike Shevlin rides into Rafter Crossing, and starts poking around to learn the truth of Eli Patterson's death.  Patterson was Shevlin's surrogate father, and he was a peaceful man that didn't believe in violence.  Shevlin  knows that things don't add up when he hears that Eli was killed fair and  square in a gunfight.  Shevlin also discovers that dishonest local mine  managers are stealing high-grade ore from the out-of-state owners.  One of  these offsite owners is Laine Tennison, who asks Shevlin for help.  Most of  the town, including Shevlin's old friend, is in on the scheme.  There is  also a war between cattlemen and the miners over land preservation.<br />This  is a second string Louis L'Amour Western novel.  The familiar hallmarks  that distinguish his best writing are absent.  The typical emphasis on the  freedom of the big sky country is lacking, and the lure of distant trails  is missing.  The story gets downright claustrophobic inside the mines.  The  story is told in the third person form.  L'Amour's best work (e.g., the  Sacketts series) is told in the first person narrative form.  This allows  the reader to really get inside the head of the main character.  There is  some action and suspense, but the plot rather plods along.  Dedicated Louis  L'Amour fans may be pleased, but other readers should know this is a lesser  effort by the Master of the West.	2000-06-27
US	50923931	R32JRO2EX3NBBC	0316360678	44102070	The Dark Side of Camelot	Books	4	13	18	N	N	The New Frontier Revisited	Several themes permeate this work of investigative journalism.  The arrogance of wealth, the conceit of position, and the mendacity of politicians stagger the casual reader.  It is complete folly to elevate any  president to the mythic realms of &quot;Camelot.&quot;  Presidents should  be viewed as three-dimensional human beings subject to the common limits of  that predicament.<br />John Kennedy's personal life was not circumspect, and  his political methods not always clean and honorable.  It is astonishing by  current standards, but his personal peccadilloes had the tacit approval of  the news media and the U.S. government agencies (i.e., the FBI) that  enabled him to continue his reckless double life after becoming president.   The Kennedy family had the money and influence to achieve power.  According  to this book, the sons perpetuated the sins of the father.  The people  described in the book viewed reckless personal behavior an entitlement of  their family name.  It is a sharp contrast to the familiar public image of  grace, refinement, and charm of the Kennedy White House that was typical of  the early '60s.<br />Differentiating between fact and rumor is the challenge  of reading investigative journalism, especially a book that tells of the  moral turpitude of a major public figure.  The author's research is  exhaustive and builds a compelling case.  The lengthy footnotes and other  digressions documenting the authenticity of the sources can annoy the  reader by disrupting a smooth narrative.  The Freedom of Information Act  made vital records available in the '90s that were off limts in the '60s.   These sources lend credibility to the book's assertions.  The dismayed  disillusionment of the Secret Service agents is easy to believe, for  example, after they observed the fraternity house behavior of JFK and his  cronies that occurred in the White House when the First Lady was out of  town.  The book's tone is objective in spite of the tabloid level  topics.<br />For comic relief there is the description of the Kennedy  brothers' feud with Fidel Castro.  JFK and Robert Kennedy viewed the Bay of  Pigs fiasco as a personal affront to the Kennedy aura.  They cast Castro in  the role of the scruffy villain, not an unreasonable image for him.  The  CIA's fantastic retaliation plots are the stuff of some hack writer's spy  thriller.  The &quot;Spy vs Spy&quot; antics eventually came to nothing,  but the bemused reader can only wonder how the U.S. government could  consider such absurdities.   Exploding fountain pens!  Good  grief!<br />Reading this book is both fascinating and repulsive, a very  unsettling experience that destroys the &quot;Camelot&quot; image of the  Kennedy era.  The central theme of John F. Kennedy's morally ambiguous  personal life is riveting.  Let the reader beware!	2000-06-15
US	50923931	RRVYG7924SWXA	0380713942	936647871	A History of the Twentieth Century: Volume 2, 1933-1951	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Crucible of Conflict:  Hitler and His Legacy	The main focus of this book is Adolf Hitler:  his diabolical ability, his crimes against humanity, and his aftermath.  Hitler is the undisputed great villain of the 20th century, and did more than any other person to  influence the course of modern history.  This account begins in 1933 as  Hitler settles in as the leader of Germany.  The 1930s unfold with Germany  taking adjoining territories, Japan wreaking early havoc in China, and the  Spanish Civil War raging.  In Britain, Neville Chamberlain and the  appeasement supporters are unwittingly enabling Hitler, and Franklin  Roosevelt is refuting totalitarianism everywhere by exalting a healthy  democratic republic in the United States, the Great Depression  notwithstanding.  If Hitler is the great villain of the 20th century, then  Winston Churchill and FDR are the great heroes.  Churchill had the clear  vision to resist the encroaching Nazi menace from the start, and Roosevelt  walked a fine line of secretly supporting Britain during the early days of  WWII while maintaining a posture of public neutrality.<br />The heart of the  book is the long mid-section describing WWII.  The range of the subject is  so broad it is only possible to hit the high points.  Critical events such  as the Normandy invasion or the atomic bomb are dealt with in a paragraph  or a few pages.  There is conspicuous attention given to body counts and  death tolls. Casualty counts from bombing raids, both in the air and on the  ground, are meticulously recorded.  This is a vivd illustration of the true  cost of war.  The deliberate mass execution of the Jews by the Nazis,  documented throughout this section of the book, adds to the horrific  mounting death toll.  Anyone who doubts the truth of the Holocaust should  consider the Nazi's &quot;final solution&quot; at the death camps, and the  mounds of bodies discovered by Allied armies as they advanced into the  heart of Germany.  The book also gives an interesting account of the war in  Russia,a less familiar aspect of WWII to many American readers.<br />After  the war, the specter of communism envelops China and Eastern Europe.  In  Southeast Asia, an obscure insurgent named Ho Chi Minh is busy.  Israel is  founded, and the first Arab-Israeli war is fought.  India gains  independence from Britain, and Gandhi, one of history's great proponents of  non-violence, is assassinated.  The United States and Russia explore the  effective use of atomic energy, both for military and peacetime purposes.   The bloody Korean conflict begins.  <br />This book is of value to anyone who  enjoys reading good history.  This is a narrative history, and many events  are mentioned only briefly before the text moves on to the next subject.   It is a good over-view of world history, told mainly from a European  perspective. Readers expecting an in-depth analysis should look elsewhere.   However, this is not mindless recitation of historical dates and events.   The human interest side of history is also given adequate treatment.  The  suffering of the refugee, the displaced person, and the outcast is treated  sensitively.  Casual readers should be careful of this book because of the  time commitment it takes to stay the course.  Minus the maps, notes, and  index, the paperback edition is over 900 pages of smaller case print.   Recommended reading for history buffs.	2000-05-11
US	50923931	R32RCQROIM3ATG	0963678035	362250175	Civil War Stories of Missouri	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Local history by anecdote.	This book seriously needs editorial proofreading and correction.  There are clumsy sentences, and spelling errors abound.  Paragraphs are sometimes disjointed.  The subject material is anecdotally presented in a helter-skelter manner that is beyond logical progression.  It reminds one  of the unfocused reminiscing of an elderly grandparent.  For some, that may  add to the book's peculiar esoteric interest.  For others, it can grow to  be an annoyance.  Many events are described with no particular historical  point.  The typical emphasis is on the obscure minutiae of little known  people and their actions, rather than on major historical events.  On the  positive side, there is some information related to the Battle of  Lexington, Bloody Bill Anderson, Jayhawkers, and other Missouri Civil War  history that is interesting to read.  One just has to look beyond the  book's technical flaws and its other limitations.  It's fair to say this  book may have some slight interest for dedicated local Missouri history  fans.  The casual reader, however, should beware.	2000-04-24
US	50923931	R124O6I9IH9QH9	0963678035	362250175	Civil War Stories of Missouri	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Poor editing ruins this book.	This book is in dire need of editorial proofreading and correcting. Sentences are disjointed, words are spelled incorrectly, and the writing, frankly, doesn't always make much sense.  The author wanders around the  subject matter in a way that makes the reader believe there was no outline  or organized plan of the book.  It reminded this reader of listening to the  mental ramblings of an aged grandparent who knows some local history, but  has trouble staying coherent and focused.  Events in the book are described  without making a relevant or historically interesting point.  On the  positive side, there is some anecdotal information of the Battle of  Lexington, Bloody Bill Anderson, and other people and events of Missouri  Civil War history that is mildly interesting to read.  Much of the  material, however, refers to persons so minor and events so trivial that  the reader is left wondering why the author considered the anecdote  historically relevant. The book's technical flaws, and its unfocused  presentation doom it to dull reading.	2000-03-29
US	50923931	RNXM5OV34QPRH	0553276794	245449332	The Man from the Broken Hills: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Riding for the brand.	Growing weary of the Outlaw Trail, Milo Talon (whose mother's maiden name is Sackett) starts riding for the brand with the men of the Stirrup-Iron outfit.  Riders in this part of Texas take careful measure of each other  because valuable young stock is getting rustled from the T Bar T, the HF  Connected, the Circle B, and the Stirrup-Iron.  Wandering cowpokes are  treated with extreme caution.  Talon encounters an old enemy, Rossiter, in  the Stirrup-Iron owner.  Further complicating Talon's life is a mysterious  gunman inexplicably on his trail, a killer longhorn called Old Brindle, and  the fiery tempered Ann Timberly, whose father owns the T Bar T.  Besides  cattle and strong, silent men, Texas grows a flock of beautiful women.   Blonde and bratty Barby Ann is Rossiter's daughter.  A box social at the  Rock Springs schoolhouse introduces Talon to a shy girl named Lisa.  And we  should definitely mention the wonderfully enigmatic China Benn.<br />Louis  L'Amour does an excellent job of breathing new life into the familiar  elements of the western story.  His knowledge of the Old West is extensive,  and it serves him very well.  His western stories are rich in authentic  atmosphere.  L'Amour writes enthusiastically of the lure of distant trails,  the freedom of the big sky country, and the Code of the West without  sounding trite and over-influenced by movie and TV westerns.  His books are  a fast read that allows the reader to escape from the toil, tension, and  clamor of contemporary life.  Good reading.	2000-03-23
US	50923931	R1WWQG9WG4NHPO	0460874977	258130216	Phineas Finn (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A charming story of a bygone era.	Graham Greene writes in one of his novels of a troubled person who relaxes from work-related stress by reading Anthony Trollope on the weekends.  Why?  Nothing happens.  The writing is peaceful, serene, and very  proper.<br />&quot;Phineas Finn&quot; is the second volume in the famous  &quot;Palliser&quot; series, and it is a typical Anthony Trollope novel.   Trollope's style is so refined and polished that one really doesn't mind  reading a 700+ page book just to learn of the commonplace events that serve  the purpose of plot and character development in his novels.  This book  will not give one any great insight into the human mind or soul, but it  will entertain with its delightful description of Victorian manners and  morals.  As seems typical of many 19th century English novels the  triumvirate of love, marriage, and money drives the main events of the  story.  The mating dance of love is primly and at times ironically  portrayed as it plays out in drawing rooms, dinner parties, and visits to  country estates.  Phineas Finn, upon completing his education, is offered  the opportunity to run for Parliament, and gets elected.  Considerable  space in the novel is dedicated to the nuts and bolts of 19th century  British politics (a possible drawback for contemporary American readers).   Members of the House of Commons serve their districts without compensation.   Phineas, alas, is not wealthy.  This lack of personal wealth is the  catalyst for many of Phineas' subsequent actions.  Phineas embarks on a  search for love, a suitable wife, and financial means.  He is drawn to  several women.  Mary Flood Jones, Lady Laura Standish, Violet Effingham,  and Madame Marie Goesler at different times engage his romantic interest.   The most interesting of these women is Marie Goesler, an independently  minded widow of means.  She is German, her late husband was Austrian, and  many of the stuffy Victorian rules about a woman's proper place don't suit  her personality.  As this is only the second volume of the Palliser series,  we will see more of Madame Goesler.  She has already enchanted the Duke of  Omnium, an elderly nobleman who is Plantagenet Palliser's uncle.  Palliser  and his wife, Lady Glencora, are the main characters of the series, but  only play a minor role in this book.  <br />&quot;Phineas Finn&quot; has the  delighful charm of a fine old painting or a piece of carefully preserved  antique china.  It's light weight, but entertaining.  It charms with its  grace.  The pace is leisurely.  Reading this novel is an escape in time to  another world.  A world apart from cell phones, cable TV, and all the rest  of noisy modern life.  One can quietly relax while dozing in the twilight  of this peaceful book.	2000-03-22
US	50923931	R17QCVQ0MGT9KH	0380761556	183984686	001: War in Europe: Blitzkrieg	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good introduction to WWII's early days.	So much has been written of the latter part of WWII (i.e., D-Day and beyond) that the very early days of the war in Europe have become obscured by time, especially for Americans.  Edwin P. Hoyt competently presents the  salient facts of the war's early days without overwhelming the reader with  superfluous detail. The weak response of the West to Hitler's territorial  aggression in Czechslovakia and other places is one of the enduring lessons  of WWII.  As it turns out, Germany wasn't really in a position to start a  full-scale war.  Hitler persisted because he counted on the reluctance of  the West to oppose his efforts.  Even at this early stage of the war,  Hitler and the German generals worked at cross-purposes.<br />This short book  (barely 240 pages in the paperback edition) tells of the invasion of  Poland, the war at sea during the so-called &quot;phony war&quot; phase,  the invasion of Norway, the invasion of Holland, and the first part of the  battle for France.  It concludes with the early part of the Dunkirk  evacuation.  The book doesn't delve into the ground-level experience of  common soldiers, but it does quote from diaries and memoirs of generals and  politicians, as needed.  Guderian and Rommel are two of the more  recognizable names participating in these early events.  The reader gets  the facts of warfare without the first-hand sights and feel of battle found  in the work of Stephen Ambrose, for example.<br />There is informative  material about the development of the submarine and tank as efficient  weapons of war.  The development of the coordinated effort of air and  ground forces into the vaunted &quot;Blitzkrieg&quot; of modern (1939-1940)  lightning warfare is described.  Although this book doesn't reach the  towering stature of the more familiar histories of WWII, it is very  worthwhile and informative reading.	2000-03-21
