US	50923544	R1YPC7J946HEHX	0451209044	637759864	Tribune: A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	2	17	32	N	N	I came, I saw, I desired a refund	Ah, a bona fide bad book, I was starting to fear that I'd lost my touch for picking the very worst novel on the shelf. First off, the publishers should only be charging half price, as they've very kindly spoiled the first 200 pages for you with their description- and if they can succinctly set up all those plot threads in just a few paragraphs why does it take Larkin so tediously long?<br />The Tribune leads you to believe it had a lot of story potential at one time, until the author decided to essentially novelize a bad tv movie, complete with requisite character clichés. It's got blood, sex, swords, and horses and it will still bore you to tears with the relentless predictability that it offers. Will Lucius win over his Celtic troops? Are all characters that disagree with him villains? Will that annoying, precocious kid end up saving the day? Gee, you think?<br />Most annoying is the overall writing style. Larkin confuses honor with brains and gives Lucius one but not the other, making him righteous but not smart or even remotely likable; the character is incapable of talking about his horse without the preface \\"My Spanish mare, Dancer\\", until you start to wonder if he's reminding you or himself. The two big 'surpises' are completely cheesy, with the main villain describing his entire plan in ridiculous detail to the captured hero and then some divine intervention (literally) to get the story out of the dead-end it had been written into; the last two pages should be torn out and destroyed, unread, upon purchase. The dialog and ensuing melodrama of the love story is straight out of a bad bodice ripper and the sex as written would take about a minute and a half in real time, from foreplay to finish; I felt very sorry for the one-dimensional heroine. Battle scenes, ostensibly the whole point of writing military fiction, are confusing messes where you have no sense of where people are, how the terrain is set up, and what exactly is happening. <br />The Tribune combines the worst bits of its genre and the end result is a bland collage of triteness, with plot twists on par with Scooby-Doo and all the historical accuracy of an episode of Xena: Warrior Princess.	2004-02-23
US	50923544	R3F31PNQL5VGBM	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Little suspense but a lot of fun	Okay so anyone who starts out to pen a tale of the eruption of Vesuvius is severely crippled in the 'unbelievable twist' department but since the majority of people who choose to read this are going to be aware of it the task is really to create an interesting story before the inevitable happens. By and large, Pompeii succeeds.<br />The characters are fairly obvious-- 'hero', 'love interest', 'traitor', 'corrupt politico'-- and show little growth but since the story only takes place over four days I prefer it this way rather than have Harris try and cram in sudden, miraculous conversions. It's the plot that's important and the discovery of political skullduggery, bribery, and broken waterworks running perpendicular to a major catastrophe lends a lot of anticipation to the story. I was sneaking in chapters during class because I couldn't wait to see how subplots were going to turn out.<br />Harris never bogs us down with overly technical engineering details or geological facts (although I did skip the uninteresting quotes at the head of each chapter) and seems to know exactly how much info is exactly to enough to make us understand what's going on without boring us to tears. All the wonderful little details of Roman baths, banquets, and even fisheries add an extra layer of depth. I never even knew wealthier citizens kept their own fisheries, let alone prized some creatures so highly they decorated them with gold and diamonds.<br />The love between Antellius and Corelia does ring false, or at least severely premature, but in an age where women were chattel it's entirely probable a girl would fasten on to a total stranger rather than want to amrry someone old enough to be her father to maintain the family's wealth. I saw Corelia as a modern woman born into the wrong time (a nice change from the self-sacrificing wife or salty mistress these books usually offer) who found Antellius exciting and romantic because he stood up to her father and her family didn't approve. When you're young and oppressed you always embrace the rebellious choice.<br />I'm baffled by all the complaints about knowing exactly where the story was going, considering just looking at the cover tells you how it's going to end. Did you think the volcano wasn't going to blow up after all? This is clearly labeled 'a novel' not a mystery, a thriller, or even a novel of suspense. If you prefer improbable surprises to historical fiction I suggest you go browse that section but for an entertaing read about Roman life along with some action and intrigue this is an pleasant selection.	2004-01-07
US	50923544	R1RF4TIO6OCHD9	0399150706	639168059	For Matrimonial Purposes	Books	3	7	8	N	N	'Matrimonial' bliss ruined by final pages	I like to torment myself by reading chick-lit. Every time I swear I'll never pick up another one somebody recommends a book they swear actually lives up to the hype and I'll devote a few hours to that rather than, say, The Iliad. I wouldn't mind if the books actually wound up being good but I am so sick of the constant repetition of 'sassy, shallow heroine in the big city looks for love while furthering her journalism career' (Why do all single girls in books work for magazines or newspapers? Are minimum wage girls not worthy of love or just not interesting enough to write a book about?) and this book made for a nice, only slightly different change. Because it's set around Indian culture, the fact that someone's life can be made so miserable by virtue of not having a man makes complete sense for once.<br />Highly readable and only nominally insulting, it revolves almost entirely around not meeting up with the expectations of society and all the emptiness that comes from not fitting in, even when you're not sure if it's what you really want to do or not. Anju's struggle to choose between accepting her place in a man-centric culture or to continue to hold out for something better actually made me very sympathetic towards her, not an easy feat with these novels. She does tend to see-saw from one extreme (running off to New York) to the other (ditching her career for a month so her mother can find her a man) which left me wondering if her problems weren't something a little counseling and some strong anti-depressants couldn't fix.<br />Just as things start to look up and you you think Anju has finally found herself the author decides it's more important this book sells rather than makes sense and so shoehorns in a last minute 'happy ever after' to appeal to the lowest commmon denominator. The problem is it's blatantly tacked on and all the internal issues you think Anju has dealt with for good all come back and make her look weak and stupid. The guy she hooks up with treats her the same way her parents do and she reacts accordingly (ditches her new life to start all over again just to land a husband); she overcomes one stifling, controlling relationship only to trade it in for another. But apparently that's okay, because she gets a beautiful wedding out of the deal. The whole story of sorting herself out is ditched in order to make the man, the parents, and presumably the typical chick lit audience happy. It rings completely false and only serves to make you annoyed at being so obviously pandered to.eats her the same way her parents do and she reacts accordingly (ditches her new life to start all over again just to land a husband); she overcomes one stifling, controlling relationship only to trade it in for another. But apparently that's okay, because she gets a beautiful wedding out of the deal. The whole story of sorting herself out is ditched in order to make the man, the parents, and presumably the typical chick lit audience happy. It rings completely false and only serves to make you annoyed at being so obviously pandered to.	2003-12-31
US	50923544	RK9CHUZZQPKBN	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Too many cookies spoil the plot	Sunshine starts out wonderfully, with an interesting narrator, a fully-fleshed history, and a nice supporting cast but somewhere between part 1 and the rest of the novel things seem to fall apart.<br />The heroine discovers an amazing new superpower at every turn, on top of being a brilliant cook (And as much as I adore puttering around my kitchen even I found the over-obsession with desserts tedious), and of course, she's instantly the best at everything she tries. So perfect is she that McKinley decides to completely abandon that supporting cast until Sunshine needs them for something, protection, or whatever. There is something vaguely unsettling about her boyfriend and many hints are dropped but there is no follow-up and what would have made for something far more interesting than the silly government stuff that replaces it it is just an aggravating loose end. To create such interesting characters at the outset and then do nothing with them is either sloppy or just setting up for a sequel. The problem is I know McKinley is a great fantasy author and not the usual kind, merely clutttering up the pages with characters and plots to milk one decent idea into an endless series of cliffhanger novels and so this is doubly frustrating coming from her pen.<br />The narration style is both a blessing and a curse. Some of the heaps of expositon are made more interesting with Sunshine's particular voice but her need to reiterate lines that were perfectly strong on their own just deaden the impact. For 200 plus pages we're treated to a rather prudish narrator, where the worst swear she uses is 'bloody', and suddenly there's a some blurry glimpses of sex scenes and I get bashed over the head with porn-speak. To go from 'gosh' and an insistence on using 'pee' in place of piss to that was so jarringly uncharacteristic it yanked me completely out of the story. It was like reading a young adult novel and being smacked in the face with a rolled up Penthouse letters column.<br />The climax was short, a complete letdown, considering the many pages we have devoted to Sunshine dealing with the death she feels is so imminent. As in the far superior 'Spindle's End' the ultimate last battle depends very heavily on the visual and would work much better in a film than a book. On the whole, it was really disappointing, especially considering it had such a good opening act and enough tantalizing hints to keep me reading but the more I realized all the clues about other people were leading towards dead ends the more getting towards the finish became a chore. As a short story it would have been great, as a novel there was way too much padding. A massive misstep for an otherwise enjoyable author 2 1/2 stars.	2003-12-30
US	50923544	R2HOTOYI3ITSIB	051513239X	461044774	The Music of the Spheres	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Discordant 'Music'	Music of the Spheres is billed as cross between a psychological thriller and a gory murder mystery set in 18th century England: think the Alienist (right down to the blatantly similar cover) meets Jack the Ripper. The problem is Redfern is so well-researched she feels the need to throw every single bit of it into the mix, bogging down the story with unnecessary accompaniment when it could have stood very well on its own.<br /><br />The astronomy angle is an interesting one and, having suffered through a class on it this year it's nice to be able to utilize what little I remember; it makes for an original twist in what could have been an average 'spot the homicidal maniac' story. On the flipside the spy subplot quickly becomes tedious, even devoting several pages to a firefight in France featuring characters we've never seen before or will again, and I found myself anxiously skimming because I was lingering in suspense about the murders.<br /><br />Characters are nicely rendered in varying shades of gray, which might not sit well with those who like their heroes whitewashed and their villains detestable but makes much more sense in the world they're inhabiting. Nobody here is without a whiff of scandal or an unpleasant habit which leaves them all vulnerable to manipulation that heightens the tension considerably. Absey's obsession with a prostitute who resembles his dead daughter makes him seem tormented but the fact that he neglects his wife and son and then has sex with the girl hits several sour notes. I can't think of many people who will root for a man after implications that he harbors lusts for a daughter who runs off to become a streetwalker; in an age where many molested girls regularly wind up strippers and porn stars those scenes left me feeling uneasy.<br /><br />The finale is what utterly ruins all of the author's painstaking setup. Culminating in a dark crescendo (I'm sorry! I'll stop) of blood, death, and wholesale cast slaughter you're left feeling more shell-shocked than satisfied. Judging by what is revealed it was less than likely that any of the guilty parties would be brought to justice but killing off just about everyone in the novel doesn't make me any happier. I could live with people not being sent to jail but here they are punished to the extreme, even the somewhat innocent ones. It tries to leave you with the tiniest speck of hope on the last page but by then you'll be too numb to care.-shocked than satisfied. Judging by what is revealed it was less than likely that any of the guilty parties would be brought to justice but killing off just about everyone in the novel doesn't make me any happier. I could live with people not being sent to jail but here they are punished to the extreme, even the somewhat innocent ones. It tries to leave you with the tiniest speck of hope on the last page but by then you'll be too numb to care.	2003-07-15
US	50923544	R1XWKGU16J9XEA	0679642366	53340599	The Mysterious Island	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Fresh, Readable 'Island'	Summer is the season of the beach book; novels are selected because they are fluffy confections to be read on autopilot without a second backward thought. Classics are chunky, pedantic things; something to be read only if a gun is pressed to one's skull and VC Andrews is dangled like fleshpot flashlight at the end of a long dark tunnel. Luckily for us, Jordan Stump dove headfirst into Jules Verne's original French text and emerged with a book that is a happy marriage of the two: all of the melodramatic adventure and none of the tedious language from the original translation.<BR> <BR>The book speeds swiftly along, despite its size, and I often found myself reading several hundred pages when I'd only meant to take in a few chapters. The more modern linguistic style lends itself to readability even when some of the story is just pointless listing or telling rather than showing that would normally annoy me. Speaking of which, some things do strain the book's credibility, like the fact that Cyrus can invent everything *except* a way to get off the bloody island (Not unlike the Professor on Gilligan's Island) and there are more than a few fortuitous coincidences that will leave you snorting until you find out later that they're a deliberate part of the plot. Nothing much really actually 'happens' outside of the basic survival story until the pirates show up to provide some much needed conflict in part three where things become suspenseful, fun, and only slightly violent.<BR> <br />Ferat's etchings are wonderful snapshots of the action, with the exception of a few sad reprints with far too much ink that render some scenes nearly unseeable. His portrayal of the castaways battling a whale may not be accurate (In fairness, how many anatomical renditions of sea life were really available for study in the 1800's?) but the spiky-flippered sea monster he creates is awe-inspiring.<BR> <BR>Unfortunately, some of these pictures are placed on pages that come before the actual eventsin the text and they, along with the introductions, often give away major plot points. The chapter sub-headings are equally guilty of spoiling surprises and you have to train yourself not to peek so nothing important is given away. Because of when this was written there is an uncomfortable moment or two where racism and stereotyping come into play i.e.; the black man who remains with his master out of devotion even after being freed and an orangutan's face being described as 'almost human' like 'that of an Aborigine', but they quickly disappear as characters evolve. This book is strangely listed as being abridged but nowhere in the book itself is there any indication that the translator has cut anything.<BR> <BR>3 1/2 stars for a literary classic that has finally had justice done to it and now actually begs to be read by all ages. It doesn't bludgeon you over the head with outdated language or force you to overanalyze themes. It's ideal for summer reading but won't turn you brain into jelly.  As Pencroft would say 'Hurrah!'	2003-07-14
US	50923544	RWIKK60WIT9Y5	0812545419	197126237	The Last Dragonlord	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Hearts and Flowers Fantasy	This is the literary equivalent of cole slaw; somebody shoved a Harlequin romance and a fantasy novel through a shredder and mixed in some book paste at an attempt at cohesion. It's a pity the plot is so overdone and melodramatic because after the intial chapters, where the author; feels the need; to put semicolons; in every other sentence; the style itself lends itself to being enjoyably devoured.<br />Lindan Rathan, with his long girly locks and freakish 6'5 frame comes off more like Frankenstein and Fabio's lovechild than a heroic figure. His soultwin (a concept that still leaves me gagging) is, naturally, tall, beautiful, with long raven-colored hair and, of course, unlimited supplies of bravery. Maurynna is supposedly so wonderfully clever that she's sped through the ranks to become ship's Captain at a young age, fighting off storms and hordes of pirates, but she doesn't have the sense the gods gave her. After her initial introduction there isn't a chapter that goes by where she isn't crying, sobbing or weeping about how she misses the boyfriend who's done nothing but lie to her from the moment he's met her. The stuff of timeless romance indeed.  <br />Romantic elements never ruined a good fantasy but here it overwhelms every other plot. All the behind the curtains plotting about the succession, the machinations of the Fraternity of Blood, even the prince's poisoning, become secondary to the lovebirds. Even more unforgivable, Lindan's early dalliance with Sherrine is far more believable, more entertaining, and far less sickening than that between him and Maurynna. At least with he and Sherrine there was a flirty coyness and intelligent repartee that made them seem like a three-dimensional couple. There is absolutely zero chemistry between the soultwins; when they aren't kissing they're professing or being adoring. It's like witnessing the nauseating public displays of a teenage couple at a mall and not being able to escape. Not only do they never actually stopto get to know each other, Linden spends the better part of the time withholding vital information about her own life from her 'for her own good'. The final straw for me is when he finally beds his ladylove; knowing what he does could very well kill her, he lets his hormones get the better of him and then has the audacity to justify what he's doing by saying she should have protested. Wow, what a catch!   <br />The supporting cast has little else to do in the interim but coo over their cuteness or warn Linden what he's doing could endanger Maurynna's life and then laughingly shrugging it off when he does it anyway. Maylin is the only character with any sense in her when it comes to this man and you wish she'd just knock her cousin unconscious and tie her up in a closet so you could get back to reading the story that is actually supposed to be at the forefront. I found myself taking Sherrine's side more often than not, she's got a horrible mother and too many brains to fit in at court and when she seduces a man she winds up clicking with he throws her over for some bubble-headed nitwit he's only attracted to because of the dragon sleeping inside of him. That's gotta hurt more than the 'we can still be friends' line.<br />Griping aside, I did eat this book up at every free moment I had because the pacing and the few non-mushy moments were well done. I don't particularly like cole slaw but I ate this up by the warm, squishy cupful. Two and a half stars for the characters that didn't set my teeth on edge, the structure, and the potential for better things the author shows. Just please, Ms. Bertin, abandon Linden and Maurynna in sugar-cube happiness valley and lay off reading the love stories.	2003-06-20
US	50923544	RYPV60TGWZ2Z5	0441009166	27938824	Dragon Bones (The Hurog Duology, Book 1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Refreshingly Character-Driven	These days fantasy seems to boil down to the simplest of plots: kingdom is threatened, person discovers heroic calling, battle ensues. Characters fall into your basic categories of villain, underdog, mage, warrior, love interest and rarely have qualities that supercede the boundaries set by what is typically expected of them. Character development, if there exists such a thing in these books, only occurs in the few moments of respite between swordfights and paragraphs of long-winded exposition. Luckily for us, Patricia Briggs doesn't seem to have gotten this memo.<br />Instead, she crafts for us a short, sharp novel that actually makes us care more about the people than a furtherence of the plot. We are not burdened with one-dimensional bad guys or a nauseatingly infallible hero, and the auxillary players are kept to a well-managed minimum. Things move crisply along and all the introduced sublots are actually necessary to the story rather than filler or fodder for the inevitable sequel. This is a self-contained novel with a beginning, middle and (gasp!) an actual ending, a pleasant surprise in these days of dubius cliffhangers that make you wait years for a payoff that is hardly ever worth it.<br />The only points that had me raising an eyebrow were Oreg and the alternating first and third person chapters. Never fully defined, Oreg is described as a ghost and the spirit of Hurog itself yet he is not only tangible enough to touch everyone he encounters and ride a horse, but able to venture far and away from his keep. He essentially fills the role of the magical helper but it seems like the author is struggling to avoid cliche by introducing an element that can't be supported by her own text. The occasional swap from first person to third, though well-defined and never jumpy, might annoy those of us who've had it drilled into our heads that we're supposed to pick a storytelling perspective and stick with it. If you want to have a first-person narrative but it just won't work within the story you're either going to have to sacrifice or modify, waffling only lends an amateurish air to something that, for the most part, is anything but.<br />Often the characters threaten to overwhelm the tale entirely- and indeed there will be times where you couldn't care less about Ward's quest because, despite his protestations, he seems quite casual and scattershot about it himself- but the novelty of reading a fantasy where you actually get to see motivation as opposed to merely being informed that it's indeed there makes up for the sticky spots.	2003-06-17
US	50923544	R2S7V9CKPHPT0A	0380817160	200542713	A Winter Haunting	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Winter of Discontent	Winter Haunting is an interesting take on the horror genre. It takes your standard ghost story and injects a dose academia, it's just the dose is more than is healthy given the anemic page count. There are simply too many offset quotes and not enough scariness and suspense.<br />Dale is not exactly cut from the most sympathy-inducing length of cloth. Yes, he's losing his grip and his happy family but he's also a pretentious, obssesive adulterer who has brought most of his problems on himself. It's also hard to believe that someone who references so many literary and historical quotes and facts is only capable of writing a series of cliched and inaccurate western novels. Most professors are required to be published in academic periodicals and the ones that do write mainstream stuff usually choose something nonfiction in their chosen field.<br />So much time is spent talking and vaguely reminiscing about Dale's '60s childhood and the book he's trying to write about it that it really gets to the point where you want to ask the author why he didn't just tell that story instead of this one; it sounds much more interesting. But of course Simmons already has and it was called Summer of Night; the problem, is nowhere on the covers or the interiors is there any mention that is in any way related to another novel. The only reason I know was because after I'd finished it I came here and read it in other reviews. So many things might make so much more sense if these were read in order, not to mention the space he could have used to enhance this plot rather then rehashing stuff from the old one.<br />In Simmon's defense, he finds a pretty ingenious way to switch back and forth from first to third person in having the narrator be the spiritual remains of Duane hovering around. Duane occasionally injects his own opinions but for the most part tells the story as it happens while he watches. Being a 'ghost' he can also read Dale's thoughts and serve as a fully omniscient narrator.<br />The ending really comes off as something the author came up with out of boredom, having pretty much written himself into a corner; it explains very little of what's been happening and what ends are tied up leave more questions then they answer. This is not necessarily a bad thing as Dale is obviously becoming increasingly unhinged by the day and what's real and what's just in his head is debateable but the wrap-up muddies the issue with the fact that he receives physical injuries and is able to touch things that later turn out not to have existed.  <br />Which is not to say that there aren't some disconcerting scares to be had; the empty radios that continue to broadcast, mysterious scrabblings in the basement, faces that push against the plastic of the closed off second floor and a black bulldog that gradually increases in both size and number provide some much-needed chills and mystery to what is initially just Dale's pity party. But none of these phenomenon are really explained and since Dale isn't the only witness he can't be imagining everything; there is too much mystery and not enough resolution.<br />This book resides squarely in the middle of the Amazon scale, it's not so good as some horror or supernatural novels I've read but it does make me want to give Summer of Night a try.	2003-05-16
US	50923544	R35PVO11H0HZZW	0140071075	887689385	We Have Always Lived in the Castle	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Unnerving and Provocative	Time has stopped at Blackwood house, refusing to progress since the dark day arsenic found its way into the communal sugar bowl, killing four of seven family members. All that remain are sisters Constance- who was tried and aquitted of the murders- and Merricat, and wheelchair bound Uncle Julian. Aging in body but not in mind, the three live a quiet life of exile and ostracism, away from the accusatory looks and taunting rhyme: Merricat, said Connie, would you like a cup of tea?/ Oh no, said Merricat, you'll poison me.<br />Though eighteen, Merricat still thinks and behaves as a child, burying charms and making up spells to keep her family safe from the outside world. She is intensely protective of her sister, innocently contributing to Constance's agoraphobia and other anxiety problems, but is not without a gleefully dark sense of humor. When the local gossip drags someone along for an unwelcome visit, visibly upsetting her sister, Merricat pertly offers the frightened woman some sugar for her tea. She is not slow or retarded, as has been previously suggested, her mental development is simply in stasis from years of living in an unchanging vacuum. She is treated as a child and so she remains.<br />Julian, still suffering from the effects of the poisoning, relives the same few days over and over, oblivious to his declining health and mental lapses. Constance, on the other hand, seems completely aware as to how unhealthy all this is but is simply too frightened to take a first step until her cousin Charlie arrives with ulterior motives that will eventually shatter what little sanity is left.<br />The horror label is misleading, as this is neither the orgy of sex and gore nor the mindless splatterfest typical of the genre. 'Castle' is more of a pschological dissection containing elements of the Gothic. Within, Jackson has crafted a truly unique narrator and a spectacular tale of human cruelty and the fragility of the human psyche. It is a tale of quiet ordinarity andthe damage that can be wrought on the human mind through small actions, both well-intentioned and spiteful. In short, it is one of the few books in a very long time that had me salivating for more and blissfully satisfied at the end.	2003-05-15
US	50923544	R2BCP7ZDZOG2DZ	1563899426	868401290	Fables, Vol. 1: Legends in Exile	Books	2	22	32	N	N	Underdone Fairy Noir	Wizard magazine has been hailing this comic as fresh and exciting for well over a year and I waited for the graphic novel to arrive with no small measure of anticipation. Sadly, hype is not the same as quality.<br />The story is basically your average whodunnit with the twist coming from the fact that it takes place in a community of exiled characters from assorted fairy tales and works of fiction. Snow White's wild child sister has gone missing, her apartment awash with blood and painted with the ominous warning of 'no more happily ever after', and it's up to Detective Wolf to solve the crime before the annual Remembrance day. Why the deadline? I have no idea. And that it is only one of the many perplexing holes in the story. <br />The overlying problem is the length; this would have made a taut four-issue miniseries but it's been inexplicably stretched into five. Because of this, there are pages of lackluster filler featuring cameos of other literary characters for no point other then to try and be clever and edgy but succeeding only in its abilty to be crude and childish. Instead of getting a good chuckle out of seeing a modern Cinderella or Pinocchio you're struck more by the fact that Willingham writes them with exactly the same voice. Yes, it's funny seeing people who've been Disneyfied cursing, but only the first time around. <br />Snow White has a chip on her shoulder the size of an ogre and when she isn't tearing into someone she's crying about what might have happened to her sibling. That's it. That's her character for the whole affair. Everybody else is written with about the same voice, always more than slightly bitter and always ready with a witty remark. Willingham has all of the literary world to play with but doesn't take advantage of any of it aside from character names and a few story details that makes the comic feel like a cheap gimmick. <br />As things progress the story only further unravels. Dialogue de-evolves into random word ballons laced with profanity and almost the whole final issue is nothing but Bigby giving an explanation of the crime that had already been solved in the previous issue. The last few panels try to shoehorn in a romance angle but because interactions between Snow and Bigby haven't evolved at all over the course of the story- in the few places where they haven't been completely abandoned in favor of showcasing another 'hip' fairy tale re-creation- it just doesn't work. <br />The art is near flawless. The painted covers are beautiful sendups to the old poster-painted dimestore detective novels and the interiors are lovingly rendered with storybook flourishes and the occasional background object that's a little wink at the audience- three chairs in Old King Cole's apartment with three fiddles waiting on them is the one that immediately springs to mind. There's a bonus prose story by Willingham included as an extra accompanied by his own illustrations which suggest where his real talent lies.<br />For a much better look at fantasy and reality existing side by side in the city, pick up one of the Aria or Sandman graphic novels instead; their authors can weave webs out of even the most obscurely gossamer strands of myth and magic. This prefers to strive valiantly in the direction of a hardboiled detective tale but is little more than slightly poached. Two and a half stars for the art and the novelty but you'll come away with little else.	2003-05-12
US	50923544	R2Q6C6QG0XH5NT	0785108254	699808194	X-Men: The Fall of the Mutants (X-Men)	Books	2	14	23	N	N	The Fall of The Quality	The only reason these issues are bound together is because they were run under the same banner when they were originally published in 1988. This isn't a crossover so don't get this expecting mutants from your favorite '80s X-books to team up in any way. <br />The Uncanny X-Men story is the only one you will probably enjoy; even though it is an endless fight scene the tactics are clever and well thought out and every character gets a moment or two to shine. This is also the only one with any emotion invested in it; you get intense battles, bits of humor and pathos and some nicely believable interactions that make for a much more complete story then the next two. Yes, the villain is cheesy but Claremont's stories aren't so much about beating bad guys as much as teamwork, heroic sacrifice and the human condition. The opening pages, with Colossus in Scotland befriending some kids who love playing X-Men, but flee in horror when his powers manifest has no bearing on the story but is nonetheless a nice commentary on how theory and reality are two very different things for the human mind to cope with. Silvestri's art looks more sketchy and unfinished then a normal comic but that's what gives it a sense of action and immediacy. All the many people running around the panels are easily recognizeable and never posed generically.<br />X-Factor is downright painful to read and I can't emphasize enough that it be skipped. The art is choppy, with word balloons inserted in awkward places that make reading difficult, and so awful I couldn't tell that one of the villains was a female until another character referred to them as a her. Some of the original art must have gone missing because photocopies of comic pages have been inserted in several places as an ugly replacement. The piece tries to convey how selfless helping will eventually alleviate bigotry but the humans we see go from little Hitlers to throwing tickertape parades overnight. This section also overlapped with a story inPower Pack but those issues aren't reprinted because they aren't an 'X' title so heroes pop up and baddies die with no explanation whatsoever. Most insulting is Cyclops' endless speechifying about how he never really loved his wife (Who we just saw sacrificing herself to save humankind) followed by a leap into the sack with Jean Grey. Um...your wife *just* died and your son is missing shouldn't you be worrying or grieving insead of spewing venom and bodily fluids all over the place? <br />New Mutants is an improvement over X-factor, but not by much. Characters have a tendency to repeat themselves and several suffer from 'cutesy speech syndrome' where alien creatures talk in annoying styles and fonts, ethnic accents fade in and out and people are perpetually dropping g's d's and sometimes entire words from their sentences. Over-the-top histrionics ruin what could have been a poignant look at teenaged heroes dealing with death in the line of duty. The art is weird and cartoony but works strangely well within the context of a pre-teen comic. Bret Blevins doesn't skimp on the details and he never draws the shape-shifting, techno-organic Warlock the same way twice<br />Claremont's work is serviceable; it's not as good as his heydey issues but when you write a book a month about the same characters for almost fifteen years the quality is bound to flag from time to time. Compared to the X-Factor and New Mutants sections his work reads like John Milton. Louise Simonson's characters come off as carbon copied and one dimensional. Her idea of recapping is having one person each issue reiterate that they possess super-powers...to a fellow teammate no less and her idea of a good story segue is to have the New Mutants leave the morgue where their friend's body lay and excitedly play dress-up in the attic. <br />None of these stories really overlap to form a cohesive whole and the end result is more like an overpriced anthology of what X-Men comics had sadly come to as opposed tothe richer stories Vertigo was putting out at the same time. Invest your money, eyesight and time in one of the Essential X-Men volumes instead.	2003-05-10
US	50923544	R2P0AAU0I3TK8Z	0743412346	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, Frothy Fantasy	Too obvious for satire, too subdued for parody, Apropos is lodged firmly in the realm of comedic fantasy (Or is that fantastic comedy?). <br />In a way it's reminiscent of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead: what happens to a supporting character while the hero is out doing his do-goody thing? Only in this instance, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern take matters into their own hands and do away with Hamlet.<br />The story moves quickly- the 500 pages read more like 250- and the plot twists are neither cliched nor too predictable. The whole point of the tale is that legends are pretty much bloated bits of bogusness and all those noble heroes we read about in most fantasies wouldn't have lasted ten minutes in even the most gentle of fictional realities. Apropos may be a tad too cynical and nonheroic for those looking for more traditional fare, but that's what makes things *funny*. By all accounts he shouldn't be the main character, but a little itchy feeling in your brain is there to tell you that anybody who didn't act that way would quickly find himself impaled in the back by an enemy lance or gobbled up by a Phoenix. Surrounded by prudish unicorns and stuck with a potential pyromaniac of a Princess, Apropos does the best with what little conscience he has.<br />I do agree that most of the puns are lame, and sometimes characters, places, and titles are merely just grandiose set ups for a bad joke or two three hundred pages down the line. The first chapter felt completely out of place and, despite Apropos thinking that beginning his tale in medias res will draw interest, it's more of an irritating introduction than anything. But otherwise it's a fun, fresh book in what is rapidly becoming a very stale genre.	2003-05-06
US	50923544	R3DEM5O0M4TH20	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	1	49	59	N	N	Unbearable, Brainless Beach Read	This novel was written on automatic and it shows. Characters, plot, you name it, all of it is typical, by the numbers, fill in the blanks fiction. It smacks of cashing in on a trend, and it doesn't even have the decency to do it very well.<br />Cannie is lovelorn and overweight (because all heavy women in these novels *must* be lovelorn), a gifted writer whose potential is wasted at a dead-end newspaper job (because all lovelorn, overweight women have to have a job in the journalism field), with no one to turn to except her insane dog, Nifkin (Because all pets of lovelorn, overweight and overlooked women must have some quirk only she can find bearable). None of these cliches would be too damaging if only Cannie had some sort of engaging personality and a decent story to tell.<br />Alas, she does not. Her sarcasm- which we are no doubt meant to find endearing and humorous- comes off as unfunny and grating, and what the author tries to pass off as self-depreciation is more like long, irritating wallows of self-pity. At one point, Cannie goes out for dinner with a man, nauseatingly throwing herself at him at every opportunity, only to dine and dash when she finds out he has a girlfriend back home. So, what's the message here, a woman can only interact with a man if there's a potential for a sexual relationship? Instead of feeling sorry for her, I wanted to slap her for being so man-hungry she wasted a perfectly good chance at a friendship. <br />Cannie is feeling particularly 'poor pitiful me' these days because an ex wrote a magazine column about her, the gist of it being \\"Loving the Larger Woman\\". I won't go into her getting perplexingly angry and making things worse by telling absolutely everyone that the woman mentioned is her, knowing from personal experience about getting irrationally irritated about things an ex has done. And if the book were about that, about Cannie dealing with her feelings and learning how to be strong and confident and eventually moving on to be a better person I probably would have enjoyed it. Instead, we are suddenly jettisoned into magically impossible land, where mice in feety pajamas frolic with frogs wearing gumdrop hats. Cannie meets a famous actrress in a restroom who spontaneously decides to be her bestest friend and buy her lots of things and take her to expensive places. She's whisked away to LA where she charms a drunken, famous actor and eventually discovers she's been knocked up by the aforementioned ex. It's at this point where my head began to throb, but I stupidly ignored it and pressed on.<br />How everything is wrapped up is so treacly and trite your teeth will hurt. Absolutely every person Cannie meets goes out of their way to set things right or give her stuff so we never see any growth or maturity on her part. Cannie has neither the brains nor the inner resources, apparently, to deal with a single one of her of her self-inflicted problems. Alone and bitter? A baby will fix everything!  Poor and pregnant? Your amazing friends and estranged family will funnel vast amounts of cash into solving everything! The idea that being weak, single and saddled with a child will somehow win you a man is especially insulting. <br />This isn't a book, it's Cinderella on cocaine of the cheapest variety.	2003-04-28
US	50923544	R1VNY33QW8X32Q	0446607398	705659420	Belladonna	Books	3	2	5	N	N	'Bella ' 'Donna	I really had to struggle with a rating for this one, the first three quarters are just so deliciously trashy and then everything suddenly falls apart. The problem is the setup is so motivating and the story so much fun to read you can't help but be let down by the cop out of an ending.<br />Belladonna's imprisonment- despite its indiscreet lifting of ideas from 'The Story of O'- escape, and years in Italy are fine and dandy, but things really heat up when she relocates her 'family' to New York. The club, where status means nothing and the rich seem oblivious to the fact that they are being mocked, sizzles with subterfuge and random acts of revenge. Though I could have done without Bella's torment of her cousin, who hadn't really done anything consciously wrong all those years ago when Bella wound up a sex slave.<br />When Bella picks up and moves down South, that's your cue to put down the book. The wrap up doesn't live up to its promise in any way shape or form. The pieces just come together so badly and with much predictable, silly coincedence involved. I wanted a slam bang 'vengeance from the heavens' sort of end, but I would have been able to accept one where Bella never finds the answers she so desperately seeks nor the man who inflicted so much torture on her. Life seldom leads to perfect, tied-with-a-bow finishes and it would have been better to have no closure then the ridiculous and disappointing one with which we are presented. <br />A solid three and half star read, perfect for just about any situation.	2003-04-28
US	50923544	R2RHQ76CWGKJ2P	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Offensive Fairy Tale	My God ladies if we absolutely must keep buying books in this genre and encouraging publishers to produce them can't we make our tastes a little more discriminating? This is a Bridget Jones redux that rises to offensive heights.<br />Billed as a tale of 'ugly ducklings', I was expecting some measure of suspension of disbelief, but even my imagination can take only so much. The first third or so of the novel shows real promise, Jemima is fun heroine to ride along with and her two buddies have their own endearing idiosyncracies. At first, every time you think you know where the plot is going a little twist is thrown in. Not necessarily for better or worse, but it is a nice change from seeing developements coming from a mile away.<br />Only when Jemima starts dropping pounds does the story start to lose its effervescent steam. Suddenly this sweet confection of a fairy tale becomes dark and disturbing to the reader. Our heroine becomes a skeleton and flys halfway around the world to hook up with a random guy she met on the Internet (gag) and decides to be 'compassionate' to his overweight secretary (double gag). She seems wholly oblivious to the fact that she's become exactly the sort of person she's hated so much before she starved herself half to death. When things inevitably blow up in her face, she fortuitously befriends a British girl who is the carbon copy of her pal across the pond. Fairy tales only need one overly generous fairy godmother, thank you. The kicker to this whole sorry affair comes with the tidily disgusting ending, which had me set to shove the novel down the garbage disposal if it had only been my copy. <br />Remember boys and girls, the only way to make someone to love you for who you really are is to transform into someone skinny and blonde. Then, when they don't recognize you, they'll fall in love with your outside and learn to put up with your inside. Once they've married you, you can be free to let yourself go because you've got them trapped and it's too late for them to do anything about it.<br />And we all lived bitterly ever after!	2003-04-27
US	50923544	R1B3NAPP9IBO04	0446608289	623913572	Death of an Addict (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 15)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Hamish MacBore	I've seen an episode or two of the television version, starring the ever charming Robert Carlyle, and when BBC America pulled it from their lineup I decided to give the books a try. I think, perhaps, I picked the wrong one to start with, because if they're all this trite I'm flabbergasted as to why people read them.<br />Hamish is his usual do-goody, city-loathing self and that's about all I can tell you because the plot is a completely scattershot affair. What starts as a murder mystery becomes what could have been an interesting cult-infiltration if the author didn't seem to have ADD and instead arbitrarily abandons both plot threads in favor of one about drug smuggling. Soon the murder is nothing more then an afterthought as Undercover Hamish jets off for a random trip to Amsterdam, with requisite Snow Queen Superior Officer in tow. Thrill to Hamish hanging around a hotel room, Hamish eating at a restaurant and...Hamish going home with a prostitute?<br />Of course, Snow Queen's icy heart is inevitably melted to reveal a weak, angry girl who, of course, jumps into bed with our hero to prove her gratitude. Just once I'd like to read a mystery novel where the two leads of the opposite sex don't hop in the sack with each other, it happens in real life all the time I'm told. Simply because a man has a pretty smile and a charming brogue doesn't mean a woman has to immediately fall hoplessly in love with him (alright, well *I* would, but that's neither here nor there).<br />This book is hampered by the fact that there is no real villain. It starts out being the murderer, then flips to the cult leader, then the drug czar, none of whom are the leaste bit threatening or interesting. And Hamish's longtime rival has little to do except get drunk and plot out schemes so vile and unreal I half expected him to start twirling a big black moustache and talking like Edward G. Robinson. <br />A more accurate title would have been: Death of a Potential Fan	2003-04-27
US	50923544	RZIIZAR53K03T	0441008658	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magically Delicious	Don't let appearances fool you; despite my cynical exterior I'm a sucker for a good fairy tale. Usually I'm a bit wary of 'reimaginings' because they mostly consist of padding out the original, giving the characters inventive names and then either changing a detail or two or slicing and dicing until almost no semblance of the story remains. There are reasons myths and fairy tales persist for so long and if you can't fathom them then you shouldn't make any attempt to rework one of your own. If anyone has attempted to read the Ann Rice \\"novel\\" (note the derisive quotation marks) The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty then you'll know what I'm talking about. Luckily, Robin McKinley seems genuinely in love with fairy stories and with Spindle's End brings us a wonderful retelling that explains away quite a few inconsistencies in the original and gives a much needed feminist boost. There are no prissy princesses or testosterone-crippled prince charmings here, only flesh and blood characters.<br />There were moments when I questioned whether to keep going but only because I enjoyed seeing things from Katriona's point of view and didn't think Rosie would be nearly so much fun. Rosie is a rough and tumble, never out of her trousers, independent tomboy of a heroine with just the right amounts of kindness and spark to make her enjoyable to read. I kept waiting for her fairy blessings to kick in to give her pouty lips and perfect hair and turn her into someone impossibly beautiful and utterly loathable but thankfully it never happened.<br />Some people may not like the end, simply because it is so different then canon but it's also much more satisfying. Are we really meant to believe that happily ever after means marrying the first man able to hack his way through a hedgerow? Instead we gets acts of magic and heroism with sacrifices to be made and sorrows to share, things that make it so much more than just another revamped fairy tale with just another princess in distress.	2003-04-25
US	50923544	R20LA8M5AFZEII	0060505257	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mostly On Target	I'll be the first to admit I'm not a huge fan of the war novel- I much prefer fantasy- and, after Steven Pressfield sucked me in with Last of the Amazons and promptly turned me off with the bloated Tides of War, it took me a while to trust again. I found this book, bereft and alone, in a pile of unwanted fiction and decided I had nothing much to lose in giving it a try. After all this is Bernard Cornwell, the man who made it possible for me to see Sean Bean on horseback, disheveled and decked out in epaulets, and for that I owed him some concession.<br />Not having read any of his prior novels I can't comment on how derivative or overused the plot and characters might be but with a few minor quibbles it was an excellent page turner. The battle scenes are taut and interesting and not so drawn out that you find yourself skimming along to get through it all. The supporting cast is excellent for the most part, although Will Skeat and the Earl are largely interchangeable they are nonetheless looked forward to. It's actually the three major characters that you will find trying your patience.<br />Thomas makes for a nicely flawed hero, but all too often he saves the day for the English troops by finding that one essential ploy to defeat the French; he's either impossibly lucky or so willing to give credit to others that he never gets promoted up the ranks. Sir Simon Jeckyl is appropriately caddish as the main villain of the piece but he does seem rather foolish and downright inept at times. The real ant at this picnic is Jeanette, you know she's being set up as the love interest, and everybody seems to want her, unfortunately what starts out as a potential spitfire quickly turns into bitter ash. The girl can pretty much impale the center of a daisy on a crossbow bolt with her eyes shut and what happens the second she gets around a man? Instant crying, protesting rape victim. Rather than fight, which we know she's capable of doing, she just stands there while assorted people rip her bodice. It just seems in direct violation of her earlier prowling of the parapets.<br />While somewhat annoying, none of this really hampers the book overmuch. It has its flaws, but you'll still have a bloody good time.	2003-04-25
US	50923544	R8JBL0UII1HZJ	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Weird and Wonderful	I don't know what is, but every author these days seems to think the larger your book is the better it has to be. This trend has gotten especially out of hand in the fantasy department and now even books for younger audiences are starting to conform (Thank you *very* much, J. K. Rowling). What these people seem oblivious to is that no matter how long a novel is, a bore is a bore which is why I find myself increasingly eyeing the young adult shelves for a good, otherworldy read.<br />Thankfully, Neil Gaiman has written for every audience under the sun and knows how to spin a good tale of any length. In a relatively scant amount of pages he manages to conjure up a funny and frightening fairy story for the modern reader.<br />Coraline- most definitely *not* Caroline- is an unflappably English little girl who treats all her bizarre neighbors with a polite smile and a nod and behaves much the same way when she finds herself in a realm of button-eyed parents and crawling hands. But it's not all scares, there's the sarcastic and aloof Cat and a pack of terriers who love stage shows and chocolate in all its forms- except for toffee, which makes them dribble- to keep things from getting too dark. <br />All in all, a fun but all-to-brief story that's bound to amuse all ages.<br />But better too short than double the length and half the heart.	2003-04-22
US	50923544	R2CG5LRIYAKU3F	055357289X	741161362	Shadow Dawn (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 2)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Shadow Dreck	Alright, credit where credit is due, Claremont has improved some from the frightful start of this trilogy- 'Shadow Moon'- but only just enough so that by the time you realize the novel is going nowhere you've wasted too much time to back out now. <br />The chapters are still far too dense- a chapter of twenty pages takes nearly three times to wade through what those of a decent book would- most of the new characters introduced are one-dimensional bores and Claremont seems to make it a habit of killing off the few that aren't. On the plus side, Elora has become much more interesting and the few chapters where she's allowed to adventure across the land on her own are by far the best bit of the book. The underlying problem is that this is absolute middle of a storyarc so nothing much happens except what is needed to reenforce what happened in 'Moon' and pave the way to the inevitable showdown in 'Star'. Expect lots of pointless wandering and expository dialogue.<br />Which brings me to the biggest problem of all: an Epic fantasy requires an Epic villain because, lets face it, Good vs. evil is nowhere near as exciting as Good vs. EVIL, and the story just does not deliver. Instead we are treated to baddies like The Deceiver, who is little more than a glorified zombie, and...wait for it...The Lord Of The Dance. That's right, gasp in shock and awe at the might of a guy who will literally two-step you to your doom. It's books like these that make me sincerely wish there was an emoticon for a smiley repeatedly banging their head against something hard an unyielding- perhaps the skull of whichever of the two collaborative 'geniuses' thought any of this would be a good idea.<br />Cheer up, there's only one volume to go!	2003-04-22
US	50923544	R2IT7K6R95LNUZ	0553572857	936140893	Shadow Moon (Chronicles of the Shadow War, Book 1)	Books	1	25	31	N	N	Wherefore Art Thou, Willow?	While not the best fantasy movie of all time, Willow had its charm, not in the least of which were its senses of hope, wonder and humor.<br />Well don't come into here looking for any of that because it's gone; stripped away to make room for dark, brooding, and hugely convoluted.<br />Since it occurs in the prologue, it's no great spoiler to tell you that just about every character you knew and loved from the film is killed off in the first twenty pages or so, leaving you with a core cast of Willow and the inexplicably French Brownies, and even they are rendered nigh unrecognizable. The void is 'filled'-and I use that term as loosely as possible- with a dense soldier, a tomboy Princess, a zombie warrioress and, well, another dense soldier. Are we entertained yet?<br />Adding insult to injury, the story itself is a confusing, muddled mess so what should be a tense battle scene or a poignant moment is rendered unreadable. Claremont has a handful of favorite description nouns, which becomes readily apparent the fifth or so time someones says or does something with asperity, until you're rolling your eyes so often concerend parties will ask whether or not you're having a stroke. The worst of it is, the few times we do get any insight into what happened to other people between the prologue and the present things are presented so vaguely you're still none the wiser. Did Willow's son somehow get turned into a hellhound? Does Willow kill him? Is it the same hellhound that appears at the start of the book? I have no idea and I read the friggin' thing!<br />The dragon is the only piece of entertainment you'll find because he's the only one with any heart or humor to him, but even that was short lived as the author very kindly takes him away from us after a few, all-to-brief scenes. The solitary other plus the book has going for it is that it's so unlike the film in every way that it's unlikely to taint your feelings for it. A few of the characters have some coincedental names, that's all.<br />Save your money and re-watch the movie.	2003-04-22
US	50923544	R2WTG87T0WM7G1	158240139X	878588346	Aria Volume 1: The Magic Of Aria (v. 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fantastically  Fractured Faerie Tale	Brian Holguin is one of those rare comic book authors who could have a five-year-old doing his illustrations and you just wouldn't care because the story would suck you completely in regardless. Fortunately for us he doesn't have a toddler, he has the terminally gifted Jay Ancleto, and if that isn't enough to send you into the throes of ecstacy then I don't know what is.<br />Between the two of them they conjure up an utterly believable realm where fairies and ancient gods walk among us, as human as you or I but merely gifted with magicks and a conditional immortality. Lady Kildare is beautiful, chain-smoking, leather-loving, fairie with a take-no-prisoners attitude and a day job at a curiosity shop. Pug is her tattooed, incorrigible partner in crime who's as handy with a broadsword as he is with the dispatching of a case of beer. Her cousin Gwynnion is fragiley insane in a thoroughly endearing way and it is she who serves as the catalyst for the Second Coming of The Dark One. The three of them, plus some other eccentrically magickal characters you may or may not recognize, have to trek halfway around the world, through worlds mundane and magical to try and save both realms from imminent Armageddon.<br />Which is not to say this is just one long, drawn-out, bloody swords and sorcery story. Just the opposite. There are many quiet, character development moments infused with humor; especially funny are Gwynnions meanderings in and out of sanity (Or as close to sanity as she can get) and a scene where Kildare has to deal with one ignorant customer after another until all she can do is disparagingly declare 'Oh what fools these mortals be'.<br />The only thing that keeps this book from being a five star read is the disconcerting jump from Ancleto to a fill-in artist- who is still very good but works in a completely different style that gives you a jarring transition- for one of the four issues. Also, Ancleto's fully shaded, photo-realistic illustrations are so perfect as-is it would have been nice to see them without computer effects layered on top of them. I defy you to look at the untouched black and white covers and sample panels at the back of the book and think that they could be improved in any way with a bit of color. <br />Graphic novels are the DVDs of the comic world; as such the extras are what make or break the final prouduct and Aria simply teems with them. About a third of the book is nothing but bonus material, including a cover gallery that features all the issue's covers, even the alternate ones, with all the logos removed to let you appreciate 100% of the beauty. There's also a bonus prose story by Brian Holguin and lots of assorted sketches and pin-ups by Jay Ancleto.	2003-04-05
US	50923544	R3QYNOEL8C9WDQ	0786868694	794249672	Nigella Bites: From Family Meals to Elegant Dinners -- Easy, Delectable Recipes For Any Occasion	Books	3	26	32	N	N	A Matter of Taste	Like all cookbooks, success or failure depends entirely on the recipes contained therein. How to Be a Domestic Goddess was absolutely packed with foodstuffs I couldn't wait to tie on my apron and try but Nigella Bites is more miss than hit. It was nice to have full access to all the TV recipes without having to scramble for a pen and scrap paper whenever it came on E! but convenience isn't enought to justify the price tag. As always, the numerous photos are appreciated and let you know whether or not you've gone horribly awry in the cooking process but the many blank pages for 'notes' are a waste of space. No one who's just shelled out twenty-five dollars for a cookbook is going to deface it (Just take notes on bits of paper and tuck them into the appropriate pages like everyone else for heaven's sake, Nigella).<br />But these are niggling details in the grand scheme of things; whether or not you should buy this book hinges solely on what your eating urges are. Each section is a essentially a 'themed' meal- White Trash, Dinner for Two, Rainy Day Supper, etc- so altogether you only get about 8 different recipes for any given course. Looking for lots of appetizers? Tough. Want a wide variety of main courses? Too bad. Need to satisy your sweet tooth? Invest in 'Domestic Goddess' instead. This book is more your style if you want to try a little bit of everything: A Nigella sampler.<br />All told, despite being a rabid Nigella food fanatic, I only found about 6 recipes I really wanted to try and I've only gotten around to cooking two of them: Chocolate Pots and Mozzarella Carraviggio. They are both delicious but very rich; any more than one helping and you'll find yourself feeling sick. Mozzarella is the worst offender, being essentially a fried grilled cheese sandwich that sits very heavily in your stomach.<br />It's more than a little ironic that the book most directly tied into the show that made Nigella famous to American audiences is quite possibly her weakest effort.	2003-03-22
US	50923544	R223YIZI2HVM7W	0440406943	77921689	D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths	Books	5	300	305	N	N	Timeless Book of Tales	I first read this book when I was twelve years old and it affected me so much that ten years later I still have a deep and abiding love of Greek mythology. A ratty, paperback copy I found at Salvation Army still holds *the* place of honor in my Greco-Roman collection, usurping The Odyssey, The Iliad, Edith Hamilton, and Robert Graves.<br />What originally struck me as so fantastic (and still does) is that the D'aulaires don't write down to their audience or edit out details important to the original myth that some parents might not approve of. The end result? An all ages storybook and mythological primer that no one should be ashamed to own.<br />The drawings are an acquired taste, falling somewhere between Classical pottery paintings and Art Deco, but they do grow on you. My only quibble is that there's no pronunciation guide, which can really hamper you if this is your first exposure to these stories. <br />Buy this for for your children or even for yourself, you will never regret it.	2003-03-10
US	50923544	R3KGBIP6XYMIED	0786867973	194529374	How to Be a Domestic Goddess: Baking and the Art of Comfort Cooking	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Divinely Delicious	I am not a 'girly girl'. Babies do not make me coo with delight, I have never been able to finish an issue of 'Cosmo', 'Seventeen', or 'Woman's Day', I do not obsess about my weight and I have no idea what either an empire waist or princess seam is. So imagine my surprise when I flicked on my TV one day, saw someone in a pair of jeans and a nice blouse separating eggs with her bare fingers and whipping up some delicious looking meals, and thought to myself \\"that looks like fun\\".<br />That someone, of course, was Nigella Lawson and as soon as I could, I borrowed a copy of 'Domestic Goddess' and decided to give my kitchen skills a workout. I'd never made anything from scratch before in my life and was absolutely terrified but the book made it so easy, so comfortable, so fail-safe, I was trying new recipes as fast as I could scrounge up the ingredients and I had bought a copy of my own within a month.<br />The book itself retains all of Nigella's warmth and easygoing manner; it's like having a British friend in your kitchen with you. She never makes you take the longer, more complicated route through recipes and freely admits to using her microwave to speed up some processes. Since the recipes are mostly for baked goods you have to follow some exactly or risk flat bread and misshapen cakes but once you get comfortable there is plenty of room for experimentation. Blackberries are not cheap and whipped heavy cream is too bland for my tastes so I use Cool Whip and Black Raspberry preserves for the center of my Victoria Sponge Cakes.<br />Depending on how cooking inclined you are you might find yourself having to shop for things like Springform pans and ramekins but the Chocolate Baby Cakes alone are worth the price. All the desserts are excellent and, though a lot of the meat pies and breads are a little too English for most American palates (Game Pie with pork belly anyone?), you're bound to find something you you'd like to try at least once.<br />You owe it to yourselfto give the Garlic and Parsley Hearth Breads a chance, the recipe is a bit challenging but the smell it fills your house with, along with the taste of the final product is all the reward you'll need. <br />So while I still have no idea which handbag goes with what outfit or the difference between formal and black-tie, I do think that nothing pulls together an ensemble quite as nicely as an apron.	2003-03-10
US	50923544	R2AEMDRIH5MT5E	038532720X	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	1	13	19	N	N	Put A Stake In It	Beautiful but misunderstood heroine, sexy vampire love interest, good-natured. optimistic Wiccan, I really liked this story... when it was called \\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\\".<br />Even judging this by young adult standards it's a poor excuse for a novel. Heck, by fan-fiction standards this is a poor excuse for a novel. Contradictions abound and the author seems makes up vampire lore as she goes, usually to get herself some corner she's written herself into. I won't rehash the plot, as many other reviews have done so much better then I could have, and without the smart remarks I no doubt would have been driven to make.<br />While I will grant that Atwater Rhodes writes well for her age, any promise she might have shown in 'Forest of the Night' just got flushed down the same drain as the money you spent on this fluff. She takes characters from her first novel and turns them into caricatures (shadowy menace becomes puppy love with fangs) and the ones she introduces are about as well developed as a prepubescent child, including the one based on herself!<br />At one point Amelia...I'm sorry I mean *Jessica*...can't understand why someone as gorgeous and talented as her has such a hard time being accepted. Here's a clue: you're vain, vapid and shallow, and when someone tries to be nice and make friends with you, you act more like a witch than an actual Wiccan.<br />Don't believe me? With all these glowing reviews I can't blame you, so if you absolutely must satisfy your curiosity might I suggest the following?<BR>1. Check this out of the library<BR>2. Find the 45 minutes it will take you to speed through this pothole-laced highway of a book<BR>3. Take a long hot shower to wash away the dirty feeling it gives you<BR>4. Resist urge to set book on fire <BR>5. Spend your money on Laurell K. Hamilton or a 'Buffy' Novel instead	2003-03-10
US	50923544	R18WHADJ0SL7GN	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Pure Pulp Bliss	I was in the mood for some nostalgia the other day and remembered a fantastic scary movie I'd seen when I was about twelve starring Roddy McDowell and the perpetually naked Pamela Franklin called 'The Legend of Hell House'. Since it's nearly impossible to find in video stores I decided to read the book it was based on instead and picked this up. Granted, my inner child is not the most reliable source of information (I caught 'Jack the Giant Killer', what it rated as my 'favorite' childhood movie, on tv the other day and was so appalled we're still not on speaking terms) so I didn't open up the cover with the highest of expectations.<br />Fan-freaking-tastic is all I have to say. Now I'm not rating this as how it compares to Shakespeare, but rather judging it on what it is: pulp. And as pulp horror goes this is a fun jaunt through scary house land. All the requisite elements are here: creepy fog, seance gone wrong, spirit-sensitive cat, sole survivor of previous attempted exorcism, and the paranormally clueless character that gives the author a reason to explain everything to you. Plus, it being the seventies and all, you get the added sex and open perversion earlier books of this kind had to leave out.<br />I know most horror connouseurs consider 'The Shining' as the book by which all other haunted house tales are judged but I never liked that novel much anyway ('Blasphemy!' The review readers cry. 'Burn the heretic!'). When I pick up a horror novel I want to be scared or uncomfortable or made to feel at least *something* and when you pick up a hefty Stephen King you have to break it into pieces which ruins any suspense you might get. With Hell House you can just dive in, get your scares, and crawl out again all in the space of a single sitting. No fuss, no muss, and the intended impact stays intact.<br />So four stars for Hell House and all its' campy, seventies pulp-porn glory. It might not make anyone's top horror list (myself included) but it will give you a fewhours of rainy-day/snowed in/beach weekend entertainment and for that you will be grateful.	2003-03-10
US	50923544	R2N0T1FLQ7NQJK	1563897199	744215086	Swamp Thing VOL 04: A Murder of Crows	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Magic in the Mire	Lets face it, Alan Moore is God's gift to the comic book reader. His stories are so intense, so cerebral, so completely real that I guarantee if you give any of his books to a non-comic fan they will never look at you like you're a childish freak again.<BR>Swamp Thing was his first real American hit and its easy to see why: the tales age like a fine wine and you can use any issue as a jumping on point without becoming the least bit confused.<br />A Murder of Crows lures you in gently with three stand-alone stories that are reminiscent of Tales From the Crypt, but scarier because they are the quiet kind of horror that gradually build to frightening heights. From there you're launched headfirst into the muck of the massive 'Crisis' crossover DC used in the '80s to clean out its proverbial junk room of convoluted plots and multiple Supermans (There were somewhere in the neighborhood of 5 at the time), only your mind is not in the least bit boggled. Moore keeps things tidy (Plotwise anyway, some of this stuff is not for the squeamish) and the characters to a minimum so you always know what's going on with who and where. The depth he is able to go into as he bounces you from South American cults to British seances to Under-World War III will amaze you. For those Hellblazer fans out there, John Constantine's presence provides some serious magic of the non-Harry Potter variety as well as some wonderfully snarky commentary to lift the gloom a little.<br />You'll smirk, you'll cringe, you'll shudder and squirm. <br />You won't have a read you'll have an experience.	2003-01-17
US	50923544	R1XLUGAWT9A0VH	1892213095	436149185	Peach Girl #2	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Still Pretty Peachy	Poor Momo still can't seem to catch a break. Every time it looks like things between her and Toji are smoothed out, the diabolical Sae appears to muss things up. But if volume 1 was a pretty close representation of the mixed up love-life of a high school teen, volume 2 is a tawdry melodrama; lots of crying bouts, cat fights, and some really stupid actions by Momo drag down what should be a lighthearted read.<br />Sae's still up to her relationship-wrecking mischief, but her plans aren't as clever as before and require a lot of leaps of faith on the readers part to believe they could be pulled off so letter perfect. She also seems a lot more malicious; we all know she doesn't want Toji and Momo together but now its starting to border on obsession.<br />Toji seems to have misplaced his brain somewhere between books, because he's a complete and utter idiot when it comes to Sae's manipulations and, as Momo so eloquently puts it, \\"On what planet do boys rehearse kissing their girlfriends by practicing on other women?\\". The boy is a twit and if Momo weren't so hopelessly infatuated she'd see that.<br />The absolute saving grace of the story is the wily Kiley. Despite being completely lovestruck, he's willing to help Momo win her man because he doesn't want to see her hurt. Equal parts comic relief and voice of reason, he's an all-around sweetheart that keeps the plot's fizz from going totally flat.<br />While not as frenetic and fun as volume 1, Peach Girl 2 is still a good read, despite the annoying soap opera flourishes	2003-01-17
US	50923544	R16PTROU1A5CJ0	1887279822	223934746	Grunge the Movie Bootleg	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Rollicking Parody	Grunge and Roxy were the only two remotely interesting characters in the Gen13 series so it's only fitting that Adam Warren devoted an entire miniseries to a conversation they have that quickly devolves into a hysterical parody of manga, anime, kung-fu flicks, and comics in general.<br />After seeing a laughably bad ninja movie with his kinda-sorta girlfriend, Grunge decides that even a muscle-headed surf-rat such as himself could make better cinema. What follows is his epic idea for the greatest movie ever; starring none-other than his brilliant self of course...and under duress, Roxy as his saucy sidekick.<br />From a period piece...in bikinis, to an action film...in lingerie, to a Yakuza Mafia flick...in tube tops, Grunge's dirty little mind ricochets from one ripe parody to another, much to Roxy's chagrin. Her vision involves Sailor Moon style romance, not having shower scenes with steam wafting past convenient places. Her tart remarks will have you smiling when you should be cringing at the political incorrectness of it all.<br />What makes it so great is that Warren draws in line-perfect manga style, making the comedy that much funnier. Roxy has never looked better, with her pink-streaked punker hair and her bulky leather jacket, she looks ten times better than any actual manga girl.<br />This is definitely a teens and up read, despite the cartoony goodness of the art. There is near-nudity, violence, and innuendo aplenty; perfect for a good chuckle but not for little kids.	2003-01-17
US	50923544	R36OMEWUG68ZT7	1563896265	572992895	Young Justice: A League of Their Own (Robin) (Superboy) (Impulse)	Books	1	7	22	N	N	Smells Like Teen Spit	I went into this expecting something funny and fantastic- Peter David being the genius behind the best novels of the Star Trek series, a phenomal run on The Incredible Hulk, and the longtime scribe of Captain Marvel- and I emerged, horribly dissapointed, from the burnt-out wreckage of this train accident of a graphic novel.<br />Reading this tripe is like being a teenager all over again: a grinding headache, an overwhelming urge to roll your eyes and a complete and utter contempt for your fellow human being sets in after less then five pages.<br />The characters are flat, the jokes revolve almost entirely around bad puns and are altogether lame, moments of angst are forced and uncomfortable to read, and out of four primary villains only one is actually defeated by this 'super-team'and not some other character or lucky circumstance.<br />The one shining moment in the whole book is a story taken, not from the series, but from the Young Justice Secret Files one-shot and is written and drawn by D. Curtis Johnson and Ale Garza, respectively. In this issue Robin and Superboy do not sport interchangeable faces, Arrowette is not an annoying priss who turns to submissive mush whenever she gets around a super-male and the story is actually engaging. I was dissapointed when this secton was over because it meant I had to go back to slogging through David's unfathomably bad mire.<br />For a decent read about teen superheroes try graphic novels of Marv Wolfman and Georege Perez's run on the New Teen Titans, Claremont's stint on Uncanny X-men, or (And believe me, it pains me to say this) even the Brandon Choi, J. Scott Campbell incarnation of Gen13, at the very least you'll enjoy the art.<br />As for Peter David, please don't let this sour you on his work. His talent is enormous and I'd like to think of this as just a minor misstep; spend your money on one of his great paperbacks or on any other of his graphic novels instead. I'd hate to think anyone passed on other highly entertaining works just because this drivel tainted their perspective.	2003-01-11
US	50923544	RGN07LP5B0PN8	1569715416	269140188	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Spike & Dru	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Love, Vampire Style	This trade paperback is pretty hit and miss, collecting all the Spike and Dru one-shots to date with a 10 page backup story from an anthology.<br />As far as the art goes, Ryan Sook's rendering of Drusilla is nearly spot on but his Spike leaves something to be desired; at times, there are so many superfluous lines on the vamp's face that he looks like George Hamilton without benefit of tanning butter. Eric Powell's slightly more cartoony style is better suited to the story, his fight scenes are fluid and easy to follow, rather then awkward, angular, and ink-laden like Sook's and his characterization comes across much better.<br />Golden's writing improves considerably with each issue. Queen of Hearts is dark, maudlin and, if not for Dru's ramblings, could easily be the story of any two vampires, while All's Fair is very much a Buffy tale, containing a lot more of Spike's caustic commentary, Dru's wily ways, and the two's crushingly codependent romance.<br />If you're a diehard Spike and Dru fanatic, who's delirious at the couple's every mention, you won't be disappointed but the more casual fan might be left wanting.	2001-08-18
