US	50920562	R1LC348YRZMWSX	0689863608	767397627	A Solitary Blue (The Tillerman Series #3)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A great book	I just read this book for the first time in several years, and thoroughly enjoyed it. Everyone else has already given a basic summary of its plot, so I won't try for that. However, I greatly appreciated this book. <br /> <br />My favorite part of \\"Solitary Blue\\" was the character development. I loved watching Jeff grow and change throughout the book, from what he described as a ghost, even in his own life, to someone actively involved in the world, making friends and finding things that he loved to do. I ached for him when his mother broke his heart and he thought it was his fault, got angry at himself for being so fragile and easy to break, and determined not to be that fragile again (I wanted to shake him and say, \\"You're SUPPOSED to be easy to break at 12 years old! That's because you're supposed to be able to TRUST your parents to protect and watch over you.\\"). I also enjoyed watching his father grow and develop as a character. At the beginning he came across as almost completely unaware of Jeff, as well as unable to care for him at all. However, as the story progressed he began to open up, to care for his son, and to reach out to him. I was glad to see that it wasn't too late, that despite all of his hurt Jeff was still able to respond to his father and develop that relationship. <br /> <br />His mother, on the other hand, was something else. One of the strong points of this book was that it got me involved enough to feel passionately angry at Melody for her treatment of her son. Perhaps because I have feminist do-gooder tendencies like the ones she claimed, I had no patience for her constant desire to hide behind her beliefs. I'm sorry, it doesn't matter how much good you want to do the world; you don't abandon your child(ren) to do so (if it was so important to her that Jeff learn about social justice issues, why not take him with her?). You don't send them off on a 16 hr. bus ride with no money or food. You don't use and manipulate the people around you forthe \\"greater good of society\\". All in all, I was thoroughly disgusted with her. In a weird way, that speaks to the strength of the book; I don't generally get so angry with a book character, and the fact that I did means that Voigt knew what she was doing. <br /> <br />As I mentioned, this is a good book and worth reading. It may be for slightly more mature tastes, however; I remember that I thought it rather boring the first time I read it years ago.	2005-04-07
US	50920562	R3W28HVRPBQ839	0590467158	991992050	When She Hollers	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Not Cynthia Voigt's Best	Normally I love everything that Cynthia Voigt writes, but not this one. Some parts of it were realistic from what I've heard and seen in the lives of those around me who have been abused, but somehow it just never clicked for me. <br /> <br />I was also severely disturbed by the way the lawyer reacted to her. She was obviously a kid (I don't remember her exact age, and I don't have the book in front of me, but it seems that she was about 12 or 13), but he pretended that she was over 18. I know he was trying to give her a feeling of control over her life, but if she'd come for him to help, he shouldn't have sent her back out to face her stepfather again, carrying a knife and very obviously on the edge of doing something stupid (not to mention the fact that he could have gotten into big trouble; most 12/13 year olds don't look like they could be mistaken for 18 yr. olds). <br /> <br />Finally, it didn't end well. You never find out what happens between her and her stepfather; in some books it works to leave things on a cliffhanger like that, but in this one it just annoyed me (okay, it almost always annoys me, but sometimes I can appreciate that it was a good writing technique; this time I didn't think it was). <br /> <br />I think this is an important subject that ought to be read about, but I personally wouldn't recommend this book for that. Two other books that address the issue of sexual abuse (or, more specifically, incest) are \\"Silver\\" by Norma Fox Mazer (I know someone else already mentioned that one, but I really liked it too and thought a second mention couldn't hurt) or, if you like fantasy, \\"Deerskin\\" by Robin McKinley. Be aware that \\"Deerskin\\" is meant for a slightly older audience than this one; I don't mean subject matter so much as style, tone, and so on.	2005-03-31
US	50920562	R3069D1TIVLQXZ	157322815X	16172294	Beyond the Sky and the Earth: A Journey into Bhutan	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A wonderful book!	I just finished reading this book, and thought it was wonderful! It was especially good to read because I just recently moved to Romania and am going through some of the same experiences that the author discribed. Culture shock, language, trying to teach students without the words to communicate with them (I haven't had anyone tell me that their birthday is &quot;It is rice and pork,&quot; yet [p. 43], but I could definitely relate to that story!), all of these are common struggles in a new land.<br />One of the best parts of the book for me was the way the author managed to combine a description of the history of Bhutan and her own personal experiences. I love reading history and culture books, but reading about history by experiencing it through someone else's eyes made it all come alive again. I loved how Zeppa brings the reader slowly through ever-spiraling circles deeper and deeper into the culture. The way she carefully described her arrival in the country, her original culture shock and despair, and the gradual love she gained for her new people are very well-crafted. It gives the reader the chance to experience the same gradual love of Bhutan, its culture, people, and landscape. She also managed to do so with a good sense of humor, laughing about things such as rats having a Rat Olympics while she was trying to sleep, or the reverse culture shock of having sliced bread after so many months in what originally seemed to her to be extremely spartan living conditions. I've read many travel books and memoirs, but I have to say that this is one of my all-time favorites.<br />I also appreciated the author's honesty, both about the good and the bad decisions she made and things she experienced. Here I have to take issue with some of the other reviewers. In fact, I have to wonder if they've ever lived in a country besides their native land (as well as wondering how they would fare with the Rat Olympics, lack of electricity, unfamiliar food, and lack of connection totheir first native land). I found Zeppa's description of culture shock to be extremely accurate. As humans we have the built-in characteristic of believing on a certain fundamental level that the way we know things is &quot;right&quot;. Living in other cultures can change that to a certain degree, but it never goes away. Some days (especially in the beginning) you wonder why you ever decided to come to this stupid country and when the next plane home is. Other days you love this wonderful new country, can't believe you ever lived anywhere else, and can't imagine why anyone would ever live life differently than people do in your new home. Most days are somewhere in-between. Through a great deal of work you can try to view both your old and new cultures objectively, but this is very hard. I felt that Zeppa did an amazing job with this; she was definitely not perfect, but she wrestled with her decisions before making them and remained constantly open to new ideas and interpretations of what she saw, which is more than most people can do. To me, this was one of this book's main strengths. I loved this book and would recommend it to people interested in learning about another culture. I would also recommend it to people who are going to be living in a new country to give them an idea of what culture shock can be like. Although most culture shock won't be as severe (Canada to Bhutan is one of the biggest cultural changes available on our planet at the moment), this is still an excellent view of what adjustment can be like. If nothing else, I know that I will remember this book so that when my culture shock gets worse (&quot;I don't understand what she just said... This new climate is hard to get used to!... Why do they do things THAT way here?&quot; etc.) I can know I'm in good company.	2002-10-10
US	50920562	R1JN0VLSC21SMO	0670836494	556301904	Exit into History: A Journey Through the New Eastern Europe	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent	I'm preparing to move to Romania, and read this book to give me an idea of the way things were over there a few years ago. I greatly enjoyed this book. It was well written, and thought-provoking. Every now and then the author would lapse into excessive use of &quot;textbook speech&quot;, but for the most part I appreciated the way she wrote. I also appreciated the way she used various stories to get her information across. For someone with little to no interest in this area, this would not be a good book to start with. However, I found it very readable, and highly recommend it.	2002-02-21
US	50920562	R1GVXORW69F3DM	0830819584	677014317	True Love in a World of False Hope: Sex, Romance & Real People	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great book on relationships	I've read a wide variety of books on dating, sexuality for the unmarried, and so on, and this is my all-time favorite. One of the things I love about this book is that the author is balanced. She believes that sexual intercourse should be saved for marriage, yet still avoids the trap of making any hormones, etc. seem bad and wrong for the unmarried. She also looks at relationship patterns that can be helpful or harmful. I found that she discussed several issues that most authors ignore; I appreciated this a great deal. While she hit honestly and openly on many of the main sexuality issues that most Christian authors discuss (boundary lines for physical affection, keeping your relationship Christ-centered, etc.) she went beyond them. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone seeking to gain insight on how to make good decisions about romantic relationships.	2002-02-01
US	50920562	R20YSFGC4L53NC	0345396553	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not Shannara's best	I have to agree with many of the other reviewers of this book.  I've read all of the other Shannara books, as well as several of Brooks's other books, and I've greatly enjoyed them.  This one, however, left me cold.  It has many of the common elements of his books (perhaps thrown a little too frequently at you, to remind you of all of them again), and some of his style.  Yet somehow, something was missing.  The characters weren't as realistic, the evil was too predictable (as were several of the plot twists), and many of the descriptions dragged on.  It all felt less carefully edited, like the author had rambled more and relied too much on old Shannara standards without strong enough writing to let them succeed this time.  I also have to say that Brooks used one of the sci-fi/fantasy techniques that I personally dislike the most, i.e. take a perfectly good fantasy world, develop it thoroughly and separately from our own, and then mix our science and technology in.  This may be a personal bias, but I always find it to be a cop-out. (for those of you who haven't read the book, this shouldn't be too much of a spoiler unless you haven't read any of the other Shannara books.  If this is your first Shannara book, I would suggest putting it down and going back to read them in more of a chronological order; this book refers to past books a lot, and will make much more sense if you've read them first)  I will still read the sequel (especially since one of my housemates considerately left it lying on the coffee table for me), and I will still recommend this author, but I was not enamored of this book.	2001-11-11
US	50920562	R5O5MSH7NPWKL	0441003516	694276507	StarBridge 6: Ancestor's World (Crispin, A. C., King, T. Jackson, Starbridge 6.)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not Starbridge's Best	I had read all of the Starbridge novels before this one, and was excited to find this one by accident in a local bookstore. However, when I actually read it I was disappointed. The Starbridge universe has always seemed to me to be creative and different, both in the various species that are found and the various ways that they interact. This book had too many rote characteristics of a novel written solely to sell. It felt like the author(s) decided, &quot;People like reading about violence, so we have to include some fights... And they like reading about sex, so we'll throw in an affair [which worked out much too neatly, by the way; in a real relationship, Mahree's sexual fling with someone else would have had some negative affects. I know that some authors write about all sorts of unrealistic relationships, but I liked these particular characters enough to be annoyed by having someone mess with them like this] ... And let's throw in some generic traits that have been in the other Starbridge novels. Hmm; which shall we choose?....&quot; instead of actually having a good, workable idea for a new story and a new people group. As I have mentioned, I greatly enjoyed the first several Starbridge novels, and I was also fond of the one after &quot;Ancestor's World&quot;, so I'm guessing it was the co-author.	2001-08-25
US	50920562	R37XPQFCQ8CKHT	0226424197	349047736	French Lessons: A Memoir	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Good book in many ways	This book was a textbook in preparation for a study abroad trip to France. In many ways I could relate to the author. In particular, I too lost a parent suddenly and unexpectedly when I was young. I too (for different reasons) ended up living in France, learning French, and falling hopelessly in love with it (as well as the people and many aspects of the culture; however, I'm a linguist at heart). Because of this, much of what she wrote about her life experiences, her love of and need for French, rang true to me. I was profoundly grateful to her for giving me the words and concepts necessary to understand myself and the world around me better. On the other hand, I found her intellectual approach to life difficult to handle. I appreciate the intellectual side of life, but there's a point when it becomes too excessive and all-controlling. At times I felt she slipped over into this too much. For example, her experiences in French graduate work convinced me almost single-handedly NOT to study French after my bachelor's degree. All in all, I would recommend this book to someone who is already in love with France, French, and the French. Otherwise it may come across as overly intellectual and of little interest.	2001-08-25
US	50920562	R2H0SNR9WAYGLA	0441005160	587639382	Starbridge 7: Voices of Chaos (Starbridge Series)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Fairly Decent	If I could I would actually give this book 3 1/2 stars, but it doesn't quite rate four. I love cats and love Starbridge novels, so in many ways this should be right up my alley. I did in fact think it was a decent read, and after a few false starts (the Starbridge novel before this one really disappointed me, so I was slow getting into this one) it managed to hold my attention well. I appreciated the various issues brought up because of the romantic interest between the two lead characters.  I have no idea what would happen in real life if two alien species became attracted to each other, but in some ways at least this seemed to do a decent job of considering that. Some of the story did seem a bit too... predictable, maybe? However, the end still held some surprises, which I appreciated. This isn't the best book I've ever read, but (particularly for Starbridge fans) it's not bad.	2001-08-25
US	50920562	R1WJFYPD138LNN	0312227302	916887037	Joan of Arc: Her Story	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great history book!	I studied Joan of Arc for my college senior seminar, and found this book to be one of the most useful books on the subject of her life. Pernoud did an amazing amount of research on J of A's life and times, and had a great amount of information to share. She is also usually one of the more readable historians I have read; every now and then she becomes dry, but this is rare. She has written many books on J of A; this one is the best general reference. It has information on J of A, several people in her life, her time, etc. I would definitely recommend this book (and this author) to those interested in reading about history.	2001-08-25
US	50920562	R133UJLRU4GEI7	0609801708	146207108	Somebody Else's Children: The Courts, the Kids, and the Struggle to Save America's Troubled Families	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An excellent book!	I randomly came across this book in the library while looking up something else.  I thumbed through it a bit and then ended up checking it out and taking it home, where I have proceeded to read it almost constantly over the last couple of days (with occasional breaks for comparatively less compelling things like eating, sleep, class, and hanging out with friends).  I'm always a bookworm and am used to becoming absorbed in what I read.  However, this is the first time in quite awhile that I've been so caught up in a book, particularly a non-fiction book.<br />I like this book so much because the authors worked hard at giving a thorough and unbiased look at the juvenile justice system and the kids stuck in that system.  Of course, remaining completely unbiased is impossible; however, they tried to give a variety of points of view.  They also tried to keep from vilifying any one group (parents, children, social workers, judges, police, the community, and so on), while still indicating the complexity of the problem.  Case-studies were carefully chosen not to be sensational, but rather to exemplify the typical issues dealt with by kids in the justice system.  Finally, they interspersed the information from the case studies with general information about the law, the way such cases are usually handled, and so on, then applied this new information that they had given back to the case study.  This made it possible to learn a great deal about the system in general, while keeping it interesting because you could see the immediate application to one particular kid that you had learned about.  This added to the book's general readability.  All in all, this book is an excellent, well-written book that has the possibility of moving us a long way towards an understanding of these complex issues.	2001-05-02
US	50920562	R36N80DY1TZ3JE	0553270257	912651978	Lincoln's Dreams	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Not this author's best	I've become quite fond of Connie Willis recently, and decided to try this book out.  However, it never really worked for me.  &quot;Lincoln's Dreams&quot; has many of Connie Willis' trademarks, but for some reason it wasn't as good.  The story and characters weren't convincing enough to make me really believe in the story line.  I appreciate solid looks at difficult or emotional topics, but in this book I couldn't feel myself caring.  I reached the end and thought indifferently, &quot;Oh, so that's what happened.&quot;  Connie Willis also has the habit of taking several plot twists and characters and winding them around each other in such a way that until you finish you don't know what's going to happen.  Normally I enjoy that about her writing -- I appreciate trying to figure out how different elements will come together, and rereading the book (which I always do!) to see how things work now that I know the ending.  With this book, though, I didn't feel like the various elements came together well; it was like looking at a 3-D movie without the proper glasses, and seeing two images that ought to match up but don't.  I definitely recommend this author (&quot;The Doomsday Book&quot;, &quot;To Say Nothing of the Dog&quot;, and &quot;Bellwether&quot; are my 3 favorites, in that order), but not this particular book.  The only reason it gets even 2 stars is that Willis is a good enough author that the book still had some merit.	2001-04-30
US	50920562	R1RWPTK24CRRKU	0805060731	909009635	Understood Betsy	Books	5	18	18	N	N	One of the best kids books I know!	I read this book countless times when I was younger, constantly checking it out from the library.  I rediscovered it recently after finding it again at my college.  I reread it and found it just as good as I had remembered; not only this, I read it to my roommate, who also loved it.  This is the general reaction from those I've met who read it -- they loved it.<br />Many others have already given info about the story, so I'll try not to repeat that.  I think my favorite part is the way that the author addresses the reader, managing to communicate her own opinions while not distracting you from the story.  This particularly makes it possible not to take Betsy and her neuroses too seriously during the beginning when she's still afraid of her own shadow.  I also appreciate the author's sympathetic view of Betsy.  She could easily have described her as a difficult, obnoxious brat (which is probably the way many of her aunts' friends in the city thought of her), but instead she shows us Betsy's strength and true character that comes out gradually as she is challenged rather than coddled.  It is a definite success of the author that you grow fond of her rather than wanting to throw your arms up in the air in disgust (at the beginning of the story, anyway; by the end Betsy is very strong, capable, and worthy of our respect).<br />The setting is also very well-done.  As many others have mentioned, it gives you a strong feel for the time period and for what life was like back then.  This book provided me with one of the strongest mental pictures of what life in our country was like a century ago, and this picture was vivid enough to remain with me for years.  Well-done plot, likeable and realistic characters, a strong setting, the ability to make its readers remember it for years -- this book has the necessary ingredients for a true classic.	2001-04-18
US	50920562	R1S59R3Q4AKRC6	0671876171	158002942	Dun Lady's Jess	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Excellent	I read this book awhile ago, and loved it.  Being an animal lover, I appreciated the care with which the author described the horses, and how much personality they had; they were an actual part of the story, rather  than just beasts of burden (this is true to one extent or another of all  her writing).  I also appreciated the fact that while she included a  romance, sex wasn't particularly present.  I get tired of some fantasy  authors who seem to think that if they throw enough sex in, it compensates  for lacks such as plot, character development, or action; also authors that  just plain write it in all the time.  Finally, she had a somewhat original  and creative idea; others have written about animals becoming people or  vice versa, but none that I've ever read had as much realism in that  description, or as much consideration of what that would actually mean for  the individual involved (especially if it is an animal becoming human).   All in all, I loved this book and would highly recommend it.	1999-12-02
US	50920562	R1SZUTB96UP32M	0553213776	335090053	Kilmeny of the Orchard (L.M. Montgomery Books)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not so great	I've read the majority of LMM's books, and have liked to loved most of them.  This is the only one that I've really found to be a disappointment.  I agree with many of the other reviewers; the characters were flat, the  ending was too predictable, and the book itself was overly sugary.  It  wasn't a horrid book, because LMM is too good of an author to write a  horrid book, but it definitely wasn't good.  I would steer away from this  one if I were you (and I agree with one of the other reviewers; if you're  looking for some good LMM, try &quot;The Blue Castle&quot;).	1999-08-14
US	50920562	R1O16OCQ2QPMCY	0553280511	804782425	The Blue Castle	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An all-time favorite!!	I would definitely say that this is the best of all of L.M. Montgomery's books, and that's saying a lot.  She often gets caught up in descriptions, which, although nice, can make some of her books overly flowery.  This book  is refreshingly down-to-earth, and even most of the people that I know who  don't like LMM's style have enjoyed this book.  Besides being  down-to-earth, it is also hilarious!!  It shows a family, stuck in their  small-town ways to an extreme that Valancy says aptly that, &quot;We [her  family] are all dead already.  Some of us are buried and some of us aren't  yet; that's the only difference.&quot; (paraphrase)  They are also overly  complacent and unaware of their hypocrisy.  One thing that I really  appreciated about this book was that LMM used Valancy to ruthlessly  criticize many of the flaws of small-town life and becoming set in one's  ways.  For example, when Valancy went to care for her friend who was dying  from tuberculosis, her family's only reaction was to be angry that she was  spending time with &quot;that kind of girl&quot; (Cissy Gay, her friend,  had had the nerve to have an illigitimate baby).  That was my favorite  example, but many other times she attacked such attitudes of pious  holier-than-thou-ness, while still supporting many of the good parts of her  era.<br />Finally, I thought in many ways that this story was realistic.  I  would definitely agree that the last part (with Doc Redfern; if you read it  you'll understand) was a stretch; however, I felt that it was rather  unimportant in the overall story.  The rest of it was excellent, especially  the characters (well-drawn, original, and with both good and bad traits,  weaknesses and strengths, as any good book characters are).<br />The best  recommendation I can give for this book is that I'm sure I've read over a  thousand books, and this is one of my few all-time favorites.	1999-08-14
US	50920562	RKC3PVQJ4NGZJ	0553565923	559400936	Against the Odds: Tales of Achievement	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Deliciously interesting!	I just found this book last week, and thoroughly enjoyed it.It was L. M. Montgomery at her best.  Some of her stories get to betoo sugary, flowery, or with unrealistically nice characters.  In this book, however, all of her heroes/heroines are up against some large obstace which they must overcome with grit, determination, and just plain stubbornness.  It's hard to be sugary sweet and mulishly stubborn at the same time!  Because of this, perhaps, the characters all seemed real to me, and I enjoyed reading about them.  Many of the stories were also quite funny, besides, as people often took rather creative approaches to solving their problems.  I would definitely recommend this short-story collection.	1999-08-14
US	50920562	R18ZVS1P6NWA96	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Readable	I'd heard about this book and finally borrowed it from a friend as a bit of variety from my usual reading style.  It was hard to know what exactly to think of it.  I would have to agree with many of the other reviewers who  said that the characters seemed less developed than they could have been;  it would have been nice to go more in-depth.  However, I did appreciate the  relationships between the four main women in the family.  I felt that the  author did a good job of showing how it is possible to be angry at someone,  wounded and betrayed by them, but still love them and be close to them in  some ways.  I have to wish that the ending had been more developed, but it  had some good points as well.  All in all, I'd call this book average (but  would be interested in knowing more about what Haitian writing tends to be  like, because I know little about the culture, and understanding it better  might make me appreciate this book more).	1999-08-07
US	50920562	R1NOA4MIW2VZGD	1576731863	351551970	Redeeming Love	Books	3	7	15	N	N	A good book	I read this book almost right after it came out, largely because I love Francine Rivers' books.  However, I have to admit that I didn't like it as much as her other works.  I liked the characters, and appreciated much of  their development as people (I think Francine Rivers invents wonderful  characters).  However, I felt somewhat uncomfortable with the book.  I  generally dislike books that show a husband-wife relationship as being an  analogy for our relationship with God.  God has certain privileges that  another human being will never have, and shouldn't have.  Largely because  of this, I felt more distanced from the book.  I'd recommend earlier  Francine Rivers novels more (esp. the Mark of the Lion series and The  Scarlet Thread).	1999-08-07
US	50920562	RHUSBYQTSX4M4	0842335684	559388597	The Scarlet Thread	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Wonderful	I read this book for the first time a few years ago, and need to come back to it every now and them to reread it.  I have to say that in all the years since I read it, I've never quite managed to forgive Alex for making their  family move.  However, after that first decision was made, all of the  characters had bad decisions that they made that they could have  reconsidered.  I think I liked it because it had real problems, and was  realistic; no villains, no perfect saints, just ordinary human beings  trying (and sometimes failing miserably) to get along and care about each  other.  It was also moving to see how truly aiming to live a better life  (as Sierra did) could truly change circumstances even when they had gone so  far awry.  I also realized again that although others may make bad  decisions, we are only responsible for our own, but we are thoroughly  responsible for those.  Someone we love may hurt us greatly, but we can  still choose our reaction to them.  I would definitely recommend this book.	1999-08-07
US	50920562	R34ML225G0VPGS	0842377506	240212874	A Voice in the Wind (Mark of the Lion #1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Fantastic!	I've read a great deal of Christian fiction, and it seems sometimes that almost all of it is about either American pioneer days or WWII.  Seeing a book set in ancient Rome caught my interest, and I bought a copy as a  Christmas gift for my stepmother (we share books quite frequently).  I  later ended up reading it when I was living in France for a year; everyone  I know who's read it shudders sympathetically when they learn that I had to  wait several months to read the sequel!<br />That's to give you an idea of how  wonderfully gripping this book is.  I have yet to meet someone who didn't  like it, and all but one of the people that I've discussed it with  (including men and women) feel that this series is one of the best that  they've ever read.<br />It did have a few minor weaknesses (the key being that  Rome did seem an awful lot like a Conservative view of the US; the  anthropology student in me wonders if our culture was overly projected onto  theirs).  However, I loved the characters, and especially Hadassah.  She  seemed human and real, yet in many ways like a role model for what  Christians can strive to be like.  I would definitely recommend this book.	1999-08-07
US	50920562	R1GRJK6CMKEWMG	084230052X	327951572	The Atonement Child	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Worth Reading	I read this book a few years ago, and still remember it quite well.  The beginning was hard to wade through (Dynah's life sounds so perfect, wonderful, and sheltered, that even if you hadn't read the back, you know  that disaster will soon strike her life!), but after that it got better.  I  especially appreciated the way the hypocrisy of her college was pinpointed;  being commited to purity is good, but I've seen far too many Christian  organizations follow the letter of this law to such an extreme that they  forget the point.  I also loved watching the way Dynah struggled with her  situation, and the different phases she went through.  Her commitment to  making her own decision rather than giving in against her will to what  others wanted for her showed remarkable courage, especially considering the  sheltered, nearly conflict-free life she had led before her rape.  She is  definitely an admirable heroine.	1999-08-07
US	50920562	R27YQ5XJOBEEUO	0226094987	646497172	Cultural Misunderstandings: The French-American Experience	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Fascinating!	I just looked this book up yesterday (it was recommended in another book about France), and I devoured it in just a few hours.  I spent a year living in France, and want to go back someday (although maybe not to live),  so I wanted to try to understand more about the French culture.  At some  points I realized what a huge undertaking this was: to truly try to  understand someone else's point of view!  Yet this book is immensely  valuable as a guide.  I can't say how accurate the descriptions of French  culture are, although many of them seemed to ring true from what I  remember.  However, the description of American thoughts seemed quite  accurate (which gives me more confidence in the French descriptions).  I  have to say that I appreciated the chance to look at my culture as if it  were a separate culture; it was a distinctly odd experience, but good.  I  would recommend this book to anyone of either culture who at least desires  food for thought, as well as some valuable insights.	1999-08-06
US	50920562	R14PMIR5D46WF5	0879515562	718597218	The Ukimwi Road: From Kenya to Zimbabwe	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Interesting	Remaining rather drained from one of her other recent trips (the trip to Transylvania, for D. Murphy fans), Murphy decides to take a trip just for fun (the fact that she decides to bike through several African countries  alone at age 60ish for a relaxing break tells the reader a great deal both  about her and about what the book will be like!).  She isn't even planning  on writing a book for this trip.  Yet as she travels along, she sees the  ravages of &quot;the slim disease&quot; (ukimwi, or AIDS) everywhere.  She  also sees some of the causes of this, such as the poor treatment of women,  imported Western values that haven't meshed with local customs (leaving  societies in a state of moral limbo), and so on.  This prompts her to share  some of her experiences with us.<br />This book has many good qualities.  The  best is the author herself.  She can describe her situations aptly; I  greatly appreciate her language.  She is genuinely interested in learning  about the places she visits, and in meeting their people.  She isn't afraid  of new experiences, and knows how to laugh at mistakes that she makes, and  be flexible when needed.  Another likeable aspect of the book is the places  she visits.  Unlike many trips, which only visit big or well-known areas,  Murphy makes a point of visiting non-touristy villages where she can  actually see what African life is like.  Lastly, while her discussions on  AIDS are difficult to read, they seem more frank than could be found in  most books.<br />On the other hand, this book did have some weaknesses.  The  biggest weakness that I saw was her opinionated responses to situations.   While her thoughts are certainly more likely to be accurate than those of  many tourists who just go in, take some pictures of famous monuments, and  take off again, she certainly has her own share of bias.  It made me uneasy  to read it.  I've read some of her other books; I tend to admire her and  think I have a fair clue of roughly how much to accept or reject from what  she says.  Yet in this book she spent far less time on observation and far  more time (it seemed) on sharing opinions.  She also didn't seem to know  exactly what she thought.  For example, she criticized many missionaries  for pushing abstinence, blithely ignoring the cultural ramifications of  that.  Yet at times she indicated that the solution was the current  situation, except with more condoms, at times a return to polygamy was  advised, and at times she thought the Africans should indeed go for sex  with just one parter, their spouse.  And would women best be helped by  gaining more freedom, in a Western style which didn't fit with the rest of  their culture?  In sticking with African ideals that cruelly exploited them  and left them extremely vulnerable to AIDS?  Granted, no one knows the  answers to these questions and so uncertainty is certainly okay; however, I  felt that she overcriticized others who genuinely want to help.<br />All in  all, this book was a good book, and I would recommend reading it.  It gives  a great deal of information in an interesting way.  However, I would  caution all readers to take her comments with a grain of salt, and consider  carefully her opinions.	1999-07-30
US	50920562	R16VXV7I4V098L	0061057894	662929796	Acorna: The Unicorn Girl (Acorna series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fairly Decent	I just finished reading this book this past weekend, and was checking to find information about the sequels (which shows that I liked it at least somewhat); I looked for them at the local library, but all of the many  copies were checked out!<br />Many others have given a basic plot summary, so  I won't bother.  I liked many of the characters.  Acorna in particular  seemed rather young, naive, but with a huge heart that was willing to do  whatever necessary to help those in need (even at the risk of her own life  and well-being).  This seems a lot like what I'd expect if a unicorn (at  least one that fits several of our stereotypes about them) became a human  being.  I also liked the fact that many of the other characters seemed  quite human, and the interesting point that the authors made that people  may be neither good nor bad.  For example, one of the main characters was  an extremely rich old man who was extremely corrupt, but in a good way;  i.e., he would bribe officials, pull whatever strings he had, etc., but all  for the purpose of trying to save children from slavery.<br />On the other  hand, the story was somewhat predictable, and seemed a bit too easy.  I  won't say what happened at the end, but even though the authors set it up  well, I had the feeling that it had all been sewn up a bit too neatly.   Besides this, some of the plot twists were almost too simplistic.<br />If you  can make it beyond that, the end was the kind of ending that you really  want to have with such a situation, and I have to admit that a part of me  would have been disappointed had it turned out otherwise.  One final saving  grace is that the conclusion didn't sew up all the romantic situations; I  get quite sick of books where everyone automatically and unexplainably end  up with the right person after a few quick pages.  So overall, I'd call  this a decent book; not wonderful, but not a bad book, either.	1999-06-29
US	50920562	R3L3PLIKJ4L84X	0664325610	21749006	The Magic Meadow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful!	I read this book several years ago, and then again, and then again, and then again....  I loved the ideas included, the suspense about what the children's fate would be (would they manage to escape to their secret  location?  Would all of them make it?), and the characters.  The story has  a sort of bittersweet joy at the end, perhaps because it both shows how  much humans can screw up and what they could potentially reach.  My only  annoyance was at the end, which to me seemed to stop too suddenly and left  readers hanging (I won't explain, for those who haven't read the book).   Definitely recommended!	1999-06-25
US	50920562	RXSL5BJHCBMMT	0879513608	48379163	Muddling through in Madagascar	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting and Entertaining	This is the second Dervla Murphy book that I've read, and I really enjoyed it.  I especially loved the way that she managed to work a great deal of history and basic information in without making it seem that way.  For  those who haven't read it, this is the story of a trip that the author and  her daughter make through Madagascar.  It is funny, interesting, and fun to  read.  I especially appreciated the way that Murphy generally managed to  avoid the condescending view of people in Third World countries that  becomes so obnoxious after awhile.  I also appreciated the way that she was  honest about mistakes that she made and seemed quite able to laugh at her  own errors.  Much of the information seems accurate as well; when I was  most of the way through the book I read most of another book giving a basic  overview of Madagascar, its history, culture, and etc. and the majority of  it fit very well with what Murphy discribes here (the differences could  probably all be explained by the fact that this other book is several years  newer).  While I have never been to Madagascar, this book made me feel like  I know it and the world a bit better.	1999-06-25
US	50920562	R3LI8QNKT16VU8	0385314388	706433545	Motherless Daughters: The Legacy of Loss	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Extremely helpful	I recently ran across this book at the place I'm volunteering, and had to check it out.  I read it, and was unbelievably affected by it.  My mom died in a car accident when I was nine (I'm twenty now), and this book struck  many chords with me.  Above all, it was wonderful to be able to hear that  I'm not the only one who has gone through many of the experiences that I've  had.  I've been extremely blessed with many wonderful friends who have  listened to me and supported me.  I've also had a wonderful aunt who  stepped in and tried to mother me as best she could (I'll always be  grateful).  However, I've never had any other close friends who lost their  mothers.  This book helped fill some of the void that comes from having no  one to relate to, no one else who understands what you're going  through.<br />A few other reviewers have said that they felt that this book  portrayed motherless daughters as victims, something they didn't  appreciate.  I disagree.  One of the points of the book was to discuss some  of the unique aspects of being a motherless daughter; many of the results  of such a loss are obviously going to be negative.  However, I appreciated  learning about a lot of the difficulties that many women in my situation  face; it was nice to know that I'm not alone, and nice to have some clue of  what those in a different situation than mine have faced.  I actually found  that reading about these problems was helpful; I could look at these  difficulties, say, &quot;Okay, here's some of what I'll face/am  facing,&quot; and gave me the strength to know that it's doable.  It also  made me appreciate many of the strengths that I have had, such as a  supportive, available father and friends who are willing to listen even  when they don't completely understand.<br />This book may not be for everyone,  but I found it to be very healing and helpful in understanding some of what  has gone on in my life for the last eleven years.	1999-06-08
US	50920562	R25M0UTNSC56OC	0879513721	906682799	On a Shoestring to Coorg: A Travel Memoir of India	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Informative and a Good Read	I had this author recommended to me by a friend who knew of my interest in other cultures, so I found this book in a local library and started reading.  I find it to be amazing, especially for a journal of her travel  experiences.  She uses language which gives the book almost a flavor of  fiction (I find that many nonfiction authors use very simple and often dry  language, making such books harder to read).  Occasionally she seems to  have the perspective of a stereotypical European, but in general she  manages to have a neutral viewpoint and tries to explain Indian customs  from the point of view of Indians, as well as her reactions and those of  her five year old daughter.<br />As far as I'm concerned, one of the best  parts of this book is the way that it describes various parts of India in  amazing detail, as well as giving some background on the area.  Unlike many  tourists, Murphy is not content merely to wander around seeing usual sites;  instead, she tries to get to out-of-the-way places, and to experience life  as much like an Indian as she can (while acknowledging that this can never  be fully accomplished).  This is perhaps one of the best  &quot;outsider&quot; descriptions that I have read, as she really makes and  effort to understand her new surroundings.	1999-06-01
US	50920562	RG9IPPEH1G4P0	0441328091	178447398	The Hero and the Crown	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely amazing	I have read a great deal in my life, but Robin McKinley is my favorite author, and this is one of her best books.<br />As usual, I appreciated McKinley's excellent character sketches the most.  Aerin is a hero, but she  is believable.  She has fears, she has weaknesses, she doesn't always make  the right choices, but in the end her strengths win out over her  weaknesses.  I especially appreciated this after having read &quot;The Blue  Sword&quot; and then having come back to this book.  In &quot;The Blue  Sword&quot; Aerin is merely a distant hero, almost like a goddess.  In this  book you learn that she was a real, approachable woman.  Her shyness,  eventually overcome for the good of others because she couldn't let them  down no matter what they thought of her, made her easy to relate to.  I  also appreciated the characterizations of Tor and Luthe, and the ways in  which McKinley showed Aerin &quot;growing up&quot; and moving beyond  mortality (and hence in a way outgrowing Tor, although she still cared for  him fiercely).  I ached when I read the ending, imagining what it must have  been like for Aerin, Tor, and Luthe.<br />The only fault that I could find  that seriously bothered me was that the triumph over the enemy (involving  the crown; I won't say any more) was accomplished too easily.  The book was  leading up to a large climax, and then he was killed in only a chapter or  so.  However, everything else was great.  Many people have mentioned a  sense of darkness that the book held; I didn't see any of that.  It wasn't  all happiness and light, but it focused more on the positive and on Aerin  triumphing against enormous odds, partly because of her own inner strength  and partly because of outside help.  It showed fighting and battle  realistically, with pains and aching and tiredness instead of just flashing  swords.  I have read this book more than once already and am looking  forward to continuing to read it.	1999-03-03
US	50920562	R1CDA6ZPUR31F1	044100069X	150984734	Deerskin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Robin McKinley's Best	Having read many of the other reviews, I feel the need to respond to them first.  I agree that this is not a children's story (although I read it as a young teenager, and feel that many, perhaps most teenagers could handle  it quite well).  I also recognize that it deals with some of the darker  sides of life.  However, I personally enjoyed that; I get tired of reading  about happy, cheerful stories or great traumas that are instantly healed.   It was good to get a look at a rather painful issue, and in a way that did  not gloss over it or make light of it.<br />I have always appreciated the ways  in which Robin McKinley can describe her characters and settings so  realistically and yet so magically.  I felt that she did an especially good  job here.  Lissar is a realistic character.  Like many other victims of  abuse, she doesn't know how to escape or what to do (to the person who  complained that she took so long to leave, I would like to point out that  in a situation where she has never been allowed to be a strong individual,  where her father has complete and total authority over her, and where her  world has been completely torn apart in the last two days, her shock and  numbness are understandable).  For quite awhile she manages only to  survive.  Yet in the end she comes to peace with her past and is able to  move on.  This comes with the help of many of her friends, but it is also a  tribute to the amazing strength that she has in herself, strengh inherited  from her mother but used to totally different ends.  She is another in the  long, noble line of Robin McKinley heroines who begin as timid, thinking  little of themselves, yet discover amazing depths of strength to help those  around them.  She has her faults, and makes bad decisions, but ultimately  she manages to come to grips with her past.  She seems a believable  character.  Ash and Ossin especially are also believable, and have an  amazing depth of personality and development (especially Ash, whodoubles  as someone who would willingly sacrfice anything for her friend, and as a  humorous character who brings a bit of levity to the book).  Having known  many people who have endured similar hells, and having been given the  privilege of being to help support some of them in their healing, this book  really rang true for me.  It echoed what my abused friends had said, and  many of the responses of Ossin and Ash echoed what I myself had  felt.<br />This book also has many different levels.  The only way that I've  found to understand them is to read it, reread it, and so on, over and over  again.  This is one of those books where each time I read it I discover  something new.  I had the chance to analyze this book for a class I took,  and it was one of the best academic experiences of my life.  I highly  recommend this book to anyone willing to openly and honestly deal with some  of the tougher issues in life.	1999-02-25
US	50920562	R2F6I0VRCUY6RQ	0553289411	282856370	The Plains of Passage	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Decent	I've read all four books in the series.  I loved the first bookespecially. This book seemed to me to be the weakest of the four.  Asmany others have noted, the majority of it was made up of plant lore. The actual amount of plot made up perhaps 100-200 pages, I'm guessing (although I haven't counted to make sure), out of 800 pages or so.  I too am curious as to how the series will finish, although it's been long enough that I've pretty much moved on.  If it were available, I would suggest the condensed version of this book.	1999-02-25
US	50920562	R4RI7P9Y5MNTU	038071681X	808697305	Ghost Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Incredible	This book was absolutely amazing. I read it first in high school and recently reread it, only to discover that it was equally good the second time around.  I appreciated Torey Hayden's creative use of language (which  really helped the story come alive), as well as her honesty.  She described  times when she said exactly the right thing as well as times when she  messed up.  She also resisted the urge to give a neatly tied up conclusion,  defering to the truth that real life tends to be messy.  This was a story  that should not have to be told, because children should not have to endure  such a life.  However, since many children do undergo this suffering, I  greatly appreciated the chance to read an account that was open about the  horror of it, yet sensitive in its presentation.	1999-02-25
