US	50935356	R2OJ0D1MU2XSF7	0743233484	751504452	Cross Bones (Temperance Brennan)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	really well done; a great read	I'm surprised at those reviewers who are disappointed in this book, and I wonder if perhaps they haven't read it?  Sounds like they've written reviews just to promote their favorite, the Da Vinci Code.  Well, Reichs' book isn't the Da Vinci Code, which was a fun and fast, though flimsy, read.  Reichs, on the other hand, give us a full, intricate plot, an assortment of interesting characters, some politics and religion (or politics of religion?) thrown in with the action, and a tight, masterful story that was not ripped off from a non-fiction book from years ago.  Thus, her story is inventive, and each plot twist is plausible.  Add to that, her writing style has matured -- less choppy, less awkward in the forensic parts.  And the story is sound scientifically, which is fun for those of us with a tendency to like the technical as well as the mysterious.  Also, I for one enjoy the personal life that Tempe has with her daughter, her pets, and her coworkers -- this makes her a very real person as well as one that all of us women can relate to.  I admit that I can do without Andy Ryan -- we hear that he's a nice guy and great in bed, but out of bed, he's childish.  His statements and his antics are better in the hands of a twelve year old, not a grown man in his forties.  Tempe, dump him -- get yourself a grown up man.  They're a lot more fun.  Otherwise, this is a great book, fast moving but not furious so you've time to absorb a lot of the facts and theories and science and archaeology.  Also, the insights into the social situations in modern Israel are fascinating and pertinent.  This is the sort of book where you can't wait to see how it turns out, but then want it to go on for pages and pages more.  I'm very glad I bought it and read it, and a round of applause to the author for giving us something interesting, fun, intelligent, intriguing and plausible.  Highly recommended as the best Reichs has written so far!	2005-08-03
US	50935356	R1Q2XLL2F3W462	0316000647	657855247	Absolute Friends	Books	3	8	25	N	N	Oddly constructed, shallow characters, sometimes boring	It's difficult to describe what this book is about.  This could be because very little actually happens, or if it does happen, it does so in a kind of retrospective narrative with the action deleted, the (bitter) emotional reaction stressed.  The plotline is fairly obvious, but the characters are so shallow they disappear into their own story, but then they may suddenly reappear and lecture, lecture, lecture for several pages about things we've already heard and already know, so please shut up and give us some action scenes!  We follow the senseless friendship of two men,Ted and Alexander/Sasha.  There is never any clear reason why these men remain friends, except because they've discovered that nobody else likes them.  Sasha is driven to object to everything his father -- a pastor -- believes in, which is not a good way to lead your life.  Who cares what your Dad believed in, I want to shout.  Find out what you believe in and Sasha, by the way, go get a job.  Well, Sasha is one-dimensional and often incoherent, but the same can be said for Ted.  Ted, though, is merely disappointed in his father.  Any stronger reaction seems beyond his capacity.  Ted is too dull to become obsessed or driven.  He tends to be tossed around by others, passively accepting what is and avoiding the attempt to change things so that he can create what is not.  However, in contrast to Sasha, Ted tries to capture a decent life for himself, but he fails continually.  His failures don't arouse sympathy because he doesn't have much struggle to him, either with others or inside of himself.  He's a \\"loser\\" rather than a hero.  This could still be made interesting, but the author doesn't carry that off.  It seems like the political message, which is unclear for the bulk of the book, is more important than the characters -- which is sad since if we wanted politics, we'd be reading the newspapers, no? Yet we follow Ted through his failures, which are well-detailed.  What successes he has are told sketchily, as if they are something to be ashamed of.  You long for an interesting character -- a wicked woman, maybe, or a psychopathic bad guy, to liven up the story.  You don't get these.  Instead, a few spies show up, the recruitment happens, and Ted is suddenly in an espionage story with Sasha as his partner; however, the events in the story are told in the same emotion-based narrative, minimizing the action and the suspense once more. Ted also meets the only intriguing characters in the book, his Turkish girlfriend and her son, Mustafa.  If Le Carre had wanted to write a novel that objected to the Iraq war, he might have done so by focussing himself on these characters, fleshing out their story, and taking Ted to the Middle East in their care.  It might have been fascinating, for instance, to explore tribal competitions and hatreds as they come up against an overwhelming hatred of Americans or the Western cultures.  But that didn't happen.  Instead, the story continues in a rather dull manner until a bad guy finally shows up.  He too gives you pages and pages of lecture on his sensibilities, after which his solution for combatting American imperialism is exposed.  You laugh because it is so absurd and so trivial.  After this, the book has one fine moment as Ted talks to his former boss, Amory, about the state of the world.  Then the end comes rapidly, and sad to say, it is an ineffectual ending in all respects.  Pre-publication publicity had this book as being fairly anti-American.  I noticed that it was barely so, amounting to only a few sentences, and consider The Constant Gardener a lot more anti-American, or rather anti-Corporate dominance, than is Absolute Friends. I think the author would have had a more effective political statement if he'd stuck with a similar plotline to his previous novel, or he would have had a much better book if he'd chosen to do what he does best, write suspenseful stories with strong characters, and avoid too much politics in a politically confused world.  Not a bad read, but not a good one either. Try The Constant Gardener or his farce, wonderfully written, Tailor of Panama.  This novel might leave you dozing.	2004-01-13
US	50935356	R1KJBLPEIWEZ3R	1904485065	94348378	A Yorkshire Fable: Thirty Knitting Designs	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Nicely photographed, some nice sweaters	The book itself is nicely put together, with color and b&amp;w photos of the sweaters.  There is at least one sweater in here that will appeal to you, although most are designed for younger women.  There are a few for men, none for children.  Most are inventive, which is refreshing since Rowan's typical line has styled itself towards the simple with bulky wools, etc.  These sweaters take more work, and they are made either with the new line of Yorkshire tweeds or with Rowan magpie.  Color photos accompany the instructions.  Lots of fun to browse and contemplate, though I haven't made anything from these patterns yet so cannot say if the patterns themselves are easy to use.	2004-01-07
US	50935356	R3TVFE97KDH7K6	0486238245	768576807	Vicar of Bullhampton	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Excellent	The title of the book might lead you to refrain, since it implies that the story is about a country vicar.  One wonders how exciting that might be?  However, this book is probably one of Trollope's most suspenseful and well-rounded novels.  You have a romance, an unrequited romance, and a young woman at the heart of it whose lack of fortune could lead her astray.  Mary Lowther, visiting the vicar and her friend, his wife, receives a marriage proposal from Harry Gilmore, the local squire, who at the encouragement of the vicar, has fallen desperately in love with Mary.  Mary has offered no encouragement, and despite the pressure of the vicar and his wife to accept the marriage offer, refuses.  Once at home, she falls in love with a visiting relation, but because he is penniless, cannot marry him.  Thus she is tossed about on the tides of marital opportunities, continually pressured by friends and family to turn to Harry Gilmore.  This portion of the story is rather like a &quot;one woman stands against the world&quot; scene, and it is intriguing, frustrating, and ultimately inspiring as Mary finds her strength not just in love but in herself.  If romance doesn't interest you, Trollope has thrown in a second storyline, one unusual in his books.  A murder occurs, and the vicar sets about attempting to solve it because the suspect -- even he suspects him -- is a young man from his neighborhood who has been skirting the law and morality for some time.  Add to that, we have the character of the beautiful Carry Brattle, seduced by a man outside of wedlock and then tossed out of her home by her insulted father, forced to turn to prostitution in order to eat and find shelter.  Her trials and her reform, including her family's eventual forgiveness of her sins, is at once indicative of the harsh lives imposed upon women in Trollope's era and a hope for a future where women are not viewed as the property of men but as persons in their own right.  Finally, the vicar does have hisown story as he insults a nobleman in his parish and is thereby made an enemy, the nobleman going so far as to build a new church right up against the vicar's property as an insult to the vicar's faith and effectiveness as a man of religion.  How this resolves itself is a lark!  The story is exciting, and each storyline is so well intertwined that the switch from one to the other as the book progresses is smooth.  Never a dull moment in this one, you'll find that from the first page, you cannot put the book down.	2003-09-22
US	50935356	R2P7LED1JI4AQ3	0192837141	328694740	The American Senator (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good but sometimes tedious	The American Senator of the title is a stuffy, boring old man who wants to understand English politics and morality but also wants to impose his own morality upon the English.  Sadly, the book could have been far more exciting without this character.  On the other hand, the characters remaining are interesting enough.  This book is mainly about love, or about the pursuit of love or fortune.  The scheming and penniless Arabella Trefoil is engaged to a man who we quickly see is far too good for her, and what he sees in her beyond her remote beauty is a big question that is never quite resolved.  However, wanting a fortune, she maintains her engagement in private while denying it in public, thus finding herself able to pursue the local squire, Lord Rufford, who is also taken with her beauty but on advice of friends, becomes reluctant to truly woo Arabella.  Social interactions between all these parties, including their antecedents, are quite interesting and fill a good portion of the book.  On the other hand, another love affair of lesser merit but far more honesty is that of Mary Masters and Reginald Morton, a romance against the Masters' family wishes who pressure both her and the unfortunate Larry Twentyman to make a match.  Intrigues from minor characters, plots and subplots, though rather too much mention and detail of fox hunting, still this is a fun read.	2003-09-22
US	50935356	R2ZA6P88J4ZD97	070111715X	183946358	John Caldigate (Zodiac)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Pretty good book	John Caldigate is a somewhat weak-willed man where women are concerned, as well as where gambling occurs, so he has managed to bankrupt himself as well as get himself &quot;engaged&quot; to several women through the course of the book, all because he can't say No when he should.  Women cause him the greater trouble, but when he eventually returns home to England as a wealthy man (hard work was what made him so) and marries the woman he truly loves, his greatest troubles are now with business associates from his past and his wife's relations.  What poses a disaster for himself and his wife (mother of his infant son) is a relationship he had with a &quot;fast&quot; woman, an actress, while he was making his fortune in Australia.  She shows up in England, wanting money, and claims that she is actually John's wife.  Thus John's marriage is bigamous, his son illegitmate, and his wife downfallen. The extent to which her family interferes, even to kidnapping the wife, is outrageous and dramatic.  In fact, most of this book is high drama.  It is very entertaining, and it resolves itself nicely, although all John's former &quot;fiancees&quot; do spend much time being thankful that they never married him.  There is humor here, and there is tension.  A very good read.	2003-09-22
US	50935356	R2AVQZ7QOIWAQY	1404388133	642920068	The Three Clerks	Books	3	25	31	N	N	Dull	I've been reading Trollope's works, and coming across the Three Clerks, thought it might be as interesting and as exciting as the novels I had already read.  Not so.  Generally, Trollope takes his time at the beginning of his books, setting up characters, situations, locations -- so for about one hundred pages or less, you have a rather slow-paced, dull introduction.  Then the suspense tends to emerge and the books become difficult to put down until the very satisfying (in most cases) ending.  However, The Three Clerks lacks suspense.  Partly, this is due to Trollope's negligence in fleshing out his characters; otherwise, it is the result of concentrating on his exposition on the civil service and less on his characters and their private situations.  The book becomes Dickensian in some respects, and Dickens isn't exactly known for clarity or excitement.  There being no suspense about the characters, and in fact no great interest in any of them, the book is more of an endurance test to read than a pleasure.  <br />One problem could be that Trollope tries to handle too many characters.  The Three Clerks of the title are Harry Norman, his best friend and eventually worst enemy Alaric Tudor (who steals his promotion and then his lady-love), and Alaric's cousin, the dissipated and indebted Charley Tudor. Of these young men, Harry Norman in his innocence, having much to learn about the ways of men, women and the world, would have been the most interesting to pursue, but Trollope concentrates on Alaric and his ambitions which eventually get him into a courtroom and jail -- though with a surprisingly light sentence for a man who swindles a client's fortune.  The young men are matched to three young women, the Woodward sisters.  Gertrude, the eldest, is cold-hearted and ambitious, and though Harry Norman loves her greatly, makes a heartless but intellectual decision to unite herself with Alaric, whose ambition she admires.  She pays the price for this, but she does so in thetypical female role, always viewing her husband as something near to a god, never blaming him for his failings and his crimes, and standing by her man through the trials that will follow for her and her children.  Gertrude, like Alaric, gets her comeuppance, but she is also symbolic of the dependent woman of her time and often of our times, sticking to a man through all insult because the world has convinced her that not only can she not stand on her own, but she deserves no better than to be the support of a man whose ethics and behaviors are questionable.  Linda, Gertrude's younger sister, who is loved and romanced but then dumped by Alaric, who cold-heartedly and ambitiously wants the oldest daughter rather than the one he professes to love, is like Harry Norman an interesting character who should have been explored but who gets little mention in the pages of the book.  She is superceded by her baby sister, Katie, who falls for the useless rogue Charley and thus falls into an hysterical wasting-away that is so annoying that you almost wish . . . Well, never mind what you wish, but all six of these characters are dissatisfying and foolish, victims of their era and their stations in life.  Add to that, we have Mrs. Woodward, mother to the three women, who is very nice but ineffectual and though having the opportunity to succeed, succumbs to being helpless without a man to take care of her.  She is of no benefit to her daughters and actually far too negligent in her mothering of them, leading to the disasters and potential disasters in the book.  Lesser characters include Undecimus Scott, the villian who leads Alaric astray, who is not as evil as he is expected to be but merely manipulative and conniving, essentially a bore. There is also Uncle Bat, a retired sea captain who makes a home with the Woodwards and generally drinks himself into a stupor.  Or members of the civil service who both support or compete with Harry and Alaric in their rise in their careers.  Everything ends well for Harry, at least, and Linda -- two good people get their just reward.  Charley Tudor turns into a Trollope himself, writing stories for the literary magazines of his day, although the author reproduces his stories within the context of the book, which introduces just another method of dulling the pace and the action of the novel itself.  Plenty of pages here to skim or skip, the book could have been half the size but still have retained the essence of the story -- on the other hand, if the author had only developed his characters and followed the important ones more closely, we could have had a finer novel of psychological and moral import.	2003-09-22
US	50935356	R1LCPU5R8GRVYD	0786867930	543948528	Profiles in Courage For Our Time	Books	2	21	36	N	N	Disappointing	Though it is laudable that Caroline Kennedy would want to keep her father's spirit alive by revising the concept of his original book to something more suited to courage in our time, the essays here highlight little known people.  Some of their stories are touching or inspiring, and the writing is quite good.  However, the book is devoted to liberal politicans, the message being that only liberals show courage.  I don't think, for instance, that the men and women serving as rescuers at the world trade center tragedy worried about each other's politics.  I think this book is really an attempt to cause schisms and controversies, none of which are constructive in these tenuous times.  Great courage is shown by many, but C. Kennedy profiles only the few and only those who suit the political philosphy that the authors wanted to support.  Most insulting to me, though, was that only one woman is profiled here.  Only one woman has courage, in a world of 3 billion???  And how about the courage shown by political dissidents everywhere, not just in the US?  Kennedy couldn't include everyone, but the stories here, though interesting, are only examples of some courage (token female included).  These people didn't put their lives on the line, only their comforts.  Nor does one incident, even one not performed single handedly, such as James Florio and the gun control bill, merit inclusion in this book, but single incidents are covered as if lifetime achievements.  Sorry I read it -- despite the good press, the political bias, the masculine bias, the domestic bias, well, just made me angry.	2002-05-08
US	50935356	RO3H80VAF6U4I	074341702X	536372882	The Wonder of Girls: Understanding the Hidden Nature of Our Daughters	Books	3	42	60	N	N	Should men write about women?	Gurian's book has some good points and some poor ones.  Good things are the summaries and commentaries on others' work or on feminist philosophies.  Some of the anecdotes are interesting albeit told too much from the author's .. viewpoint. The author rarely questions whether his perceptions and thus his conclusions could be wrong! There is too much repetition of information already published or chatted about extensively, such as eating disorders.  Too, other books that the author cites were written by women, and quite frankly women have a better perspective on women's reality than do men, no matter how much a man thinks of himself as an objective and informed observer.  Men can only witness women's lives, critically if they are prone to disliking women or too compassionately if they tend to belittle and infantilize women (the author tends to both of these extremes but is either in the more compassionate category...).  <br />Men cannot live our lives and therefore cannot comprehend what happens biologically, socially, or personally.  Haven't men always claimed to be confounded by women?  Isn't this confusion on the man's part often turned into the age-old female-bashing? No, men don't understand.  Gurian needed to be more humble in taking on this subject for his book, and I just feel that he is not.  I was actually quite interested in the idea of reading an informed man's viewpoint.  In the end, I was disappointed and at times even shocked.  Gurian wants to go the current mainstream, claiming that women can be traditional while being respected as being men's equals.  Well, that didn't happen in the past, so why should it happen after we read his book?  Too, traditional women are fading away -- traditional womanhood now comprises possibilities and not just stereotypes and domesticity, at least here in the USA.  <br />I was very shocked and insulted by Gurian's primary premise, stated boldly by the author in the first few pages.  His conviction is that girls and womenNEED to be dependent upon men.  It's not social pressure that determines this nor the economic slavery women were subjected to -- it is an essential biological need like needing to breathe air.  We women NEED dependence. Gurian cites scientific evidence to back up his claim.  His evidence is straightforward, but then he does the sloppy science that has always been popular in male scientific circles -- he concludes what he wants to conclude, using science to back up his assumptions and opinions on feminine inferiority rather than letting truth fall out of the science.  Girls aren't passive or dependent.  We are calmer and more aware of consequences.  We think, assess and judge before taking action.  Boys are the opposite, taking action immediately and suffering the consequences later on.  Somehow, I don't think this makes the boys dependable and the girls dependent.  Quite the contrary, really, but Gurian doesn't go in this direction.  He doesn't, really, sufficiently explore gender interdependencies even though they are quite obvious in his ancedotes.  He misses truth, being content to still propagate the male standards that have inhibited women's lives for far too long.  Plainly, girls and boys, men and women, have a need and a right to enjoy their lives as they choose, based on their preferences, their dreams, and their personalities.  Enjoyment comes from many sources, but one great pleasure is in finding an individual who becomes a partner, who delights in a loving, interdependent relationship with you as you delight in one with him/her.  This isn't a NEED for dependence on the part of woman or man.  The need is for sharing of your life with someone who finds you important and who cares about your happiness. Healthy grownups are capable of equality in social, work and romantic situations.  Girls don't need to be dependent -- girls are instructed to believe that their roles are dependent and inferior, and so in their adolescent years, they practice this dependence until it becomes a form of deference, weakness, vulnerability, incompetence and focus on body image as the reason why they are meaningless failures rather than focus on education and accomplishment in order to become meaningful to themselves.  An unwritten message in this book is that if girls aren't dependent on men, if they don't buy-in to Gurian's natural need for dependence theory, then men will not want them as mates.  Horrors!  A good man, a man worth loving, will want a woman who has fulfilled herself.  Only men who are afraid of women's abilities and intellect will want the dependent sort of woman.  <br />I wouldn't recommend giving this book to a girl to read.  It will present some unsatisfactory messages, preventing the girl from figuring things out for herself or from making her own choices.  The stress on motherhood annoyed me.  Not all women can or will become mothers.  Women also deserve to lead balanced lives where marriage and mothering obligations are only one part of the total picture.  The book itself, while interesting in parts and rather kindly in others, is still too biased towards a man's views and expectations, for all that the man tends to try to convey that he is a feminist too.	2002-02-14
US	50935356	R1YANZ1GEPQM2D	1893762033	317488558	Handpaint Country: A Knitter's Journey	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Fantastic!	Advertisement for this book began nearly two years ago.  I don't know if this was meant to be a teaser or if the publisher simply had extensive delays in putting out the book.  I won't say that the wait was worth it, since I'm too impatient by nature to claim that.  However, if I had known what a fantastic book they were publishing, I think that at some point I would have become unnervingly desperate for my own copy.  I suspect that Cheryl Potter was determined to surpass the classic Knitting Across America, and she has!  The quality of this book is magnificent.  It's an art book, the coffee-table book that belongs in every knitter's home.  Large format, artfully decorated, with hundreds of pages that are simply covered in beautiful photos of natural landscapes, yarns upon yarns, colors upon colors, and the artist designers of the yarns.  La Lana is here, and Rachel Brown and Mountain Colors, and many more. The patterns for the sweaters, all focused on handpainted yarns but easily adapted for other yarns if you are not fond of handpaints, are almost secondary to the beauty and quality of this book -- and yet these patterns are all exciting and lovely (most are even easy to make!).  You'll find sweaters and vests, all inventive in how they use one or more handpainted yarns in order to display the variations of colors to best advantage.  There are a few children's sweaters, but most are for women.  Many are classic styles with an interesting twist, either with the use of yarn or in the styling of the sweater.  A few are a bit weird, there to satisfy those of us who want something playful.  We even get a knitted pair of slacks.  I didn't count how many patterns there were, but I'd say close to thirty, in that range or possibly more.  Additional sweaters are shown in photos, which you could easily copy without the directions.  A good portion of the book is taken up with stories about the artists who created the yarns, all quite nicely written, which preface one or morepatterns for their yarns.  Photos large and small dot the pages, keying you in on all sorts of stunning and artful displays of sweaters and tapestries.  Once through all these wonderful pages, you'll find at the back of the book is a thorough and well-illustrated section on creating your own handpainted yarns.  I have never seen a finer book for knitters and cannot find words to praise the high quality of this product -- well worth the price and a total enjoyment to read.  Absolute beginners may be uncomfortable with the complexity, but then again they can appreciate all the possibilities for knitting handpaints.  Intermediate and advanced knitters will be delighted. Highly recommended as an addition to your knitting library.  Sure to be one of those books that you look through over and over, just for the pleasure of it, even if you never get around to knitting the sweaters!	2002-01-28
US	50935356	R1T1W2BQ8THTYY	0375413006	898368219	Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage: Stories	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Really enjoyed it	Alice Munro's short stories don't always impress me -- some seem too sedate, others too offbeat.  However, this collection was very enjoyable.  The lead story, which shares its title with the book, is wonderfully ironic and very well written, with characters that are drawn quickly and even sketchily, and yet they have such depth that if I were a critic, I would consider this Munro's masterpiece.  All the stories in this collection refer to acts of love, but they are realistic.  A woman has an affair that lasts a few hours but in her memories is maintained for a lifetime.  Old childhood friends meet again as adults with the outcome far more and far less than the woman expected (the man, as usual, expected nothing).  Women learn about themselves not just through romantic relationships but through the loving or non-loving family relationships they find.  These are good stories, moving at the calm pace of reminiscences.  Very well done.  I was sorry when I finished the last story.  I wanted more.	2001-12-11
US	50935356	RLN4ZJVG6SYJL	1883010896	589670471	Knitter's Stash: Favorite Patterns from America's Yarn Shops	Books	4	29	33	N	N	A few nice sweater patterns	This isn't a great book; on the other hand, it's not a bad one either.  When I first got it and opened the pages, I was quickly disappointed.  For one thing, the layout was too much of an attempt to be artsy rather than straightforward. There is lots of &quot;white space&quot; -- blank areas -- that only raises the cost of the book to the consumer but provides no value for the added cost.  The pages are covered in graphic designs that detract from the text.  There are brief quotes in the sidebars that are unnecessary, advice that a beginning knitter has already picked up.  And like someone else mentioned in a review below, the photos of the designers and their shops, which would have been very interesting to see (particularly since the designers were wearing sweaters that were prettier than those in the patterns) are faded. Eyestrain to look at them.  Whoever planned the format of this book failed miserably.  On the other hand, the full-page photos of the patterns in the book are exceptional -- it's just that there are numerous sweaters for children (I don't have any) and babies (don't have any) or for toys or what I'm calling the doodads, the little knitting projects that publishers have been using lately to cheaply fill up space in the knitting magazines rather than giving us more sweater patterns (I think it's pretty obvious that most people knit sweaters and not doodads).  Then again, the glowing reviews below, particularly the one that just gushes over the book, led me to believe that I would get something fantastic.  This is no Knitting Across America.  I closed the book and tossed it aside, very disappointed.  But two weeks later I browsed it again, already knowing it was not a great book and thus less disappointed.  And I got involved, finding a few sweater patterns were actually exceptional.  I'm glad I own the book now, particularly since I'm in the process of starting two of the sweaters and adapting a third to a more favorable pattern for myself.  And Ilike a few of the camisoles, which will be quite pretty for summer under suit jackets.  I still don't have an appreciation for the doodads or the numerous kids sweaters.  I think the authors would have done a better service to knitters to put those in a separate book for those with an interest and let us have more adult sweaters.  Then you could say that this was an attempt at bringing us another Knitting Across America, although I doubt we will ever see anything as fine as that book again. As it is, Knitter's Stash a fairly nice book, perhaps a good addition to your library if you don't mind spending the $$$ and getting only a few patterns that you will like.	2001-12-06
US	50935356	R54T4XT2LLU6H	0517118297	569473707	Jane Austen: The Complete Novels	Books	3	28	28	N	Y	Disappointed in quality of book, not contents	I was searching for a good compilation of all the Austen novels so I could have it available for when I get the &quot;bug&quot; to read them all once again. Rather than keep running out for paperbacks, I wanted a single volume that I could keep pretty much for the rest of my life, available at my whim.  I thought this might be the volume, but I was disappointed in the actual quality of the book.  It is printed on newsprint, which ages very quickly.  This book won't retain it's neatness or newness for very long.  If you are looking for something durable, beware.  Try the Everyman editions -- they look much better and though the collection will be pricey in comparison, in the end you'll have books to last a lifetime.	2001-10-29
US	50935356	R3G37S0OOSQP6P	0952537540	463391562	A Season's Tale: Thirty five knitting designs from Rowan for men, women and children	Books	3	45	50	N	N	Little excitement, ordinary sweaters	I can't ever say that I've looked through a knitting book and wished that the photographer had paid more attention to the scenery that to the sweaters.  I felt that way with this book.  I think the location was Scotland, which could have been fun to see, but unfortunately most of the location is blurred or cramped by the shot.  This is unfortunate because the sweaters were, for the most part, so disappointing that if the landscapes were better, the book might have made me a lot happier. Hargreaves published a fantastic book many years ago, with very stylish, sometimes intricate, but truly beautiful sweaters.  For many years she's been one of Rowan Yarns' lead designers, especially favored by those of us who weren't Kaffe Fassett fans.  Her sweaters are normally innovative but not way-out, striking and easy to make, feminine without being silly or childish -- in summary, truly wonderful.  She's had a flair with Rowan yarns, coming up with designs for every walk of life or moment of your life, from casual to formal, outdoors to party chic.  But in this book, she seems to have lost her inspiration.  The intent of the sweaters is to present styles for the return of the old Rowanspun line of yarn (I'd prefer they returned their lightweight and DK weight lambswools!).  The yarn aside, too many of the sweaters have a clumsy look to them, and too many are commonplace -- cropped crew neck cardigans or cropped sleeveless pullovers, things you could knit yourself without even thinking.  I did like two of the sweaters, but not enough to purchase the yarn and make the effort at knitting them.  I'm glad that I purchased the book, because like with Rowan magazines, it is a quality product, nicely printed and a good collector's item, but you may be as disappointed as I was in the dullness of these ordinary sweaters.	2001-10-11
US	50935356	R2YMWPJBCWHL19	1564773728	46300805	Irresistible Knits: Sweaters for Men, Women, and Teens	Books	3	23	24	N	Y	Didn't find the sweaters irresistable . . .	The book is nicely produced, a high quality paperback made in China.  Photos of the sweaters are fairly clear, with only some emphasis on poses of the models that obscure the sweaters here and there.  The instructions seem clear also.  The patterns call for Paton's or Naturally yarns, fairly inexpensive although Paton's is difficult to find in the US -- try a Canadian resource like Ram Wools in Winnipeg.  The fault I found in this book is simply that I found most of the sweaters unappealing.  The cover title and photos led me to believe that I would find more stylish sweaters than I did.  I purchased based on one of the cabled sweaters I saw in an ad for the book -- only to find on seeing a full-size photo that the sweater is much too juvenile for me.  Hence my disappointment, although the sweaters are all quite nice for teenagers or young adults.  But then, most of the sweaters seem ordinary, things you can find in any simple knitting book or things that you could actually create yourself without needing any book/instructions at all.  The patterns are arranged by season, and the more interesting sweaters are in the winter section.  Those for spring and summer are typical, tiny cotton sweaters without much inspiration.  A plus is that the sweaters are sized for adults and teens.  In a season when we are seeing a good number of knitting books being published, this book may not be able to compete with those that are more stylish -- on the other hand, this is a very good book for the advanced beginner looking for a little challenge.	2001-09-24
US	50935356	R2U798SECLMS5X	1883010586	955565867	Meg Swansen's Knitting	Books	2	33	77	N	N	High quality publication but not a very good book	I've had this book for over a year, and I browse through it from time to time.  There are a few sweaters that I happen to like, although I have found that the knitting instructions are very, very chatty rather than precise (Swansen's personality is more important to her than the knitting).  The yarns used -- I ordered<BR>some from Schoolhouse Press -- are the cheaper, lower grade wools, almost suitable for rugs rather than knitwear.  Some of these sweaters have promise if you are willing to convert them into much higher quality (and not much more expensive!) yarns.  It's is difficult to convert, however, since Meg does us the favor of not including diagrams or measurements in the patterns, ultimately thinking we'd all make them in the same yarns and get the same stitch gauge, which is surprising from a woman who is supposed to be a knitting expert.  But, yes, some of the sweaters are quite nice and photographed well, though I did get tired of seeing the author in most of the photos, reading the author's rather dull autobiography and reading the author's overly-personalized text -- rather like this is a book about Swansen with the sweaters incidental.  The sweaters themselves are presented nicely, but the color of the yarns used, for the most part, are awful.  Either the colors are too bland, blending into each other, or they are horribly garish.  Swansen needs to take a class in color theory for garments.  Shudder.  Swansen presents only sweaters for adults, and another surprise is how effeminate are the sweaters for men.  I guess the men where Swansen is from (is it Minnesota or something?) are much, much sillier than those here on the east coast.  I also found the book way overpriced.  This was a big bestseller when it first came out, owing to Meg's friends who posted gushing reviews.  Knitters are always hungry for new books, and I don't begrudge having this one added to my library. I would recommend, as I think another reviewer did, that you look at this in a store before purchasing -- the garishness and roughness of the sweaters, combined with the chatty and often unhelpful instructions may be a caution on whether or not you want to invest.	2001-09-12
US	50935356	R3MU3QWG1IX6GZ	1561585114	143093185	Brilliant Knits: 25 Contemporary Designs by Brandon Mably	Books	5	68	71	N	Y	Nicely produced book of men's and women's sweaters	As a warning, almost half of these designs are already published in Rowan magazines.  The remainder, all new for this book, are often variations on Mably's style, which is similar to the well-known Kaffe Fassett's, although much simpler.  The sweaters are really abstract, skirting the avant garde, although the fundamental styles are basic pullovers and cardigans.  It's the color schemes that are dynamic and innovative, although Mably shows most of the sweaters in bright, bold, and sometimes almost garish color combinations.  Since I prefer a more classic and muted look, it is difficult for me to see past the colors to the actual sweater and choose my own schemes.  However, if you like lots of color, this book is an excellent choice.  Most of the yarns used are Rowan (with some Jaeger), which is a sad choice since if you have used Rowan yarns, you are aware that as soon as a pattern is published, Rowan stops manufacturing the yarn.  For instance, some of these patterns call for DK soft, which was recently discontinued.  Pluses to this book are the introduction, which is concise and helpful, bearing tips on handling intarsia and fair isle in a nicely laid out presentation.  Also, Mably introduces each pattern with a brief notation that describes his inspiration and intention, adding a charming touch.  The patterns themselves are clear and simple to read, as are the large-size black and white charts, although there are no size diagrams, making it difficult to substitute yarns or handle your differing gauge.  A huge plus is the photos of the sweaters.  Unlike some publishers who concentrate more on the dramatic pose of the models, obsuring the sweater, this publisher paid lots of attention to showing the sweater.  You know exactly what you are looking at and getting, including two or more photos of the sweaters, even with back views, to give you a strong idea.  The book is really excellently executed, on fine quality paper.  A nice presentation.  I'm only sorry that these sweaters aren't my sort -- but if you like Mably's cover sweater, I'll bet you find you'll want to knit most of those included in the book!	2001-09-05
US	50935356	R31KZNQ2UMXUJ5	0743204441	607215606	The Surrendered Wife: A Practical Guide To Finding Intimacy, Passion and Peace	Books	3	46	64	N	N	A step backward is not necessarily a step forward	Must you surrender to your husband's or boyfriend's will or needs in order to be happy yourself?  My professional and personal opinion is no, but you should be aware that in relationships there is a process of giving among equal partners who love each other.  This is not &quot;surrender&quot;.  We normally call it supportiveness or loving behaviors.  Now, I am only half-way through this book, but I find that the idea of demonstrating loving behavior (fairness, kindness, emotional support, etc.) is not being presented here.  Instead, I see that the author has traded her former style of overt, dynamic control over her husband for one of hidden, passive control. Manipulation is just that -- passive control of another person.  This is not love.  That the man responds is just proof of how well the right manipulation methods work -- everyone responds to people who pretend they love us through flattery or other attentions.  I haven't seen anything yet in this book that corresponds to the type of relationship one has when partners truly love and thus respect each other.  What I do see is a relationship that is going to go stale in a few years, as the wife gets bored with manipulating the man and the man gets tired of being deceived.  However, this book is a good resource for those men and women who want this sort of relationship.  Insecure women tend to seek marriages where they are subordinate and thus have a mate who rules and runs the household.  These women have an easier life because they really don't have to accomplish very much and certainly avoid any challenges.  If that is what you find you need and you don't want to change your perspective, this book will help you achieve your goals.  Some men will be pleased because their insecurities lead them to want to feel they are masterful, and having a subordinate woman is the easiest way for such a man to feel that he is masculine.  Don't be ashamed if you are this sort of man or woman -- the world is full of variety so that we can all find what will make us happy.  Though this method is not suitable for me, the book can help bring happiness to those men and women who want this sort of relationship.  Just be aware that you (the author included) may outgrow this kind of thing some day.  Mature adults are capable of equal relationships, and one or both partners in this &quot;surrendered&quot; relationship are bound to seek it in the future, probably away from their current partner.  Well, I have to get back to the book now.  I don't agree with it, but I have to say that it is nicely written and doesn't take itself too seriously.	2001-01-11
US	50935356	R2FC9LG8UAQIN5	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Hard to put down, exciting and compelling	Only Le Carre can put together a novel with deep, quirky, but realistic characters together with suspense that draws you ever onward to the final sentence.  Far better than his last novel, Single and Single, The Constant Gardener presents us with an everyman hero, someone dedicated to his work but distracted by his pleasures, a man who discovers that he is oblivious to the tensions around him until an ultimate, irreparable tragedy brings him painfully to awareness.  Though she dies at the start, still Tessa Quayle is present in the book through memory sequences as her husband Justin's quiet/passive but strong love for her drives him to understand her death, even if it is caused by forces that he cannot hope to avenge.  This is a classic page-turner, hard to put down, so you may find yourself skipping meals and rest breaks because the next few pages are calling to be read.  It's also a hefty book, well over 400 pages, so at the end you feel like you've had a banquet rather than a snack from the more lightweight suspense authors.  The novel is satisfying, intriguing, fascinating, and significant.  As other reviewers mention, the evils of irresponsible corporate tactics are exposed.  The pharmaceutical industry is Le Carre's target, which is appropos to some scandals we in America are hearing about -- like a recent New York Times article exposing that our personal physicians may be hired by pharmaceutical companies to dispense drugs to us that we don't need or want in order to use us as unwitting guinea pigs.  Other things come to mind: automobile air bags, MTBE in gasoline, genetically-modified corn.  His story is right out of the news headlines.  But it could be any industry that risks lives or even dismisses the value of human life in order to pursue their ultimate god, financial gain.  I enjoyed Le Carre's espionage novels, but now he has found another niche that is contemporary and meaningful.  I hope for many more novels to follow this one.  As a note, if you liked The Constant Gardener, don't miss Tailor of Panama.  Exposure of that book was damaged by critics who didn't like Le Carre drifting into irony and humor, but Tailor of Panama is just as well written,well-plotted, and suspenseful as The Constant Gardener, and would serve well as a follow-up should you have gotten addicted to Le Carre.	2001-01-04
US	50935356	R14N6HNSJYVS05	156477337X	382218144	The Ultimate Knitters Guide: Patterns and Techniques	Books	4	68	68	N	N	Interesting approach, Rowan patterns	The sweater designs are exclusively Rowan, from back issues that you may have missed.  There are a few for children and several pullovers/cardigans for women, most in classic, wearable styles.  The book is an unusual design.  The cover is normal, but inside are two sections, split horizontally, that are independently spiral ring bound. The intent is for you to page in the upper section to the sweater you want to knit.  Just underneath, you page in the bottom section to the techniques you need to know to knit the sweater, like casting on or making a buttonhole.  Then the sweater pattern and the technique are both shown at the same time, making it easier than paging through several books to find what you need.  The technique instructions are very good, with lots of photos to guide you along, but they mainly cover fundamentals, making this a nice book for a beginning knitter.  Only Rowan patterns aren't written for beginners, so there might be some frustration unless you are at the intermediate level or just plain daring in learning to knit.  The book is high quality, with very good photography and printing. I found it clumsy, though, since the two spiral bound sections tended to sag and it was hard to turn the pages without tearing them.  Still, the major benefit is that these are Rowan patterns, long out of print.  They are not repeats from the recent Best of Rowan book and they are practical styles that are wearable everyday, making it well-worth adding to your library if you like Rowan.	2000-12-13
US	50935356	RJY3XHOE8RIN0	1573890200	55342979	Vogue Knitting: American Collection	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	High quality book. Designs from 90's issues.	If you have all or most of the 1990's issues of Vogue Knitting, you will already have all the sweaters in this book. Vogue always publishes a quality book, with large photos, diagrams, and good instructions, so purchasing the book is worthwhile if you have missed the 90's issues.  As with Designer Knits and Very Easy Knits, both nice books, you get recommendations for updated yarns when the original is not available.  Even so, I was disappointed.  Those sweaters chosen for this collection are ones that I never considered all that appealing.  A good many are weak attempts at avant garde sweaters and few for a more conservative, classic style are included.  Many of these sweaters are also appropriate for very thin women, but normal bodies might not be complimented by the styling.  One plus is that the tapestry afghan is included in case you missed it, and the author attempts to do something similar to Falick's Knitting Across America by including two page biographies of major American designers.  This adds interest to the book but then those two pages could have been put to use to include more sweaters -- the usefulness if really up to you to decide.  I was much happier with Designer Knits and Very Easy Knits.	2000-11-13
US	50935356	RNIWGNQCPKYT7	0071357394	709474262	Heroes, Rogues, and Lovers: Testosterone and Behavior	Books	4	10	18	N	N	Interesting but incomplete	Dabbs provides an interesting, very readable presentation on the hormone Testosterone, but though I found the book informative, I missed the more incisive analysis of what is really cause and what effect.  That testosterone levels are high doesn't necessary say that they motivate aggressive behavior, for instance, but an impulse to be aggressive can cause a rise in testosterone to allow the body to follow the mind (born out in published data from neurology/neuroscience).  Science needs to have more proof rather than use assumptions for conclusions.  The portions on the so-called high-testosterone women (really, they just might be high self-esteem women) were probably the most interesting in the book, although I got to wondering why so much study focuses and fixates on &quot;male&quot; hormones but so little on women's?  Are estrogen and progesterone just too &quot;inferior&quot; to consider?  I hope the authors or someone else departs from what looks like an obsession with masculinity in the sciences and look into the other half of the population.  I for one would be very interested in a book about high-estrogen men!	2000-10-09
US	50935356	RUMO22D4UG21T	0684849569	185008673	The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	3	12	44	N	N	Interesting book, lacking an honest perspective	Scholars look at evidence and make assumptions.  They look at other scholars' work and make arguments.  But they don't do what would be truly beneficial -- experience and objectively conclude from real world  situations.  Boys and girls in our schools have become a new battleground  for liberal and conservative, masculinist and feminist policies, and the  disadvantage is always with the children, who are forced this way and that  rather than allowed to pursue their own tracks.  <br />What the author here  neglects to mention is that in the past, boys often had the good fortune to  have a heavy feminine influence as they grew up.  Their mothers, sisters,  and girlfriends have always &quot;raised&quot; boys to be men.  They were  taught morality; their aggressiveness (and not too many are aggressive --  to say so is to err by generalizing) was channeled to creative tasks; and  they were given dreams to inspire them.   Women no longer fulfill these  roles.  Women are out doing things for themselves that they once pushed men  to do.  That is why the boys are neglected, and why our next generation of  adult males will lack the moral fibre and social connections of the past.   <br />This shows the strong and meaningful purpose women once had in our  society as far as the maturity of males.  However, I would never contend  with the right of women to do things for themselves.  I too am one who is  not interested in being thus linked to a man, as a mommy rather than as my  own person.  Men are going to have to adapt -- boys will need a school  program that teaches them morality and encourages them toward adulthood.   Violence, for instance, is a tool of the ignorant and the emotionally  neglected.  It is not normal in men.  After all, female aggression has been  denied for decades, even though as girls we all knew any attempt to be  active, intelligent, or successful has always met with condemnation by our  family or peers.  <br />This book is an attempt to explain a socialproblem,  but the author would have done better to consult and react to the  psychological literature rather than the philosophical.  Philosophers only  think; psychologists study, look for answers, and solve problems.  Also,  there is the opportunity now to look at real scientific evidence on the  male brain from all the published brain scans, even those on male  aggression or violence (and by the way on female aggression and violence  too!). Worth reading for another woman's perspective, but if you want to  really get involved in this issue, read the psychology and visit the  schools.	2000-06-29
US	50935356	R3V4BZU31KRJFS	0312200110	458330699	Skin Game	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Experience the mind of a troubled person	Kettlewell has the courage to expose her inner mind to us as an attempt, on paper, to try to come to terms with her own disturbing behavior and her puzzlement, even contempt, for it.  This is a brave book, as all such  memoirs are, as well as a controlled one -- as much as a person who is out  of control can be objective about their actions.  She doesn't come to  sufficient conclusions, however, about her self-mutilation.  Perhaps that  was not her intent, since this is memoir, not psychiatry.  Low self-esteem  certainly played a part, as we can see from her narrative, and is probably  derived from extreme media influences.  Based on media/society, our bodies  whether plump or thin or thinner are never good enough, our faces are never  good enough, our minds and hearts and actions are never good enough.  Young  people today are suffering from these stressful messages that really cut to  the core of who/what a person is, how we define ourselves, what value we  have in others' eyes -- all of which are important to adolescents.  Cutting  may be a way of agreeing with society that we don't have value hence the  actual act (the destructive slash of the razor), then finding that we do  have value because we feel something real (pain) and see something real  (bodily damage).  Or it might be a version of the slow suicide also present  in society -- from eating disorders, thrill seeking, drug or alcohol  overuse, even indiscriminate sexual relations.  Cutting reminds me of the  idea of a scorpion stinging itself nearly to death when surrounded by a  ring of fire.  Social stresses, as well as an inability to function at  physical and mental wellness levels due to poor nutrition or depressed  immune systems and even emotional depression, are so severe today.  It is  not surprising that adolescents are the most vulnerable.  They are most  susceptible because they are just leaving the influence of their parents  for experiences with the outside world on the way to developing themselves  as persons/adults.  The messages they get from exploitative media,  competitive peers, and an overall disinterested society do not make for  normal emotional development, as we can see in Kettlewell's intensities.   Cutting, in a way, is a cry for attention and love/self-love -- things no  longer readily available but essentials for human development and survival.   I'm sorry the author had to endure what she did, but pleased that she did  survive into what can be a happy, productive adulthood.  As a word to the  author or to anyone suffering this sort of damaging behavior/need, many of  us have grown up under very difficult, unloving circumstances -- it is  possible to endure and make the most of your life, finding pleasure and  happiness as independent adults.  For anyone enduring self-destructive  behavior, this book is a good read to help you find illumination about  yourself and not feel so alone.  Anyone interested in self-mutiliation will  find this book a well-written adventure through the pain and confusion of  modern adolescence.	2000-06-22
US	50935356	R10UTSO062HDYK	0849383498	854143314	The Communications Handbook	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The big book of telecommunications	Don't waste your time with any other book on telecommunications.  Choose this one.  The book has extensive, well-written information covering so many aspects of telecommunications that it would be difficult to say that  anything was left out.  There is good coverage of the newer ATM and SONET  technologies, although Internet (TCP/IP) is just glossed over and video is  covered briefly.  I found lots of info on fiber optics, wireless (hundreds  of pages for each) and satellite transmissions. You'll need a calculus  background for the equations, of which there are many in sections on  modulation, compression, transmission, and speech/coding.  Other sections  have less or no mathematics, for those not so inclined, and coverage is  good on networks, principles of telephony, standards like ISO, CCITT, and  two extra chapters on data recording onto magnetic/optical media.  Small  details are not left out -- things like channel coding, coversion to  digital, echo cancelers, even how to splice and join fiber optic cables.   Each chapter ends with a glossary of terms and references for further  reading.  Reading this book -- and it is a substantial read, not something  for a weekend, but more like the whole summer -- gave me an appreciation  for the intricacies of telecommunications that I hadn't had before -- and  I've 15 years experience in the industry.   It is well worth the high  price, and well worth reading if you need or want details on telecom.   Highly recommended for anyone with an engineering or technical background  as well.	2000-06-21
US	50935356	R1UCV4CL0I69Q6	0387915206	296967333	Instant Notes in Biochemistry (Instant Notes Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent brief presentation of numerous topics in biochem	The book is a very good overview of biochemical processes, covering many significant topics.  Detail level is moderate -- not as detailed as an indepth study, which I found a bit disappointing in topics that were of  special interest to me, but on the other hand the information is fairly  complete for review or introductory purposes.  Lots of diagrams supplement  the text, and most provide an extra illumination of the topic, which I  appreciated.  Topics cover: cells and structure, amino acids and proteins,  enzymes, antibodies, membranes, DNA and RNA (which could have been left out  of this book, since it is covered in much more detail in the Instant Notes  in Molecular Biology volume), protein synthesis, recombinant DNA,  carbohydrate/lipid/nitrogen metabolism, respiration (Krebs Cycle), and a  final chapter that covers muscle contraction, nerve conduction and  neurotransmitters -- although the info here is too brief -- and collagen.   Viruses are also covered, altho again they are covered in more detail in  Instant Notes in Microbiology.  I'm using this book along with with  Biochemistry by Champe (great illustrations -- more info on the biological  processes) to get a basic understanding of biochem.  This book could be a  great reference for a student/professional review or for a quick look-up of  processes or concepts.  Brief mention is made, also, of medical conditions  resulting from errors, mutations, or deficiencies in the topics covered,  but I would like to have seen more of this type of information (e.g., the  realistic consequences).  Otherwise, very pleased with the book, both  information contained in the text and the layout of the diagrams.	2000-06-01
US	50935356	R3Q1JZNR5PM31M	038791563X	900971286	Instant Notes Chemistry for Biologists	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fine presentation of chemistry for review	I was searching for a book that would serve as a review for a basic chemistry class I took years ago.  I still remembered some of the concepts, but not in enough detail to be comfortable with information I was studying  in neuroscience.  I came across this book and found exactly what I needed  -- everything is covered, even some organic, in a neat, easy to follow  layout.  Lots of diagrams, lots of explanation.  The writing is precise,  with no words wasted, as each concept is presented, explained, and  associated with related processes.  A good book for anyone reviewing  chemistry or wanting a quick, reasonably complex introduction.	2000-06-01
US	50935356	R2GL5IA0QG21A	0121585328	129174832	Principles of Molecular Virology, Second Edition	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent summary of the field; easy to read	I'm not a biologist, but having developed an interest in virology, I searched for a book that would explain the basic principles in an understandable manner without too much jargon and too detailed  illustrations or explanations (or too high a cost!).  This book provides an  overview of the field and sufficiently detailed but understandable  information on virus structure and processes.  Written well, it is a  readable text with numerous illustrations that enhance understanding of  important principles.  Frankly, it was also enjoyable to read.  The   chapters in some detail cover the viral processes like attachment and  replication, the genome, and infection and the immune system responses.   Both plant and human viruses are studied, and specific examples such as the  picornaviruses (polioviruses), TMV, adenoviruses, retroviruses, and HHV/HIV  are specifically mentioned in each chapter, adding example to observation.   The author is also not shy about telling us where molecular virology is  lacking information, which should provide clues for graduate students  looking for research topics.  What info the author does include (and this  book is wealthy in facts) is presented clearly and understandably, so that  a beginner like myself or even an intermediate student would find this a  useful reference.  This is a great book for anyone who has a working level  of scientific training in any field.  I highly recommend it to anyone  looking for more understanding of the microbial universe -- based on the  text, I have a better perspective on the competition and cooperation  between microbes.  What fascinated me most is that the book details,  without specifically stating it, the intelligence at work in creating and  sustaining the viral structures, in helping them become a success even  though their success is a detriment to humans.	2000-05-15
US	50935356	R3COCA43B48K48	0525945342	384241603	The Virus Within: A Coming Epidemic	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Couldn't put it down	The subtitle of the book is The Coming Epidemic, but based on the tale told within, the epidemic is here -- the symptoms merely haven't appeared in all of us yet.  This is not a detailed medical/scientific book, but a  human story about people with integrity who are making their best effort,  despite resistance from the biased traditional medical community, to  uncover the source of such diseases as AIDS, Chronic Fatigue, MS, and some  bizarre neurological diseases.  Little is said in the book about a powerful  issue:  how latent but deadly infections are the legacy of a sloppy  vaccination program, one where animal viruses (e.g., SIV) infected vaccines  that were still released into the market, despite the manufacturer's  foreknowledge of the possibly epidemic implications.  I would like to have  read more of an expose of this matter, since it is floating around in the  news right now with the accompanying stern denials from pharmaceutical  companies (rather like the recent denials from the tobacco industry? ) and  suppression from the obsessed but trivial media.  The Virus Within also  details the struggle of several medical researchers to find the source of  certain plaguing illnesses, and their conclusion is increasingly based on  the HHV-6 virus.  Regush presents data that is nearly overwhelming, but he  also gives us a good account of the supression of this data by the medical  powers who, as Regush implies, are more interested in profits and  protecting reputations/egos than they are in finding the truth about  disease.  In the end, as Regush lets us know, people suffer the ignorance  of their personal physicians and the belligerent censorship of the American  medical industry through tragic illness and death.  It is a moral story,  really, one where the reputation of the famous must be preserved even at  the cost of one or more human lives, as if that were a fair trade for  pat-on-the-back old-boyism.  And one gets the message that, if HHV-6 is not  recognized as a culprit in many fatal or debilitating diseases, our chances  of living healthy, productive, pleasurable lives will be very small.  This  is a very real, sympathetic story.  It is also revealing.  Regush explores  the activities of a number of research scientists, from the big names (big  egos) to the dedicated few who work despite failing funding, political or  academic censure, and refusal of the journals or media to grant  publication/public attention. Further, as a medical thriller, it is  well-written, compelling, and fascinating.	2000-05-04
US	50935356	RR24GB9VR9OO1	157076140X	814286239	Celtic Knits: Over 25 Designs for Babies, Children and Adults	Books	4	58	58	N	N	Mainly for adults, less creative than her children's books	Bliss' book contains more sweater patterns for adults than for children.  The children's sweaters lack the charm of Bliss' childrens books, which are fantastic, so if you are searching for a child's pattern, look at her other  books -- particularly her books that contain Aran designs, which are quite  unique and simple to knit, although all her children's books are equally  wonderful.  As far as designs for adults in Celtic Knits, I was both  pleased and disappointed.  The designs are nice and some are fairly simple  to knit.  One of the pullover Arans is actually quite splendid. But on the  whole they aren't as Celtic as I'd expected -- there are a few fair isles  (for children) that are rather plain in comparison to other Bliss designs.  The sweaters on the whole are less Celtic and more English -- more like  reading a Rowan knitting magazine, so they are very nice but not what you  might expect.  Also, if you are expecting these to be more or less adult  versions of her children's designs, you'll also be disappointed.  Bliss'  style for adults is much less intricate and unique.  The book itself is of  high quality.  The patterns are very detailed, although diagrams and  measurements are missing, which makes it more difficult to be certain you  are knitting to size or to adjust your gauge (I wish publishers would  realize this -- they are giving those of us who rely on measurements  user-unfriendly books).  Photos of the sweaters, like in many of Bliss'  books, are over-posed -- you see a stylish photo of the model and the  background, but have very little chance of actually seeing what the sweater  really looks like, and if you knit like I do, detailed instructions don't  always reproduce what you see in the photo, so I at least would like to  have had better pictures so I could knit directly from them and not  struggle with the instructions.  Bliss uses a variety of yarns, from Jaeger  or Rowan: wool, cotton, and chenille.  Thus there is something here for allseasons.  She also includes a few men's sweaters.  Despite some drawbacks,  this is a nice addition to a knitter's library -- a quality book with a  variety of sweater designs to satisfy any taste.  If you are new to Bliss'  designs, please do look into her children's books. I purchased Classic  Knits for Kids first and fell in love with them, and they can be resized  for adults with some effort -- but it's worth it.  Bliss is one of the best  British designers -- attractive, durable, and charming sweaters.	2000-04-28
US	50935356	R2CE0YU2AAIWKP	0060930721	720094078	The Second Brain: A Groundbreaking New Understanding of Nervous Disorders of the Stomach and Intestine	Books	5	315	320	N	N	Intricate,highly recommended story of medical research	Gershon's book is really two books in one:  a memoir or exposition of all that is involved in medical research (including the politics), and a detailed explanation of the neuroscience and neurochemistry of the enteric  nervous system (e.g., digestive tract).  This is not a simple book to read  -- it takes concentration, and I certainly had my highlighter out to draw  attention to several terms or ideas I wanted to recall.  The narrative can  get fairly scientific, but to add to your understanding the author uses  commonplace allegories or diagrams -- and just when it starts to get too  &quot;heavy&quot;, he gives you a break by turning autobiographical,  telling stories about his research community that are very interesting.   This isn't a textbook, but rather a lengthy exposition on a man's search  for scientific truth.  I am a scientist myself and often wonder what draws  an individual to a focused &quot;obsession&quot; with a single idea, and  Gershon in his pursuit of knowledge through experimentation and   conceptualization gave me insights into one type of scientific mind.  The  digestive system, via Gershon's work, is the source of neurotransmitters,  so there is a substantial amount of information here for anyone interested  in neurology, neuroscience, psychiatry, and of course the behavior of the  digestive tract.  This is not a book for anyone who has a digestive problem  who wants a cure -- it is a book for understanding digestion and/or the  nervous system.  However, if you are interested in deep science, this is  one of the best written and thorough books I've read.	2000-04-28
US	50935356	R37WSNKCYJA9SC	0471347418	323840028	I.B.S. Relief: A Doctor, a Dietitian, and a Psychologist Provide a Team Approach to Managing Irritable Bowel Syndrome	Books	2	178	186	N	N	Be careful on published medical advice	This is one of many books being published that explain and propose cures for IBS.  All the books I have read prior to this one were heavy on dietary precautions but not as concerned with the so-called psychological aspects of IBS.  As a psychologist myself, I have noted the growing tendency, when  physicians don't know what causes a disease, to quickly dismiss it as  psychological.  As a sufferer of IBS (started after I took an antibiotic),  I wasn't content with being told that it was entirely or partly in my head,  and I got relief from most symptoms by visiting a nutritional doctor (not a  nutritionist) who tested me for food allergies using an IGG blood test.   Once eliminating the foods I was sensitive to, my IBS improved dramatically  to the point where I do not need medication.  Nor am I affected by  stressful situations as I was prior to watching what I ate.  My biggest  concern with this book was the advice on loading up on wheat fiber.  If you  research gastric diseases, IBS is very similar to celiac sprue, which is  caused by extreme allergy to wheat.  I found this misguided, because I  don't doubt that some cases of IBS are celiac sprue -- just not diagnosed  because traditional physicians believe it only occurs in infants.  Our  digestion is being assaulted by processed foods, junk food, pollutants in  our drinking water, disease spread by unsanitary food services, and even  plastic and styrofoam chemicals leeching into the liquids we drink.  Like  me, if you are a sufferer from IBS or any &quot;new&quot; disease, you may  be getting frustrated by publications that claim cures, including  psychoanalytic cures, rather than revealing the reasons or sources of  disease.  This book just doesn't cut it if you are a person interested in  answers, and I do worry about the cure proposed here.  If you want to study  up on gastrology, getting more info that you can use to search for your own  cure, don't neglect the information on digestion and the stomach's nervous  system in The Second Brain by Gershon.  There are plenty of books on Food  Allergies also on amazon.com -- a number are good sources for all sorts of  symptoms, not just IBS.	2000-04-24
US	50935356	RWTSQ5I1RO0DU	0767903358	145386936	The Highly Sensitive Person in Love: How Your Relationships Can Thrive When the World Overwhelms You	Books	4	198	202	N	N	Rambles a bit; however, still enlightening	Aron's first book, The Highly Sensitive Person, was groundbreaking.  The author pioneered in presenting a well-researched theory on what was essentially an inherited temperament leading to an unusual level of sensitivity to one's environment. Being sensitive to this degree, one sees  the subtleties others miss, feels the depths others fail to experience, and  essentially lives a fuller life just by observation, let alone by  experience.  However, this attunement has the downside of over-stimulation  of the senses, resulting in feelings of discomfort or panic and a need to  retreat into a far less active environment.  When I first read Aron's book,  I found myself.  Not all of me, since each individual has myriad aspects  both biological and experiential in origin, but an understanding of some of  my persistent and inescapable (inexplicable) behaviors. Now, I appreciate  my sensitivity, realizing that I'm not paranoid because I put 2 + 2  together more quickly than anyone I know.  In fact, after Aron's book, I've  learned to use and trust this ability to my and others' advantage.  I  realize too that I need a peaceful, silent retreat from stimulus in order  to regain my balance -- realize it and understand it and permit it.<br />So  it was with anticipation that I got myself a copy of her new book, hoping  for many insights into achieving a harmonious and pleasurable love life.  The HSP in Love is not as well-written or as innovative or amazing as was  the original volume.  I found it difficult at times to focus on the point  the author was making during a discussion; however, certain points were  enlightening, especially when the author writes about current research into  relationships (which apply to everyone, not just HSPs).  From time to time  there are too many acronyms -- HSPs, non-HSPs, HSS, non-HSS, HSW, HSM, etc.  -- in one paragraph, so the writing style became choppy and difficult to  follow.  The book contains a summary of the theory which though a good  review takes up too much of the text, so there isn't enough about the  &quot;love&quot;: relationships, romance, sexuality, or platonic  relationships as well.  That was disappointing.  Also, at times I felt like  I was reading the first draft of the book, as if the author had no time to  produce the book she actually intended -- something tight and organized,  filled with revealing info about HSP relationships.<br />There was good  information in this book.  Don't get me wrong on that.  It was worth  reading, but I was left wanting more info rather than feeling like I had  learned a great deal. Based on the book, my relationships have not  improved, but I know a little more about loving relationships and I have  more compassion for myself and my behavior/needs within the relationships.  The book is worth reading for anyone identifying with being a HSP, but be  sure you read The Highly Sensitive Person first so you have an  understanding of the theory and get the most enlightenment about yourself  before delving into to this later book.od  review takes up too much of the text, so there isn't enough about the  &quot;love&quot;: relationships, romance, sexuality, or platonic  relationships as well.  That was disappointing.  Also, at times I felt like  I was reading the first draft of the book, as if the author had no time to  produce the book she actually intended -- something tight and organized,  filled with revealing info about HSP relationships.  <br />There was good  information in this book.  Don't get me wrong on that.  It was worth  reading, but I was left wanting more info rather than feeling like I had  learned a great deal. Based on the book, my relationships have not  improved, but I know a little more about loving relationships and I have  more compassion for myself and my behavior/needs within the relationships.   The book is worth reading for anyone identifying with being a HSP, but be  sure you read The Highly Sensitive Person first so you have an  understanding of the theory and get the most enlightenment about yourself  before delving into to this later book.	2000-04-19
US	50935356	R2CACCK0ZCEW4Q	0684831643	302682380	Unraveling the Mystery of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorder: A Mother's Story of Research and Recovery	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Fabulous,beautifully written story ALL parents should read	As a psychologist interested in learning disabilities and the brain; as a patient who was also treated for depression, panic attacks, chronic fatigue and intestinal illness through food allery diagnosis and treatment which  was incredibly successful; and as a woman with a close relative who is  autistic, I appreciated this well-written, beautifully presented story of a  boy and his parents who cared to take the time to research his disease, to  challenge the negligent and rigid traditional medical community, to find  and persist with a cure, and to sacrifice their time to spread the word to  the far too many families with children suffering from the epidemic of  autism or developmental problems/learning disablities.  We hear too often  of parents who simply accept a diagnosis and put their children on the  current drug (e.g., ritalin) without bothering to actually behave like  parents and use sound judgement and their parental instincts.  Karyn is a  hero in her son's life and in the growing effort to publicize the dangers  of the intense battery of vaccinations given to babies at far too early an  age.  Her book is not bitter, however, but inspiring.  You'll hear about  Miles' symptoms and behaviors, about Karyn's concerns and fears, of  pioneering psychologists and physicians who literally risk their careers on  finding the source and cure for autism.  Karyn details all her experiences  from discoveries that opiate byproducts are found in autistic children's  urine (e.g., some reaction is going on in their bodies that is like putting  them on hallucinogenic drugs), using the food elimination diet on Miles and  finding miraculous results, working with other mothers and their  &quot;autistic&quot; children, interacting with physicians who were finding  clues and treatments such as Secretin (including her husband, a research  scientist).  Karyn's life completely changed with the diagnosis of autism,  and always at the back of her mind is the suspicion concerning Miles'  vaccinations -- until this book even offers the experimental proof found  though denied and ignored by the medical community and the pharmaceutical  companies manufacturing the &quot;cash-cow&quot; vaccines.  Parents who  trust medical experts need to read this book to realize in just what poor,  ill-informed, close-minded, and unconcerned hands their children (and  themselves,too) can be. The author goes further and tells her own and her  husband's stories, and she even uses the food allergy principles to cure  her chronic fatigue.  This is a dramatic story, told humbly.  It is  fascinating reading simply as the biography of a disease.  I don't believe  I've ever encountered a book that I could recommend more than this one, for  any person who wants to lead a better quality life.  NOTE:  the diet Karyn  used for her son, including recipes, is included, as well as info on  websites and organizations.	2000-04-10
US	50935356	R3OYL9AJKV4Y7W	0375503897	109120611	A General Theory of Love	Books	3	33	46	N	Y	Good presentation of neuroscience but falters later on	The first third of this book is an accurate, well-planned presentation of results from neuroscience.  This section is very exciting and illuminating.  But in the second third, the authors attempt to explain the memory  mechanism and in doing so just don't maintain the standard of presentation  that they did in the first third.  The presentation gets bogged down in an  effort to simplify the information, using drawings that don't completely  convey the research data and that become confusing.  The presentation is  based more on a cognitive science viewpoint (e.g., computation) than on the  human/rational/emotive picture.  The last third of the book is taken up  with too much discussion of Freud, whose work is easily refuted by our  scientific findings (as he should have been just through common sense), and  a poetic fugue on psychotherapy that sounds more like a spiritual travel  essay than a presentation of methods (medical or psychological) and fails  to convince.  The best advice I received on mental health was from a  nutritional psychiatrist, who told me as he does his patients: if you get  the proper nutrition, your brain and body will function correctly, and you  will be able to handle the emotional stresses.  The authors don't present  this perspective, which is a growing view in our field, but do make claims  for pharmacological solutions that literature is now showing are not that  effective.  After reading a substantial portion of this book, I also became  annoyed with the author's fixation on the mother-child bond (very  Freudian).  Granted this is an important relationship, but they are  generally blaming mental problems on poor mothering, which is a big step  backwards.  There is no exploration of father-child relationships, sibling  or peer relationships, the effect of disease or environmental poisoning,  and the authors even admit they simplified by not looking at the formative  results from experience and trauma.  The book really presents only a  partial view of research and results, and though some of the conclusions  drawn by the authors are scientific, others are based on Freudian or  pharmacologic bias.  This is a small book, thus the whole picture is not  presented, and for that reason it is inadequate.  Some sections hold  sufficient information to bring personal illumination to the reader or the  benefit of some level of understanding of new research/implications, but it  isn't as helpful as reading the actual research.  I'd still recommend this  book as an interesting read.  It is well written and constructed,  especially in the first several chapters, and the authors have dared to be  politically incorrect, delivering tidbits of information that are often  suppressed by our current environment of social remodeling.  The book is a  beginning for in depth understanding of human beings, although I wonder if,  after all our effort and research, we end up agreeing with the pre-Socratic  philosophers.	2000-03-28
US	50935356	RZXCLHVGX185M	0452278821	259287422	Shiva Dancing	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Contrived, a story that could easily have been much better	To her credit,Kirchner is able to keep a comfortable level of suspense throughout the book, so that you do keep reading. She writes prose and dialog very well, but she constructs immaturely. She falls into the traps  that await first authors (and that her editor should have helped her  overcome): shallow and awkward characterizations,  too much time spent on  situations or conversations that do not advance the real story, way too  much detail (you know what everyone is wearing and what they are eating and  how the color yellow makes their eyes a deeper blue, and gobs of advice on  marathon running, etc., etc.) and telling us a fact/feeling rather than  showing us through plot or character.  <br />Shiva Dancing starts off  dramatically, with an intimate picture of the village Indian culture,  during which Meena is kidnapped from her wedding at seven years of age and  ends up with adoptive parents in San Francisco. Exciting, but downhill from  there.  Rather than beginning by returning Meena to India when she is an  adult, to search for her past and her future among her people, family, and  child-groom, Meena and the author do their best to avoid that storyline (it  would have been a good one) and get bogged down in unimportant details and  relationships in the US. Meena is a woman focused on her job, finding a  man, distance running, finding a man, patio gardening, and finding a man.  She has only a mild background interest in India, her past, and her  child-groom Vishnu. She is not a haunted, lonely, longing woman lost  between the two cultures that join within her spirit (which would have been  a good character).  The major portion of the book is filled with Meena's  friendships; her flirtation with Carlos, a charming, manipulative  commitment-phobe; and her love affair with Antoine, a less charming, more  manipulative commitment-phobe. Antoine is about to get engaged to his  long-time girlfriend but now he wants a fling with Meena to avoid the  commitment. Meena,who the author keeps reminding us is 35 and very  intelligent, should know better.  An opportunist is easy to spot.  But  Meena falls for it because Antoine has such sadness and suffering in his  eyes.  What's he got to suffer about?  Well, nothing.  He's wealthy,  famous, acutely handsome, engaged to be married and playing around with  Meena. No, there's no trauma or torment in his life -- just that he's a  louse. Meena falls for it, though she should be focused on her own pain,  confusion, and needs, but she is too shallow to let her own life truly  affect her.  The romance advances as, about halfway through the book,  Kirchner suddenly shifts into Antoine's head, showing him to be a tender,  teary-eyed, aging man who is soooo confused about his life. Oh, please.  <br />The plot is also bogged down by Meena's work place and career, which is  in peril. Here again the characters are shallow and awkward, drawn to suit  the situation rather than made real and driving the situation. However,  there are just too many characters and too many subplots throughout, so  when the real story gets going in India, finally, after nearly 300 pages,  it is told sketchily, with no real significance except that Meena flatly  states she finds she is American, not Indian. Meena's story is intercut  occasionally with Vishnu's, her long-lost child-groom.  He too is awkwardly  characterized, and his situation is supposed to lend mystery to the book.   It doesn't -- his passages are uninteresting and tell little about life in  India, so it becomes a pleasure to return to Meena's and Antoine's silly  romance.  <br />Shiva Dancing is not a bad book -- it was entertaining, though  overwritten with detail and more about San Francisco culture or computer  programming than Indian culture.  It is no follow- up to M.M. Kaye's The  Far Pavilions or Shadow of the Moon, which were so rich with Indian culture  that it was awesome, or Ruth Prawer Jhabvala's novels and short stories  (double-awesome!).I have hope for Kirchner.  Her writing style is good  and readable, but the substance needs a lot of revision.  Despite having  too many characters in Shiva Dancing, she is still in control of her story.   This shows real promise.  It is not easy to write a novel, a first novel  or a subsequent one, but Kirchner has the talent.  She is capable of  writing intelligent and memorable novels if she will make the effort and  discard this sort of silly, shallow fluff.	2000-03-14
US	50935356	R3531IGWMVCV3I	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Lacks charm of the original	The first novel, Bridget Jones' Diary, was interesting for being new -- a chatty, self-obsessed memoir that was a send-up of insecure women who are not in control of their lives, who are desperate for a man to give them the  value that they should recognize that they already have, and that are  suffering from co-dependence on their friends/family.  Bridget was mad for  dieting, mini-skirting, and getting herself into absurdly funny situations  that made the book blend into one huge laugh.  The Edge of Reason has lost  the charm of the first book, so that I found (you may not) the characters  annoying -- too much self-pity and dodging into alcohol-oblivions.  Bridget  hasn't grown as we like to see characters develop into more mature  perspectives.  She's devolved, getting silly rather than amusing.  Her  relationship with Mark Darcy is shallow.  There is no real intimacy beyond  the constant shagging (not that anyone would begrudge her that).  Mark and  Bridget don't share at any depth.  It's all surface, and Bridget is madly  insecure about her relationship (no wonder), given to whining and  fantasizing doom, when just sitting down and having an honest talk about  things would set the two up for an adult relationship.  I realize it is  meant to be funny, but it gets tedious awfully fast.  When Mark tells  Bridget that he loves her, I want to shout &quot;WHY? &quot;  There are  still some very funny scenes here, described with the original Bridget  style.  Bridget gets into a predicament on vacation that is well presented  but gets solved too easily.  Wellington, who wanders into her mother's  life, is terribly interesting and disappears far too soon.  Mark Darcy  comes off the hero, but he seems to be in all the scenes, with Bridget  co-dependent, desperate, and foolish.  I'm hoping the next sequel allows  Bridget to grow up, take charge of her life, get a better job (she deserves  it), and get some self-respect.	2000-03-10
US	50935356	R22QEQL1XXL1HJ	0262201259	821106250	A Natural History of Rape: Biological Bases of Sexual Coercion	Books	1	35	60	N	N	Actually, a zero for all too common sloppy science	There is a tendency in science for the researcher to interpret results or known facts in the light of their own prejudices.  It is plain by reading this book, right from the start, that the authors had an opinion and were  going to find data to reinforce that opinion.  Probably the fact that men  are writing about rape puts the authors in a bad situation anyhow, since  rape is rightly no longer about just the perpetrator (generally male) but  mainly about the victim.  Herein lies the major flaw that renders this  book, well, useless -- the authors do not explore rape from the victim's  point of view; nor do they go even a step further and study men who do not  rape, where they might get real answers (the answers would work against  their hypothesis).  Therefore, they fall into the feminist proposition  &quot;all men are rapists&quot; and rather force this onto the male  population, claiming that rape is a natural urge.  No, sex is a natural  urge.  Rape is sexual punishment and hatred, inflicted on a weaker,  sensitive and vulnerable individual as an act of releasing the rapist's  tension arising from hatred of the victim (not personally, rapists do not  get personal), hatred of self, or hatred of sexuality.  Rape is not  &quot;natural&quot; but is the result of biological urges being twisted in  a psychopathic mind and through the private or societal degradation of the  victim class.  I guess the authors miss this sort of information, since it  doesn't prove their point. Victims aren't raped because they are resisting  a normal sexual advance but because they fit the profile that the rapist  looks for -- an easy target.  Through the act of rape, the rapist is  satisfied by a release of emotional/mental tension, degradation of the  victim (proves the rapist's point that the victim is worthy of hatred and  violence), and a sense of triumph over the victim (power and control,  escape from the rapist's feelings of shame or sexual shame).  Add to that  the self-justifying mechanisms of the brain -- rapists who walk away from  the crime claiming that the victim forced them into the violent act, who  claim that it was okay to rape because they didn't actually hurt the victim  or the victim can't actually feel that much pain or that the victim isn't  really as &quot;human&quot;, thus as meaningful, as the rapist.  Rape is a  mental health issue just as it is a social/legal issue of protecting  potential victims.  Normal people do not commit acts of violence, even  though normal people do have moments of anger, rage, fear, prejudice, and  hatred.  The authors unfortunately have no insight into the violent or  psychotic mind, and so this book presents their deficiencies of knowledge  too well.  Evolutionary psychology is an inadequate field, actually not a  science since like Freudian psychology it relies on assumptions rather than  evidence, that permits ignorance to find a home base -- though we all can  admit that there are fundamentals in our genes/organs/behaviors, we are not  obsessed or controlled by these things, which evolutionary psychologists  fail to consider and would never accept.  An individual with a healthy mind  can understand, control and overcome negative thoughts or impulses.  If you  want real evidence, real science/medicine, look through Amazon for books on  the biology or neurobiology or neuroscience of violence.  There are many  text books with brain scans of violent persons, including the popular book  Adams' Change your Brain, Change your Life.  A good book to read if you  want to know more about hatred and violence, including sexual violence, is  Prisoners of Hate by Aaron Beck.  If the authors left you wondering more  about evolutionary psychology, a better presentation (though I don't agree  with it and you might not either) than the authors' book can be found in  The Evolution of Sex, which proposes the same idea of men who are  intellectually and emotionally unable to control their sexual impulses and  of men and women who are solely motivated by reproductive drives. If you  are considering reading this book, why bother?  It is a typical, biased  presentation from typical, arrogant, ignorant, closed minds.	2000-02-24
US	50935356	R1MHRVY1GIMN4B	096463919X	20915707	Sculptured Knits: 48 Timely Designs Inspired by the Decorative Arts of the 20th Century	Books	5	40	41	N	N	More than 5 stars, it's fantastic	This is an absolutely beautiful book, with sweater designs for everyone.  Out of 40 total designs, Moss has created a handful for the home (lovely afghans and pillows), numerous attractive sweaters for women, a bunch of  charming sweaters for kids, and even a few sweaters for men.  Mainly Rowan  or Classic Elite are used -- cottons, silks, blends, and wools, with  Colinette yarns being used as well.  The designs for the sweaters --  inspired by art, film and architecture of the past decades -- are just  phenomenal.  They are the most creative I've seen this year, and I'm just  amazed at how many tastes/moods Moss manages to cover.  There is something  for everyone here, from conservative and stylish looks for the office to  innovative sweaters for the young or young-at-heart, to fashionable evening  or weekend wear.  The men's sweaters are stylish and masculine and include  a fisherman sweater that looks like a combination of gansey and aran styles  -- it's so nice I'm going to knit it for myself! Beautifully photographed.   Some new techniques as well, and Moss provides drawings to illustrate how  to perform the new stitches or new construction.  There is a reversible  sweater (yeah!  I've been wanting to learn this technique) and a sweater  jacket with pleated vents in the back, like a very traditional English  walking jacket, made in a gorgeous Jean Moss tweed yarn.   The instructions  for knitting are thorough, with diagrams that include measurements (in  inches, not centimeters, for the US audience) so you can easily follow  along while knitting and blocking.  This is the best knitting book  published in this year, topping the very nice A Close-Knit Family.  If  you've seen previews of the book (the Fitzgerald sweater is in Fall 1999  Knitter's magazine and someone sent me a brochure on the book), you'll be  glad to know that the book far outclasses the previews.  Do not miss adding  this book to your knitting library!	1999-12-13
US	50935356	R10YJBKUFMLP4P	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Fantastic book of fantasy SF	If you like SF, if you like fantasy, if you just like fine, exciting, brilliantly executed and 'lots of fun to read' fiction, you will not regret purchasing this collection of Zelazny's epics.  Too long out of print, the  first Amber quintet is amazing, the sort of books that you can describe as  unputdownable (and how often do you find this sort of writing these days?).   They are intelligent, witty, with a dry humor and a totally appealing but  also completely human (well, sort of) hero, Corwin of Amber.  Corwin has a  host of siblings, some nice, some so-so, and some downright bad, or at  least they are from Corwin's point of view.  Being siblings, it is  competition aplenty as they seek to become, or ally themselves with the one  who becomes, the new ruler of Amber after their promiscuous father's death.   Here be family mechanics, plot twists, numerous surprises, and a final  competition with the forces of evil (Chaos).  The adventures here are  phenomenal, and Zelazny's writing is at its peak.  He pulls together his  version of mythologies from different earth cultures, expounds on  spiritualities, gets the tragedy/regret/pleasure of human relationships  down cold, and just delivers rousing good adventures.  The second series,  following Corwin's son as he searches for his missing father, lacks the  energy of the first five books, but all the same it is Zelazny completing  his epic, and the book(s) is well-worth having.  Hoping that all Zelazny's  out of print books will appear as well, like Dreammaster, Lord of Light,  the short story collections, and the prophetic Today We Choose Faces.	1999-12-08
US	50935356	R3FJOK9YJP3VPH	0771055285	375782184	An Innocent in Scotland: More Curious Rambles and Singular Encounters	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Lively, entertaining, and revealing	McFadden writes with wit and charm about the witty, charming, and amusing conversations he had along the way while touring Scotland.  His purpose is to follow an old guidebook from 1929, as he did in his previous book about  Ireland, but somehow he is touring the lives of the people he encounters  more than the country itself, although there is a lot about the sites he  visits along the way.  The author does not limit himself -- you hear about  the foods, the politics, the English/Scottish rivalries, history, and the  quaint day-to-day lives of individuals who often seem to just walk up to  McFadden and start talking.  This is a funny book, more fun than most books  labeled as comedic, and following McFadden around on his journey (map  included) is entertaining.  This is a great book for becoming familiar with  the culture in Scotland or getting an idea on how a nation with a wealth of  tragic history is approaching its steps towards independence from England.   It reads nearly like a novel, the narrative being so lively, and McFadden  is the main character, interjecting wise or fun-loving comments.  Well done  and a very good read.	1999-12-07
US	50935356	R1FOHPFVTVII9C	157389009X	969560605	Vogue Knitting: Designer Knits	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Good collection from past Vogue issues	Some sporty styles, some classics -- all at varying skill levels, so anyone can find something in this book to knit.  Most of the sweaters are from more recent (last 10 years) magazine issues, so you may have at least  a few of these already.  Others I haven't seen before, even though they  look fairly current.  If a yarn is no longer available, the author offers a  substitute.  As usual, the knitting instructions are clearly laid out, so  knitting these sweaters should not be troublesome.  For simpler designs,  Malcolm has published a very easy, very vogue edition which also has a nice  variety, mainly for a beginning or early intermediate knitter.  But again,  beginners or intermediates can find a lot for them in this volume as well.	1999-11-30
US	50935356	R2HYKRG5P1A3OO	1561582654	980824143	Designing Knitwear	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	Instructive and inspiring	Rarely is a book published on designing your own knitted sweaters (the last I can recall is Michelson's Guide to Knitted Sweater Design, sadly long out of print but an excellent reference).  Newton goes in depth into  sweater design, teaching as well as inspiring, with how-tos and  calculations as well as sketches that one can adapt for one's own ideas.   Many details on handling all sorts of details such as different cast ons  and bind offs, pleating, etc.  A wonderful book to browse as well as use to  create your own designs.	1999-11-30
US	50935356	R12RLMP4CD93BI	157389012X	623211643	Vogue Knitting Very Easy Knits: The Best Of Very Easy Very Vogue	Books	5	81	82	N	N	Easy styles for all seasons	There are a good number of sweaters in this volume, many of which I had not seen in my collection of back issues of Vogue knitting magazine. They are all as advertised, fairly simple to make.  Yarns like cotton, mohair,  and traditional wools are represented.  Just like the first volume on  Designer Knits, this book is laid out nicely with full page photographs and  clear instructions.  A good addition to everyone's library.	1999-11-30
US	50935356	R1MAREHKQH1DUV	0806962038	592097002	Big Book of Knitting	Books	5	66	71	N	N	It is a big book on knitting	This book is in full color, with extensive illustrations (all photos) of techniques, so anyone can follow along when trying something new. The author adds a section of pattern stitches, some of which I have not seen in  other knitting books, and a section at the back of the book with patterns  for the models shown in the book (except for the sweater I liked, which was  missing). Demonstrations include short-rows and working with color.  The  photos have been very helpful in explaining techniques that I am attempting  as I design my own sweaters, so someone who is a designer might benefit by  having this book as well as any beginner or intermediate knitter.	1999-11-30
US	50935356	R3RNK0G2L5DEAI	1564772624	141446797	Two Sticks and a String: Knitting Designs Inspired by Nature	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Some unusual designs, nicely presented	This is a fairly nice book.  My reservation is only that I didn't find anything I wanted to knit, although someone with a different taste in sweaters, particularly if you like innovative, modern styles or exotic  fibers, would like a number of the designs.  Photos of the sweaters are  nice, laid out flat rather than posed on models, which for me makes it much  easier to see the entire sweater, which is helpful during the knitting  process as well as when choosing colors for yarn.  Knitting instructions  are clear and easy to follow.	1999-11-29
US	50935356	R3E7F46JLARIUW	0385314027	299319226	The Plutonium Files: America's Secret Medical Experiments in the Cold War	Books	5	56	59	N	N	Important contribution to exposes of nuclear abuses	As a physicist, I learned early on in my education about the dangers of radioactive materials -- sadly, at the time I did not know that the information we had was gained through these heinous human experiments.   This book, meticulously researched and believably written, is a convincing  expose of the US Army's and the Federal Government's callous attitudes  towards the people these two serve and are financially supported by -- the  citizens of the US.  It is also a history of atomic development.  The  author delves into the Manhattan Project and into the founding of Los  Alamos.  The entire book is written in an easy to understand style, with  excellent explanations where explanations are needed, so that anyone could  read this comfortably.  The discomfort is in what was done to the victims,  and the continuing publicity and attitude that the American government is  the only MORAL government on earth.  It is a very sad thing when the  Federal Government shows itself to be dangerous to its citizens, but these  experiments add to a growing mound of evidence.  The author has done a  thorough, dedicated, and compassionate job of investigating and  documenting.  We should be stirred into anger and action by the book, but  it is a sad thing too that the American people can't be roused -- it is as  if we are more interested in the fictional lives we see on our favorite TV  shows than in our own, and our children's, lives.  In a way, too, anyone  downwind of the above ground nuclear tests (just about all of us, even the  unborn and the unconceived) were guinea pigs of airborne radiation, and we  are to this day from fallout.   This book is about specific people who were  directly injected or who ingested radioactive materials, but it is actually  about all of us.  Chilling things -- the horrible deterioration of the  women who used liquid radium to paint the dials on watches and who licked  the brushes, the fate of those who died during experimentation, and the  coldness of the scientists and physicians (those meant to heal, not kill).   This is the history of a horrible, unethical time in our country, and one  cannot help wonder what other similar experiments are going on today, under  the aegis of the military or of industry, all with the blessing of the  government.  One cannot help wondering, too, about the scientific community  and its blind ambition for knowledge or its competition for the Nobel Prize  at all costs.  Anyone with any moral conscience should be shocked and wary  after reading this book -- but please do read it.   If the subject  interests you, also check into The River, about the HIV epidemic and the  scientists developing the polio vaccine for sub-Saharan Africa, which is  another well-researched book exposing the threats posed by the scientific  community.	1999-11-29
US	50935356	R3GL8D13KOR60Y	1564772551	329458464	Simply Beautiful Sweaters: Tricoter	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Colorful sweaters, simple designs	This book is perhaps a lesson in color theory for sweaters.  The sweater patterns are simple, as the title states, and classic.  The interesting thing in the designs, however, is the use of color -- and not in ways that  are so complex that they can be either intimidating or time-consuming.  The  photos of each sweater are marvelous -- the colors rich and vibrant.   Everything is attractive.  The book itself is of extremely high quality --  durable and glossy papers, although I think that being a paperback it is a  tad overpriced.  Some of the designs have a list of yarns used, and others  do not, only suggesting the weight of yarn required, which can be  frustrating if you, like me, tend to want to knit exactly what you see in a  photo.  I liked the write up on the shop owned by the authors and the  colorful photos -- somehow it made the book more appealing, as if you knew  the authors.  The patterns are clearly laid out, and the instructions are  meticulous.  Also, the printface was large enough that it was comfortable  to read (unlike some patterns that are squeezed onto a page so you  sometimes lose your place while knitting/reading).  This is really a fine  book, and though at the moment I don't want to knit any of the sweaters  (that may change as I browse through again and again), the book itself is  an excellent lesson in the color possibilities for sweaters, which should  make many of us more creative in our color choices.  This is a very nice  book and regardless of whether you like intricate or simple patterns for  sweaters, an excellent addition to a knitter's library.	1999-11-29
US	50935356	R1JNVIC0XB6I64	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Revealing look at Hillary's &quot;depth&quot;	....This book is a very revealing bio, a  truly great bio in its research and its presentation, of a woman who  doesn't seem all that complex -- just driven beyond the norm to prove  herself to be better...Read it to find  out how a woman (or any potential politician) uses people, concepts,  soundbites and buzzwords with media exposure to create an albeit shallow  public identity.  And read it as well, as I did, for keen insights into  modern Presidential politics.  The book is all around informative, well  written and researched, and just brilliant.	1999-11-24
US	50935356	R2C23585BNIMAO	0297822047	418153630	Lakeland Landscapes (Country)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Splendid, stunning landscapes, beautiful photography	The authors have visited one of the loveliest areas of England, the Lakelands, which I understand were popularized by Wordsworth in his poetry.  Having been to England but always having missed this area, I am so pleased  to have this book.  The scenes are gorgeous.  The photography is true art,  just beautiful.	1999-11-23
US	50935356	R17ZT8IEMPM5WD	1561582514	592048768	A Close-Knit Family: Sweaters for Everyone You Love	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Surprised by how much I liked it	Often a knitting book tries to have something for everybody, but it can be disappointing when you spend $20 to $30 on a book and there might be one thing that you like enough to make.  I expected that from this book,  perhaps because the last few books of this kind that I purchased weren't as  satisfying as expected, and so I was happily surprised.  I don't have a  family, so the aspects of knitting sweaters for children are lost on me,  but it is actually a great idea to have coordinating sweaters that are not  identical.  This prevents the &quot;clone&quot; look to family dressing.  The women's and men's sweaters are varied (some vests, some cardigans or  pullovers) and most are very nice and creative.  None are too difficult to  make.  Different types of fibers are represented.  The photography is  attractive and the instructions laid out clearly.  The yarns used are also  easy to locate for purchase.  A very nice book.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	R265SVFWX7MA24	0151003696	257848019	The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness	Books	2	60	71	N	N	Philosophical, not a clinical study, nothing new	Somewhat overwritten, the author seems to be uncertain of the audience he is trying to reach -- he varies from addressing the layperson to quickly tossing in concepts without leading explanations, as one would with an  expert.  The narrative had a knack of not holding my attention, so I  generally felt that I was missing key ideas, yet when I reread paragraphs  or pages, I found that I hadn't missed all that much.  Somehow what the  author wanted to say doesn't appear to come across, at least for me.   Instead, this is more of a fugue on Philosophy of Mind, and as anyone who  reads philosophy may have noticed, it is a field more devoted to  imagination and speculation than to practicality, rationality, or  applicability.  Granted when we think about consciousness, it is one of  those topics that we seem to know a lot about but we cannot exactly  describe what we know.  Consciousness, I suppose, is just something we  assume exists since most of us are conscious. Damasio tries to define  consciousness by using current terms or relabeling existing terms found in  Philosophy of Mind. He wants to give more substance, therefore more  credence, to Philosophy of Mind -- to add some sound logic to the analysis.   He succeeds.  But this is not a clinical book nor self-help.  There are  surprisingly few clinical examples, and also no substantive answers to be  found to questions about clinical/neurological manifestations of  consciousness or the lack of it.  Damasio does introduce absence seizures  and coma/lock-in states, but there is not enough discussion on either of  these to prove his point.  Basically, the first several pages of the  chapter on Neurobiology of Consciousness sum up his theory that the  reticular formation in the brain stem, when functioning properly, gives  rise to consciousness.  This is not a new idea either, since the brain stem  is amply studied elsewhere in textbooks and in popular nonfiction for a  variety of involuntary/autonomic processes. In theend, despite formulating  a hierarchy of terms and concepts on consciousness -- based on and  utilizing other philosopher's terms or concepts, Damasio still only  describes consciousness but does not tell us what consciousness is.  His  best discussions are on emotions and &quot;feeling&quot; emotions or being  aware of them, but this has been done better elsewhere (Richard Lazarus'  numerous publications or Candace Pert's Molecules of Emotion).  If you are  looking for philosophical discussions on consciousnesss, Daniel Dennett may  be the place to start or Paul Churchland, Colin McGinn, and so on.  Damasio's book is best viewed as a good but spare summary of previously  published ideas or known results.  If you are looking for clinical studies  on the brain, presented in a completely understandable way, Adams' Change  Your Brain/Change Your Life is an excellent presentation of brain studies  and behavior.  For more details on neuroscience (many more than Damasio  provides), Rita Carter's Mapping the Mind is one of the better  presentations and also understandable for any level reader.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	R3M76OJ2IY90VE	0943955882	214732945	Classic Knits for Kids: Thirty Traditional Aran and Guernsey Designs for 0-6 Years	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful collection of kids sweaters	Bliss designed a great variety of styles, all attractive and all, sadly, only in children's sizing (many would make truly lovely adult sweaters).  Difficulty level is not high -- some are fairly simple to make and the  others are well worth the effort. Some are rugged sweaters, others  decorative.  Sweaters for boys and girls, too. The photography is nice and  instructions are clear.   Really a fabulous book.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	RCX54MTUETKNU	157076123X	829001537	Family Knits: Over 25 Knitwear Designs for Babies, Children and Adults	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Nice collection, well photographed	Debbie Bliss has produced a very nice book on knitting for the entire family.  Her designs for children are still more stunning than those for adults, but there are several nice men's and women's sweaters here.   Instructions are simple.  Worth owning.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	R39G8K555Q1IDY	0688119077	488654284	Is This Your Child?	Books	5	86	87	N	N	Incredible book, but not just for children	This book was recommended to me when my physician suspected that food allergies were causing my depression and stomach problems.  I read the book and was astounded at the evidence here and how well it is presented.  The  title of the book implies that it is just for diagnosing children, but  every person can benefit by it.  Just think of all the adult behaviors that  might be caused by food allergies -- violence, depression, isolation,  anxiety, giddiness, exhaustion, and so on.  It is a sad commentary that the  medical community doesn't give much credence to food allergies, as I have  found in wandering from specialist to specialist.  When my allergies were  discovered and I avoided the food, my depression cleared in six months.   What a fantastic cure, and so simple and inexpensive -- just the cost of  this book and the IGG blood test.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	R1EAFJXGJJDFM	0865475423	985267417	Where the Roots Reach for Water : A Personal & Natural History of Melancholia	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	Adds to a growing list of compassionate books on depression	The author, thankfully, recognizes that clinical depression, having a low-key or melancholic personality, or having a reason to be down in spirits, are different.  As a cognitive psycholgist, I interact with people in their day-to-day work environment, and I find that lately we too freely  call persons depressed when they may only be sad/angry because of something  haunting them in the past or concerning them about the future (they need to  talk about it), or when it is just their nature to look on the grim side of  things (they need to have their outlook accepted and appreciated), or when  they have learned that being sad is a protective mechanism against  disappointment or cruelty (they need to be comforted).  These are natural  manifestations of natural human emotions, and they should never be  medicated out of existence or forced out of existence by our modern,  ebullient, and shallow society.  Nor should natural personality traits be  labeled as mental illness either.  <br />However, clinical depression needs to  be addressed as well.  From my experiences, some of those who are mildly  clinically depressed may heal naturally given time, rest, emotional  support, good nutrition, regular exercise, and fresh air, as well as  something to be hopeful or happy about, which is a motivator toward  wellness.  The worst thing about being clinically depressed is the sense  that you are all alone, and so depressed persons need compassionate (not  forced) inclusion in caring society, as this author supports. <br />I haven't  finished the book yet prior to writing this review, so I don't know if the  author has a chance to talk about some irritants that can cause seemingly  untreatable depression -- not just medical conditions like  glucose-intolerance, anemia, or thyroid activity, but we have published  findings on chemical fumes in poorly ventilated industrial environments or  at home from man-made materials (plastic items, rugs), questions about  chemical leeching from plastic containers like soda bottles, or concerns  about our air quality and nutritional content of foods. Food allergies,  which many medical professionals refuse to accept, can also be culprits (an  astoundingly fabulous book about this, available through amazon, is IS THIS  YOUR CHILD? by Rapp).<br />There is a reason why we get depressed, and if it  is a biological discrepancy (profound sadness or lack of motivation which  lasts too long, or sadness with no basis), we need to find what it is  rather than try to erase it with a pill (medication doesn't always work in  the long run).  However, if we are sad by nature or cirumstance, I agree  with the author that that is no reason to classify us and medicate us.  In  the book, the author is a pioneer in supporting a traditional attitude that  has fallen out of favor -- being kind enough to accept yourself as you are,  to accept that what you feel may be natural and right.  What a wonderful  idea, in our technological society, to say that emotions are okay to feel.	1999-11-22
US	50935356	R3FXL5NWIP4D2K	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	201	207	N	N	Superbly written, well-plotted, realistic, haunting	The story of a woman lost between two men, a husband and a lover, told from the lover's point of view.  The plot is dramatic, the characters unwittingly and wittingly involved in one of the most common human stories.   Greene's writing style is perfect.  There is not a word or an activity  wasted, and at the same time the tale is beautifully and compellingly told.   This book is an amazing example of the finest literary composition, but it  is also fascinating in the acute and at times understated manner in which  these three character's psychologies play together to enmesh the hearts of  two men and the life of the woman.  This is also a spiritual novel, asking  questions while at the same time attempting answers.  And throughout, there  is a strong sense of honesty that one doesn't find in most romantic novels.   The characters seem to be real persons, whose lives are not dramatic or  dramatized, but related in all their smallness, their dissatisfaction,  their quest for understanding, and that inexplicable desire for something  more. I was surprised to find that this small book was such a satisfying as  well as haunting read.  Anyone planning to write fiction, particularly  romance (not that silly fluff romance, but something meaningful), should  become acquainted with this novel.  It tells so much so very well.	1999-11-09
US	50935356	RZLX5NO2XIEB2	1883010578	238137967	The Best Of Rowan: Fifty Designer Patterns	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Just beginning to appreciate it	I set this book aside for several months, since at first I was disappointed.  A number of the sweaters showcased are from very recent Rowan magazines, and I was hoping for sweaters from the older,out of print,  magazines.  Also many of them weren't appealing to me at all.  But I picked  up the book again and found a few that I now want to make.  The book  contains a good variety for a knitter who does not already own Rowan  magazine issues, and as is typical with Rowan, the sweaters are not simple  to create.  Rowan yarns are not a must to knit these either -- I am using a  Cascade 220 for the first design in the book, a cabled pullover sweater,  and I am altering the design to make it more &quot;American&quot;.  The  photographs are nice, although again they are repeats from the Rowan  Magazines.  I have looked at out of print issues of Rowan magazines,  however, and there were other sweaters that I would have considered  &quot;best of&quot; and am sorry not to see included here.  At least half  of the sweaters in this book I would never consider making, but I believe  the book is worth owning for those few that are really beautiful and that I  don't already own.  The best thing Rowan can do for knitters, though, is to  bring back into print all the vintage Rowan magazines so those of us who  just discovered Rowan in the last few years can now have all those  wonderful older designs without paying phenomenal prices for used issues of  the out-of-print magazines (some sell for $700!).	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R1M372TNKSN8KO	1567992153	336288899	Jill Gordon's Needlepoint: Creative Tapestry Designs	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Gordon's style is peculiar, but some very nice tapestries	After owning this and Gordon's Tapestry Collection, also available at Amazon, for about a year, I still find her style odd, although her designs have grown on me.  The cover design is lovely both in photograph and in  person.  In this book, there is a nice, though too brightly colored for my  taste, hollyhocks 3 panel screen, some landscapes, some fishscapes.  It's a  good introduction to her style.  If you like this book, find the Tapestry  Collection too -- the designs are much nicer, more distinct and more  artistically mature.  And the Tapestry Collection has most of the designs  charted, including one panel of a three panel phenomenal wild poppies  landscape. Glorious Needlepoint (not to be confused with Fassett's own  Glorious Needlepoint, which has been out of print in this country for years  although last time I checked it was available at Amazon UK), has many  photos of tapestries, but not all are charted, which was annoying.  Some of  these are available as kits as noted in the book, although the kits are  done on interlock canvas, which in my view is rather cheap (the kits  themselves, however, since they are imports, are expensive).  This book is  worth having in your needlepoint library, as is her Tapestry Collection  (highly recommended). Caution: if you buy the Tapestry Collection, Amazon  also lists Gordon's Tapestry Book.  This is the UK edition of the Tapestry  Collection -- they are identical.  Don't make the mistake of buying both as  I did!	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R3BNIHL7MQS4J9	0316275069	559802797	Glorious Interiors: Needlepoint, Knitting and Decorative Design Projects for Your Home	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Five stars plus!	This is one of Kaffe's best books, if not the best.  The photos are beautiful, and the displays of his needlepoint tapestries or vests among the collections of furnishings, etc., in his home are truly beautiful.   Stunning needlepoint rugs, both of which are available as kits as noted in  the book, although the kits are simplified versions of the rugs.  Some rag  rugs with patterns to make them.  Lovely paintings too, if you like Kaffe's  style or at least find it appealing.  Some needlepoint charts, although I  wish there were many more charted items, although some are photographed  sufficiently that they can be copied yourself.  Just a beautiful book on  home decorating, on needlepoint, and on lovely ideas for tapestries.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R157WUYCJCGC96	1561583731	16925434	Mosaics: Inspiration And Original Projects For Interiors And Exteriors	Books	4	35	58	N	N	Inventive, nicely photographed	If you are interested in mosaics as a craft, this book is worthwhile.  It presents some very creative methods for using mosaics inside and outside of the home. It is also a quality book, like Kaffe's and Candace's others,  with nice photography and fine, glossy paper.  I haven't read the text,  since I never do -- does anyone or do we all just look at the photos and  make the featured designs?  There is an armchair done in mosaics -- looking  uncomfortable to sit upon but very striking for the household.  A few of  the murals were nice.  Since I haven't gotten involved in mosaics, I don't  know if these designs/techniques are unique or commonplace.  Some of the  photos were a bit cluttered, so it was difficult to zero-in on items of  interest.  Personally, I'm not into mosaics, but I found the book  entertaining to look at and as an artist I believe it will be inspiring to  those interested in mosaics or interested in modern design -- Kaffe and his  protege's (or is it the protege's influencing Kaffe?) do have a way of  blending modern graphics techniques with needle- and now mosaic-craft.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R224W4RNXINGT9	1883010322	788194424	Slip-Stitch Knitting	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Disappointing	Slip stitch knitting can be very inventive and simple, and though this book does present the technique very well, I found the sweater patterns presented were unappealing.  The book itself is way overpriced.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R3AV08BFDY3HL7	1883010586	955565867	Meg Swansen's Knitting	Books	2	13	51	N	N	Dull sweaters that look very awkward on the models	I don't like to pan anyone's efforts, but before you purchase this book, look at it in the store.  The sweaters hang awkwardly on the models, making me wonder how they were constructed.  If models can't wear them well, can  any of us real people?  The designs are not striking, and as both an avid  collector of knitting books/pattern books (I suppose all knitters are?) as  well as a designer, I found that what Swanson presents was done much better  in other designers' collections.  I even think these designs did not take  much artistic effort.  Some even looked fairly outdated.  Save your money,  or better yet try some of the higher quality designers out there, like Jo  Sharp (Knitting Bazaar, her newest, is very nice) or Sally Melville.  Jo  Sharp does some monotone and two color sweaters that greatly outclass  Swanson's.  And there's always Alice Starmore if you want truly glorious  fair isle or Aran/Aran-type sweaters.  All these other books are available  here at Amazon, too.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	RV8I0IPK7MEC	1561581895	998565568	Knitted Sweater Style: Inspirations in Color	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Jo Sharp has real talent	Jo Sharp appeared on the American scene with her incredible collections of new, inventive, beautiful designs and a wonderful line of knitting yarns.  In this book, she can take a conservative style and through stitch-work  make it quite lively and appealing, as well as an adventure to make.  Other  sweaters are bold intarsia, quite striking and unusual. Nothing is too  difficult, and her wool is perfect for her designs -- a luxurious and  durable wool in an ever growing number of colors.  Knitted Sweater Style is  her first hardbound book, combining many of her sweaters previously  available as leaflets.  Her newest book, Knitting Bazaar, is even more  stunning -- her style, already creative, blossoms in the new book.  Both  would be an excellent addition to any knitter's library.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R3MA3GWXI3XY9A	1564772780	151370182	Welcome Home: Kaffe Fassett	Books	3	153	162	N	Y	Not up to Kaffe's usual standards	For the price, this isn't a quality book.  The paper is not up to the standards in other books by Kaffe, although Welcome Home lists at the same or a similar price.  There are some nice photos of the Minneapolis  exhibition, some photos of Kaffe's house and working area, comparable to  what we've seen in Glorious Interiors but again not up to the quality of  that book, which was much more artfully and professionally photographed.  As a knitter and a needleworker, I was disappointed to find no patterns in  this book for either -- the patterns are for rag rugs or quilts.  Part of  the intent of the book is to showcase Fassett's new home fabrics, which  aren't showcased as well as they can be if this were a catalog.  There are  a few finished needlepoint pieces -- three peculiar chairs with interesting  tapestry inserts.  A nice photo of a needlepoint roses vest -- without the  charts, so you'd have to chart it yourself.  I was looking forward to this  book but was disappointed both in the quality of the book itself and in the  lack of the traditional Fassett crafts -- the knitting and the tapestries.  For those who like quilts, I'd recommend you get Glorious Patchwork rather  than this book.  It has many more quilts and a much better presentation.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	R1H20RGF6KCSB0	0964639149	703718549	Sally Melville's Styles: A Unique and Elegant Approach for Your Yarn Collection	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Highly inventive, beautiful designs for the whole family	Melville has found a brand new technique, which is unusual in itself, since so much in knitting is just one designer copying (&quot;adapting&quot;) another.  I was glad to see someone daring to be  unique.  At first glance and at many glances later on, I have to say that  her styles in this book are really beautiful -- and she incorporates many  different techniques, many different designs, so there is bound to be  something for everybody.  She's also attentive to color by presenting  sweater models in a variety of schemes, so those who like bright colors, or  heathery colors, or earth tones will find something they like.  The  sweaters look fairly simple to knit, also, and if you are using color in  the knitting, it is in a way that is not intricate.  I have yet to try one  of the woven looks, but it must be faster and simpler than intarsia or  color stranding.  The only disappointment is that these designs are not  readily available as kits -- I'd like to make some of them identical to  those in the book.  The Mannings in Pennsylvania has a few of the designs  kitted, but not the ones that I want.  Melville presents a really nice  collection of sweaters.  This is one of the best knitting books on the  market, comparable with Jo Sharp's new Knitting Bazaar as two of the most  inspiring books I've ever owned.  Hope to see much more from this author in  the future.	1999-11-05
US	50935356	RD4JBJWYIOBQS	1887603034	408248804	I Love Me: Avoiding & Overcoming Depression	Books	1	20	21	N	N	Brain-washing for some, inadequate for true medical needs	It is unfortunate that in a discipline as serious as psychology/mental health, one often finds that a spiritual book innocuously intrudes to introduce the cruel and ungodly lie -- that all your problems are caused by  a lack of faith in God.  Improve your faith and improve your life?  This  may work in some cases, temporarily, even if we are dealing with ordinary  sadness.  But the cycle of anxiety/depression is a medical condition,  resulting from a chemical imbalance/metabolic deficiency produced by such  things as vitamin deficiencies, food allergies, environmental pollutants or  chemical fumes (like formaldehyde from industrial, home and auto rugs),  infectious or hereditary diseases.  One may be able to pull oneself out of  it the first time, but when you have to pull yourself out of sadness every  day, or when happiness is more and more elusive, you have a real problem.   It is an awfully unethical claim, that one's physical problems are one's  own fault, as this book implies. Reviews below say that this book worked  for them, but the temporary high that individuals get when they believe  they have found the solution (usually they just want to hear what the  author is saying because it's easier to take than the truth) is only a  momentary surge out of depression, if that.  Just as bad is the idea that  God is a being who will handle and solve all of your problems.  God gave  you a brain so you can manage your own life.  Hmmm.  This is also an  insulting book to women's roles, and thus to men, since it seems to tell  women that our happiness is in subordinating ourselves to a man, then  letting the man handle all the problems. What do you get but an anxious,  overtaxed, even depressed male and a co-dependent,childish female who makes  everyone else anxious and depressed? Some of the solutions to our sadnesses  given in this book are already proven by behavioral modification to help,  such as taking care with one's appearance.  They just help so much and so  far.  It is also found through scientific research that smiling can  alleviate feelings of depression, for a while.  People need the proper  medical advice (conceding that it is hard to find, since most physicians  seem to me to be a collection of the most ignorant individuals on this  earth), and I would recommend one find a decent doctor to help with  depression -- one who explores causes and doesn't just hand out the generic  pill -- and a caring therapist to help deal with the ramifications rather  than turn to this book, which too clearly dismisses the human reality of  depression by &quot;leaving it all up to God.&quot;  This was unethical  writing and unethical publishing.	1999-11-03
US	50935356	R1PJPWZZBSOHPQ	1561581984	755016798	The Jean Moss Book of World Knits (Threads)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	pretty nice attempt at unusual designs	Moss has some nice sweaters here, although I can't help thinking that the inspiration for the designs should have produced more thought over the designs themselves.  Something about them shouted that they could have been  improved.  They don't look like &quot;world&quot; knits either but only a  select portion of the world.  The colors are often too bright for my taste,  although two of the sweaters are fairly nice.  Somehow it all seems  awkward, but it is a nice attempt at doing something different.  However,  none of the sweaters is so appealing that I'm willing to put in the time to  handle their intricacies.  I'm looking forward to her new book, Sculptured  Knits, which I've seen previewed -- and  one of the sweaters in the  collection can be found in the Fall 1999 Knitter's.	1999-11-03
US	50935356	R3VHVKE3EACB6X	0517708531	265860746	Glorious Patchwork:  More Than 25 Glorious Quilt Designs	Books	3	12	25	N	N	Nice as an artbook to browse, but nothing new	I was surprised when I heard Kaffe Fassett was getting involved in patchwork quilting at this late date -- what could he contribute?  Nothing,  really.  The designs for quilts in the book are not just unoriginal, they  are the most common.  Things we've all already done.  He does show a  dramatic use of color, which is not necessarily everyone's taste.  I bought  the book just out of curiosity and to see the needlepoint and paintings  displayed in some of the photos.  It's a nice book just for browsing, and  it is a good companion to Glorious Interiors, which is a great book, and  Glorious Needlepoint (even better!).  Fassett has a new book out, Welcome  Home, which Amazon just shipped to me.  I was hoping for some needlepoint  in Welcome Home, but it has only rag rugs and several quilting designs --  again unoriginal.  It seems like Fassett has gone into quilting, sadly  neglecting the areas where he was inventive and popular (knitting and  needlepoint).  Welcome Home also has photos of his recent Minneapolis  exhibition.  And it profiles Fassett's line of home fabrics.  Those who did  like his Patchwork Quilts book would like Welcome Home, but it is not up to  the standards of his previous books.	1999-10-29
US	50935356	R2M5S5G294T97B	1561583642	509716038	Knitting Bazaar	Books	5	103	105	N	Y	Best of Jo Sharp's collections	Some of Jo Sharp's sweater designs are a bit outlandish for me, since I'm more conservative in dress, although I expect a good number of them, since  they are colorful, unusual and eye-catching, can be quite popular.  I was  happy, though, to find this collection, which has something for everybody  and certainly lots for me.  Jo Sharp yarn is extraordinary -- quite unusual  for our market, these are strong, substantial yarns that knit into  luxurious garments on anywhere from the recommended size 6 needle to a size  8 or 9. They are expensive, comparatively, at $6.50 for a ball of 107  yards, but you get great coverage, and the end result is a sweater that is  both durable, comfortable, easy to maintain, and versatile, not to mention  warm.  A whole sweater can cost about $100, which is not bad for the  quality that you get.  Knitting Bazaar has great designs for single colored  sweaters, two colors, or the more complex trademark styles of multi-hued  intarsias.  Very inventive designs for the new colors added to her palette,  and some wonderfully conservative styles that I can wear to work.  The best  of the collection, though, is Precious Jewel -- a brightly colored intarsia  of op-art flowers and scrollwork.  The cover style, Boheme, is also very  attractive, as is the colorful Paragon.  Sharp also gives us a cape, some  pullovers (some in stranding or fair isle), cardigans and an attractively  cabled jacket, casual wear and formal wear sweaters, cables and intarsias.   Some designs are highly appropriate for new knitters, others are simple  examples of intarsia or stranding for those just learning the techniques.   Precious Jewel looks to be the most complex.  In all, this collection is  highly inventive, not so much a departure in Sharp's styles but a ripening  -- and I think she's gone further into styling that is appropriate for the  American market.  Certainly she's one of the best designers out there,  second in inventiveness only to Kaffe Fassett, who seems to be depleted as  far as sweater designs, and comparable to Alice Starmore.  Jo Sharp has 3  or 4 previous books, most quite good.  Knitting Bazaar is a great  collection, a pleasure to browse through, and well-worth adding to your  knitting library.	1999-10-29
US	50935356	R2OMCEP0DVBKQ8	0060193778	865143909	Prisoners Of Hate: The Cognitive Basis of Anger, Hostility, and Violence	Books	5	29	31	N	N	ideas of cognitive therapy/psychology in practice	Beck does a fine job of demonstrating and applying the basic ideas of his therapy to realistic situations that are much too prevalent in America, let alone the world (currently and as history).  Beck explores hatred, the  making of hatred -- sponsored by societies or governments, and the results  of the hatred.  The analysis is poignant and acute.  Probably the theme of  the book can be summed up as &quot;humans find it easier to hate than to  love&quot;.  Some of the historical analysis was tedious, although  historians may not find it so.  Beck leaves us with a hopeful note,  although looking at the state of the world, I am doubtful about optimism.   This is an important book for anyone wishing to understand how the mind  works in the respect that the mind influences the actions, which produce  the tragedies or triumphs.  It is important as well for any person in our  society who finds themselves hating, whether it be towards a race, a  gender, or an individual.  Understanding one's hatred is a step towards  freeing oneself to lead a happier existence.  Looking at hatred in a global  sense leads to understanding just how and why men and women can be made to  create suffering. For more info, I recommend the Biology of Violence by  Niehoff.	1999-10-04
US	50935356	R3GCZS97GIA8C	0060193778	865143909	Prisoners Of Hate: The Cognitive Basis of Anger, Hostility, and Violence	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Excellent, loaded with info on cognitive therapy and emotion	Overflowing with information about cognitive therapy, the book also focuses on negative emotions and behavior.  Psychologists don't often take their knowledge to the scale Beck does, integrating theory and practice  into a view of the world as it is right now -- a world that isn't in very  good shape.  The path to learned hatred is explained, with numerous  examples to help one assimilate the ideas.  Anger, peer groups, etc., are  handled in detail, and the only lack is a more biological perspective, but  that can be found in such books like the Biology of Violence (Niehoff).  A  fine book, worth reading.	1999-09-30
US	50935356	R2G0QZUT0LH97N	0884119564	798989627	Tryst	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Fabulous romantic love story, transcending life	Agreeing with all the other reviewers, this is one of the best romantic stories I have ever read, as well as a stunning and beautifully handled novel on the afterlife.  Along with the film The Ghost and Mrs. Muir, Tryst  is one of the wonderful stories about love that truly meant something, not  like what we read about or see in films lately.  The book is emotionally  moving, but also intelligent, being a contrast to a lot of the nonsense  being written these days.  This is a hopeful story as well as a tragic one,  and it has haunted me for nearly 30 years.  I was ecstatic to discover it  was in print!	1999-09-30
