US	50937332	RZGHMKZ3KNPJY	0843954124	996157105	Flesh Gothic	Books	1	18	25	N	Y	If you like reading horror novels, avoid this one	I'm writing this review in the event that someone else like me is considering buying this; someone who has been reading and enjoying horror novels and thrillers on a regular basis, who loves writers like Joe Lansdale, Jack Ketchum, and Robert McCammon.  If that description fits you, then avoid this piece of sloppily-written pablum at all costs.  Is it violent or depressing?  Not at all.  Let me rephrase that:  NOT AT ALL.  This book literally reads as though it was plotted by a high school freshman who couldn't make the school paper.  It's got more holes in its story than a sandpapered loofa, and the situations are about as frightening as Harry Potter might be if he got a nosebleed.  Got the picture?<br /><br />Here, lemme give you a great example of this 'horror' writing at its finest, word-for-word from page 159:  \\"Something dark yet impossibly light-like accosted her psychic senses.\\"  WHAT?  Folks, if this isn't Mystery Science Theater 3000, then I don't know what is.  What the heck does that description even MEAN?  Here's another doozy, from page 253:  \\"...she tried to calm the other vessel and rose upward, but then her own conscious was nearly shot out of the nave by a burst of unadulterated, full-scale terror...\\"  I don't know about you, but English was my first language, so I figure I understand it fairly well, but... what the heck is that Lionel-train wreck string of words supposed to communicate?<br /><br />I really don't understand the reviews that led me to buy this back-of-the-cereal-box bit of pulp.  Actually, wait - cereal boxes sorta make sense, so let me take that back...<br /><br />Plot holes like... lemme see... women getting raped, then saying \\"It's no big deal\\"  10 MINUTES LATER... a group of psychics with powers so over-the-top they would be BILLIONAIRES by predicting horse races and financial markets (which none them ever did... hmmmm...), people getting murdered, gone missing from families and NOBODY CALLS THE POLICE... A guy who's heard 'every term from the seedy sexual underground' but doesn't know what 'scat' means (seriously)... holy guacamoly, is this really supposed to convince, let alone scare me?<br /><br />The Harry Potter metaphor was apt.  If you get freaked out by Bithalozibib coming down from Zoltar with the scepter of lard (I made all that up, but it's stunningly close to the vibe of this rag)... I mean, with what's happening in the world right now, with so many GENUINELY scary things all over the news, are we still scared by guys with pointy ears from the fifth dimension?  Anyone?<br /><br />I guess there's a reason this author isn't so famous (and it isn't because his writing is 'violent' - let's clear that one up right away).<br /><br />You want violent, try [[ASIN:1894815351 Suffer the Flesh]] by Monica O'Rourke.<br /><br />You want scary, check out [[ASIN:1428516220 The Girl Next Door]] by Jack Ketchum.  THAT'S over the top... that's disturbing and beyond the pale... this book is...<br /><br />...false advertizing.y term from the seedy sexual underground' but doesn't know what 'scat' means (seriously)... holy guacamoly, is this really supposed to convince, let alone scare me?<br /><br />The Harry Potter metaphor was apt.  If you get freaked out by Bithalozibib coming down from Zoltar with the scepter of lard (I made all that up, but it's stunningly close to the vibe of this rag)... I mean, with what's happening in the world right now, with so many GENUINELY scary things all over the news, are we still scared by guys with pointy ears from the fifth dimension?  Anyone?<br /><br />I guess there's a reason this author isn't so famous (and it isn't because his writing is 'violent' - let's clear that one up right away).<br /><br />You want violent, try [[ASIN:1894815351 Suffer the Flesh]] by Monica O'Rourke.<br /><br />You want scary, check out [[ASIN:1428516220 The Girl Next Door]] by Jack Ketchum.  THAT'S over the top... that's disturbing and beyond the pale... this book is...<br /><br />...false advertizing.	2005-09-07
US	50937332	RZZ5HRW8LIKBY	0962477060	161971630	Fretboard Logic SE: The Reasoning Behind the Guitar's Unique Tuning Plus Chords Scales and Arpeggios Complete(2 Volumes)	Books	2	7	16	N	Y	HIGHLY overrated	This review is for people who already play, or are studying playing, who might be interested in sight reading, who are basically approaching the guitar as a serious musical instrument rather than a chord-drone device to sing over.<br /><br />This book is nothing new.  Nothing at all.  Did you know that any scale has a different fingering and form for each of its degrees?  If you know that (and come on, how you be a serious player and not at some point figure that out?) then you're way, way beyond this book.<br /><br />Still, this could be useful for absolute beginners, or chord-droners, or people that play in E or A and know a pentatonic box pattern or two - and that's a LOT of people who play with the guitar.<br /><br />But let's face it, everyone.  The guitar is one of the most difficult instruments out there, yet one of the easiest to just plug away on.  If the guitar were a foriegn language, then most people can say \\"Please\\", \\"Thank you\\", \\"yes\\" and \\"no\\".  The vast majority of these people can't actually speak the language, though.  That's not necessarily a bad thing, just the way it is.<br /><br />I don't mean to sound too harsh.  But there is NO good 'quick-fix' for ANY intrument.  Heck, if you like the instrument, why would you even WANT a quick-fix?  I can absolutely PROMISE that if you study theory and correct technique this book will quickly become virtually useless.<br /><br />I'm writing this because there might be some people looking at this who don't want such a casual approach, and their time would be better spent - and infinitely better rewarded - elsewhere.  Troy Stettina's scale book, for example, or Steve Khan's books, or \\"Advanced Modern Rock Improvizing\\" by John Finn.  Satriani's \\"Guitar Secrets\\" is another good one.  So is \\"Blues You Can Use\\".<br /><br />It just depends ultimately on how serious you plan on getting with the instrument, and how far you want to go.  It takes work, but that's half the fun.	2003-08-06
US	50937332	RRO2YLWJBVQF9	0895261464	690499814	Invasion: How America Still Welcomes Terrorists Criminals & Other Foreign Menaces to Our Shores	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	A hot-dog factory expose - you don't really want to go there	It is crucially important to understand, if you are considering buying this book, that there is absolutely nothing here that slanders immigrants or suggests that immigrants are lawbreakers by association; such reviews are the inevitable consequence of being so lost in one's own rhetoric that words begin to lose meaning; at worst, these are people who didn't read beyond the front flap of the dustcover, if that much.<br />Malkin describes how ridiculously easy it is to cross the border from Canada, that border (in a post 9-11 world) being patrolled by less than 100 troopers at a time.  Get out a map, and look at that border, then think of less than 100 employees.  Recently the news has been tripping over stories of \\"five wanted Pakistanis\\" who crossed over from Canada.  As my title says, it's just another day in the hot-dog factory...<br />The immigration computer system is underused, and in many instances, not even properly installed.<br />Immigration regularly clears immigrants with extensive criminal records in their home countries, including violent offenders.  I don't see this as being undesirable discrimination.  ...<br />This is not a conservative or liberla issue, it's a common sense one.  It's a matter of making sure the security of this country comes first - which is how it is supposed to be, according to the Constitution and the CIA charter.  ... This book really helped me to understand just how much of a mess our immigration system is, how badly its priorities have been misplaced, and how this flies in the face of our supposed desire to curb terrorism here in the US.<br />If you don't read it, it should be because you really don't want to know just how bad the system is; but NOT because it is 'politically incorrect'.<br />The last time I checked, truth didn't have much of an agenda.	2003-01-03
US	50937332	R68R0ABHPTU45	0812090454	911250736	Japanese Idioms (Barron's Idioms Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Based on size and content, this is one of the best	For me, a big part of any language book's usefulness is based not only on content, but portability and durability as well - I'm always on the go, and I've had more than one book fall apart in my bag, and very often two or more weigh it down and take up way too much space on a crowded train.  That said, this book ROCKS!  Okay, so it - like all other books of Japanese idioms - is not always up to date, and you will need to try these on a friend to see if they're still in vogue or old enough to sound awkward... but the volume is there, with many hundreds of idioms, categorized by usage situation as well as romnji alphebetization.  There is a whole lot of information in this book, and used properly will go far toward giving you a more natural turn of phrase in casual conversation.  But here's what puts the package over the top - it's tiny, and it comes in a plastic slipcase!  You can put this book in your pocket!  It's a bit bigger than a deck of cards, and the plastic means you can drop it, kick it, throw it in a shopping bag and it'll be none the worse for wear.  Also, the spine does not crease easily, which is another thoughtful touch.  If you need it to be portable, this is truly the best study guide available.	2002-10-08
US	50937332	R3GYU0HSC4XJV4	1562010719	879795982	Shades of Singapore: Sister Sarah Balfour's Memoirs of Judicial Caning in South Africa, Vol. I	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Verrrry compulsive fetishism - well, ok!	This has to be Balfour's greatest, fully focused magnum opus.  Every chapter is one girl after another being paddled, all sorts of girls - rich ones, poor ones, fat ones, well dressed ones, white and black ones, and on and on... straddling the 'horse' and being paddled or birched until she pleads for mercy.  And over 300 pages of it!  I should warn casual observers that this is probably going to be too much for them to enjoy beyond the first 100 pages, but if you have a prediliction for either corporal punishment or obsessive fetishist pornography, go for it!  Considering these Blue Moon titles go in and out of print, you never know when you'll see another Balfour when this edition is gone, and buying it now sure beats rifling through used bookstores for a spine-creased copy.<br />I'll sum it up this way:  Six or seven hours of flippant descriptions of wailing women having their bottoms striped.  No affection, no lovemaking, no kissing.  No filler, and no pretense.<br />Sounds good, no?	2002-07-12
US	50937332	R1LVWA6YFU24JK	0843949163	214085109	In the Dark	Books	1	8	13	N	N	One of the worst books I've ever read - really!	You know, it is such a shame that a great plot kernel could be so badly fouled by the author Richard Laymon.  It's safe to say that any writer, let alone a competent one, given the same idea for a story could actually turn out something interesting with it.<br />Charactarizations in this book are sloppy to the point of being absurd.  Any thoughtful reader will find themselves thinking 'yeah, right' on just about every page.  Laymon just propels his main character (believe me, calling Jane a 'character' is a bit of an overstatement) into situations that are neither believable nor competently described.  This novel is a hack in every sense of the word.<br />The dialogue is beyond contrived.  Responses to situations are utterly and completely unbelievable.  How can anyone be thrilled or scared by a story that they can't ever believe in?  Do women get raped and literally forget about it ten minutes later?  Do brutalized and injured women start wistfully talking about past relationships rather than asking to be taken to a hospital, or even rubbing their cuts?<br />In this book, that's just the tip of the iceberg.  ...	2002-05-24
US	50937332	R32LG5PBZUZUQG	1568331495	961629551	Inferno: The Fire Bombing of Japan, March 9 - August 15, 1945	Books	5	17	29	N	Y	A heartbreaking account of neglected history	Most people are unaware that the firebombing campaign of Curtis LeMay killed more people - the vast majority of them civilian - than both of the atomic bombings combined.  LeMay himself said that if his country did not win the war, he would be tried as a war criminal.<br />Hoyt here alternates between accounts of the bombing missions, the evolution of their inciniary civilian bombing campaign, and the stories of families on the ground during the conflagration.  He is in top form here, shedding a bright light on one of the darkest corners of the Pacific War, and it is both uncomfortable and unsettling.  In particular, the chapter &quot;Road to Hiroshima&quot; will leave you with both a chill and a tear in your eye.  The writing is clear and lucid, and eyewitness accounts are all cross-referenced.  The book is short and will be read quickly, in just a day or two, but it is valuable for cross-referencing general histories in which the firebombing campaign is usually (shamefully) reduced to a single paragraph or less.<br />You will leave this book with a bitter understanding of the distilled trajedy that was the Pacific War, of the unchecked destruction and wanton slaughter that became not only expected, but as some would argue, necessary.  That such killing could ever become justified is the lesson that we non-veterans must not just learn but know.<br /><br />We must, as armchair historians, allow ourselves to see the practices and results of our great nation's military, so that we might learn from them and absorb whatever lessons we can from the honor and courage of the men who fought there... and, bitterly, the women and children who died there.  We owe it to the participants as well as both of our countries as well as the generations of future children to preserve the stories of our victories, however phyrric they might be.<br />Edwin Hoyt has done a superb job of communicating these thoughts.  If you have an interest in the Pacific War, this is recommended reading.  Its a hardcover as well, so it makes a nice addition to your library.  Thank you, Mr. Hoyt.ts a hardcover as well, so it makes a nice addition to your library.  Thank you, Mr. Hoyt.	2002-05-09
US	50937332	R124T3A2D3LLKK	0609609874	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	A bombshell for news junkies - provacative for all Americans	This book astonished me.  Could the failed CIA-organized coup in Iraq back in the 90's really have failed because of Tony Lake's direct intervention?  Did America really cut off its nose by virtually destorying its Arabic intelligence-gathering missions following that misreportage?  Was 9-11 preventable, if not avoidable?<br />Well, according to Mr. Baer, the answer to all of those questions is yes.  He was there, in the middle of it, running leads and gathering whatever intelligence he could in the Middle East for a span of about twenty years, getting out in the mid 90s when the CIA was 'overhauled' at the hands of the FBI.<br />This is a 'you're there with him' book, and Mr. Bear's writing is never slow or disinteresting.  Is it all true, though?  Given Bear's background and the 'official' censorship by the current CIA administration of many passages in the book, I have little reason to doubt him.  He claims to have solved the Beirut embassy bombing in which hundreds of marines were killed.  He claims the US called a halt to the Kurdish-organized coup of Hussein with 24 hours of its planned execution, dooming it to failure.<br />This is deeply disturbing material.<br />If you ever wondered how foriegn spies are recruited, read this.  If you want a down-and-dirty account of our failed intelligence mission, read this.<br />Also reccommended:  &quot;American Jihad&quot;, &quot;Hazardous Duty&quot;, &quot;Report From Ground Zero&quot; and &quot;War In a Time of Peace&quot; (a bit dry, but great backround on Clinton's foriegn policy cabinet during the years Bear was running contacts in Iraq).	2002-04-18
US	50937332	R69868W1GBNBK	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Part of an ongoing education, a tearful inspiration	This book is an absolutely unsentimental rememberance and meditation on the attack on the World Trade Center which occurred on September 11th. Mr. Smith is not politicizing or theologizing, two things which are all too easy to do in a situation - and recollection - such as this. As an ex-firefighter, Dennis Smith is recording the events of the attack and the recovery in order that this timeline might be recorded into history, a document which will survive the temporality of news broadcasts and obituary columns. He has also very effectively eulogized the fallen victims of this horrendous crime without ever lowering a heavy hand. Their stories and portraits are enough; Smith feels this as keenly as he knows it, and hs almost laconic style portrays the subject with a distilled clarity we would not expect from writing on this subject, from someone so close to it.<br />The first half of the book is the story - most of the time in their own words - of the rescue workers themselves on the Morning of September 11th. The second half is a day-by-day record of the rescue efforts for approximately three months following. This is a book of on-the-ground, you-are-there style journalism, not a reporter's remotely administered conclusions and hearsay, and as such, it will be a lasting and important document in the coming flurry of books about the attacks of September 11th.<br />Very highly recommended.	2002-04-10
US	50937332	R7APL22RQIXPN	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Part of an ongoing education, a tearful inspiration	This book is an absolutely unsentimental rememberance and meditation on the attack on the World Trade Center which occurred on September 11th.  Mr. Smith is not politicizing or theologizing, two things which are all too easy to do in a situation - and recollection - such as this.  As an ex-firefighter, Dennis Smith is recording the events of the attack and the recovery in order that this timeline might be recorded into history, a document which will survive the temporal nature of news broadcasts and obituary columns.  He has also very effectively eulogized the fallen victims of this horrendous crime without ever lowering a heavy hand.  Their stories and portraits are enough; Smith feels this as keenly as he knows it, and hs almost laconic style portrays the subject with a distilled clarity we would not expect from writing on this subject, from someone so close to it.<br />The first half of the book is the story - most of the time in their own words - of the rescue workers themselves on the Morning of September 11th.  The second half is a day-by-day record of the rescue efforts for approximately three months following.  This is a book of on-the-ground, you-are-there style journalism, not a reporter's remotely administered conclusions and hearsay, and as such, it will be a lasting and important document in the coming flurry of books about the attacks of September 11th.<br />Very highly recommended.	2002-04-10
US	50937332	R25OGUGJ2UI1W6	0914646486	103278691	The Adventures of Sweet Gwendoline, 2nd Edition	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	A beautiful, beautiful volume	If you have the Taschen reprints of the collected Bizarre magazines and are wondering about this book - as I was - don't worry.  This book is almost all different material, a good portion of it previously unpublished, and the quality of the edition is high enough to make it a keepsake in anyone's library.  John Willie was, without equivocation, the master of genteel fetish art, technically beautiful illustrations of gorgeous women simultaneously in formal attire and bondage.  If it sounds quirky, it is, and it is that quirkiness married to Willie's technical prowess and self-restraint which makes this collection as intriguing - and engaging - as it is.  There is no sex here, and no full nudity.  If you've never seen this work, imagine a Vargas or Elvgren print but with the pretty girl not smiling, but bound somehow or being costumed and you begin to get an idea of what John Willie was doing with his illustrative life.<br />BUT - just imagining these images does them no justice.  Willie never used any 'dirty' words, and his characters are styled after 1930's and '40 serial digest types, even as his work moved into the 1960's.  The overall effect is that of a fully conceived world, a complete universe of Willie's - and ours, as the readers - shared neurosis, of our fully realized but morally checked 'fun and nonsense' (Willie's words, not mine).<br />I am enamoured of this work.  It is aesthectically beautiful, it is emotionally engaging, it is affectionate and ironic all at the same time.  Where Bizarre magazine left off this volume continues, and where Bizarre is a rememberance this volume is better described as a tribute.<br />And a more fitting tribute could not be produced.  This is an oversized hardcover, cloth bound and with a cloth bookmark - the binding and cover are both very well made, obviously a labor of publishing love.  The paper stock is very thick (unlike the Taschen Bizarre collection) and acid-free.  The cover of this book is stunning, and even from the spine a beautiful illustration of Gwendoline is visible when the volume is shelved.  This is a bibliophile's book, something we see less and less of these days, whose physical presentation was designed to compiliment its content.<br />Included are also some sketches and unfinished work, and it is always fun to see an artist we admire in their off-the-cuff moments, forming ideas or simply riffing without worrying about an audience.  A brief - the best I've read - biography is included, as well as several photographs of the artist himself.  There are several full color plates as well, watercolors of Willie taken from private collections.<br />A beautiful, absolutely beautiful volume.  Of the many books I buy and sell and trade, this will stay in my library forever.  I can offer no higher recommendation.the spine a beautiful illustration of Gwendoline is visible when the volume is shelved.  This is a bibliophile's book, something we see less and less of these days, whose physical presentation was designed to compiliment its content.<br />Included are also some sketches and unfinished work, and it is always fun to see an artist we admire in their off-the-cuff moments, forming ideas or simply riffing without worrying about an audience.  A brief - the best I've read - biography is included, as well as several photographs of the artist himself.  There are several full color plates as well, watercolors of Willie taken from private collections.<br />A beautiful, absolutely beautiful volume.  Of the many books I buy and sell and trade, this will stay in my library forever.  I can offer no higher recommendation.	2002-03-20
US	50937332	R20NIJV8RGTPHY	4770026838	537818360	The Handbook of Japanese Verbs	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Subarashi!	This very friendly little book is a fantastic tutorial in the proper use of Japanese verb forms in nearly all their conjugations and uses.  Sample sentences are throughout, most of them quite useful and suitable for memorization verbatim, and workbook style drills accompany every section of every chapter.<br />This is, however, more of a workbook than a reference; for the latter, look no further than Naoko Chino's &quot;Japanese Verbs at a Glance&quot;.  For a workbook, however, this has (in my experience) no peer.<br />&quot;Language learning is overlearning&quot;, and with that in mind, Kamiya offers lots of practice and sample bunkei which, when worked through, will offer a truly impressive insight into the mechanics of Japanese verb USAGE (not just academic conjugation).<br />My last class (I'm a second year student at the Geos School in NYC) taught me the '-nagara' verb ending.  By using Kamiya's book at home these past few days I feel confident in my usage of what amounted to no more than a footnote in &quot;Japanese For Busy People II&quot; textbook.  Excellent.  Now I can tell my girlfriend not to talk with her mouth full!<br />A fun, fine, and ultimately indespensible book for any (that means all) verb-challenged intermediate students.  Kamiya is one of the best teachers I've studied - try to get a copy of her &quot;Japanese Particle Workbook&quot; - another five star title on a stubbornly difficult subject.	2002-02-28
US	50937332	R14NTWY1DJRRYL	0743211987	136083940	The Story of World War II: Revised, expanded, and updated from the original text by Henry Steele Commager	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Great for a general overview of America's role in WWII	I really enjoyed this book.  For a long time I wanted to read a general history of the entire second world war, and the nice thing about this particular one is its use of some more contemporary perspectives.  The book is split almost evenly between Miller and Commager's informative text and first person accounts by the soldiers and reporters who were actually in these battles.  As such it paints a vivid portrait of the asolute hell that the world was so relentlessly plunged headfirst into in the first half of the 20th Century.  There is emotion as well as research here, and a nice tribute paid to the black and Asian soldiers who fought on behalf of their country - a country which had, paradoxically, treated them with such disdain.  This really is not a comprehensive history, per se, but at about 650 pages for the entire war, it never could be.  It is an engaging, enlightening, and disturbing book, though, which is all one could ask from a general history.  Lots of pictures and about 25 maps round it out - there could stand to be some more maps, but I used the Cassell Atlas of the Second World War to supplement this with.  Another good point is that this is really a high quality book.  It is oversized and a bit heavy, and the paper is a thick stock with very easy typeface. The book also lies flat, which might be an important consideration.  This was obviously the pet project of someone at Simon &amp; Shuster, because in packaging and presentation this book is a cut above most new history books.  A fine volume, and a welcome addition to anyone's library, be it a supplement to other history texts or not.  I know that I will refer back to it when I continue my ongoing studies on the Pacific War, and that says quite about about its importance right there.	2002-02-11
US	50937332	R2Y4AEDMO00H6T	0304352861	852536967	The Cassell Atlas Of The Second World War	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Truly an indispesible addition to any history library	this is truly one of the few books that is worth much more than its asking price.  I use this as a companion to all of my WWII studies; right now that consists of &quot;Crisis In the Philipines&quot; by Gerald Astor and &quot;The Story of World War II&quot; by Donald Miller (both excellent books).  The maps here are detailed enough that they contain all necessary information including troop movements, CO names, dates, and geographic features - and, as an added bonus, the book lies flat when opened.  That means you can open to the map of your study, put the book on your desk or kitchen table or bed in front of you, and have your other history book in your hands, looking over at the maps when you need to spot a reference.  Absolutely fantastic.  Additionally, each map has a very brief account of the battle and its outcome, good for a quick review.  This atlas covers all campaigns, African, Asian, European and Pacific, and all with equal attention to detail.  I have the now out-of-print &quot;Pacific War Atlas&quot; as well, but this book does the same job, and does it with more detail and in a more convenient format.  I will soon be reading &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; and &quot;Day Of Infamy&quot; and know that this book will be open through the text of both of them.  there can't be a higher reccommendation than that.  High quality binding and thick paper stock round out the package.  If you have even a slight interest in the Second World War, buy it now.	2002-02-01
US	50937332	R2W9TMCX98RKAZ	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A necessary education	Having just finished Gourevitch's book, it will certainly take a long time to sink in.  I will have to return to it, to reread certain passages; I will have a copy of Nachtwey's &quot;Inferno&quot; beside me for a visual feedback, I will stop and put it away because it is overwhelming, and then I'll go back and try to understand it again.<br />This is not a matter of understanding the book per se, so much as it is a process of understanding our responses to it, and our ability to reconcile the profound injustices it catalogs.  For me a very telling phrase in the book was &quot;...in fact, Mars is of a greater strategic interest to the West than Rwanda is.  But human beings live in Rwanda...&quot;<br />In struggling to understand the turbulent time I - as a middle class American - have been so effectively sheltered from, this book came as a watershed.  I can't trust the news anymore.  I can't think of different cultures as 'other' anymore, and I can only do my best to stay informed and active to really, really make sure that this sort of thing doesn't happen again, ever.<br />A full-scale genocide unfolded right under our OJ-occupied noses, folks, and almost a million innocents were slaughtered in the matter of few months.  This is the story of what happened, and why, and what we all did - and didn't - do about it.	2001-12-12
US	50937332	R1S28KWAILM66G	0786004800	992322112	Bad Karma	Books	2	18	23	N	Y	Could have been worse, should have been better	Bad Karma is ultimately a novel that works better in concept and packaging than actual presentation.  The problem here is that such a cliched story could only work with truly believable characterizations and dialogue - and this is where Harper doesn't (or can't) quite deliver.  What we get are character types, not individuals, and the entire story suffers as a result.  Yes, Agnes is truly a menacing psychopath, and the sometimes violent imagery of her crimes can be unsettling... but it all winds up diffusing itself when you read a few lines of dialogue and think &quot;kids don't talk like that&quot; or &quot;why doesn't he/she just...?&quot;  In other words, Harper hacks a bit too much for the medium to become truly transparent, which is the only way a novel like this could truly succeed.  Comparing this to Thomas Harris is not entirely accurate, as Harris is much more adept at that level of technical transparency, whereas Harper comes off as just a bit too average.  It is a short book, meaning you can read it in a day or two, and it is mildly diverting, but be warned:  It is neither thrilling nor engrossing, which, for a novel about a rampant psychopath terrorizing a vacationing family, is perhaps the most unsettling crime of all.	2001-10-10
US	50937332	R3MQUHHHLUXXJ1	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	I shouldn't have liked it, but I did...	This really is a fun book, first and foremost.  Realism aside, literary merit aside, it is the equivalent of a big-budget Hollywood action-fest with no time allowed for a popcorn run... it really is that fast and furious.  I personally had never read anything quite like it; a novel that was nothing (and I do mean NOTHING) but two fisted action.  The first gunfight was spectacular and really engrossing, and the rest of the book kept a similar momentum.  Now, I suppose we could criticize the realism here, but it is important to keep in mind that we could also peck at the realism in the movie 'Predator' as well, which also stands as a fantastically diverting action experience.  Of course physics is occassionally suspended and the impossible occasionally becomes feasible - but Reilly has fashioned a piece of pure FICTION, not a recreation of history (I would feel quite differently if the book was about a historically documented event).  If you want a diversion, read this book.  If you've been slugging through too many forehead-knotting texts and want a purely escapist break, read this book.  Why only three stars, then?  Well, five is perfect, and four is 'buy it immediately'.  Despite enjoying this as much as I did, it is not really the kind of book that rises above its utility.  In other words, once finished, you'll never go back to it except as a memory.  That said, three stars is perfectly adequate.  But don't think that's not a reccomendation - if big explosions and a two-day read are what you're after, look no further.  Fun.	2001-10-05
US	50937332	R2ACYMWUEIG6OF	0440236304	35995058	Currahee!: A Screaming Eagle at Normandy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent memoir of two weeks in heavy combat	The most striking thing about this is Burgett's simple, laconic style:  This is not the work of a writer, but a soldier, and as such, he never imparts a political or moralist overtone.  This is simply what happened to him as he remembered it, the training and fighting and blood and humanity.  Burgett tells about Paratrooper school and its rigors, about being dropped behind enemy lines, and about plowing through hailstorms of bullets into what would be one of the hottest ground firefights in military history.  Thank the stars he survived, because writing like this is as hard to come by as it is historically valuable - a soldier's story, and a soldier who is unafraid to tell you what he remembers without interjecting opions about political affairs or larger morality.  Just 'I did this, it felt this way, and this what I saw'.  Absolutely astonishing.  This is by far one of the best supplements available to anyone studying the Second World war in Europe, much as Hersey's 'Hiroshima' is to anyone studying the Pacific campaign.  You will not learn about diplomacy or the reasoning of Generals here, but you will be on the ground in the firefight, astonished to get out of it in one piece.  The section on boot camp is also a welcome addition to the history of this most trajic war, as it is an aspect to American soldiering very often overlooked or underplayed.  All in all, a very readable, utterly compelling piece of history, unclouded by emotion or agenda, worth much more than the five or six dollars it sells for.  It is worth noting, however - and Ambrose makes mention of it in the introduction as well - that as a memoir there are certain pieces which Burgett assumes as a soldier from all the excitement on the ground which are more hearsay than not.  He reports seeing a dead Japanese in the fight, but as he did not know what Japanese uniforms looked like, he was probably saw the body of a Russian Mongol.  In some way, though, this adds to the authenticity of the account, as we are behind the eyes of an eighteen year old boy dropped into the middle of a bloodbath, there to save the world.  This is an important, valuable book.we are behind the eyes of an eighteen year old boy dropped into the middle of a bloodbath, there to save the world.  This is an important, valuable book.	2001-10-01
US	50937332	R24VPN8U1163DF	4770023022	738621969	13 Secrets for Speaking Fluent Japanese	Books	5	18	20	N	N	great book to supplement your studies!	In selecting books on Japanese, it's all too easy to pick one out based solely on the potential it seemingly contains, the critical utility it will serve once you've gone through the arduous task of internalizing it --- only to discover a few weeks or months later that you haven't touched it, let alone used its lessons in any pragmatic way.  Well, rest assured, this is one book you most certainly CAN use, and it is entertaining enough to supply many moments of cross-cultural laughter.  Just memorize the jokes in the chapter on childrens' puns, for example, and ask them when the moment presents itself to any native Japanese.  I guarantee you will have fun that outing.  Memorize the forms of exaggeration, also, and pepper them in your speech now and again for more smiles and laughs.  If you are in school, and you occassionally use these phrases, you will get compliments from your teachers and questioning stares from your peers:  How did you learn THAT?  There is a chapter on numbers that it likewise useful, asking you to count in excess of 100 billion, and integrate those into census statistics.  So while you learn to count, you also learn how to say a few facts about Japan that most Japanese probably don't know!  Murray largely steers clear of slang in this volume, ensuring that you won't be saying &quot;Hip, Daddy-o&quot; or some other outmoded colloquialism, which is always a risk with a 'new' Japanese text.  Also, the book is varied enough that you can mine it for new uses as you learn; I've been opening it for the past eight months, and I still have a year to go before it all really falls into place.  All in all, a wonderful supplement, and one of a handful of 'secret weapon' supplements that will jump-start your Japanese into the arena of actual, meaningful COMMUNICATION.	2001-07-30
US	50937332	REAER6QYJI67N	0300001355	932528412	Beginning Japanese: Part 1 (Yale Language Series) (Pt. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A classic for good reason	Drills drills drills!  If you work through the ubiquidous &quot;Japanese For Busy People&quot; published by AJALT without having perused this tome of a textbook, then you're doing yourself a huge disservice.  Jorden and Chaplin here present one of the most exercize-intensive books you are likely to find, and any beginning or intermediate student of Japanese knows that is a good thing.  Every chapter contains hundreds of example sentences and drills, each one just slightly more advanced than the one before, and while there is next to no kana here, consider it a boot-camp workout for anyone who wants to speak this most difficult language.  When I recently went through my textbooks to thin them out, this was one book which I did not even consider getting rid of.  Even though it's for beginners there is enough practice here to warm up second and third year students as well.  This is really a classic text and workbook which deserves enduring status.  You want to know about Japanese?  This is probably not the best choice - but if you want to speak Japanese, you could do no better than this exhaustive collection.	2001-07-25
US	50937332	RGPENOLRE3E9W	0446607576	748599358	Rumble Tumble	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	What can I say?  I like Lansdale and this doesn't disappoint	If you've read any of Lansdale's Hap and Leonard books then you know what to expect, and you know that it can't be a bad thing.  Lansdale is one of the few purely diversionary novelists who I still buy and read, and this book is a perfect example why.  Its over in a day or two, and the ride is funny, suspenseful, and somehow humane.  Nothing new here, and the earlier books (&quot;Mucho Mojo&quot; etc.) do it just a smidge better, but for what it is - a fistfight of a paperback with explosive action and absurd situations - it is exemplary.  Drug-addicted prostitutes, a midget pimp, two tough guys and a renegade pilot... really, how could you go wrong with that mix?  A good paperback with a slightly better pedigree than execution, but recommended nonetheless.	2001-07-25
US	50937332	R1R5IOE12ZO7U7	0300001355	932528412	Beginning Japanese: Part 1 (Yale Language Series) (Pt. 1)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A classic for good reason	Drills drills drills!  If you work through the ubiquidous &quot;Japanese For Busy People&quot; published by AJALT without having perused this tome of a textbook, then you're doing yourself a huge disservice.  Jorden and Chaplin here present one of the most exercize-intensive books you are likely to find, and any beginning or intermediate student of Japanese knows that is a good thing.  Every chapter contains hundreds of example sentences and drills, each one just slightly more advanced than the one before, and while there is next to no kana here, consider it a boot-camp workout for anyone who wants to speak this most difficult language.  When I recently went through my textbooks to thin them out, this was one book which I did not even consider getting rid of.  Even though it's for beginners there is enough practice here to warm up second and third year students as well.  This is really a classic text and workbook which deserves enduring status.  You want to know about Japanese?  This is probably not the best choice - but if you want to speak Japanese, you could do no better than this exhaustive collection.	2001-07-25
US	50937332	RG1YLXLTI391Z	1889950017	329214883	Visual Japanese Verbs (Language Express Cards) (Japanese Edition)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	I can't recommend these highly enough	if you are trying to study Japanese and you're not in Japan, you know that the odds are stacked against you - without hearing it constantly, and reading it everywhere, the learning process is much more arduous.  Well, imagine having these little cards that you can carry ANYWHERE because they're so small and are conveniently bound together with a steel keyring!  They even have durable plastic covers to keep the face and front cards from getting grungy.  If you carry these cards around, glancing at them while waiting for a train, standing on line at the supermarket, or between commercials, I GUARANTEE you'll pick up three or four - at the bare minimum - vocabulary words every day.  Let that sink in, then buy these cards while you can.  Why couldn't the Tuttle kanji cards have been presented so neatly?	2001-07-18
US	50937332	R1C9GIYGFW254T	0446401889	333894543	The Two-Bear Mambo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gold medal thrillers for the 21st century - excellent!	I can't praise Lansdale enough.  As well, I can't understand why he hasn't become as popular as he so well deserves.  I LOVE these Hap and Leonard novels, with their wise-cracking, hard hitting, politically incorrect protragonists.  This is two fisted action without so much as a concerned whim for anyone's feelings - you will find something to make you laugh on nearly every page.  Great stuff.  If you haven't yet read Lansdale, this is an excellent place to start.  The writing is good enough that any reader will find themselves drawn in, if not for plot then dialogue, and if not for dialogue for setting.  Somehow Lansdale pulls it all off without ever seeming strained or contrived. High pulp the stands with the best of them - Goodis, thompson, Whittington, Rabe, and now Lansdale.  Get it while you can!	2001-07-09
US	50937332	RQUFWF27PRN6I	0300019130	853799098	Reading Japanese (Yale Language Series) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Absolutely the best book for beginning kanji	Although there are plenty of mnemonic systems to learn kanji, such as [[ASIN:0824835921 Remembering the Kanji, Volume 1: A Complete Course on How Not to Forget the Meaning and Writing of Japanese Characters]] and Rowley's excellent [[ASIN:0962813702 Kanji Pict-O-Graphix: Over 1,000 Japanese Kanji and Kana Mnemonics]], this is by far the best way to RETAIN the characters, and to actually read - instead of visually decode them.  The examples following each kanji are numerous and include varying levels of formality, and are mixed male and female responses.  This makes for excellent cross-study, and further reinforces the varietous ways in which kanji are used in Japanese writing.  I would suggest the Heisig or Rowley to supplement this book, as both of those two employ a system which breaks down kanji into its 'radicals', which is very useful for trying to visually decipher new characters, but for sheer drills and practice, this is the only way to go.  I am on my second copy of this text, as the first one was totally worn out, which by itself makes quite a strong statement - that didn't even happen to my school-assigned Japanese textbooks!	2001-06-28
US	50937332	R10XPDVN5TO6FO	1562011596	160551879	Lorna Barrett	Books	4	4	6	N	N	fetishist repetition - but it works in this book	I have to state up front that this is a spanking book; there is no sexual contact, and no 'traditional' pornographic imagery.  Balfour is clearly obsessed with the thought of paddling a young, pretty, bobby-socked high-school girl until she screams for mercy.  However, he has clearly spent so much time refining his sensibility in this respect, building upon what must have been overly-practiced desensitizations, that this falls nicely in line with other such obsessive titles such as &quot;Algiers Tomorrow&quot; by Dedeaux or &quot;Max&quot; by Manton.  While this is decidedly not as agressive as either of those two, it is nevertheless truly entertaining to imagine this buxome rosy-cheeked teenager carefully adjusting herself before enduring the pain of simply sitting down.  It is repetetive.  In some odd way, though, that accounts for part of its charm.  A good summertime book, and recommended to fans of recreational corporal punishment.	2001-06-26
US	50937332	R3823NO66BFMVR	0844284955	481128637	Easy Japanese	Books	5	110	112	N	N	My first serious textbook and still my favorite	I will only say that after studying on my own for two years, and now completing my first year at school, it is this book I turn to for inspiration as well as condensed facts and grammatical sidelights.  The key here is that Seward teaches Japanese out of pure ENJOYMENT, not a stale sense of 'I must learn it for the upcoming business meeting' which plagues all too many 'standard' beginning texts.  In social situations, Seward's hilarious bunkei have provoked laughs and discussion amoung students and teachers alike - and some are surprisingly useful - &quot;Get that stinky thing out of here quickly&quot;, for example (ever been near a Japanese kitchen when daikon is being boiled and you'll know what I mean!).  This is a great textbook; a thorough introduction, a detailed review, and a funny ice breaker all in one.  I own about thirty instructional texts on Japanese, and this is easily in the top five.	2001-05-16
