US	50932580	R5SVYX3PDCL0M	0375706070	758404187	Ecology of Fear: Los Angeles and the Imagination of Disaster	Books	3	18	21	N	N	This sequel does not live up to the original	It's too bad Mike Davis settled for this book. After reading his first book, City of Quartz, I expected more. Ecology of Fears lacks the energy of City of Quartz, the writing style becomes more erratic, and the subject matter is nowhere near as compelling.<br />The events that took place in Southern California in the 1990's would have fit perfectly in Davis's world view that Los Angeles is a city fated by the gods to die an early and tragic death. Anyone who lived in Los Angeles through the 1990's knows that this was a dynamic period of big events and major changes - for good and bad. This decade deserves a good book worthy of its tumult and transformation. Ecology of Fear is not that book.<br />Unfortunately, what he produced ventured frequently into the bizarre and byzantine, and if the Los Angeles Times is to be believed, downright falsehoods. The book's basic premise was that Los Angeles is a land fraught with Mother Nature's castatrophies that has been misrepresented to the masses as an earthly paradise. To support his point, we get a chapter on Southland tornadoes, a chapter on man eating mountain lions living in the hills, and then a chapter on apartment fires of the 20th Century. Don't forget the chapter on L.A.'s propensity to flood where he repeats all the cliches about the Los Angeles River. Honestly, as an Angeleno, these are the last things I'm going to worry about (earthquakes, to which he also devotes a chapter, are another matter). It was as if Davis was trying to will his fantasies about the destruction of L.A. into existence through this book.<br />Now for the positive things about this book. The chapter on the destruction of the environment and the neglect of building an adequate park system is very good. This is surely one of the tragedies of Los Angeles. His chapter on the Los Angeles riots is excellent, and he has a section on Mayor James Hahn, who was then City Attorney, which was enlightening.<br />This is a good book to skim. Many of his statements have been proven to be false, and who really wants to read 50+ pages about the danger of tornadoes in Los Angeles? Davis could have done better than this.tatements have been proven to be false, and who really wants to read 50+ pages about the danger of tornadoes in Los Angeles? Davis could have done better than this.	2003-04-08
US	50932580	R2J7AVCTL7F54V	0520229401	149726543	Ishi in Two Worlds: A Biography of the Last Wild Indian in North America	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Timeless	This was one of the most fascinating and thought provoking books I have ever read. It is a beautifully written book that brings with it an entire range of emotions from rage and disgust, to hope and forgiveness.<br />I thought that the best part about this book was the look into Ishi's Yahi and Yana culture, and its overview of California indian tribes in general. The myth that the Californian indians were a simple and childlike race subsisting on what they could dig from the ground is thoroughly debunked by this book.<br />California's varied geography produced one of the most culturally diverse places on planet earth prior to white settlement. Interestingly, this belief that California is made up of many sub-states still exists, and books have been written about the various regional differences within California. The same was true for the aboriginal tribes, and Kroeber brings amazing facts to light about this. According to Kroeber, California was made up of 250 distinct tribes, many with their own languages, culture, and customs. Of the six super-languauge groups of North American Indians, 5 were represented in California. According to best estimates, these five language groups divided themselves into 113 distict spoken languages. Only Sudan and New Guinea have comparable cultural and linguistic diversity. One fact that floored me was that the Yahi language was bifurcated between a male and female dialect. Males and females used these dialects when they were in groups of their own sex. When a male reached puberty, he was taken from the care of his mother and other women, and lived in almost an exclusively male world were he learned the male dialect and hunting skills.<br />Kroeber opens the book with this linguistic/cultural look at California indian culture just prior to white migration, and goes into great detail about Ishi's tribal culture in particular. (We even get a lesson on the term \\"glottochronology\\" which is the study of the roots of a particular language). About a third of the book is this background, and I found it to be absolutely fascinating.<br />The book also spends considerable time on the extermination of the Northern California indians and Ishi's tribe in particular. Of course, these accounts are horrible and no less disturbing than accounts of the Jewish holocaust. The indians were seen as varmits, and they were exterminated with the same attitude that the wolves, grizzlies, and other unwanted wildlife were exterminated. Of course, this was not the attitude of all whites, but not enough of them stood up to stop the carnage.<br />Beyond the stories of human slaughter, racism and genocide, the greatest tragedy was that cultures, which existed with amazing complexity and richness for centuries, were obliterated and replaced with a white mono-culture within 15 - 20 years.<br />The last third of the book deals with Ishi's discovery and how he lived his remaining days under the care of the authors husband, an anthropologist at UC Berkeley. The relationship between the anthropology department at Berkeley and Ishi was one of the only beneficial outcomes of the collision between Anglo and Native cultures. Ishi (not his real name, but a pseudonym he adopted after capture) is given a room at the anthropology museum and is made assistant janitor to help cover his living expenses.<br />It is during this time that he imparts his language and culture to save it from oblivion and to provide future generations, like myself, the ability to learn about Yahi life. Ishi is also treated with respect and dignity, and despite a life of mistreatment, Ishi shows no resentment or bitterness towards white society.<br />I believe the main injustice done to Ishi by Berkeley was that after his death they allowed the removal of his brain for study, in direct violation of his cultural beliefs about keeping the body whole for cremation.  His brain was sent it to the Smithsonian Institute where it was kept in storage for almost 100 years.This was unnescesary, and it has taken almost an entire century to return his brain and provide final dignity to this man.ears. This was unnescesary, and it has taken almost an entire century to return his brain and provide final dignity to this man.	2003-03-08
US	50932580	R1N1F0VRNFBQU1	007134649X	596647619	The Irwin Guide to Using The Wall Street Journal, 6th Edition	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Good Monetary Primer	This book is a good introduction to the principles of the macro economy.<br />The author explains the basics of the federal reserve system, monetary policy, the causes and effects of inflation, and various personal investment products such as stocks, mutual funds, commodities, and money market accounts. The basics of each is explained, and the author shows how each is tracked daily in the Wall Street Journal. The purpose is to allow individuals to understand their investments, track their progress, and be able to react to changing market conditions. Its all sounds very axiomatic, but the great thing about this book is that it states basic principles that are often assumed, and thus left unstated.<br />For example, if the following excerpts are helpful to you, then this would be a great book for you:<br />Page 15: \\"The forces of supply and demand condition every business cycle.\\"<br />Page 25: \\"Bank lending finances spending, and spending generates inflation. The Fed controls bank lending and can thereby control inflation.\\"<br />Page 33: \\"Every commodity has a price; the interest rate is the price of money. As with any commodity, the price fluctuates according the the laws of supply and demand.\\"<br />Page 165: \\"Mutual funds are popular with individual investors because they permit diversification in a wide variety of securities with a very small capital outlay.\\"<br />These are examples of the points covered, and the level at which they are covered. If the above quotes sounded obvious, this book may be below your expertise. But if you finally want to understand the jargon you hear on CNNfn, this book will do the job.<br />This would be a great book to buy as a graduation gift for a high school senior, or anyone without a background in finance.	2003-02-06
US	50932580	R224QDC3IP6BPS	0871137836	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great story, but something missing	Bowden tells an amazing story, no doubt about it.  His story of the rise and fall of the Escobar cocaine cartel is a fascinating narrative with stories of murder and terror that seem larger than life.  With Killing Pablo, Bowden takes the reader into the a world of drug lords, CIA agents, and a Columbian police force and government that seemed wrapped around Pablo's finger.  All the elements are there for a great book, and Bowden, in his usual style, delivers a well written compelling story.<br />My one criticism is that Bowden barely gives the reader a larger perspective of his story other than \\"on the ground\\" accounts of the hunt for Escobar.  Bowden does not give the reader a perspective of Pablo's place in the drug industry, who his competition was, the impact his cocaine had on the streets of America, and whether his pursuit and death had any measurable benefit to anyone but the other cocaine cartels.  I always found that I wanted more information when I was reading this book.  It is also clear that Bowden did not have sources who were close to the internal dealings of the Escobar cartel, which is a noticable hole in the book.<br />Its a good book, fun to read, highly enlightening, but also limited in scope to the actuals events on the ground in taking down Pablo.  I think I was looking for something closer to the movie \\"Traffic\\" that looked at the drug trade and Escobar in a wider context.	2003-01-02
US	50932580	R2XME5CEGUNJRY	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	What is the true cost of your cheeseburger?	This is a fascinating book that \\"pulls back the curtain\\" of the fast food industry. Since finishing the book, it has been making the rounds with my co-workers, and I have scarcely seen it for the past six months.<br />I have never been a big fast food afficionado, but I now have another 200 reasons to continue avoiding it.<br />Apart from the \\"food\\" aspect of fast food, I think the real benefit of this book is explaning the human and societal costs of the industrialization of the food industry. Schlosser follows the burger from the cow to the counter, and it isn't pretty. The reason why they can sell hamburgers for $.99 is that workers are paid next to nothing, receive virtually no training or professional development, and receive no benefits. This book makes the reader think about the costs of our consumer based society that relies on workers assembling products (in this case, food) at low wages.<br />Overall this is a great book, but it receives demerits for unnecessary Republican vs. Democrat partisanship (Republicans were always the bad guys) that detracted from the larger point that the problems addressed were societal and beyond electoral politics.	2003-01-02
US	50932580	R3KTTL6V7KTHI5	0151004749	297423476	When I Was a Young Man: A Memoir by Bob Kerrey	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Interesting story, but not enough meat	I really enjoyed reading this book. It was a quick, light read, and, as a Californian, it was my first introduction to Kerrey.<br />As the title implies, it is only the story of Kerrey's life as a young man. The story ends when he is discharged from the hospital after being injured in the Vietnam war. Kerrey's life, his perspectives on the war, his actions as a soldier, and his view of America are all interesting.<br />However, this is a book is a summary of his life events and travels on a very wide and well trodden road when it comes to expressing his thoughts and opinions. He breaks little new ground.<br />He clearly did not wish to offend or challenge his readership.  If this was a 500 page book I would be more disappointed, but as short as it was, it was forgivable.  Throught it all, however, Kerry emerges as a person that I would like to get to know better.  I certainly hopes he writes a follow-up book, and decides to tell us what he REALLY thinks.  He has certainly lived a fascinating life.	2002-08-15
US	50932580	R2CE1IU2ZHMZSH	0345410610	37245129	Robert Kennedy and His Times	Books	5	9	11	N	N	One of the best	This book is fascinating, not only because of its priciple subject, but because Schlesinger brings to life the personalities and events surrounding RFK's life.  J. Edgar Hoover, Joe Macarthy, Martin Luther King, and the kings of organized crime all play prominantly, and the reader learns as much about the zeigeist of Kennedy's time as RFK himself.<br />This is one the best biographies and history books that I have read.  It is also long and detailed, and written from an intimate and personal perspective.  Schlesinger was a family friend of the Kennedy's and many of his observations about their family life are recorded.<br />This book is still considered the definative biography on Kennedy's life, and I highly recommend it.	2002-03-15
US	50932580	R2EC3IXPIKVRU3	1578564182	845471246	Long Journey Home: A Guide to Your Search for the Meaning of Life	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Decent, good and true.	This is a good book.  It's short, easy to read, and fairly well written.  It also contains true wisdom, not only from Os, but from the brilliant thinkers across historical and cultural spectrums.<br />The best thing to do is accept this book for what it is and not for what the author intended it to be.  Mr. Guiness sought to show how humanists, and those in western and eastern civilizations have approached the &quot;meaning of life.&quot;  Os is so overtly partial to Western thought, that he gives only cursory explanations on Eastern and humanist traditions.  Besides, it just over 200 pages, can you really plumb the depths of even a single thinker from any one of these traditions?<br />Instead, enjoy this book as a background work that you can use to direct further study.  This is philosophical book for your bedstand, that give pretty simple explanations for complex issues that mankind has grappled with since we gained constructive use of our frontal lobes.<br />However, despite this, I walked away with teachings and instruction that inspired, compelled and provoked me to live with a greater understanding of how I can give to others.	2002-02-06
US	50932580	R37C7A7IIZ7DB	0395707528	314920195	A Life in the Twentieth Century: Innocent Beginnings, 1917 - 1950	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Interesting book from an interesting man	Schlesinger writes a book of personal recollections that reads much like a grandfather relating his rich and rewarding life onto his next generation.  It is not a hard facts history book, and it will not be remembered as such (regardless of Dr. Kissenger's overly optimistic review on the dust jacket).<br /><br />There are high points and low points to this book. His experiences at Harvard, worn torn Europe, and the ideological battles between communists and liberals over control of the American left were fascinating.  However, we are also privy to every movie, play, book, and cocktail dinner that schlesinger ever attended.  It's interesting to gain this perspective, but it gets tedious.  This book could have used substantial editing.<br /><br />I'm a Schlesinger fan, but I skimmed through many pages.  Despite these shortcoming, Schlesinger still imparts his genious.	2001-07-11
US	50932580	R3E4ZKN2DDDOY4	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	0	1	N	N	It tolls for you	The complexity, depth and beauty of this book are immeasurable.  I have never read a more moving book.	2001-06-16
US	50932580	R1S0QRJ2UOY5PY	0375501991	904191321	The New Geography: How the Digital Revolution Is Reshaping the American Landscape	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Should have been a magazine article	When &quot;New Geography&quot; hit the stands, it made it for few weeks on the LA Times bestseller list, and Joel Kotkin made the rounds on the local public radio stations.  He is well spoken, and his interviews where engaging, but his book doesn't hold muster.  Don't get me wrong -  he has an interesting thesis, but it could have been well articulated in the length of an Atlantic Monthly sized magazine article.  Instead, he gives the reader filler, and rehashes what other contemporary authors have been saying about demographic trends, urban lifestyles, decaying midwestern cities, and internet workers. He also wrote this book at the crest of the internet bubble, and like most new computer technologies, it has became outdated a year's time since the bust.<br />Also, one final thought...<br />This book was written with the assumption that programers, netheads, and digital artists exist in sufficient numbers to change which cities in America live and die.  It's as if this country were populated by David Brooks and his &quot;laptop at Starbucks so they can sip their lattes hot 'Bobo's.'&quot;  Has Kotkin ever been to Palmdale??<br />Skim this book, but don't forget to pick out the thesis.  It says that cities, towns, and suburbs that make themselves livable by yuppie standards will flourish in this new internet driven economy whose companies and workers can live and work where they want because new technology allows them to be geographically unconstrained by &quot;old&quot; economy resources like shipping ports, raw materials, etc.	2001-06-14
US	50932580	R9NU3TV1J3UTG	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	4	0	0	N	N	African Holocaust and the International Community	This is a tragic book, that leaves the reader with the impression that humanity is still a far cry from its ideals.  Rwanda is a country familiar with bloodshed, whose people followed their leaders in killing their countrymen.  Doctors killed their patients and fellow doctors, teachers massacred their students, priests murdered their congregants, and neighbor rose up against neighbor.  There was no rationality or reason given for these killings, and there was no power struggle or past wrong being avenged.  It was murder only for the sake of elimation of another human.  No higher justification (not that there ever could be a rational justification) was needed.<br />There was only chaos and bloodshed - and the international community did nothing to stop it.  When they did intervene, they were incompetent, and spent most of their time and money aiding the aggressors and not the victims.  President Clinton did all he could to keep American troops out of Rwanda, and the French, who colonized Rwanda, and should have felt some responsibility for the country, did little until it was too late.<br />This is a story of tribal brutality, and international indifference.  This book does not stray far beyond those themes.  Read this book and you will understand the Hobbesian rational.	2001-04-06
US	50932580	R24976XKVOI5RQ	1565792815	675079362	California: Land and Legacy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful Book	This is a coffee table book full of photographs of California's diverse and varied climates and regions.  The theme of the book is California's land, and the relationship Californian's have had with the bounty of their state. The book begins with an introduction by State Historian Kevin Starr and a pictoral history of each region of California.  The book can be appreciated for its beautiful photographs and its engaging text.  One can understand, after reading this book, the emotions that the beauty of California provoked in naturalists like John Muir and others.	2001-03-14
US	50932580	R2W27NUA5HF4G	0898864194	375865926	California State Parks: A Complete Recreation Guide (State Parks Series)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Helpful Guide to Discovering California	Great book that should be brought on all California road trips.  There are good descriptions of each park, directions, contact information, and activities available at the park.  These activities are mostly short hikes, or bike trips around the park.  California is a beautiful and vast state with a diversity of environments to explore.  There are parks throughout to state that allow the active explorer access to the state's beauty.  This book is a helpful guide in that exploration.	2001-03-05
US	50932580	R2W90YVZ5SC4X6	0942568281	827435103	Hiking Trails of the Santa Monica Mountains	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Very Helpful Guide	I've been hiking in the Santa Monica Mountains for most of my life, and found this guide helpful in finding many trails and trailheads that I never knew existed.  This book is a great starting point in planning hikes, but the trail maps are too cruely drawn and vague to warrant taking it on the trail. Never the less, after reading the description of the trail, and familiarizing yourself with the map, you should be safe.  Most of the hikes are pretty tame.<br />The back of the book is a detailed guide to the Backbone Trail, which is a treasure to Los Angeles County.  Get the most out of the Santa Monica Mountains and buy this guide.	2001-02-13
US	50932580	R3GM7S03ZNQH6O	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Odd and Agreeable	Most of my reading time is consummed in the world of non-fiction, but I picked this book up on advice of a friend, and found it to be most enjoyable.  A reading group or a college instructor would have been helpful to ellucidate upon the symbols in this novella, but I believe it fits well with other books, works of art, and ballets produced during this time that grapple with the modern world, and its dehumanizing qualities.<br />Indeed, the discomfort of Gregor's transformation seems indicative of the discomfort felt when the human heart is wedged into a world of machines, numbers, and efficiency standards.  However, apart from this symbolism, I most enjoyed the lucidity of Kafka's prose and the structure and design of his story.  Metamorphosis is the perfect form of a short story.	2001-02-07
US	50932580	RH2Y4SCQE2MVU	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The History of Water is the History of the West	The history of water is the underground history of the American West.  How humans corralled the water of our great rivers and turned western deserts into the worlds largest cities and most productive farmland, is a fundamental aspect of America's history that we take for granted today, but will be studied with much interest in a thousands years.  Future historians will use our dams as a window in understanding our long lost civilization.<br />The history of dams, and how we justified them, could be a case study on the American culture and civilization for better or for worse.  If all this sounds a little preposterous, then you haven't read Cadillac Desert.<br />Reisner writes a highly detailed (and a little too dense for my taste) tome about the history of water management in the American West.  It definately won't make Oprah's Book Club, but you will come to understand why the West (and hence, America) looks the way it does.<br />Reisner tells a great story with flare and leaves no politician unscathed.  His accusations are acidic, but his passion about the loss of our rivers is compelling.  There is so much in this book that you can't record in a single review.  Pick it up, you'll enjoy it.	2000-12-12
US	50932580	R3SU3WYEIP22I2	0140265473	219042777	Vietnam: A History	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Exceptional History of the war	I was born the year the last American soldier left Vietnam, and I have grown up under the pall that the Vietnam War continues to cast over this nation.  The regret and confusion in my parents generation continues in the nation's subconscious, blackening our memories and passing its scars on to the next generation.<br />I read this book after a visit to the Vietnam Memorial in Washington D.C. in order to understand the passion and emotion that sit deep in our nation's heart.  I was not disappointed.<br />Karnow not only provides a supurb history of Vietnam and its most recently fought war, but also speaks of the intensity of emotion that seared this war into the national consiousness.  Karnow provides a textbook understanding of the war with the objectivity of a reporter who followed the events in Vietnam since its French occupation just after World War II.<br />The strength of Karnow's book is that he places the Vietnam War in context of the history of Vietnam.  This historical knowledge is essential in understanding America's experience and the many miscalculations made during the conflict.  Karnow's book will be read by many generations of people who want to understand this defining moment in American history.	2000-12-09
US	50932580	R1FM7WSDBJ5BG1	0520212711	305143335	1500 California Place Names: Their Origin and Meaning, A Revised version of 1000 California Place Names by Erwin G. Gudde, Third edition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun Book for California Buffs	This book is not for the serious researcher, but is tremendously interesting for those curious about the sometimes zany history of California's place names.  Most entries include an interesting tangle of history and culture and the usual mispronunciation of Native American names by early white settlers.  Its a fun book that would make a great stocking stuffer and should brought along on any California road trip. Two thumbs on this one.	2000-09-24
US	50932580	R1076Q4QFKPFSF	1885959117	777554664	Robert F. Kennedy: In His Own Words	Books	5	11	11	N	N	EXCELLENT!!	This is a single CD approximately 50 minutes long that provides highlights  of some of RFK's best, and most memorable speeches.  There are 12 tracks  including RFK's speech at the democratic national convention in 1964 and  his speech announcing the assasination of Martin Luther King.<br />This is an  excellent introduction to the RFK's political beliefs, and reminds the  listener why he continues to captivate the nation's hopes.  The CD jacket  provides a brief historical background to each of the speeches and is  helpful for those with less knowledge of the current events of that time.  I would also recommend a compilation of speech excerpts put together by his  son Maxwell Kennedy entitled &quot;To Make Gentle the Life of this  World.&quot;  Neither source provides the complete text of his speeches,  but they distill the essence of what he offered America in his time.	2000-09-17
US	50932580	R101MN3F2O8P9N	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Deeper Look Shows More	The first time through this book I was left with a disappointment at  Morris's use of a fictional character as a narrative device.  However,  after completing, and then going back over passages of this book, I have  discovered the underlying truth that Morris was trying to say about Reagan.  Here is a man who loved his country and selflessly served its interests  without the vanity and lust for legacy that so often taints the actions of  our national leaders.<br />Morris writes this book honestly, without any  attempt to write to the audience (i.e. Reagan lovers like myself).  Instead, he reports Reagan's life and actions as he witnessed him, away  from the scripts, camaras, and speech writors.  We knew Reagan as he  communicated to us on television and the nightly news. There was more to  this man, and Morris brings it out as honestly as he saw it.<br />The richness  of this mans heart is not lost in Morris's biography, but we are also shown  the realities of his mental frailty later in life; his disgust for policy  details; his rush to judgement; and, finally his sometimes lack of  understanding about key foreign events. Reagan made some mistakes, as you  and I and every other human would also have.  Morris does not exploit these  misjudgments to mock Reagan as others have done, instead, he tells the  story of a man who loved his country, unshakably stood for principle, and  led this America in such a way that the American people loved him like no  other President in this century, save perhaps FDR.  Morris writes this  book with an almost burdensome love for Reagan.  Not blind love, or not a  devotion that borders on propaganda, but a love that one would show towards  their grandfather, a love that also sees the strengths and weaknesses.  This love is palpable, especially in his closing chapters. Yes, Morris, at  times lashes out at Reagan, criticizes Reagan and questions his  intelligence, but these criticisms are balanced.<br />The author is close to  the subject - he doesn't allow the reader to forget him (to the criticisms  of many), but in this closeness emerges a dialogue that touches Reagan and  offers to the reader a man who many scarcly knew, but loved.<br />I found it  hard to get passed the fictional character at first, but save this one  failed literary device, Morris wrote a masterpiece.he subject - he doesn't allow the reader to forget him (to the criticisms  of many), but in this closeness emerges a dialogue that touches Reagan and  offers to the reader a man who many scarcly knew, but loved.<br />I found it  hard to get passed the fictional character at first, but save this one  failed literary device, Morris wrote a masterpiece.	2000-09-12
US	50932580	R14OKP3NH6NSCZ	0520218981	876929784	Paradise Lost: California's Experience, America's Future	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A Textbook for California Politics	This book, written by Sacramento Bee columnist Peter Schrag, ends with the  ascension of Gray Davis to the governorship of the state in 1998 and  details the history of much of California's current political and social  geography starting with the Progressive Era at the turn of the 20th Century  to the Wilson Administration and the infamouse Proposition 187.<br />Schrag  provides a cursory examination of California history leading up to WWII  (Progressive Era excluded), but really gets going at the post World War II  suburbanization of the state as ranch homes began plowing under the  farmland in the San Fernando and San Gabriel Valleys of Southern California  (according to Schrag, California gained 1,500 new residents a DAY in 1962).<br />This WWII boom, according to Schrag, lasted until the 1970's and came  to a final end in 1978 with the passage of the notorious, and much  maligned, Proposition 13.  Up until this time, in a chapter titled  &quot;Golden Moment,&quot; California enjoyed the highest standard of  living in the nation, with the best schools, smoothest highways, and  affordable housing in comfortable suburban settings.<br />However, as the  honeymoon came to an end, these same suburbanites woke up and found  themselves faced with high property taxes and the burden of funding the  social programs of an increasingly liberal federal and state government.  What emerged was a genuine anti-government tax revolt that shook the halls  of Sacramento as these suburbanites revolted and slashed property taxes and  basically bankrupted local governments.  The passage of Proposition 13 was  a watershed event in California's history and is the portal from one era to  another.<br />This slash in government revenue, and the subsequent retreat  from the civic sphere, left California denuded and its government and  public infrastructure in shambles.  Schrag describes how school districts,  highways and the environment suffered under the regimes of the Governors  that these suburbanites sent to Sacramento (Deukmajian and Wilson), and how  the California dream that greeted these newcomers in the heady days after  WWII is about as real as the gold fields of El Dorado.<br />He devotes an  entire chapter to Prop. 13 then the rest of the book to the decline of  California.  According to Schrag, who continuously writes his Sacramento  Bee columns from a slanted liberal viewpoint, this decline is based, not on  governments own inefficiency, but in its inability to spend more of its  inhabitants money.<br />To his credit, this viewpoint is partially true.  Prop. 13 effectively killed the discretionary spending powers of the state  and local governents, and California is still trying to cope (recover is  not the operative word because there is no cure to Prop. 13 in the near  future) with the changes.  Because it tilted the tax formulas in favor of  sales tax, California has seens its beatiful countryside gobbled up by  strip malls and big box retailers.<br />I encourage all Californians, and  others interested in the destructive power of ballot initiatives, to read  this book.  If you are a liberal, you'll love it, if you are a conservative  you'll need to grit your teeth and read this informative and thought  provoking book.  If you just want to learn more about California, then pick  this book up.  It provides the reader with a detailed and informative  primer on why California looks and operates the way it does.that these suburbanites sent to Sacramento (Deukmajian and Wilson), and how  the California dream that greeted these newcomers in the heady days after  WWII is about as real as the gold fields of El Dorado.  <br />He devotes an  entire chapter to Prop. 13 then the rest of the book to the decline of  California.  According to Schrag, who continuously writes his Sacramento  Bee columns from a slanted liberal viewpoint, this decline is based, not on  governments own inefficiency, but in its inability to spend more of its  inhabitants money.  <br />To his credit, this viewpoint is partially true.   Prop. 13 effectively killed the discretionary spending powers of the state  and local governents, and California is still trying to cope (recover is  not the operative word because there is no cure to Prop. 13 in the near  future) with the changes.  Because it tilted the tax formulas in favor of  sales tax, California has seens its beatiful countryside gobbled up by  strip malls and big box retailers.  <br />I encourage all Californians, and  others interested in the destructive power of ballot initiatives, to read  this book.  If you are a liberal, you'll love it, if you are a conservative  you'll need to grit your teeth and read this informative and thought  provoking book.  If you just want to learn more about California, then pick  this book up.  It provides the reader with a detailed and informative  primer on why California looks and operates the way it does.	2000-09-06
US	50932580	RP6HNGFGQ1GV2	0762703016	676912941	Recommended Country Inns West Coast, 7th (Recommended Country Inns Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Leave the Concrete Box Hotels Forever	I purchased this book to help me find a place to honeymoon that was cozy, not over-run by tourists.  I wanted a honeymoon site that offered an authentic experience, not one marketed or comercialized.  I knew there had  to be out of the way places that would allow genuine exploration and  discovery in which the traveler was not just another number being shuttled  around to the same places to spend money with everyone else.  I ended up  finding a beautiful bed and breakfast on the Olympic Peninsula in  Washington State.  Built in the late 1800's this inn featured a small  detached bungalow on the bluffs overlooking the harbor.  There is no way I  would have found this place without the guide.<br />I am realizing the  benefit of &quot;place.&quot;  The world is full of ugly concrete box  hotels that all look and feel the same.  Why not chance it a little and  explore a small county inn off a small country road surrounded by woods and  coastline?  Yes, there may be a little discomfort in the lack of anonimity,  but why settle for the generic?<br />For those who live on the west coast, or  want to visit, this guide has hundreds of listings of places to stay.  The  author has personally visited each of them (tough job), and offers  insightful recommendations.  The guide thoroughly covers a broad range of  geography and has something from everyone from 19th century hotels to small  cabins in California's Gold Rush Country.  Most of these inns are owned by  families who live on the site, so you know you are supporting local  economies and not some corporate interest 1,000 miles away.<br />Read this and  then get out there and explore.	2000-07-21
US	50932580	R3LE7BYEBFWI9H	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	5	402	413	N	Y	Can You Handle the Truth?	Putnam's commentary on modern American life is frightening at best.<br />I read Putnam's article by the same title in college and it left a lasting imprint because it crystalized my feeling that Americans are no longer  involving themselves in civic and community life.  His new book expounds on  this depressing thesis and explains, in tremendous detail how Americans no  longer value civic engagement or regard relationships with neighbors as  worthwhile.  He cites declines in participation in public clubs such as the  Shriners and Elks clubs as well as more informal social gatherings like  poker playing and family dinners.  Using statistics and time diaries he  plots indicators of civic engagement from its peak in the early 1960's and  its subsequent decline thereafter.  The greatest casualty throughout this  transformation is in social capital, a term which predates Putnam and  describes the emotional and practical benefits of personal  relationship.<br />Putnam shows that civic clubs that have shown growth in  membership since the 1960's have mostly been in massive national  organizations whose membership is nothing more than people on mailing lists  who pay an annual fee.  Furthermore, religious organizations, whose members  participate in their communities at greater rates than non church goers,  are beginning to change their focus from civic participation to only  tending to the needs of their church members.<br />The affects of this  disengagement have impacted our health, democracy and safety.  Putnams  points out an axiomatic principle that as people associate with one another  in various capacities, whether it be at the kitchen table, the sidewalk,  the card club or the PTA, people form relationships that provide a pool of  friends who can be relied upon when time are hard, the dog needs to be  walked, or the poor elderly woman next door needs her home painted.  Each  relationship is an asset, the accumulation of which can be called one's  &quot;social capital.&quot;<br />Putnam does not place the blame for this on  one source, but cites  the entrance of women into the workforce, high  levels of divorce, and urban sprawl among others as possible contributors.  His most damning remarks are reserved for television.  According to Putnam,  no single technology has had such a damaging effect on America's civic and  personal relationships.  I enjoyed his attack on TV on a personal level  because I decided 5 years ago to throw away my television and have never  looked back.<br />Certainly, Putnam's concerns are not new.  He admits to this  and provides the reader with an excellent look at the Progressive Era  when  American's decided to solve the vexing problems of an industialized urban  society by forming civic clubs and actively involving themselves in their  community.<br />This is not a particularly fun book to read.  In summary, it  details how Americans have become spectators on life.  The recent success  of &quot;reality based&quot; television programs only illustrates how we  have traded the potential richness of personal relationships for a false  reality on our television screens.  Life is about personal relationships,  and it is sad to see how Americans have avoided these  relationships.<br />Putnam is not all gloom and doom.  As with everything,  hope abounds.  After reading this book, one should only be encouraged to  find ways to involve himself or herself in their communities and invite the  neighbors over for a BBQ.  This is an important social commentary, and I  encourage all to read it.pital.&quot;<br />Putnam does not place the blame for this on  one source, but cites  the entrance of women into the workforce, high  levels of divorce, and urban sprawl among others as possible contributors.   His most damning remarks are reserved for television.  According to Putnam,  no single technology has had such a damaging effect on America's civic and  personal relationships.  I enjoyed his attack on TV on a personal level  because I decided 5 years ago to throw away my television and have never  looked back.<br />Certainly, Putnam's concerns are not new.  He admits to this  and provides the reader with an excellent look at the Progressive Era  when  American's decided to solve the vexing problems of an industialized urban  society by forming civic clubs and actively involving themselves in their  community.  <br />This is not a particularly fun book to read.  In summary, it  details how Americans have become spectators on life.  The recent success  of &quot;reality based&quot; television programs only illustrates how we  have traded the potential richness of personal relationships for a false  reality on our television screens.  Life is about personal relationships,  and it is sad to see how Americans have avoided these  relationships.<br />Putnam is not all gloom and doom.  As with everything,  hope abounds.  After reading this book, one should only be encouraged to  find ways to involve himself or herself in their communities and invite the  neighbors over for a BBQ.  This is an important social commentary, and I  encourage all to read it.	2000-07-20
US	50932580	R3TMAGAGUFZVVK	0151004641	517454879	Democracy Derailed: The Initiative Movement and the Power of Money	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Good Book, but Common Knowledge for Most	Being a Californian, and one who works for a State Senator, I was interested to see what an outsider would have to say about our Great State.  After chuckling about what some in the national media have said about  California politics, I was surprised to see that Broder did a decent job in  summarizing the recent proposition campaign in 1998.<br />His book is a case  study that follows the money, and the advertising campaign tactics meant to  trick and deceive voters.  Unfortunately, this tale is all too common in  Californian's high priced television driven political process.  Broder  could have chosen any major proposition ballot initiative in this state and  produced similar results.<br />However, because Broder's case study and  thesis is such a common occurrence in California, anyone with just a meager  understanding of politics would have found the conclusion of this book  axiomatic.  Of course, this speaks to the well researched and truthful  nature of the book, but I picked it up looking for special insight into the  political process from a veteran reporter.  Unfortunately, Broder's book  shines no more light on the problem of money and the lack of checks and  balances in proposition campaigns than already exists.<br />I don't want to  sound like a snob, and in all honesty, I would recommend this book as a  primer in California's proposition campaigns, but it only provided a basic  understanding and little more.<br />A clear problem exists, and Broder does a  good service in pointing it out so eloquently.	2000-07-07
US	50932580	R1TQW7ZHIZJKFE	0385482515	683164590	Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus (Hinges of History)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Interesting Historical Prelude to Christ	The strength of this book lies in the historical lead up to the birth of Christ.  Not being well versed in that time period, I appreciated the portrait Cahill draws of the changes in empires and the tugs of secularism  on the Jews.  He did well in putting the birth of Christ in a historacle  context.<br /><br />However, after the event of Christ's birth, Cahill devolves  into his own interpretation of the gospels and interjects his own liberal  understanding of the trinity, the divinity of Christ and the apocalypse,  among others.  What began as an interesting historacle portrait quickly  became a detailed study in the language and wording of the gospels.  These  studies are justifiably important, but Cahill is ill equipted for this type  of biblical interpretation.<br /><br />His historacle study in interesting and  informative, but his book changes halfway through and Cahill departs from  his strengths and employs questionable interpretations to material that  speaks to the core of Christian beliefs.<br /><br />There are other books that the  reader can reference for a better understanding of the subject matter that  Cahill tries to tackle.	2000-07-06
US	50932580	R2MD4A7M6HBFTU	1559636823	618761936	Green Urbanism: Learning From European Cities	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Ample introduction on how to make cities &quot;Green&quot;	Beatley shows there is much to learn from the Europeans when it come to the ecological and environmental city planning.  Although it would be hard to implement European planning practices on American soil, it brings a new, and beneficial perspective that many can use towards an incremental change.	2000-06-13
US	50932580	R26YLNAQS61Y42	0393318540	285805115	The Disuniting of America: Reflections on a Multicultural Society (Revised and Enlarged Edition)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Eminently Important for Our Time	I read this book twice just it mine out every once of gold it contained.  The author debunks much of the hyper-multicultural political correctness that plagued our universities for much of the early 1990's (It has since  subsided since its initial outbreak, but remains a constant problem), but  makes his point without sounding reactionary or afraid of change.  Instead,  he assiduously disseminates the separtist anti-American sentiments of  radical multiculturalism while reminding americans of the value of a  cultural pluralistic society that honors the traditions and cultures of our  ancestors while not forgetting the common bonds of Americanism that unite  us all.  To that point, he reminds the reader what Americanism truley is;  it is not a homogenenous white monoculture that looks and acts like a bad  1950's sitcom.  Rather, Americanism is expressed in the democratic values  that have allowed all groups to participate in civic life.<br />His book is  a seminal work, important for all, especially whites, such as myself, whose  culture has defined the dominant culture in America for 200 years.  Change  and inclusion are good things. The road to a united America falls on both  the natives to accept newcomers and the newcomers to accept the democratic  American principles and not form antagonistic enclaves separate from the  whole.	2000-06-13
US	50932580	R3CPDHSKICCQSW	0865475571	690664705	Suburban Nation: The Rise of Sprawl and the Decline of the American Dream	Books	4	32	37	N	Y	Good book with minor flaws	My comments regarding this book differ little from the other positive reviews it has been receiving by other readers.  It is important that Americans understand the social ramifications of how they develop.  The  architecture of our homes and communities reflects the our values and how  we view ourselves relative to our community.  Recent trends in home and  neighborhood development reveal a highly individualistic value system that  excludes it participation in the larger community and neighborhood.  As  mentioned in the book, Americans do a great job in making the inside of  homes extremely livable, but do a poor job in integrating that home, and  the family living in that home, with the neighborhood.  Homes are built as  insulators from other people.  A community of insulated homes and isolated  people is best described in the terms the authors use for modern suburban  development.<br />My only complaint with this book is that it carries an  underlying hint of elitism and makes the fatal mistake of assuming poorly  planned development can be blamed for all nagging social ills.  True, our  social values determine how we build and develop, and isolated designs can  induce negative social outcomes, but these experts focus too closely on  their own field of expertise and lose sight of the larger picture.  For  example, perhaps TV watching has a large part in explaining Americas  decline in it sense of community.<br />This book will be a source of  information on how prudent and farsighted development can be acheived, but  readers should be aware of the attitude these writors bring with this  important work.	2000-06-08
US	50932580	R2NMEVVVGZFZU7	0403010330	705150668	Annie Kilburn	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a glimpse into victorian america	I discovered this book at my local Sacramento library.  I enjoyed the plot and the relaxed pace of the book.  The character of the minister is in close parrallel with Reverend Casey in the Grapes of Wrath.  Annie kilburn  and Grapes of Wrath would be interesting books to read together in a study  of how biblical allegory and communist thought are sometimes woven  together.  Apart from this aspect, i found the book to be a helpful glance  back to the lost era of victorian america and the social realities of life  during that time. A great read and powerful book in its own right.	1999-12-10
US	50932580	R3J2ORQO4M31JF	0151003564	168158483	Make Gentle the Life of This World: The Vision of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Kennedy's words and quotations are still relevant to 1999.	By reading the excerpts from his speeches and thoughtful quotations, one can come to an understanding of the complexity and intellectual depth of this American politician.  Had it not been for his assasination after  winning the California Democratic Primary in 1968, RFK would probably have  become president instead of Nixon.  Indeed his views on America, how  Americans interact and view each other and his belief in the endurance of  the human heart are profoundly insightful and give hope to a new generation  of Americans concerned with these same issues.  Amazingly, over 30 years  after these words were spoken, the problems of racism, environmental  degredation, lack of community and his hopes for the future still need to  be heard.  The wisdom recorded in this book transcend party affiliation and  petty differences haggled over by the talking political heads seen nightly  on American television. From time to time I dip into this tome and read its  brief quotes of political wisdom and wonder what might have been had he  lived.  This book is RFK's eternal flame.	1999-04-30
