US	50934204	R25Q19HTF3K4JJ	0140157379	446962747	Haroun and the Sea of Stories	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Haroun, a book to read to my children... someday	Aaaah... Rushdie, a man of such wit and controversy. And I know nothing of it (yet), save for his gift for whisking me back to the warmth of simple tales when the world was just picture books and rhymes. Haroun, Rashid, and their Ocean of Notions kept a smile on my face the whole way through. There are two ways to read this book. First as a child, appreciate it for being a lush and engrossing tale. As an adult, you can draw some heady musings on authoritarian rule and freedom of creativity and learn the context in which Rushdie wrote this book. The bad guy is a sniveling, talentless bureaucrat? Brilliant! Now I gotta crack those Satanic Verses...	2005-07-01
US	50934204	R2IUARHHTAOUJ9	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Fantastic!	All those long dark years without an icy Song from Mr. George R.R. Martin, when all were bereft of a real storyteller to fight the cold winters away, Ms. Hobb and the Six Duchies had been there all along. Some may argue her story has uncanny resemblance to A Game of Thrones (what with the young bastard and \\"Beast magic\\") or that it is too formulaic. The latter can be said of any fantasy tale. And the former, really, how can being compared to the best modern fantasy author be anything but a complement? <br /> <br />What sets Hobb apart is that she takes the basic elements of fantasy (bastards, kings, zombies) and makes it her own. She, like Martin, uses magic sparingly - and her magic is more akin to ESP (i.e. \\"the force\\") than it is to Merlin. The \\"Assassin's Apprentice\\" begins as a vivid retelling of the life of Fitz, the bastard son of the King-in-waiting. From the first few pages, the reader is enthralled by the vivid details of the toddler's arrival at the gates of Buckkeep. The writing is poetic, the imagery is tangible, and the characters are believable -- sometimes to the point of frustration. Because the telling is mostly of an adolescent, the protagonist can be annoyingly mature. That is however, how most teens are. Compound that with not having a real name his whole life and well... who wouldn't be somewhat ticked being called \\"Boy\\" for 15 years? The pacing is slow, but Hobb crafts such an intriguing reality that it's difficult  to put the book down lest some plot twist be waiting the next page. <br /> <br />Of course, some plots involving Prince Regal are unbelievable. If Martin were wrote about him, his head would be on a pike midway through. But Hobb is not Martin. Hobb is like the sweet gentle underbelly of fantasy where even stable boys refer to women as ladies and queens are respected leaders. In Martin's world, women are oft the object of mutilation and/or rape. Anyway... it's all a matter of taste. <br /> <br />I'd like to make two last points: <br/>To the reviewers that believe Hobb's writing is awful and too \\"simple\\", here is an observation. Most fantasy writers are awful. This is not a genre known for great literary depth. To compensate for this, most fantasy writing thrives on descriptive run-on sentences.  Hobb knows not to do this. A good idea need not be conveyed in 50-word run on sentences. Secondly, anyone who complains that her naming royalty by their qualities, as in \\"Prince Chivalry\\" and \\"Prince Regal\\" must've missed the 14 dozen or so references to why. So before any other potential readers are thrown off by this initially silly or \\"lazy\\" way of creating characters, here is an explanation - again. The old inhabitants of the Six Duchies believed that if they named their children after certain habits, they would grow up and be infused with the greatest quality in which they are named. End of story. There are quite a few real societies where people are named after such qualities. So, this in fact, is quite an intelligent exposition of the sociological complex of living up to not only one's title but \\"living up to one's name\\". <br /> <br />I give it an A-! (room for improvement)	2005-05-18
US	50934204	R1X3KNOY5TOAI3	0060589280	571626403	Eleven Minutes: A Novel (P.S.)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It is what it is - a fairytale	For years The Alchemist has been gathering dust on my bookshelf, and on a whim one day I decided to buy and immediately read Eleven Minutes. First, off, it is difficult to give a fully informed opinion of Coehlo's writing style. The translation and editing was deplorable. I found too many grammatical mistakes and literal translations to count. Therefore, I couldn't determine if the tone of the novel was truly the author's or an error in translation. Whatever the case, this review is based on the English translation by Margaret Jull Costa.  <br /> <br />Eleven minutes is yet another modern day fairytale smothered over a thin slice of preachy philosophy. Honestly, two transcendental orgasmically instigated enlightening moments are annoying (the first physical, the second spiritual). The day to day renderings of Maria's life were convincing enough that I almost felt like most of the book was ghostwritten by the real \\"Maria\\". It is in effect, a fairytale. As all fairytales are, they are simple. Barely is there a lesson. Maria goes on a journey, meets various characters (the librarian, the artist, the sado masochistic John) and throughtout the journey she morphs from pariah and prostitute to sacred mother and wife (in spirit). The few accounts of sexual liasons are not in the least bit shocking, even if they were intended to be. They just were, what they were... eleven minutes of sex. Its a lovely story, if you can get beyond the author's protracted philosophical ramblings.	2005-04-28
US	50934204	R1UFQ46IO4K9VX	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	3	14	24	N	N	A celebration of the mundane	Ok... wait just a sec. Hold your horses! Before you start clickng away on the \\"not helpful\\" button, take just a second and try to take heed of opposing counsel: Melissa Banks - I don't get you. Seriously I don't. Though I'm no avid Lifetime watcher, I swear, have I not seen these coming of age episodes before? Boyfriend brings older girlfriend home: Interject some clippy dialogue. Slap in one good line of prose for the chapter. Forward ten years later: protoganist describes mundane relationship with older man. Interject some clippy dialogue. Slap in one good line of prose for the chapter. You know where I'm going with this. With all the praise for this book I was expecting an awe-inspiring voice, moving plot(s), a lovable character that I can look at and say - that is me.  Bridget Jones this is not. No, its not witty and is about as funny as a CNN trading report. The only thing laughable about this book is that somehow its called \\"literary\\".    There is nothing spectactular about Jane's relationship woes. Even worse, Banks draws little complexity out of the already excruciatingly boring plots. This book gives you enough pause just to turn to the next page, but little to hold on to. Perhaps its because it -isn't- a book. It is a collection of short stories, which requires a different scale of understanding. Regardless, on any scale, Banks tips on the light and fluffy side.	2005-04-25
US	50934204	R1O6J1A1W3UV9D	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	As expected, nothing new	I am sure that I am not the only one that suspects that Card wrote Ender's Shadow to take one final squeeze out of the cash cow that is Ender's Game. How fitting the book is called Ender's Shadow, because it IS the same story, the same characters, only paler in comparison. Bean is an interesting character and perhaps Card should have expounded more on the other battle school kids earlier, but to retrofit the story this way is just plain unnecessary. It lacks the newness, uniqueness, and ultimately - the surprise ending of the original. Most of the book is rehashing the same events of EG, but with a seething, gnashing jealous, yet superior, Bean in the background. With the help of Sister Carlotta, he does redeem himself from being a soulless, arrogant Napoleonic runt, though not by much. What is next? We will find out that it was Petra - the real uber supremo genius, not Bean, not Ender - who won the war?<br />What is new: modern technology that justifies Bean's abnormal genius traits. There is one particular scene that some may find ludicrous involving Bean's miraculous feats of survival whilst in diapers. This first book is insubstantial, but I do recommended giving it a run anyway, as the rest of the series takes an arc that a lot of Ender fans were yearning for - the first couple of years post Battle School. The tale takes on mythic proportions as the young prodigies assume leadership of various nations and battle for control of Earth - against an arch nemesis named, quite suitably, &quot;Achilles&quot;. It is less sci-fi and more speculative political drama with a dose of Card's singular use of child heroes.	2004-05-14
US	50934204	R3C5F48VHBZYHB	0345459407	981903971	Perdido Street Station	Books	2	25	31	N	N	Putrid, festering, rotten fecal calamity	Perdido Street Station is a boiling, festering, rotten, dilapidated, steamy mess. No not the city - the book. As impressive as the New Crobozun and its citizens are, the plot is as palatable as the city itself. Yes, yes, this carnival of horrors boasts: a de-winged birdmen/poet, walking cacti living in a greenhouse village, Shelob on acid, a sentient cleaning-bot, and a bland scientist who releases a terrible moth like beast upon its queer alien inhabitants. Hmmm...all components of a dark fantasy indeed. I had gotten the impression that this was a dystopia. No such philosophical ramifications here. It's just another horror story. It lacks that overall \\"Oomph\\" to make it a purportedly standout modern classic. Characterization is flat. Plot is thin. Setting is overly ripe.<br />Isaac the un-redeeming, extraordinarily boring protagonist, receives a job not to be dismissed. Yagharek, the de-winged birdman, wishes to fly again. So Isaac buries himself in his studies and the book grudgingly goes through pages upon pages of pseudo-science describing the creation of this crisis engine. The science is utterly and ridiculously implausible. Yet, all this buildup is, in the end, superfluous. The female Kephri, whose beginning was promising: a progressive thinking free-love bug freak, is turned into a pathetic damsel in distress. The author took little advantage of the complexity of Grimnebuilin who, beyond a couple prefixed soliloquies in each chapter, is only a supporting member of this motley crew. <br />The author has a penchant for scattering the pages with a combination or rare & unusual vocabulary and an annoying lot of diphthongs (like Grimnebuilin), which gives the prose a baroque feel. But underneath the flowery language and queer environs lies a thin tale. The putrefying Metamorphosis sex with the bug headed girlfriend is just disturbing. Her story, involving a Mieville version of a yakuza drug lord gets scrapped midway through. Then Mieville picks up the minor subplot involving the sentient cleaning bot, mashes it together with the monster-butterfly chase and shoves the anorexic and anemic conclusion down your throat.<br />Perdido Street Station: Fashionable and forgettable like a goth & grunge movie. This book is more horror than fantasy. Perdido excels in strangeness. Hopefully there are other steampunk novels that, unlike the birdman, can take flight.	2004-05-12
US	50934204	R7LSEURWH4CTB	0060934719	26552478	Stardust	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fairytale for grownups	Tristan Thorn's journey across the Wall is a beautiful lyrical tale of a young boy who vows to win his love by retrieving a fallen star from across the Wall into the land of Fairie only to find that the journey itself is more important than the object of his affection. Many surprises await him including a dwarfish aide, a flying ship, witches, princes, and unicorns and of course, a damsel in distress. The side plot of the Lord of the Stormhold and Tristan's though initially unrelated, coincide in the manner only the best of fairytales can, by fate, destiny, and love. The ending is a mix of happiness, triumph, and melancholy. Curiousity peaked yet? Good. No other spoilers needed.<br />To say that \\"Stardust\\" is \\"an outline\\" or in some way incomplete is to miss the essence of a fairytale. Young hapless human + journey + magical realm + good + evil + happy ending = fairytale. Suffice to say, Neil Gaiman's scores on all accounts in creating a successful tale and adds a bit more complexity for the adult reader. Overall  the plot, characters, and world ARE simple. The themes, however, are not: The journey is more important than the goal, the goal one desires in youth is not the same in adulthood, after a life-changing journey, how can one return home, and so on and so forth.<br />(...). Furthermore, with only one minor scene, it seemed superflous. But don't let that detract you from reading. \\"Stardust\\" reads like an oral tale that has just been written down for the first time. It carries the history and weight of a classic. Give it a whirl!<br />A+	2004-05-10
US	50934204	R1K5AVGZZS1V4P	068816112X	761772754	Replay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gripping nightmare!	Time travel? I suppose... Romance? So the protaganist has sex on occasion - that doesn't qualify it as a Harlequin. What Replay is is a visceral, soul jarring metaphysical nightmare. Imagine waking up 25 yrs in the past realizing you just died seconds ago but 25 years in the future. Wash, rinse, repeat. Thats what you have with Ken Grimwood's Replay.<br />Jeff cycles through 25 years of his life, trapped in a loop of reliving his life from 1963 to 1988. In the first \\"replay\\", he gambles become a millionaire on the foreknowledge of his last life. Round 2, he buries himself in a hedonistic rebellion towards God. Later on he discovers another peculiar person with an uncanny foreknowledge and discovers that she too is a replayer. Jeff and Pam ask themselves - How else can I live my life this time? Round 5, they advertise their struggle to the world and become neo-Nostradamuses, predicting major events years in the future. After creating a financial empire, a blockbuster movie, writing a Pulitzer Prize winning novel, marrying and raising children - the slate is cleared only to be lived again.<br />Like a pendulum losing momentum, they discover that they wake up closer and closer to their deaths. Will they finally reach eternity? Were their replayed lives some skewed form of reincarnation?<br />The writing is nothing phenomenal and the characterization of the main characters is so-so. What makes this book a winner is the deftly written plot. Imagine having to write about not one lifetime, but several! I highly recommend it.	2002-10-03
US	50934204	R2GAYHGS2DD9WZ	0451458559	806612847	Shockball: A Stardoc Novel	Books	2	4	7	N	N	The weakest in the series	I admit, I am a fan of the Stardoc series. Its fast, its fun, its cheese, but its just good. So I breezed through the first three books within a weekend, but with this edition, I came to an abrupt crawl. Shockball has a very weak plot, with a few shocking secrets unveiled about Cherijo's past but that seems to be the brunt of it. Its not up to par with the usual pace in action & suspense in the previous books.<br />After Cherijo and Reever get hauled back to Earth they're soon rescued from Joseph's mad-laboratory by a group of Navajos.  Knowing how irate Cherijo gets about her only family being House Clan Torin she doesn't take the Navajo's claim as her blood kin amiably, even if she is nearly 100% Navajo herself. Well, her rescue comes with a price and the chief, Rico, takes her captive as medic for their Shockball team. Some are human hybrids who need to be fixed to look 100% human to legally play on the team. For most of the book she cures another mysterious plague. Reever gets in a few squabbles, gets enlisted in the Shockball team, and enjoys some machismo time as the suave new MVP. Rico has a queer fascination with her upbringing (quite obvious why but the brilliant Cherijo is clueless). There were no interesting new characters like Quilyp, Furreva, or Rogan. Some, like Rico's short secondhand man were mere brutes - but for no reason other than to point out how much Cherijo hates short men. Cherijo's new assistant - Hawk, a Quasimodo lookalike is very timid and quiet. In the first chapter, they visited a world of flying people so I wonder what \\"Hawk\\"'s condition is. Anyway... I lost a lot of respect for Cherijo's character in the way she views the Navajos. She frequently mocks their beliefs & traditions just like she did the Torins' attitude toward suicide and continues to carry a superiority complex about advanced society and medicine. On the other hand, I respect Viehl's characterization because it makes Cherijo that more real.<br />Shockball had nothing todo with the story. At the end the reason why she had to deal with the whole Shockball nonsense is so ludicrous and flimsy you'll feel like you just got hit by a shockball yourself! Nevertheless, I am anticipating the next edition and hope it will be just as good as Endurance. I recommend that you read it only to find out some few things about Cherijo's past, but the whole story in of itself, leaves much to be desired.	2002-01-29
US	50934204	R3SOR33BU7BFS0	0451458559	806612847	Shockball: A Stardoc Novel	Books	2	3	3	N	N	The weakest in the series	I admit, I am a fan of the Stardoc series. Its fast, its fun, its cheese, but its just good. So I breezed through the first three books within a weekend, but with this edition, I came to an abrupt crawl. Shockball has a very weak plot, with a few shocking secrets unveiled about Cherijo's past but that seems to be the brunt of it. Its not up to par with the usual pace in action & suspense in the previous books.<br />After Cherijo and Reever get hauled back to Earth they're soon rescued from Joseph's mad-laboratory by a group of Navajos.  Knowing how irate Cherijo gets about her only family being House Clan Torin she doesn't take the Navajo's claim as her blood kin amiably, even if she is nearly 100% Navajo herself. Well, her rescue comes with a price and the chief, Rico, takes her captive as medic for their Shockball team. Some are human hybrids who need to be fixed to look 100% human to legally play on the team. For most of the book she cures another mysterious plague. Reever gets in a few squabbles, gets enlisted in the Shockball team, and enjoys some machismo time as the suave new MVP. Rico has a queer fascination with her upbringing (quite obvious why but the brilliant Cherijo is clueless). There were no interesting new characters like Quilyp, Furreva, or Rogan. Some, like Rico's short secondhand man were mere brutes - but for no reason other than to point out how much Cherijo hates short men. Cherijo's new assistant - Hawk, a Quasimodo lookalike is very timid and quiet. In the first chapter, they visited a world of flying people so I wonder what \\"Hawk\\"'s condition is. Anyway... I lost a lot of respect for Cherijo's character in the way she views the Navajos. She frequently mocks their beliefs & traditions just like she did the Torins' attitude toward suicide and continues to carry a superiority complex about advanced society and medicine. On the other hand, I respect Viehl's characterization because it makes Cherijo that more real.<br />Shockball had nothing todo with the story. At the end the reason why she had to deal with the whole Shockball nonsense is so ludicrous and flimsy you'll feel like you just got hit by a shockball yourself! Nevertheless, I am anticipating the next edition and hope it will be just as good as Endurance. I recommend that you read it only to find out some few things about Cherijo's past, but the whole story in of itself, leaves much to be desired.	2002-01-29
US	50934204	RHPZ4465GMO70	0451457935	705704096	Beyond Varallan (Stardoc II)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	It is a sequel, reads like a sequel	I wouldn't say Beyond Varallan is any less entertaining than Stardoc. Its a good sequel packed full of comical moments, murder mysteries, new lovable characters, and the omnipresent Duncan Reever. And what book is ever boring when living on a starship with a warrior clan of 7 foot tall smurfs who have will swear Clan Kill in the blink of an eye? Granted, the murder mystery plot was weak. Instead of leading you to suspect everybody, nobody seemed to have the slightest motive to be going on a killing spree and the murder weapon had no scientific validity whatsoever but of course this book's strength is still in the fun characters.<br />Cherijo's new nemesis is Dr. Squilyp whom she unwillingly usurped to be Chief Medic of the Sunlace. Their wrangling leads to a hilarious challenge to a physical match. Kao Torin swears to be Cherijo's chosen to protect her from the murders AND from the suspecting crewmembers. Reever creeps around the ship seemingly in a jealous fit. Why these two are so drawn together, I don't know. Talk about intimacy problems. The mystery gets solved and the outcome, in my opinion was very surprising. Eventually the League catches up with the Sunlace and the book ends on a cliffhanger. As aggravating as it was, it worked - I went straight out to get Endurance, which by the way is the best of the series so far.<br />S.L. Viehl has churned out yet another entertaining romp, good detail on new characters, and the adventures of Cherijo Grey Veil, perfect human clone continues.	2002-01-29
US	50934204	R10JEUDVUIJ3VL	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pale jewel of thought	Its an allegory with a smidgen of sci-fi (\\"speculative\\" fiction), but Out of the Silent Planet is surprisingly a deftly written and enjoyable tale. Though it may be a Christian discourse, I found the themes of the \\"bentness\\" of human nature and the propensity for xenophobia to be more philosophical.<br />Some people may like to point out the implausibility of three intelligent co-existing species on one planet, or the flimsy science, but this book is so much more than mere cold hard science & logic, as was displayed through the character of Weston. The calculating physicist defends humanity's viral nature as only the result of the \\"survival of the fittest\\" and humans will take over Malacandra with our superior technology and war. Conversely, the Malacandrians take the \\"live and let die\\" attitude. They think the human fear of death, desire for limitless wealth, and abhorrence to monogamy to be pointless (hmm... must be Buddhists) which brings Ransom to the conclusion that perhaps we are the morally inferior species. That is why humans have come \\"out of the silent planet\\" as, unlike Malacandra, its moral ruler has fallen and has no voice in the heavens (space for the ahtiests, heh)<br />The diction was pretty smooth, not all the authoritarian British style I was expecting. The pace was suspenseful - easily done on a strange planet with unknown friends and terrors around ever corner. Out of the Silent Planet has suspense, a tightly woven plot, characters with real conflict - everything that makes a strong, compelling book. It only needs more! So, read the whole series.	2002-01-29
US	50934204	R26FP6Y6MIK1VG	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Where's the beef!?	Perhaps back in the 60s  Tolkien fans were ready to devour any new fantasy novel. To my dismay, \\"a high fantasy classic\\" this is not. It certainly is a good template for it: moral lessons, good vs. evil, wizened wizards, and a young wizard on a grand quest. But there's not much more than that. There's too much prose and not enough character insight to uphold the already threadbare plot. The most comprehensive description of Earthsea is in the maps which are nice and all, but this is a book - not an atlas.<br />Too short to be a real novel, it'd do better as a children's book. However, in this case size really doesn't matter. The Last Unicorn by Peter Beagle has the same template but unlike A Wizard of Earthsea, the unicorn's voyage is filled with peril through vivid lands accompanied by a colorful cast of characters in only 200 pages. Even today's current poptart, Harry Potter, has the bumbling Ron, quirky Dumbledore, and slimy Snape. LeGuin's wizards are all Arch-Changer this or Arch-Namer that - who seem ready to die at any moment. Rocks have more personality. The protaganist is Ged. Yep, Ged. Oh and he gets spiteful and thus must redeem himself. Thats all I know. Ogion tries but fails to be a Gandalf. The only moments of life shine through the dialogue and as soon as a glimpse of emotion appears... it vanishes.<br />In spite of these faults, it's not so terrible; There is a sense of history and timelessness to the tale. The moral lessons ring loud and true. \\"That which gives us power to work magic, sets the the limits of that power... it if were not so, the wickedness of the powerful or the folly of the wise would long ago have sought to change what cannot be changed, and Equilibrium would fail.\\" <br />Lines like that make reading this book worth hacking through the bone dry parts. After reading LeGuin's speculative work - The Left Hand of Darkness and the Dispossessed, I found her intelligent & thought provoking but uninspired. So I was prepared for a more personal work through her fantasy in A Wizard of Earthsea. Sad to say, I was yet again let down.	2002-01-24
US	50934204	R1JCT68MHE2HVX	0345331354	979388730	Cosmos	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Elegant and evocative introduction to the cosmos	If any layman should ever read a science book, it would have to be this one. Carl Sagan's brilliance and charming personality make the realm of astrophysics accessible and even exciting. There's such a poetic warmth to his view of universe that when he speaks of galaxies and supernovas, it reads like a fairytale. Rather than delve into messy and boring equations, he guides you through the logical thought processes from rudimentary observations to complete theories. Through his fluid prose, the grandeur and complexity of the cosmos seems almost simple to understand.<br />For a field that is deemed cold and inhuman, Sagan is a shining example that the pursuit of science can be driven by passion. Cosmos is not just about distant stars and nebula, but it envelops all fields of knowledge: art, philsophy, history, biology, physics and even religion to show how they are all interconnected. Sagan weaves between these fields to show that from the bleak uncaring coldness of the Cosmos, humanity arose whether for some purpose or not. The fact is, we exist and hold full responsiblity for our future, and perhaps the future of the Cosmos.	2002-01-24
US	50934204	RPJGNF6IK95OF	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Quirky fast-paced medical space opera	Stardoc is such a catchy story that once you get caught up in the plot, you can't let go. Dr. Cherijo Grey Veil has run away from her brilliant, domineering, xenophobic father from Terra to planet K2 to work in a free clinic. The story reads a bit awkwardly, being in first person, and for the first half of the book she keeps mentioning the \\"information she found about her father\\" but doesn't say exactly what that is even though we know she knows (and to not spoil this review, I won't mention what it is)! The book read more like a personal journal rather than a narrative. The rest of the story covers her adjustment to being on her own, meeting the rest of the galaxy, and solving the mysterious plague that wipes out thousands on K2.<br />The multitude of very alien aliens is ludicrous but entertaining in the same vein as Star Trek. At least S.L. Viehl one ups Star Trek by adding more than brow ridges. Even if they're 10 foot tall spiders or as small as snails, they all have human personalities. In addition, she somehow figures out how to operate on various species without any prior training whatsoever! Suuuure... We're supposing that all life is so similar that once you one species, you know them all. When she delves into describing the surgical procedures and medical gabbledygook, I just skip to the next paragraph. This is science fiction, so its okay to to suspend disbelief and take a leap of imagination, as the strength of the book lies in the engaging plot.<br />Cherijo is stubborn and relentlessly committed to her work (like most doctors), even after the first day of meeting the grim-faced Dr.Mayer and her antagonist the smelly half-human Dr. Rogan. There is a romantic element to the story, as Cherijo finds her self life-bonded with a blue-skinned studly warrior, but I would not consider this a romance. The most interesting character is the creepy telepathic linquist Duncan Reever, raised by aliens, is the most unhuman of all. This series looks like it'll be a blend of - Bujold's Miles Universe, ER, and Star Trek. <br />This lighthearted jaunt is no literary work, but its not meant to be! Its fast and fun with lots of action and you'll enjoy the quirky characters.	2002-01-22
US	50934204	RE2OXOHO7TPA4	0821220381	869772148	The Box of Stars: A Practical Guide to the Night Sky and to Its Myths and Legends	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Makes a great gift	This box of stars holds a neat little pocketbook guide to the 88 constellations plus the legends &amp; myths behind them. Its definitely a starter guide so don't expect a full size book. Its more like a thick pamphlet of the major legends. I bought it for the beautiful llustrations drawn in that old world cartography art. Its a great coffee table book/box. If you're looking for the same artwork, there's a blankbook planisphere on amazon by Paperblanks Book Company.	2002-01-14
US	50934204	RH0MNX7WC92U6	0789435217	708726191	DK Handbooks: Stars and Planets	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Nice coffee table book	I found this book to be interesting, but not in-depth enough for intermediate astronomers. The information on the planets is overly simplistic and for entertainment purposes. For example, instead of having a graph of basic information for every planet, sometimes it lists essential information (like orbital period) and sometimes it doesn't which makes it useless as a reference.<br />I suggest it for the younger prospective amateur, but for older users get the Peterson's Field Guide: Stars and Planets. Very sturdy build and good guide for charting the planets.	2001-11-29
US	50934204	R3C2Q3NEKQ108D	0451450523	22804953	The Last Unicorn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless	This is a fairytale I plan to have on the nightstand, waiting to be read to my children. Its a beautiful lyrical tale, something you can read over and over again just for the poetic enjoyment. In only 200 pages, Beagle's characters ring so true. Most writers fail to manage that in twice the length! After countless years of solitude (unicorns live alone), the unicorn cannnot remember when she saw another of her kind. She fears that she may be the last one. She runs into a fumbling low-rate Magician. Together they travel through a forest where Merrymen worship Robinhood and travel to the castle by the sea in search for another of her kind. From the first sentence to the last, you'll be gifted with such lush and surreal beauty and vivid characters. I loved it!<br />It ranks in the league of The Hobbit as not only a children's story, but a timeless tale for all ages.	2001-11-06
US	50934204	R3Q17B7KKR7L2P	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	2	45	56	N	Y	Promising but cut the cheese	Primary Inversion is a heady mix of the worst of romance and the best of hardcore sf. The sadistic Traders and psionically-enchanced Skolians are fighting a continuous war. The two heirs of enemy houses(ahem, Romeo and Juliet?) fall instantly in love and cause a great ruckus. After a quick Sunday morning run-through, that is all I got from the book.<br />I'll probably be blasted for not giving this book stellar ratings, but hey I'm trying to be helpful by critiquing good AND bad points. I was interested in Asaro's writing because of her background in physics and was hungry for new female science fiction writers. Unfortunately, the plot reeks of immaturity. Grossly adolescent, Sauscony, the older but so sexy heroine, reads like a female version of James T. Kirk whose \\"heartbender\\" (umm, shrink) asserts that she is incapable of being with an equal. Bagging little boys is fine, but even that was boring! The galaxy seems to be chock full of strapping Jagernauts, quivering barmaids, and gorgeous little college boys, and a line of Emperors surnamed \\"Qox\\". Oh baby, whose Qox is it.. Ur Qox baby! And for &quot;puggings sake&quot;, do adults not swear like adults? This is like the Bold and the Beautiful in Space.<br />There are a few positive points that, with more time and training would have made this book digestable. The underlying technology is refreshingly real and captivating, the ftl drives and antimatter weapons for example. Empathic fighters have cybernetic implants that can block their victims dying screams. The notion of love at first sight between the two heirs would seem silly if not for the fact that they had engineered &quot;Rhon&quot; genes that create pheremones so potent, they rack their potential mates with primal lust (like genetic soulmates). I honestly have no qualms about mixing romance with SF, but I was hoping for a more depth in character, plot, etc. You won't get compelling themes on the human condition, or strangely unique aliens or strong memorable characters. Hopefully, after this first try, Asaro will churn out much better yarns with the hope that she will dump the vacuous romantic cliches, keep the clean prose and intelligent science, and come up with a stronger plot.	2001-11-05
US	50934204	R3405TI64XZUO6	0553293362	834333861	Second Foundation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Battle of the telepaths	By this point, most readers will have adjusted to Asimov's style and its pretty much the same in this last installment of the original trilogy. I was excited to see the figure of a woman on the cover, thinking that there would finally be some character building, but alas - that just ain't Asimov. Nevertheless, however lightly and briefly her character was portrayed, Arkady Darell was a refreshingly strong female presence. The tale continues, as the Mutant Mule continues to seek out the Second Foundation. The First Foundationers are now convinced that the Second Foundation does exist and the battle between psychologists and tehcnologists comes to a head. The telepathic Second Foundation sends their secret agents to dissaude the Foundation and prevent the Mule from discovering their identity.<br />I continued reading Foundation's Edge and Foundation and Earth and was rather disappointed with the lack of focus. I rate the quality of the trilogy as first being the best, second being second best, and this one the weakest. Unless you're interested in making the connection between Asimov's Robot universe and this one, just read this trilogy, and forget the others.	2001-11-02
US	50934204	RSDO623PT27TS	0380817616	905850591	Stations of the Tide	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Vastly intelligent, but not without flaws	This far future cyberpunk detective story is only a thin mask for the underlying speculations on the emptiness of life, existentialism, and mortality. Though only 250 pages, it take times to drink in the poetic prose; Every thought and conversation is wrought with philosophical meaning.<br />A bureaucrat is sent out to Miranda to track down Gregorian - a mystic whom, after speaking to the cybernetic embodiment of \\"Earth\\" was given a box of unnamed technology. In this far future, use of this techonology on small worlds on Miranda is illegal and the bureaucrat is sent out to hunt Gregorian down and retrieve the mystery technology. While humans are fleeing the creeping tidewater, native Mirandan animals prepare to morph into sea-dwellers and the bureacrat races with the tide to catch an elusive criminal.<br />Without a doubt, Stations of the Tide is an intelligent book and compared to most adolescent grunts in SF, it's deservedly a Nebula winner. However, I give it 3 stars as its style is more like a short story where the strength is in morals and themes but weak on characters and plot. Swanwick's unnamed protaganist - the \\"bureaucrat\\" and Gregorian are more allegorical puppets than real fleshed out human beings. Furthermore, for a compelling take on philosophy, Sophie's World is a far better novel.<br />...Scenes switch erratically between reality and the cybernetic world without much adjustment for the reader. Thats easy to do in a movie but in a book it gets confusing when at the end of the paragraph you've just realize the person's \\"plugged in\\". The haunts, supposedly extinct aliens that take on human form, were an interesting element, but were not integrated well enough into the plot. The side story of Gregorian's mother and the sisters was a weak device.<br />Read it - its a surrealistic mind-bender where robot briefcases walk and wish to evolve, witches teach tantric sex and leave you tattoos as a trophy, planets rain down mushroom showers, and the wistful ending will leave you pondering about life.	2001-11-02
US	50934204	R33TOWM4N5A4M8	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Still going good	I am not a science fiction fan without being a fan of the big idea, but in the Foundation Asimov introduced galaxy-wide empires and a plausible new science. There's no new compelling themes in this book. Without that quality, you are left to Asimov's weaknesses: one-dimensional characters and stark writing style, but hey - its still Asimov and his stuff is always fun to read.<br />Like the last book, this is a hodgepodge of short stories Asimov wrote separately. The first half of the book is about a rising general who fights against The Plan but gets swatted down because he can't fight the mathematical forces of psychohistory. The next part is the fun part. One factor was not counted for in his equation: a mutant who knocks The Plan off kilter. To some the identity of the Mule will be laughably obvious. Personally, I was uncertain whether I was on the right track or not.<br />It reads like a mystery novel , though dry in style and severely lacking in the human quotient. Nonetheless, it is a continuing tale of the rise and fall of future civilizations, telepathic mutants, and psychohistory. This is THE classic sci-fi trilogy.	2001-11-02
US	50934204	R36SIPC1HV91PK	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The fantasy that is not	If you're one to shy away from fantasy because of overplayed fairies and dragons, A Game of Thrones will hook you in and whisk you away to an epic world of great medieval houses, treachery, and intrigue with only a good dash of mysticism. Martin's succinct style, thankfully devoid of pedantry, works to showcase his talent in weaving a large cast of characters interposing several knuckle-gripping plot lines.<br />This is a land of decade long seasons where spooks roam beyond The Wall and dragons are believed to be long extinct. Scenes blink back and forth as kings, princes, bastards, and wives shuffle and plot to win or maintain the throne of the Seven Kingdoms. The somewhat shrouded death of the Hand of the King leads his successor, Ned Stark to question the Lannisters (those wretched inlaws) of treachery. The last of the the previously overthrown Targaryens who barely escaped the slaughter of their family, enlist an army across the sea and struggle back to regain the throne.<br />In regards to all the complaints about rape, violence, and swearing in this book. ** NEWSFLASH ** Such heinous acts do exist in this world (especially in medeival times) and Martin unabashedly does a tasteful and respectful job of displaying the uglier side of humanity in all its forms.<br />You'll be left on a cliffhanger in every character-titled chapter, not to mention each book so its not recommended for easily exasperated readers. Even so, this first installment does have an appropriate ending with a beautiful denouement in which ... well - no spoilers. A Game of Thrones does stand on its own, but of course, with such talented craft, why stop here?<br />This is more War of the Roses, than Lord of the Rings. Though like LOTR, the fantasy element only augments the lyrical beauty of the stage through which the you will see the futility of honor, true power rise from frailty of innocence, and not all heroes are handsome and good. The lines of good/evil will blur and you'll come to love/hate Starks and Lannisters with equal passion.<br />Strong points: Tyrion Lannister, the Dothraki, the direwolves, Arya Stark, Daenrys Targaryen, winter is coming.<br />Weak points: Jon Snow's story, The Others, Bran Stark, good guysate Starks and Lannisters with equal passion. <br />Strong points: Tyrion Lannister, the Dothraki, the direwolves, Arya Stark, Daenrys Targaryen, winter is coming.<BR>Weak points: Jon Snow's story, The Others, Bran Stark, good guys	2001-11-01
US	50934204	R36JOC14R0TWC2	0671578510	862976515	Telzey Amberdon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Make it 3.5 - fun quick reading	I can see how Schmitz created a following with Telzey's character. She's a bubbly and fresh 15 yr old law student and a xenotelepath to boot. The characterization is reminiscent of Podkayne of Mars which reigns as my young-adult favorite. Unfortunately, thats really the only character that sticks to the mind - everyone else is filler. The first couple of stories introduce Telzey and her growing telepathic powers and her personal battles with the Big Brother machines of the Hub.<br />The plot is fastpaced, not in the least challenging but entertaining nonetheless. I liked the collection of short stories with the exception of The Lion Game which took too long for being all action and no beef. Overall its not going to leave you breathing heavily with awe and its quickly forgettable. I recommend it as a good quick read of the classics of sf that fortunately has been much improved upon since then. Check out L.M.Bujold for a witty romp.	2001-10-24
US	50934204	RW0EFSD1WFVFH	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Impressively suprised	Hyperion is written in an unconventional format, though we all know its based on Canterbury Tales. But to say &quot;its been done before&quot; is like saying a new epic poem (a la Odyssey) has been done before. So what, nothing is original - its all in the exposition.<br />And what a great exposition this is! Simmons has quite a lyrical talent in describing environs.You can close your eyes and  literally see the lapis lazuli skies and the waves of the verdant Sea of Grass. The Hyperion universe is connected by AI created-farcaster &quot;portals&quot; that take citizens to a planet of mile high Sequoia-esque trees, a massive ocean world, the Hegemony's military central on Mars, or a sprawling Foundation-like metropolis planet.<br />From these worlds, six people were chosen to make a pilgrimage to the Shrike Temple on Hyperion. The Time tombs surrounding the Shrike have started acting anamalously and the Hegemony is on the brink of war with another human faction - the Ousters who have their own interest in the Shrike and Hyperion.  The nebulous Shrike creature is revered as the Lord of Pain and feared as a grotesque monster. All of the pilgrims have encountered it before... and survived. Through their voyage to the temple, the pilgrims share with each other their stories and try to figure out underlying connection they all have to the Shrike.<br />The individual stories are all poignant, my favorite being &quot;The Priest's Tale&quot; and second to that the &quot;The Scholar's Tale&quot;. Each pilgrim is an archetype of his/her profession: the honorable and brave soldier, flighty poet, compassionate scholar, faithful priest, strong detective, etc. Initially they seemed like stereotypes, but Simmons did a good job of fleshing them out as invidividuals by playing them off of each other's personality quirks. I found the poet's turret's like syndrome hilarious! You'll find that each story teaches you a lesson about humanity.<br />The book is not 100% perfect. The Captainmysteriously vanishes with no apparent plot value. I found the Detective's and Consul's tales very weak.  You know nil about the Ousters other than that they are barbarians and they want Hyperion too. The book has no main plot beyond the pilgrims telling each other tales but obviously the point of the book wasn't to be a &quot;beginning-middle-end&quot; novel. Rather, if you take away the different planets, spaceships, and AIs,  Hyperion is five intertwined beautifully written modern day fables and in the end, very much recommended!	2001-09-26
US	50934204	R3SZW91GL6CHYD	0446676640	560531694	The Snow Queen	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A storytelling genius at work	A writer with Joan Vinge's talent crosses all genres because she has that unique ability of writing a story about people. Her sci-fi rendition of Andersen's Snow Queen is phenomenal. Its got fascinating elements of sci-fi: a fallen Empire, dozens of cultures and races, twin suns, century-long seasons, and corruption of immortality. <br />Its brimming with eye popping oohs and awwws; Vinge twists the scientific into the fantastical. Her characterization evokes genuine interest in their lives and struggles. She's become my favorite author since then. I just wish she'd get back into writing - though I understand genius can not be rushed.	2001-09-06
US	50934204	R2146UKVUNUWJ6	0671578286	644110908	Cordelia's Honor	Books	4	84	87	N	N	Fulfilling, fun, intelligent, space romp	I read this book before I even knew of Bujold or the Miles Universe. Despite the cheesy old cover, I pressed on and discovered a treasure of an epic space saga. Cordelia's Honor is actually two books: Shards of Honor and Barrayar. This is a novel for the space opera fan and those who appreciate skillful writing. Bujold's talent leans more on the character driven side rather than the scientific side (a la Star Wars). You will be introduced to galaxy spanning human colonies, namely: Beta and Barrayar. These two worlds collide via the Betan captain - Cordelia - a liberated, headstrong female captain of an expeditionary science ship and Aral - the so called Butcher and warlord from the monarchical Barrayar. Forced to surive together in a remote world, they discover each other's humanity after bridging the gap between their worlds that seemed so violently different because of xenophobia and ignorance. Bujold's intelligent characterization evoke pity and terror in a remarkable tightly woven tale - and its her first published book!<br />In Barrayar, Aral marries Cordelia despite his world's disapproval and she learns to deal with the patriarchal society despite her liberated upbringing on Beta Colony. This is where it most reminds of me of Star Wars: monarchies, corrupt leaders, and political intrigue. The action sequences are smart and suspenseful. In both books there's a whole slew of supporting characters and none of them are two dimensional. At the end is a spinoff to the Miles Universe and you will learn how he was born with his deformity and will get a whole 8 (?) more novels that are just as good as this one.	2001-09-06
US	50934204	R2C9RK88KUJ6ND	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good quick read	Songs of Distant Earth isn't the most compelling or well-written book unlike Rendezvous with Rama and 2001. However, it is a quick Sunday afternoon read. The characters are one dimensional and forgettable. I do recommend this book for its simple and elegant portrayal of the emotional and social impact of the time lag in realistic interstellar travel.	2001-08-08
US	50934204	R20F955ZQ84X0F	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	5	15	17	N	N	True classic	Personally, I don't like &quot;classic&quot; sci-fi. It can be preachy, dated, dry, corny or just not as &quot;mature&quot; as modern science fiction. However, Asimov gives just enough characterization, not too much science and the right amount of action adventure and conceptual gems to keep your mind racing. He truly is the grand daddy of science fiction.<br />Quirky lines like &quot;Galaxy knows!&quot; or &quot;By Seldon!&quot; evoke nostalgia for the time of space rangers and laser guns. So what if nuclear power is a thing of the past? Asimov doesn't beat you down with tecnobabble. You just know that thats the prime power source in his idea of the future. Remember, this was written in 1941. Furthermore, the writing style and dialogue don't seem dated at all. Asimov's writing is simple, clean, and doesn't get bogged down with excess ramblings. His true talent is in plotting unexpected twists and turns that make this book a pageturner.<br />Hari Seldon created psychohistory. It is mathematics applied to the development of human society on a grand scale. Seldon's new science predicts the path of human civilization with no regard to individual actions. Religion has given us fate vs. free will. Asimov poses a perhaps even more frustrating question, what if science tells us that one man's will cannot change the path of history?<br />You're not going to get soliquoys droning on and on about a lost love or a crumbled courage; But what you do get is a brilliant collection of short stories Asimov wrote separately that later were compiled as one novel.<br />The four(?) stories are brief yet cohesive glimpses into the developing stages of the Foundation's rise amidst the decay of the Imperial Empire. Each character driven event propels the Foundation through its first stages of development: political autonomy, technology protected by religion, and economy. I think Asimov did a great job in breathing life into these characters. After I finished the book, I remembered Hari Seldon's mystic wisdom, Salvor Hardin's determination and Hober Mallow's money hungry practicality and what remains is an overwhelming sense of awe and satisfaction. You will get that too.	2001-07-31
US	50934204	R27CFYGZ929E9Q	067165604X	816543640	Ethan of Athos	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Read it for leisure	I found the premise interesting and it could have been a solid novel if Bujold weren't just taking a foray into B-movie humor. Still, it was fun.<br />Forget Ethan, I want more of Elli Quinn. I was expecting more  development on Elli in future novels but unfortunately Quinn's character  development, along with a handful of the other mercenaries, has  hapharzardly been pre-empted by Miles lethargic romance trilogy. How sad...	1999-11-22
US	50934204	R1M9G9RFTO2U7H	0671578294	531934413	Borders of Infinity (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fantastic! And I hate short stories!	I usually can't stand short stories because I just NEED that lengthy feel of a novel to be able to get into the author's mind. But from reading Bujold's previous works, it was no problem to get the feel of Miles' world  - I already knew it by heart.<br />Ironically enough, I think Bujold has done  her best characterization in the Borders of Infinity and in Ethan of Athos  - her shortest works. At times the tone is light-hearted but the overriding  themes were truly compelling.<br />I LOVE Borders of Infinty (the short  story), I love it, love it, LOVE IT - Especially the moment when Miles bows  down with the hat and does that poetic dance in front of the women.<br />I  can't believe how well and how completely Bujold created a world within the  dome. Read it, you'll know what I mean.	1999-11-22
US	50934204	R7GZG54AQVRDL	0345346904	289202770	Gateway (Heechee Saga)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	An ok read, but a &quot;grand master&quot; No	My rating of Gateway is relative to what I think are true sci-fi classics: Dune, Foundation, Snow Queen, Hyperion, etc. For Gateway to qualify in my book as a winner it must have qualities of Hugo winners: character depth&amp;development, grand themes, innovative science, a compelling epic tale, and MOST OF ALL good writing. Gateway lacks all of that.<br />The story weaves you through the present and past to tell you of a story of a man who hit it big discovering some ancient Heechee artifact. Gateway gives you computer psychologists, people stuck in a singularity for eternity, coal miners in Mars, etc; It all seems fascinating. Its just not cohesive. <br />Overall, Gateway is rather dull. The elements and ideas are good, but the exposition was just too dry for my tastes. The pace of the story is slow and Pohl decribes very little of the alien environs, and even less in human emotions. The main character seemed very one-dimensional. He didn't seem guilty enough, curious enough, or greedy enough to carry the reader through. It all seemed like a very rough draft or a short story from Analog magazine as opposed to a real novel.	1999-11-22
US	50934204	R2ZS5ZOQ6GLCHG	0671721658	422948219	The Mind Pool	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Cool characters, but dry drab plot	Sheffield's imagination is WAY out on the fringe.  The book was definitely unpredictable, but not in an exciting way. I kept reading because I didn't KNOW what was going to happen NOT because I wanted to, but I just had to  get it over with.<br />I was very into the plot the first half of the book,  because it seemed to have a hard military/sci-fi edge to it. But then the  whole nimrod hunt turned into this frilly, spiritual vulcan interspecies  mind-meld issue and the characters turned into 2-dimensional victims.  Sheffield completely messed up and lost any concept of conflict and  resolution and played too much with the intangible themes and too little on  making a real gripping story.	1999-11-22
US	50934204	R2MHOI086BYPKR	0446671274	353646401	Cyteen	Books	1	9	27	N	N	Slow, choppy writing style, boring plot	If I could give it a - 0 - star, I would. For two years I've been trying to pick up this book and get past the first 50 pages and can't seem to do it. <br />There's too much going on in the beginning. No characterization. I  could care less about the government or the people in whatever convulated  plot Cherryh is trying to call drama. And if anyone could help me out with  finding the entertainment in the book, feel free to email me.<br />Now if you  want a real author, read Joan D. Vinge's Snow Queen and Psion series. Now  that is drama.	1999-09-13
US	50934204	RFFZDY6O9PHLD	0445205296	560531694	The Snow Queen	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A storytelling genius at work	A writer with Joan Vinge's talent crosses all genres because she has that unique ability of writing a story about PEOPLE. Her sci-fi rendition of Andersen's Snow Queen is phenomenal. Its got fascinating elements of  sci-fi: a fallen Empire, dozens of cultures and races, twin suns,  century-long seasons, and corruption of immortality. <br />Its brimming with  eye popping oohs and awwws; Vinge twists the scientific into the  fantastical.  Her characterization evokes genuine interest in their lives  and struggles. She's become my favorite author since then. I just wish  she'd get back into writing - though I understand genius can not be rushed.	1999-09-13
