US	50932712	R2K4N3OB3WLJI0	1559636378	342862456	The Empty Ocean	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	What 'bury my heart at wounded knee' was for the sea.	Where Empty Ocean wins above a dozen other books is how it takes a bottom line approach, species by species and gives you the facts.  Facts verifiable by the ever-handy Redlist(provided online by the IUCN).  Ellis goes quite a bit further though, giving a historical account of each species.  It is nice to know, for instance, why it is that the Sea Otter has ended up in the predicament it has; never mind that a friend of mine (oh my) was quite unaware that the Dodo was eaten out of existance.   <br /> <br /> <br />Ellis makes each animal a story--and a worthwhile story at that.  I recall sharing 'Wounded Knee' with a friend of mine who gave up after a few chapters saying he 'got the point', and while it works for literary criticism, it doesn't for historical or scientific criticism.  I doubt that Ellis's book is in anyway comprehensive, but while most readers will grasp the levity of things very quickly, it deserves to be read in its entirity.  I think the various species mentioned here (many in trouble, many already extinct) deserve that much.    <br /> <br />Best yet, while Ellis does little to disguise his deep affinity for all those things that would make the sea their home, his arguments rest not at all upon this sentimentality, but rather on the instability of our marine-based economies as populations crash.   <br />  <br />At least a dozen eighteenth century extinctions would read like this epitaph \\"Like the sea cow, it was ridiculously easy to kill and tasted good...\\", but Ellis exposes how modern methods are far more effective in decimating extant species than any whalers ever could have managed. <br /> <br />Possibly one of the most essential reads for an easy overview of the state of sea-going species, though readers with a greater interest will no doubt want to dig farther into the literature and on-line resources.	2005-07-19
US	50932712	R3U047ZOW7BCH3	1591165938	611497283	Phoenix, Vol. 5: Resurrection	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Another outstanding entry	Dr. Tezuka's life work--'Phoenix'--is a somewhat uneven assortment of often brilliant story telling and images.  This should be expected since his work on this epic (can we use any other term, given the storyline spans all of human history?) starts in the late 60's and continues until the end of his life (1989).  Phoenix seems to be one of Tezuka's outlets for exploring the very boundaries of comics the same way he explored experimental techniques in animation (Jumping, Broken Down, etc.)  It is exciting to think how Phoenix came very close to changing the comic industry, translated some time ago (I forget exactly when) by the Dadakai group.  Then for some reason the idea was scrapped.  When we look at the publications by Alan Moore and (rightfully) elevate his work--seeing it as influential on where modern comics are right now; there is something humbling in how Tezuka was building a mountain of works more awe-inspiring and more innovating than anyone could have imagined decades before anyone heard of Moore.  Tezuka seemingly created the lengthy graphic novel on his own, pushing the comic as a serious artistic medium.  If only Phoenix had gotten published when the translations were first made! (late 70's, early 80's???)      Though the impact is somewhat lessened, Viz has made a serious attempt to rectify the problem.  The first 5 volumes of Phoenix in print and in English is truly a marvelous thing.  They are most often moralistic, but Dr. Tezuka seems to enjoy pushing our own sense of morality to its breaking point (and I suppose that is where story telling really begins to get interesting anyway).  The stories are often somewhat cosmic in nature, featuring a giant flaming bird right out of Stravinsky's firebird suite (Tezuka even admits the inspiration).  Being a bird which lives forever and who's blood gives eternal life, there is rarely a question that each story will in time deal with issues of mortality and resurrection.  A lot of characters die, often in horrible ways.  Tezuka is both pessimistic about the final outcome of the human race, while also retaining some hope--and for me that's where I find the work fantastic.    Vol. 5 is probably not the very best of what's published (I award this to Future and Karma) but it is excellent nonetheless and still miles beyond what most people would consider to be comic.  Although the story is really no different in tone from early installments, the in-jokes are notably gone.  This change seems to be wide-spread through Tezuka's later work, and it does aid the story a bit (the in-jokes nearly overwhelmed and capsized his earlier Phoenix entry, Yamato).    What Resurrection exceeds at is good science fiction.  This story wrestles with many of the same themes that P.K.Dick is famous for in the West.  What it means to be human is central to this story along with themes of persecution of the weak (just as in Astroboy, Robots continue to have questionable rights--being treated as tools while they clearly have feelings in Tezuka's stories).      Now the next step is terrifying because this is where Dadakai stopped translating Phoenix.  There are seven more volumes (though even this is not a complete cycle since Tezuka did not live to complete the entire piece), and I can only hope that Viz choses to continue the publication of this series--even though it may not be as profitable as Dragon Ball Z and Yu-Gi-Oh!  This is so very clearly an important contribution to comics (for English readers), along with Viz's earlier publication of Tezuka's Adolf and Vertical's publication of Buddha, that it would be terribly unfortunate if Viz chose to stop here.	2004-12-28
US	50932712	R3E3ESBBQ6QQT7	0689206518	500045156	Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book, terrible cover	I've reviewed this somewhere else, so I won't say any more about the book, but what is with this new terrible cover? Fortunately Amazon has retained a picture of the old cover, and I had hoped the new one would only be on the paper back version, but now it seems that Zena's original cover artwork will not only be absent from all versions but she won't even get credited for the artwork in the book. Still, I am not altogether surprised, Simon and Schuster's reissues of children's lit have featured some stunningly mediocre or even terrible artwork of late. While publishers seemingly have the sensibility to give 40+ year old classics facelifts that are appropriate of their age, the new artwork for Mrs. Frisby looks like its for 3 year olds. If I was in 5th grade, I'd be embarassed to read this book because of the cover!<br />**One important note, I'm referring to the 'orange' cover in which Mrs. Frisby is shown wearing a full dress and the rats can be seen below carrying a cord...ick!**	2002-01-19
US	50932712	R1RZBVTELFJ1WT	0439098262	139963378	The Mouse and His Child	Books	5	28	30	N	N	An American classic with new illustrations	When I first heard that Mouse and his Child was coming back into print I was happy but not elated. I already own a few copies I tend to loan to those who need to read slightly warped children literature, and I was also skeptical about the new illustrations. Although Mouse and his Child marked the last joint project between Russell and Lillian Hoban, the illustration matched the text perfectly, and one is stuck asking 'if it already works, why fix it?' With that, I put the book out of my mind and didn't think of it again until I happened upon it at a local book store. Given a chance to peruse through this book I was immediately convinced about the quality of this reissue. The new illustrations are as perfect as Lillian's (though with their own particular bent, eschewing both the comedic and dark aspects of the story) while the book is in all other respects put together beautifully. For those who have been dealing with beat-up paperback copies, your long years of wait are over. The cover cannot be truly appreciated from the small pic on Amazon's page (no slight to them, but you simply need to pick up the book and examine it to see how wonderful it is.) Once you remove the dust jacket, Small's beautiful sketch is found to take the WHOLE of the cover, wrapping around from back to front, while the inside cover shows a series of sketches depicting the constant rotations of the 'mouse and child' toy. I imagine that taste may very in regards to Small's drawings, but they are tasteful and do not depart from the spirit of the story. Its a beautifully crafted book.<br />As to the story itself, I refered to this as an American classic, and it truly is, though perhaps a classic never appreciated in its place of origin. Mouse and his Child was widely hailed as such throughout Europe but seemed to scare kids in the US (perhaps because Mouse was not intended as a children story but rather got marketed as such.) It remains among the likes of other stories for all ages (its regularly compared to Tolkien, Richard Adams...personally I'd be more likely to compare it to a strange amalgamation of Kenneth Graham and Herman Melville) and addresses difficult issues while posessing a potentially terrifying plot (though black humor abounds). It is hard to think that while Twain's Huck Finn is claimed as one of the pillars of our national identity that we do not equally embrace Hoban's Mouse, for both are journey's through our cultural landscape, both dark and at times frightening, yet ultimately rewarding. Whether 'Mouse' will reach a new generation with this reprinting is hard to say, but it is still good to see this one back on the shelves.ompared to Tolkien, Richard Adams...personally I'd be more likely to compare it to a strange amalgamation of Kenneth Graham and Herman Melville) and addresses difficult issues while posessing a potentially terrifying plot (though black humor abounds). It is hard to think that while Twain's Huck Finn is claimed as one of the pillars of our national identity that we do not equally embrace Hoban's Mouse, for both are journey's through our cultural landscape, both dark and at times frightening, yet ultimately rewarding. Whether 'Mouse' will reach a new generation with this reprinting is hard to say, but it is still good to see this one back on the shelves.	2001-09-17
US	50932712	R2YVR8FNEXFIUX	0743407245	201366598	The New Dinosaurs	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A wonderful book back in print.	I really can't express how happy I am to see this book in print again.  This book has always stood out in my mind as something truly special--I owned a copy at the age of 10, but somehow in the 'intervening decades', I lost track of it and felt it was gone forever.  But just today I saw this on the shelf, and within a glance or two of the illustrations knew this was the book I had lost.  For the 10 year olds in all of us, I can say that Stout has really made the dino's come alive on the page--its enough to make even hesitant readers devour the book.  I do not believe the publishers are overrating the importance of rekindling the world's interest in dinosaurs, as my memories of if have persisted all this time, despite so many other works which should have displaced it.<br />Stout's art is nothing short of fantastic--certainly there are a fair number of minor works here, but there are also paintings and illustrations here that are simply georgous.  Scientific detail, emotion, rich and beautiful backgrounds, and sometimes even humor--they all come through here.  While I am a great fan of the 'Walking with Dinosaurs' series, there is something not achieved in that film which is accomplished here because the images convey more than merely a depiction of dinosaurs.  It is so blindingly clear that Stout must be a great dinosaur fan because he draws them in a way that is very passionate while also showing some incredible skill.<br />In the end, if you are looking for a good scientific book on dinosaurs, The Complete Dinosaur remains the ultimate tome, but many will find it unapproachable, and I would expect the size and reading level to be too much for all but the most dedicated high school student.  Given this limitation, The New Dinosaurs is a book that could be read and understood by enthusiastic 8th graders (though probably with some help), and would provide no difficulty to high school age--which isn't to say that the text is dumbed down, but that instead it isn't bogged down with more science than the layman needs.  More importantly though, children of most ages will find the illustrations compelling, and even the little ones will probably read parts of the text and try to understand the stories being presented.  Once again, I know that as a 10 year old, I found the original edition nothing short of incredible, and I'm sure I read a good chunk of it.<br />Of course, there is the potential down-side for getting this book for kids--there is an illustration of dinosaur sex (nothing terribly detailed) and another of a dinosaur deficating.  Perhaps it was just a matter of being raised by a mother who loved biology and was a teacher, but the inclusion of these topics as points of scientific interest, never seemed like an issue.<br />So to wrap this up, The New Dinosaurs seems the perfect book for several different people--fans of dinosaur art (or nature art), fans of dinosaurs (who might appreciate a more art-oriented book), younger readers with an interest in science and/or dinosaurs who would find large science texts intimidating, and really, just about any kid, because they all love dinosaurs.<br />Lastly, this edition looks to have an additional 30 pages or so of 'introduction' which not only includes some great new illustrations by Stout, but also some more detailed descriptions of the Mesozoic period.	2001-07-04
US	50932712	R12SF9QJ370XC0	1569715025	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 1: Assassin's Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fantastic series, but probably the worst entry...	Currently at 10 volumes, LW&amp;C is probably the best thing you can buy on the shelves of your local comic book store.  Unfortunately, volume 1 is a bit of a let down.  Only the last story is truly a Lone Wolf and Cub installment, while the remaining material seems to have been done before a clear idea of the story had been established.  Itto Ogami even smiles!<br />There have already been some excellent descriptions of this series by other reviewers, so I won't go into a lot of detail.  Note that if you just want to read a big hack and slash comic, LW&amp;C really won't fill that need, though at times it is insanely violent.  There does seem to be a general pattern--some aspect of Japanese history is explained to us that somehow leads to Ogami killing a bunch of people--but as simple as that sounds, the stories are elegant and often display a rugged sophistication that is unheard of in modern comics.  LW&amp;C also manages to keep a continous thread going through several individual stories.  By the time we get to volume 10, it sometimes seems as though it is just one big story--but when the pace slows, I'm sure it will return to a more episodic narrative.  This is nice touch as you can generally just loan a volume to a friend without needing to start from the very beginning (volume 2 for instance makes a far better introduction than volume 1!)	2001-06-29
US	50932712	RNUTY9AUKB4NK	0451527712	655343360	Frankenstein (Signet Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The classics aren't always written well.	Shelly's Frankenstein is pretty well understood to be a flawed work, an amazing first attempt by a young author while also being a classic of literature.  It is hard to say how I avoided reading it for so long but was surprised to find my friends negative attitudes on this book.  Classics though must be read, so I devoured this over the course of a weekend and found the book quite enjoyable, however, at times I found some of its problems nearly overwhelming.<br />The first problem Frankenstein has is that it is (as far as content goes) really a short story.  I can't imagine it needing more than 60-100 pages, but Shelly inflates it to over 200, and for no discernable reason.  The expanded length leads only to additional passages where Frankenstein himself is lying unconscious for months, or needless travelogue scenes which only serve to detract from the story.  It might also be said that after 100 pages of melancholic whimperings from Frankenstein the reader has probably lost all sympathy toward the character.  There are also certain plot elements that seem to repeat themselves a bit too often, but I the appeal of these elements will be based upon the reader.<br />Ultimately, Frankenstien seems a great story that you occasionally feel compelled to skim through.  There is a certain sloppiness (I am still not clear what happened to Edward--the only surviving Frankenstein, but I do know something about some of the townspeople mentioned in a letter which have NOTHING to do with the story), but when you put all that aside, the very heart of Frankenstein is an enjoyable read.  The monster is a sympathetic one and I found myself glued to the pages as he first illustrated how he came to understand the world around him.<br />Unlike Moby Dick which should never be abridged since so much of its irrelevance seems the primary point of the story (I often consider Ahab and the whale merely a sub-plot in Ishmael's life), Frankenstein could do with some good editing.  Despite Frankenstein being a relatively short book to begin with, even 200+ pages feels a bit trying when all you are reading about is landscape and Frankenstein fainting.stein being a relatively short book to begin with, even 200+ pages feels a bit trying when all you are reading about is landscape and Frankenstein fainting.	2001-06-11
US	50932712	RZDPRLDIJEFVW	0786866098	128129050	Princess Mononoke: The Art and Making of Japan's Most Popular Film of All Time	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A coffee table book that isn't trite?	I've given this a high rating, not because it is flawless but because it is an awesome companion to the film and a wonderful keepsake for that time in your life when you get a coffee table to put it on.  If you own the film, you probably won't need this--and honestly, I purchased it as a way to show my support of the US distribution of this film.  The book is a US translation of the Japanese edition, and as you can expect was lovingly put together.  The last section does seem to perhaps be filler, but with such wonderful reproductions from the film along with in-depth background information, what more could you want out of it.  On the other hand, it isn't really cheap either, but given it is probably one of the 10 best animated films ever, it makes a very nice addition to your over-sized film book collections.  <br />Lastly, if you can recall the boring titles your grandparents kept on their coffee table, I think you can start to seel the appeal of things like this.  Why settle for pretty national geographic titles (or whatever) when you can have this or big godzilla coffee table books (as do I)?  Let your future grand-kids know that you were plenty weird in your former years.	2001-06-11
US	50932712	R33XP795E5O9VO	0205261531	105429837	How to Develop a Professional Portfolio: A Manual for Teachers	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Pricey but essential	Yes, I see the price.  I know its thinner than the average pad of paper, but you want this.  Trust me.  Well if you are studying to be a teacher you want this.  Assuming that the person looking at this page is probably looking for a good deal on this twenty three dollar eighty page book (does it qualify as a book?) because their prof has assigned it--please, think past the price.  This is a book I picked up when I started my program and didn't look at again until I was nearing the end, and at that point began seriously regretting not giving the book some attention all the way through.  Portfolios don't have to be that hard, and this book gives you some clear cut SOLID example for what you can do for each standard.  The great thing is, if you do read through this book and keep an eye on your growing portfolio while you are in college, you'll find there are all sorts of things--mostly the papers you write in all those classes that you can use here.  What's even better is this will help keep you focused on developing your own skills as a teacher in both qualitative and quantitative ways instead of just going into it with no idea of where the road leads.<br />Lastly, I find that a lot of books for educators are not the greatest thing in the world.  This tiny handbook IS.  This is like one of those little pocket bibles or tao te ching's or something.  Take it with you wherever you go and consult it as new situations arise!	2000-12-21
US	50932712	R1626493PUDYBY	0205263216	877438850	Psychology of Learning for Instruction (2nd Edition)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Better than you think.	Just finishing my masters in secondary education, this is the book I find myself using as a reference most often.  Just about everything is here in regards to the psychology of education from the elementry stuff like Behaviorism through a hoard of theorists like Piaget, Asubel, Brunner, etc. etc. etc.  The contrast presented at the end of the book between Gagne and the constructivists makes the book feel particularly relevant.  <br />Who knows, maybe it is just that so many of the other books for teachers seem lackluster (am I the only one who didn't find Wong particularly useful???), but Driscoll's book is one of the best reference books for teachers I've come across so far.<br />And yeah, I don't think it was meant as a 'reference' book per se, but this will definitely point you in the right direction and while it is certainly readible, I found it stood out most for me as a stepping stone to the literature.	2000-12-21
US	50932712	RIRNOAGESTE66	0486200965	475752465	The Autobiography of a Winnebago Indian:  Life, Ways, Acculturation and the Peyote Cult	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The REAL thing.	Very few books truly allow you to meet another person from a far off time who lived a life completely different than the one you know, yet remaining utterly human.  'Autobiography' is the word for word narrative of a Winnebago Indian born sometime in the mid to late 1800's who was asked by Radin to tell about his life.  There are no attempts to make this into a work of political correctness or to shield aspects of the narrator's culture we might find deplorable.  What makes this writing unique is that unlike so many books of 'history', this is about the thoughts and happenings of one individual instead of using the individual as a vehicle to tell another story.  If you are looking for the genuine article--a real document of what it must have been like to have been a Winnebago during this turbulant period, look no farther.	2000-12-01
US	50932712	R1L0XGDN2TBMZX	1572160365	489894703	The Wonderful Adventures Of Nils And The Further Adventures Of Nils Holgersson	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Outstanding bridge between folklore and modern children lit	I just finished the second volume of the Adventures of Nils this morning and feel it is worth a second review having digested the entire work.  There are many levels at which this book is amazing, though it should not  be thought of as being without faults (I have given it a 4/5 with good  cause.)  Nils is many things--at times it seems little more than an excuse  for collecting various folklore, anecdotes, traditions and geography (some  of which is fascinating, some of which is frustrating) while at other times  Lagerlof displays a tremendous ability at story telling that can not help  but compell even the least emotional of readers. Who, for instance, would  not want to be able to communicate with animals or experience their  adventures?  But this is just where the second volume of the work becomes  even more effective than the first as Nils tries to decide which world he  wants to live in.  Akka (the goose leader) even asks that the boy not  forget to leave some quiet and undisturbed places for animals to live in  peace, should Nils become a human being again (how's that for ecological  relevancy?)<br />Nils is highly moralistic piece grounded in a more down to  earth sensibility than we are accustomed to today, however I doubt anyone  will find themselves unable to see the values and sentiments expressed  here, for these are universal:  Along Nils travels he learns about loyalty,  benevolence, the value of friends, and perhaps more importantly the  difficulty of having to part with friends.<br />In addition, as if some  testiment to the author's emotional commitment to the story, she herself  appears in the last chapters of the book and ties it in to her own love of  the old country and her parents, now gone.  While the faults in this book  are very obvious, they are also superficial and they do not (nor could  they) mar the great investment by the author in this truly skillful piece  of children's literature.	2000-07-17
US	50932712	R2IES01LKB7KVR	0809307154	548396828	Moral Principles in Education (Riverside Educational Monographs)	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Great ideas in a stagnant text.	First off, that's a 3.5, not a 3, but whatever.  Perhaps I am just not one for reading philosophy, or as I like to think, many philosophers simply do not understand how to write in a clear fasion.  At the bottom of it,  Dewey's ideas for ethics in education are as vital now as they were when he  wrote it back 1909, but perhaps if he could have made his points in some  way more coherent (at a little over 50 pages, this still feels bloated, I  imagine it could be clearly stated in about 10 pages), the entire US  educational system would have been where it is now by the 20's--and that  truly would have been something revolutionary. Dewey goes so far as  essentially voicing his own primitive theory of constructivism, along with  revolutionary concepts such as 'those who do the doing do the  learning'--namely that teaching should be more student oriented and should  first and foremost engage the student.  There even seems to be a bit of the  'content versus process' debate here, and yet I think there must be more  modern writers who have stated this with greater clarity. For people who  enjoy reading terse philosophical monologues (and this certainly is still  quite readable--I've seen much worse), then certainly pick up this book  both for its historical value and a relatively interesting exploration of  the ethics in teaching.  If your a busy grad student like me though, this  may not seem like it is worth the frustration--especially when you can open  up almost any teaching journal and see the same ideas.  Sure, they didn't  say if first, but I don't fall asleep reading it.	2000-06-13
US	50932712	R2MAVQUSAMUIM5	0763608475	946833997	The Sea-Thing Child	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Russell Hoban, you sly devil...	While Hoban's two other entries that resemble this one (Marzipan Pig, La Corona) are both out of print, the good folks at Candlewick press have republished this beautiful book, complete with new illustrations.<br />It may be debated by some that the old edition of this book, sparsely decorated with b&w sketches perhaps captured the spirit of the story more accurately, however Benson's illustrations are powerful and not at all inappropriate.<br />As to the story, Hoban has again snuck his metaphysical/omni-spiritual grasp of consciousness into this little volume, but being the subvertist he is, the children he wrote this for will no doubt understand it.<br />Replete with quasi poetry and moving allegory, 'Sea-Thing' is about a small diving sea-bird child who was blown out of his nest, and his great fear of the wind,the ocean and the storm. There are cryptic messages, filled with emotion:<br />\\"...but what if I have no music in me?\\"<br />\\"Need must find,\\" said the sea-thing child.<br />\\"Find what?\\" said the crab.<br />\\"Whatever there is,\\" said the sea-thing child.<br />As with much by Hoban, there is too much that could be said, but without doubt this little book speaks volumes about the fear of being and becoming--seemingly not at all distant from his adultwork.	2000-03-28
US	50932712	R3MFCJPL6OQ1MI	0890964661	806425469	The American Crow & Common Raven (W. L. Moody Jr. Natural History Series)	Books	5	85	85	N	N	Don't forget the illustrations!	There are more than enough reasons to pick up this book if you have any interest in crows or birds in general or even seeing a good example of descriptive biological studies, however one point missed by others are the  beautiful illustrations in this volume that are well above average for a  science book.<br />There are very few books about Corvids, and even fewer  based on North American research, but this wonderful volume is a solid step  in the right direction that is both well informed while also personable,  leaving one to hope that future volumes or at least more research on these  birds will result.<br />Any Corvid enthusiasts should purchase this book  without hesitation as it is a relatively inexpensive and irreplacible  contribution to the literature.	2000-03-28
US	50932712	R3R610BFT18KOY	0808593374	253463069	Z for Zachariah	Books	5	85	95	N	N	Excellent YA book, but may reveal more at later readings...	Z for Zachariah was one I wasn't that impressed by at age 10 when I first read it (or about there), but years down the road (in college) a reread completely changed my mind about this book, and about the goals O'Brien had  set about to accomplish with it.  I've always been a fan of O'Brien, so I  can't say I had completely written the book off, but this much later  reading revealed some things that I think only the most perceptive young  readers are going to pick up on, which is unfortunate because it really is  a book for them.<br />Starting with the most superficial, I am probably more  impressed here with O'Brien's writing than anywhere else.  O'Brien  purposely drenches the story in detail, allowing the reader to pause and  contemplate the strangely serene post-apocolypse environment.  This of  course is a tool--O'Brien uses Biblical allegory throughout (for the  purpose of the story, not for the purpose of the proliferation of  religion), and this entire scenario with the beautiful valley that cannot  be left is all too obviously a cousin to the garden of eden.<br />This  surprising immersion in the pastoral setting (of what is apparently the end  of the world) is equally matched by the strong and vital voice of Ann  Burdan, who like the scenery stands in sharp contrast to death--a contrast  that I think sets this entire book in motion.<br />I for one found Ann's voice  is what made the book work.  Through sincerity and an honest analysis of  her feelings we are propelled into the heart of the story, which is not so  much about nuclear bombs but about 'growing up -as- epic adventure' (Henke,  Children't lit in Education, Summer 82).<br />As a young reader, I think I  only saw the surface of this story which is not in of itself very  compelling--a man comes into the valley, a relationship develops, the man  becomes deranged and starts hunting the girl, so the girl leaves.  The  story however is much more than this.  It is actually all about the last  two chapters.  It is about Ann -not- killing Mr. Loomis.  It is about Ann's  evolution as she moves from a child that can only consider life in the  valley to confronting the entire world--one which seems dead and hopeless.   The message finally is an uplifting but difficult one which does not try to  make the burden (Burdan--clever?) of growing up any less grim.  Today's  young people are going to be faced by a world full of 'deadness', or  perhaps a world that seems to have gone insane (this premise was carried  out well in the animated film Princess Mononoke, another great YA work.)   It is a great effort to bring Ann's innocent voice into a world that would  gladdly stomp it out, and yet Z for Zachariah leads us to believe that this  is the very challenge of growing up, and makes strong argument for  investing in the dreams of young people for tomorrow.	2000-03-23
US	50932712	R2ZWSH6IBDMW3S	0253213134	362058036	The Complete Dinosaur (Life of the Past)	Books	5	53	53	N	N	Definitive dinosaur bible...for now...	Faced with all the problems of trying to make science interesting to kids, there is, nor will there ever be anything quite so universally exciting as dinosaurs.  But like any field of research, the outsider must suffer from  being just that--an outsider.  Without prior knowledge of the subject area  one can easily fill their heads with outdated or only periphrial knowledge.   What one needs is a good (up to date and user-friendly) source book, and  The Complete Dinosaurs is without doubt one of the primier resources for  both the outsider and insider on these ancient reptiles.<br />Although content  will require some basic knowledge of biology (and you will find refresher  material here as well--remember all your bones?), the chapters are for the  most part always interesting, and some reflect the unquestionable  enthusiasm of the authors.  One particular chapter on the use of multimedia  in cataloging and exchanging dinosaur data, while seemingly irrelevant to  folks who just want to know the name of a dinosaur, spoke volumes of  dedication and commitment to moving dinosaur finds from museum closets into  scientists hands around the world.  This level of enthusiasm does not  diminish through the book, making what would otherwise be a very heavy read  into something of a treat.<br />There are two or three other dinosaur books  that may be as definitive as this one, however from paging through 'The  Dinosauria' and 'The Dinosaur Encyclopedia', Farlow's books seemed the most  approachable/accessible, while also not shorting the reader on  content.<br />While this and the other dinosaur books mentioned might be a bit  challenging at times for readers who don't have a background in biology,  geology, paleontology, etc. (IE there is a lot of prior knowledge about  evolutionary theory that the reader is assumed to possess), I would still  not hestitate to recommend it to someone with a passion for  Dinosaurs...which should be about everyone by now, right?	2000-03-22
US	50932712	RSL729FVR20PY	0689710682	500045156	Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Still vital after nearly 30 years...	Children literature is rarely regarded as an important resource despite the singular ability of a good story to reach the the minds of millions of people and really make a difference.  Children literature especially can take a receptive young person to places that no amount of instruction or  even caring one on one time can replace, and that imagination, once sparked  is the fuel from which we all in later years cut our mark upon this  world.<br />Robert O'Brien was an author deeply committed to sparking that  imagination as best executed in his newbery award winning book, Mrs. Frisby  and the Rats of NIMH.  It is no wonder that the book is a favorite for the  classroom with english and science projects designed around its chapters.   Not a word of this book falls flat or rests upon the crutches of worn  genres; instead young readers will find that even from the first chapter  they are asking questions and by the end of the book they will find  themselves echoing the Frisby children who are left to wonder about some of  the books more mysterious elements.<br />More so, I think Mrs. Frisby works  because ultimately Robert was a very sympathetic author who moved beyond  just the need to tell a good story to investing in his readers.  Few  children will feel uninvolved by Mrs. Frisby's plight, and most will also  find themselves very sympathetic to the rats of the story.  But Robert also  imbues his story with ethical delimmas, and this--if anything--is the heart  of the story and of O'Brien's writing.  And these questions or delimmas are  what have remained relevant to a new and vital to a new generation; nothing  else could possible have sparked the imagination so.<br />To wrap this up,  Mrs. Frisby is a thoughtful and sophisticated animal fantasy that will  reach most children (3-7th grade) and entertaining their parents as well.   A highly memorable tale as are O'Brien's other books.	2000-03-14
US	50932712	R14N0QVSOKYGXI	0394701577	166497014	The Immense Journey: An Imaginative Naturalist Explores the Mysteries of Man and Nature	Books	5	29	32	N	N	A scientist to be proud of...	It is unfortunate that although words such as 'bioethics' exist, the dichotomy is still firmly entrenched in our minds that scientists are funny little people in lab coats and the folks who write about ethics and values in relation to science (or worse show a passion for their topic that  extends beyond what can be paraphrased in a theorem or hypthothesis) are  not of equal calibre.  Perhaps this is because so many ecological tretises  do ultimately degrade into special pleading, but for whatever reason, Loren  Eisely was a man both deeply passionate about his work and simultaneously  an excellent scientist, assisted by a multidisciplinary background in  anthropology, geology and biology.  <br />Eisely is never afraid to let you  know what his feelings are, even when they move into the realms of  extrascientific (Wallace's suggestion that the evolution of traits was  directed by God, such that they appear in a species BEFORE needed), never  shorting himself or the scientific community.  This middle of the road  tactic allows for the foundation of 'The Immense Journey', Eiseley's most  well known book, and among one of the most compelling reads in  Biology.<br />The book itself is an examination of the mystery of life, a  question that Eisely himself cannot quantify, yet clearly it motivates him  throughout.  His method of elucidation is to start with some  observation--one which may at first seem less than shocking, yet his  thoughts  reflect upon this observation, casting the reader forth in a sea  of wonder.  We are left to contemplate why gophers declined when they might  instead have become kings of the plains and kept the monkeys at bay, the  finding of ancient human (?) skulls with larger brain pans than our own,  why aliens would in all likelihood not resemble human beings or any other  life on this planet, the evolutionary significance of language, the  erroneous pitdown man, and many, far more personal introspections.  This is  ultimately a book of 'what if's' instead of a book of answers--answers that  would so many years down the road no doubt be dated.  The questions  though...they are still as valid as ever.<br />To wrap this up then, Eisely  was a thoughtful and passionate scientist who also had a tremendous gift  for writing (at times one is left wishing he had written some fiction.)   His imagery is unforgettable, as is the whole book.  Students of biology  (if not everyone) will be forced to address the material in a new way, not  simply because Eisely makes some exellent points but because he had above  all else, the gift to make people ask questions for themselves.  I cannot  think what other attribute makes a better scientist.	2000-03-13
US	50932712	R1OQ5H0T19NX5L	0689104456	890954560	A Report from Group 17	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Another lost work by O'Brien	Although only writing four books, O'Brien displayed a unique talent for imaginative and sensitive writing that is still relevent and captivating 30 years later.  It is extremely unfortunate that both this and his other lost  work (The Silver Crown) are out of print, as the four books together blend  thematically to give the best overview you are going to get of this  important, yet mysterious US author. As to Report itself, although  functionally a fantastic book, it is probably the least of the four simply  because it borrows so heavily from its predecessor Mrs. Frisby, such that  it seems as though he might have merely rewritten his newbery award winning  classic as an adult novel.  However, this is not really the case.  Instead,  Report gives a fuller view of that same body of invention that also  produced Mrs. Frisby, such that while certain ideas would not have worked  effectively within children's literature, they work to amazing success in  this sci-fi/espionage thriller (if one can really classify this book.)<br />As  to the story itself, it does show O'Brien at the peak of his writing with  vulnerable yet brave characters, a fascinating plot centering around the  possibility of biological warfare (though this is not political, the  characters are scientists, not politicians or generals), and O'Brien's  favorite theme of humanity struggling against the constant threat of  dehumanization via technology.<br />Again, this is not his best book, but  everything O'Brien put out was significant--and while some of his other  books have as stronger message, this one is a great and satisfying romp  through what is mostly familiar terrain.	2000-03-06
US	50932712	RV7RXOZFAFIU1	0691097755	32359461	Symbols of Transformation (Collected Works of C.G. Jung, Volume 5)	Books	4	129	132	N	N	A very challenging classic.	Historically, Symbols of Transformation was not only the book in which Jung delcared his split with Freud but also became later a sort of litmus test to see just how well people could deal with the depth psychology  literature--which is to say, Symbols of Transformation is a very  overwhelming read.  Jung's ideas are brilliant but the volume could use  significant editing or perhaps reduce more of his page long excercizes in  etymology or other mental wanderings to footnotes (as though there were not  already pages upon pages of footnotes!)  It is tempting to think that Jung  is showing off however one must remember the challenge he felt himself  under and the certainty with which his peers would reject him.  I cannot  think of a book that more deserves cliff notes, and yet, when it is all  said and done, his premise is staggering and no less elegant than Darwin's  theory of species diversification.  The notion that those energies which  feed the libido and spirituality flow from the same pool or are perhaps the  same thing altogether, comes as startling but is only the beginning of a  long narrative Jung unravels that leaves mankind forever linked with his  mythic past, spirituality recognized as an essential part of the human  psychology.  But this is where cliff notes would make a nice addition (or  some sort of chapter summary) because the implications go on and on and on  and on.  I don't think you can read this and be unchanged because so many  ideas are raised that the creative mind is at once set in motion, and soon  you'll find new ideas creeping into your awareness that were never there  before, and are not really contained within this book either.<br />Although I  would not suggest Transformations to any and everyone, it is as important  as any other critical landmark in the development of modern psychology and  even the philosophy of our entire species.  If you are a person who wishes  to confront those ideas of what it means to be a human being and whowishes  to meet one of the great 20th century intellectuals in his own territory  (instead of all those 2nd and 3rd hand sources), I strongly recommend  giving this book a try.  Just don't expect an easy or even agreeable read;  Jung is if nothing else always challenging.	1999-12-08
US	50932712	R3EECWTK4JDU4M	0253335868	751156499	A Russell Hoban Omnibus	Books	5	52	53	N	Y	Omnibus begs second volume	If you are at all in any way a fan of Russell Hoban, there is no question that you need to purchase this volume.  Contained are a good helping of his adult novels (one never published in America), as well as several of the  short stories that appeared in his book 'The Moment Under the Moment' (also  never published domestically), a sampling of his poetry (same fate as the  former), and some amazing entries from his children's work, notably The  Marzipan Pig (out of print), and the incomplete 'Manny Rat' (formerly  unpublished.)  All in all, for $30 this is the prize you've been waiting  for.  With every entry in this volume either out of print or unpublished,  the Hoban Omnibus is probably one of the easiest way to beef up your Hoban  library while avoiding the cost of importing the books. On the other hand,  omissions must be mentioned because they are rather glaring.  Although  Indiana University has been good enough to include Hoban's first adult  novel, the exclusion of 'The Mouse and his Child' (Hoban's first novel of  any kind, and no less brilliant than any of his other efforts) is perhaps  the greatest fault I can attribute to this volume.  Likewise, Medusa  Frequency, Kleinzeit and Fremder are all absent and one tends to wonder why  they were not included.  Fremder most of all could use a US release, while  Medusa and Kleinzeit don't seem to have done anything to have deserved the  oversight.  Medusa in particular is perhaps among Hoban's most brilliant  pieces, and at a length of not much more than 100 pages, its inclusion  would have been a simple thing.  Still, who is to say why certain things  made it, and others got the axe?  That's Indiana University's business,  still, this is one reader who hopes they'll consider a second  volume.<br />Following is a list of contents, since Amazon has not included  it: (stolen directly from the unofficial Russell Hoban  page)<br />NOVELS:<br />The Lion of Boaz-Jachin and Jachin-Boaz, Turtle Diary,  Pilgermann, Mr Rinyo-Clacton's Offer (This, of course, marks the first U.S.  publication for Mr Rinyo-Clacton!)<br />SHORT STORIES [these were all  originally included in The Moment Under the Moment]: The Man with the  Dagger, My Night with Léonie, The Raven, Dream Woman, Dark Oliver, The  Ghost Horse of Genghis Khan<br />ESSAYS [both from The Moment Under the  Moment]: 'I, that was a child, my tongue's use sleeping...', With a Choked  Cry<br />POEMS [these were all originally included in The Last of the  Wallendas]: 03:00 Abroad,<br />Crystal Maze, The Owl-Woman, Turtle Prince?,  Fred to Samantha, Dragon into Dressing-Gown, The Hippogriff, What the Fairy  Said to the Bibliophile, The Dragon underneath the Mat,<br />LITERATURE FOR  CHILDREN (AND DISCERNING ADULTS): The Marzipan Pig, The Adventures of Manny  Rat [incomplete, abandoned sequel to The Mouse and His Child]	1999-11-23
US	50932712	R1EYGPL4Q8LG6E	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	3	49	61	N	N	'Best' of Lovecraft misleading.	I believe another reviewer has already stated that what is contained in this volume seems closer to a most 'accessible' Lovecraft collection than a best of, although the inclusion of pieces such as the Silver Key does give  this volume a higher ratio of excellent stories than the  clearly-not-best-of Transitions volume also published by Del Ray.  What is  missing here are the two mature works, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, The  Dream Quest of Unknown Kaddath and (my particular favorite) At the  Mountains of Madness.  It is difficult to consider this volume to represent  the best Lovecraft when it instead seems to (especially in the first few  stories) represent the most generic Lovecraft.  Some of the man's best and  most imaginative stories are not to be found here, but to give the volume  credit, it is certainly a well balenced collection with no genuinely weak  stories (though the second one--called something like 'the picture in the  house' or something like that, is so absurdly predictable that it is hard  to understand how it made it into this volume. On another note, upon recent  rereading, I must agree with the introduction that appears in the Arkham  house Dagon volume, in which the author (I cannot recall his name) states  boldly that Lovecraft's horror has not aged well, while his science fiction  and fantasy--especially his fantasy--still feels quite inspired and  original.  But readers of this volume will miss out on most of Lovecraft's  fantasy.  What they will get instead are pieces like the Dunwich horror,  which as the century closes reads more like a potential script idea for a B  film made by the likes of Roger Coreman.  If we cannot laugh at the  invisible monster as it knocks down trees and eats cows in the backwater  community of Dunwich, then we must certainly laugh at the 'action  scientists' who seem to be trained in at least 5 different fields and who  are reluctant to bring in other help as they alone can protect the earth  from the strange invisible monster! I do enjoy Lovecraft tremendously, but  there are as many odd things to laugh at as there are trully brilliant  things--most of which stem from those things the man thought beautiful and  wonderous, not his monsters. To wrap this up then, is Lovecraft the  greatest horror author of the 20th century?  Well I'll certainly take him  over the other hacks who have written in this area, but for all those who  seem to think that everything that Lovecraft accomplished was creating the  Cthulu mythos and the Necronomicon, I strongly suggest looking beyond the  monsters and see what the man was trying to say about the nature of  consciousness and those who feel drawn inexplicable to those things  mysterious and beautiful whose unearthly source is as intangible as are the  passing images of dreams.  Lovecraft seems forever to be an author  frustrated with communicating that sense of wonder, and in frustration was  born Cthulu and all the other horrors; creative works, but not the  essential idea of Lovecraft.	1999-11-18
US	50932712	R6CLRYCHZLU1V	0224013971	710067334	La Corona and the Tin Frog	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Not to be missed by anyone! (no matter how old)	At age 27, one feels a bit odd reviewing a picture book, but fans of Hoban will be forced to throw all preconceptions about literature aside and go wherever the man's wanderings lead.  In this case, he's snuck all his  brilliance into what might appear as a harmless picture book about  toys--yes very quickly all the familiar themes from Mouse and his Child  begin to show up, and quite soon the story becomes almost mythical, with  everything centering around that magic moment at precisely midnight, before  the bells of the old clock have rung.  The story is at first fragmentary  but then these fragments join together, the multiple stories intertwining.   In some ways, the book is really quite odd, because while the clock is  ticking, the world of these toys is quite dead, spent either deep in  thought/longing or in total inactivity, but when time has stopped (or that  instant before midnight) that the toys can persue their dreams.  Unlike  myths where the 'real world' is born out of a timelesss age, the toys world  comes into existance when time stops.  The entire book is wonderful and if  it were actually available I would purchase it without hesitation.  As it  stands, pray that your library has a copy.  A book for everyone!	1999-09-17
US	50932712	R2BLCB25A192LM	0679881484	868190901	The Trokeville Way	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Trokeville is the bridge to Fremder's terrifying 'otherness'	With no US company willing to publish an adult book by Hoban, it has become increasingly difficult to follow the path of his creative wanderings.  With each book he seems to proceed further, but as to the  destination of that motion, who can say?  After Hoban's `The Medusa  Frequency' it seems we have a long space of blackness before `Fremder'  turns up, only published in the UK.  But before `Fremder', he apparently  wrote the children's book 'Trokeville' which along with Robert O'Brien's  Silver Crown is probably one of the most disturbing books I have read in  the genre.  Of course, Hoban admits that children need to be challenged,  and he really doesn't pull any punches with Trokeville.  In a sense, this  harkens back to `Mouse and his Child' which he did not write for children,  but became marketed as a children's book.  To me at least, `Trokeville'  also reads like a book Hoban simply found in his head, and which  subsequently was marketed for kids.  People who do not understand Hoban  (such as the review provided by Amazon that compares `Trokeville' to `The  Princess Bride') will mistake `Trokeville' as simply a very dingy fantasy  with a lot of humor that doesn't work, but a reading of anything Hoban has  written since (and including) Riddley Walker will give firm evidence that  this is not the case.  Hoban is once again writing about consciousness and  the consciousness that lies outside of the realms of the limited consensus  of reality.  He is writing about fear, and the whole duality of beauty  emerging out of fear that he described so wonderfully in the `Medusa  Frequency'. I do not know if this is really a very good book for kids, yet  here is this danger of underestimating children (or teens).  I have given  the book a four star rating because that is where it stands with me, the  feeling being one of an intermediate step between his serious books.  If  you are a Hoban fan this is definitley worth a read, especially at the  cheap domestic price.  For those who don't know anything about Hoban, find  `Mouse and his Child' if you can (for young readers--though I like it too)  or any of his adult books which I prefer to `Trokeville'.	1999-09-09
US	50932712	R1F32OAN3FBLUJ	0486286118	177050708	The Wonderful Adventures of Nils (Dover Children's Classics)	Books	4	53	55	N	N	A classic stumbled upon accidentally.	Though this story easily deserves 5 stars, it suffers slightly due to the author's agenda (she was commissioned to write a geography book for children). Knowing this, it is easy to hurl criticism at those chapters  that seem to exist solely for the purpose of education. Nonetheless, once  this minor fault (and I am not really sure you can call it a fault) is  recognized, the story of Nils is a fantastic one, seemingly not at all  distant from native folklore and fairy tales, rich with an earthiness that  simply doesn't exist in modern children literature. Of course, Lagerlof  does more then simply make a modern day fairy-tale. There are passages here  that are simply too delightful for description; one which comes to mind is  a gathering of all the animals to celebrate the coming of spring--the image  and significance crafted by the author are bound to stay with the reader  for a life-time. I haven't read anything else by Lagerlof, and only found  this book by accident at a local vendor. If I have any complaint it is that  Dover does not offer the sequel to this work (at this writing anyway),  though apparently another publisher offers it at a much higher price. I  think anyone who enjoys folktales/folklore and whimsical animal fantasies  (I.E. Wind in the Willows, the Moomin books, etc.) will find this book very  rewarding and enjoy the opportunity to read an unknown classic (in Sweden,  Nils actually appears on their money!)	1999-09-01
US	50932712	RHXI4B93RM4DO	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This book needs to be longer!	I would like to believe that Melville was years (maybe centuries) ahead of his time, but more than likely he was just plain nuts, apparently stalking Hawthorne and who knows what else. This shouldn't stop you from enjoying  the fun though! In MD we basically have two ideas going on, with Ahab's  whole monomaniac pursuit of the whale bookending hundreds of pages that  essentially capture Ishmael's (sun)baked thoughts during his three years or  so on board the Pequid. This middle section will either bore and repel the  reader, or suck them in, resembling some post modern-ish films like  Satyricon, or perhaps the writings of some lost beat author.  This middle  section is a detailed narrative of every thought that strikes Ishmael's  mind as he is immersed in what must be a remarkably dull setting. So  instead, his mind wanders, seeing analogies in every bit of rope and whale  tissue to the relationship between man and God, man and nature, man in  society, etc. The idea is so absurd and executed so bombastically that it  works. Had the man he dedicated this book to (Nathaniel Hawthorne) wrote MD  instead, it would have been awful, but Melville can write about Ahab's pipe  with enthusiasm, and put that very same pipe into a mythic perspective! Of  the outer story, what is there left to say? Only an American author could  take the standard tragedy of man bested by the fates and turn it into man  bested by the fates/decides to hunt down and kill God! An absolutely  fantastic and unforgettable book, but I would have enjoyed more ramblings  from Ishmael. I'm serious!!!	1999-08-24
US	50932712	R3NEBZK512IV7H	0838633390	943273509	Through the Narrow Gate: The Mythological Consciousness of Russell Hoban	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fascinating but all too brief Hoban analysis.	If Hoban fans want to learn about the author there are three ways to do it--the first being the web site, but even that will lead you to the books.  The most informative and interesting book about Hoban is his own 'Moment  under the Moment' but this is unfortunately out of print.  Through the  Narrow Gate is your next best bet, but what most of the book focuses on is  not Hoban himself but Wilke's analysis of Hoban's books, laden in depth  psychology and the general Bollingen school of thought.  The author's  conclusions seem right on the mark, but I can't imagine too many Hoban fans  who would find this sort of thing all that rewarding.  The best thing here  is an interview by Wilke of Hoban, and it is one of the best reviews I have  read of him.  I don't know if the cost is justifiable unless you must  simply own any and everything related to Hoban.  Clearly this was written  for academic purposes alone, and outside of whatever field Wilke is in  (Jungian study of literature???), her points, no matter how true, did not  seem to further my understanding of Hoban.  Still, it was a fun read.	1999-08-02
US	50932712	R2RQFJI92K0OFR	022403314X	147385958	Moment Under the Moment - stories, a libretto, essays and Sketches	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A must for those who wish to know more about Russell Hoban	Like most of Hoban's other work, this book is both out of print and very hard to find even by the usual methods of obtaining used books.  A real pitty given that 'Moment' is a unique entry in Hoban's collective output.   Putting several short stories, a liberetto and several essays all under one  cover, 'Moment' works like an overview.  While each of his books seems to  stress a particular theme that has gotten under his skin for that  particular outing, 'Moment' is the whole idea of Hoban.  The short stories  are representative of most of his adult writing, often showing how certain  thought patterns evolved into his longer works, while the essays, which are  passionately written, really put you inside Mr. Hoban's head and are often  of historical and biographical interest (as well as simply being  fascinating to read).  After reading 'Moment', I find that it an important  companion piece to his other work, and am greatly dissapointed that it is  so hard to acquire.  To make up for this however, Indiana press will be  publishing parts of 'Moment' in the Hoban Omnibus due Dec 99.	1999-08-02
US	50932712	R12O1EU8AGJTGA	0374453071	295058101	Moominpappa's Memoirs (Moomins)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Not a good introduction, but still among one of the best!	After Moominsummer madness, Tove Jannson slipped into a more subtle and even philosophical vein (that is, more philosophical then the first three books), however, Memoirs (formerly Exploits of Moominpapa) returns to the  more slapstick antics of her early book.  Although I am a fan of all of  these books, Memoirs was a welcome return to that earlier style, though it  in itself is a unique entry in the series. In Memoirs, Moominpapa is both a  wonderfully adorable character as well as a characture or himself, filled  with pride, egotism, and prejudice--making him all the more human. The  story itself is almost a parody of the big rolling adventure tales, full of  various fantastic happenings, and culminating in Moominpapa's dilemma: to  following his adventuring instinct, or another instinct that drives him to  build moominhouses with moomin verandahs, etc etc... The end is as happy as  finn family moomintroll, maybe even happier--completely over the top.   Although this shouldn't be the first moominbook to read (since knowledge of  the characters is pretty central to the humor here) it is nonetheless one  of the most uplifting books in the series and I can't recommend it more!!!	1999-05-15
