US	50933459	RJ5421K39QKGP	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Long, Long Story..............	There is just so much in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's Pulitzer winning novel that it is difficult to just begin to review it.  Macondo, a magical village where time does not exist in the real sense is the center of this novel.  We follow the lives of the Buendia family from the beginning of their lives in Macondo to the very bitter end.  Marquez uses magical realism to describe the characters, events and surroundings in this novel; it rains for five years, there are mystical gypsies that come and go, people are assigned superhuman powers, butterflies appear when characters arrive, there is even an ascension..and that's just the beginning.  There is so much in this book that it tends to become confusing and laborious reading at times.  I was fascinated by the characters they are  rich and quirky but exhausted by the amount of events that took place. What is interesting to note is that many of the side stories in this book come from Marquez's own life and the history of Columbia.  There are so many themes and statements that at times the reader is overwhelmed just thinking of all the implications.  I loved the style of the writing and the thought of reading this classic, but when it came right down to it, it was a task that took alot of time and effort and in the end was only mildly satisfying.	2004-10-12
US	50933459	R1AKVRCTWE4CIF	0743255224	885806162	Name All the Animals: A Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Poignant Story ....	Alison Smith's memoir, Name All the Animals, is wonderful. It is not often that a writer can depict so much beauty through their words that you feel as if you are experiencing what they are going through.  Smith is able to use the subject of her life at a particularly painful time and transport the reader through her imagery to feel her and her parents pain, confusion, struggle and resolution as a result of her brother's death.  The memoir begins with the fifteen year old Smith, discovering her 18 year old brother Roy  has just died in a car accident.  Everything is conveyed in such a clear, honest sense that you can easily imagine yourself in the families  place, walking around on automatic just trying to grasp the enormity of the situation.  Every member of the family deals with Roy's death in a different way, but all are clearly devastated. In this sense, the novel recounts without judgement how her parents focused on dealing with their son's death and as a result went to some extreme measures to protect her from the entire story and at the same time ignored alot of her signals for help. This in no way diminishes her admiration or devotion to her parents and her descriptons of their childhoods and courtship is particularly touching.  On top of everything is the additional burden of going through adolescence during this traumatic time and we read about the measures Alison takes to keep Roy's memory alive.  Much of the poignancy in this novel centers on Smith's relationships in highschool with her first crush, friends and the nuns at the Catholic School.  As she approaches the end of her teenage years, her adulthood is marked with the acceptance of her brother's death and her decision to live and move on with her life.  It is just a wonderfully written and touching story and I hope to see more work by Alison Smith.	2004-10-05
US	50933459	R11KYW5HGXLTIQ	0399151613	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Slow Start But Satisfying Finish	This novel chronicles the lives of several Californian women and the one man who make up the Jane Austen Book Club.  I found this book tedious at first, not as I expected it, the characters dull.  As I continued to read each chapter which is a new month of book club meetings, the characters begin to develop in a richer and more interconnected sense.  The discussions of the Austen books are the background for the turmoil, heartbreak, triumphs and insights into these peoples lives.  In particular is the character Allegra, a loudly out of the closet lesbian, who by far has the most interesting life and most poignant things to say.  Grigg the one male character, adds alot of charm to the women's group as he plugs away with his comments on Austen and life which slowly become accepted by the group of women, even though he is also a lover of science fiction. The characters of Jocelyn and Sylvia are well developed and their friendship touching.  Prudie is by far the most underdeveloped character and Bernadette the most boring.  As the book moves on, I became more attached to the characters and more interested in thier foibles and takes on life.  I am puzzeled by the sensation caused by this book, as in my opinion, it is an interesting story  but stops well short of anything amazing.	2004-09-23
US	50933459	R37U6IZY65H8EF	0971129703	402795410	Operation Terra: Messages from the Hosts of Heaven: A New Revelation on Earth Changes, ETs, the End Times, and the Journey to the New Earth, Terra, Vol. 1	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Interesting Thoughts On Our Future...	Sara Lyara Estes channels the Hosts of Heaven and in this volume, which I picked up at the public library, are the messages she received from 1999-2001.  The majority of the information contained in the messages really resonated with me.  But like any material, channeled or not, it is up to the reader to determine if some, all or any of the information  appeals to them.  Although  I found,at times, the messages to be fear based as in the  references to impending doom, I found most of the information helpful. There is alot of attention paid to the clearing of the emotional body, changes in our DNA, and the different reality scenarios for earth's population.  The descriptions of fourth dimensional reality on Terra was particularly interesting to me.  The main messages I got from these channelings were to ALLOW the changes, stay heart centered and realize that all have their place, all is in its place and all have made choices at a soul level as to which experience they choose.  I am looking forward to reading Volume Two.	2004-09-20
US	50933459	R2B0KHTRC773YN	0805056645	856506400	Are You Somebody?: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Brutally and Beautifully Honest.......	Nuala O'Faolain's memoir is not particulary easy to read.  It starts slowly with the history of her young years and family.  It's difficult to read about her parent's relationship and the neglect and desperation felt by the family, especially the nine children.  O'Faolain is so honest about her own shortcomings and dysfunctions at first it's hard to like her but how we admire her.  She chronicles the historical context of Ireland from the 1950's through the 1990's with special emphasis on the role of women and the enormous societal changes in just the few short years between those decades.  It is interesting to read her commentary on the social structure and roles of men and women as it emerged through this time period.  The books strength though is not in O'Faolain's ability to chronicle history, that at times is vague  with alot of names and places that may not be familiar to those outside of Europe. It is within this historical context  that she continually points out her lack of grounding or purpose as a young adult.  She floats from job to job--relationship to relationship without much thought to the consequences of her actions.  It is not until she reaches a personal crisis at her parents death that she acknowledges the destructive role alcohol plays in her life, the repeating of familial patterns and the aimless way she has existed. It is then that she begins to emerge as a different and more intorspective person.  The book begins to take on a different tone and we come to love the person that is Nuala O'Faolain.  We have read about her struggles and see her becoming more than the wounds she has suffered in life.  It is beautiful. At the end of the story she shares the letters from so many people who were moved and related to her life story. She continues to assert that she did nothing remarkable in writing what for her simply had to come out.  But we the reader know that something special has passed here and can only stand back and admire a woman as brave as Nuala O'Faolain who has put down on paper the whole truth that is her life.Nuala O'Faolain who has put down on paper the whole truth that is her life.	2004-08-24
US	50933459	R1NF0X14EZYA1V	1401903096	723415117	Mother God	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Scattered Introduction to an Important Topic.....	As a reader of several Sylvia Browne books, in my opinion this is not one of the better written books.  Although, I applaud the topic of the  Feminine Divine Principle, it's history and current place in society it just isn't covered well in this book.  Information is scattered and patched together from many different sources and put together in a \\"hodge podge\\" way.  The Feminine Divine is a huge topic that can't possibly be squeezed into a small book and be done well.  What the book does offer is; Sylvia's entertaining style, an introduction to the history of the goddess in different cultures, websites for more information and Ms. Browne's \\"take\\" on the Mother God Anza.  It is a simplistic yet heartfelt introduction to a topic that I hope to see much more of.	2004-08-23
US	50933459	RD3K6QBKQ4801	0525947566	188482091	Visits from the Afterlife	Books	3	39	41	N	N	Thought Provoking......	Having read several of Sylvia Browne's books, this is another one that is an easy to read, entertaining account of Sylvia's experiences.  She again gives readers her interpretations of hauntings, spirit visitation , imprints, and all kinds of stuff in between.  This is territory that is revisited by Browne, but is presented in a way that is review rather than redundant.  What was especially good, were the numerous accounts sent in by readers who share their unique experiences both good, bad and mysterious.  Our life is so much more than we can perceive with our limited senses and it is a pleasure to read about these aspects beyond ordinary sight.  According to Sylvia Browne, visits from the afterlife, in whatever form are absolutely normal in her world as well as in many others as evidenced from her letters.  I  appreciate her straightforward, honest and humorous style.  She is not trying to prove something but rather deliver her experiences to the reader in an interesting and insightful manner.  Some stories are chilling, some sad and some joyful.  We all have had sometime in our life when we have questioned life after death and Sylvia delivers convincing truth through her words and the many stories of people who contributed to the book.  A thought provoking account.<br /><br />.	2004-08-16
US	50933459	R55I3NSYZBG8Q	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Stunning!	Tim O'Brien has written a collection of stories with such realism and stunning insight it is hard to put down.  He is a fine writer who translates his experience from the Vietnam War into truly heartbreaking and exhilarating stories.  I have seldom come across a writer who can make the words jump off the page in the way that O'Brien can.  It is one of the finest collection of stories that I have ever read.  Although O'Brien asserts that it is fiction, time and time again we are brought back to  actual truths that are presented by the fictional characters and as O'Brien states \\"the truth can be ugly.\\"  Through the stories, the reader comes to know the men of the Alpha Company and in doing so has the priveldge of experiencing their triumphs, insights and pain. As we see in some of the stories sometimes those who died in the war were better off than those who survived.  The Vietnam War, took it's toll emotionally, physically and spiritually on the men who fought in it  and on our nation.  Thank God, we have someone like Tim O'Brien who can chronicle the reality of that experience.	2004-08-11
US	50933459	R3Q3ZOJT0WHZV6	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Disappointment....	Again another novel that falls victim to media hype..It is unfair I feel to compare this novel to the Davinci Code.  It is not the DaVinci Code and in so comparing the two sets up the reader for a certian expectation that falls very wide of its mark.  This novel is much less concerned with &quot;thrilling&quot; the reader than gently bringing the reader into the world of four friends from Princeton.  It is reminiscent of Donna Tartt's novel Secret History with it's focus on college students, their friendships and eccentric academics who have no morals.  But the storyline is where the similarities stop because the writing pales in comparison to Tartt's.  So what is this novel about?  It is a story about four college friends and their relationships. In the background the reader is led into the strange world of Paul who's years at Princeton are just about over and his all consuming project of deciphering the hidden meaning of the ancient text of the Hypernotomachia is drawing to a thrilling conclusion.  What ensues is somewhat engaging as we follow Paul's progress interspersed with boring recollections from Tom about why he should not fall prey to the obsession of the Hypernotomachia.  The reader is treated to several really exciting chapters that involve the actual solving of the riddles and the thought processes and physical ravages their obsession with solving the riddles bring on them.  In the end, this book is plagued with mediocre writing, a slow moving plot and a less than stellar ending and it is on the best seller list....I guess you never know.	2004-07-18
US	50933459	RQ9RMUOJ8WV70	0517598507	958683442	Why Me, Why This, Why Now: A Guide to Answering Life's Toughest Questions	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Compassionate Guide for Life's Questions	Robin Norwood offers her readers clear compassionate insight into the many purposes of life on earth.  The vignettes in this book open up a range of possibilities for rethinking any circumstance in your life.  A death is seen as an agreement that has been made to fufill a karmic bond and when seen through this light, the circumstances can be viewed with a different understanding that perhaps allows more peace.  A personality trait or skill that a person posesses may be the main issue the soul has chosen to work on in this life to evolve and expand. A relationship that causes great grief may be the perfect reflection of where we are wounded and helps to &quot;wake us up.&quot;  Life on earth is all about learning, evolving and expanding. There are no bad experiences when seen in this light, it is all perfect and always evolving.  Every experience moves us into the next phase of our evolvement and if we can recognize where we are wounded by our experiences and move past the wound we can choose not to experience that circumstance again.  A really beautiful, helpful and insightful book.	2004-07-11
US	50933459	RLDPQGITAKME7	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Enjoyable but not my favorite in the series	I have had the pleasure of reading all five installments of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency successively over the past couple of weeks.  It was a great way to compare the books to each other while the prior one is still fresh in the memory.  I enjoyed this one the least of the five book series.  It is still an enjoyable read with all the characters that we have come to know and love in Precious Ramotswe's world but this book seemed to have less focus and was less compelling.  The writing remains superb, as McCall Smith elegantly describes the African landscape and the unique &quot;old Botswana&quot; way of looking at life.  He continues making commentaries on life and society, especially the interactions between women and men through the musings of the central characters.  In this story, mystery and the solving of the mysteries seems to take a backseat to the personal lives of the characters and we are focused on Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni and his reluctance to get married as well as other problems that arise. The main mystery involves Mma Holonga a rich salon chain owner who is looking for a husband who is not only interested in her money.  As usual the character of Mma Makutsi, adds a humorous as well as insightful touch to the plot.  I would not recommend that this be the first book you read in the series as the characters are well established by now and the reader would miss the nuances portrayed in the story.  In all, an enjoyable book but not my favorite in the series.	2004-07-08
US	50933459	R1DK0CXBJF47YN	037542217X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men: More from the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoy with a steaming cup of red bush tea......	In Alexander McCall Smith's latest installment, the reader is once again treated to the unfolding life of Mma Ramotswe and the cast of characters that make up the world of the No. 1 Ladies Dectective Agency.  In this story Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni has recovered from his debiltating depression and lends a wonderful richness to the storyline.  His character as always is understated and charming and we wonder when the the engaged couple will actually get married.  Mma Makutsi figures prominently in the plot and not only does the reader get to know her character more deeply but McCall Smith is able  through her musings make several profound comments on the state of women in society today.  A new dectective who is both arrogant and inept is introduced and it plays nicely in a humorous way  against the womens thoughts about their place in soceity.  Mma Ramotswe's primary case involves a successful man who wishes to atone for his past errors and in doing so is able to move on with his life.  This is easy enjoyable reading, with beautiful prose and descriptions of life in Botswana and thoughts on life that apply to us all. A pleasure!	2004-07-02
US	50933459	R1DVTMK904A748	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beautiful....3rd Installment	In the third installment of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Mma Ramotswe faces new challenges that give this book a slightly different twist.  In this story the focus seems to be more on the ever changing quality of Precious Ramotswe's life and the people in it rather than the cases that come into the agency.  I missed Mr. J.L.B. Maketoni and his quiet gentleness in this book, as he was indisposed throughout most of the story with a mysterious illness. Mma Makutsi and her new job as the manager of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors and assistant detective figure prominently in the storyline.  The reader learns more about her personal life, what drives her and her unique thoughts on the state of society especially the status of women. The mysteries are less obvious and a little less satisfying when resolved.  What the reader is given is some beautiful philosophicial prose on the nature of the human condition as Mme Ramtoswe and Mme Matkusi each ponder the intricacies of their cases.  I enjoyed this book, although somewhat different.  Perhaps, as a reader  I must come to  expect that each book in the series is unique in its own way.  McCall Smith has again created a wonderful story that quietly interweaves the African culture, traditions and communities into a story that touches us no matter where we live.	2004-06-26
US	50933459	R32SG589IJRR9O	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Follow Up for the No. 1 Ladies Dectective Agency	Mma Ramotswe is at it again!  The No. 1 Ladies Dectective Agency has taken on some new and interesting cases.  In this story  things are not as clear cut as they seem and Precious Ramotswe ponders the morality of telling the truth, telling lies and in general the imperfection of the human condition.  Her insights into the psyche of human nature are all to true.  Alexander McCall Smith has again created a wonderful vignette of stories that delight the reader with their simple storyline, yet complex implications into the nature of women, men and children.  In this series we get to know several characters more intimately including, Precious Ramotse's fiance Mr. J.L.B. Maketoni.  He is a wonderfully rich character that adds much to the story and I am looking forward to reading future installments that include the evolvement of their relationship.  I am constantly enthralled by McCall Smith's description of the African continent and it's people and find these descriptions both heart warming and heart breaking.  It seems there are many changes ahead for Mma Ramotswe; a new family an assisant dectective and a new husband.  I look forward to the continuation of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency and the unique insights that Precious Ramotswe has for the readers.	2004-06-24
US	50933459	R1YKQ4FAVGXS5C	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Heart warming and Humorous	Mma Precious Ramotswe is not your typical  34 year old Botswanian woman.  She has her own house, her own detective agency and has no husband.  It is with pleasure that the reader is treated to her world and the beautiful descriptions of her native Africa.  Alexander McCall Smith has delivered a series of enjoyable vignettes in which the reader is witness to Mma Ramotswe's common sense and considerable intuition as she solves both large and small matters of mystery for the local community.  What makes the pages so enjoyable are the descriptions of the characters, local lands, traditions of the African people and the humor in which the mysteries are solved.  It is not often that an author can combine beautiful prose, well developed characters and humor in a simple story that touches the heart.  I look forward to reading the sequels.	2004-06-22
US	50933459	R2AV878HHG4V7E	0440234859	64473411	Losing Julia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Truly Beautiful	Jonathan Hull's novel Losing Julia was a pleasure to read. The main character, Patrick Delaney is an 81 year old WWI veteran who begins by reminiscing about his life.  The reader is treated to beautiful prose and the haunting and provactive questions Patrick asks himself.  &quot;Is it better to have loved and lost or never to have loved at all?&quot;  &quot;Is it better to have loved well for a short time or to let love grow and mature beyond that perfect phase of utter bliss?&quot;  These themes echo throughout the book as Patrick shares his memories from the war which are written with stunning insight and emotion laden detail by Hull.  I was lost in the descriptions of the battles and the terrible killing of the war.  That something so horrific could take place in our time is always hard to read about.  Yet the irony is that it was an event that made Patrick feel the most alive and at the same time killed him inside.  Patrick's relationships with his best friend Daniel, his lover Julia, his wife, his children and his friends from the nursing home are all bittersweet and well developed.  This story is a composite of one mans life, the choices he made, and the outcomes from those choices.  It couldn't be told in a more compelling and beautiful way.  A great novel.	2004-04-19
US	50933459	R21IGVEFXQN9HD	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Spellbinding	Eragon, whose name did throw me at first as in Aragorn of LOTR fame is a great beginning fantasy book.  If you are a young adult looking for an introduction into the world of fantasy, this is a wonderful book to begin with.  I enjoyed the fast paced story with the mystical quality of the characters; Eragon the farm boy who is more than he seems, Brom the mysterious old man who turns out to be the mentor, Saphira the blue scaled dragon and the list goes on.  Paolini has written a book that is easy to follow with dialogue that is good, but sophmoric and perfect for young adults.  It is quite an accomplishment that this author began this book at age 15 years old!  The one problem with this story is that much of it is \\"lifted\\" from other profound and great works of fantasy fiction.  I'm stating it positively and saying it's a tribute to the great authors that so many plot themes are repeated (...) Beyond that, I truly enjoyed this well thought out, imaginative and exciting story of the farm boy who becomes a hero.  Looking forward to reading the next installments!	2004-03-27
US	50933459	R2JWVK0QPZUTCI	0812969812	955709915	Blessings: A Novel (Random House Reader's Circle)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Life is more than what it seems	Blessings is the third Anna Quindlen novel that I've read and enjoyed.  She is such an eloquent writer with accurate descriptions of the silent suffering and happiness that occurs in the human psyche.  I enjoyed this story of Lydia Blessing and Skip Cuddy who through the nuturing and love of an abandoned baby girl make an usual &quot;family.&quot;  Much of the story takes place in a bittersweet remembering that occurs in Lydia's mind as she reviews the last eighty years of her life.  The reader is touched as Lydia remembers both the pleasures and pains of being a Blessing.  She once again feels the sadness of her mother's rejection and her subsequent treatment of her own daughter.  The sorrow from her brothers death and the realization of her naivete.  The baby makes her yearn for a life that is gone but at the same time encourages her to try for another level of relationship with her daughter and the people around her.  She realizes that life is not a static, preset karma, but a flowing river of choices that can always be made in the moment.  In the same respect the character of Skip parallels Lydia's feelings by trying to become more than his families history.  Quindlen has crafted a touching  story that resonates  at the core.  Can life be changed or are we bound to become what is expected?  New life, like the baby that is found by Skip and Lydia, presents us with a blank page of innocence that challenges us to become more than our limitations.	2004-03-27
US	50933459	R1GK7DMDXXIKM6	0892819111	665638156	The Gospel of Mary Magdalene	Books	5	29	34	N	N	A Insightful Translation	I was transfixed by the Gospel of Mary Magdalene.  Jean Yves-Leloup has provided the reader with a beautiful esoteric interpetation of the words of Mary Magdalene.  In the remaining pages left from this gospel, she reveals to the apostles' the words of Jesus and their deeper meaning.  The fact that his words are delivered by a female, causes Peter some misgivings, but is eventually accepted as truth by the apostles' as the words resonate with power. Jean Yves-Leloup has given a line by line commentary that enlightens as it describes and is wise in it's explanations. Apart from the recent hoopla from popular books such as the DaVinci Code, this is a refreshing look at an important aspect of Chrisianity, the feminine divine, that has been overlooked and misplaced for centuries.  Being a Roman Catholic, I truley believe that this and other gospels not in the bible do not take away from what we have always believed, but deepen and enrich our faith enormously.	2004-03-27
US	50933459	RROGJID80YY3Q	1841952974	324088565	I'm Not Scared	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tense Drama	I'm not sure how to describe this book. Is it a shattering of innocence, a coming of age story, a mystery, a suspense novel or is it all of these?  I was drawn into the story immediately by the short terse prose, the descriptions of the countryside and the dialogue and actions of the young children in the story.  Ammaniti, has captured with accuracy the actions and thoughts of a child who is caught in an adult situation.  As the reader you are viewing the events from the eyes of nine year old Michelle and you feel the same confusion and detachment that he does when placed in a situation where an incredible event is occuring.  As he learns more and sees more from the actions of his parents and the other adults around him be begins to understand  what is really happening and can no longer remain detached. He can no longer remain neutral, he must act.  The book moves along at a quick pace and ends in a nail biting climax.  This was a  good story with beautiful detail and a realistic portrayal of a nine year olds reactions and thoughts.  I really enjoyed this book.	2004-02-26
US	50933459	RW0IUWAEUM9T9	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Can there be a thing as too much drama???	Dan Brown's Angels and Demons is just packed with too much!  Too much drama, too much symbolism, too much vatican, too much of Robert Langdon's ridiculously bad diaglogue.  Now, don't get me wrong...I did not hate the book...what I hate is that a book has tremendous potential and is ruined by the &quot;over the top&quot; drama better suited to the Harlequin Romance novels.  Angels and Demons isn't a bad read, if you're into this type of novel.  It has tremendous loopholes, but provides the reader with nail biting suspense, intricate plots, and some lustful moments between the main characters.  Cudo's to Mr. Brown for his research and imagination.  The Illuminati is an intriguing subject and the secrecy surrounding the papacy and the Vatican library and it's contents certianly makes this book interesting.  The premise that antimatter could be stolen and used for terroristic purposes is original and frightening in these times.  In the end, Angels and Demons is a novel that entertains the way a good B movie does.  There is nothing wrong with that, but frustrating to see the potential for so much more.	2004-02-23
US	50933459	R2ZTMWGOKPWG7L	076530953X	505704893	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Little Low on Whuffie	Jules is just a typical guy.  He's a century old, has written three symphonies, died and been revived into a clone twice and is in a relationship with a woman 15% his age.  His world takes place in a future that has no death and no scarcity and is run by the Bitchun Society. The currency of the day is Whuffie...or self respect/esteem.  Jules finds himself in the Magic Kingdom in Orlando being a castmemeber who faithfully maintains the rides at the park at their original status.  His life takes a turn for the worse when an ad-hoc committee moves in and threatens to \\"improve\\" the park ride by ride by making them more current and  less retro.  We watch as the story unfolds and Jules goes from a guy high on whuffie to a whuffie nobody. The setting is unique but the story is same old....guy in search of his meaning finds that life is really never what it seems but what you make of it yourself... It had many interesting concepts but non were fully developed.  It left me wanting for explanations and expansions to have a more fully developed plot.  I liked the book it was short and original but it was no science fiction masterpiece.	2004-02-23
US	50933459	R12LB3I0WHN5D4	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Heavenly.....	In this rich little novel, you meet Eddie on his 83rd birthday just before he is about to die.  His life is like many others, maybe yours...where he questions &quot;what's it all been about?&quot;  Eddie soon finds out when he awakens in his familiar amusement park in the teacup ride only to discover that he is dead and he is meeting with the side show freak that he vaguely remembers from childhood.  He informs Eddie that he meets with five people to help him answer his questions about the life he has lived and to learn what he needs to know to move on.  At first Eddie is confused, but as he moves from this piece of the afterlife to the next things become clearer and clearer and Eddie realizes that the smallest events can make the biggest difference.  Mitch Albom has created a loveable and heartbreaking character in Eddie. We watch as he begins his life with enthusiasm and suppleness of body as a child and young man then witness the gradual deterioration of his body through age and lifes disappointments.  You can't help but see yourself in this character because it is the human experience.  Life as Eddie finds out is a grand plan without mistakes, without coincidences and that we are connected to our fellow man in a spider web like way that can reach back before we were even born.  There is redemption, there is peace and there is a purpose.  A very touching and insightful book.	2003-11-28
US	50933459	R1NAPWOA9QVI1V	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Perfect for Vacation Reading...	I read Timeline on the beautiful, sunny shores of a Key West beach..a perfect time for a strained story about time travel.  The premise of the book is just fine; fanatical genius discovers a way to &quot;fax&quot; three dimensional objects (people) back in time..Ivy league professor and group of brilliant grad students are on an archaeological dig in France...After the professor leaves to visit the corporate headquarters, the students make an eerie discovery.  Unbelievably, they find a document with the professor's handwriting (of course they have a handwriting specialist in the group to verify this) and a bifocal lens of the professor's at the dig sight.  Soon they discover their evil corporate sponsor hasn't been truthful and the professor has actually been sent back in time to 1357 and of course the students must save him.  Now the fun begins!  This is where the book comes alive.  Crichton has done a wonderful job reconstructing medieval time with a whole cast of rich characters.  His research makes the book more plausible even though with some logic there are gaping holes in the plot.  At any rate, the characters are predictable but the action is interesting and the story as a whole entertaining. It's a Hollywood movie in the making with lots of action, bad guys, good guys, princesses and even some romance.  Not a bad beach read.	2003-11-28
US	50933459	R1LJIC84KIZUV9	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Slice of Pi	Life of Pi is an unusual story about a boy named Piscene Molitar Patel better known as Pi Patel.  He is the son of a Pondicherry, India zookeeper who contemplates life more than the average teenage boy.  Pi endearingly informs the reader of his love of religion, all religions, from Christianity to Hinduism to Islam.  His world is disrupted when his father announces that the family will be moving to Canada and in the process decides to sell the zoo. He will be transporting the animals  to various places in North America aboard the same cargo ship that his family is traveling on.  During the voyage the ship sinks leaving Pi the only survivor with a menagerie of animals on his small life raft including a zebra, hyena, orangutan and huge Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. So begins Pi's journey as a stranded survivor for 227 days on the Pacific ocean.<br />Yann Martel is a gifted writer.  His portrayal of Pi is endearing, witty and at times heartbreaking.  The story is original. Martel demonstrates the dynamics between man and animal and how a man can become an animal when his survival is threatened is illustrated througout the story.  At some point though, I just lost interest. Pi's story became boring and I felt like I had to trudge through at least 150 pages until I came to the near end and their discovery of an amazing island.  The ending was an enigma that the reader must decipher just like the investigators who interview Pi have to.  I wanted to love this book.  It was a Booker Prize winner and had the wonderfully rich character of Pi, but in the end I'll settle for liking most of it and appreciating an unusual and original if not at times slow plot.	2003-11-01
US	50933459	ROYKFBMJL0H9A	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Innocent Until Proven Guilty....	I love Patricia Cornwell's fiction books...and that's where I think her strength is...in fiction.  Portrait of a Killer is an interesting account of her discoveries while investigating the 114 year old Jack the Ripper case.  Cornwell asserts that the identity of Jack the Ripper is Walter Richard Sickert, case closed.  I find this a bold pronouncement considering that Cornwell did not provide the reader with one definite shred of evidence that clearly and unequivocably pointed to Sickert as the Ripper.  What she did do, was provide alot of circumstantial evidence that when put together does make an interesting but unproven case against Sickert.  Cornwell boldly inserts her opinions as if they were facts when recreating the Victorian era and what might have happened on the streets.  She makes conjectures about interactions between the victims and the Ripper, conjectures about what might have occured between Sickert and the people he interacted with and conjectures about what the police did and didn't do.  The fact of the matter is, Cornwell has forgotton that a man is seldom convicted on circumstantial evidence and it is only conjecture and coincidence that Cornwell presents.  Yes, Walter Sickert painted pictures of violence, yes he has stationary similiar to the one the Ripper notes were written on, yes he had operations in his childhood that may have rendered him impotent, and yes he was odd..but this all amounts to an educated guess.  Is it fair to write a book based on an educated guess?  In my opinion it's Jack the Ripper, case still unsolved.	2003-10-15
US	50933459	RJPGB08RGMZL7	0767908716	988178892	An Unfinished Marriage	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Thoughtful Comments about a Relationship	I loved Joan Anderson's book &quot;A Year by the Sea&quot; and I was very happy to see that she had written another book about her life.  I wasn't disappointed with this novel and read it in one sitting.  I have come to the conclusion that either you like this writing style, a memoir with a homey feel, or you don't. With that said, what this book is, is Joan's opinions about her life and her observations about her marriage.  This book won't appeal to everyone.  Not everyone will agree with her opinions and may find her constant observations egocentric but for me, it was a wonderful look into an intelligent woman's world of what makes her relationship work and not work.  I love the way Joan writes through the seasons, expressing her transformation from the self limiting roles of  wife and mother to the open ones of companion, trusted friend and soulmate.  Anderson is not afraid to take a hard look at herself and analyze the reasons she falls into negative behavior and attitudes.  What's more  she genuinely wants to transform and allow her husband to transform in his own unique way without interfering.  Not an easy thing to do.  As I finshed the book, I felt as if I had just ended a conversation with a  friend who had shared some secrets, fears, laughs and accomplishments with me.  This was an enjoyable and enlightening memoir.	2003-10-01
US	50933459	RTVIKAGRIX5N8	0385337639	738011644	Crow Lake (Today Show Book Club #7)	Books	3	29	30	N	N	Big Buildup.....to What??	Crow Lake is an interesting novel on many levels.  It has beautiful descriptions of the land in northern Ontario, a tragedy that occurs in the beginning of the novel, obstacles to overcome by family members and a dire mystery that is alluded to from early on. What is it then that disappoints me?  I guess for me, I never became involved with the central character Kate.  She is unemotional, detached and academic.  She resists facing her past, by refusing to become involved in her current relationships both with her students as well as her boyfriend.  Her story is told in a series of flashbacks beginning with her parents death when she was age seven.  It describes her relationships with her siblings especially her brother Matt whom she looks up to and loves devotedly.  The story continually refers to a deeper, darker, oppressive mystery that is yet to come and involves the neighboring Pye family.  The problem is, when everything is said and done, it is all anti-climatic.  So what!!  Mary Lawson, has a talent for writing.  Her words and imagery are beautifully depicted.  Her descriptions of seven year old Kate struggling to process her parents death is right on.  Why resort to using the big &quot;mystery&quot; technique for the story.  I felt this story was rich enough to sustain itself simply by the feelings, actions and environment that Lawson created for the Morrison family.  Good story, wonderful descriptions but lacking in the final chapters.	2003-09-28
US	50933459	R6N1YL7MLADX5	0452281296	559569265	In the Cut	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Edgy, Taut, Tense	Susanna Moore's book is an edgy, taut, fast paced thriller.  The story begins with Franny an NYU professor working with students from the projects in a writing class.  This is a convenient relationship for her as she is able to work on her own book and fufill her obsessions with language forms, particularly slang usage in this area of NYC.  Some professors comment on her inappropriately close relationship with her students as she  often sees them outside of class to discuss their projects as well as her interests.  On one particular night she goes to a bar with a student where she witnesses a man and a woman engaged in a sex act and this sets the plot for the book. This book includes alot of graphic sex scenes that Franny witnesses, recalls and engages in.  She is not a particularly likable character and becomes less so as the plot moves along and she becomes involved in an investigation involving the murder of the girl she saw in the bar.  The primary detective on the case, Malloy, is an interesting character who Franny senses is dangerous as well as exciting.  As their relationship heats up, she begins to feel that she is being drawn into a dangerous, erotic game but doesn't want to stop herself .  The last chapters of the book are page turners that I was unable to put down with an ending that doesn't disappoint.  This book isn't for everyone though, it is graphic in both its sexual content and violent descriptions of the crime scenes. It is an exciting novel that will leave you thinking about it and its characters well after the book is closed.	2003-09-22
US	50933459	RSHVXKYCX434E	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Uniquely Curious	Christopher Boone is this novels 15 year old narrator.  He lives in a modest home in an average neighborhood but for him the world can be confusing.  What makes Christopher unique is that he is autistic.  We the reader see the world through his eyes.  Upon discovering the neighbors dog has been killed, a pitchfork put through its body, Christopher decides to solve the mystery and record this in his book.  We meet his father, a struggling man, who is trying to cope with his son's disablilites, the neighbors, Christophers teachers at his school and various &quot;strangers&quot; that he meets throughout the story.  As the novel progresses we see increasingly the logic that Christopher uses to interpret the world and how this can comfort and at the same time imprison him.  For example, if he sees three yellow cars on the way to school it is a bad day and if he sees three red cars it is a good day.  His reasoning is based on a somewhat skewed perception of information and the reader is able to see the process he uses to come to his conclusions.  It is here that the author Haddon excels in his work bringing the reader into this boys world without making it melodramtic or overly simplistic.  In Christopher's world there is a rationale behind everything he says and does although this may be hard for the person he is interacting with to understand.  This is a book that starts out as a mystery and unravels more than who killed Wellington the dog.  It shows the reader the working of a mind that is different but none the less precious and unique in its own way.	2003-09-16
US	50933459	R3BBV917B96K6T	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fascinating	Jeffrey Eugenides has created a wonderful novel filled with characters so rich and places so varied that it is hard to describe this book in a short paragraph.  Middlesex is narrated by Cal/Calliope Stephanides who begins by informing the reader that he is a hermaphrodite.  But, this is just the beginning, the real meat of the novel is the characters that make up the Stephanides family.  The reader is treated to a history of the family's gene pool beginning with the incestuous coupling of Cal's grandparents from Smyrna, Greece.  It follows with the description of their lives as they come to America, fleeing Greece during an invasion from Turkey.  The story describes the birth of Cal's parents Milton and Tessie.  Milton in particular is an interesting character who courts Tessie with a clarinet, enlists in the Navy and eventually becomes the father of a baby girl named Calliope. Callie lives the life of an average girl growing up in Detroit in the 1960's until puberty begins.  It is then that we are witness to Calliope's growing isolation, fears, confusion and lonliness as she struggles to understand why she is so different.  It is heartbreaking to see the struggle that she is going through.  Details are what make this novel outstanding and each character and scene is loaded with details about the era, place and personality of the character.  This is what makes the reader so invested in this family and care so much for Calliope.  Eugenides has created a story that weaves together the generations of a family and their journey through life.	2003-09-12
US	50933459	RFY6BURAPAS6Q	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Beautifully Written Story	Julia Glass has written a luminous novel about family ties those we are born with and those we acquire through life.  The novel is divided into three sections that each include the McLeod family memebers.  In the first and most interesting section we meet Paul McLeod who is recovering from his wife Maureen's death on a trip to Greece in June .  Paul's reminiscence of Maureen is poignant as he describes their meeting and early years of marriage  together.  The reader is treated to beautifully written passages about their rural Scottish home and the interactions between these two people.  Paul is left wondering if he ever really knew his wife, certian that he loved her, yet regretting not having the courage to really know her.  Part two of the story centers on Fenno, Paul's oldest son, who arrives home from NYC to attend his father's  funeral. It is in this chapter we meet the rich, interesting characters in Fenno's life; Malachy Burns a music critic dying of AIDS, Fenno's lover, his neighbor and twin brothers Dennis and David and their families.  Fenno keeps his emotions to himself and like his father, questions why he sometimes doesn't have the courage to connect in a real way with the people in his life.  This is the longest section of the book and at times drags as Fenno philosophies about his life and relationships. The last section of the book is by far the weakest, with Fern Olitsky being the central character who ties into the McLeod's life in an intesting way. This scene is set in the Hamptons, at a beach house where a dinner draws Fenno, his brother Dennis, his ex-lover, Fern and a new man.  The interactions are interesting, but this was disappointing as the rest of the book was superb and the ending just seems to drop off. This is a story that is meant to be read slowly, with wonderful imagery and details to characters and relationships, but ends somewhat weakly.	2003-09-02
US	50933459	R23LVTLVL4D2NF	1843170051	878366778	Diana: Closely Guarded Secret	Books	3	74	77	N	N	Interesting  Comments About Diana's Life	Ken Warfe's book about Diana Princess of Wales was one of the more balanced and interesting accounts that I have read about her life from 1987 through the mid 90's.  He was Diana's body guard provided by Scotland Yard and at one point considered himself to be close confidant for Diana in a professional way.  His account neither condones or disapproves of her conduct but objecively describes her life at the time.  In it, he tells about her affairs with James Hewitt, James Gilbey and Oliver Hoare yet doesn't divulge seamy details that he may have been aware of.  He does a fine job of describing what Diana's life was like at that time in the royal family and how her some of her choices were effected by Prince Charles actions, particulary, his affair with Camilla Parker Bowles. He doesn't make excuses for Diana's actions some of which are very immature but impartially describes the scene and the people involved. Wharfe doesn't deny that his job was difficult at times.  In fact, he is very open about Diana's complex character.  He describes a woman who can be very difficult yet fun to be with, manipulating and needy yet extremely caring and selfless, a person obsessed with being in the spotlight yet wanting a &quot;normal&quot; life. I felt that her bodyguard, Ken Wharfe, captured her life for that time period in a well thought out, easy to read and balanced presentation about one of the most fascinating people of this century.	2003-08-31
US	50933459	R10GB7WDR1H2N1	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Premise....Cardboard Characters...	The Di Vinci Code is a murder mystery that starts out fast paced and easily pulls the reader into its exciting plot, but somehow falls short of expectations by the end.  Don't get me wrong, it is a good summer/beach read but I found the writing predictable, hollow and at points very melodramatic.  If your looking for good writing look elsewhere.  If your looking for fast paced, Hollywood style characters and a plot with an interesting premise this book is the one.<br />The books two main characters Robert Langdon a symbologist and Sophie Neveu a cryptologist meet in an unlikely way; at the murder scene of her grandfather.  The story runs away from there when the two discover an ancient secret tied up with a centuries old society that worships the goddess.  On the run from the police, Sophie and Robert on limited time try to figure out the code and discover what is hidden.  Interesting enough characters to begin with, but they are never really developed and fall into a predictable sequence of boy meets girl patterns. Other characters in the story include; an albino monk, a knight named Sir Leigh Teabing, a bulldog French police captain and a mysterious, faceless character called &quot;the teacher.&quot;  The greatest strength is the research and attention to detail that Brown uses in his plot.  It is fascinating, to read about Da Vinci, the Priory of Scion, Opus Dei and the hundreds of details he works into the plot on religious and pagan symbols.  An interesting, fast read but a bit slow during the second half of the book.	2003-08-19
US	50933459	R3S3ZHFUIK5QKD	0375414053	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Kate Reddy Superwoman or Super Exhausted	This was an enjoyable book by Allison Pearson that takes a more than humorous look at society, motherhood, family and marriage.  Kate Reddy is a character that the reader cheers for, loathes, envies and grieves for all at the same time. She is a somewhat over the top working mom who is continually juggling her career, family and marriage and feeling that she is less than successful at any one.  At work she feels like an imposter, at home she feels like an inferior mom and in her marriage she feels exasperated.  Throughout the book, Kate searches as we all do for who she really is. She makes decisions and puts herself in situations that appall me such as; thoughts about an affair, leaving a sick child, jealousy over her nanny, admitting how stifled she feels by the neediness of her children and her  feelings of inadequacies around stay at home mothers.  This is the beauty of this novel.  It arouses feelings that all mothers have regardless if they work or stay home.  When does it become okay for a mom to be a woman who enjoys more than caretaking.  These are questions that people feel very strongly about including Kate Reddy.  The struggles that she goes through in the novel are written in a humorous and sometimes heartbreaking manner by Pearson.  At one point Kate describes her mixed feelings about motherhood \\"The need of children is never-ending.  At what point is it all right to say when.  Never.  And to serve so selfessly, you have to subdue something in yourself.  I admire the women who can do it, but the mere thought makes me sick with panic.\\"  Is Kate loathsome because she admits her weaknesses?  Is she a better woman for following her heart?  Do her children suffer because of her actions?  Does her marriage?  Does she?  Yes to all and the heartbreaking reality of Kate Reddy is that no one can really have it all and each of us must struggle with their own definition of what works in their life.  A very inciteful book written in a humorous way that makes accurate observations about life for women in the workplace, at home and in marriage.  Well done!rate observations about life for women in the workplace, at home and in marriage.  Well done!	2003-07-22
US	50933459	RDXJSG57NWHMB	0060504072	560632836	Small Wonder: Essays	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beautiful Thoughts About Life	Small Wonders is a thought provoking collections of essays by the great wordsmith Barbara Kingsolver.  In this collection the reader is treated to heart wrenching descriptions of the natural beauty surrounding us everyday.  Kingsolver has an eye that many of us do not possess and is able to write in elegant, flowing prose and capture on paper the heart and soul of the land, animal or body of water she is describing.  She uses some of these essays to promote her political views which consist mainly of environmental conservation and peace.  She does not shy away from blatant statements about the wastefulness of the American culture and the desicions made by the American government.  This may be an irritant to those who do not agree with Kingsolvers views and she acknowledges that many people find her conclusions offensive and quotes one instance in particular, in which during a protest for peace a man shouts to her; &quot;hey lady, love it or leave it.&quot;  I found that Kingsolver was able to weave her statements so beatifully with her stories that the message did not come across so much as staunch political statements but as common sense. If the environment is exhausted to the point of destruction, it can't support any life.  My own criticism is that I did feel hopeless and overwhelmed at times by her descriptions of the rate of extinction, the devastation of rainforests, the wastefulness of modern day culture and the propensity for human destruction.  But as Kingsolver states at different points in her essays, all any one of us can do is to become more conscious of the small wonders in each of our own backyards and try to protect them with the ferocity that Kingsolver writes about.  A very thought provoking look at our culture, the environment, and the rhythms and beauty of life.	2003-07-14
US	50933459	R2Z4YHGKI84DZH	0743246128	462725394	What I Know Now: Simple Lessons Learned the Hard Way	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Simple Lessons, Learned the Hard Way	Sarah Ferguson's book What I Know Now,is a wonderful little gem filled with beautiful stories and wisdom.  I was pleased to find it on the &quot;new&quot; shelf at the library and after reading the first vignette, Forgiving the Past, I was hooked.  Each story reveals a little more about the Duchess of York, what she has learned from her past mistakes and how she has set a course to change her future.  It is not self indulgent in any way, but open, honest and humorous.  It takes great courage to put your history out there for people to examine.  It's refreshing tolearn about someone who makes no excuses for her behaviors, good and bad, but accepts what simply is and tries to do her best daily. It was such a pleasure to read about her daughters and the priority she places on her family.  Each story is one that all of us can relate to because as human beings, we encounter the same dilemas, emotions and consequences for our actions.  I smiled more than once, teared up more than once and fully enjoyed this little book about life. Sarah has a graceful,elegant way with words that makes this book flow nicely.  It is definetly worth your time to read this book.  Cheers!	2003-07-07
US	50933459	R2XN7JQ4Q1NMUN	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's Harry, but not at his best	I enjoyed reading the fifth book in the Harry Potter series but when I finished, I had to think to myself, what was it that makes me feel that although this was a good book, it was not the best in the series.  Two things come to mind.  In book five we see a new Harry.  A teenager who is angry most of the time, moody, doubting, insecure, impatient and sometimes mean to his friends.  He is a typical teenager.  This makes Harry a much less likeable character.  Secondly, this book was was just too long.  Instead of being an 870 page at times slow and redundant book, it could easily have been an exciting, adventure packed 350 page book.  Bigger is not always better.  In spite of these criticisms, I couldn't put the book down.  The story begins as usual with Harry at the Dursley's wishing he was back at Hogwarts, still reeling from the return of Voldermort in the last book.  We watch as Harry begins to unravel what has been happening in the wizarding world and feel with him his frustration and feelings of isolation being in a world of muggles while his friends are together.  Harry returns to Hogwarts to find that once again he is a pariah and he struggles to find his place.  Dumbledore isn't himself, Haggrid is missing, nobody seems to understand that \\"You know who\\" is really back.  Worst of all a new professor of the dark arts is making life at Hogwarts miserable.  Several of the characters are really evil, some are humorous, and all are well developed and interesting.  Hermoine has a larger role in this book than in the last and I really enjoyed that.  The ending,as always, was a page turner and I was up until 1:30am feverishly trying to reach the conclusion. I was left as usual with the same thought, \\"I can't wait to read the next book.\\"	2003-06-28
US	50933459	R3GYY9U5JCCN5Z	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Sweet as Honey	Lily Owens is a fourteen year old girl living in the racially charged South of the 1960's.  Unlike other girls her age she carries around a deep burden that at times threatens to overcome her.  Her mother died when she was four leaving her with only a pathetic handful of items including an unusual picture of a black madonna with the words Tiburon, South Carolina written on the back. Left to live with her abusive father T. Ray, Lily dreams of the times she was loved by her mother and is grateful for the only tenderness she gets from her black caretaker Rosaleen.  When Rosaleen angers some white men from the town while on her way to register to vote, Lily has to think fast and both she and Rosaleen run away to escape. They go to the only place Lily can think of, Tiburon.  What Lily finds is a strange pink house with the three Boatwright sisters named after the months of the year.  She and Rosaleen are accepted into their home and Lily begins to learn about raising bees and the making of Black Madonna honey.  It is here that Sue Monk Kidd excels so beautifully with her characterizations of the three sisters, August, June and May.  It is with tenderness and longing that Lily begins to explore the emotions she has repressed because she feels loved and safe for the first time.  The reader aches with Lily as she searches for a reason to feel worthy of love and to release and forgive the past.  Kidd, fashions a tale about these strong woman who learn that the only way to feel nourished is to mother oneself. This novel is like taking a ride on a deliciously slow, winding river on a warm summer day.  The writing is beautiful, the story is engaging and the characters are intriguing. A really enjoyable reading experience.	2003-06-19
US	50933459	R32IKHD8IF6EJM	0871138700	3379369	The Final Confession of Mabel Stark	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Tiger of a Woman	Mabel Stark a real circus performer known for her famous tiger taming acts from the 1920's is the main character of this fictional memior by Robert Hough. The story begins with the 80 year old Stark telling her life story or confession and it is a thrill for us to read.  Mabel has had more action packed into her life than most.<br />  She begins life as Mary Haynie a teenage nurse in a small Kentucky town who ends up in a disasterous marriage and as a result finds herself in a mental institution suffering from a supposed nervous breakdown.  When a sympathetic psychiatrist helps her to escape, she finds a job the only place she can, a cheap carnival as a dancing girl. Following another disaster of a marriage she is forced to dance \\"cooch\\" and finally gets spotted by Al. G Barnes who runs a somewhat more respectable carnival.  It is here that Mabel encounters her beloved tigers and marries for a third time to well know animal trainer Louis Roth.  Although the marriage doesn't work out, her career taming tigers is a smash hit.  Barnes buys her a tiger cub named Rajah and Mabels life changes.  Hough does a fascinating job describing life in the carny and creating the fictional life for all these historically real people.  Mabels accounts of raising Rajah and the act she develops and the maulings she survives are nothing short of astonishing.  She has a very interesting relationship to the animals.<br />As Mabel moves through husband number four, she is sought after and hired by the Ringling Bros. circus and becomes a bonafide star.  She discovers that fame is not all it's cracked up to be and it is at one of her lowest points that she meets her true love Art, husband number five.  It is a very poignant love story that the reader is treated to and you can't help but root for Mabel to be happy after what she has endured.  But this story is full of surprises and twists and I was hanging on every word wondering much as Mabel would muse, what life was going to bring her next.  I thoroughly enjoyed this story, at 422 pages, it was slow in some parts but overall it was a pleasure to discover Mabel, her world and the unique,quirky characters in her life.xt.  I thoroughly enjoyed this story, at 422 pages, it was slow in some parts but overall it was a pleasure to discover Mabel, her world and the unique,quirky characters in her life.	2003-06-14
US	50933459	R1CCATMZJ53W4N	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Devilishly Good Read	The Club Dumas isn't your typical mystery.  Lucas Corso isn't your typical detective.  So if you would enjoy something outside of the formulic mystery genre this novel will keep you reading late into the night.  I couldn't put this book down.  Like the main character Lucas Corso, I just kept getting more into the \\"game\\" as the story went on.  Arturo Perez-Reverte has created an intriguing novel about about the world of antique booksellers and dealers. The reader is treated to details about the literary world and the quirky people who inhabit it.  Lucas Corso describes himself as a literary mercenary who could possibly sell his soul to get the best aquisition.  We follow him as he begins the story helping his only friend Flavio Lapont by authenticating a manuscript written by Dumas himself.  Simultaneously, he is hired by a client to verify the fact that the book The Nine Doors of the Kingdom of Shadows is a forgery.  Somehow these missions become intertwined as Corso's life becomes enmeshed in the mystery of the Dumas manuscript \\"The Three Musketeers\\" and the satanic significance of the Nine Doors novel.  During his quest, Corso encounters a mysterious female  and various characters that he names after characters from the \\"Three Musketeers.\\"  As the mysteries become more sinister and life threatening the pace picks up and the reader is swept into the bizarre world of the people who hold the other copies of the Nine Doors book and the simultaneously flowing plot about the Dumas manuscript.  This isn't a light read but heavy on inferences with an ending that may leave some unsatisfied. I loved the detailed story with the references to historical facts interwoven with fantasy about the devil.  An excellent novel.	2003-06-14
US	50933459	R2YQFS8RBMVZ8E	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautiful Novel about Life	It was with relish that I opened the book for the second reading of  A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.  It is one of those novels that you can read over and over and find some lovely detail that was missed before with each reading.  This is the coming of age story of Francie Nolan and her family living in Brooklyn in the early 1900's. What is fascinating to me in addition to the story is the accruarate portrayal of life for the working class citizen at that time.  Life was hard and could be physically and spiritually back breaking for the uneducated working class man or woman of that time.  Betty Smith so beautifully captures this in her prose and observations about life.  This may be so, because the author grew up in those very neighborhoods at about that time period.<br />Francie is the daughter of John and Katie Nolan who grows up knowing that her father is an alcoholic and that her mother loves her brother Neely more.  Although this is conveyed to the reader what you really see is the love Francie has for her parents despite their shortcomings.  As a child she only sees the  way her father sings and his  poetic, dreamy view of the world. Francie admires the  hard working ethic and coarse love and protectiveness of her mother.  We meet her aunts and other neighborhood characters who add to the richness of the story and feel of authenticity of that time period.  She views all of the secondary characters for what they are, flawed but worth loving. She is a dreamer who goes from being a little lonely girl with the ability to see lifes ugliness with a sense of wonder and joy to an accomplished woman who still maintains this ability.  As the reader we are treated to life through Francie's eyes and that is truly a journey worth taking more than once.	2003-06-07
US	50933459	R2NEEHNC6P3WX1	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Elegant Story	There have been many enlightening reviews of Embers that compare this book with other famous works by better known authors and the signifigance it has as a metaphor for the state of Europe at the time it was written.  As a reader I was not interested in either viewpoint but just looking for an engaging, well written story.  So bear with me in that respect.  Embers tells the story of two old friends who have not spoken or seen each other for 41 years.  Henrik, a military man part of the priveledged upper class and Konrad also in the military but from a much less priveledged background.  The story recounts the men's friendship from their first meeting in boarding school through their thirties.  This novel is engrossing because the reader knows that something has happened and is slowly, tantalizingly brought to the climax of one fateful day in their life.  This book although about the actual events that take place in their lives is really about the philosophies behind human attachment; love, betrayal, jealousy, admiration, envy, honor and friendship.  We as the reader get to see these played out in Henrik's recalling of the events that take place between the two men.  Henrik never really grasps until much later in his life that his friend is a &quot;different&quot; kind of man.  He is left to ponder during his recalling to Konrad, if ever they were truly friends or the brothers he once thought them to be. We the readers are treated to a wonderfully worded, literary feast with a philisophical treatise on nature of friendship.  This gives the novel modern day relevance and timeless appeal .  It is not a face paced slick production, but a slow moving, thought provoking, winding story that is sure to be enjoyed by most readers.	2003-01-31
US	50933459	RBY3UYS3M08SY	0062501860	492335155	Plain and Simple: A Woman's Journey to the Amish	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Simply a good story...	This is a little story about a woman who goes on a journey of self discovery.  If you are hesitant to believe there is such a thing as &quot;self discovery&quot; and describe such actions as &quot;selfish&quot; instead, then this book is not for you. I enjoyed reading Sue Bender's story about her insights while living with an Amish family.  What began as an interest in the Amish quilts became an obsession for her.  She eventually finds an Amish family in Iowa who is willing to let her stay with them for a summer as a companion for the families aging grandmother.  From the very beginning what Sue notices is not so much the obvious differences in clothing, lifetstyle and religion but the way this Amish community had deeper way of just being.  Timelessness or being in the moment was something they displayed with each and every activity.  &quot;It was as if they had uncovered a way to be in time, to be part of time, to have a harmonious relation with time.&quot;  The author comes to re-evaluate the life she has been living and asks many of the same questions we ask ourselves.  There are no easy answers in this book, just observations to be read and pondered upon, to enrich and stimulate.  What would be our answer to the ultimate question Ms. Bender asks of herself,&quot;Am I a successful human being and not only a success?&quot;	2003-01-16
US	50933459	R1GL9ZO6R4BWXW	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magnificent	Laura Hillenbrand brings us the brilliantly written true story of Charles Howard, Tom Smith, Red Pollard, Seabiscuit and the combined effect they had on a nation from 1936-1940.  This book runs at a breathtaking pace from the very beginning which details the life of Charles Howard a bicycle repair shop owner who sets out to the West coast on a hunch and becomes a millionaire in the automobile industry. It alternates stories between  Tom Smith, born on the American Plains and raised as a horseman when they were a dying breed and the Canadian born Pollard who left home at age 16 looking for a break and ending up as a jockey.  It details the first meeting with Seabiscuit, the unlikely looking thorougbred who eventually electrifies a nation with his speed and grit. The story seamlessly weaves between the personal lives of these three people, their relationships with each other and Seabiscuit.  Nail biting race scenes, injuries and rivalries are detailed throughout the story.  Let it be known though, this isn't just another story about horses, it's about people, personalities, hardwork and believing in something so hard it comes true.  Forget about fiction when a true story can be this exciting.  These are real people who you can't help but root for. Real people who's lives are broken and made whole again all converging on a sport and a horse to give them a second chance.  I just didn't like this book, I loved it!	2003-01-13
US	50933459	R222U0BSHDUYZE	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An Interesting Premise that Falls Flat	This novel begins with Susie Salmon's death on a cold winter day in 1973. We spend the rest of the novel watching, through Susie's eyes, her family and friends unravel and find a way back again.  What impressed me most about this book was the premise, dead girl watches family and killer from heaven wishing she could communicate and occasionally being able to at times. It was particularly heartbreaking to read about the father's grief and his obsession with catching his daughter's killer.  He feels he must keep his dead daughter in his mind or she will be forgotten while Susie's mother must find a way to forget, to block out the pain. What doesn't work is that somewhere about half way through the book it falls flat.  I lost interest in the story and stopped caring about the characters after their initial reactions of grief.  Maybe I needed to understand more about the heaven Susie was in, Sebold intices the reader with descriptions of places and people but it never really goes anywhere.  There were some good characters, like Grandma Lynn and the people Susie meets in heaven that were never really developed.  The ending is  hokey and contrived it seemed an odd choice for Sebold to make after the mother abandons the family for eight years.  The reader is given very little insight into her life and her emotions after she leaves. The lovely bones refers to the bones growing around the hole left with Susie's death and this is one of the strengths of this novel.  Sebold has beautiful descriptive language that really pulls the reader into the moment. There was alot of hype surrounding this book and it wasn't a bad read but it was mildly disappointing on many levels.	2002-12-24
US	50933459	RR6BU5VUZN37A	0446530077	765138691	Find Me	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I'm Glad I Found This Book	I hesitatingly picked up this book from the library shelf, opened the cover and read the first page...I was hooked.  This is one of the best memoir books I have read. Who knew... Rosie O'Donnell is a wonderful writer! Interspersed with heartbreaking personal vignettes of Rosie's childhood is the relationship she begins with a \\"family\\" on the West Coast.  Rosie's first contact with the teenager Stacie, begins when she notices her file amoung many from the New Jersey adoption agency she funds.  Something about the case of the 14 year old rape victim who was now pregnant compelled Rosie to get involved.  What unravels kept me reading late into the night.  What awed me was the honesty that this book is written with, it's so honest you can feel the pain from her life experiences, come right off the page.  Not many people have the courage to tell it like it really is, the good, the bad and the ugly but O'Donnell does.  I think she has found a way to expunge her demons and you can't help but root for her because I think everyone can see a bit of themselves in her life.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book, it was a quick read that I will be thinking about for a long time.	2002-12-20
US	50933459	RRBD6TTWSUYTI	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Glad I didn't go to this college	Donna Tartt has written a complicated, nuanced, sometimes dragging but intriguing novel about relationships and the effects a crisis can have on them.  It is not easy to like any of the characters in this novel, and yet like a voyeur I could not help but be fascinated by the events taking place.  I had to keep reading to see what would happen.  We know from the beginning that Bunny Cocoran is dead and that he has been murdered.  The twist in this book is to watch how this murder has effected the group of students that committed the act and to see if they get caught. Hampton College is a small Liberal Arts school in Vermont with a unique and exclusive Classical Greek Department lead by a brilliant yet eccentric professor who is idolized by his students.  The group of students are a very odd mix of wealthy, priviledged  and brilliant people .  Richard Papen the narrator is a new student at the college who comes from the most ordinary of backgrounds and wishes to be part of this clique.  Once he is accepted he definetly gets more than he bargained for.  Part of belonging in this group involves buying into the idea that they are above the ordinary rules and ethics that guide the rest of us.  This is evidenced in their total disregard for the results of a botched bacchnalian ritual that was attempted.  But does this include murdering a friend?  Richard is more than happy to go along with this to feel part of something special.  The crux of this novel lies in watching each of the characters self destruct as they wrestle with their conscious and how far they are willing to go in order to protect themselves.  Murdering their friend is just the beginning of their problems and as Tartt reveals more about their lives and actions, the reader grows more incredulous at just what goes on behind closed doors and what these people are willing to do in order to keep their secrets.  A good book with well developed characters and a plot that keeps surprising although slow and ponderous at times.at times.	2002-12-18
US	50933459	R24ZG4Z71P6IKT	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Enjoyable Journey	Another book club choice and one that I normally would not have chosen. The list of travel memoirs I have read is small but I was pleasantly surprised by Bill Bryson's novel about his walk through the Appalachian Trail. As it turns out, the walk itself becomes secondary to the self introspection and relationship Bryson has with his travel partner Katz. What surprised me the most about this story is how funny it was. I laughed out loud on several occasions. Bryson writes with a carefree style and captures the crux of situations in such a humorus way. He describes his huffing and puffing out shape, bad attitude buddy Katz in hysterical fashion. Yet, far from being a joke, the reader comes to cherish Katz and the growth he has from his journey. The interactions with other walkers on the trail and their excursions into nearby towns are just as funny. Bryson himself reveals his insights into his motivations, musings and failings in a realistic approachable manner. Not only does he do justice to the beautiful scenery of our country, but he provides the reader with environmental information to ponder without being overly critical. Although not a literary masterpiece, I certianly enjoyed Bill Bryson's adventure and will not hesitate to read another tale of his.	2002-12-18
US	50933459	R1M7C1G5UXI3VL	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	14	19	N	N	A Bit off Key	Bel Canto was a novel I couldn't wait to read.  As I plowed through the first 150 pages, I was bitterly disappointed and could easily have put this novel down without ever picking it up again.  The book begins at a party with the world famous soprano Roxanne Coss performing for a crowd of important coporate big shots from around the world with one thing in common, they all love opera and they are all enamored by the soprano before them.  A terrorist takeover is attempted during the performance and  becomes botched once the terrorists realize their target, the president, of the fictional South American country is not in attendance.  What happens from that point is the crux of the plot.  This novel attempts to explore the relationships that develop in this unique hostage situation.  The realationship between the captors and the hostages begins to blur and soon the group has developed a psuedo community that is held together by their love of music.  Although they cannot communicate with language because they are all from different countries, music is the common ground they all share.  To really enjoy this novel, the reader has to buy into the illusion that the soprano  Roxanne Coss is irresistable.  That was a hard one.  Somehow Patchett manages to create different relationships between the hostages and terrorists; romantic, teacher/student, father/son and mother/daughter.  Slowly I found myself buying into Patchett's illusions and near the end I was rooting for these new found relationships to survive.  This book explored alot of really interesting concepts; music as the universal language, hostage mentality, love and loss.  I only wish that Patchett had not trivalized the events with her over the top characterizations  and sappy love stories between the characters.	2002-12-18
US	50933459	R3S06487NUDEG5	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	3	3	11	N	N	Oddly entertaining	Perfume is a novel I probably never would have chosen off the shelf.  With that said, the reader knows that I am perhaps biased in many ways.  This book was a bookclub selection that apperared under the category of historical fiction.<br />  The story begins with the birth of Jean Baptiste-Grenouille.  He is left to die by his mother as she delivers him in her stall at the farmer's market.  Grenouille has to be one of the strangest characters ever created.  He is repulsive to all his caretakers and is likened by the author to a tick.  Grenouille is born with a phenomonal sense of smell but, alas, has no smell of his own.<br />  The reader follows Grenouille through his life and his search for the perfect smell that will make him more human, make him loved and ultimately accepted.  Here the plot twists and turns into the most unlikely and downright strange scenarios I have ever read, concluding with what one can only describe as the most unbelieveable ending of all time.<br />  The writing is superb and it is the only reason I continued to read such a convoluted tale.  The historical detail and recreation of eighteenth century France was phenomenal.  The attention to the smells of that period was nothing short of amazing.  Patrick Suskind has written an amazingly odd story that you will not likely read any where else.	2002-11-13
US	50933459	R3JKCMLEEZIJQ	0517884941	388755271	Moosewood Restaurant Low-Fat Favorites: Flavorful Recipes for Healthful Meals	Books	5	36	36	N	N	The Best and Most Used Cookbook I Have	Moosewood Low Fat Favorites is simply the best cookbook I own.  The recipes are vegetarian (not vegan) but you definetly do not have to be a vegetarian to enjoy these wonderful, delicious recipes.  I am a mother of four children ranging from ages 16-5 years and I usually look for easy to prepare, visually appealing, great tasting meals and this book delivers on all fronts.<br />  Here are just a few of my families favorites; Spanish Pepper Frittata, Middle Eastern Chickpeas with Spinach, Lighter Lasagna, Stuffed Manicotti Verde and Eggplant Parmesan.  We have a garden that overflows with vegetables and last night I made the Cucumbers Vinagrette a simple dish that was completely gone by the end of the meal.  Broiled Zucchini with Herbs is a fantastic way to use up this over abundant veggie.<br />  Each recipe is accompanied by the serivng analysis which includes; calories, fat, protein, carbohydrates, and fiber as well as others items. The back of the book has a Glossary of Cooking Techniques and Terms  which is helpful if you are unfamiliar with preparing some of the items in the recipes such as tofu, tempeh, bulgur etc.  A Guide to Ingredients section gives a detailed description of ingredients that may be unfamiliar including; asian fish sauce, berbere, cornichons and fenugreek seeds to name a few.<br />  One of the best details is that each recipe has menu suggestions listed under it, for example, Seasoned Steamed Artichokes menu suggestions include; \\"Try them drizzled with Yogurt Tahini Dressing before Middle Eastern Chickpeas with Spinach or with Tabouli Salad with greens.\\" It takes the guesswork out of meal planning.  This is a great cookbook!	2002-08-18
US	50933459	RVPFOBSLNUYM6	0425174484	499536931	Expecting Adam: A True Story of Birth, Rebirth, and Everyday Magic	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Some Angels Come in Small Packages...	Expecting Adam, is a memoir written by Martha Beck about her pregnancy with her son Adam. What makes this novel unique is not that Beck discovers her son has Down Syndrome, but how she finds herself transformed by her pregnancy and the birth of Adam.<br />  Matha and her husband John are an amazingly brilliant Harvard couple who don't beleive in a world that doesn't have<br />answers for all it's phenomena.  When the couple begin to experience strange incidents Marhta begins to question her beliefs.  She yearns for her husband who is on business in Asia and suddenly she's there, not physically of course but she can hear, see and smell where he is.  She is so weak she can't get out of bed and a woman she barely knows appears at the door with groceries, because she had a strange urge that Martha needed her.<br />These type of things happen on a daily basis as well as some more startling events.<br />  Martha Beck is a wonderful storyteller.  I laughed out loud on more than one occasion as well as cried on others.  It's as if she is a long time friend having a conversation with you<br />on your living room couch.<br />  What touched me the most was Beck's description of Adam, the love she has for him and how he as a person has changed not only their families lives for the better, but all those that Adam comes into contact with.  Although he has Down Syndrome, he is wise beyond his years and a master teacher.<br />  This is an uplifting book, that shows us all that some angels do come in small packages.	2002-08-18
US	50933459	R1ZIM0R8JGCWF5	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	4	5	5	N	N	What is Truth and What is Illusion?	Tim O'Brien has written a novel that successfully explores the question of what is truth and illusion.  Is an event the truth because it happens or is the truth what we believe happens?  John Wade and his wife Kathy are recovering from a devastating political defeat at an  isolated cabin on the shores of a Minnesota lake.  One morning John awakens to find Kathy gone and the mystery begins or so the reader thinks.<br />  Kathy's disappearance is the surface mystery, while the real mystery in this story is what has made John Wade the man  he really is.  Is he the slick politician and loving husband that he appears to be or is he a murderer?  O'Brien reveals slowly through the book that John Wade was a lonely boy who was taunted by an alcoholic father, who then retreats into a world of magic tricks and illusions.  After his father commits suicide, he creates the father he always wanted by envisioning him in his mind behind the &quot;mirrors&quot; he has put up to block the painful memories. Later, O'Brien begins to tell a stunningly graphic and horrifying tale of Wade's tour as a soldier in Viet Nam. The reader is thrown again and again into the agonziing re- telling of his memories of the My Lai Massacre.  Wade's personna as the &quot;Sorcerer&quot; helps him endure these memories without going crazy. Wade covers up this event both psychologically and phyically by altering the records, but eventually things  unravel when the fact of this incident becomes public.<br />O'Brien brilliantly uses third person narrative with fictionalized  &quot;interviews&quot; from friends, family and people who knew the Wades as well as  accounts of the investigation into the My Lai Massacre and finally different quotes from various historical events to give a real feeling to his work.  As a reader you are drawn into this story as if you are reading a real event in the newspaper, it gives it a very eerie quality. There is a narrator of this story, not displayed in the traditional sense, but by small comments that appear in the footnotes of the interviews and finally taking a larger role in the end of the novel, perhaps echoing the readers point of view.<br />  This is not a mystery in the traditional sense and frustrating to some readers may be the fact that there is not a tidy ending.  There are no neat conclusions and the reader is left to ponder as is the narrator, the various hypothesis and eventual outcome of John and Kathy.  This is a unique, dark tale that is more about the human psyche, the tricks we play ,secrets we keep and as in the story, there are no neat endings.but by small comments that appear in the footnotes of the interviews and finally taking a larger role in the end of the novel, perhaps echoing the readers point of view. <BR>     This is not a mystery in the traditional sense and frustrating to some readers may be the fact that there is not a tidy ending.  There are no neat conclusions and the reader is left to ponder as is the narrator, the various hypothesis and eventual outcome of John and Kathy.  This is a unique, dark tale that is more about the human psyche, the tricks we play ,secrets we keep and as in the story, there are no neat endings.	2002-08-18
US	50933459	R13UFMZG2FKOKQ	0767905938	872531980	A Year by the Sea: Thoughts of an Unfinished Woman	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Mid Life Crisis or Transformation?	Joan Anderson writes a beautiful memoir of a year in her life in which she struggles with her path and the changes she feels are necessary for her growth.  Some people may view this book as a selfish and indulgent mid life crisis episode and others, including myself, may view it as a wonderful transformative experience to be envied and learned from.  How you feel about this book is dependent on your view.<br />When her husband arrives home one day excited over the news that he has taken a new job in another state, Joan decides that she would rather strike out on her own. Although not divorced the couple agree to separate, Joan moving into their Cape Cod residence and her husband moving to the new state to undertake the job.<br />What Joan discovers, is a new self, one that enjoys nature, being independant and a woman who is not afraid of new experiences. Each chapter relates to a season and in them, she describes her jobs, friends, problems and insights in an informal way that makes the reader feel as if she's sipping a cup of coffee and listening to Joan herself. In the end, the time apart from her husband enrichs their relationship in a way that is unexpected.  A Year by the Sea is  about the longing most people have to answer the question &quot;What's life really all about?&quot; Anderson chooses to act on this question and her life is beautifully chonicled in this little novel with a spirit that most of us can identify with.	2002-08-09
US	50933459	R3BCXB1BOTKZWY	0439098637	950695006	Aquamarine	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An Original Take on Friendship	Aquamarine by Alice Hoffman is an enchanting tale written for children between the ages of nine to twelve.  After reading the story I think that it is best suited for the lower end of that range as it maybe boring for the older twelve year old.<br />  Claire and Hailey are best friends who have always lived next to each other.  They are especially close this summer because it is their last together, Claire is moving to Florida.  Their favorite spot, the Capri Beach Club, is also closing at the end of the summer.<br />  One afternoon following a terrible summer storm the girls discover Aquamarine, a mermaid, living in the bottom of the Capri's pool.  She has fallen in love with the snack bar attendant and refuses to leave until she can meet him.  The girls go to great lengths to arrange this and in the end realize that Aquamarine would rather have known Danny for one night and be separated then never to have known him at all.  This parallels with the pain they are experiencing in their fears of separation.  The girls realize that true friendship like true love is never lost.<br />  Alice Hoffman is known for weaving fantasy with reality and I thought this was a well written, charming story that most young girls can identify with and will enjoy reading.	2002-07-09
US	50933459	RRX42AZ7G4ORS	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Thought Provoking Novel About Pain, Loss and Redemption	Atonement is one of those novels that begins slowly, grows on you and becomes impossible to put down.  McEwan has crafted a tale that begins with the Tallis family in 1930's England and ends in 1999.<br />  Briony Tallis is a 13 year old girl prone to fantasies and daydreaming who has a particular talent for writing.  On a hot summer day in 1935, she witnesses a scene between her sister Cecelia and the housekeeper's son Robbie that confuses her and sets into motion events that spin out of control.<br />  The novel follows the aftermath of this one day through Cecelia's, Briony's and Robbie's life which includes a stunning and heartbreaking description of the retreat from Dunkirk in 1940.<br />  McEwan writes with exquisite detail about the surroundings and each character.  Some readers may find this difficult but this novel is not meant to be read through at breakneck speed rather each detail is to be savored and refleced upon as he slowly builds to the stories climax.  Once you come to know the characters you are hooked and this fine Booker nominated novel brilliantly concludes leaving the reader wondering if atonement is ever truely possible.	2002-07-08
US	50933459	RTZ0QFAOR1684	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting Thriller...Great Summer Reading	This is the first Daniel Silva book I have read and I wasn't disappointed!  The stories first chapter grabs you immediatley and it's tough to put this book down.  Gabriel Allon is the art restorer/ Isarali secret agent who is called upon to restore a Raphael in the Rolfe home in Sweden.  When he arrives, he finds the owner of the home dead and he is later arrested for the murder.<br />  I haven't read the other books about Gabriel Allon but I didn't feel as if I missed out on much.  I was able to get into the story with no problem.  I can't compare this book to other ones though but I plan on reading more.<br />  As Gabriel gets deeper into this situation people from his past come back to ask him to complete this \\"job.\\"  He meets the daughter of the dead man, Anna Rolfe, who is a famous violinist and diva. He is pitted against the English assasin who is a former army man turned contract killer for an Italian family in Corsica.<br />  Silva continues with the action but also develops his quirky characters.  You really are interested in these people and their relationships.  I really enjoyed this book and it's unique premise about stolen art that dated back to the Nazi regime.  For a good old fashion international spy thriller, this book is it!	2002-07-03
US	50933459	R35678VCTWYHZM	0375413065	802913418	The Healthy Kitchen: Recipes for a Better Body, Life, and Spirit	Books	3	50	52	N	N	Expected Better....	I was excited at the prospect of this cookbook because I really admire Dr. Weil, his philosophies and his books.  Unfortuately the book was a disappointment in many ways.<br />  Many of the recipes are complicated and time consuming.  I am the mother of four children and don't have the time that's  necessary for many of these recipes.  Some examples include; Baked Wontons, Vegetable Nori Rolls, Vegetable Lasagna and Savory Lobster-Mushroom Crepe.  These were all multi-stepped recipes.<br />  You've probably guessed something else at this point, many of the recipes are not little child/family friendly.  The thought of Lobster-Mushroom Crepes is enough to send my five, eight and eleven year old to get the cereal.  My sixteen year old may appreciate it.<br />  The biggest disappointment to me was that some of the recipes didn't taste good.  I made Apple Cake Squares and they were so dry not even a dog would eat them.  I made the Eggplant Rollatini with Spinach and Cheese Filling and although the eggplant part was great the Tomatoe Mushroom Sauce it called for was only passable.<br />  What I did enjoy was the health tips interspersed throughout the book and the narratives by Dr. Weil and Rosie Daley. I would say again, that this book is not for people who are feeding young children or who are pressed for time at the dinner hour.  The recipes are inventive, original, healthy and different but for me it wasn't the best choice.	2002-06-30
US	50933459	R1R334NW29K724	0553714759	244886090	The Nanny Diaries	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Humorous and Heartbreaking	This novel takes a humorous and sarcastic look at a typical rich family in which the main character \\"Nanny\\" works for the ultra rich X family watching their lonely, spoiled, only child Grayer. What began in this novel as an unbelievable account of this families foibles and attitudes became all to real as we read through Nanny's narration about the neglect and at times real suffering the four year old Grayer experiences as he sadly begs for his parent's attention.<br />  The account of his mother, who must consult a \\"specialist\\" each time there is any conflict and whose days are filled with manicures, pedicures and meetings with decorators begins at first humorously because you can hardly believe that actual people like that exist, takes a sad turn as you realize that  there are people who would rather have a nanny raise their child than have their own child hug them when they return home from a day out because they might get a handprint on a designer outfit.  I know this book was done tongue in cheek, but there is a sad, umistakeable ring of truth  about Nanny's small, pathetic charge Grayer as he suffers through the changes in staff his parents make seemingly randomly and without thought that these employee's have been the most important people in their son's life.<br />  Much of the book has Nanny questioning why she continues to put up with the X's behavior.  The reader is treated to interactions between Nanny and Mrs. X that have you incredulous at the employers superior attitude and sense of entitlement.  Mr. X is another story as his affairs and total lack of interest in his family are infuriating to read about.  I did tire of hearing about how incredibly selfish these parents were and how incredibly selfless Nanny was and this made the middle of this 306 page book slow going.<br />  Many reviews will say that this book was hilarious and I would agree if I didn't know that although written with a wicked sense of sarcasm and exaggeration, there is unmistakeable truth about this family that can only make some of us really sad.ble truth about this family that can only make some of us really sad.	2002-06-16
US	50933459	R2ZZH3IMVVNELG	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good Story...Good Writing...What an Ending...	This is a gripping story that caught my attention from the first paragraph.  Anita Shreve is one of my favorite authors so I am prejudiced on that account.  I have read a lot of her books and although this is certainly a good read it is not, in my opinion, her best novel.<br />  Kathryn Lyon is awakened in the middle of the night by a knock on the door which she knows means one thing.  Her husband Jack is dead.  The story takes off from there as Kathryn learns of her husbands death when the plane he is piloting explodes over the Atlantic Ocean.<br />  Through her grief, Kathryn discovers inconsistencies and doubts about the man her husband really is.  Shreve is a very clever weaver of stories and inconsequential items or memories always tie into the final conclusion.  Kathryn eventually finds that her husband was not the man she thought he was and that her whole life is a fantasy which she has inadvertently helped to create.<br />  The reader is compelled to finish the book as the plot grows more suspenseful and taut and draws to an almost unbelievable conclusion. This is the books strength and weakness as it almost works against the story as too contrived to be real.  Shreve has explored the themes of jealousy, infidelity and loss in several of her books and she does so with style and a reality that leaves the reader with more to think about long after the novel is finished.	2002-06-16
US	50933459	R3BP0LP8Z9IG32	0374172897	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A  good story but won the Pulitzer????	To do this story justice I will admit that I have never read Virginia Woolf and having said that, any reader is at a severe disadvantage if they have not read Mrs. Dalloway.  The Hours, was apparently the working title for that novel.<br />  Much of Cunningham's acclaim has stemmed from his ability to weave his story into the Mrs. Dalloway story line and create a fictional account of Virginia Woolf as she imagines the idea of Mrs. Dalloway, writes the novel and eventually commits suicide.<br />  I found the story ordinary and at times tedious as I tried to make sense of these characters and the jumping back and forth between them and time periods.  I kept reading and waiting for something to happen, for some turn of events that would tie everything together.  I was finally vindicated in the end as Cunningham spectacularly did tie all his characters and events into an amazing web that was reaveled in the last ten pages of the book.  But, is a read worth the last ten pages of a book?<br />  I found his writing style poetic and his descriptions of characters unique in his observations.  If I had been better versed in Virginia Woolf or had read Mrs. Dalloway, I may have enjoyed the story more or been able to appreciate Mr. Cunningham's clever parallel's in his story.  As it stands, I found the book mildly enjoyable with a redeeming ending.	2002-06-12
US	50933459	R1KTIQET65K432	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Outstanding	This is an outstanding novel about the legendary Galileo and his life.  Not having a passion for Galileo and knowledge limited to what I had learned in high school prior to this reading, I chose this book solely on the basis of the human interest element.  I had never heard that he had a daughter much less an enduring record of such a relationship.<br />What I found most fascinating was the brilliance of Galileo and his inventions.  Although he was criticized and later penalized by the Catholic Church he devoted his life to understanding the world and proving his hypotheses through his numerous experiments and inventions.  His life is truly amazing as is the background we get from Sobel about Italy and Italian culture at that time.<br />The relationship that is established between himself and his daughter Suor Maria Celeste is clearly evidenced through the letters that she sends to her father.  Unfortunately, there are no surviving letters from Galileo himself.  How poignant are her inquiries about her father's work, health and home arrangements.  It is clear from these letters that she holds her father in the highest esteem and that he returns this affection for her.  Very interesting in itself is her life in the Poor Clare Convent and the trials she must endure in her life up until her untimely death from dysentery at age 34.<br />I had the opportunity to see the author, Dava Sobel, speak in my community and she is a wonderful speaker.  Her sheer determination to write this book was amazing.  She learned Italian so that she could translate the letters!  If you ever have a chance to see her lecture you won't be disappointed.  An outstanding book with a goldmine of information that will inspire you.	2002-06-04
US	50933459	R23U7LIFKXZCV5	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	An engrossing story of love, betrayal and transformation	This novel grabbed me right from the very beginning.  Janet Fitch's descriptions of the main character, Ingrid Magnussen, as the cold, cryptic, self centered mother of this story are stunningly realistic and artfully written.  She is a character that is hard to imagine.<br />  The narration by her daughter,Astrid, is heartbreakingly realistic as the rejected, scared, broken child who is left to struggle through a series of foster homes.  The cast of characters that come into Astrid's life are unique in their quirkiness but similar in their desire to get something out of Astrid's situation.  It is very moving to read about this child's loneliness and sadness as she is taken from foster home after foster home.  Yet through each experience she learns how to protect herself in this life.  In the end, she truly believes that she is not worthy of going to someone who truly could love her and provide a good home for her.<br />  We hear from her mother through a series of letters that are sent to Astrid.  It is in the end, that Astrid finally feels that her mother loves her when she makes a choice not to exploit Astrid in order to free herself.<br />  Fitch has created a story that will get your attention from the first sentence and send the reader on a journey that rollercosters them through all their emotions and leaves them feeling satisfied with the outcome if not queasy from the ride.	2002-05-22
US	50933459	R3HR2JU7676QXH	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Moving Tribute	James McBride has written a straightforward, moving account about his life and his mother's past.  In many ways this novel reminded me of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; in that McBride could recall his difficult often times neglectful childhood in such a non-judgmental and detached way.<br />I especially enjoyed the casual, conversational style that McBride uses in the book.  It felt as if I was talking with an old friend.<br />I applaud the insight and courage that propelled him out of his own confused identity crisis and led him to fnd out more about his heritage.  McBride unearths a history he finds hard to believe.  A story that tells of his mother's struggles as a young girl in a neglectful and dysfunctional family.<br />McBride can see the beauty and love in his mother although she is never able to express her feelings to her son.  He admires her sheer determination to educate her children and her fierce protectiveness that ultimately isolates them from a society not ready to accept interracial marriages and their children.<br />An interesting,compelling, beautiful story about family, love and acceptance.	2002-03-14
US	50933459	R3W19UYYB4988P	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Unique Characters...Interesting Story	Odd, interesting, dynamic, mystic, weird, all of these adjectives describe my reactions to this novel.  I waited a long time to get this book from the library and although I didn't find it boring, I was mildly disappointed after all the hype that surrounded it.<br />Eliza a second grader is not your average child.  Enmeshed in a most dysfunctional home, ignored and a loner she discovers an incredible talent accidentally during a spelling bee.  Her father Saul latches onto this and centers his attention exclusively onto her by training her in Kabalistic mysticism while trying to experience it vicariously through her.<br />Aaron is the adolescent older brother, who up until Eliza's discovery had been the chosen child studying with his father to the exclusion of all else.  His revolt to being replaced is to seek solace with a cult like religious experience perhaps providing for him a real family-like structure for the first time.<br />Miriam the mother of the family is equally as odd and plays a smaller part in the story until the end, where she experiences a physic breakdown and the reader is thrown into her odd, distorted, disconnected world.<br />Goldberg weaves an unusual, distrubing tale of lost and found relationships with people, objects, words and God.  Her beautiful writing and vivid images more than make up for a sometimes confusing, slow storyline that at times threatens to overcome the reader.	2002-03-14
US	50933459	RNHV2T0AX09HM	0767900383	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Un Bel Libro...A Beautiful Book	Frances Mayes delivers for her readers an animated, lyrical, luscious memoir of her decision to purchase and renovate a house in Cortona, Italy.If you are at all interested in Italy or traveling this book will delight you and make you envious of the life she is carving out in Tuscany.<br />Unfortunately, if you are looking for a gripping drama you will be quite bored with  Mayes' descriptions of her meals, shopping excursions, home renovations and the visits to Etruscan tombs.<br />I found myself wandering at certian points in the book as some of descriptions of the house renovations got just a little too wordy, but I was always pulled back into the story by another description of the townspeople, dinners at the town restaurants, churches or the surrounding towns.<br />An enjoyable read, where Mayes creates a vivid imagery of the Italian countryside and beautiful prose that let's the reader into her most private thoughts.	2002-03-11
US	50933459	R1ZO9ZP5ZPFOTB	0316782505	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Couldn't Put This One Down...	A gripping and hauntng tale that weaves the past into the present with brilliant subtlety.  Jean is on assignment to photograph the sight of a long ago murder on Smuttynose Island off the coast of New Hampshire.  She along with her husband and five year old daughter decide to turn the assignment into a vacation with her brother in law and his new girlfriend on their sailboat.<br />Jean discovers a lost archive in Portsmouth's library including a narrative from the sole survivor of the murders.  As the reader discovers, Maren, the narrator from 1873 tells a compelling story about the forbidden love for her brother, her marriage and life on Smuttynose, which changes drastically with the appearance of her sister and her brother's wife Anethe.<br />The story parallels with the relationships on the boat as these characters are thrown together in small quarters and jealousies and strong emotions begin to arise.  Jean, like Maren, makes a decision that she ultimately regrets and changes the course of her life forever.<br />With words that are as smooth as silk, Shreve tells an engrossing tale of jealousy, innuendos, mistakes, loss and tragedy.  A book you won't be able to put down.	2002-03-06
US	50933459	R3A7KT25Y206OB	014071491X	145433437	Titus Andronicus (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Guts, Gore, Gross...	I will admit that I am definitely not a Sakespeare expert but read several plays in order to choose which enactment to see at the Stratford Festival. I didn't choose this one!<br />This tradgedy was horrifying to read because of the sheer evilness of the characters and the outrageous violence throughout the story. There's deception, manipulation, rape, torture, gore and more gore.  In my opinion, it isn't Shakespeare's most meaningful or enlightened work but it wasn't boring either.  Hardly anyone escapes this story alive and the most redeeming quality, in my eyes, is that everyone in the end gets just what they deserve. This play must have shocked the audiences in the 1500's. If you're into violence and shock value this story won't disappoint.	2002-03-03
US	50933459	R1RNPMDFVTRYI7	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Likeable but Slow Read	This book was difficult for me to &quot;get into.&quot;  I normally love Sue Miller's novels and find that her lyrical style and insightful descriptions of her characters and their motivations are something that I can really identify with.  I think what happened here is that Jo the main character was just not likeable.  I didn't &quot;buy&quot; her justifications for her secrets and her actions.  She was self serving and manipulative.<br />The second half of the book is when the pace picks up and I became more engaged with the story line.  Bits and pieces that at the time seemed to be long and drawn out descriptions come into play and all seems to make sense in a taut suspenseful conclusion.  All in all a fairly good read but not my favorite Sue Miller novel.	2002-03-03
US	50933459	RE9JJ1EC51UMN	0786862181	452570984	Surrendering to Marriage: Husbands, Wives, and Other Imperfections	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Marriage: the good, the bad and the ugly	Iris Krasnow elegantly puts together her thoughts about marriage, all of them, the good, the bad and the ugly.<br /> I really enjoy the way Krasnow writes with such honesty, humor and style.  Your getting a slice of her life raw and uncensored.  This is the best part of the book but can also be the most tedious.  At times she seemed to repeat herself and tends as any mother does to wax a little long abut her four boys.<br /> The book intersperses interviews with people of varying ages, both men and women with Krasnow's own insights. Some of these stories enraged me, some saddened me and still others gave some darn good advice.<br />In an era of disposable everything, it is refreshing to read Krasnow's view of honoring the promise made at the marriage ceremony..to stay in for the duration in good times and bad.  Surrendering our need to pursue pleasure one hundred percent of the time and experience the darker side of the relationship we end with a truly deep, rich and satisfying state that only battered, weathered couples appreciate.<br />As Iris Krasnow so simply and insightfully puts it &quot; And so we are bound, inextricably, working on making it until forever, one hour at a time.&quot;  An insightful, humorous, sometimes painful look at a complex subject.	2002-03-01
US	50933459	R1KA8L5HG7VR2Q	0140287442	127452574	I Dreamed of Africa: Tie In Edition	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Beautiful Dream	An autobiographical novel about Kuki Gallman's experiences in Africa...<br /> The book is filled with wonderful descriptions of the African landscape and the  struggles of daily life in this enigmatic<br />country.  Kuki engages the reader with tales elephants in her garden to the very real threat of lions that can kill in one moment of carelessness.  It is clear through her writing that she truly loves and feels a spiritual conncetion to this land.<br />Her upbeat attitude, \\"There has never been a day of boredom\\" and sincere desire to protect the environment has bolstered her through two tragedies that would break a lesser person.<br />You may not agree with some of Kuki's life choices but you will be inspired, awed and envious of the adventures and environmental achievements she has made in her lifetime.	2002-02-27
US	50933459	RQF8JCE6NYYIP	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Little Book with Big Adventure	I was surprised by this little excellent book!  A young boy named Sparrowhawk is born with tremendous power but has no training or discipline to handle it.  He is taken by the Wizard Ogion to be trained but, Sparrowhawk, impatient to use his skills asks to be sent to the Island of Roke to the famous Wizard School.<br />There he encounters other boys with skills like his own.  He comes to face his own weaknesses and greed for power when a classmate whom he hates dares him to cast a spell he is forbidden to do.  This results in a tragedy and Sparrowhawk's near fatal injury.  Upon recovery, he vows to change his ways and right what he has done.<br />Although this book was recommended for ages eleven and up, it is by no means a book for young adults only.  It has some very profound life lessons that adults will identify with.  I loved the fantasy world that Le Guin creates.  Her writing is taut, suspenseful and imaginative.  The premise that the power of a word can change a relationship or destiny is brilliant.  The story stresses balance and equilibrium in life in that each action effects all as we are all from one source.<br />Wizard of Earthsea is a totally engrossing and vivid fantasy tale.	2002-02-27
US	50933459	R6KO7HWMVIROJ	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A Predictable Rendition of a Legendary Story	The fictional story of Joan of Ingleheim who legend has it becomes the first female Pope.  Joan is born in 814 A.D. and early on shows signs of great intelligence.  She convinces her brother Matthew to teach her to read and write in secrecy as her father considers female education a mortal sin.<br />  When Matthew dies, Joan tries desperately to continue with her studies, but is cruelly turned away by her fahter who considers her an abomination.  It is only after a famous Greek scholar stops at the house and recognizes Joan's brilliance that the father can be convinced begrudgingly to allow Joan to study their religion.<br />  Joan is sent for by the Greek to attend the famous Cathedral School in Dorstadt, but her father instead sends her brother John.  Joan is forced to run away and plead for entrance into the school.  She is the sole female at the school and is treated horribly by students and the headmaster which resonates with the theme of brutality towards women throughout the book.  She meets one person, Gerold, who shows her kindness and respect and eventually falls in love with her.<br />  During a vicious Viking raid which kills all but Joan, she assumes her brother's identity and becomes John Anglicus and enters a monastery.  She later travels to Rome where her skills as a healer, learned at the monatery, bring her into contact with two different Popes.<br />  Upon the last Popes death, she is elected Pope but the election is bittersweet as she realizes that in order to fulfill her obligations, she cannot be with the love of her life Gerold.  A tragedy ultimately ensues.<br />  A disappointing, predictable rendition of a legendary story.  It's light, easy reading at best with a simplistic rendering that leaves the reader wishing for something more.	2002-02-21
US	50933459	R20SGVJ5I2VE	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not Atwood's Best	An uninteresting, slow read that was torture to finish for my book club.  Being a Margaret Atwood fan, I was eager to begin this latest book that won the Booker Prize.  Although I find Atwood and unbelievable wordsmith, this book with the &quot;book within the book&quot;  never really took off for me.<br />  One of the main characters, Iris, narrates the story in a droll, unemotional tone that never engages the reader.  If the story does become interesting, especially describing her younger sister Laura and her eccentricities or Iris's moments with her lover, we are plummeted into a frustrating and boring science fiction story that never quite meshes with the rest of the novel.  There are parallels with main story, which the reader finds towards the end, but by then who cares.<br />  I did enjoy Atwood's unique use of newpaper articles as lead-ins to a chapter.  I have never seen that technique used in a novel and each one piqued my interest.<br />  As a Margaret Atwood fan, I have to say that this book is not one of her finest stories.  For me, it had the least likeable characters.  It is on another level, a beautifully written novel with wordy descriptions that create visual images that only Atwood can.	2002-02-21
US	50933459	RYJ4EXYLJ2F2R	1561709077	439111257	Gut Feelings	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A Real Life Journey	An \\"in your face\\" style memoir by Carnie Wilson of her struggle with obesity and her eventual triumph through gastric-bypass surgery.<br /> Carnie recounts her life as a child, struggling to connect with her troubled father Brian Wilson. She points to several complex theories as to her history of weight problems and eventual addiction to marijuana.<br /> It's not a particularly well written book and the extreme use of expletives might turn some people off. At times I felt it read like an \\"infomercial\\" for Spotlight Health, the website that aired Carnie's surgery.<br /> What it is, is a refreshingly honest account of her frustration with not being able to control her life and the impact it made on those around her.<br /> In the end, Gut Feelings is an inspiring story about a young woman who finally overcomes her life threatening obesity and drug addiction with surgery, hard work and the love and support of her family.	2002-02-21
US	50933459	R29IITE1XK66E9	0312150601	240594756	Behind the Scenes at the Museum: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Gem of a Novel	In an original novel about fictional Ruby Lennox that spans from her conception to adulthoood, Atkinson recounts family life in 1950's England.  She brilliantly weaves family history as far back as 1915 into the novel through the use of footnotes.<br />  Atkinson cleverly interjects the Lennox families history through the vignettes of past relatives featured in the footnotes that alternate with the narrative chapters.  Altough at times somewhat confusing chronologicllay, it is enjoyable to read through these other people's voices.  Through these stories the reader sees how descendents past actions have a direct influence on the present day.  It is amazng that each of these footnotes so beautifully ties to the story and gradually unfolds to the reader as it concludes.<br />  Atkinson uses cupboards as a metaphor to represent one's collective memory as well as the character Ruby's memory.  It is particularly effective as Ruby searches her memory for the details of a traumatic event that changes her life.<br />  At times exhilarating and at times profoundly sad, this novel of ordinary family life will touch everyone.  We all have a past history that impacts us in a way we may not be aware of and Kate Atkinson has brilliantly woven this into a story that moves us.	2002-02-21
