US	50940744	R35G65CRYKVP7W	0446605263	727091004	The Lie	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Painfully Bad	I finished this book because I was stuck on a plane and it was all I had to read, but it is so bad that the experience was painful. Nothing in the book is either believable or engaging. The characters are facades with no clear motivation and the actions are simply beyond all belief. It should have been a clear indication when I noticed there was no author's picture or bio on the book jacket. I wouldn't want to be associated with this mess either.	2000-11-17
US	50940744	R13N2QNEXYB69N	0743202007	154253514	Portrait of an Artist, As an Old Man	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A sad exit for a great writer	Joseph Heller wrote one great book, Catch-22. Nothing else in his long  career ever came close to capturing the absurd tragedy and comedy of the  modern world as that book did, but they were interesting and readable  nevertheless. Alas, the same cannot be said for Portrait of an Artist, as  an Old Man. This &quot;novel&quot;, which deals with an aging author  struggling to find a new subject to write about, fails on almost every  front. It isn't funny or insightful. It doesn't really tell a story. It  presents, instead, a series of false starts to novels that the author then  gives up on as being no good. And for good reason -  they ARE no good. The  frustration the author feels seems real enough. The reader, unfortunately,  experiences the same frustration and it is never resolved. Frustration is a  good plot device if the story then resolves the issues that caused the  frustration. That doesn't happen here. There are some touching scenes in  the book, but they aren't really integrated into the whole. Indeed, there  doesn't seem to be any sense of this series of bits and pieces being a  &quot;whole&quot; anything. Supposidly Heller &quot;finished&quot; this  book just before his death. If that is true it doesn't come across in the  reading. It seems incomplete and fragmentary, and a sad exit for a great  writer.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R11UNA623Q39TN	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	2	6	N	N	An interesting departure for Robert Crais	In a real change from the tone of his very successful series featuring  detective Elvis Cole, Robert Crais's Demolition Angel gives us a female  leading character enmeshed in self-destructive behavior and simply  radiating hostility. This is understandable, given that she was  &quot;killed&quot; by a bomb explosion that took the life of her lover, and  revived by paramedics only to suffer a life of lonliness, disfigurement,  and fear. The story that Crais imagines for her is one that few readers of  crime fiction could resist, full of plot twists, twisted characters,  violence, lots of authentic bomb squad insight, and a love affair as dark  and painful as the heroine's worst fears. While some of the major plot  elements are predictable, there are enough surprises and satisfying turns  to keep the reader hooked all the way.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R1ZOF1LMS8IXGT	0151003580	816673667	At End of Day	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Hard to believe this is his last	The books of George V. Higgins are, I suspect, an acquired taste. They are  considered by many readers to be too difficult because there is no straight  forward narration and because so much of the books are made up of dialogue  - or more often, long monologues. The plot emerges slowly from what the  characters say. A reader who is in a hurry to be engaged in the story is  likely to be disappointed. But for those who have grown to love Higgins's  ear for vernacular and the peculiarities of ordinary speech, all of his  books are treasures that can be savored slowly for the richness of the  language alone.<br />At End of Day is the story of an unholy alliance between  two members of the Boston mob and a select group of FBI agents whose  careers have been made successful through information these mobsters have  provided about their Mafia counterparts. The FBI, in turn, has protected  these men from prosecution which has allowed them to even commit murder  with impunity (though this is &quot;against the rules&quot;). This tale is  all the more interesting because it is based on a true story.<br />It is a  shame that this is the last Higgins book we will have. He died as it was  going to press. On the positive side, he wrote so many books during his  career that fans of his style should have no trouble finding something to  satisfy that acquired taste.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R3TL77GMGBKDG2	0380786699	848065303	Haven	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A unique, entertaining, and frustrating book	It's hard to know what to say about John R. Maxim's novel Haven. It  manages to be both tremendously entertaining and frustrating at the same  time. The books defies easy classification. The central story is more a  love story than a thriller but the lovers are both assassins, though with  different motivations. The beginning scenes of the novel are harsh, ugly  and difficult to take. The book's finale is overlong and also hard to take  because, at least for this reader, what happens is not pleasing. But in  between there is a complex story, featuring violence, humor, pathos, and a  variety of interesting characters. There is also a lot of great dialogue,  although the imagined dialogues the lead characters have with one another  tend to be a bit overdone.<br />I haven't read anything else by Maxim, but  after this I plan to. Even though this was not a totally satisfying reading  experience it was quite entertaining and anyone who can imagine somthing  this unlikely and bring it off as well as he does, deserves an audience.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R14TYLXTLDJGK9	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Too artificial and predictable to be really satisfying	Maybe my judgement of this book was affected by my growing lack of  patience for books about doctors and lawyers, but I felt that it was much  more artificial in plot and character than I would have expected from  Phillip Margolin. Almost from the first page one senses a kind of stiffness  in the dialogue and shallowness in the presentation of character that might  more reasonably be expected from an inexperienced writer. And what really  kills any enjoyment a reader may have in the story is the absolute  predictablility of the outcome. The author's deliberate misdirection in  trying to set up a villain straw man so that readers don't realize who the  murderer really is, is painfully obvious, and doesn't work. Neither does  the book.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	RTBMDL4KLLW9P	0385488440	597135386	Purple Cane Road: A Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Burke is back on track	After a couple of lackluster novels that proved disappointing to his fans  James Lee Burke has re-emerged as the most exciting and serious writer of  popular fiction in America. Purple Cane Road, the new entry in his Dave  Robicheaux series, proves to be one of his best ever. No one handles  descriptive writing like Burke and while in some of his books the lush  descriptive passages tend to overpower the plot, in Purple Cane Road all  the elements are in balance. With a tight and complex plot, as well as a  really fascinating cast of characters, this novel never loses focus and  keeps the reader's attention to the very last page.<br />For long term fans of  the series there are some special pleasures. The confrontations between  Dave and his now adolescent adopted daughter, Alafair, have an absolute  ring of truth that anyone who has had to live with a teenager will  recognize. And another regular character of the series, Clete Purcel,  finally gets his chance to shine. Purcel, who does for Robicheaux what  Robert Parker's Hawk does for Spenser - provide the occassional dose of  serious violence to the bad guys and serve generally as back-up man and old  friend, expands his regular role to include a fateful love affair with  another of the characters. It is a side of Clete not shown before and makes  him all the more interesting and human. And at the heart of the story is  the mystery of the disappearance of Dave's mother when he was a child - an  old theme that has emerged in Burke's books before but was never central to  the plot until this one. Dave, who is always preoccupied with his past, has  a chance to solve this mystery and put some of his personal ghosts to  flight.<br />All in all this was a wonderful reading experience and I would  highly recommend this book both to those who know Burke's writing and  especially to those who have never experienced him.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R1Y2O0ZW182I7B	0553096338	610218381	Grant: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Another Max Byrd Triumph	For those who have read either of Max Byrd's previous historical novels  (Jefferson and Jackson), Grant: A Novel will seem like a natural extension  of the story of America's past that Byrd brings to life in his books. These  novels are not so much about the title characters as they are about the age  in which the characters lived and acted. His central figures provide a  pretext for exposing the reader to the complex detail of everyday life in  the past and manage to make that life accessable and real in a way that  books of history and biography seldom do.<br />In the character of U.S.  Grant, Byrd presents a figure that is almost a proxy for the America of his  day; a seemingly simple, inarticulate, rural man who seems to have few  prospects, yet despite failure in his early army career, addiction to drink  and abject poverty, rises to become the most successful general in American  history, President for two terms and the most famous man in the world, only  to suffer scandal, bankrupcy, and a painful death from throat cancer. If  Grant were not, on the surface, such an &quot;ordinary&quot; man, this  would be the stuff of Greek tragedy. And like the boom and bust economy of  America's 19th Century, the ups and downs in Grant's life tell us more  about the broader social, economic, and political forces that were at work  than they do about the man himself.<br />The story of Grant's life is  preseneted in bits and pieces and not in chronological order. The subplot  that pulls the various threads of Grant's story together is the work of  Nicholas Trist, a fictional newspaper reporter who lost an arm fighting  under Grant at Cold Harbor, and, needless to say, is ambivalent about his  former commander. Trist is a totally believable creation and a very  sympathetic character. Through his eyes the reader gets to experience a  wide variety of Grant's contemporaries, including Henry Adams and William  T. Sherman, whose commentary not only advances the story of Grant but also  illuminates the many conflicting forces at work in American society at the  time. This is an absolutely fascinating book and I was really sorry to see  it end. Grant's final triumph - recovering his family's fortune and fallen  honor by publishing his memoirs, written as he was dying of throat cancer -  is as amazing a turn around as any plot twist in fiction, and much more  satisfying.also  illuminates the many conflicting forces at work in American society at the  time. This is an absolutely fascinating book and I was really sorry to see  it end. Grant's final triumph - recovering his family's fortune and fallen  honor by publishing his memoirs, written as he was dying of throat cancer -  is as amazing a turn around as any plot twist in fiction, and much more  satisfying.	2000-09-09
US	50940744	R351AWLKT4HI5V	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A new twist for Leonard	One of the joys of Elmore Leonard's books is that one can always predict  certain things about them and yet he always surprises. The surprises aren't  always good and the books don't always work, but he is so dead on often  enough that I automatically buy any new book he publishes. In Pagan Babies  he presents what is in many ways the typical Elmore Leonard crime story of  inept crooks, betrayal, misplaced affection, and unanticipated outcomes but  he departs from his tradition by having part of the book set in Rawanda  after the bitter period of genocide. &quot;Father&quot; Terry Dunn, a  pretend priest half-heartedly ministering to a flock severly depleted by  murder, returns to the U.S. to settle an outstanding felony charge against  him. He joins forces with a bitter ex-con who served three years for trying  to kill the husband who defrauded her, and they set out to try a scheme  that will get her money back and provide money for the orphanage in Africa  that still haunts him. Mixed into the stew is a larcinous friend of Terry's  who feels that he is owed $10,000 for his part in the crime that caused  Terry to have to flee the country, a simple minded Hoosier hitman named  Mutt, the sleez ex-husband, and various mobsters. The plot is tight, the  dialoge is vintage Leonard, and the resolution to the story, while  anticipated in part, has enough surprises and ironic twists to be  satisfying.<br />I have to say, however, that as much as I enjoyed the book,  it seemed to lack the zest and energy that Leonard's best books embody.  There was a certain flatness to many of the scenes, as was true in his  historical novel Cuba Libre. Since the story seems to leave a number of the  characters embarking on new endeavors, I expect we will see them again in  future books. I hope so. I would hate to not find out what happens to  Debbie Dewey and her career as a stand-up comic. And Mutt is just too good  a character to dump. I'm already looking forward to the next novel,  whatever Leonard chooses it to be.ever Leonard chooses it to be.	2000-09-06
US	50940744	R3G7LWEKEGW2P1	0385492529	282597222	Tides of War: A Novel of Alcibiades and the Peloponnesian War	Books	5	20	26	N	N	If it weren't true it would be hard to believe	Those who have read Pressfield's previous book, Gates of Fire, will have a hard time recognizing this novel as being the same author's work. Whereas that one was focused on a single battle and thus had a limited time and  place imposed on the action, Tides of War deals with the entire  Peloponnesian war (all 27 years) and is all over the place in both time and  location. One problem, for sure, for many readers will be the 'voice' of  the story. It is told by someone who gets it from his grandfather who  largly recounts what he remembers being told by a prisoner awaiting trail  for murder more than 30 years before. Who is talking - and about what and  when - is occasionaly a problem, but not much of one. It is usually clear  from context and the story itself is so fascinating that it is hard to  imagine not getting caught up in it. This is really the story of  Alcibiades, the most complex (and 'modern') figure of the Golden Age of  Athens. A man noted for his beauty, eloquence, intelligence, brashness,  inventiveness, lawlessness and, above all, ambition, he almost single  handedly forced the war between Sparta and Athens to become the grueling  feud that ruined both. I will not attempt to recount his deeds and  misdeeds. They are so fascinating that it is hard to credit them. He  becomes the most loved, hated and feared figure of his day. Most of Tides  of War is the story of Palemidas, the man who had been his friend, served  him in war and ultimately assasinated him when Alcabiades was an expatriate  living in Thrayce. It is a truely great story and Pressfield does it  justice. There is no question that it is hard to keep track of changing  alliances, reversing fortunes of war and politics and the many characters  that cross the stage he sets for the reader, but all of it is interesting  and much of it is very moving. This is a powereful and honest book which,  by bringing war torn Greece of these days alive, tells us a lot about who  we are today and how little we have advanced in understanding and political  maturity.<br />The side story of Socrates, who languishes in the same jail as  the story's  main narrator, serves as the proverbial 'Greek Chorus' to help  highlight important aspects of Alcibiades' story. This is a wonder book and  I highly recommend it.e have advanced in understanding and political  maturity. <br />The side story of Socrates, who languishes in the same jail as  the story's  main narrator, serves as the proverbial 'Greek Chorus' to help  highlight important aspects of Alcibiades' story. This is a wonder book and  I highly recommend it.	2000-06-12
US	50940744	R3K6ZAYM53HPY3	0671001167	206100439	Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Gus and Call without the humor	Larry McMurtry's Dead Man's Walk, the original perquel to Lonesome Dove, features that book's main characters when they were just youngsters and had first joined the Texas Rangers. Like Lonesome Dove, it is a big book with a  lot of characters and a lot of action, but it differs significantly in that  there is very little humor and the character's stories don't mesh into any  coherent plot line or ultimate resolution. It is in essence a picaresque  novel that kind of wanders around - as do the characters in the story.  While Call and Gus are shown to have the beginnings of the personalities  that would endear them to Lonesome Dove readers, they are also shown as  having little depth and no experience. They really are clueless. And pitted  against the merciless indians they face it is a miracle that they survive.  Of course they have to for the sake of the story but it isn't any talent or  savvy on their own part that makes survival possible.<br />Despite its  limitations, this is still a very interesting book. The action is quite  satisfying even if the characters are not.	2000-06-06
US	50940744	R36CSGVSRT6ULG	0671019929	152856396	Esau	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Not as good as Kerr's best	Philip Kerr is a writer of undeniable skill, but in Esau, his novel combining an expedition in search of the Abominable Snowman with an espionage/thriller subplot, he stretches credulity to the limit and leaves  the reader longing for a more coherent story and more believable  characters. The hero, for example, in order to satisfy his curiosity about  a change in funding recommended by the National Geographic Society for his  proposed expedition, breaks into the headquarters building in downtown  Washington, DC so that he can rummage through the office of one of the  decision makers. Does Kerr really expect that readers will think that  risking a felony B&amp;E charge to satify one's curiosity is normal - or  even OK? There's a lot of over the top stuff like this in the book, and it  makes it hard to relate to.<br />There is no question that Kerr is a writer of  great talent in some ways. His prose is beautiful to the ear and he pulls  off occasional passages as insightful and resonant as anything being  written today. But Esau, taken as a whole, seems like a great idea gone  awry.	2000-06-06
US	50940744	R14TSI2Q1B8MX4	0883940884	53679096	Son of the Morning Star	Books	5	24	25	N	N	And now the rest of the story	Evan Connell's Son of the Morning Star is a masterful book that defies catagorization. It isn't quite history but it isn't fiction either. Connell has taken a mountain of historical detail, including quotations from  letters, transcripts, newspapers and interviews, and arranged them in a  kind of narrative montage that gives us the story of Custer at the Little  Bighorn in a more complete way than we have ever experienced it before. His  book begins a couple of days after the battle - when Custer's absence is  still unexplained - with the discovery of the remains of Custer's troop.  The realization of what they are seeing comes slowly to the soldiers that  find the bodies, just as the big picture of what happened comes slowly to  the reader - detail by detail.<br />The book is full of wonderful  digressions, told in the same way as the main story. These provide  background information on all the major participants (Indian as well as  cavalry officers) and many minor characters as well, and the story of their  lives following the massacre and the inevitable search for a scapegoat.<br />This is a unique and beautiful book. Connell seems to have lived with  the research for this book for a long time because he has internalized it  beautifully and knows just what quotes and anecdotes to juxtapose in order  to create the picture he wants. I can't remember ever reading anything  quite like this and certainly seldom have a book match it for emotional  impact. I would highly recommend this book to anyone.	2000-06-06
US	50940744	R1BH3H6AZWLDKA	0688166385	352393955	Killshot	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Both grim and funny	Killshot remains one of my favorite Elmore Leonard novels despite how much I enjoy his later work. Leonard's writing has gone through a number of stages, and Killshot was written when his tone was darker than his most  recent fiction. The set up of a savvy native American assasin who teams up  - with misgivings - with a small time (incompetent) crook, creates a  situation where failure is almost predictable. This is wonderful writing of  a sort that transcends the typical mystery/thriller. Funny and grotesques  by turns, this is one great read. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R2PW5OI0HRODWE	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A disturbing portrait	Don DeLillo's Libra is by far the most interesting of the several fictional portraits of Lee Harvey Oswald that have been produced. While Norman Mailer's book Oswald is more immediately accesable, DeLillo's  portrait of the reputed assasin is more interesting. In neither book is any  real credible motive offered for the killing of JFK, other than Oswald's  strange (perhaps pathological) sense of his own place in the great scheme  of things. Not to be viewed as contributing to any conspiracy theory, this  story is an effort to get inside the head of a clearly demented soul. I  found it rather fascinating. It didn't offer any explanations, but it did  manage to make Lee Harvey Oswald a real felsh and blood human being to me.  Quite an imaginative achievement. A really remarkable book.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R1S7GYTEZX3RDB	0679426620	543344242	Havana Bay	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Luminous setting - murky plot	Havana Bay, like many of Martin Cruz Smith's books, works becasue he recreates the milieu of his story so well - and because it is so interesting a setting. The plot itself is so dense that it recedes behind  the scenery. Arkady Renko, Russian and self-conscious to the core, stands  out like a sore thumb in Havana. His clothes, his attitude, his singular  search for the truth about what happened to his late 'friend', all set him  apart from those around him and propel him to the less than exciting  conclusion that Cruz serves up for the reader. Far from the best of the  Renko series, Havana Bay is still an interesting story and deserves to be  read. Cruz can conjure up locale and scene better than any writter I know.  If for no other reason than a vicarious trip to contemporary Havana, I  would recommend this book.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R1HH9L6GVU28PP	0345334574	518475272	Dark Green, Bright Red	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Unbelievable when written, commonplace now	Dark Green, Bright Red by Gore Vidal was his second novel, written when he was in his early twenties. This story of a planned revolution in a mythical South American country was probably unbelievable in its day, dealing as it  did does with the involvement of the U.S. governemnt, the United Fruit  Company (under another name) and an up front assumption that Uncle Sam  calls the shots in Central and South America. Unfortunately Vidal does not  go all the way with this story. The 'hero', a former American Army officer  who has left the service under a cloud of suspicion, 'retires' to the  mythical country that is the setting for the story, because his good friend  from WWII is the former President's son. Soon he is caught up in a plot to  bring the former president to power once more, and also involved in an  affair with the former president's daughter. Obviously no good can come of  this, and of course it doesn't. The conclusion is to be expected and the  main character leaves the story having experienced much but seemingly  having learned little.There is a lot of interest here, especially the clear  view that Vidal has of the role played in Latin American relations by  entities such as the United Fruit Company and the willingness of the U.S.  Government to go to great lenghts to support them. It would be decades  before the public at large would recognize this as true. For this alone the  book is worth reading.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R21D1WY5LOY4C3	0440224071	64914490	Los Alamos	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A great period piece	Joseph Kanon's novel Los Alamos is a wonderful period piece that uses the almost unbelievable setting of the Manhattan Project as the basis for a mystery and love story that, because of the situation and time, are more  significant than would otherwise be the case. The blending of real and  fictional characters in what is one of the centuries most fascinating  stories makes for a gripping tale that has much to recommend it. This is a  fascinating story and led me to unexpected hours of research on the actual  history of the Manhbattan Project just to check things out. I think any  American with a even a slight interest in our recent history would find  this book fascinating. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R1P1OAX6UPGDCZ	0399145796	170689845	All Tomorrow's Parties	Books	4	4	5	N	N	If this is a party, do we really want to come?	OK, so this is not the best of William Gibson's work, so what? He is still unique in his ability to bring to life the near future in its commercial, pop culture, and base aspects. His familiar cast of characters, amended  with the addition of an idiot savant watch/clock enthusiast and a  collection of good-guy/bad-guy types with attitude (and character) make  this an arresting story. The eye for detail that Gibson casts over the  'ordinary' world that allows him to extrabpolate into the future so  convincingly also allows him to create a story that is fast paced and  believable. Just his vision of the replacement of 7/11 in the future is  worth the trip - not to mention the great climax on the Golden Gate Bridge.  Come on, folks. If you like what Gibson has served up before, how can you  not appreciate this story of (almost) ordinary folks caught up in a  conflict they can hardly understand? This is really good writing and great  (and intelligent) entertainment.	2000-05-29
US	50940744	R27YI340Q11Z03	0393310310	605935235	Uncommon Therapy: The Psychiatric Techniques of Milton H. Erickson, M.D.	Books	5	70	74	N	N	Introduction to a unique and healer	Those who don't know of the work of Milton Erickson have missed out on one of the more interesting tributaries of the stream of modern psychotherpy. Erickson didn't do much about actually formalizing his approach to therapy  in a systematic way and that has fallen to others, notably Jay Haley. What  fascinates Haley, and will surely fascniate the reader, is Erickson's  unique and unorthodox approach to dealing with psychological problems. He  ignores the underlying casuse and goes straight for eliminating the  disturbing symtoms. He believes that it is a lot easier to help people heal  if they are not currently in pain (psychological or physical). He is a  genius at devising ways to short circuit his patient's problem behavior.  The case histories are stunning little vignettes that in many cases cause  one to laugh out loud.<br />Erickson uses many cognitive techniques,  including some versions of hypnosis and suggestion that are of his own  devising. This is simply fascinating reading and one doesn't have to be a  therapist or even particulary interested in psychotherapy to appreciate  this book. It holds a lamp up to a lot that is human but  disturbing in all  of us. There is much we can learn here. It is also just plain fun.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R2LFCE5NY72W01	0312200811	480847602	The 13th Valley	Books	4	51	52	N	N	One of the great Viet Nam books	If one were compiling a list of great novels dealing with the Viet Nam War, I believe that John M. Del Vecchio's harsh and gripping novel of infantry combat, The 13th Valley, would have a high place on that list. It  is one of those novels that seems so realistic, both in its presentation of  character and in the action (which literally wears the reader down just as  it does the soldiers who are at the heart of the story). Unlike the view of  Viet Nam taken in such books as Stone's Dog Soldiers and the movie  &quot;Apocalypse Now&quot;, this story doesn't dwell on the fringe  craziness of drugs, secret missions or exaggerated characters for the sake  of social commentary. It focuses on the lives of grunts in the bush and how  they are transformed by the harsh reality of repeatedly facing and  delivering death as their daily job. The universal questions don't have to  be asked. They are implicit in the life or death struggle that Del Vecchio  recounts so well. This is a stunning book; harsh, gritty, realistic,  touching and disturbing. I you thought there was anything romantic or  &quot;exciting&quot; about this war, you won't after experiencing this  book. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R1FY7G0RT5LDXU	0819561444	980877270	Life Against Death: The Psychoanalytical Meaning of History	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A primitive Freudian looks at history and culture	Norman O. Brown was, for a few years during the sixties, a man with a cult following. His book Life Against Death, which can hardly be described in simple terms, had influence on both political processes and the sexual  freedom movement. He popularized the term &quot;polymorphosly  perverse&quot; to describe natural childhood sexuality before it has been  channeled into the predictable forms of genitle sex. He argued that money  had its origins in a child's natural interest in its feces. He managed, in  this book, to turn everything we take for granted about normal life on its  head.<br />No question this is a very liberating book in a lot of ways. It is  very well written and his arguments present a kind of proof by authority -  he states his case so well you just darn better believe him. I can't recall  another book like this, that works so many themes simultaneoulsy. I can't  read it without wanting to stop and quote sections to whoever is around to  hear. I can't say that I really believe any of his argument, but like Alan  Watts, he manages to make his case seem so plausible and desirable that I  really wish I did.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R2JLX55AXZGDTV	155597256X	427328276	Burning Down the House: Essays on Fiction	Books	4	58	59	N	N	A fiction writer's view of contemporary fiction	Burning Down the House: Essays on Fiction by Charles Baxter is a refreshingly broad take on a number of issues facing writers and readers of serious fiction today. The title reminds me of a story Harry Crews once  told concerning his early days learning the craft of fiction. He had given  an early story to his teacher, Alan Tate, and when he asked what Tate  thought of it he got the reply that &quot;Fire is a great purifier&quot; -  so went home, burned his story and started over. Baxter seems to want to  burn away a lot of what has come to dominate the literary scene. He bemoans  the lack of real antagonists and villians in what he refers to as  &quot;dysfunctional&quot; fiction. He decries the passive voice and  ambiguos tone that writing in which no one is really accountable (which he  blames largely on the polictical rhetoric of Nixon, Reagan,and Busch which  he says has robbed the public of the proper 'story' of the last few  decades).<br />This book of essays is enjoyable on a number of levels. One of  my favorite chapters is the one in which he contrasts fiction writers with  poets. This chapter is full of broad and exaggerated generalizations (which  he has foretold and apologized for in advance) which are both thought  provoking and often very funny. The chapter on melodrama is also very  insightful and harking back to an earlier essay about dysfunctional fiction  in which the characters are all victims and no one is a clear protagonist  or antagonist, he shows how pure evil (a clear cut villian) is the  essential ingrediant in melodrama and that is why melodrama continues to  interest readers while lots of serious fiction doesn't register. He further  shows how melodrama underpins some of the great fiction - using Chekov,  that most unmelodramatic writer, as an example.<br />I really enjoyed this  book and read it at one sitting - which is probably not good. There is so  much that is thought provoking in these essays that they deserve more time  and a lot of rumination. I highly recommend it for anyone interested in  serious fiction today. It will give you a lot to think about.of rumination. I highly recommend it for anyone interested in  serious fiction today. It will give you a lot to think about.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R3TJVF1PPVUQKY	0393006115	690824010	The Psychopathology of Everyday Life (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Nothing is accidental?	Once upon a time I read Freud seriously, in search of some understanding of human behavior. Now I only dip into a few of his books periodically because his thought process is so fascinating. His book The Psychopathology  of Everyday Life is more interesting and accessable than many of his  writings, though his style does not make for an easy read. It is in this  book that Freud takes up the issue of all the little things that go wrong  which we have tended to think of as accidents and mistakes. To Freud, most,  if not all incidents of things forgotten, lost, dropped etc are examples of  hidden dynamics of the psyche playing out in the real world. His arguments  can be very strained and he extrapolates very broadly from a few anecdotes  and case histories. This isn't scientific thought, but it is very  interesting nonetheless. If you took him at face value, you would have to  conclude that we all need an analyst - which is exactly what he thought.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R11XI6LGSBKECF	0877971773	401852041	The Education of Henry Adams	Books	5	45	52	N	N	An uneven but rich take on a world in transition	Its funny how some reading experiences emcompass more than just the book itself. In the case of Henry Adams autobiographical essay collection, The Education of Henry Adams, I always think of a sunny day in the park. The  first time I read the book I was still in High School and believed that I  had an obligation to read all those books that had been identified as  &quot;classics&quot;. This was one. I read most of it one afternoon while  sitting under a large oak tree in Shelby Park in Nashville, TN. I remember  contrasting the gloom and pessimism of Adams thought with the sunny day and  the optimistic prospects I believed the future held for me. I argued with  him as I read. I thought his reaction to Darwin, for example, was misplaced  and in bad faith. I thoroughly disagreed with his argument in the chapter  &quot;The Virgin and the Dynamo&quot;; I felt I knew enough about the  Middle Ages to prefer living in a time of electric lights, running water,  medical science and imperfect democracy than in a hovel in some Medieval  village dominated by King and the Roman Catholic Church. I dismissed Henry  Adams as a whiner and an educated misfit who had nothing to say to  me.<br />Its also funny how the passage of time changes one's perceptions.  Rereading the book a couple of decades later I was surprised to find how  much Adams and I had in common. I still didn't agree with his particular  nostalgia for a time he had never experienced except in his imagination,  but his sense of loss, of powerlessness, of the world slipping into some  dangerous entropic state, all rang true to me. I also had read enough  history of the 19th Century to appreciate more his many insightful  anecdotes of the period. The subtlety of his humor and the richness of his  writing style I also found appealing. I found this reading to be a much  more rewarding experience - and I can't tell you a thing about where I was  at the time, except deeply into the book.	2000-05-26
US	50940744	R1KHMRJHKHZ47N	051512429X	904036403	Counterparts	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A very sophisticated, complex first novel	Gonzalo Lira's Counterparts is a dynamite read. It is so rare to find something new in the thriller genre and it is especially surprising in a first novel. Lira writes about the FBI and CIA like a veteran. The plot is  complex and full of real surprises - and some rather ODD moments. All the  characters are interesting creations. They are all extreme in one way or  another, but fleshed out and made believable by the story. Margaret  Chisholm, the FBI agent with major attitude and Nicholas Denton, the CIA  'bureaucrat' who is anything but what he seems, are forced to team up in  the quest for Sepsis, a precocious assassin who is currently targeting a  nun who is about to work on the restoration of St. Peters in Rome.  The  book starts with a bang and never lets up. There are some false notes: a  peculiar use of colloguialisms which seem inappropriate now and then, an  exrtra push in some of the violent scenes that seems gratuitous and actions  which beg for some explanation or follow through in the plot which is not  forthcoming.<br />Nevertheless, this is an intelligent, cynical, creative book  that captures a reader's attention and delights the imagination. It isn't  perfect, but it has so many good things going for it that it's hard not to  like. I enjoyed it a lot and am looking forward to Lira's next book.	2000-05-25
US	50940744	R2FWS4FDCLSO09	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good, solid Hiaasen	Carl Hiaasen's book Sick Puppy is not going to take any of Hiaasen fans by surprise. It is solidly in the vein he has been mining for years - setting up those environmental bad guys and subjecting them to a well deserved  comeuppance. In this story the main heavy is Palmer Stoat, a developer,  schemer and political fixer whose litterbug habits bring him to the  attention of Twilly Spree, a rich, short tempered environmental fanatic.  Twilly's efforts to teach Palmer Stoat a lesson propel a plot that quickly  sprials into bizarre complexity. The supporting cast of characters -  especially Mr. Gash, an assasin who is addicted to horrific 911 calls - is  as good as any Hiaasen has ever assembled, and the grizzly humor and action  filled plot are neatly balanced to provide one of the most successful  Hiaasen books in recent years.<br />What didn't work for me was the  reappearance of one of Hiaasen's best characters, &quot;Skink&quot;. He is  such a strange and interesting creation that it is hard to use him in a  minor way. He wants to take over whatever story he is in and it takes away  from the central characters and action. Also, I could never be sure how I  really felt about Stoat's wife, Desie. To me, that says that Hiaasen wasn't  sure how he felt either.<br />All things considered, this is one very  entertaining book. The dialogue is always good. The characters are all  exaggerated just enough for Hiaasen's larger than life comic morality play.  And no matter how farfetched the plot, the reader still gets caught up in  the action. This is not the best of Hiaasen but it will surely do.	2000-05-24
US	50940744	RNIR90VYK6JJL	0451173139	464602444	Night Over Water	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A pale, period melodrama	Ken Follett is one of those uneven writers who is just as likely to publish a great book as a mediocre one. Unfortunately, this is a mediocre one. In fact, it reminded me a great deal of those early WWII 'B' movies  that studios used to turn out every couple of weeks, where the characters  and the plot were pretty predictable and the outcome mostly certain. This  book has some points of interest, mostly historical detail. Follett  obviously has some kind of keen interest in the big flying boats of the  period, but he doesn't use that fascination to advance the story well. The  characters are stereotypes and the action is melodrama. The reader doesn't  come away from this book with much to remember fondly.	2000-05-24
US	50940744	R1DVQ5S2755DWQ	0380973421	373140613	Matter of Honor	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A serious thriller about race and personal integrity	There have been three novels written over the last five years with the title A Matter of Honor. Eugene Izzi's story under that title deals with Chicago in the throes of racial conflict and features a diverse cast of  characters both black and white whose personal agendas intersect in the  tragedy of interracial murder and rioting. The central figures, a white  homicide detective named Del Greco, brilliant at his job but emotionally  remote from an upbringing in foster homes, and his partner Ellis Turner, a  black detective with a loving family who has managed to maintain  persepctive on race despite facing prejudice daily, are pitted against one  another after Del Greco is accussed of racial prejudice and implicated in  the murder of a young black who had murdered Del Greco's niece. The complex  plot involves a background of black political machination, drug dealers  buying influence, crooked lawyers with Mafia ties, a white supremicist  organization called the ACK (Ayrian Christian Kinsman), sexual politics  among the police, murder for hire, friendship, family ties, and enough  quick turns to make the reader's head spin. Ultimately the plot -  especially in its denouement - is so complicated and strained as to be  unbelievable, but this does not detract from the book's power. The  character's, even minor ones, are so good and so believably drawn, that the  reader just has to know what happens to them.<br />The book does tend to be  somewhat wordy, spending a lot of time probbing various character's  thoughts and feelings. But this is handled very well and the information  that we get is key to both understanding who these people are and why they  behave as they do. This is, despite being a mystery/thriller, a very  thoughtful and intelligent book about human emotions and the strengths and  weaknesses of the human spirit. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-23
US	50940744	R37CWRLAHT9G0J	0399145680	482366696	Secret Honor (Honor Bound)	Books	3	11	17	N	N	A disappointment	The third installment in W. E. B. Griffin's 'Honor' series is going to be something of a disappointment to anyone who expects the same level of excitement as the first couple of books delivered. This continuation of the  story of Cletus Frade and his rather large cast of co-stars seems much more  like some domestic melodrama, with the emphasis on shootgun weddings,  marriages, receptions and the ongoing muddle of Argentine politics. There  were some points of interest; Juan Peron continues as a character, playing  a more central - though not very interesting - role, and Evita Duerte  (Peron)is introduced, though, again, nothing much is done with the  character. At book's end we don't have the sense of a real conclusion and  there will almost certainly be a sequel, although I can't imagine why. This  story has played out. Enough already. It's hard to take an espionage story  seriously when the lead character goes home at night and tells his wife  everything he did that day at work. Now that Cletus and &quot;Galahad&quot;  are both married off and expecting little ones, where can the story go?	2000-05-21
US	50940744	RBGMR8QWTQDOL	078610287X	237012102	Story of Philosophy	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Philosophy can be fun	Will Durant is unique in the world of those who write about complex ideas and events in that I know of no one else who is so skillfull at making the difficult understandable and memorable. His writing style is simple without  being simplistic. He writes with humor and authority and manages to sweep  the reader up in the passion of his writing. In Story of Philosophy he uses  the lives and thought of the West's leading philosophers to sketch a  history of how western civilization shapes and is shapped by the formal  philosophical theories that great minds have developed to explain how we  know, how we should live, and what 'really is'.<br />This is not a book that  will give the reader a full picture of any one philosopher's works or  ideas, though it is a good introduction to the main figures of western  philosophy. But it does a great job of showing connections and influences  and the threads that eventually are woven into new insights. Very pleasant  and worthwhile reading. I would highly recommend it for anyone who enjoys a  book that makes one think.	2000-05-18
US	50940744	R314MJNUKU5O1W	0515121940	382576926	Blood and Honor (Honor Bound, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A large, messy but fun WWII espionage thriller	Blood and Honor is, like most of W.E.B. Griffin's novels, a complex story with numerous characters and enough specific detail to firmly ground the story in a particular time and place. The time is 1943 and the place is  Buenos Aires, Argentina where certain Nazis hope to secret a hoard of  stolen wealth that will support them if Germany loses the war. Pitted  against them are members of the American OSS including the lead character  who is American on his father's side and Argentinan on his mother's. Caught  in the middel of the Nazis and American spys are the local security police  who are contending, among other things, with a brewing plot to depose the  president and put a general in charge of the government. This plot is  widely enough known so that both the Germans and the Americans have a  vested interest in seeing that a general favorable to themselves is  selected. Besides this, there is a personal revenge element, romance and  sex and a huge cast of interesting good guys and bad guys. So, big plot,  big book.<br />It took me a while to get into this story because it takes  Griffin so long to set up all the pieces. There are really several stories  all going on at once that sometimes intersect and sometimes are  independent. Once in the thick of things, however, it moves swiftly through  its various twists and turns, all leading to a pretty satisfactory  conclusion. It's not totally satisfactory because it leaves enough loose  ends to allow for a sequel, and the reader would rather have them wrapped  up and not have to wait. Still, this is a very entertaining book and I  recommend it to any who like a good OSS vs Nazi story set in an unusual  locale.	2000-05-18
US	50940744	R2D4EQ09WGXTE1	0452275725	978016456	World's Fair	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A wonderful evocation of New York in the 1930's	We expect that Doctorow will use some piece of New York City's past as the setting for each of his novels but we also expect that he will give us a story with drama, tragedy or some wry take on the human comedy. In World's  Fair he only gives us the view of time past. There is precious little story  in this book. It deals with a young boy and his family during the 1930's  and concerns itself mostly with ordinary life and the ups and downs of  family relations. The story is mostly told by the younger son (who is nine  at book's end) as he recounts his earliest memories, preoccupations,  dreams, friends, illnesses and enthusiasms, but other characters (his  mother, older brother and aunt) all have chapters in which they 'remember'  the story from their own point of view. Yet if the plot is thin, the sense  of reality generated by the writing is substantial. Doctorow uses the  ordinary life of his characters to reflect and represent the broader story  of the Great Depression, the rise of Nazi Germany, the extreme political  divisions of the time, the fear of impending war and the great hope in a  bright and shiney future free of the dark menace of poverty and repression.<br />This book kept me focused from the first few sentences. It doesn't  demand a lot from the reader but it delivers a great deal. I suspect that  there is a great deal of Doctorow himself in his main character. He was  born in 1931, so would have been about the right age to experience the  music, radio shows, games and other experiences that make up his  protagonist's world. He certainly feels strongly about these simple byegone  experiences and manages to convey that to the reader. This is a very  satisfying glimpse into the life of ordinary but interesting people and I  highly recommend it.	2000-05-18
US	50940744	R2K994BUI1BP7C	038072880X	937357785	High Crimes	Books	3	6	9	N	N	High Crimes - against the reader	Joseph Finder's High Crimes begins with an interesting setup: a successful, high profile attorney and Harvard law professor and her husband of a few years, a successful independent broker and financial advisor, are  at dinner with their daughter (her's by a first marriage) when he is  approached by federal agents who attempt to arrest him - after identifying  him by a name she does not recognize. To her horror and surprise, he flees  and she is told that he is wanted for a murder that happened years before  when he went by a different name and had a different life - as a member of  Special Forces. To oversimplify what happens, he is captured and brought to  trial - but in a closed military court. She, of course, winds up  representing him, with the help of a young Army JAG attorney and an ex-army  middle aged black attorney who has a bone to pick with the military style  of justice. What saves the book from being simply an ordinary courtroom  drama are the strange conventions of military justice and the background  plot of top secret skull-duggery.<br />However, as a thriller it is so  predictable that one almost cringes. Knowing that she is in danger, the  heroine still allows herself to be lured into a one-on-one meeting with a  mystery man who asks to meet at a remote mountain restaurant (on a road  barely wide enough for two cars to pass). Get the picture? Know what is  coming? Unfortunately, this kind of all too predictable kind of plotting is  typical of this story. Even the main question of whether or not her husband  is really innocent is easy to predict early on given the heavy hints and  deliberate attempts to divert the reader's attention from obvious  things.<br />The conclusion, intended I am sure as a kind of shocking blend of  the multilayered betrayal of The Spy Who Came In From The Cold and the  quick twist of Presummed Innocent, falls flat because it is so convoluted  and because it is not really a surprise. We see it coming and we know it  won't be pretty. I isn't. And the ending leaves all the human and emotional  questions - reqarding the daughter, Claire's work and the scale and import  of the 'set up' - completely unanswered.<br />I finished this book only  because I was stuck on a train with nothing else to read. I hope the  upcoming movie is better, but the character of the husband will have to be  more believable than he is in the book for it to work. Anyone who finishes  this book and really trys to make sense of the conspiracy that is supposed  to be at the root of the action will have plenty to puzzle over, but little  to comprehend.e pretty. I isn't. And the ending leaves all the human and emotional  questions - reqarding the daughter, Claire's work and the scale and import  of the 'set up' - completely unanswered.<br />I finished this book only  because I was stuck on a train with nothing else to read. I hope the  upcoming movie is better, but the character of the husband will have to be  more believable than he is in the book for it to work. Anyone who finishes  this book and really trys to make sense of the conspiracy that is supposed  to be at the root of the action will have plenty to puzzle over, but little  to comprehend.	2000-05-16
US	50940744	R1IHA1HZ9YT4AL	0451198476	601200183	The Burglar in the Rye: The New Bernie Rhodenbarr Mystery (Bernie Rhodenbarr Mysteries)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The books one hates to love	I really, really, really tried to not like Lawrence Block's Bernie Rhodenbarr series. It represents a genre that I usually have no patience for, the comic mystery. I automatically want to dismiss these books as fluf  and a waste of time. Yet Block is such a great writer that he can take this  formula - a combination of Charlie Chan and Nick and Nora Charles 30's  movie conventions - and create contemporary entertainments that work  DESPITE the artifical conventions (getting all the usual suspects together  at the climax of the story to reveal the murderer), the predictable plot  elements (Bernie stumbling onto a body and being wrongly accused of  murder), the exaggerated character types (the suspicious half-corrupt cop,  the neurotic, lesbian friend etc) and the totally implausible story line.  He does this effortlessly by spinning such a bright, charming screen of  words that the reader is willing to relax and just go along, knowing that  every digression will prove its own reward. Puns, literary allusions,  jokes, embedded quotes and every kind of fine verbal slight-of-hand a  writer could practice on the reader is used by Block to breath life into  the old formula. It works. The reader is quickly seduced by these books and  never cares that they are ultimately unbelievable, because they are so much  fun.<br />In The Burgler in the Rye, Bernie Rhodenbarr, burgler and  antiquarian bookseller, is asked to recover the letters written to a  reclusive literary agent by her even more reclusive main author Gulliver  Fairborn (inspired, it seems, by phantom author J.D. Salinger). But lots of  people want those letters, and when Bernie's B&amp;E job doesn't find the  letters but does uncover a very dead literary agent, the reader knows what  is going to happen. How Bernie manages to extricate himself from a charge  or murder, take care of several subplots and try to make a profit for  himself provides Block plenty of latitude for  creative imagination and  convenient coincidence. The conclusion is the most convoluted in all the  Burgler books I have read, but fun nevertheless. After all, nothing has  been really true to life before it, so why fret at the end?<br />One last  word. The dialogue in these books is, I think, more entertaining than in  any other series. The running conversations in this one between Bernie and  his lesbian, dog-grooming friend Carolyn about whether she is becoming too  feminine are really hysterical. This is really fun reading.idence. The conclusion is the most convoluted in all the  Burgler books I have read, but fun nevertheless. After all, nothing has  been really true to life before it, so why fret at the end?<br />One last  word. The dialogue in these books is, I think, more entertaining than in  any other series. The running conversations in this one between Bernie and  his lesbian, dog-grooming friend Carolyn about whether she is becoming too  feminine are really hysterical. This is really fun reading.	2000-05-12
US	50940744	R5KNHR7FY0FMN	0380712040	477261936	Black Cherry Blues: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	4	119	126	N	N	The first is one of the best	Having read James Lee Burke's entire Dave Robicheaux series, I have to say that this novel, which introduced the flawed ex-cop with the mystical bent, is still one of the best. There are several things about this book that hit  me as unique and made me want to return every time Burke served up another  helping; the first is that Burke's ability with description and locale are  unparalled, the second is the depth of character he was able to give  Robicheaux by focusing on his personal demons (drink, violence and inner  torment from loss and regret), and third is the 'mystical' element that  informs each book - sometimes more than others - and allows the plot to be  advanced by such devices as messages in dreams and intimations of a 'higher  power.' Since Burke himself is a recovering alcoholic he is able to make  this side of Dave's life quite real and moving.<br />This book (which won the  Edgar Award in 1990) differs from later ones in the series in that Dave  strays far afield from the rural Louisiana coast setting readers normally  associate with him. But he is also, in the beginning, a more complex and  interesting character. As the series progresses he becomes stiffer and more  self righteous. Here he is unsure of himself and trying to come to grips  with a life that has him on the ropes.<br />This is some of Burke's best  writing and I would highly recommend it to mystery fans who have never  tasted this rich Louisiana stew. It is unique and memorable.	2000-05-12
US	50940744	R2R2N27RGJ1I9	0679732500	580873109	The Getaway	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Great Pulp Fiction - if your taste runs to Pulp	Jim Thompson is rightly considered a master of pulp fiction, but then that's sort of like recognizing someone as the best of the bush league. Despite his attempts to infuse the story with something like art (the  Kafkaesque last chapter for example) this is a pretty straight forward  crime and escape story. What saves it from being just ordinary is the  strange cast of characters and the bizarre series of situations that the  main character Doc McCoy, a bank robber, and his young wife have to endure  to insure their getaway. The number of things that go wrong is almost comic  and one wonders, early on, if Doc is really as savvy a professional  criminal as he is made out to be.<br />Thompson's language bothered me more in  this book than in most of his others. I don't really know what it is but  there is something about his sentence structure and phrasing that seemed  stiff and artificial. And as mentioned, the pretentious conclusion which  shows Doc and wife in a South of the Border criminal &quot;paradise&quot;  where they are virtual prisoners and conspiring agains one another, could  have been written by Rod Serling for The Twilight Zone.<br />If you have a  taste for the kind of writing that inspired Mickey Spillane and aren't  expecting any great character insights or literary flourishes, you might  enjoy this book. If you are just interested in reading something by  Thompson, try The Grifters. It is a darker, but better, book.	2000-05-12
US	50940744	RUHQ2I65TF1CV	0767900111	965353496	Release 2.0	Books	2	18	19	N	N	We either know this or we still don't	I tried hard to appreciate Esther Dyson's book Release 2.0: A Design for Living in the Digital Age, but failed. Briefly stated, the problem for me is that the topics she deals with, while important, are presented in a  rather bloodless, chatty techno-speak, that either states the obvious or  leaves the reader wondering what she is talking about. I kept going, hoping  to discover what the buzz was about this book but only succeeded in  achieving that brain dead state one can reach after hours of reading  business memos and reports. I didn't find it informative, provocative,  helpful, or clear. Certainly not fun. There are better, less self-centered,  books about the implications of living in a digital age. Dysons 'Design'  reads like it was formulated by committee. I wouldn't want to base my life  on it.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R391REF3HRDU4T	0060193506	716065081	Cybill Disobedience : How I Survived Beauty Pageants, Elvis, Sex, Bruce Willis, Lies, Marriage, Motherhood, Hollywood, and the Irrepressible Urge to Say What I Think	Books	4	85	89	N	N	Who can resist good gossip	I don't normally read celebrity bios but my wife laughed out loud so often while reading Cybill Disobedience by Cybill Shepherd that I just had to see why. I am not a Cybill Shepherd fan, but I enjoyed getting to know her  better in this book, even when she was being clearly self-serving. Her  story is made up of equal parts private history and public image. Image  (her blond, beauty)and its impact on her private history is the dominant  theme of the book. She shows herself constantly trying to overcome the dumb  blond image while, frequently at the same time, using her beauty to seduce  men she should have left alone - because she can? Needs to? Thinks she  needs to?<br />Cybill is a complex woman in many ways and transparent in  others. She was self aware early in her life but late in coming to a sure  understanding of her own worth and power. Lots of missteps and bad moves -  frequently sexual - in between. Her coauthor, Aimee Lee Ball, should  probably be credited with making this story such an easy and entertaining  read. There are recurring elements of self deprecating humor and a lot of  genuinely surprising anecdotes that allow the reader to feel that they are  getting the inside scoop.<br />And for those who don't really care about  Cybill herself but just want the gossip, they won't be disappointed but  will probably wish for more detail. The scenes with ELvis (sad and drugged  up), Don Johnson (a five minute man), and the unnamed stunt men (the  'Cybill Sandwich') are more titillating than revelatory. Still amusing,  however. I would recommend this for anyone who likes enjoys good gossip in  a breezy, bright package.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R3PCK7I7COTW21	0684859262	63597638	Single & Single	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Intelligent, ambiguous and dull	Like all Le Carre novels, Single &amp; Single can be read for the shear beauty of the style, each sentence neatly crafted with well placed and carefully selected words that just beg to be spoken aloud. But beyond that  it has problems. Taking more time than usual to get his story going, Le  Carre launches the reader into a muddy mix of high finance, secret  intelligence, political connivance, treachery and deceit - just the stuff  we expect of his fiction, but embodied in a plot that is so all over the  place that it needs a map to follow it. Unlike the spare, dark constraints  that made The Spy Who Came In From The Cold such a tight and tragic story,  this story seems to have no constraints. The cast of characters is huge  (something he handled well in Smiley's People because the focus of the  story was clear) but their place in the action is not always apparent. The  direction of the plot - while known on one level (locate the crooked banker  Tiger Single, father of the magician ex-spy recruited to help find him, and  answer certain questions about mysterious bank deposits and shodowy  transactions in drugs, money laundering, Russian mafia, etc. - that's  clear, isn't it?) has so many strands it's as though Le Carre took a full  notebook of ideas and tried to use them all at once.<br />Ultimately it  doesn't work. The plot is too convoluted and the conclusion achives neither  the satisfactions of tragedy or melodrama. Further, the lead character,  Oliver Single, is too weak and peculiar a figure to serve as the hero (even  granting that Le Carre intends him to be flawed) of a story that hopes to  achieve so much. His father, the corrupt and selfish Tiger Single is easily  a more interesting character, but not enough is really done with him. He  is, for too much of the book, offstage, while onstage the weaker characters  stumble through one ambiguous situation after another.<br />I will read  anything Le Carre writes and with a certain pleasure even when, as here, he  doesn't achieve the narrative clarity that some of his books have.  But I  could hardly recommend this as an example of him at this best. Not even  close.he  doesn't achieve the narrative clarity that some of his books have.  But I  could hardly recommend this as an example of him at this best. Not even  close.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R3C2U6UTAMERGT	0679760660	410251791	Down in the Zero	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A dark and fascinating psychological thriller	Those who have not read anything by Andrew Vachss have missed out on one of the really original voices in contemporary mystery writing. His recurring hero, Burke, has a shadowy past and an even more shadowy  collection of friends and 'family'. The writing style is spare, the  atmosphere is tense and the plots tend to emphasize a combination of quick  violence and brooding psychological insights.<br />In Down in the Zero, Burke  moves to somewhat unfamiliar territory in tackling the mystery of a rash of  teen suicides. The action, while less ugly than in many of Vachss books, is  typically emotionally charged. Burke is a unique hero - sensitive, flawed  and competently violent when need be.<br />If you've never read Vachss and  enjoy thrillers with a dark edge, give this one a try. It might give you a  taste for more - and he has seven or eight Burke novels, all deserving of  attention.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R28M8HY43MQ4YO	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Creepy and brilliant	Red Dragon, the Thomas Harris novel that introduces Dr. Hannibal Lecter, is a brilliant blend of psychological thriller and police procedural, but the focus of psychological profiling by the FBI would not be nearly as  interesting were not both the killer and his primary nemisis such  interesting characters. Will Graham, the former FBI agent recalled to deal  with a serial killer of families, is a psychologically crippled man.  Physically injured in his attempt to arrest Hannibal 'the cannibal' Lecter  and psychologically scared from the constant proximity of ugly death, he  had fled the FBI hoping not to ever have to face that horror again. But he  has a gift - an unwelcome gift - he can 'feel' his way into the mind of a  killer. One of the creepiest scenes in the book has him inhabiting a crime  scene where a family was cruelly murdered and imagining what the killer saw  and why he wanted to see it that way. The killer himself, Francis  Dolarhyde, is equally fascinating. A worker in a photo shop, he selects his  victims from watching their home movies. He also has a secret delusional  world, which the killings are ceremonial fodder for. Lecter, himself, plays  only a minor but important role.<br />Harris is a very good writter and  occasionally achieves brilliance in scenes that, when they were written,  were like nothing thriller readers had ever experienced before. With this  book and Silence of the Lambs, he single handedly created the psycho/serial  killer sub genre that flooded the mystery market in recent years. But he  was first and best at this kind of thing.<br />The only thing I can fault the  book for is the very artificial set of false conclusions at the end of the  story. The repeated scenes after which one might expect THE END only to  have another brush with the villain, strained credulity and seemed forced  after the powerful story leading up to it. That said, this is a great read  - and lingers in the memory for a long time.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R28XRJBB684F4S	068814179X	148832051	Hit Man	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Well written pathology	It grieves me to have to give a Lawrence Block book anything less than four or five stars. Block has provided some of the best light reading I have ever known and continues to do so, but not in this book. All his many  skills as a writer are in evidence, but the book ultimately doesn't satisfy  - me, anyway. The book is really like a collection of interconnected short  stories, each dealing with a contract that Keller, the 'hitman' of the  title, must perform. Like traditional war and crime comic books, each story  has a central theme or moral and I think that is a limitation rather than a  strength. The book felt like a kind of writing exercise - an experiment in  giving some human dimension to a professional murderer, yet however much  internal dialogue we hear and however philosophical his musings may be, he  still murders with no apparant sense of the enormity of the deed. This  separates this character so fundamentally from most of us that it's hard to  imagine how most readers relate to Keller unless they have become so  desensitized to killing that it doesn't register. Even Matt Scudder,  Block's most down and dirty character, suffers guilt and regret when he has  to kill.<br />I found reading this book an interesting - but disturbing -  experience. If Block gives us more Keller books, I will pass.	2000-05-11
US	50940744	R3OZRZDA0CVECE	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	4	8	11	N	N	An intelligent tease but no real climax	The Club Dumas is an interesting exercise in the craft of fiction. It tries, ultimately unsuccessfully I think, to blend a complex, deliberately artificial mystery plot with a number of elements of more serious fiction  that are simply diminished by the artifice. An interesting cast of  characters (especially Lucas Corso, the book hunter) is set in motion with  multiple, seemingly unrelated, objectives which, over the course of the  novel, come together in unexpected ways. There are multiple mysteries to  solve and nothing is really as it seems. The reader is titillated  constantly and kept expectant and in the dark. It isn't until the last few  pages of the book that the mystery(s) are resolved - one after another in a  cascading sequence of not very satisfactory revelations.<br />That being  said, it is important to note that I enjoyed almost every page of this  book. From the inside information on antiquarian book dealers and forgers  to the details of Alexander Dumas's working habits to all the esoteric  details of Satanic manuscripts from the Middle Ages, the story is packed  with detail that few book lovers can avoid finding interesting. But the  story itself is ultimately unconvincing and the reader is left with very  little emotional investment in the fate of the characters.<br />If one  doesn't mind an artful tease, knowing that the book won't go all the way,  then this is still an interesting, if not satisfying, reading experience.	2000-05-10
US	50940744	R3OK38K6ZK68I3	0789448904	914394994	London (Doerling Kindersley Travel Guides)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	The best travel guide you could buy	When my wife and I take a trip to Europe, we always buy more guidebooks than any sensible person would want. The one that always gets used - over and over - is the DK Eyewitness Travel Guide. The one for London is  excellent but we have also used the guidebooks for Rome and Paris with  equally satisfactory results. What is great about these books is the  careful combination of text and pictures. The traveller can get a  &quot;feel&quot; for the city in advance, so that once on site there is a  comfortable familiarity with the terrain. The maps are excellent and the  3-D breakout views of museums and other sites of interest are quite  helpful. And the book doesn't skimp on that information that all  traveller's need  when visiting a foreign country - practical information  about currency, custom, emergency help, precautions, transportation,  entertainment options, plus lists of recommended hotels, restaurants and  sites of interest.<br />And even after the trip, this book stays on the  bookshelf to be taken down whenever we need a reminder of what we saw and  did. Printed on high quality stock and beautifully illustrated, these  guidebooks are a pleasure to browse at any time. If you plan to visit  London, and don't know the town well, get this book. You'll be glad to have  it before, during and after the trip.	2000-05-09
US	50940744	R1RNPUW5W6HHVS	0679728228	969362924	A Man for All Seasons: A Play in Two Acts	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The play of the mind	The exceptionally talented Robert Bolt, who wrote the very literate and memorable screenplay for Lawrence of Arabia, turns his attention in &quot;A Man for All Seasons&quot; to the conflict between Sir Thomas More and King Henry VIII over the question of Henry's marriage to Anne Boleyn and the  subsequent creation of the Church of England in order to jusify it. More  believes that the marriage is not legal and that attacks on the church are  not justified, and cannot make himself swear the mandated oath recognizing  Henry as the head of the church in England. Since More is Chancellor and  one of Henry's chief advisors, this sets the stage for that well known  conflict that ends with More being beheaded.<br />The miracle that Bolt  achieves with this play is to bring alive the conflict of ideas and  principle that the mundane question of Henry's irregular marriage  occasioned. This is a wordy play, but Bolt is a master of words, and there  are enough pithy and memorable exchanges here to fill a book of quotations.  The real historical characters were fascinating, and if Bolt has  streamlined the story and simplified some of the rough spots that just  serves to heighten the dramatic intensity of the inevitable tragic end. As  a man of consience, More cannot renounce his faith. He is torn between  serving a King to whom he owes allegiance and saving his soul, and the King  gives him no out. Even after renouncing his office and refusing to make any  public statement about the marriage he is hounded by the King's menions and  finally imprisoned in the Tower of London.<br />The cast of characters that  seal his fate are not - with the possible exception of Cromwell - evil men.  The King is selfish but willing to forgive if More will take the oath.  Richard Rich, More's former student whose perjured testimony finally  condemns him, is merely venal and willing to sell his self-respect for  advancement. More's best friend, who goes along just to be left alone,  simply doesn't want to risk his life and title and can't understand More's  stance. Even his family has trouble coming to terms with why he will not  bend. Knowing from the beginning how this will all end adds a layer of  complexity to the actions of those characters who try to influence More  and/or benefit themselves.<br />Finally, to return to the language of the  play, this is really great writing of a particular kind. Bolt has the  ability to sum up complex arguments in a few telling phrases and to find  memorable turns of speech that make actors want to say the words and  audience members want to hear them. This is simply one of the best plays of  its kind ever written and I can't imagine it ceasing to be performed.t want to risk his life and title and can't understand More's  stance. Even his family has trouble coming to terms with why he will not  bend. Knowing from the beginning how this will all end adds a layer of  complexity to the actions of those characters who try to influence More  and/or benefit themselves. <br />Finally, to return to the language of the  play, this is really great writing of a particular kind. Bolt has the  ability to sum up complex arguments in a few telling phrases and to find  memorable turns of speech that make actors want to say the words and  audience members want to hear them. This is simply one of the best plays of  its kind ever written and I can't imagine it ceasing to be performed.	2000-05-09
US	50940744	R12LIO5GAATZSO	0684867192	792974017	Scandalmonger: A Novel	Books	4	34	35	N	N	The more things change the more they stay the same	William Safire's novel Scandalmonger brings to life the clash between the press and politicians two centuries ago, and in doing so holds up a mirror to our own times. It is not likely to be a surprise to readers that the Founding Fathers were as subject to human failures as politicians in our  own time or that the press, then as now, was more concerned with sales than  with truth. What is fresh and novel about this book is the focus on James  Callender, the &quot;scandalmonger&quot; whose writings break the stories  that impact the political fortunes of Alexander Hamilton and Thomas  Jefferson, and Maria Reynolds, who was central to both one of the scandals  (having had affairs with both Hamilton and Burr) as well as becoming  central to Callender's bleak life. What fascinated me was how unbelievable,  yet demonstrably true, this story is. Relying heavily on letters, journals  and published documents of the time, Safire recreates a story of clashing  political ambitions, illicit sex, corruption in high places, coverup,  deception and murder.<br />Callender, a refugee from press persecution in  Scotland and down on his luck, is selected to break the story of Alexander  Hamilton's supposed financial impropriaties at the Treasury Department.  This becomes a fascinating story when the &quot;facts&quot; of the case  intersect with Hamilton's secret sexual relationship with the wife of his  supposed accomplice and he allows the sexual scandal to be used to coverup  (and &quot;explain&quot;) the financial one. To oversimplify the book's  complex story lines, Callender goes from success with his Hamilton expose  to being the subject of government pressure to silence him. The Sedition  laws are passed. He is charged, tried and imprisoned, but this just makes  him more popular and his writings, secreted out of prison by visitors, are  published and republished across the country. He believes that when  Jefferson is elected President, due in no small part to Callender's efforts  at embarrasing the party then in power, that he will be rewarded and has  even picked out a modest post that would grant him and his young children a  predictable income. But that is not to be, and believing himself abandoned  by those he had worked so hard for, he turns his pen against them. The  result is the Sally Hemings revelations that charge Jefferson with having a  black mistress with whom he fathered many children. That story, of course,  continues to this day. The story of James Callender ended shortly after and  until this book was forgotten except for historians.<br />Unlike one of Gore  Vidal's historical novels that lavish attention on character and place,  this book is long on talk and short on description. But the talk, because  it is based so often on the character's actual words from letters or  diaries, is often quite good. The overall style is somewhat stiffer than I  would have expected but perhaps Safire felt he had to try and match the  tone of the character's conversations. The portaits of both Hamilton and  Burr that emerge are fascinating, but Jefferson and Washington both come  off seeming rather cool and remote, perhaps both, in their own ways, rather  Machiavellian.<br />This is a book I expect to reread from time to time. For  anyone interested in the history of American politics, or in seeing a more  human side of our Founding Fathers, I highly recommend this book.ts  at embarrasing the party then in power, that he will be rewarded and has  even picked out a modest post that would grant him and his young children a  predictable income. But that is not to be, and believing himself abandoned  by those he had worked so hard for, he turns his pen against them. The  result is the Sally Hemings revelations that charge Jefferson with having a  black mistress with whom he fathered many children. That story, of course,  continues to this day. The story of James Callender ended shortly after and  until this book was forgotten except for historians. <br />Unlike one of Gore  Vidal's historical novels that lavish attention on character and place,  this book is long on talk and short on description. But the talk, because  it is based so often on the character's actual words from letters or  diaries, is often quite good. The overall style is somewhat stiffer than I  would have expected but perhaps Safire felt he had to try and match the  tone of the character's conversations. The portaits of both Hamilton and  Burr that emerge are fascinating, but Jefferson and Washington both come  off seeming rather cool and remote, perhaps both, in their own ways, rather  Machiavellian.<br />This is a book I expect to reread from time to time. For  anyone interested in the history of American politics, or in seeing a more  human side of our Founding Fathers, I highly recommend this book.	2000-05-09
US	50940744	RTEPLATIKKGQL	0802135234	923968177	Picasso at the Lapin Agile and Other Plays	Books	5	20	22	N	N	An extremely funny take on serious stuff	Steve Martin has always been a &quot;serious&quot; writer, in that he is interested in using humor to make people think and to highlight ideas in new ways. &quot;Picasso at the LapinAgile&quot; is a delightful piece of theatrical slight of hand wherein he creates the meeting of the century  that never happened between the most influential scientest and the most  influential artist and, after a wonderful setup, does a quantum leap into  the absurd. It's fun to read and on stage (I saw the production at Ford's  Theater in D.C.) it is fantastic.<br />Recently on a trip to Paris I climed  Montmarte Butte to find the site of the Lapin Agile, the bistro in which  Martin's play is set. It is still there and still in business, but alas,  never saw nor will see a coming together of intelligence, talent and ego  such as that envisioned by Steve Martin in this play.This is very smart  comedy but funny enough in other ways to work for most audiences. I highly  recommend it.	2000-05-09
US	50940744	R1U0U2CPGOENMR	0425161293	254394811	Hocus Pocus	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Pure Vonnegut but nothing new	This time out, Vonnegut imagines a near future where prisons are outsourced to the Japanese. He addresses the hypothetical question, &quot;What is the difference between schools and prisons?&quot;, and  doesn't seem to find much fundamental difference - both being represive  institutions that are subject to the whim of the moneyed classes. The humor  and delightful Vonnegut quips are all here. His eye for detail has never  been better and his use of deadpan delivery of skewering observations is  right on. BUT, this is essentially the same kind of stuff that he has been  serving up for decades. To those who are coming to his work fresh this must  be an eye opener, but I suspect to a lot of veteran Vonnegut readers it  will just seem like more of the same. I can't really complain because I  like his style, agree with much of his world view, appreciate his dark  humor and keep coming back for more. But I keep hoping for something that  has the lyrical freshness I found in Slaughterhouse Five or the fierce  apocalyptic fun that was Cat's Cradle. Maybe Vonnegut has just spoiled us  and we want him to top his past success. I'll keep hoping he can.	2000-05-09
US	50940744	R14EAW5LBLVOPL	0375503994	196227364	Shrub: The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	4	15	22	N	N	A more serious Molly Ivens	In this slim political biography of the current governor of Texas, Molly Ivens and her coauthor Lou Dubose, present what they see as the case to be made against George W. Bush as a viable candidate for President of the  United States. Simply put, their argument is that &quot;Shrub&quot; (she  calls his brother, Jeff, &quot;Twig&quot;) doesn't have the intelligence or  administrative skill to be President and that his success in life so far,  both in business and government, is due mostly to his father's (and his  father's friends) influence and intervention at critical junctures in the  younger Bush's life. Ivens doesn't sink to the level of gossip and there is  nothing in the book about specific youthful &quot;mistakes&quot;. The much  rumored sexual escapades and drug use are not part of the story. This book  limits itself to what is on the public record and to the author's comments  on that record. As such, the book is not as funny or entertaining as most  of Iven's work, but that seems to be a deliberate attempt to give the book  a more even tone and balance.<br />Make no mistake. This is a book of  politial propoganda. But then, Ivens always has an agenda, and that agenda  is predictable. If one agrees with it, as I do, then one is favorably  disposed toward her writing. If one doesn't, then probably both the humor  and the argument fails. So, for all you die-hard Democrats out there, if  you want reasons to be enthusiastic about Al Gore, read this book. The  picture of his opponent that emerges in these pages is that of a man  running for office just because he can; a man with no real agenda save to  be elected.<br />For me, the most interesting parts of the book are devoted to  debunking the &quot;Texas miracle&quot; in education and the claims that  Bush makes about contibutions to the environment. The claims are hollow and  the facts speak for themselves. I would highly recommend this book to  anyone who, in the continuing politcal/cultural wars, wants to know their  enemy.know their  enemy.	2000-05-08
US	50940744	R3C8LP31KI8PLI	096751231X	836726723	Danger Close, Second Edition	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A extraordinary look at ordinary life	Danger Close is the personal story of Mike Yon's earlylife. So, who is Mike Yon and why should I care? Danger Close, auniquely written and thought provoking book, answers that question. Mike Yon is, in many respects, an ordinary man, but his approach to life has been anything but ordinary. Born into comfortable middle class circumstances in South Florida, his early life was upended by a series of family tragedies - the death of his mother, his father's business failures, bad subsquent marriage and abusive behavior. But young Mike seems to have dealt with all of this by growing rather than shrinking. He responded to the pain and disruption by seeking to overcome. Having to learn to fight at an early age toughened him up and as a teenager body building became a preoccupation. When it came time for graduation from High School there was no money for college, so he joined the army. Here his taste for risk taking and personal challenge led him to seek admission to Speical Forces. Against all odds he makes it - through every difficult challenge in the selection process - and on the day he is finally accepted into Speical Forces finds himself accused of murder.<br />Actually, the book begins with the situation that leads to the murder charge and then the background is fleshed in. In terms of his story, the book is all over the place, with the kind of random association that one's own thoughts might have. This proves to be no distraction, since the book is so well written and the story proves so interesting. Having started the book by recounting the events that led to his arrest, it becomes all the more interesting to read about who this young man is and what led up to that moment. The lion's share of the book is devoted to his experience in the army. The great detail that is lavished on the &quot;selection&quot; process for Special Forces is fascniating. Yon manages to demystify the Green Beret stereotype while making it all the more impressive as an accomplishment.<br />What actually happens with the murder charge and subsequent fallout from it, I will leave for the reader to discover. But at the heart of this book, the stories that Yon seems to feel strongest about, are simple childhood episodes - memories of his mother, hunting crawfish with his grandfather, school pranks with his High School best friend (and these are wonderful stories). All of these disparate threads are woven together into a book that is part autobiography, part philospohical essay and wholly entertaining.<br />If you want a book that makes you look at life afresh, offers a challenge to complaceny and an affirmation for striving, this is that book. I highly recommend it.at actually happens with the murder charge and subsequent fallout from it, I will leave for the reader to discover. But at the heart of this book, the stories that Yon seems to feel strongest about, are simple childhood episodes - memories of his mother, hunting crawfish with his grandfather, school pranks with his High School best friend (and these are wonderful stories). All of these disparate threads are woven together into a book that is part autobiography, part philospohical essay and wholly entertaining.<br />If you want a book that makes you look at life afresh, offers a challenge to complaceny and an affirmation for striving, this is that book. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-08
US	50940744	R28K6V593NCVDL	1565924274	396047989	UNIX in a Nutshell: System V Edition, 3rd Edition (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	49	51	N	N	The best of its kind	Unix in a Nutshell continues to be the best overall reference book on the Unix operating system. Organized so that all commands and options are easily found and understood, it is an indispensable tool for those who work  in a Unix environment. But it is not just a guide to Unix commands and  their options, it also contains a mass of useful information about the Unix  Shell, shell scripting, text editing and formatting, and much more. Truely  one of the most useful computer reference books I have ever purchased, and  for the money it is the best bargain you will find in the Unix field. I  highly recommend it for all those who work with (or are interested in) Unix  and want just about all the information they could need in one neat  package. A great buy.	2000-05-08
US	50940744	R1WK1XH2MLL5EF	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	28	32	N	N	One of the great &quot;serious&quot; entertainments	Lonesome Dove is that rare thing, a serious novel that is, inall its parts, fabuloulsy entertaining. Larry McMurtry sets himselfthe seemingly impossible task of summing up the entire western genre in one book, and succeeds brilliantly. This novel has every stock western character and plot device: cattle drives, rattlesnakes, Mexican bandits, Texas Rangers, renegade Indians, gamblers, whores (with hearts of gold), riverboat men, wagon trains, sod busters, gun fights, fist fights, hangin', burnin' and much, much more. The book is brilliantly written with both humor and intelligence, causing the reader to care deeply about the fate of the main characters even while laughing out loud at the dialogue.<br />This is the masterpiece of McMurtry's long and distinguished career. No one, not even him, is going to top this as the ultimate western. For those who haven't read it, I can't recommend it highly enough.	2000-05-08
US	50940744	R1XRHSBYMCDTLC	044021632X	253802911	The Angel Maker	Books	3	16	20	N	N	A grim, ugly story	I generally enjoy Ridley Pearson's books but I have to say that I found The Angel Maker more than a little unpleasant. There is, in truth, a grim fascination with the story, but &quot;grim&quot; is the opperative word. I  was never able to escape, while reading this, the oppressive feeling that  Pearson was playing an ugly joke on the reader. To use murdering street  kids for their organs as a premise for a plot, to make clear who the  villain is, and to make the tension of the story revolve around saving one  particular potential victim in time, results in an unsatisfactory blend of  classic melodrama and contemporary urban myth. I read it, but I didn't like  it. Part of the problem, for me, is that I think using kids as victims in  crime drama is a cheap appeal for emotion. While kids frequently are the  victim of vicious crimes, they are more likely to be victimized by their  own family than anonymous psychos and evil doctors.<br />While there is a  story here that many will find sufficiently interesting, I cannot recommend  it.	2000-05-08
US	50940744	R1YTFHLPH11VHT	1565121686	874937184	Fay: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	&quot;Baby Doll&quot; with True Grit	Nobody writes about rednecks and Southern rogues better than Larry Brown. In this big, ambitious book he charts a new variant on previous work, giving the reader a sprawling tale of the down-and-out on the Gulf Coast  which focuses primarily on a female. There are plenty of the 'good ole  boys' that one expects of Brown in ths picaresque tale, but it is Fay's  story. Naturally beautiful and sexy, seventeen year old Fay is also dumber  than a sack of nails and about as passive. She comes by her ignorance  honestly, since she has no real education and has been raised in abject  poverty in a family of migrant workers. Walking away from a life she hates  and fears into a world she knows nothing about, she becomes a lightning rod  for trouble. Mostly man trouble. From initial encounters with a truckload  of drunken young men she progresses through a series of 'adventures' that  quickly become entangled in one another. By the end of the story there is a  trail of wreckage from Oxford to Gulf Shores that includes damaged and dead  bodies, destroyed lives and lost hope.<br />Fay is a complex character and her  story, while disturbing, rings true. There is tragedy here but there is  also a good deal of simple humanity. Fay can be a tough lady when she has  to be, but she has a fundamental sweet side that makes her an easy mark.  The reader keeps wanting to scream, &quot;NO, don't do it&quot; - knowing  full well that she will, will then regret it and have no idea how to make  it OK. True life.<br />I enjoyed this book as much as anything I have read in  ages. It isn't a pleasant book, but characters like Aaron and his brother,  though ugly, are quite real. One of the things I liked best about this  novel was Brown's choice to shift the point of view from player to player,  so that we see the story from the eyes of many characters as it unfolds.<br />Anyone wanting a honest, tough, uncompromising look at humans on the  edge should read this book. I highly recommend it.	2000-05-05
US	50940744	R2HLYBDOBTA6IA	0399143173	176578904	Always Six O'Clock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A mystery/thriller with a human touch	Everyone has something to regret in their past that they would love to be able to relive and make right. In the case of Carl Rooney it is having abandoned his high school sweetheart, Jesse, in a time of need, something  he has regreted for seventeen years. When Jesse appears outside his window  one night, throwing pebbles to wake him and as she used to do when they  were in school, he finds himself falling for her again and confronting a  mystery. Jesse has &quot;lost&quot; the seventeen years and actually  believes they are still teenagers. The mystery of what has happened to her,  where she has been and whether Carl has a chance to make up for his past  mistake, set the stage for the story that follows. Phoef Sutton has crafted  a genre bending tale that is part romance, part mystery/thriller, with a  little comic relief to lighten the dark parts. Sutton, best known as the  award winning writer for &quot;Cheers&quot;, has a great facility with  language and both dialogue and descriptive passages in this book are fun to  read.<br />One might think that using amnesia as a plot device would result  in something resembling a soap opera, but it is redeemed here because the  reader, for Carl's sake, really wants to know what has happened to Jesse.  The mystery aspect of the book works better than the thriller parts, which  are predictable and not that exciting. It is really the human interest  aspect of the story that keeps the reader's attention, and if Carl is  something of a wimp, he's all the more human for that. Jesse turns out to  be the stronger character and the story's resolution, while deliberately  ambiguous, is really right for the people that Carl and Jesse have  become.<br />One thing that puzzled me about the book is that since Sutton is  a sitcom writer and chose to make his main character a sitcom writer, why  did the plot have nothing to do with sitcoms or the entertainment industry?  With his insider's perspective one can only assume that Sutton could write  a trememdously interesting book with the TV industry as the focus of the  story. Something to look forward to, perhaps.<br />I really enjoyed this book  and would recommend it to anyone ready for something just a little  different. I'm hoping that Sutton is working on another.d write  a trememdously interesting book with the TV industry as the focus of the  story. Something to look forward to, perhaps.<br />I really enjoyed this book  and would recommend it to anyone ready for something just a little  different. I'm hoping that Sutton is working on another.	2000-05-05
US	50940744	R1KFB6CY3LXEBN	0380976544	106276458	Garden of Evil	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A fast paced mystery/thriller	I thoroughly enjoyed Garden of Evil, the first Edna Buchanan crime novel that I have read. The protagonist, Britt Montero, a reporter for a Miami newspaper who covers the police beat, obviously owes a great deal to Buchanan's own experience as an award winning crime reporter. The story is  fast, the characters are interesting and the dialogue is crisp. This is the  kind of entertaining read that many readers long for.<br />On the negative  side, the plot is advanced by a series of coincidences that would make  Dickens blush. And the fact that the book deals with a serial killer, at a  time when the public at large is probably getting sick of that very  overused topic, would have been more of a limitation except that this  killer is female and her M.O. - leaving her male victims with their pants  down and their genitals shot off - will strike an emotional chord, though  not the same one, with male and female readers. The ending was something of  an anti-climax after the very long and exciting buildup, but I had so much  fun in the reading of the book that I didn't even think of that until  later.<br />My wife insists that this is far from the best of Buchanan. If  that is true, then her best must be very good indeed. For anyone who likes  their crime fiction fast and on the gritty side, this is very entertaining  fiction.	2000-04-27
US	50940744	RWNXSOE2MQ4OU	0140089691	993689203	Tracer (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A little ado about less	In this slight novella Frederick Barthelme, one of the new generation of serious Southern writers, presents a thin story that covers several days in the breakup of a marriage. Martin, the central character, leaves his home  after his wife declares her intention to divorce him and goes to visit (we  never quite know why)his wife's sister who runs a down-and-out motel on the  Gulf shore of Florida. Almost immediately they begin an affair which, since  they really know nothing about one another, is only a substitute for what  each wants in life at that moment. The wife decides to come visit. Again,  the motivation for this is not clear. She knows about the affair and when  the sisters are together they alternately attack and support one another,  leaving Martin (and, I suspect, the reader)puzzled as to what is going on  and where it is headed. An interesting cast of supporting characters,  including the sister's ex-husband and his eccentric brother, provide the  real interest in the 'story', such as it is.<br />There are arresting images  and colorful dialoge in parts of this book, but nothing binds it all  together into any kind of emotional or intellectual whole. The scenes that  worked best would probably make a good minimalist play. Something like  Pinter with a bit of wry humor. But as a novel, this book is just too thin  in every regard and one reaches the end knowing nothing more about the  central characters than when the book began. It is a promise unfulfilled.	2000-04-26
US	50940744	R2Y7OGSC2Z6HL4	0151002584	75363464	Ingenious Pain	Books	5	13	13	N	N	_Ingenious Pain_ is a complex pleasure	I don't remember ever reading a first novel that captured my attention so completely while simultaneously challenging all of my standard expectations for fiction. Almost everything about this book was a pleasant surprise. Set in the Eighteenth Century, this somewhat picaresque tale follows the life  of James Dyer, a man born without the ability to feel pain, from conception  until his death. The book actually begins with Dyer's autopsy, a scene that  is puzzling (since there is no exposition) and brutally ugly. I was tempted  to put the book down, since for the first thirty or so pages scenes and  characters appear with no context and I had very little idea of what  anything meant. That would have been a mistake. As soon as the author leaps  back to the day of Dyer's conception and the story begins to move forward I  was hooked. Because James cannot feel pain he never develops empathy with  others and grows to be a remarkably capable surgeon but a very cold man.  The story of his awakening as a real human being, which occupies the last  quarter of the novel, is very moving without the least traces of  sentimentality.<br />The cast of characters that Andrew Miller has invented as  supporting players are all interesting and complex. The stages of Dyer's  life, from a childhood on a farm (where he was thought to be an idiot since  he didn't speak), through a stint as a medicine show freak, then as a  'specimen' of human oddities by a wealthy collector of such, to a life at  sea, the building of a successful practice as a surgeon, affairs, duels,  flight, a dangerous journey to St. Petersburg and then the collapse of his  sanity and his health resulting in a stint in London's notorious Bedlam  hospital, are all told in a style that while borrowing from some  conventions of eighteenth century writing never try to ape it. I loved the  sound of Miller's words and the shape of the sentences. This is a book I  could have enjoyed reading aloud.<br />This is a complex book on many levels,  but not an inaccessable one. The story - once into it - is clear and the  characters are cleanly drawn. There are enough ups and downs of fortune to  keep even the most jaded fiction fan interested while at the same time the  complexity of character, language and theme provide much for those who love  to puzzle out the hidden meanings in literature.<br />This was a fascinating  book and I was sorry to see it end. I really recommend it to anyone who  wants something that can challenge the mind while satisfying all reader's  love of a good story.many levels,  but not an inaccessable one. The story - once into it - is clear and the  characters are cleanly drawn. There are enough ups and downs of fortune to  keep even the most jaded fiction fan interested while at the same time the  complexity of character, language and theme provide much for those who love  to puzzle out the hidden meanings in literature.<br />This was a fascinating  book and I was sorry to see it end. I really recommend it to anyone who  wants something that can challenge the mind while satisfying all reader's  love of a good story.	2000-04-24
US	50940744	R2GN84V65VHC50	0525942327	366939784	Man Crazy	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Really twisted family values	This story of a young girl's coming of age is both touching and horrifying. Ingrid is born to an attractive young couple whose world falls apart when the husband, an ex Vietnam War pilot, gets involved in a drug smuggling homicide and has to go into hiding. His absense, and the shabby  conditions of her life with her mother, form the basis of a lifelong  obsession with being needed by men. Ingrid's descent from precocious child  to promiscous teenager to the ultimate degradation of being  &quot;dog-girl&quot; to a satanic motorcylce cult, is told unflintchingly.  Believable at every step, it is a painful and disturbing tale.<br />Oates  style is like nothing I can remember recently. I don't know if this is  typical of her books (this is the only one I have read) but she takes many  liberties with syntax and punctuation, yet there is no sense of  deliberately trying to be literary or arty and everything about the  &quot;voice&quot; she chooses seems appropriate.<br />It would not be correct  to say that I &quot;enjoyed&quot; this book, but I did find it moving,  fascinating, and ultimately satisfying. I will be in search of other  fiction by Joyce Carol Oates - after reading some lighter stuff first, just  to get Satan's Children out of my mind.	2000-04-19
US	50940744	RQA2SA63H6A6L	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Things are not what they seem here	This story of a compulsive sexual relationship between aninmate of a psychiatric hospital and the wife of one of the doctors isa disturbing blend of serious fiction and psychologicalthriller. Narrated by another of the hospital's psychiatrists, the story is told third hand and in that dispassionate &quot;clinical&quot; voice one might associate with a shrink.  The doctor has the details because he &quot;treated&quot; both (the other doctor's wife had become a patient after helping her lover - a criminally insane sculptor - to escape).<br />This is a fascinating story, told in just the right tone of voice. Patrick McGrath's writing style is perfect for the point of view he chooses here and a lot of the pleasure of the book is gained just from the sound of the doctors dry and off beat remarks, where there is always more than meets the eye.  END	2000-04-19
US	50940744	R2MB417UHOAVSP	0374289492	314787471	White Lies: Race and the Myths of Whiteness	Books	4	22	26	N	N	A different perspective on race relations	Whenever whites write about race they run the risk of falling into any one of a number of traps: they can be patronizing when expressing concern, dismissive of real problems when trying to be &quot;realistic&quot;,  genuinely stupid in suggesting simplistic solutions that involve only  individual attitudes while ignoring the impact of history, custom and  economic factors and, most typically, having no awareness of how their own  &quot;whiteness&quot; distorts their views of what MUST be normal and  acceptable. Berger's book is unique, in my experience, in not only avoiding  these pitfalls but going to great pains to make the reader aware of them.  It is said that fish can have no concept of water since that is their only  environment. In the same way, most whites are unaware of the weight of  racial prejudice that is felt by all minorities, because they are immersed  in the dominant culture, while those on the outside are painfully aware  that they are outside.<br />Berger writes from a unique perspective; that of  an intelligent and perceptive man reared in public housing in New York,  whose mother was a racist and whose father was a supporter of the civil  rights movement. He was not only aware of race as an issue early in his  life, but was torn between his parent's opposing views while simultaneously  trying to apply those contradictions to the people he knew outside the home  - largely minorities. The issue seems to have obsessed him, but ultimately  in a positive way. This book, part biography, part essay, part reportage,  cannot be easily described. It is fragmented and impressionistic, but its  focus is clear - to make the reader (and it seems to assume a white reader)  really aware of all the unspoken lies that support the privalege of white  power in America. It is hard to know whether he succeeds or not. This  reader already sympathized with much that he had to say and was impressed  with the way he managed to make subtle points clear. Would a real white  supremacist be won over? That is doubtful, even if they read the book with  an open mind. But they are not the intended audience. Rather, Berger is  addressing those whites who like to believe they are not - in any way -  racist. Until this group recognizes the subtle ways in which they cling to  a privaledged position and the impact this has on minorities, there will be  no improvement in race relations.<br />I enjoyed reading this book very much.  Each chapter was a surprise and a pleasure. Some of the digressions seemed  puzzling but for the most part everything in the book helped illuminate his  theme. This is not a polemic or a Jeremiad, but a soft spoken and carefully  thought out piece of writting. Once Berger's point of view seeps into the  reader's consciouness, it's hard to see things the same way again.supremacist be won over? That is doubtful, even if they read the book with  an open mind. But they are not the intended audience. Rather, Berger is  addressing those whites who like to believe they are not - in any way -  racist. Until this group recognizes the subtle ways in which they cling to  a privaledged position and the impact this has on minorities, there will be  no improvement in race relations.<br />I enjoyed reading this book very much.  Each chapter was a surprise and a pleasure. Some of the digressions seemed  puzzling but for the most part everything in the book helped illuminate his  theme. This is not a polemic or a Jeremiad, but a soft spoken and carefully  thought out piece of writting. Once Berger's point of view seeps into the  reader's consciouness, it's hard to see things the same way again.	2000-04-19
US	50940744	R2TI4IDM6RX6MB	0399145877	953931509	Hugger Mugger: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Spencer out of his element	It's hard not to like a Spencer novel. Those who have read any of Robert B. Parker's Spencer series would recognize any page of this book as being cut from the same mold that readers have come to expect from him; the  wisecracks, the irreverant inner musings, the terse dialogue, the comfort  with confronting violence. But something seems missing in this book, which  takes Spencer into the deep south to solve the mystery of who is shooting a  racing aristocrat's horses and why. What he finds is a disfunctional family  of wealthy neurotics, a small town that conspires to keep their secrets,  and a bigger, darker mystery when the head of the family is himself  murdered. Much of this is as good as any Spencer book. I sometimes wonder  if Parker can write this stuff in his sleep - it seems so easy but works so  well. But the reader will miss certain things that give punch to other  Spencer books which this one seems to lack. They will miss Hawk, who is  reported to be in France and plays no part in the story. They will miss any  excitement from Spencer being away from Susan. He meets more than one  attractive and interested tempress but remains faithful. This is quite  noble but as story telling it is really boring. I think it's time for  Spencer to show a little male failing; the monogamous life limits the  options for both plot complications and character revelation.<br />On the  issues of plot and character, it has to be said that this book has some  interesting twists in both that I personally enjoyed, but on the whole  found the characters to be less than well rounded and the plot basically  unresolved.<br />That said, I still enjoyed the book. Whatever Parker has, it  works, even when he doesn't put his best foot forward. If you are a Spencer  fan there is no way you would fail to read this book and enjoy it, even if  you find yourself wishing for more.	2000-04-19
US	50940744	RFFH7G10TWGBK	042516036X	886019622	Watery Grave (Sir John Fielding)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Fascinating historical mystery	This is the first of this series that I have read so cannot compare its virtues to previous books, but for me, it was a very pleasant surprise. &quot;Bruce Alexander&quot; (whoever that is) succeeds very well at creating a cast of characters and set of circumstances that make for an  engrossing tale set in London during the late eighteenth century. Part  Dickens and part Conan Doyle, this tale brings historical London to life  with an attention to detail and a faithfulness to language that is a true  pleasure to experience.<br />Based on a real person who was a blind  magistrate and founder of London's first police force, the book is narrated  by his young assistant and much that is pleasing about the story comes from  the assistant's growth in real life experience as he helps solve a mystery  of death at sea and the wrongful conviction of an innocent man. Just the  section of the book where a sympathetic ex-pirate gives Jeremy a lesson in  the how and what of sex (using a pistol and holster)is worth the read. Fun  stuff.<br />Now I have to find all the other books in the series.	2000-04-19
US	50940744	RK0U4B4I4MSUU	0312242913	219518729	The Big Blowdown	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A very satisfying period piece	Fans of George Pelecanos will not be disappointed in this excellent novel. Set in D.C. during the years just before and after WWII, his familiar cast of characters inhabit a world of hope and violence that somehow seems  appropriate to the American Dream. The plot is engaging and believable, the  action is fast paced, and the character portrayals are as satisfying as a  reader could want. This is a great story of friendship, betrayal and flawed  redemption. Much more than just a 'crime novel' (and this is true of his  other books as well) The Big Blowdown evokes a time when everthing seemed  possible, from great success to 'the Big Blowdown' (atomic annihilation)  and tells the story a few immigrant kids whose future turns out to be quite  different from any they would have imagined.<br />Reading a Pelecanos book  always leaves me feeling as though I had touched a piece of real life. This  book has the added appeal of touching a real piece of time gone by as well.  Very satisfying. I highly recommend it.	2000-04-04
US	50940744	R3B2ENRF7MG1QS	0312180861	8223768	Dewey Defeats Truman: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A deceptively complex period piece about values	This book could be described in many ways but ultimately I think it is a book about that fundamental question, &quot;What should we do with our life?&quot; Set in the town of Owasso, Michigan during the months between  the Republican convention and presidential election in 1948, the large cast  of characters and relatively simple plot serve to highlight a range of both  political and personal values that influence how people choose to live.  Every character in the novel (including the elderly and middle aged  characters) must make difficult decisions that will effect the rest of  their own and other's lives. The somewhat comic and very understanding  perspective that Mallon brings to these decisions and their consequences  give the book a lightness that, I think, detracts from the seriousness of  his subject. Nevertheless, it was a pleasure to read and I look forward to  seeking out other books by Thomas Mallon.	2000-04-04
US	50940744	R2C92QF59RCYCQ	0679741836	488867373	Molly Ivins Can't Say That, Can She?	Books	5	19	26	N	N	She can say whatever she wants	If more political commentary was as insightful and as much fun as this collection of columns by Molly Ivens about her home state of Texas, more citizens might have a keener interest in the process and fewer politicians  would be willing to engage in the tawdry business that makes them such easy  targets. To give a sample of Iven's viewpoint, she refers to the Texas  statehouse as a 'building built by giants and inhabited by pigmies.' The  woman takes no prisoners and doesn't suffer fools at all. She is absolutely  honest, sparing neither party and no individual. If you are a public figure  in Texas and do something stupid or dishonest, Molly Ivens will call you on  it - and in a very embarrasing way.<br />These columns are wonderful reading.  Besides being both intelligent and extremely funny, they carry the sense of  someone who truely wants for things to be better, and is only amazed (and  slightly amused) that they are so off track.	2000-01-30
US	50940744	RSWKR5X4XOGTT	0813017173	184166212	Kick Ass: Selected Columns of Carl Hiaasen	Books	5	72	74	N	N	And you thought his novels were strange	The novels of Carl Hiaasen are darkly comic visions of the hell that greed and overdevelopment have created in much of south Florida. This book, a collection of his newspaper columns for the Miami Herald, reveals much about the origins of that vision. In these columns Hiaasen emerges as a  fierce, intelligent and tireless critic of corrupt politicians, thoughtless  overdevelopment, hypocracy and human stupidity generally. These columns,  some about local Miami politics and crime, some about Florida and some  about the state of America generally, all contain elements of clear  thinking, bitter humor and genuine indignation. His choice of subjects  shows his eye for irony and the columns can be read both for information  and for his humorous take on the subject.<br />Like Molly Ivens, who can speak  the truth and make us laugh about things that are probably worthy of tears,  Hiaasen manages to ease the pain of much that he reveals in the columns by  recasting it as comedy. He makes us laugh first, and then leaves us with  troubled thoughts. Makes me wish he wrote for the Washington Post. The  citizens of D.C. could use a good laugh at much that goes on. We just don't  have a Carl Hiaasen here to do it justice.<br />Reading this book won't make  one want to move to Miami, but it will make one want to read more Hiaasen.  Always a pleasure.	2000-01-27
US	50940744	R1X4QBD0VLW8QD	0316695238	602258802	Shame the Devil: A Novel	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Pelecanos best book yet	One thing that is sure about George Pelecanos, he gets better with each new book. Shame the Devil is the final book to use the cast of characters  that center around the Washington D.C. bar, The Spot, where recurring  character Nick Stephanos is the bartender (when not working as an  unlicensed detective). This book offers fast paced action as well as  satisfying character portrayals and, more than any other of his books,  probes fundamental human issues of faith and life's meaning in the face of  arbitrary violence and cruelty.<br />One of the things that make Pelecanos so  popular with the D.C. audience is also protentially a problem for readers  elsewhere; his books are so detailed with references to streets and  neighborhoods that would mean nothing unless one knew them personally that  readers might wish for some exposition to explain where and 'what' Georgia  Ave. or Anacostia are. Still, the sense of place is fundamental to his  writing and his stories come alive because they are about real people in a  known setting. He is almost alone in creating Washington stories that don't  focus on the President or some Senator or one of the Federal law  enforcement agencies. Pelecanos's books are peopled by blue collar workers,  common criminals, D.C. cops, and a sprinkling of hard working attorneys and  small businessmen.<br />This book starts with a bang - an armed robbery that  goes wrong and ends up with multiple victims - and it progresses to a  dynamite conclusion in which revenge is is coupled with self-discovery and  redemption. A really thrilling and satisfying reading experience.	2000-01-24
US	50940744	RCV6UQC3JAMNV	0395665698	371330467	Damascus Gate	Books	5	114	121	N	N	A difficult but brilliant work	The range of evaluations for this book in the customer reviews is all the way from one star to five. Having read and thoroughly enjoyed Robert Stone's Damascus Gate, I have to wonder why the numerous one and two star  reviews. The most frequent criticisms are ones that are quite true: the  book is long on description, it is very complex, there are a lot of  characters and much of the situation in which the plot unfolds must be  inferred since the author doesn't spell it out for us.<br />Nevertheless, the  writing is brilliant. This is a book for people who love reading; not for  people who simply want a good story with familiar characters and a  predictable conclusion. Stone spends a lot of time in this book really  setting the stage before the plot is even unwound. To readers who are  impatient to 'get on with the story', this approach is going to be  frustrating. But to readers who appreciate what Stone does with language  and can revel in the images created, this part of the book is a pleasure in  itself.<br />I would not recommend this book to everyone. It does require  more effort and concentration than a typical thriller (just as Le Carre  does) and the pleasures derived from the character and plot presuppose a  reader more in tune with Graham Greene than with Grisham. The author wants  us to think long and hard about what we are reading and he has done an  admirable job of creating a scenario where all the forces that have made  the middle east a consistently unstable place are shown coming together in  the crisis situation the plot leads to. I found this book very satisfying.	2000-01-24
US	50940744	R3O5NBEA5ISN5W	038072121X	852619766	In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A little too much of a good thing	There are two strong aspects of James Lee Burke's series about Louisiana detective Dave Robicheaux that make them unique and memorable: the lush description that absolutely puts the reader in the locale and the  recurrance of 'mystic' elements - images in dreams etc - that give the  plots a mythic, larger than life, stature. In this book, I think, both  elements are overplayed just a bit too much. One longs for more story and  less atmosphere, and the materialization of Confederate 'ghosts' that  impinge on the outcome of the plot strains credulity severly.<br />I enjoy  this series, even when it is over the top as is sometimes the case. There  is nothing else quite like it in contemporary crime fiction. But every now  and then I wish that Burke would reign himself in. He seems to get seduced  by his own words and carried away to a place that the reader cannot always  follow. Of course, when he is on the mark, no one can touch him for  description and atmosphere. In the case of this book, I just wanted more  story - and more flesh and blood.	2000-01-18
US	50940744	R2SDIH6HKZRJGN	0316154067	559013514	Void Moon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good but a little too much 'synchronicity'	Michael Connelly is a predictable pleasure for those who like their crime and mystery yarns on the gritty side. An expert at depicting the conflicts generated by the intersecting interests of high rollers and bottom feeders,  Connelly has turned out one successful book after another. With complex  characterizations and deftly twisting plots, his books are almost all 'page  turners' that grab a reader and won't let go. Void Moon, his latest book,  shares many of these qualities but also has some problems. Cassi, the main  character, is never fully rounded out. Much of what makes her tick - and  that would explain her behavior - is left to be revealed until the end of  the book. And the plot, for the most part as satisfying as any Connelly has  concocted before, suffers, I believe, because of a little too much of the  'synchronicity' that the psychotic bad guy tries to set up. The attempt at  irony is a bit much and because it seems contrived, deprives the ending of  the punch it would otherwise have had. Also, because the bad guy is a  psycho, his character is a bit too evil, too over the top, to relate to  fully. And finally, anytime a plot turns to the kidnapping of a child to be  used as a pawn in whatever is at stake, the book in question runs the risk  of descending into melodrama. So there are some false steps here.<br />That  being said, the Connelly magic for presenting great dialogue, an  interesting cast of characters and a complex plot with enough quick turns  to make the reader dizzy, is all here. While not the best of Connelly's  books, Void Moon is still better than the great majority of what is being  turned out by other writers in this genre; and it's a good bet there will  be more and better books to come.	2000-01-18
US	50940744	R2MWKJFS9UJHNG	0871137216	655603293	Where I'm Calling from: Selected Stories	Books	5	49	51	N	N	The best of Carver	Raymond Carver is unique among contemporary American men of letters in that he is known almost exclusively for his short stories. Though he published other books, most notably collections of his poetry, his real  genius was in the abbriviated summation of ordinary human experience in the  short prose form.<br />This volume is a great introduction to Carver's  stories because it represents a selection of his best work from every phase  of his career. It is clear from the first story that his special gift is in  somehow making a slice of life universal. His stories have hardly any plot  and character is revealed rather than described. The essense of his  character's lives are distilled into a few scenes wherein the reader can  grasp a universe of unspoken meanings. The simplest things in Carver's  hands take on a depth of meaning and a resonance that tends to haunt one  long after the story is read. There is no overt artifice employed; the  stories are deceptively simple. Yet all of these stories, like good poems,  pack lots of meaning into a compressed form. His stories are not so much  'about' love, grief, deception, failure, longing and hatred as they are  captured moments that embody these elements of the human condition and  allow us to really feel what the characters feel. The very lack of  exposition and detailed context is part of what makes these moments so  powerful. Like a Rorschach ink blot, the short scenes depicted can call  forth from each reader a variety of different interpretations and meanings.  That is perhaps what is really great about these stories. Every reader can  agree on the overt content, but no two are likely to agree about what they  really mean, despite almost everyone having a strong emotional response to  them. This is unique and superior writing that no lover of literature  should miss.	2000-01-18
US	50940744	R3NFHQKN0TKZW	0385323980	191746584	Get Shorty	Books	5	30	30	N	N	One of Leonard's recent best	With Elmore Leonard we get a new book every year or so, and it's a good thing, because even though not every one is a solid success, they are all fun and every now and then a real masterpiece emerges. I believe that Get  Shorty is such a success. It's a Cinderella story as if written by Damon  Runyan. Chili Palmer, a small time mobster on the trail of a deadbeat who  has run off with $300,000 of mob money after faking his own death, finds  himself in Hollywood getting involved with movie making instead of  recovering the money. On one level the book is pure Leonard an exciting  underworld story with great street talk and those edgy characters that he  does so well. On another level the book is a wonderful social satire and,  with its shift from Vegas to L.A., shows us a contemporary world lost in  greed and seduced by show biz. Palmer's easy success as a producer (in  essence doing his own life story) is a thinly veiled commentary on the  shallowness of Hollywood and the lack of skill of many of its leaders. Not  a surprising position for a writer who has seen almost all of his books  (till this one) made into truely terrible movies (remember Stick? Mr.  Majestek? The Moonshine Wars?).<br />Whatever else, this book is a fast paced  and entertaining piece of fiction. The characters are interesting, the  dialogue is memorable and funny, and the plot is ingenious and leads to a  very satisfactory conclusion. This is Leonard at his best - and that is  awfully good. And surprise, this time he even got a good movie out of it!	2000-01-18
US	50940744	ROTTFU825ZFFN	0804114498	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	5	11	14	N	N	One of the best JFK conspiracy theories	With this book James Ellroy jumps from the limitations of the L.A. cops and robbers scene to the grand stage of American political tragedy. This book, as complex, nervy, hard edged and fast paced as we have come to  expect of him, tackles the JFK assassination with a cast of characters and  a set of assumptions that, while perfectly plausible, paint a very  unflattering portrait of America and its institutions.<br />His 'heros' are  failed federal agents and excops. Their milieu is the world of unofficial  power where the Mafia, the Cuban resistance movement, the CIA, FBI,  businessmen (Howard Hughes) and government officials all intersect in a  boiling stew of competing agendas and disastrous subtrafuges. The result is  a multifaceted plot that mingles elements of coincidence, accident and  outright conspiracy to explain the assassination of JFK. The story is ugly  and absolutely believeable. There is no attempt to pretend that this is  history. Lots of history is ignored here for the sake of a clear human  story, but the result is a very rich, many layered story of corrupt,  corruptable and corrupting men whose limited ambitions and actions result  in the killing of the president.<br />Over the years James Ellroy has turned  into one of the great, true voices of the darker side of American life. No  other story has given him such free reign to express his talent as does  this one. A real achievement and a head spinning experience.	2000-01-18
US	50940744	RZSA6OLZFKH3J	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Roth in rare form	It is hard to know what to say about Sabbath's Theater. The 'hero', Mickey Sabbath is not a likeable or easily understood character. His approach to the other figures in the novel seems consistently hostile and predatory,  yet we understand that such a facade masks a deep torment and an increasing  fear of death. His preoccupation with sex (not unusual for a Roth  character) is a way of affirming life in the face of his own aging and  infirm existence.<br />The story is slight and the real thrust of the 'plot',  after an intitial setup, is the question of whether Sabbath will chose to  live or take his own life. However ugly Mickey's behavior and words are,  Roth gives us something wonderful in each paragraph. We might not love  Mickey, but it is hard to read this book and not be moved, impressed, and  generally wowed by Roth's abilities as a writer. Wonderful reading.	2000-01-14
US	50940744	R2JJCFNWGR617O	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	4	10	12	N	N	What is this book, anyway?	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is perhaps the most unlikely longterm hardback best seller in publishing history. It is neither fish or fowl and trying to account for its popularity must have given the book  publishing industry fits. I enjoyed the book but can't really say why. Part  travelogue, part true crime, part essay, part character study and all very  strange, the book meanders around over a several year period of time while  the author visits Savannah, GA for extended periods, gets to know his  neighbors, gets to know some of the strange local characters, gets caught  up in a murder trial, backtracks to fill in the blanks there, participates  in several 'subplots' having to do with voodoo and an engaging  transvestite, the Lady Chablis, and manages while doing all this to tell us  very little that is personal about himself.<br />Ultimately, the book suffers,  I think, from a lack of structure. It is so all-over-the-place that many  readers are going to be frustrated. But each part of the book can be  enjoyed for its own sake. The overall result is not a coherent whole, but a  pleasant - and unique - reading experience just the same.	2000-01-11
US	50940744	R2JHEWWDCHSQM6	0945575467	290535925	Big Bad Love	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Where do you learn to write like this?	This book is such a powerful surprise that it is hard to know what to say. So many short stories one encounters in magazines and anthologies are so much 'in the tradition' that they could have been written by any number of  writers. Larry Brown's stories, however, have an assured, unique and very  personal style that is unlike anything else I have read. These first person  confessionals by obsessed (and not too self aware) characters are gripping  and funny all at the same time. There is a truth here - about language and  behavior - that most authors rarely achieve.<br />I opened this collection of  stories intending to read just one, in order to get a feel for Brown's work  - which I have heard praised many times. I found myself glued to the book  and finished it in one afternoon - obsessed like his characters. This is so  like the high octane, drug and booze fueled narrative one gets occasionally  in James Ellroy's L.A. series, but without the complex plot or life and  death action. Here we see individuals - mostly down and out - struggling  with their own personal demons in the red neck world of roadside taverns,  pickup trucks, squalid domestic situations and many, many back roads.<br />Brown is able to give us the grit of Harry Crews's south without the  qrotesque elements. The hard truth is here, and the humor too, but these  are people that I have known. I just never cared for them as much as I do  after seeing them pass through the filter of Brown's fierce vision.<br />Great  stuff.	2000-01-10
US	50940744	R2OWYN5U28IHVL	034539044X	472208605	Rose	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Wonderful characters and setting; unconvincing story	This book exhibits great strengths but suffers from a story line that is ultimately unconvincing. The strengths are in the author's presentation of characters - especially the main character, Jonathan Blair, an expat who  feels more at home in primitive Africa than civilized England and a  character who could have stepped from the pages of a Graham Greene novel,  and the setting, Wigam, a coal mining town in rural England which is a  veritable soot filled earthly hell. Our tour through this seldom portrayed  aspect of Victorian England is grimly fascinating and the author's  descriptive powers are such that every scene is vividly clear in the mind's  eye.<br />What is not successful, however, is the plot. The initial premise is  interesting, but the follow through leaves a lot to be desired. Many  significant moments in the story are simply unbelievable (disquise and  mistaken identity are creaky plot devices, especially when the parties  involved are lovers)and the final resolution of the mystery was, for me  anyway, a let down.<br />Still, I give this book four stars because it was  such fun to read just from the point of view of experiencing something  completly different. If the story had been as believable as the description  of place and character it would have been an excellent, rather than simply  good, book.	2000-01-10
US	50940744	R1XQFC03XW93XG	0380786982	495928980	Moonwar	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good comic book stuff	While Ben Bova's premise and plot is interesting enough in its own right that I actually finished this book (Moonwar), it was not a satisfying reading experience. The characters were very flat and predictable good  guy/bad guy stock characters from the movie seriel and melodrama  traditions. The only almost complex character was Bam, the good hearted  assassin, and even here the plot falters trying to make sense of his place  in the story. When Doug tells him, in essence, 'sure you cut my thoat and  tried to kill me, but I sense that we could be friends', the reader wants  to say 'WHAT?'. It makes one wonder about the hero's grip on things. And  the dialoge generally is laughable. One could imagine these lines in an old  Flash Gordon film. Over the top with a straight face. I found it hard to  take.	2000-01-10
US	50940744	R3KKOFXEIAUR5H	0449910830	828689024	The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A new voice for Smiley	Jane Smiley is one of those authors who seem to have the need to reinvent themselves with each new book. In The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton, she has adopted the stylistic devices of 19th century writing  and speech to bring this story of a young woman's experiences in 'Bloody  Kansas' to life. So successfully does Smiley present the character of Lidie  Newton that it is hard for the reader to believe this person didn't really  live - that these aren't the actual words of a real life.<br />This is a  tough book in some ways. What the heroine experiences is not often  pleasant. The physiscal and emotional suffering are clear and felt by the  reader. I always take it as a sign that an author has been successful when  I find myself experiencing anger, disappointment, elation or relief on  behalf of a book's charcters, and in Smiley's new book this was a constant.  Somehow the story of Lidie Newton seemed personal to me right from the  start. I suspect that Jane Smiley modeled the character on herself in some  ways, because she lives on the page more vibrantly than any Smiley  character I can remember. Whether this is true or not is irrelevant. What  is important is that one comes to know and care about Lidie Newton;  therefore anything that happens to her or that she thinks about becomes  important for the reader. One of the strengths of the book is the main  character's intellectual and spiritual growth. Things don't just happen to  her, she learns from what happens. Still, the ending may not please some,  because it doesn't show her as clearly triumphant. But it is true to life,  and that is what the whole book is about.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R1ZK1VVNK0LOI1	0380703122	455954925	Whirlwind	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Very disappointing for Clavell	I was probably more disappointed in this book than would otherwise have been the case because I had such high expectations. Clavell's other books typically unite genuinely interesting characters in complex, reality based  plots and, over the course of hundreds of pages, subject the reader to a  detail laden and rich adventure. One emerges from his books feeling both  entertained and educated. Whirlwind could have been all of that and more.  Clavell's most contemporary story has all the elements just waiting, but he  doesn't rise to the occasion. The characters are stereotypes, the plot is  predictable and we don't really learn much that we didn't know about either  Iran or the 'revolution' that put the fundamentalists into power. It's a  shame, because all of this could have added up to another great Clavell  achievement. Instead, we have a mediocre pot boiler about circumstances we  are all too familiar with.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R29OYAMVLWCE49	0394589424	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	4	51	56	N	N	A new twist for Crichton	I am not a Crichton fan but for some reason always wind up reading his latest book. There is always at least something of interest there. So I was very pleasantly surprised with Rising Sun, a book that takes an unexpected  turn for Crichton in that it is light on the science and heavy on character  and plot. A murder mystery entangled in the complexities of Japanese  business dealings in America, it provides Crichton with an opportunity -  through several of his characters - to vent about Japanese culture and the  problems American business has competing with them.<br />The book works on  several levels. It is an exciting mystery, an interesting exposition about  Japanese business and culture and - as always with Crichton - a lesson in  new technology. Whether the insights one gleans about the Japanese are true  or not (and that was a controversial aspect of the book when first  published) the image of them presented in the book is perfect to create the  tension and intrigue that helps keep the plot ticking and holds the  reader's interest till the end.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R2IIU2YWQIVNIJ	0312957572	531249329	The Seventh Scroll	Books	4	45	47	N	N	A  unique sequel	How is it possible for a sequel to be set 4,000 years after the original story? Wilbur Smith answers that question in The Seventh Scroll, a book set largely in modern day Ethiopia where conflicting groups try to locate the  Egyptian treasure entombed by Taita at the end of The River God, this  book's predessor. I don't know how someone who had not read The River God  would respond to The Seventh Scroll (though from the other reviews it is  obvious that many loved it without reading the prior book) but for me, the  connection between Taita, a character that dominated the story in The River  God and remains one of my favorite recent fictional characters, and the  exciting 'race for the treasure' plot of The Seventh Scroll, made the  action of this book all the more fascinating.<br />The plot and characters  here - unlike The River God - don't represent any great invetive  achievement. It is pretty standard good guy/bad guy stuff with lots of  cliff hanger action. But Smith handles this kind of thing better than most  other authors and can make even predictable situations and characters  exciting.<br />A fun read, especially if you read and enjoyed The River God. I  would recommend this, and most of Smith's many novels, to anyone who likes  exciting, complex and intelligent stories. His are all this and more.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R1GGP8TMJSOJMZ	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	5	207	216	N	N	Bad history; Great fiction	One can quibble about the historical innacuracies in Smith's The River God and be a bit put off by the the lead character's propensity to be smarter than anyone else in the story, but really - is this a great story, or what?  A departure for Smith, whose previous books focused almost exclusively on  his native South Africa, this book deals with Egypt 4000 ago. But as  typical of his novels, this one speeds along with great action and  wonderful characters.<br />Taita, the brilliant eunuch slave who narrates the  story, is an inspired creation. Larger than life while being, as a eunuch,  somewhat removed from the passions that move many of the characters in the  book, he is the perfect spectator/participant. He sees and understands  everything and his inventions and interventions move the plot in unexpected  ways. The book meanders a bit because it follows a whole life and its many  turnings, but it is fascinating at every juncture.<br />This simply is one of  the most FUN books I have read in years. Being transported to an unfamiliar  time and place, and having that milieu come alive so vividly - to be able  to vicariously experience the rise and fall of pharohs, cities, kingdoms,  suffering and success - this is the best kind of vacation from the ordinary  world we inhabit.<br />I highly recommend this book. It is intelligent,  exciting, creative and memorable. What more could one want?	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R3087N4N540UN2	0394561104	340762456	Sphere	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Great concept. Poor follow through	Michael Crichton is not a great writer. His prose style is rather stiff, as are most of his characters. His real strength is in hitting on great story ideas. His main failing is in not following through successfully.  This book is a good example. The initial premise - a group of scientests  being assembled to investigate a spherical space ship on the bottom of the  ocean - offers great promise, and the initial incidents in the story are  interesting, but from the first third of the book it is all downhill. Much  of the plot is silly and the ending is totally unsatisfying.<br />So if you  are a die hard Crichton fan, no problem. Anyone else should expect to be  disappointed.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R3Q0783XP7D697	0449910237	79568500	Moo	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Smiley's revenge	One never knows what to expect from a Jane Smiley novel. She has yet to cross the same territory in any two books. This novel, a satirical look at the usual suspects one encounters on a state university campus, is crowded  with characters but short on plot. It reads more like a collection of  vignettes which ultimate add up to a comic big picture of the campus and  its inhabitants. The style is deliberately artificial and quite fine once  one is adjusted to it; nicely suited to a piece about academics.<br />Some of  the characters are real gems. Many of us who have been associated with  academia will recognize, all too painfully, others - if not ourselves -  that we have known in these portraits. Exaggerated but never quite over the  top (except perhaps in the wildly imaginative sections dealing with Earl  Butz, prize hog and great character) this book is a darkly comic portrait  of the extremes of personality that florish in the somewhat isolated  atmosphere of a large state ag college.<br />Very pleasant reading for those  of us who have been there. Since Smiley has as well, we wonder, is this her  revenge on peers and administrators for all those years of teaching? It's  great stuff in any case.	2000-01-07
US	50940744	R1JX0HY41BCOIN	0374223149	559178792	November 1916 (The Red Wheel II)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	The more things change, the more they stay the same	In November 1916, Solzhenitsyn continues the story she started in August 1914 - the grand saga of conflicting forces that led to the revolution of 1917. At an even 1000 pages, the book would seem overlong except that  despite its length it can barely contain the numerous characters,  movements, 'plots', conspiracies, and ideas that form the mosaic the author  presents of Russia on the eve of revolt.<br />There are a number of things  that strike the reader in reading this book. One is the general description  of conditions in Moscow and St. Petersburg at the time: extreme inflation,  unavailability of goods, long lines waiting in bad weather for whatever is  available in stores, conspicuous displays of wealth by some in the face of  extreme poverty by most, capricious strikes and labor shutdowns, lack of  any agreement on action among the leaders of the government and a general  sense that the government has betrayed the people. Having just read David  Remnick's excellent book Resurrection: The Struggle for a New Russia, it  seems that not much has really changed there since the early decades of the  century. Despite the 'success' of the Soviet Union in WWII, the space race  and the huge effort at industrialization, Russia seems to be prey once  again to the same despair and chaos that bred the last revolution.<br />This  book works as both a historical summary of conditions at the time and as an  engrossing human story of various people (soldiers, revolutionaries,  peasants, writers, and government officials) caught up in those conditions.  The human meaning, and cost, is never lost in the 'big picture' but is used  to help clarify it. Like most Russian literature, this book is filled with  talk, excellent conversation and argument, emotional displays of temper and  grief, and enough self doubt and inconsistency to make 100 versions of  Hamlet. Intermingled with the story also are long sections of historical  expositon, often quotes from actual speeches, dispatches, articles and  proclaimations. Less interesting than the story of his main characters,  these sections nevertheless add a great deal of depth to our understanding  of the 'present' circumstances presented in the book.<br />One of the best  aspects of the book for me was the portait of Lenin in Switzerland - fussy,  neurotic, and constantly lecturing everyone else about his brand of  socialism while living off his mother's (and other's) charity. The subplot  relating Germany's effort to get Lenin to foment a revolution in Russia so  that eastern front could be retired, is fascinating.<br />Anyone who enjoys  Russian literature will find much to appreciate in November 1916. It is in  the grand tradition of great Russian fiction that touches the heart while  stimulating the mind. There is never any doubt about Solzhenitsyn's values  and beliefs, but he can still create a three dimensional world where even  what he hates glows with real life.s, articles and  proclaimations. Less interesting than the story of his main characters,  these sections nevertheless add a great deal of depth to our understanding  of the 'present' circumstances presented in the book.<br />One of the best  aspects of the book for me was the portait of Lenin in Switzerland - fussy,  neurotic, and constantly lecturing everyone else about his brand of  socialism while living off his mother's (and other's) charity. The subplot  relating Germany's effort to get Lenin to foment a revolution in Russia so  that eastern front could be retired, is fascinating.<br />Anyone who enjoys  Russian literature will find much to appreciate in November 1916. It is in  the grand tradition of great Russian fiction that touches the heart while  stimulating the mind. There is never any doubt about Solzhenitsyn's values  and beliefs, but he can still create a three dimensional world where even  what he hates glows with real life.	2000-01-06
US	50940744	R29IYUT8V307V6	0446391719	247130213	To Asmara	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Memorable fiction or merely propoganda?	It is plain from the few reviews posted here that some extreme opinions are held regarding this book. The reviewer who faults Keneally for a one sided picture of the Eretrian war is quite correct that the book is not a  balanced account of the long and complex conflict. But then the book is not  reportage, it is fiction, and as such - a story told from the point of view  of a journalist with no prior knowledege of the war - it is perfectly  reasonable. He takes sides and sympathizes with his hosts. He demonizes  their enemies. Is this accurate history? No. Is it a great story?  Yes.<br />Keneally is a writter of consumate skill whose characters and  settings have a sense of heightened reality. This book, whatever it's  factual failings, is vivid, powerful and moving. I knew nothing about the  Eretrian conflict myself when I read the novel, and was so moved by it that  I was motivated to do a lot of follow up research on the subject. If  Keneally meant for the book to be propoganda, then shame on him (though, if  so, it is most uncommonly good propoganda). If he didn't, then the accuracy  of the book is of issue only to those who have already taken sides and  can't appreciate a fiction that takes an opposing point of view. And I  really believe that anyone who is moved by this book will at least do, as I  did, enough additional study to realize that Keneally's story is only part  of the Eretrian story - one that deserves to be known.	2000-01-05
US	50940744	R32UKG5N1ZYQ14	0345346904	289202770	Gateway (Heechee Saga)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting but puzzling	I read this book with great expectations since I had heard it described as a 'classic', but I was not really happy with the experience. There is so little exposition (concerning the Heechee's for example) that one is almost  through with the book before some of the important aspects of the story are  understood. I did not find the 'science' very credible either.  Nevertheless, I did find the main character interesting and the story does  sort of grow on the reader even when all pieces of the puzzle have not  fallen into place. However, I have read many, many much better pieces of  science fiction - in terms of character, plot and the science aspect. This  would not be one that I would consider a 'classic'.	2000-01-04
US	50940744	R3AKAIYLRJGQ1E	0399131868	30408037	O-Zone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great SF from a 'serious' writer	Another surprise from a writer who keeps reinventing his art, O-Zone is a book about the future we fear, but filled with characters we know and can relate to. Theroux's greatest talent, it seems to me, is the authority with  which he creates the various worlds he presents in his novels. From the  jungles of the Amazon, to big city melodrama, to the fantasy tale of  Millroy the Magian or the harsh reality of The Family Arsenal, he presents  characters and situations that seem too real to be mere inventions. In  O-Zone he tackles the SF genre and does it in style. An almost picaresque  tale of a journey into a forbidden desolate 'outback', by charaters  unfitted by wealth and easy living to deal with what they find, Theroux's  story deals with a range of social and human issues with both excitement  and humor.<br />This book, like so much of Theroux, can be read strictly for  fun or delved into for deeper meaning. All in all, another very satisfying  fiction from one of our best contemporary writers.	2000-01-04
US	50940744	R2AGEGTRVOO6CK	0374522871	31986107	Coming into the Country	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A surprisingly satisfying trip	John McPhee is a writer who seems able to interest readers in anything that captures his attention. The range of subjects that his books cover is striking and his skill at involving readers in subjects that they might  heretofore have thought uninteresting is, in my opinion, unique. This book,  recounting a journey through Alaska - as a pretext for broader commentary  about Alaska and its relationship with the lower 48 - is an excellent  introduction to the state we only think we know. I read this during a long  stretch of living and working in Alaska and found it to be the most  insightful and interesting book on the subject that I had found. As is true  with all of McPhee's books, this one satisfys on many levels, from the  clarity of the prose to the fascinating subject matter. Great stuff.	2000-01-04
US	50940744	R2JQP536B0XGM0	0140122060	635888605	Paris Trout (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	A chilling tale of racism, murder and hypocracy	There is no question that Dexter is a wonderful wordsmith. He knows how to arrange language for the effects he wants. What makes this book much better than just a well written, literate story of racism and murder, however, is  the vivid picture Dexter draws of the main character, Paris Trout, and the  townspeople who tolerate him. Trout is a sociopath who inspires fear in all  those around him. His brutal and selfish actions, however much despised by  his peers, are tolerated rather than confronted. The portrait of his wife -  equally vivid - is a sobering and sad picture of someone struggling to make  a stand for herself. Much of the tension in the book comes from the  relative inarticulateness of the characters and the sense of something  horrible underlying the action.<br />This book is a step up from most  sterotypical stories of redneck racists in small Southern towns. Dexter  writes with the authority of someone who knows the place, knows the  language and knows these people. When finished with the book, the reader  feels that he knows them too. A reading experience that's hard to forget.	2000-01-04
US	50940744	RJNUHFOFFD0KH	0312186843	17928264	Show World: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great beginning; weak ending	Show World is a brilliantly written book about a fascinating central character, but it suffers from structural problems that reduce what should have been a tragic decline to a muddled and uncertain ending. The book is  divided into three parts each of which could stand alone but which,  together, do not add up to a coherent whole.<br />The first section, dealing  with Samantha's early years in college and as a young working woman in New  York, and with her friendship with the dominant influence in her life, her  friend Mimi, is easily the best part of the book. Alternately funny and  sad, this section is insightful and interesting reading. The second  section, which jumps several years into the future to deal with Mimi as a  staffer in the Senate in Washington, DC, is interesting but suffers from  the absence of Mimi. Also, the character of Samantha seems to be a  different person than the one we came to know earlier, and there is little  explanation for the change. The last section - again leaping several years  into the future - is set in L.A. and is the weakest and least satisfying as  story. Again, the character of Samantha has transmogrified into someone we  don't recognize, and even though Mimi is just offstage, she is not a  central player in the dialogue and action. Finding Sam reduced to working  as a PR flack for a third rate pop music group is not only distressing, but  doesn't allow for much of an interesting story. We don't care about these  people. They are so shallow and the 'tragedy' of their lives - drugs,  alcohol and sexual excess - are the stuff of tabloids and Barnhardt pretty  much presents them at that level.<br />It is a shame. The first part of this  book really sets the reader up to care about Samantha and to be ego  involved with her career and ambitions. We don't even recognize her in the  addictive and sexually confused person whose decline is chronicled in the  last part of Show World. I missed her - and Mimi - and would really liked  to know how we got from where we started to how it all ended.to know how we got from where we started to how it all ended.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R2ADZXNJU0X9OH	0156443791	978079605	The Inheritors	Books	5	36	39	N	N	To see ourselves as others see us	This amazingly inventive piece of fiction takes on some of the same themes the author dealt with in Lord of the Flies, but in a surprising way. In this novel, the protagonists are the last of the Neandrathals who are in  deadly conflict with emergent Homo Sapiens for their survival. Golding  imagines these people as being essentially pre-verbal and it is a testiment  to his skill as a writer that he can create effective characters without  the tool of dialogue. Because of this convention, and the need to keep the  story from the Neandrathal's (not quite human) point of view, it takes some  time for the reader to achieve an understanding of what is happening and  why. It becomes, nevertheless, a very moving story and one of the more  inventive tales in serious modern literature.<br />As a companion piece from  the current Homo Sapien point of view, one might want to read Beards novel  about a hypothetical new jump in evolution, Darwin's Radio.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R2FY7DGL0GD75F	0449227545	999720718	The Hammer of Eden	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Hardly earth shaking	None of Ken Follett's books are really boring and all can keep the reader's attention during the reading of them. However, I can still remember clearly a number of scenes from Eye of the Needle more than a  decade after reading the book. Only a couple of weeks away from reading The  Hammer of Eden I can hardly recall anything significant about either the  characters or the plot. The book was marginally interesting - primarily  because of the plot set-up, which, however implausible was at least unique  - but poor follow thru and limp characters result in a story that doesn't  add up to Follett at his best. Too bad, because when he is good he is very,  very good. Not here, however.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R25L4WJ3VVU0WJ	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	5	9	14	N	N	An engrossing and intelligent story	Greg Bear's Darwin's Radio is a deeply satisfying plunge into science, politics and the politics of science. The story, based on speculative extrapolations from what we know of current microbiology and the mystery  surrounding much of what constitutes the human genome, presents us with a  hypothetical situation in which the most basic aspects of human sexual and  social life are threatened by our own genetic code responding to a hostile  environment. An evolutionary leap to a new type of creature - and a new  mechanism for conception and birth - frightens both the scientific  community (unwilling to give up decades old views of how evolution occurs)  and the body politic, leading to social disruption and 'science' conducted  in 'bad faith' directed by administrators more concerned for their position  and agency's funding than in truth.<br />This is a novel that challenges the  reader's attention and understanding. Many characters and numerous  different threads of the plot are presented impressionistically until the  full nature of the story emerges. Once the reader is fully into the flow,  events happen quickly and the stakes are raised with every new insight. It  is hard to put the book down.<br />This is a book that just begs for a sequel.  The ending, which I found to be both exciting and uplifting, leaves the  reader wanting more, as if the novel up to that point had been a foreward  for a much larger and more speculative story. What happens to Stella Nova  (and the others of her kind)? What is their impact on the world? Can the  NIH and CDC get out from under the false direction of partisan politics and  make a stand for what science, rather than political expedience, dictates?<br />The reader will be left to ponder these questions, whether Bear ever  chooses to deal with them in another book or not, because by the end of the  story one is too much involved with these isssues to just let them fade  away. Not only that, but one won't be able to think about 'scientific'  agencies that are connected to the government in the same way again. The  book is an eye opener in many ways, and a brain teaser as well. Just a  fabulous book.cientific'  agencies that are connected to the government in the same way again. The  book is an eye opener in many ways, and a brain teaser as well. Just a  fabulous book.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R10OYUBROB34E8	0671201565	495327206	The Evolution of Physics	Books	5	64	64	N	N	The horse's mouth	While it would seem likely that one should go to another source to explain what Einstein's work really means and how it came about, this extraordinary book, coauthored by Einstein and Leopold Infeld, is perhaps the most cogent  and interesting account of the origin and implications of relativity theory  ever written. It offers the general reader - even those of us not steeped  in Physics and physical theory - a fascinating glimpse of one of the most  significant intellectual leaps of the last century. Much more comprehensive  and engaging than such relativity 'primers' as Russell's ABC's of  Relativity, it is both a very stimulating and readable account.<br />Since  Time Magazine recently selected Einstein as the Person of the Century, it  seems timely to recommend this book as a fascinating introduction to the  mind and work of someone who is normally thought to be beyond ordinary  human comprehension. That he is an exceptional intellect is beyond  question. What is remarkable is that he is able to communicate clearly to  those of us less blessed with brillance. This is a wonderful book for any  who have an active interest in how the universe works and how revolutionary  new insights about the universe can be achieved with thought alone. An  amazing book.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R2U8NTG1IF4OZS	1568490151	112045642	Parkinson's Law	Books	5	93	98	N	N	Great wisdom in a small package	Parkinson's Law briefly stated is that 'work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.' If it doesn't seem that an entire book could be written about this thesis then you haven't encountered the  imaginative genius and the stinging comic wit of C. Northcote Parkinson. He  is able to use this little insight as an analytic tool to expose much of  what is wrong with organizations and why much in both business and  government seems at odds with common sense. For example, why the British  Colonial Office has grown in number of employees as the actual number of  colonies declined - so that it employed more people when the number of  colonies had been reduced to zero than when they were at their highest  number. Witty, brilliant and always right on the money, Parkinson can make  what should be deadly dull - a description of bureaucracy - into a  delightful excursion through the halls of pompus human folly. Really great  stuff. This book is a classic and can be read and reread with great  pleasure.	2000-01-03
US	50940744	R2JUL2E4NNNE77	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	21	24	N	N	How NOT to be a missionary	This powerful story of one family's experience as white missionaries during the terrible days of the Congo's independence struggle with Belgium, is at once both a wonderfully engrossing tale of the character's struggles  to survive on the edge of the jungle and a strong indictment of the hubris  of western efforts to graft its own values onto an incompatible  culture.<br />The story is told from the points of view of the wife and  children (3 daughters) of the American missionary (Southern Baptist) who  has come to the Congo to spread the 'word of God' among the heathens. What  this man doesn't know - about the culture he is dealing with, the land he  must live in, the politics that will ultimately control his family's future  - is legion. He takes the view that if he is sincere in his work, then 'God  will provide.' While Alexander Campbell said that a Christian should be 'a  fool for God', missionary Nathan Price is a fool in every other way as  well. He blindly endangers his own life and that of his wife and children  by his refuseal to learn even the simplest aspects of what any sane person  should know in dealing with an unfamiliar land and culture. Tragedy, of  course, follows. Nathan, perhaps, deserves it. But the suffering that is  felt most strongly is that of his family, and each tells their unforgetable  story in a unique, personal voice.<br />Kingsolver's prose is perfect for the  job. The language, by turns, is beautifully lush or  painfully spare. There  is humor to relieve the inevitable trauma(s) to come and a great  descriptive passages that breathe life into the story's setting. The  weakest character is Nathan, because he doesn't have a voice of his own,  except the actions and words reported by his family - each of whom comes to  fear or despise him as it is more and more clear that he is living in a  fantasy world.<br />This is a painful and emotionally heavy book, but also a  very beautiful and significant piece of work. The ending will seem too  muted and subdued for those wanting a solid wrap up, but it is perfect for  a novel that looks back across a whole lifetime at events many years in the  past.o  muted and subdued for those wanting a solid wrap up, but it is perfect for  a novel that looks back across a whole lifetime at events many years in the  past.	1999-12-30
US	50940744	R362OSNVQO7ML	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	4	136	144	N	N	An evocation, not a thriller	Snow Falling on Cedars is an interesting, low-keyed book about a time and a place unfamiliar to most readers.I enjoyed a it lot, both for its language and its human insights. I would never have expected, however, that  this book would generate such extremely divergent responses from readers.  Some think it is the best thing they ever read and others damn it as a  waste of time. There is no question that much of what the critical reviews  say is true: the book is slow, it is very long on detail, it jumps around  in time, it doesn't focus on the 'mystery' and the trial, and the ending is  somewhat predictable. But none of these things can be criticisms unless the  author intended the book to be more fast paced, plot driven, and have a  snappy surprise ending. The readers are really complaining that the book is  not what they wanted or expected it to be - some more traditional mystery,  love story, thriller type book - the kind of books that the shelves and  best seller lists are full of and that demand nothing from the reader and  deliver even less.<br />This book, on the contrary, is an evocation of time  and place. It is largely 'memory' even though it is not a first person  narrative. It asks the reader to relax into a poetic reverie on who these  people are and how they came to the situation upon which the plot turns.  The author does not push the mystery element except as an excuse to uncover  more information about his characters, their relationships and the origins  of their current lives.<br />Not everyone enjoys this kind of book. Certainly  those who gravitate towards Jackie Collins or John Grisham should not be  expected to find this to their likeing. Even those who read only 'serious'  literature have special tastes and only some will appreciate this.  Snow  Falling on Cedars has a quiet voice and a simple mind. It doesn't shout at  the reader and it doesn't present any concept of great difficulty or  moment. The themes it deals with - love, justice, betrayal, honesty, etc -  are all very basic and fundamental to narrative, and the author has nothing  really new to say. Still, the packaging is pretty and the end result for  the reader who enjoys the quiet, poetic tone of the book, is a great  satisfaction.ayal, honesty, etc -  are all very basic and fundamental to narrative, and the author has nothing  really new to say. Still, the packaging is pretty and the end result for  the reader who enjoys the quiet, poetic tone of the book, is a great  satisfaction.	1999-12-30
US	50940744	R7IXIRJ96GPRQ	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A man three quarters full	I loved reading many of the other reviews for this book. There is such a great variety of strong feeling that I can only hope it was what Wolfe was after. He certainly got under a lot of people's skin. The principle  objections to this book, that the ending is weak and the story is too long  and meandering, while both being true, don't really undermine its great  strengths - wonderful writing, larger than life (though 'real') characters  and a plot that not only highlights numerous real social issues but shows  how they tend to rub up against one another in unexpected ways. In other  words, there is a messiness to even the thematic aspects of the book that  seems to be intentional and true to life.<br />Wolfe can't help but  exaggerate. That is what satirists do. Yet those who complain that the  characters aren't real or are stereotypes seem to really mean that they  don't like these people; 'real' people would be, I guess, someone they  could identify with. Yet, if Wolfe had chosen Donald Trump or Ross Perot as  his hero, could his description be any more 'believeable' or less  stereotypic than his portrayal of Charlie Croker? Seems to me that the rich  complexity of ego, selfishness and lack of self awareness that come to the  fore in his characters (including those in Bonfire) is a very human, very  common and very real thing. We are all unbelieveable stereotypes to some,  but that doesn't make us  less real.<br />And I especially liked the reviewer  who starts his review by saying 'Too many words.' This is so like the scene  in 'Amadeus' when the King says to Mozart that his compositions have 'too  many notes.' For those of us who love the bite and flash of Wolfe's  writing, there can never be too many words, even when they don't add up to  the full measure that Wolfe is striving for.	1999-12-30
US	50940744	RX07SHBDIJ3VB	034038784X	25579300	Perfect Spy	Books	5	67	75	N	N	So much more than just a spy novel	This book is so much more than just another espionage thriller. It is really a character study of the central figure and a very satisfying psychological investigation into the anticedents of a spy's character.  Magnus Pym was the perfect spy because of the way he was raised;  specifically, the way he learned to perceive the world as he came to  understand his father - a con man of great charm (based on Le Carre's own  father) who always acted as though truth was whatever he wanted it to be at  the moment.  Maybe the title actually refers to the father and not to Pym.  Perhaps?<br />Le Carre's use of language is always a pleasure, and here it is  put to excellent use in recreating the world of Pym's past. The main plot  of finding the missing Pym becomes less important than the subplots - often  involving past events - and the overall structure of the novel is less  driven by unknown outcomes than is a typical 'spy' story.<br />One is left  with a great sense of sadness after finishing this book but no  disappointment. Very original and very satisfying.	1999-12-29
US	50940744	R3O7QGOJ6P6BH7	0140184945	158590394	The Comedians (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A  Good Place and strange laughter	To call a novel about the most horribly repressive and violent period in Hatian history The Comedians is typical Graham Greene irony. The main characters, Jones (a Brit expatriate on the run from a never disclosed  shady past), Smith (a vegetarian crusader who was once a splinter candidate  for U.S. president), and Brown (a man of no real country who has inherited  a run down hotel in Haiti from his absent mother) are all rootless failures  playing at life who are brought together in Haiti during a time of terror  and political chaos when the country was descending into a kind of  primitive madness. Against their will and in ways they don't anticipate,  they are each sucked into the vortex. How they respond highlights the  questions that Greene is forever posing about faith, redemption, commitment  and responsibility.<br />The dreams of each character, flimsy as they are, are  doomed to fail in a land where utilities and civil order have broken down,  where beggers predominate and order is maintained by the Tontons Macoute,  the zombie figures in dark glasses who dispense Papa Doc's brutal 'justice'  and leave the evidence of it lying beside the road. Smith, who with his  wife, wants to start a vegetarian center in the Haitian capitol, flees the  country when he realizes that he must resort to bribes for the simplest  permissions and even then the promises are a sham. Jones, who tries to con  the Hatian government into buying arms that he doesn't possess, is  uncovered as a fraud and flees to a South American embassy for protection  (the British don't want him - or want him too much). Brown, who wants only  to be left alone to run his hotel and pursue a pointless affair,  nevertheless finds himself acting time and again to help one or another of  the other characters (including a number of Haitians), all the while trying  to remain emotionally neutral and uninvolved. He fails, and his failure  brings on the book's one clear success, a good end for Jones who escapes  the embassy, with Brown's assistance, to join and train a small band of  Haitian guerrillas in the hills. At the end, having found 'a good place',  he dies a comic but heroic death. He did not, it seems, actually know  anything about warfare, having served in the army only in the entertainment  division. His lies finally catching up. But as one of the Haitian survivors  says - he was good for the men - he made them laugh.the embassy, with Brown's assistance, to join and train a small band of  Haitian guerrillas in the hills. At the end, having found 'a good place',  he dies a comic but heroic death. He did not, it seems, actually know  anything about warfare, having served in the army only in the entertainment  division. His lies finally catching up. But as one of the Haitian survivors  says - he was good for the men - he made them laugh.	1999-12-29
US	50940744	R1XSV51MRESCCO	0345420438	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A dark update for Graham Greene	Anyone who has ever read both Graham Greene and John Le Carre knows that Le Carre is a stylistic and thematic descendent of 'Greeneland'. Nowhere is  this more evident than in The Tailor of Panama which seems to be a  retelling of Greene's Our Man in Havanna with a darker world veiw and a  more menacing 'humour'. In Greene's story, a down and out inoccent allows  himself to become a 'spy' so that he can supplement his meager income.  Since he has no real knowledge of what he is doing he invents stuff to keep  his handlers happy and  the consequence is real world misery from which he  is lucky to escape with his life. The story is both funny and horrific, and  the characters are among the best drawn in any of Greene's works. In The  Tailor of Panama, Le Carre has tells much the same story, set in Panama  rather than Cuba, except that his 'hero', a successful tailor to the well  to do, is pretty happy with his life but is coerced into spying. He has (as  is true of many of both Greene's and Le Carre's characters) a past that he  can't afford to have revealed. He too invents information which is simply  not true, having no real idea of the full consequences when that  information is believed by those professionals who should know better.<br />What I really found different in the two books, both of which I like a  lot, is that Le Carre's satire is harsher and has more of an edge than  Greene's. There is less foregiveness, less tolerance here. And the central  character, while drawn with great skill and understanding, is not as warm  or charming as Greene's. Instead, Harry comes across as sad, pathetic, and  more than a little annoying.<br />I think it would be a great exercise to read  these books back to back. Despite their obvious similarities, the pleasures  to be drawn from them are quite different.	1999-12-29
US	50940744	R3LO2SV8KASP6U	0446400300	149571034	Voodoo Ltd	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Thomas outdoes Thomas	Apart from the fun of another Artie Wu and Quincy Durant adventure, this book provides the additional pleasure of uniting them with some of the more memorable charcaters from other Thomas novels. Georgia Blue, former  government agent turned killer provides a special tension for Durant in  this novel, and con man Maurice &quot;Otherguy&quot; Overby (It wasn't me -  it must have been some otherguy who looked like me) brings his own just  outside the law talents to bear.<br />The plot seems a little extreme, even  for Thomas whose plots can twist like you wouldn't believe, but he always  seems to exaggerate a bit when he is dealing with either California and/or  the entertainment industry. Still, the book moves at such a pace and the  dialogue and one-liners come so thick and fast that one doesn't have time  to fret about how likely some of the convolutions are. This is high speed,  fun, great reading.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R1IQRLOBPZIOJ8	0446401803	154364168	No Questions Asked	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Pleasant reading but not the best of Ross Thomas	No Questions Asked is part of a series of books that Ross Thomas wrote under a pseudonym. I have always felt that these books lacked the brilliant fire that one gets in all of Thomas's other fiction. The hero of the series  is a peculiar invention - a 'professional go-between', a middle man for  every situation who functions in roles ranging from negotiator to  detective. Like John D. McDonald's hero, Travis McGee - a professional  'finder' of things lost or stolen - this allows St. Ives to find himself in  numerous dangerous, life threatening situations with ample opportunity for  plot twists and betrayal. But unlike McDonald's books, these stories lack  the strong cast of supporting characters, a sense of place and, most  important, a central figure that is really memorable. This is strange,  because Thomas can create characters both sympathetic and loathsome with  great skill, and does so in all the novels created under his own name. But  St. Ives seems (much like his profession) something of a contrivance, and  doesn't engage the reader's empathy in the same way that McCorkle, Padillo,  Artie Wu or Quincy Durant do. I have often wondered if by writing under a  name other than his own, he had assumed some characteristics of the made up  author that limited what he could achieve. Whatever, these books are  missing something that one finds in all his others.<br />Still, the books are  fun to read. For all that might be missing, Thomas is still a master  craftsman and his language - both in exposition and in dialogue - is  superior to the vast majority of thriller writers. I have never finished  one of his books and felt cheated. He is simply the best at what he does.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R2W1RS8SXOVXYH	0140074139	531724221	Missionary Stew (Crime, Penguin)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Nothing is what it seems	Like all of Thomas's books, this one presents the reader with a world where just beneath the surface of ordinary reality danger and betrayal lurk just waiting for the hapless figures he creates to step in whatever new  qucksand he has perpared. This book is vintage Thomas with believable  characters, great dialogue, memorable lines, a convoluted but engrossing  plot - full of surprises and ultimate satisfactions.<br />I just can't believe  that most of his books are out of print. This stuff is great reading. There  is nothing else like it.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R204NKJM7IBIH4	0446400599	126111321	Twilight at Mac's Place	Books	5	18	18	N	N	There should really be a &quot;Mac's Place&quot;	It is a testiment to Ross Thomas's skill at invention that my wife and I have frequently lamented that there really isn't such a bar as Mac's Place. After reading the several novels in which it figures, along with its  owners, McCorkle and Padillo, I have a hard time believeing that the dark  and excellent establishment, with its distintive staff and quiet mysterious  air, can't actually be found if one were to look hard enough among the side  streets in D.C.'s Northwest quandrant. But alas, it's all made up. Yet what  a great invention. Thomas makes every aspect of the fictional world he  presents to the reader totally believable. This book, like most of his  others, has enough plot elements to fuel three or four books by any lesser  author, yet he binds these together in a compact story that both surprises  and satisfies. McCorkle and Padillo may be older and slower, but the world  they inhabit is as dangerous, treacherous and interesting as ever.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R22QKE6A400FOM	0449219410	309570895	Skin Tight	Books	5	123	126	N	N	Can a weed-whacker be funny? You bet!	I am always amused when I see Hiassen's books referred to as 'mysteries' or 'thrillers'. People who want these kinds of books won't really find them in Hiassen's work. What he creates are darkly comic morality plays about  excess - specifically that of south Florida. What is wonderful about his  books, apart from the zany characters, great dialogue and memorable  absurdaties, is that in each one we see the 'forces of evil' suffer the  fates they deserve. Maybe good doesn't triumph in real life, but Hiassen  gives us the satisfaction of seeing horrible things happen to horrible  people.<br />In Skin Tight, Hiassen gives us his usual cast of interesting and  very peculiar players drawn from the mix of modern day Miami. Without  giving any of the plot away, I will only say that there are two things  about this book that I bet will stay with any reader: the fate that befalls  the vain  and insufferable TV host in his Geraldolike quest at expose and  the character Chemo's choice of a prosthesis - a weed-whacker. These are a  couple of the overthetop high points in Skin Tight, one of Hiaseen's  grizzliest and funniest tales.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R3ROCYNTUI7WWU	0446401730	897731979	The Money Harvest	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A believable political thriller	This book demonstrates one of the strengths of Ross Thomas's writing, a grounding in truth derived from experience. His own backgrown allowed him a number of jobs that touched on politics, labor organizations, and public  relations. He understands the behind the scenes aspects of financial and  political power and he uses that knowledge to great effect in The Money  Harvest. This is a political thriller that feels like it is true. No  exaggerations and no two dimensional characters. This is the real stuff of  human give and take, betrayal, murder and coverup. Like all of his books,  the central figure is confronted with a world where nothing is as it seems  and no one, seemingly, can be trusted.<br />If you enjoy a mystery,  interesting character presentation, surprising plot twists, wonderful  dialogue and a satisfying conclusion, you will love this book. I started  reading Ross Thomas because I enjoy books set in Washington, DC - but this  proved to be the least important reason to read him. His books aren't  'inside the beltway' books so much as they are human stories of intrique,  betrayal and survival. He wrote a lot about Washington because he lived  here but what one gets in the full range of Thomas's writing is the modern  world in all its ugly and beautiful complexity, seen from the somewhat  cynical eyes of one who has seen, perhaps, too much.	1999-12-28
US	50940744	R1KGWHFB9JJTJQ	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	5	277	298	N	N	Exaggerated but true	Boyle's The Tortillia Curtain differs from other books of his that I have read in that it tackles a serious set of social issues head on. Among the other reviews posted here for this book I see that some have claimed that  the book is 'unrealistic' and makes use of every stereotype imaginable.  Well, while one wouldn't want to pretend that all Southern Californians of  means are shallow conspicuous consumers, nothing in the portrait Boyle  creates here rings untrue. There must be thousands of people who fit this  image. That being the case, it is important to make the point that he  doesn't present either the Yuppie Californian family or the Mexican  immagrant family as a symbol. They are real people. They don't stand for  anything else. And while the extreme dichotomy posed between the wealth and  well being of the one and the poverty and marginal health of the other do  serve the purpose of highlighting the issue of the extreme inequities in  the distribution of goods and services in this country, Boyle does not  suggest a solution. Rather, he is interested in showing us what happens  when these extremes come into contact in unexpected circumstances. What he  has given us is a story of people in different circumstances responding as  they likely would - as their training and experience have prepared them to.  If we want to make an allegory of it, I don't think that is what he  intended. I think that all he is saying is that extremes of expectation, in  conflict, will generate extremes of behavior.<br />I enjoyed the book very  much. Apart from Boyle's considerable skill with words, his characters were  vivid and the plot - though heavy on coincidence (hey, it worked for  Dickens) - is interesting and keeps the reader focused till the end.	1999-12-27
US	50940744	RMH41IIIHR32P	0380725355	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Even Block's 'less than best' is better than most	There are no bad Matthew Scudder books. While I agree thatEverybody Dies is not as good as some of the previous Scudder books,Lawrence Block on any bad day can out write almost anyone else doing this kind of thing. There is a familiarity of place, character and action about these books that always satisfies. The writing is spare and evocative and seems perfectly tuned to the violence and the moral ambiguity of the world that Scudder inhabits.<br />I don't know what others sense as lacking in this book, and I doubt that I can put my own impressions clearly, but it seems that as Scudder's domestic scene has become more stable, some edge has been lost from the character. I think I liked it better when his woman was still turning tricks and he seemed more lost and unhappy. It added a dimension to the stories that I miss.<br />Nevertheless, I will continue to read Block's Scudder series as long as he wants to turn them out. They are a fine way to pass a few hours	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R84YF31MNX1YY	0805037586	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	5	207	214	N	N	The more you give, the more you get	Thomas Pynchon's Mason &amp; Dixon is a huge, tough book. It is not beach reading. It is, however, very clearly a masterpiece. Without a single throw away line or phrase, this is a book that requires a lot of attention and,  perhaps, some preparation to read. A somewhat satirical novel, written in  the peculiar style of 18th novelists such as Fielding, the book presents  the reader with a number of challenges: conventions of physical  presentation (overuse of capitalization, strange abbreviations and variant  spellings), sentence complexity (each sentence can contain such a number of  clauses and phrases that one can reach the end and have to reread to figure  out what modifies what), density of line (each sentence is packed with  allusions, puns, jokes as well as whatever it is ostinsibly about),  and  subject matter (the plot is pretty straight forward but many of the  situations and digressions require the reader to have a knowledge of 18th  century literature, science, politics and conventions in order to make  sense of what is happening).<br />The story is 'told' by the Rev. Cherrycoke  to his twin nephews (named Pitt and Pliney - so they could be called either  'the Elder' or 'the Younger' as one chose) and the narrative's 'point of  view' shifts dramatically (and with no warning) so that at times one is  'in' the story and then abruptly back in a room in Philadelphia where the  story is being told. You have to pay attention.<br />The book is full of sly  humor and outrageous wordplay. Anachronisms abound. In one scene a  character is enjoined to avoid the 'hemp' on his travels, but if he must  smoke to not inhale. There are strange scenes that seem to defy any  reasonable convention. For example, the L.E.D (the 'Learned English Dog'),  a dog who can speak, do complex mathematics instantly and figures in a  pivotal and unforgetable scene. There are whole sections of the book based  on facts of history or aspects of convention that are not explained and  require the reader to provide the context. A good example is the section on  'The Ear'. The ear in question was a pretext for Britain going to war on  the high seas, but without the correct historical context, the entire  surreal section makes no sense.<br />This book, therefore, requires careful  attention and, if one has no knowledge of 18th century history and culture,  some preparation before starting it. It is one of those books that need to  be read slowly - perhaps aloud, almost like an epic poem, so that the  resonance between all the allusions and themes can be appreciated. The more  one puts into this book the more one will get out of it, but perhaps never  get to exhaust all the meanings. I suspect there are doctoral dissertations  for decades to be made from this book.<br />Still, despite the complexity and  even allowing for sections that might mean nothing if one doesn't have the  'key' to unlocking them, the book works as a travel tale, a 'buddy' story,  a revisionist, picaresque, historical novel in which famous characters (Ben  Franklin, for instance) make comic or bizarre appearances. Witty,  intelligent, sexy, exciting and thought provoking by turns, the book is a  pleasure to sink into.e the reader to provide the context. A good example is the section on  'The Ear'. The ear in question was a pretext for Britain going to war on  the high seas, but without the correct historical context, the entire  surreal section makes no sense.<br />This book, therefore, requires careful  attention and, if one has no knowledge of 18th century history and culture,  some preparation before starting it. It is one of those books that need to  be read slowly - perhaps aloud, almost like an epic poem, so that the  resonance between all the allusions and themes can be appreciated. The more  one puts into this book the more one will get out of it, but perhaps never  get to exhaust all the meanings. I suspect there are doctoral dissertations  for decades to be made from this book.<br />Still, despite the complexity and  even allowing for sections that might mean nothing if one doesn't have the  'key' to unlocking them, the book works as a travel tale, a 'buddy' story,  a revisionist, picaresque, historical novel in which famous characters (Ben  Franklin, for instance) make comic or bizarre appearances. Witty,  intelligent, sexy, exciting and thought provoking by turns, the book is a  pleasure to sink into.	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R8GH2NDSI64WS	0399145087	636904914	Black Notice (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	2	53	66	N	N	The last of these I will ever buy	I think it is safe to say that Patricia Cornwell has, in her most recent books, gone far astray from the excitement and originality that were exhibited in her first few Kate Scarpetta novels. In Black Notice she  'treats' us to a basically unbelievable story full of subplots about office  politics and her niece's bad attitude that simply detracts from any ongoing  narrative thrust. Cornwell long ago went over the top with the seriel  killer theme, the neurotic Dr. Scarpetta theme, the lesbian niece theme,  and the decline of Morino theme. Readers are wanting, I think, to see some  new sense of life in Scarpetta and a fresh direction, but in this book we  get bleak, neurotic, angry characters doing equally bleak, neurotic and  angry things to one another. No fun.<br />And, isn't the gimmic of making the  FBI the bad guys and ATF the good guys a bit much? Given the publicity that  has attended Cornwell's real life problems with the FBI, I believe readers  would rather not see her carry the feud into her fiction. It cheapens it  and just adds another dimension of heaviness the reader doesn't need to  deal with.<br />If I were Scarpetta's boss, I would insist she take a  sabbatical and seek help. Since a tug of war over her position has been a  theme in more than one of Cornwell's Scarpetta books, it ill behooves her  to present her heroine so scattered, irrational, and on the edge.<br />Maybe  Cornwell should take a sabbatical from Scarpetta.	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R2G7EUW6QDLZ5	0684870932	15663511	People of the Century: One Hundred Men And Women Who Shaped The Last One Hundred Years	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Well written and interesting though a biased list of greats	This presentation of 100 great people of the century (as selected by the editors of TIME) is noteworthy both for its bias and limited scope - it is heavy on Americans and late 20th century personalities - and for its  writing. Each person is presented to the reader through an essay, and most  of these essays are not capsule biographies so much as meditations on the  nature of the person and his/her influence. The strange pairing of certain  authors and subjects (Elie Wiesel on Adolf Hitler or Salman Rushdie on  Mohandas K. Ghandi) allow for some interesting insights and speculation.  More sympathetic pairings of author and subject (George Plimpton on  Muhammad Ali, Rita Dove on Rosa Parks, Philip Glass on Igor Stravinsky)  offer equally interesting, though less speculative, pieces that are quite  fun to read.<br />Overall, the quality of writing in the book is quite high,  and even when it isn't (as, for example in Bill Gate's essay on the Wright  brothers or Lee Iacocca on Henry Ford) the insights of the author - because  of who and what they are - allow the ideas to take on a level of  significance that makes up for so-so skills as an essayist.<br />I received  this as a Christmas present and spent most of Christmas day reading through  all the essays. It provided a very pleasant way to review the century we  are leaving. My one regret with the book is the inclusion of a few subjects  that simply don't belong (Brue Lee, Bart Simpson? )which necessarily  restricted the field that could be included. It is, of course, a personal  bias and everyone will have their own take on who should or should not have  been represented, but in the entire list there is only one novelist, one  poet, one composer, one painter; yet there are numerous political and  military figures. Understandable in terms of overt impact on history, but  it sells the cultural aspects of the century short._	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R20BBJQUD4DXGC	0060914602	265450821	All We Need of Hell: A Novel	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Crews restores the 'body' to fiction	Having just reread All We Need of Hell, I am struck by what I think Harry Crews accomplishes better than any other contemporary - he creates real bodies. His characters are built on a particular fleshy foundation and in  his prose, more than that of any other author, one senses the tension in  the muscles, the rhythm of the heart, how it feels to pick something up and  carry it, what physical 'balance' actually feels like and how deeply  somatic are the emotional states routinely experienced by human beings. No  matter how they try, most writers come at the physical self from the  outside, through descriptions of what a body looks like or with descriptive  abstractions of what one 'feels'. Crews starts with the fact of the body.  What is it like when it is angry - what are its characteristics? His  description and dialogue seem to be built out from this basis.<br />That being  said, All We Need of Hell is one helluva physical book. Not only is he main  character (like Crews himself) a lifelong amatuer athelete with a self  destructive bent, but much of the action is purely physical and centers  around running, handball, sex, fighting and some clearly 'slapstick'  physical humour.<br />This is a rich and satisfying book. Short and  bittersweet, it is perhaps more 'fun' than many of Crews's books. At least  everyone doesn't die or get mutilated (much) as is typical of his earlier  work. I found on rereading it, just as I had on my initial reading more  than a decade ago, that the book is strangely optimistic and envigorating.	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R3D2WE8UDQSU25	0060176946	242626972	Society of the Mind: A Cyberthriller	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A very intelligent and entertaining look at cyber future	This book is a surprisingly complex mixture of engrossing story telling and cautionary speculation about the future of computing and artificial intelligence. In structure, the book is almost two distinct stories which  become interlocked in the complex, and perhaps too dizzingly quantum leaps  of the conclusion. Nevertheless, the characters are human and interesing  and the science is plausible and well worth thinking about.<br />This is one  of those books that will have you engrossed almost from the first and then  leave you thinking about its implications long after you have put it down.  A very worthwhile reading experience.	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R37Y2Y7VL0YYA6	0813017092	586208327	Getting Naked with Harry Crews: Interviews	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Watching Harry spin	I think that even someone who has not read any of Harry Crews could be fascinated by this collection of interviews. Crews, a self proclaimed redneck from rural Georgia, has over a thiry five year career published  some of the finest fiction to come of out the south. But unlike the more  typical genteel southern writers (Faulkner, Ransom, Tate, Lytle, Foote,  Percy or Price for example)whose books, even when they deal with poverty  and hard times, tend to a 'literary' language and an oblique view of the  subject matter, Crews, in contrast, is confrontational, colloquial,  profane, angry, violent, shocking, grotesque and really, really funny. His  is a unique voice and perhaps an acquired taste, but no question that it is  the real stuff.<br />This book of interviews captures the writer (typically  having just finished a project) at various stages in his publishing career  from 1972 to 1997. To read all of these in one setting, as I did yesterday,  is a bit much, because over the years some of the same questions (and  answers) recur reqularly, so that it begins to seem a lot like a  candidate's standard stump speech. One does see Crews presenting the same  stock answers to questions about his use of 'freaks' in his stories, his  favorite authors, the impact of drinking (and drugs) on his writing, and  his specific writing habits. Still, each interview has at least one moment  of unique insight and many are delightfully entertaining. Moments of pure  Harry such as informing a female interviewer that despite being on the  wagon his sexual powers have not deminished or, in another interview after  speaking at length about being sober for a year, he downs several carafes  of white wine because he doesn't really think it counts.<br />Those who have  read and enjoyed Crews should really get a lot of pleasure from the  perspective that these interviews give us of his work. Those who haven't  read him can get a real flavor for his attitute and language. What you  can't get from this book is the flavor of that genius for character and  story that is uniquely hisom this book is the flavor of that genius for character and  story that is uniquely his	1999-12-27
US	50940744	R17XIEAPFC7P6U	0060974761	574824148	The Anarchists' Convention: Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The fire underlying all his films	Those who love the independent films of John Sayles should really experience this collection of short stories. Not surprisingly, Sayles proves to be as good a writer as he is a film maker. Further, the genises  of many of his film ideas can be seen in these tales of ordinary people  living in extraordinary times.<br />Sayles has a feel for working people and  the intricate forces that over the decades has shaped their lives. He  understands, as few contemporaries do, how complex and unlikely is our  history. The multiple forces of political and social unrest that led  immagrants from numerous countries to forge an uneasy peace with  conservative white bread America is a constant given in his world view. He  has such an eympathy with people of all ages and backgrounds that he is  able to give life to his characters using words snd images that seem like  they have to be true. Like his films, the stories are long on talk and  situation and short on plot. This is only a failing if one doesn't care  about the people he portrays, and he is so skillful at making them real and  interesting that the reader's sympathy is almost guaranteed.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R3MZRKUXXMYME5	1859848346	407999104	The Book of Saladin: A Novel (The Islam Quintet)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An interesting take on an important historical figure	This enjoyable historical novel gives us a different perspective on the period of the Crusades. In this book, Richard the Lionhearted is the bad guy and Saladin is the central figure. Actually, Richard is a minor figure  as the story is really the story of the significant years of Saladin's  reign. Told from the perspective of a Jewish scholar who is chosen to be  Saladin's personal scribe and biographer, the story is both that of the  scribe and of Saladin - and the chaotic time in which their lives  intersected. The book suffers, I think, from a meandering plot line and  seems to give as much attention to gossip in Saladin's harem as to the wars  with invading ifidels and rival figures in his own world. Still, a  fascinating and well written picture of a time and culture largely unknown  to modern readers. Quiet pleasant and informative.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	RJNI4V2U35PGS	0312140444	946483413	Seeing Calvin Coolidge in a Dream	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A unique gem of a book	This novel is like no other book I know. It is a strange brew distilled from ingredients that would not seem to go together but that somehow add up to a rich and satifying mix. The story is that of a Chinese immagrant  living in suburban America - an ex Red Guard whose current life is totally  different from his past. The protagonist's tastes and sensibilities are  delightfully unexpected and the gentle pace and almost wistful storyline  belie what we expect in a modern novel. For reasons that I cannot fully  articulate, I really loved this book. The main charcter's strange 'take' on  America, the Englsh language, aspects of contemporary culture, family,  life, love - and even Calvin Cooledge - are wonderfully presented and leave  the reader (at least this reader) wishing that he could actually know and  talk to this person.<br />John Derbyshire has done a wonderful job of  breathing life into a character and providing the reader with something  special and unexpected. I look forward to his next book.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R2QKDF5RZVANNK	0805210555	920707464	Franz Kafka: The Complete Stories	Books	5	60	72	N	N	Nothing like this before or since	Kafka has to be the one of the most influential writers of the century, not just for his ability to capture the alienation and unreality of much of modern life but because his vision, which is simultaneously totally bizarre  and strangely moving, freed writers to try more and more daring ways of  expressing themselves. After all, if one can write a moving story about a  man who wakes one morning to discover that he has been turned into a huge  cockroach, what can't the writer do?<br />The impression left by these stories  is all the more interesting when one realizes that Kafka wasn't a starving,  drug or drink demented artist, but a minor clerk in a German insurance  firm. A dull and orderly life. Of course, if you've ever worked for an  insurance company Kafka's sense of unreality and alienation might seem  natural.<br />These are unique and wonderful concoctions. Anyone who wonders  what 'Kafkaesque' really means should take a peek into his world. These  stories are the best place to start. Then on to The Trial for the full,  gruely experience. Wonderfully horrible.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R3LXOSTIZSH820	0688122523	10434820	Empire of Bones: A Novel of Sam Houston and the Texas Revolution	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A hard look at Sam Houston and early Texas	This is a very enjoyable work of historical fiction. The character of Sam Houston is one of those American originals that seem so perfect for fiction that it is hard to believe he ever really lived. The exaggerated aspects of  character - the dramatic costumes, high intelligence, temper, ambition,  sensitivity, appitite and energy - all seem to be perfectly Texan,  perfectly larger than life. Any number of good accounts of his life could  be, and have been, written. What makes this retelling of the period of his  life when he fought the Battle of San Jacinto significant is that it isn't  simply a tale of the good guy Texans getting revenge on Santa Anna and the  bad guy Mexicans. In this more balanced and reasoned telling of the tale,  that great variety of human ambitions and greed that spark most wars and  revolutions, is shown as a prominant part of the struggle to wrest Texas  from Mexico.<br />The cast of characters is interesting and the depiction of  that early period in Texas history seems realistic and believable. The  climactic battle of San Jacinto is told in hard detail and the probably  over bloody response to the surprised Mexican forces shows that whatever  cruelties the Mexicans were willing to meet out to those at the Alamo,  their avengers were capable of as well.<br />A really interesting and  satisfyfing book. I don't know if Texans would go for it, but this  Tennessean sure did.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R1CJKSZRXE36PD	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Works well on several levels	This very engrossing book is both an interesting detective story and an interesting insight into Soviet life in Moscow at a certain time in the near past. By setting what would otherwise be a traditional murder mystery  (with some traditionally current grotesque elements) in Moscow, Martin Cruz  Smith is able to introduce a host of fresh elements into a tired genre. The  Russian hero has a whole different set of personal and professional  concerns than would his New York counterpart, and the characters and  situations encountered are likewise different, strange and interesting  because new to this type of fiction. Finally, the basic plot - the nature  of the murder and the crime's solving - are totally dependent on the Moscow  setting.<br />Great stuff. A real original and highly recommended for anyone  wanting something different from the same old stuff.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R3EMO91MQGD0H0	0312146957	873574527	The Old Forest and Other Stories	Books	4	29	37	N	N	Wonderful prose but I can't relate	I have a confession to make. I don't like these stories. I recognize the strengths of Taylor's story telling - the elegant language, the depiction of emotional tension in simple things, the clear progression of 'story' or  theme from setup to inevitable conclusion, but I can't get past a deep  dislike for his characters. This is a personal failing. Taylor's fiction  depicts a world that is inhabited almost exclusively by a certain class of  affluent, white, middle class city dwellers whose lives are bounded on the  upside by manners, fashion and ritual (in imitation of an upper class to  which, presumably, they aspire)and on the downside by a stiff reticence and  correctness of behavior to insulate them from their inferiors (not only  their black servants but also whites of a lesser social and economic  standing). I grew up in Nashville, TN at a time when this world was rapidly  passing away, but I have met people, more than a few, who could have  stepped from the pages of these stories, and almost without exception  developed a deep antipathy for them. Their overt arrogance which seemed to  mask a great fear of the world 'outside' always made social intercourse  with such people strained and unsatisfying. There is nothing like being  politely condescended to to make the recipient want to deliberately break  convention and strike through the mask. So it's personal.<br />I have read,  and reread, these stories enough to see that Taylor's characters are  frequently as frightened of change and the possible corruption of contact  outside their little world as I had sensed in the real Taylor-type folk I  have met. There is great skill in his presentation of this tension, but it  doesn't lead me to empathize, much less sympathize, with his characters.<br />Any given person's response to a piece of fiction is going to be colored  by a host of factors over which the author has no control, and no writer  ever had universal success at generating the response he desires the reader  to have. In the case of my response to Taylor's stories, I fear that my  dislike of the specific milieu (and its inhabitants) that is his chosen  subject will forever keep me from a full appreciation of his work.ader  to have. In the case of my response to Taylor's stories, I fear that my  dislike of the specific milieu (and its inhabitants) that is his chosen  subject will forever keep me from a full appreciation of his work.	1999-12-16
US	50940744	R16ONWSVFES26O	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Doctorow does it better	While I have to admire the goal that Carr sets for himself in trying to write a historical novel that has the same psychological impact as Silence of the Lambs, I don't think he succeeds. Neither the history nor the  thriller aspects are sufficiently realized. The serial killer theme somehow  seems absurd in the milieu in which it is presented and the introduction of  real historical figures just detracts from rather than adding to the story  - much like a star cameo in a movie (&quot;Look ma, that's John Wayne as a  Roman Centurian&quot;). So, even though Teddy Roosevelt was the police  commisioner at this time, having him as a character in this story just  seems to divert attention from the story, especially since we don't get a  picture of T.R. as a fully rounded character.<br />Then too, the language of  the book seems unnaturally stiff. I assume that Carr has adopted this style  because he thinks it appropriate to the period and to the nature of his  hero - an early version of a forensic psychiatrist. But for the reader, the  style is painfully artificial and mutes whatever sense of verisimilitude  may be achieved by other period detail.<br />I personally think that E. L.  Doctorow handles this kind of fiction better. His plots are not as bizarre  and his style is much more pleasing to the ear.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	RE82ABQ7Z5PHC	067152819X	335589396	Look Away	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A pretty stiff period piece	This book is something of a change for Harlold Coyle who has shown a talent in previous novels for making the technicalities of weapons systems an integral part of his military oriented stories. He seems less  comfortable dealing with war in a historical period, where the men were  clearly more complex than the guns and the outcome of the war is a forgone  conclusion. I read this book with some interest, but nothing like the  attention I was used to with one of Coyle's books. I just didn't feel like  his heart was in it. Unlike Shelby Foote, who writes about the Civil War as  if he had seen it with his own eyes, Coyle's book seems to be made up of  whole cloth. One doesn't even sense a great deal of historical research  behind the writing. Of course, just because I don't see it doesn't mean it  wasn't done, but something about the subject and its presentation just  seems inappropriate for Coyle's personal talents.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R35EBO99BOU02K	0671003879	124716761	Savage Wilderness	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Entertaining but incomplete	While I enjoyed this book much more than Coyle's Civil War books - perhaps because I knew less of this history so was not as critical - I still feel that he is not totally comfortable with historical fiction. Apart from some  obvious anachronisms, what seems most strained in this book is Coyle's  effort to present fully rounded and believable native American characters.  Unfortunately, as drawn, these characters have the stilted 'noble redman'  quality that American Indians are frequently stereotyped with - even the  'bad' ones.<br />Still, Coyle's story is entertaining and his characters are,  for the most part, engaging. I would have preferred more follow through - a  more clear rounding out of the story so that one had some sense of what had  happened to all the main characters. It seemed like a lot was left  unresolved (so there can be a sequel?).<br />In any event, as Coyle continues  down the path of historical fiction, each book seems to be better than the  one before.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R1B2RVJJMBXP6A	0375407936	270121541	The Border Trilogy: All the Pretty Horses, the Crossing, Cities of the Plain (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A unigue experience	It is hard to know what to say about books such as these. They are beautifully written - though McCarthy's style takes some getting used to - and the characters, especially the young men who are central to the three  books, are vividly drawn. The plot(s) seem almost incidental to the imagery  of the landscape and internal psychological pain of the protagonists,  however. One would have a hard time summarizing the 'story' of these three  books, yet it is there. But within the story it is always the moment, as  expeienced (though seldom understood) by the central characters, that is  important.<br />These books have been characterized as 'coming of age'  stories, and that is certainly what they are to some extent. But the  overall feeling evoked by the author is not one of coming into something  but of loss - not just of innocence but of hope, opportunity, an entire way  of life. The contrast between the border country in America and the much  more primitive conditions in Mexico serve, in all three books, to highlight  the change that is coming to lives that used to be simpler.<br />Each of  these books can be read alone. They don't continue a coherent storyline.  But read together, with their slight differences in tone and image, the  reader is left with a heavy sense that life will now be alientated from the  land and the simple imperatives that individual survival demands will be  replaced by order and artificiality. McCarthy's hero's sense of tragic loss  is believeable and understandable.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R3RUGKO13TU245	0553108174	298857171	War Of The Rats	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Great build up; poor follow through	I enjoyed this book tremendously at first. The premise - a duel to the death between the two premier snipers available to the Russians and the Germans in the ruins of Stalingrad - held promise of an exciting story and  grand climax. Unfortunately, the story seems to lose focus early on and  limps to an unsatisfactory conclusion, leaving the fate of some of the  characters unknown. I enjoyed the main characters, but felt that not enough  was really done with them. Most of all, I missed a bigger sense of what was  going on in Stalingrad. Granting that the duel between the two protagonists  is the real story here, the 'stage' was sketched in with very little sense  of the numbers of soldiers and the complexity of daily existence here.<br />Ultimately, I just didn't feel that what I was reading was true. The  story seemed pared down for effect, while the conclusion seemed more like a  whimper than a bang. I was hoping for much more.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R1C7L075OZO6LM	0785811141	892026872	Blood, Tears and Folly: An Objective Look at World War II	Books	5	27	27	N	N	One terrific book	Despite its subtitle, this is NOT an 'objective look' at World War II. Whatever else Len Deighton may be - and he is certainly a terrific writer - this book bristles with opinions and may fairly be viewed as a long  argument, using very detailed analyses of weapons, events and  personalities, to demonstrate that much of what is now taken for true about  the war is myth. Deighton takes especial delight in puncturing certain  British pomposities, and while he is not the first, he is certainly one of  the best writers to turn the spotlight of a considerable intelligence on  stupid and self-serving decision making. He shows repeatedly the human cost  of decisions that seem to have been made out of misplaced allegiance to a  particular branch of the service or from clinging to unfounded beliefs in  the face of all conflicting evidence. He seems to be saying to his English  audience that though Britain 'won' the war, it was only through exceptional  sacrifice, accident and outside intervention.<br />While this book can be  enjoyed as a war history - heavy on specifics related to combat on sea,  land and in the air and light on political and social aspects - it is  especially interesting as argument. The comparison of weapons systems,  especially in light of the brief histories that Deighton presents showing  how each country had positioned itself (or not) for the war, allows the  reader to see much that was already known in an entirely different light.  We leave this book feeling as though we have really learned something new.  No mean feat when we consider that this is the most written about war of  all time.<br />Deighton manages to make his use of detail and specific  anecdote work by employing his skill as a story teller. And his story  becomes more significant because it is really a very involved argument.  This is a book that is satisfying on many levels and one I strongly  recommend to anyone interested in the history of our era. One doesn't have  to agree with Deighton's opinions to appreciate the clarity of his writing  and thought. This is simply one terrific book.ghton's opinions to appreciate the clarity of his writing  and thought. This is simply one terrific book.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R326NTSGV3HS5B	0671731386	784715836	Fields of Fire: Fields of Fire	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A gripping war story by one who was there	James Webb is a terrific writer. As a former marine infantry soldier who experienced the war in Viet Nam first hand, he could have taken that experience to extremes as some writers have, either exaggerating the Gung  Ho comeradere of the soldier's experience or attacking the war itself as a  meaningless and senseless horrer. Instead, while showing clearly the  dehumanizing effects of terror and hardship that marines in the field  experienced, he manages to make the reader care about the characters - even  while honestly presenting them with their many faults. He doesn't turn his  head away from brutality and inhumane actions on the part of his  characters. Rather he creates a world where normal values have to be put  aside in favor of survival, and even those characters one might dislike  initially because they are crude, viscious and stupid, take on an almost  larger than life image as they survive and help their buddies  survive.<br />Webb can really write. This is a book told with the authority of  one who was actually there and has thought long and hard about his  experiences. The characters are skillfully drawn, the action of the story  moves forcefully forward with few lulls and the descriptive passages and  dialogue are so right on that one really believes that this is real - these  people, these actions.<br />This is an excellent book and should be  appreciated both by those who had the first hand experience and those who  didn't.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R1V1Y5YYD7WIFT	0140060898	329849771	The Mosquito Coast (Penguin Essentials)	Books	5	100	101	N	N	Hubris in a jungle hell	Paul Theroux never repeats himself and what he chooses to present in each book is quaranteed to surprise anyone who has read any of his other books. In this novel, part travelogue/adventure and part American social critique,  the chief character is one of the most fascinating and least likeable  figures I have encountered in recent fiction. An American genius with no  patience for the opinions of anyone else and a hatred for most of modern  life, determines to take his family into the jungles of South America,  where he sees himself becoming something of a saviour to the natives -  bringing them a few simple forms of technology that will uplift and  transform their lives. Instead, he plunges himself and his family into a  hell of conflicts that he doesn't even try to understand.<br />The story, told  from the point of view of his initially adoring (and fearful) son, follows  the decline in the family's fortunes until it is clear that it is the  father himself who is their real enemy. A tragic and deeply moving tale,  this book stays in the mind - not always pleasantly - long after it has  been read.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R17PJ5UTCY3R5S	0241112559	894320932	Doctor Slaughter	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very original concoction	This is the unlikely story of a young female Ph. D. who, upon finding that she isn't makeing enough money to live the life she would like to, becomes a high price call girl at night. She takes this step rather matter of  factly and there seems to be little or no squeamishness expressed at such a  career move. After all, her clients are men of quality - business and  government officials who are polite and can afford to pay. Her only  complaint has to do with the kind of intercourse many of her clients want  (I will leave the specifics to other readers to discover). The complication  in the story occurs when a high government official becomes one of her  regular clients and they develop a real fondness for one another. Further  complications come from a regular Arab customer who intends to use Dr.  Slaughter's relationship with the government official as a way of setting  up his assassination.<br />For those who have seen the movie 'Half Moon  Street' on which this book is based, the two are quite different. The book  is better; the characters are more real and the overall emotional impact of  the book is move satisfying.	1999-12-15
US	50940744	R1T7AFMG1TDU01	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Most comprehensive story of the early civil rights movement	As race has been a defining issue in American politics for the last two centuries, no understanding of our time can be complete without a thorough knowledge of the civil rights movement. This book, beautifully written and  carefully researched, is the most comprehensive picture of the early part  of the civil rights movement that I have seen. Engaging as a story, this  book manages to capture the full flavor of that great tide that swept away  the old 'Jim Crow' south.<br />Taylor presents it all: the protagonists, the  movements and counter movements, the outrages that helped turn public  opinion, the individual dramas that played out against the larger conflict.  Never boring and never doctrinaire, this book builds chapter by chapter, a  momentum just as the movement did, leading up to the triumphant March on  Washington.<br />Though Martin Luther King, Jr. is central to the story, this  is not a King bio, nor does it deny space and attention to those others,  black and white, who played key roles during this time. This is simply a  fascinating book on a very important subject. I suspect it will be read as  the definitive view of this period for some time. It is hard to imagine it  being topped.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R1ZHA2QPJNXO0Z	0345410033	269581555	Games People Play: The Basic Handbook of Transactional Analysis.	Books	5	116	126	N	N	A new way to look at old behavior	This book is Eric Berne's popularization of Transactional Analysis, the approach to understanding and treating realtionship disorders that he largely developed. Whatever its efficacy as a form of therapy, it is a  fascinating way to veiw ordinary human interactions. I first read this book  more than two decades ago and have gone back to reread portions of it ever  since.<br />While Berne's categorizations of pastimes and games seems  somewhat skimpy (after all, behavior is infinitly richer than any theory  can easily handle) the basic assumptions of Transactional Analysis provide  a new way of understanding much that people do that otherwise seems either  meaningless or baffeling. It is a real contribution to understanding  ourselves.<br />My life is not 'game free' but at least I recognize more of  the games I play, and am less likely to mistake their arbitrary rules for  life and death imperatives.<br />Definitly worth reading for anyone who values  self examination.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	RM8PNVC5YIPQW	0684844257	306214571	Deadly Feasts: The "Prion" Controversy and the Public's Health	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Downright frightening	This book is as scary as any nonfiction piece I have ever read. Extrapolating from the Mad Cow epidemics in England, Rhodes examines a whole new type of viral infections whose effects are ghastly in the  extreme. It would be nice to be able to disparage this book by saying that  Rhodes is simply another doomsday author trying to drum up fear just to  sell books, but his Pulitzer Prize winning credibility makes the reader  look at his message carefully. If he is right, humans may not be long for  the planet.<br />Is that a good thing - or a bad thing?	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R6CF5DY8S4AMV	0679735429	76659216	Shiloh: A Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A small peek at a large battle	Shelby Foote's Shiloh is a novel about a real Civil War battle told from the point of view of a few common soldiers, both northern and southern, who fought there. Because he chose to depict the action from these points of  view, he limits what can be said of the big picture. If one can ignore that  big picture, the book works very well at showing the reader what the  experience must have been like for individuals caught up in different parts  of the fight. Yet needing to provide some of that picture, Foote has each  character present background on specific generals and their actions leading  up to Shiloh. This exposition is, for the most part, pretty clumsy and  simply detracts from the first person focus.<br />The problem I have with the  book is that the reader doesn't get to know any of the characters very well  and overall outcome of the battle is unclear. This is a really small book  (just over 200 pages) and while the images are graphic and the characters  accessable, the author just doesn't have the space to spread out and let  the reader develop a real emotional response to these characters and their  actions. Nor is he able to provide any perspective on the battle and what  it means - even for the individual characters he has presented.<br />I think  it helps to have read the section in his narrative history of the Civil War  that deals with Shiloh. But this means that the novel doesn't really stand  on its own. The reader must come equiped with prior knowledge or be left  with questions that will require some research. Perhaps not bad, but I  would have preferred a more comprehensive treatment - something more like  Tom Wicker's Unto This Hour. That's just personal taste. Foote did what he  intended and did it well. I can't help it if I just want more.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R11GGF4KQFGH4H	0449004392	262130304	The Children	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Another important and really big book from Halberstam	David Halberstam is one of those writers who seem to have more words than he can reasonably use. His books fairly bulge at the seams and yet in reading any of his works, it is seldom that a reader feels that too much  has been included. As a reporter he seems to have fallen in love with the  tangible fact, the telling detail, and he fills his books with them. The  Children, an account of the young men and women who initiated the 'sit ins'  that sparked the early civil rights movement, is as richly detailed as a  Durer etching. The cast of characters is large and the setting in which  they are placed is brought to life with great skill.<br />Halberstam has a way  of making sense of things that might mystify most writers. He does this by  creating a meaningful context and by deomonstrating meaningful connections  - between actions as well as characters. There is a lot of book here, and  one can easily loose sight of the story line by getting bogged down in some  of the detailed digressions that he seems to love, but taken as a whole,  this book makes real the mostly unremembered young heros who drug their  elders kicking and screaming into the movement.<br />I think this is a very  important book and deserves a place on any bookshelf devoted to our recent  history.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	RLX5BDA4ZHYK	0140430571	608778610	Erewhon (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	66	66	N	N	The most brilliant satire of the 19th Century	I have just reread Samuel Butler's Erewhon, a book described by Lewis Mumford as having 'a sunny malice'. Personally I don't find anything malicious in this tale. He does stand just about every taken for granted  convention of Victorian society (and the world still) on its head, and has  great fun doing it, but the end result is to force the reader to think long  and hard about much that is usually accepted without thinking.<br />In  Erewhon, criminals are considered to be ill and are 'treated' by  'straightners' who make them well, whereas those who have physical  illnesses (or suffer bad luck) are considered criminal and are tried and  punished. Thus an embezzler will be treated for his 'illness' and the party  who was robbed will be tried in the Court of Misplaced Confidence. The  consistency with which Butler carries through with this conceit is  impressive and consistently entertaining, and this is only one of the  'curious' conventions of Erewhonian society.<br />My favorite part of the  novel is the section that purports to be a classic text from the College of  Unreason, 'The Book of the Machines'. Modeled on Darwin's writings, this  text explains how machines are on an evolutionary track that will surpass  and then come to dominate their human creators. The detail of the argument  is impressive (the discussion of 'vestigial organs' in machines is  hysterical and accurate), and no matter how far fetched it must have seemed  in 1872 when the book was published, it seems much less a satire and more a  serious fear today.<br />This is a book of great intelligence and wicked  humor. As a simultaneous mind stretching exercise and laugh generating  experience I can think of few novels of any age that are its peer.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R2EG1VGS8HEVHT	0671502336	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The ultimate life affirming book	No book written in my lifetime has had a greater impact on my thinking or provided such a rich reading experience as Catch-22. More than just an antiwar screed, this sprawling novel with its intricate plots and huge cast  of characters is a complex story of survival in an absurdly tragi/comic  war. It manages to be both hysterically funny and saddly moving while  forcing the reader to look differently at such concepts as 'honor',  'heroism', 'patriotism' and 'cowardice'.<br />As several reveiwers have  pointed out, the book is slow to start. Part of that has to do with the  author's need to seduce the reader to his peculiar veiwpoint, to introduce  the numerous characters and to set the stage that will make the absurd seem  normal and the normal seem absurd. Once perceived, the structure of the  book is a joy to experience. The recurring interrupted flashbacks, the  seemingly unrelated subplots and digressions, the cast of characters, each  stranger than the one before, all reveal more and more as the book  progresses so that by the end one feels enmeshed in a real story of real  people - though it is totally crazy. As if Lewis Carroll had written The  Inferno instead of Dante.<br />Some of the scenes and characters are as  inventive as anything ever writtn and remain vivid in the mind long after  the book is finished. Yossarian is a complete person, but much that he  experiences is fragmented and bizarre. The 'soldier in white' (all readers  will remember this one) is a perfect example of Heller's genius. This scene  is both horrifying and hysterically funny, and goes to the heart of the  book's message.<br />Joesph Heller died yesterday. I will miss him because  there will be no more Heller books. But in truth, though he continued to  write and produced a series of interesting novels (including a sequel to  Catch-22), nothing else that he produced came close to having the magic and  the impact of that first one.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	RSI07F0AMMBOG	055327886X	779432511	Rubyfruit Jungle	Books	4	18	20	N	N	'Lesbian fiction' or just good fiction about a lesbian?	I am struck by how many of the reviewers felt they had to categorize this book as 'lesbian fiction.' OK, it is written by a lesbian and its central character is a lesbian and most of the book deals with issues related to  sexual orientation. But all books have to be about something, and whether  one is a lesbian or not, this book deals with the same human issues that  confront everyone in growing up and makeing a place in the world. The very  things that some of the reveiwers criticise - the humor and lightness of  touch on some serious issues - is exactly what makes this book accessable  to the reading public at large and really saves it from being simply  'lesbian fiction'. It is a truely entertaining and (for those who need it)  informative book. Lesbians may, indeed, have a predisposition to like it  because the themes are more immediate and personal, but all readers can  relate.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R1NX1BGILP5B5Q	0451523822	178013325	Fathers and Sons	Books	5	51	56	N	N	Still modern after all these years	In Turgenev's Fathers and Sons, as in most of Chekhov, nothing much really happens. People talk a lot and that's about it. Should be dull, right? But it isn't. The talk, and the characters revealed, reflect the profound  changes that were being felt in Russian society at the end of the 19th  Century; changes that would set the stage for much of what was to happen in  the 20th Century. But more important to a modern reader, the ideas and the  real life implication of those ideas are as current and relevant as when  Turgenev wrote. Bazarov, the young 'nihilist', sounds just like the typical  student rebel of the 60's (or of the Seattle WTO protests just recently).  He has the arrogance and the innocence of idealistic youth. He is as  believeable, and as moving in his ultimate hurt, as any young person today  might be confronted with the limitations of idealism and the fickle tyranny  of personal passion.<br />I loved this book when I first read it as a  teenager and I enjoyed it even more on subsequent rereadings. It makes the  world of 19th century Russia seem strangely familiar and it gives many a  current political thread a grounding in meaningful history.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R1XCX2KU4CP6JO	0684848090	280599935	Pillar of Fire : America in the King Years 1963-65	Books	4	13	13	N	N	More tangled than Parting the Waters but just as good	The rather straight line story of the civil rights movement that is told in Parting the Waters becomes much more tangled and complex in Taylor Branch's second book. Here the movement begins to intersect more directly  with the other currents of social unrest in the country and the conflicts  both within and outside of the movement blur the lines of clear right and  wrong.<br />This is a great piece of social history with the civil rights  movement and MLK as the focus. The more success King achieved the more  pressure he was under - both from his enemies and his supporters. This was  a difficult time for the country and for all those who were - in whatever  way - trying to change it. Branch does an invaluable job in trying to  distill the mass of detail and the great complexity of the sociopolitical  scene into a coherent story. It's harder to do here than in the first book,  but he manages nicely. Good job. Worth reading carefully.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	RYBPUJWWHGV9O	0671768468	229807052	Dream City: Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C.	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Will the real Marion Barry please stand up	This fascinating book about the current state and recent history of our nation's capital focuses largely on the story of Marion Barry, who was, when the book was written, both a once and future mayor of the city. How  much blame Barry must shoulder for the city's social and economic problems  is a question that remains to be answered, but the detail provided by the  authors, both journalists with long experience of the city and its  politics, offers fascinating glimpses into the reality behind the mask. One  story alone is worth the price of the book: Marion Barry, who has long  tried to identify with the city's most downtrodden, at one time (when he  first went into politics) hired an exconvict to teach him how to 'talk  street' so that he wouldn't sound too educated (he has an M.S. in Chemistry  and was working on a Ph. D. when he became involved in the civil rights  movement - not the Marion Barry I thought I knew).<br />This is a fascinating  book. A bit out of date now, but containing material I have not seen  anywhere else that helps explain some of the very bad times D.C. has  experienced in the last few decades.	1999-12-14
US	50940744	R3RGBUZQ7VEWV1	0393317684	196428416	The Correspondence of Shelby Foote and Walker Percy	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Like eavsedropping on a fabulous conversation	I don't know when I have enjoyed a book of letters so much. Usually such things represent only a given writer's letters to a variety of people. This volume is a correspondence between two friends that covers five decades and  in it one is able to see them grow, change and take delight in a constant  verbal duel that must have been going on from the time they first met as  teenagers. For two decades this 'conversation' is mostly a monologue  because Foote didn't start saving Percy's letters until the 70's, but it is  often easy to imagine Percy's letters from Foote's responses - his  answering specific questions and arguing against certain statements.<br />It  is so much fun to see Foote trying for 50 years to get Percy to read  Proust, and Percy simply ignoring the injunctions. This is just one of the  ongoing literary 'wars' that are fought between these two significant  writers who, while being diametrically different in style and theme, were  the closest of friends from the age of 14.<br />I found that once started, I  couldn't stop reading. From the first chatty letter from Foote in which he  proposes his desire to be a great novelist to the last 'letter' - a message  read at Percy's memorial service - the book has the forward momentum of a  good novel, the intellectual give and take of a Platonic dialogue and the  warmth and humor that only good friends can bring to lifelong  disagreements. I think this is a great book and, for all who think that  literature is important, a wonderful window into the thinking of two fine  minds.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	RDFMQMJY24ER	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The best short story collection I ever read	Perhaps one of the reasons I never cared for Catcher in the Rye was that I came to it after reading Salinger's Nine Stories, which in every way seems much superior. These stories work in a way that many collections of short  stories by a single author don't, because of a unified tone and single  vision that is at once both bleak and yet sympathetic to what is  fundamental in the human condition.<br />I first read this collection more  than 30 years ago and have reread all the stories numerous times with great  pleasure. It is a shame that Salinger retired so early, but even if he had  left nothing but this one short collection of stories, he would have  secured a place among the significant writers of the 20th century. Through  a style that is disarmingly simple and direct, he manages to touch reader's  feelings deeply. And while in his later Glass family novels he slips into a  kind of 'cute' self parody, these stories are deftly crafted with no  misstep to be seen.<br />This is art that doesn't refuse to have a human  heart.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	R1UY0DUYXLFIBX	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Quite entertaining but basically shallow	McEwan's ease with language and his facile skill with dialogue help to make this samll book a pleasure to read. But there is not enough depth, either in character developement or the expanse of the plot, to add up to  anything other than a seeming sketch for a more serious, detailed novel  that still waits to be written. <br />The characters are types, with just  enough idiosyncrasy and detail to suggest real persons and the plot hinges  on a setup that is all too obvious from the moment it occurs. Though the  language of the novel is a pleasure from start to finish, it merely whets  the appitite for more. Perhaps it is unfair to make these kinds of  judgements. After all, it is McEwan's book and if he felt that under 200  pages was right for the story he wanted to tell, who am I to argue? Except  that the book left me simply wanting a lot more than was forthcoming - more  of the characters, more in the plot and more - much more - of the bright,  sharp language that zips one much too quickly to the book's conclusion.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	RUYIVM1SUTGU2	0385240899	68237838	The Floating Opera and The End of the Road	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Two takes on the same grim story	Of these two novels I believe The End of the Road is the superior. Shorter and with a clearer narrative thrust, Barth manages to achieve a real classical tragedy using only the common material of immature domestic  conflict. More 'serious writing' has gone into The Floating Opera but the  emotional impact is blunted, one suspects, because of that. Perhaps more  editing and rewriting and less demonstration of the 'writer's art' would  have made it as powerful a novel as The End of the Road.<br />The End of the  Road is one tough little book. It is a simple story that could have been  pure empty soap opera but instead manages to rise above its material and  carries quite a punch. Much more deserving of being read than most of  Barth's later work.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	R3BX8C1712WACV	0679737863	984713450	Falconer	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Not the Cheever you expect but fine for all that	I came to this book recently after a period of reading basically junk, so I may have liked it much better than otherwise because it was so superior to the low rent popular fiction I had been consuming. Much bleaker than I  would have expected of Cheever, this story follows a man imprisoned for  murder who must come to terms with how totally his life has changed. Slow  paced and thorough, the 'plot' occurs more in the actions of the  protagonist's mind than in the external world of the prison, yet maintains  its hold on the reader.<br />One aspect of the story that stood out for me was  the matter of fact way in which the protagonist takes a same sex lover,  explaining how important real human contacts - physical and otherwise -  were to maintaining sanity. I think these scenes are both believable and  understandable to the most heterosexual of readers. A further testiment to  Cheever's talent as a writer.<br />I can't say that this is a pleasant book.  But it kept my interest till the end, and I haven't been able to really put  the book behind me. On the other hand, I couldn't even tell you the titles  of the other books I was reading at this time.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	R3VAHIA2L1EJEX	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A Civil Wargasm that doesn't farb out	It's hard to know what to say about Tony Horwitz's Confederates in the Attic. This is a strange book, by turns humorous and serious, in which Horwitz recounts his efforts to come to grips with the American  preoccupation with its Civil War. He admits his own strange fascination -  and with the Confederacy at that - especially peculiar for the Yankee  grandson of a Russian Jewish immigrant.<br />He starts his journey through a  chance meeting with some reenactors who introduce him to this increasingly  popular subculture, with its own set of standards regarding historical  authenticity. This prompts him to travel throughout the south, visiting  sites of significance for the Civil War and interviewing residents to see  how the war survives in current opinion and tradition. Some of these  interviews are with those who see the tragedy in the war and some are with  the Klan types who see the war continuing in the expanded power of the  Federal government and the social changes brought about by minorities. The  words of our fellow Americans cast an interesting light on the continuing  conflicts that seem to be the legacy of the Civil War - or The War of  Northern Aggression - depending on the speaker.<br />One late section of the  book, the great Civil Wargasm - a beat type road tour where Horwitz and a  reenactor friend try to visit every significant Civil War site (even if  only for a few minutes) during a marathon few days of driving - is both  funny and creepy. Quite an experience.<br />I have already given my copy away  to a brother whom I believe will enjoy it as much as I did. I highly  recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War or the ongoing  conflicts it failed to resolve. An original, entertaining and fascinating  book.	1999-12-13
US	50940744	ROEE338EBH2M9	0708981356	633883567	Archangel (CH) (Charnwood Library Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very believable tale of one man against the sysem	Gerald Seymor's books all have a certain thing in common. They inevitably deal with one person (or a very small group of people) pitted against a formidable enemy and tasked with some single purpose to which they devote  all their energy. Perhaps because he was once a journalist, these books all  have the ring of truth. The smell of reality is thick on every page and the  protagonists, though often 'heros' in some limited sense of the term, are  very real and fallible human beings. Sometimes they don't succeed and often  they don't even survive. And even when they do survive, there tends to be a  tragic sense of the cost involved.<br />In _Archangel_, the protagonist,  imprisoned in a Soviet prison camp in the Gulag, wages a one man war  against the camp and the system that supports it. His victories, even the  small ones, provide a great deal of pleasure to the reader. Unlike the  typical stoic inmate portrayed by Solzhenitsn in _One Day in the Life of  Ivan Denisovitch_, Seymor's protagonist is a 'free' man who feels the  unjustness of his imprisonment deeply and fights it at every turn.<br />I  really enjoyed this odd departure for Seymor, whose books have provided me  with some of the most satisfying espionage and political thriller reading  of the last two decades. Though the Cold War is past, this behind the  scenes human drama in the cold Siberian winter, is a satisfying reminder of  what was, ultimately, an unsuccessful attempt to crush the human spirit.	1999-12-10
US	50940744	R1KSY1RHWOQ3U5	0819510289	743602363	Buckdancer's Choice: Poems (Wesleyan Poetry Series)	Books	2	4	15	N	N	No wonder modern readers don't read poetry	Am I the only poetry lover who thinks that James Dickey is tremendously overrated as a poet? I realize that the standards for judging greatness in poetry are vague and complicated by the lack of any generally agreed upon  poetic theory in our day and age, but some poets seem to emerge - either  buoyed up by developing a loyal following of readers or held up by academic  attention. I have to believe that Dickey is one of those whose prominence  was based on academic attention - for whatever reason - and not on on a  real readership. I have never known anyone who read poetry to voluntarily  turn to Dickey's work when they needed a poetry fix. His poems seem  selfconscious, too aware of their images, too quick to use a word because  of some association that the average reader could not possibly know. To me,  they always seemed in bad faith, as if the 'poet' had developed a personal  checklist of what he should include in each of his poems and how he would  go about being 'poetic'. Most important, I feel that these poems are  bloodless. I don't sense real passion in them.<br />I can spend pleasant time  with Wallace Stevens and with Russell Edson, two poets as different from  one another as can be, even when I have no idea what they are saying -  because I at least always have the sense they are trying to say something  important. With Dickey, I frequently have no idea what he is saying and  worse, feel that he doesn't either, beyond the message, 'see, I've written  a poem.'	1999-12-10
US	50940744	R2W2WU7H6X4E2X	0156722518	937010382	Poems Of Richard Wilbur	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Poetry that is accessable and filled with fun	Richard Wilbur will probably never be viewed as a 'great' poet. His poems seem slight and perhaps too easy to comprehend in an age that has put a premium on dense and obscure poetry. His major success as a writer has been  in his wonderful translations of Moliere's plays, but his poems offer the  same kind of appeal as his translations - a keen sense of fun in lanuage, a  fresh perspective and an economy of expression. I suspect that even readers  who don't normally turn to poetry would enjoy the sense of play that  underlies so many of these poems and the elegance with which he expresses  playfulness. Even when the subject is serious, the leaness of the language,  the selection of just the right word or phrase for the purpose, gives  Wilbur's work a kind of classical timelessness. And if one likes reading  aloud, the sound of Wilbur's lines has a full pleasantness that is a joy to  the ear. Reading any of his poems a few times will leave phrases in the  mind just begging to be repeated.<br />This is not poetry to rival Milton or  Eliot for either thematic grandeur or emotional impact. But for the shear  joy of thought embodied in language there is no contemporary poet whose  work is more satisfying.	1999-12-10
US	50940744	R1G70KPCEEJQ6G	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A beautiful study of pain and loss	It is a shame that Cold Mountain was pitched as a Civil War novel because those who came to the book expecting either the battle focus of The Killer Angels or the Old South of Gone With The Wind were bound to be disappointed. Instead, Charles Frazier has written a book about that war's human cost, told in the form of one couple, torn apart and in the process of trying to come back together. Descriptive and slow in presentation - as Inman, the chief protagonist, walks his long journey home to Cold Mountain - the book allows us to absorb the effects of war as Inman and his love experience and remember them. For some of us, this was a wonderful and rewarding experience. Cold Mountain may or may not be a 'great' book, but it deserves better than a simple dismissal for failing to deliver excitement in a predicatable form.	1999-12-10
US	50940744	R2E8938VW06FFK	0140150749	594969094	The Portable Dorothy Parker	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The most fun anyone ever had with anger	I suspect that Dorothy Parker was angry most of the time. It certainly seems so from her writing. Yet she seems to have enjoyed the state of being angry more than any other writer I can think of. This excellent collection  of her poetry and prose presents a brilliant cynical take on the world she  inhabited. One we largely still inhabit. I have heard her condemned as a  product of her time and place, but the insight and emotional connection  that readers still feel from her jabs and verbal skewerings, is quite real  and personal. She had a way of turning the pain in her life into a good  joke - often at her own expense - expressed in a truely memorable way. She  also could deflate others (especially in her reviews) with a skill that few  writers have ever possessed.<br />For those gifted with a little anger at the  world, this book offers a brilliant collection of ways to express it.	1999-12-10
US	50940744	RPZOPFYWXKY4P	0679731199	79499449	Iron John: A Book About Men	Books	2	17	37	N	N	Oh Myth, can you explain this to me?	Robert Bly is a quirky poet whose work I have always enjoyed both for its personal vision and for its unflenching honesty. But this - Iron John: A Book About Men - has me totally puzzled. I read it. I don't get it. I  really see no connection with what is dealt with in this book and my life  as a 'man'. Certainly not in any way that is useful. If I worked really  hard, maybe I could see some suggestions of something that would be  personally meaningful, but nothing about the book prompts me to work that  hard. A friend joked that this was 'Lord of the Flies for Adult Guys,' but  I think even that is more cogent than the suggestive message of the  book.<br />I will continue to read Bly's poetry, but won't waste my time on  any more of this male soul searching stuff.	1999-12-10
US	50940744	ROO1VDCC3HCOU	0684825104	275867460	The Promise of Rest	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An Old South sensibility confronts the modern Plague	It was a great pleasure to (re)discover Reynolds Price in this book. I had put him aside many, many years ago when I read A Long and Happy Life and couldn't figure out what all the fuss was about. My loss, it seems. I must  now revisit the many books he has published over the last few decades  because having read The Promise of Rest, I am sure I have missed a lot that  is worthwhile.<br />This book, about an aging southern poet/professor who  brings his only son, suffering from AIDS, back from New York to die at  home, is a beautifully written and touching portrait of the characters  involved. But more, it is in many ways the typical 'Southern' novel, where  the tragic outcome and any hope of redemption are all bound up with family  history, race, sex, friendship, the 'wages of sin' and the weight of  history. There is a sensibility at work here, as in Peter Taylor's work,  that seems, in its particular experession, uniquely southern but manages to  be, in its effect upon the reader, universal.<br />This is a very moving  book. The only problem I experienced in reading it was a slight twitch  whenever the main character would speak of his own early same sex  experiences. In these scenes, the language Price put into the protagonist's  mouth seemed artifical and strained, and the euphemisms chosen to refer to  body parts and sexual activity were so strange that even a Victorian would  have laughed at them. Nevertheless, the story engaged the reader from the  beginning and despite the inevitability of the outcome, maintained a strong  emotional hold. I was deeply moved by this book, which, like the best of  southern writing, left me questioning much in my own life and times.	1999-12-09
US	50940744	R1TKWYLF97753O	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Control language; control the world	So much has been written by others on this classic text that I will limit my comments to that aspect of the book I feel is still the most important - the manipulation of language to control behavior. Orwell understood how  crucial meaning and communication is to social and political behavior. The  Bolsheviks first and then the Nazis both went to great lengths to  manipulate meaning, creating an acceptable vocabulary of politically  positive words and images and an equally negative vocabulary for that which  was to be vilified and destroyed. Attempting to channel behavior into  patterns predefined by these limited modes of expression represents the  greatest part of the state propogandist's art. Orwell reduced the  complexity of this enterprise to something that could be seen for the con  game it is. His invention of 'newspeak' demonstrates the reducto ad  absurdum of such verbal restrictiveness.<br />In our day, whether Big Brother  is really watching or not, we suffer from some of the same contraints of  limited language and, in term, limited behavioral options. On the one hand  we suffer from a language of polictical correctness that strives to offend  no one, but makes speech clumsy and artificial. On the other extreme we  suffer from the limited categories that the professional news media use -  the narrow meanings available to them for understanding and communicating  what is considered 'news'. Since politicians contribute to this limited  vocabulary and play off of it, it saves them from facing much real in depth  analysis and critique and limits the public to shallow expositions that  distort reality and make meaningful political choice impossible.<br />So 1984  has come and gone and we haven't fallen into the dramatic pit that Orwell  pictured, but the language we use to deal with social and political issues  has been so attenuated that we are in danger of becoming slaves to a  limited set of possibilities because we cannot even articulate any  alternatives.	1999-12-08
US	50940744	R37HW6TZS3U5KJ	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exceptional action and moving human portraits	This novel tells the story of the Battle of Thermopylae where 300 Spartan soldiers held off the entire Persian army until finally being destroyed. Told from the point of view of an imagined survivor, the story has the feel  of real history infused with the immediacy of human feeling. We experience  this historic clash in a more personal and particular way than one might  imagine.<br />A very exciting and moving book. A real pleasure to read.	1999-12-08
US	50940744	R30I0RUAP70LU2	0837604567	187216502	The Last of the Just	Books	5	49	50	N	N	A deeply moving and indelible picture of the Holocaust	Difficult to describe and impossible to forget, this book takes us out of whatever 'normal' world we inhabit and casts us into the horror of the Nazi's 'final solution'. The story of a young Jewish boy - the 'last of the Just' - is so powerful, so full of pain and confusion, so beautifully  written, so honestly realized, that the reader will never be able to forget  it. The last section alone, where the names of all the death camps are  listed, in the midst of a kind of elegy, is among the most moving pieces of  prose I have ever read.<br />Read this book. It will change you and stay with  you when everything else you have read about the holocaust is forgotten.	1999-12-08
US	50940744	R1ECMCH88EZTID	0812545273	992395733	Justinian	Books	5	5	5	N	N	As creepy and crafty as Richard III	Justinian, the emperor, was not a nice man. Vain and self indulgent, he was overthrown and sent into exile. And while the reader may feel that he has gotten his due, this is only the first part of the story. The real  fascinating part of the book is watching him plot and then execute his  return to power. The reader will not identify with this character but can't  help but be drawn in by his long term revenge plotting. What finally  happens to him I will leave for the reader to discover, but the journey we  take with this man, from childhood to his bitter end, is richly detailed  and plotted, and will keep the reader entrhalled.	1999-12-08
US	50940744	R2L6IER7TKW87X	1560009276	401110954	Death by Government: Genocide and Mass Murder Since 1900	Books	5	40	43	N	N	The biggest threat to citizens is their own government	This harrowing book - eloquent through its numbers and not its writing - presents a telling picture of modern governments's assault on the citizens of their own countries. It clearly documents that more deaths in the 20th  Century have been caused by the victim's own governments than by war. The  not so surprising picture told by the stats is that the more repressive and  totalitarian governments show a disproportionate number of murders of their  own citizens, compared to freer and more open governments. What is hard for  the mind to grasp is the huge number of people estimated to have been  killed, directly or indirectly, by their own leaders during our lifetimes.<br />This is a very important book because it makes clear in numerical terms  what we might often have felt but couldn't quantify. If anyone ever had any  doubt that groups like Amnesty International were needed in this world,  this book is the proof.	1999-12-08
US	50940744	R2DWZ4WH4M9GSN	0060192895	623172566	Hunting Badger (A Leaphorn and Chee Novel)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	Hillerman is back on track	Those who love the Tony Hillerman books should really appreciate Hunting Badger. While it is lighter on some of the aspects of Navajo culture that we have come to expect in these books, the strong re-emergence of Joe  Leaphorn's character is a welcome surprise. Even in retirement he is giving  Sgt. Chee fits. And the introduction of a new love interest for Chee offers  numerous possibilities for future stories.<br />What makes Hillerman's books  work are these characters and their struggle to live in the modern world  and yet not forsake that of their ancestors. This dynamic, which plays a  significant part in each of his novels, is what makes these tales something  more than average who-done-its. In fact, it is seldom the solving of the  crime that is the main focus, but how it is solved. Just as the workings of  Sherlock Holme's mind is central to Conan Doyle's stories, the workings of  Leaphorn's mind (and the influence of Navajo culture and tradition) play a  big part in Hillerman's stories. In this one, the study of Navajo myths and  legends plays a big part in cracking the case.<br />I couldn't subsist on a  steady diet of Hillerman, but I would hate not to have a new Leaphorn/Chee  story each year or so to help me slow down the pace of my life and see, for  a few hours, with a different perspective. Very pleasant reading.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	RSFPYYTKBM87Q	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Not so great Gatsby	Response to literature is a matter of taste and taste is often a matter of experience. Those who haven't read much (and widely) are less likely to be able to discriminate between what is significant and what is not. But even  experience and an open mind do not guarantee a positive response to every  classic. I always wanted to like The Great Gatsby because it was one of  those books in the canon of accepted 'great' American books, but repeated  attempts at the book still leave me cold. I don't find anyone in the novel  to care for and if one doesn't care about the characters, one doesn't care  what happens to them.<br />'Gatsby', I think, is a minor book about very  shallow people. Fitzgerald's language seems, to me, overblown and almost,  at times, adolescent. I think it is significant as a document - a  historical marker for a period in American history - but not as a great  work of art, or of entertainment.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R3CNZNYRGH228X	0871401665	301078865	Soldiers' Pay	Books	3	8	20	N	N	Faulkner half baked	This early novel by William Faulkner is interesting as an example of where his style and focus were as a very young writer, before both had settled into the predicatable Faulkner voice of his later and better known books. I  enjoyed the book more when I first read it, I think, than I do now. But one  thing has still not changed. I can remember having to read certain passages  over and over and still not being sure what they were about. I still don't  know. There are those who think this deliberate ambiguity is a plus but I  prefer to be able to follow the plot of a book. I don't even mind working  at it, as one must with a number of writers. But it is frustrating to come  up against an impenetrable hedge of words that crowds out meaning, and this  happens a lot with Faulkner.<br />I have read almost all of Faulkner's books  and enjoyed many, if not most, of them. Frequently moving and always  interesting, these books deserve a special place on the bookshelf of  American literature. But admit it, often Faulkner - even in his later books  - uses words the same way that Jackson Pollock used paint. He sprays,  splatters and dribbles them into a squiqqly mess that might, like a good  Pollock, be pleasing or meaningful in an 'abstract expressionist' way, but  simply doesn't make sense on a purely cognative and narrative level. There  is less of that in Soldier's Pay than one gets later, but you can sure see  it coming.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R1MZQ70WDYA0X1	0345329457	427020672	At the Mountains of Madness: And Other Tales of Terror	Books	5	26	27	N	N	The scariest stuff ever written	I first read these stories years ago while spending the summer with a friend in rural Arkansas. The house had no electricity so we read late at night by kerosene lamp. I can still remember the feelings that these pieces  evoked and how hard it was to go to sleep in the dark afteward. Now, even  as an adult, reading in a comfortabley lighted room, these stories still  scare the hell out of me.<br />There has never been another writer like  Lovecraft. His stories are oblique and suggestive and the reader's own mind  provides much of the horror. He understood what lurked just beneath the  civilized veneer of our consiousness and he manages to tease it out so  well.<br />This is fiction for those who like to feel their skin crawl.  Simply the best of its kind ever.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R33T1QAYV6222Q	0805041524	250809602	The Friends of Eddie Coyle	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Absolutely the best HIggins	George V. Higgins has made a career writing books that are mostly dialogue/monologue focused pieces infused with the idiom of his native Boston. None is better than The Friends of Eddie Coyle. Here, better than  most of his books, a host of characters comes alive out of the give and  take of small talk and rambling conversations, and a (for Higgins) tight  plot emerges as well. This is both an exciting story and interesting  character study of small time hoods in the big world. True Americana and  not to be missed.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R1IJDVN5NO1U0H	0449002632	479109259	London: The Novel	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Michner does it better	Having read Edward Rutherford's other two 'place' histories, Sarum and Ruska, I was looking forward to London, his similar treatment of the history of this most civilized city. But I was disappointed by the lack of  continuity in character development. The leaping of centuries between  sections presented a picture of London in a sort of strobe effect with  major changes taking place that then had to be filled in with clumsy  exposition. Each new section brings on a new cast of characters with only  the vaguest relationship to the story of the characters that were presented  before. I enjoy complex fiction that spans generations, but when there are  centuries between the 'stories' there is not enough narrative momentum to  carry the reader forward and characters are cast aside just as one learns  enough about them to care about what happens to them.<br />This approach to  fiction (interlocking narratives that defined the history of a place) is  the one favored by James A. Michner but he was usually careful to provide  more direct continuity of character and family line so that one had at  least a sense of a common story. Rutherford seems to have been less  successful here and it requires a great deal of attention and resolve on  the reader's part to make the jumps and fresh starts necessary to complete  this 800 plus page series of stories. A previous knowledge of English  history and specifically that of the city of London will no doubt help with  context, but the author alone could have provided the continuity of  character without which no plot can be sustained.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R2I2I2IRLFS33J	0440363586	169523236	Nicholas and Alexandra	Books	4	10	11	N	N	History that reads like exciting fiction	The story of the last of the Romanovs is one that still keeps audiences interested, whether the focus is the revolution or the Mad Monk. This is the last gasp of old style royalty that the 20th Century was to experience  and despite Massie's tendency to somewhat romanticize his subjects, the  domestic tribulations of Nicholas and Alexandra make an interesting and  illustrative foil for the civil strife that was going on outside the  palace. It is fascinating to read some of the anecdotes recounted in this  book that show the Tsar and his family to be, in many ways, an ordinary  family, yet at the same time probably the wealththiest family in the world  at the time. The dispair and extreme poverty of Russian peasantry is very  lightly treated here, but then, this is the Romanov's story and like  royalty everywhere and at all times, they were isolated from direct  confrontation with unpleasant sights and sounds.<br />Whatever else, this is a  great story - of love, family tragedy, political blundering, inepept  military decisions, court intrigue, conspicuous consumption, religious  meddling, hypocracy, self deception, and hope - all part of the opening act  of the new century. The old world of Tsarist glitter passes and the new  world of Bolshevik drabness begins - and Nicholas and Alexandra are, with  their family, caught in the middle.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R1FBB8ICGI000	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Vonnigut's funniest and most intelligent book	I first read Cat's Cradle on trip through Illinois heading for Chicago. I started laughing out loud almost immediately and the others in the car had to hear the 'funny part'. Soon I was reading the whole book out loud and  all of us were laughing our heads off constantly. This remains for me the  best example of Vonnegut's use of black humor to make a serious point. The  characters and plot line are as original as anything he ever wrote and the  humor is still as fresh as ever. This is wonderful, hard edged writing, a  kind of modern day Jonathan Swift tale that mingles science, religion,  philosophy, political upheaval and human nature at its most extreme. The  book keeps us laughing and leaves us thinking.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R3JUVWUKRZ1HU	0679770798	51425776	Jaguars Ripped My Flesh	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Real adventure writing with great comic relief	Cahill's books were recommended to me for some time before I read one. I just couldn't imagine that 'humorous adventure writing' was something that would appeal to me. Wrong! What is great about Cahill's pieces is that the  humor is strictly at his own expense and the adventure is real. Make no  mistake, this guy can really write. For example, when he ruminates about  what is in store for him on a proposed dive in shark infested waters, he  conjures up images of terror that any of us can relate to and then takes us  to laughter with his description of his own terrified reations - which  wouldn't be funny if it was US and WE were going to face the killer sharks.<br />These pieces are a real treat; a taste of a lifestyle that we can only  dream of, and laughs that keep us from being too covetous of it. Cahill is  an American original.	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R21AU8LXE9F7ZK	0937298018	755608535	Science and Sanity: An Introduction to Non-Aristotelian Systems and General Semantics	Books	4	57	60	N	N	A great book that one has to get of in order to get into	This book should probably be on any short list of the century's most influential books but would, ironically, never make a list of most read books. A significant number of people did read and internalize the book's  message and Korzibsky's thought thus found its way into a number of diverse  fields. But despite the wide dissimination of the book's message, the book  itself, because it is so dense and difficult, has never had a wide reading  audience. In fact, early critics made the point that a book about language  and meaning should not have such difficult language that its meaning is  difficult to understand. Yet this is the problem that Korzibski faced -  having to use language to demonstrate the inherent limitations and dangers  of language.<br />I have read the book, having come to it from a number of  popular treatments of Korzybski's work. These at least provided a framework  for understanding what otherwise might have been lost to me in the author's  stiff prose. The book's most basic message, that 'the map is not the  territory' (the Word is not the Thing it represents), can seem trivial when  stated simply. However, only a little analysis will suffice to show how  easily even very bright people fall into the trap of the 'Is of identity' -  the semantic error that is inherent in the syllogistic form of reasoning  that makes use of statements of the form 'All A are B, C is A, therefore C  is B'. Note that 'is' suggests, and indeed often is taken to be, a  statement of identity - that category A is identical in some ways, to  category B. This is false. As words, these simply stand for, or 'point to'  certain things, which themselves are identical only on the verbal level -  the level of conceptual thought - not on the non-verbal level of external  reality.  Because we must use language to think and communicate with others  about that external reality, we always run the risk of confusing what we  say about things with the reality that exits independently of our thought.<br />The full implications of this line of reasoning is vast and extremely  important. From the easy to see fallacy of reification, where having a name  for something lends it a reality which in fact might not exist, to more  complex issues having to do with the levels of abstraction inherent in  various forms of thinking/speaking, this book touches on such a multitude  of important topics that it is impossible to sum up in a few words.<br />Those  new to the concept of General Semantics might do well to start with one of  the popular treatments of the subject such as Hiakawa's Language in Thought  and Action. But if one moves on to the primary text the rewards will be  many. It 'is' a difficult book, but deeply rewardingur thought.  <br />The full implications of this line of reasoning is vast and extremely  important. From the easy to see fallacy of reification, where having a name  for something lends it a reality which in fact might not exist, to more  complex issues having to do with the levels of abstraction inherent in  various forms of thinking/speaking, this book touches on such a multitude  of important topics that it is impossible to sum up in a few words.<br />Those  new to the concept of General Semantics might do well to start with one of  the popular treatments of the subject such as Hiakawa's Language in Thought  and Action. But if one moves on to the primary text the rewards will be  many. It 'is' a difficult book, but deeply rewarding	1999-12-07
US	50940744	R1XO93KESD043H	0684842483	366388689	A Feast of Snakes: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A wonderfully grotesque black comedy	Of all Harry Crew's books, this remains my favorite. On the difficult tightwire that Crews has chosen to walk, this book strikes the perfect balance between the horror and the comedy of life in a universe that  doesn't give a damn about the individual's hopes and dreams. At times both  laugh out loud funny and saddly horrible, this tale of modern day marginal  southern characters is the perfect example of the peculiar universe of  Crew's fiction.<br />Harry Crews has established himself as a kind of southern  gothic Hemingway whose bruised, bloody and always, in some ways, crippled  protagonists seem more foolish than heroic. Yet these 'freaks' are human  and their stories move us. There is a great humanity in Crews books, but  always beneath the surface.<br />A Feast of Snakes is one of those books on  the very short stack I keep on hand to reread with pleasure from time to  time. If you enjoy black comedy - if the exremes of the human condition  strike you as much comic as tragic - then this book might be for you. I  love it.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	RH238VYJHZLFV	0807121800	229744647	When the Devil Came Down to Dixie: Ben Butler in New Orleans	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The Beast of New Orleans as real person	I have always been fascinated with General Benjamin Butler both because of the story of his ill fated term as military governor of New Orleans during the Civil War and because of his physical image. The photographs always  show someone who seems to be a grotesque characature of a human being  rather than a real person, somehow appropriate for a man known as 'the  Beast of New Orleans'. This book is significant not only for its detailed  account of the conflicts and controversy that surrounded Butler during his  time in New Orleans, but also for providing enough complementary material  to see him as more than an evil abberation. The author does detail the  evidence for Butler's depredations - his thefts, corruptions and overzelous  application of lethal force - but also provides ample evidence that he was  a complex and sometimes thoughtful person as well. In one case, he condemns  a man to be hung because he had pulled down the union flag. The man's wife  and children go to Butler to plead for his life. He refuses to stop the  hanging but promises to be of whatever assistance he can be in the future.  Years later the widow approaches him to say that she has been cheated by  her lawyer out of her life savings and that she and her children are in  jeapordy. Butler finds her a government job and, at his own expense, sees  to the children's education. A very complex 'devil' indeed.<br />For those who  enjoy new light cast upon old oversimplified history, this book is  excellent. Well written and with a lot that is new to say, this book  represents a chance to actually learn something new rahter than simply  revisiting the old story.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R1LJLO3OX1AFZP	0156005379	856617745	Medieval in LA (Harvest Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Age of Faith confronts the Age of Reason in modern L.A	This little book is a gem. Subtitled 'A Fiction', it isn't clear what is really fictionalized. Nothing actually happens here. The narrator, someone named Jim - like the author - leaves San Francisco - where the author lives  - to visit friends in L.A. for the weekend. They see an art show, go to  dinner, to a Hollywood party, sleep, have breakfast and then go to the  beach. That is the sole action, but these prosaic occurances provide the  pretext for the author's internal ruminations about the Age of Faith's  transition into the Age of Reason. Jim sees himself as still a Medieval man  (Jim Paul is described on the book jacket as a 'poet and medievalist')and  his internal dialogue becomes a kalidescopic montage of events and  arguments about what the modern world is and isn't, and his place in it.  Berkeley, Hume, Augustine, William of Ockham, Gallileo, Bertolt Brecht,  John Cage, MTV, modern cinema, the Bible, pop music, Chaos Theory, Newton,  and numerous anecdotes from his personal expeience and that of his friends  and those he meets, are all woven together into a minor but thoroughly  satisfying meditation about human intention and life's meaning.<br />An  entertaining notion presented in the book is the concept of the 'suckhole .  . . a stupid accident that winds up altering the future you had in mind.' I  will add this to the Cosmic Joker as an explanatory principle to use as  needed.<br />On the whole, this book is a very pleasant and fun way to spend  an afternoon, and provides enough grains of thought for the mind to grind  on for days more.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R13HXG4540EF97	0345385764	595177711	The Night Manager	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Something is missing . . .	I am bond to read everything that Le Carre writes because he has so often in the past created fiction that satisfied both because of the beauty of the language and the pleasure of the story. Here, alas, while the language  still has that complex, deliberately affected style that seems so  appropriate to Britans of a certain class, the story has little to offer.  One doesn't care about the characters and therefore one doesn't care what  happens to them. Not much at that.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R1KRXMXX0U0ZKX	0312155239	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	One of the most satisfying books I ever reas	Being a long term fan of Cornwell's Richard Sharpe series didn't prepare me for how much I would enjoy the Warlord Trilogy - of which this is the second book. The main character, Derfel Cadarn, is a masterful achievement.  This retelling of the 'King' Arthur story as gritty, though imagined  'history' rather than fairytale legend, creates a stunning human saga as  gripping and emotionally satisfying as any piece of fiction I have ever  read. Cornwell's use of language is superb and each sentence is so well  crafted that I was tempted to read the book out loud. I loved the story,  the characters, the sturcture of the book, the irony gained by having the  book narrated by Derfel in his old age - as an unbelieving priest who is  pretending to be writing a translation of the gospels while actually  writing Arthur's story as an entertainment for the young queen.<br />This is a  fabulous book - as are the other two. Cornwell obviously just gets better  and better. If you haven't read any of his many books, this is a great  place to start. I highy recommend it.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R57DHQPMJSZUT	0446360465	497664964	The End of the Hunt (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The 'Big Fella' is an unforgettable portrait	This is a part of Irish history that most Americans, including many Irish-Americans, don't know well if at all. Thomas Flanagan's story of Irish independence, centering on the figure of Michael Collins (the Big  Fella)is a story of historical significance and personal tragedy. While  this is not a full rounded history of the time, since it focuses on Collins  and ignores for the most part the other Irish leaders, it is still a grand  adventure and captures perfectly the tone of time and place. Flanagan is a  writer of significant skill and his handling of character and story - not  to mention his skill with language - make this book a memorable and moving  reading experience.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R28B7BE3EMWDT0	080213372X	418447643	Moloch: Or, This Gentile World	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A writer waiting to happen	While one may see in this book many of the characteristics, themes and incidents of Miller's writing that would one day cause him to be recognized a true original, if not truely great, I doubt that this is a book that  anyone other than a die hard Miller fan would like. It is early stuff for  Miller, who was just learning his own voice as a writer, and lacks the  exuberance and passion of his later work. It probably will find its place  mostly as an item to be studied by Miller scholars but I can't imagine  actually reading it for pleasure when one could turn to the later and much  better books like the 'Tropic' books and Sexus, Nexus and Plexus.<br />Some of  us think that Miller is a great writer, but he had not yet become one when  he wrote this.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R3BYHOSRYS97UL	0345377370	682630645	Spy Who Came in from the Cold	Books	5	40	43	N	N	The definitive Cold War espionage novel	This book defined a genre. From the elegance of the language, to the betrayal and harsh brutality of the plot's finale, this novel set the standard against which all other espionage fiction of the Cold War would be  judged. Whatever the truth of the matter, Le Carre's fiction created a  world which is so real that subsequent spy novels departed from its  parameters at their peril.<br />The story at the heart of The Spy Who Came in  from the Cold implicates all sides in the struggle in a hypocritical  conspiriacy of betrayal and disloyalty. The message seems to be that no  good deed goes unpunished and that things certainly are not what they  seem.<br />A truely great book, with characters one cares for and a deftly  plotted story that both surprises and distresses the reader. The message of  the book is not a pleasant one, but then the reality of Cold War espionage  was not pleasant either.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R2CDUECA0ZHTIL	0848805623	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom	Books	5	78	83	N	N	War as epic poetry	This book stands alone in the history of military memoirs. The book as a literary achievement and the subject of the book as a personal achievement are both unparalleled. What Lawrence did in WWI - unite the Arab tribes in  a common fight against the Turks - was remarkable not only because no one  thought it could be done but also because it was done by a man with no  power or influence beyond what he could inspire by his own presense.  Lawrence, a scholar before the war working as a mapmaker for the British  army, was about as far removed from anyone's ideas of a military hero as  could be. He nevertheless did the impossible and that story, no matter who  tells it, is as fascinating as any that ever came out of warfare.<br />Equally fascinating is the book itself. A blend of truth and evasion,  the book is told in a beautiful lazy style that suggests it had been  thought out with the vast Arabian desert and ancient way of life in mind.  It is helpful to have read another account of Lawrence's life, just to be  sure of what is happening when he chooses to be vague, but the beauty of  the writing and the insight of the keen intelligence from which it springs,  is a great delight to experience.<br />Even more amazing is to realize that  after this monumental book was completed, Lawrence left the complete  manuscript - the only copy - on the London subway and had to recreate it  from scratch using just his notes. This is a remarkable testiment to both  his focus when he needed it, and his tendency to be frequently apart from  the real world. A remarkable man. A remarkable book. Unique and worthy to  be read and enjoyed.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R2LP3FPU5Z4NB1	0060916125	581879090	The True Believer	Books	5	53	58	N	N	A classic that can change the way you see the world	This little book is a remarkable achievement. Written by Eric Hoffer who, at the time, was a dock worker with no formal education, it is one of the best treatments of the nature and effects of ideological fanaticism ever  produced. The presentation, in short chapters - each demanding to be  thought about carefully - is a synthesis of years of careful reading and  research on Hoffer's part. It is a book that can be read and reread with  each new reading shedding new insight on political and social issues of our  time.<br />That Hoffer went on to become something of an apologist for  reactionary government response to many of the protest movements during the  sixties - including the civil rights movement which he characterized as a  'racket' - should not blind anyone to the value of his first book. Its  insights are still fresh and its wisdom is timeless. He, alas, didn't  always take his own lessons to heart.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R3TX7R7H4RWL0B	0671519816	129533604	Inca Gold (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	1	7	14	N	N	Infantile and silly	I like action books. I am not averse to exaggerated plots and larger than life characters, as long as they are original and interesting, but Cussler has gone from bad to worse in this book where the characters and plot would  be more at home in a comic book aimed at 12 year olds than in a novel for  adults. Obviously Cussler knows something about the deeply unsatisfied  adolescent that many adult males must carry around inside, because his  books are popular with a lot of readers. I really don't get it, though. The  plot is simplistic, the characters are two dimensional and the action is  predictable. This stuff reminds me very much of the action serials that  used to be shown in movie theatres between feature shows. These serials  were composed of 15 minute episodes, each ending with impending doom for  the main character, which, after the fact, he is shown to have easily  avoided through either his own savy or lucky happenstance. The books is  structured in a similar fashion, as though the reader won't realize soon  that none of these crises really matter and that Dirk Pitt always  transcends.<br />Also, these books speak to a lack of attention to language -  both on the part of the author and his audience. No one speaks like this!  How can people read it and not laugh out loud? No matter, the important  point, obviously, is will Dirk Pitt get the treasure. The only difference  from book to book is of what that 'treasure' consists. And, of course he  will. Since we know that from the beginning, the only thing that could  justify reading the book is if the way to the treasure was somehow really  an interesting journey. But it isn't. It is all Warner Bros. back lot stuff  and the joints that hold up the false fronts are always showing - if the  reader is willing to look.<br />For adventure writing, give me Wilber Smith  anyday. At least with him you don't automatically know in advance how (and  what) the hero is going to do.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R15ZZSFEKOI77A	039914496X	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Davenport is losing his edge	While I enjoyed the first few 'Prey' books a lot, I have felt that subsequent books suffered, among other things due to the change in status of Lucas Davenport. When first introduced in the series he was an  iconoclastic cop who read poetry and, occasionally, took the law into his  own hands. As the series has progressed, he has moved up in the police  department hierarchy, become a millionare through his outside software  business and generally lost the hungry edge that made the character work. I  miss that guy and don't much care for the rich and self centered persona  that the books present now. Time for a new hero or a dramatic change of  fortune for Davenport to bring him back to human perspective.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R25NZYL2L8QQMQ	0848805119	111847135	I, Claudius (Hard Cover)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Graves at his best	If there is one book that I can reread with undimished pleasure it is I, Claudius. Graves has taken the scandalous, gossipy view of the Caesars presented by Suetonius and transformed it into a steamy, suspenseful,  violent, hysterical melodrama which nevertheless manages to be thought  provoking and deeply moving. The character of Claudius, the weak, limping,  stuttering 'fool' of a Caesar, is a master portrait and one comes to love  and appreciate his sly insight and his crafty mechanations to preserve his  own life in a palace full of poisonings and treachery. His view of the  other Caesars is insightful and entertaining. The story of Augustus is  almost tragic while that of Tiberius is black comedy. Caligula is a horror  story and Nero is somehow - perhaps because he spells Claudius's doom,  horror itself.<br />This is a very great book both as serious literature and  as simple entertainment - a combination more rare than I would wish.<br />And, if you don't like to read, check out the PBS series available on  videotape. Certainly one of the best things ever on television. Derick  Jacoby, in the defining role of his career, makes a wonderful Claudius and  the rest of he cast, and the script, is supurb. Truely great stuff.	1999-12-06
US	50940744	R3UHUY5VCBA4XU	0374115370	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities: A Novel	Books	3	2	12	N	N	Die, Yuppie scum!	I have been a Tom Wolfe fan for over two decades but continue to think that his real talent is for the essay and not for long fiction. Like Mailer, he seems to be able to string words together with unnerring skill  but has trouble sustaining a tight narrative. Mostly, for me, what kept  this book from coming alive was my dislike for the main characters. I just  didn't care what happened to them. Rather, nothing could be bad enough.  This is pure prejudice on my part, but I can't get past it. I hate these  folks - their lifestyle, their values, their friends, their work, their  entire social world - and I really don't want to read about them. Certainly  not read this many pages. Couldn't he have punctured the hero's little life  in half the number of pages and not left the reader so numb?	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R3B43K2ZFKQVFF	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	2	5	10	N	N	A simple mind	I bought this book originally because it received a great review on NPR. Boy, what were they smoking? I can't remember a more unpleasant reading experience in a long time. There is no one in the book to like. The  characters are simple minded and lacking in any real form of self  awareness. Their behavior is inexplicable and stupid in the extreme. Given  characters that one doesn't care about, the plot becomes irrelevant. One  doesn't care what happens to them. Actually, one is only too painfully  aware of what is going to happen, because these yahoos clearly can't think  beyond the end of their noses.<br />Very disappointing book.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	RJYO8PBXY3UO3	0393317048	452962366	The Yellow Admiral (Vol. Book 18)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	3	5	20	N	N	OK, so it's a mistake to jump in at the end of the series	My mistake. This is the first of Patrick O'Brien's series that I have read. I found it slow and somewhat puzzling. Friends who have read the other books assure me that I should have started with the first and worked  my way up. OK, I'm sorry. But I really think that any series of books, in  order to be truely successful, must be built of volumns that can stand  alone. Certainly any of Bernard Cornwell's Richard Sharpe series contains  enough exposition and general background material that a reader is not  required to have read all the other books in order to enjoy it. I'm not  sure the same is true here. I enjoyed a lot of things about this book, so  will probably go back and try one of he earlier ones, but that is only  because people assure me that they are better.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R3R16VB7E0OXUC	0385313098	903778275	To the White Sea (Delta World War II Library)	Books	2	15	36	N	N	Pretentious nastiness	I don't think I have ever read a book that I found so completely unpleasant as this one. The main character, an airman shot down in a WWII raid over Tokyo, keeps himself alive by one murder after another of the  Japanese civilians he encounters. It is not the act portrayed so much as it  is the way it is presented that I have a problem with. Whatever Dickey  intended the reader to think about this numbing round of killing, I  personally found it - and the 'hero' portrayed in the book - and the author  who wrote the words - objectionable in the extreme.<br />Apart from the  unpleasantness of the story and main character, the language, especially  for a writer who fancies himself a poet, is so bad. Passages alternate  between the flat and the flatulenty overdone. Quite frankly, I found  reading this book a kind of torture, and only endured it because I kept  hoping that Dickey would work some of the same magic he was able to pull  off in Deliverance - an ugly story that could as easily have failed but  didn't.<br />If you hate humanity and/or love deadpan descriptions of violent  death inflicted by strangers or feel the need for some deadly droning  prose, then this is the book for you. Dickey must really have been down on  the human race and his own life when he penned this one.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R2M8HFHRIWN2X3	0452011876	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	48	65	N	N	Amazing how 'objective' one's own prejudices can be	I loved this book when I first read it at age 12. I thought it actually said something important. Then I reread it early in college and, while I still thought it actually said something, I no longer felt it was something  important. Now, I realize that it says nothing and can hardly bring myself  to suffer through the bad dialogue and longwinded speeches that these  cartoon characters make. Come on! Just for example, the speech about  smoking - holding a cigarette is having the fire of Prometheus at one's  finger tips? Now that is rich. Holding the cigarette is having one's  nicotine delivery system at the tip of one's fingers and paying the tobacco  companies a good portion of one's living wage so that they can slowly kill  you. Now that is the real meaning of Ayn Rand's much praised virtue of  selfishness.<br />The 'philosophy' of Objectivism that is supposed to inform  the plot of this book is essentially an oversimplification of Aristotle and  just about 2000 out of date. We can't understand the world we live in nor  our best place in it if we pretend that issues are as two dimensional and  arbitrary as are presented in Ayn Rand's thesis. It just ain't so. The  world is VERY complex and the human psyche equally so. Words - especially  easy categorizations (which Rand loves) - are more likely to distort,  rather than reveal, the truth.<br />Everyone wants certainty. Maybe this  explains the appeal of these books. It can't be artistry. Ayn Rand is not a  master of language, nor a creator of really human characters, nor a great  thinker. But she sure seems sure of what she is sure of. Maybe for most  folks that is enough.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R2SNWG8IVPW7O4	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	5	262	270	N	N	The best historical fiction I have ever read	Nothing prepared me for the complexity, depth and shear sense of reality that Colleen McCullogh's The First Man in Rome provided. I have read a lot of historical fiction and was used to authors routinely ignoring the real  nitty gritty of daily life in previous ages in order to get on with their  story. McCollogh manages to infuse a lively plot with a significant amount  of period lore, domestic detail and even hitorical exposition without ever  losing the reader's interest. Her characters and their story - taken  straight from history - manage to be both larger than life and believably  human at the same time.<br />Among the devices she uses to achieve a kind of  verisimilitude are imagined conversations, letters, and maps (drawn by her  own hand). Where there are unknowns in the historical record, her  inventions are based on careful research and are, if not correct, certainly  plausible.<br />I can't praise this book (and the four that follow it in the  series) highly enough. Standing in the remains of the original forum in  Rome last year, I felt as if I had actually experienced that place before.  So much of the story told in these books takes place in the limited  confines of the forum and the nearby Palitine and Capitoline hills, and her  description of the space was so accurate - even with the passage of two  thousand years - that it was easy to imagine how it must have looked  then.<br />Anyone who loves historical fiction - that is, real history  presented in novel form - owes it to themselves to experience this book. It  is both a work of scholarship and a great imaginative achievement written  by a master of language. No story totally invented could be half as  interesting as this tale of real people that McCollough brings to life in  these pages. A great book.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	RRMKYOWT5GWIT	0446525774	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Absolute - lack of - power	This book's plot revs into high gear when a person who has just performed a B&amp;E for pay witnesses a murder and has to go on the lam from high level government powers who want to kill him to cover up their crime. If  you think this sounds like Baldacci's first big hit, Absolute Power, you  are absolutely right. When writers start having to recycle their own old  plots you can rest assured that there is little of interest left for a  reader. If you have not read Absolute Power, then this book might work for  you. Everything is somewhat predictable but most of us like a certain level  of confirmed expectation in thrillers. But if you want anything fresh or  original, this book is not for you.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R39F3PW35KQEZG	0671753819	896219190	The Last Picture Show	Books	5	35	39	N	N	One of the best of its kind	Larry McMurtry, probably America's most uneven 'great' writer, produced at least one masterpiece of contemporary storytelling, The Last Picture Show. This book is so true to its time and place, so honest in its language and  its character's actions, that one comes to feel that these are real people  that one has known - and maybe loved - for a long time. The story is so  direct and the characters are so simple and ordinary that the emotional  empact of the book comes as some surprise. One doesn't expect that the  stuff of great emotional intensity could be built on such a prosaic  foundation.<br />All of McMurtry's really good books have been turned into  better than average cinema. I think it's a toss up as to whether the movie  or the book is better in this case, but there can be no question that the  book is an American classic and will be read with pleasure (and tears) by  generations.<br />Now, if we could just keep him from bad sequels - like  Texasville . . .	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R1YBUEUNGD2M3B	0394701577	166497014	The Immense Journey: An Imaginative Naturalist Explores the Mysteries of Man and Nature	Books	5	187	190	N	N	One of the best and most visionary writers of our age	I first encountered Loren Eiseley's The Immense Journey by accident in a university's library stacks. I took it down from the shelf and, after glancing at the table of contents, started to read one of the essays. Three hours later I realized that I was still standing in the same place and had  read through almost half the book. I had never encountered writing like  this before. Eiseley writes about nature with the eyes of a haunted poet  who sees the natural world slipping away even as we view it. It is hard to  convey to one who hasn't read any of this just what makes his writing so  special. He is a master of language. His 'take' on what he observes in  nature is original and fresh. The structure of his essays, like arguments  in the form of stories, progressing from some general observation to an  unexpected conclusion - please and surprise the reader.<br />Each of his  essays is, at one and the same time, a lesson, a sermon, a lyrical poem, a  travelogue through time and space, a prayer and a great imaginative leap  beyond human skin, culture, time and place.<br />These essays deserve to have  a much broader audience than they have enjoyed. This is simply some of the  best and most original writing that has been done in our century.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R247CU6WCU8DH6	0385006896	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Elementary it is not	This Sherlock Holmes collection remains an enduring classic that for those who love this take on Victorian England can be read and reread with great pleasure. A good part of that pleasure is the language and the mystique of  the time and place, but most of the pleasure, I suspect, comes from the way  Holmes's mind works. It is especially fun to view that mind through the  stuffy fog of Watson's narration. No matter how hard he tries to figure out  what is going on, Holmes is always several steps ahead of him - and the  reader as well.<br />The most fascinating aspect of these stories is the  strangely modern character that Conan Doyle created in Holmes, a mystery  man with an ill defined past, who plays the violin, possesses an  encyclopedic knowledge of odd minutia that only the FBI labs could fully  appreciate, thinks blindingly fast and always outside the box, is addicted  to drugs and strangely indifferent to sex (as far as Watson knows, anyway).  A far cry from what we have come to expect a detective to be, but SO  entertaining in these very artificial melodramas. These stories are so far  from what any kind of police or detective work have ever been that one  could dismiss them, except then we would miss the fun.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R3BEA4BCPJAVXG	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A surprisingly oringal  and complex book for Follett	The Pillars of the Earth is a surprisingly original and complex book for Ken Follett. Those familiar with his other writings know that his books tend to be much shorter and more formulaic than this one, and, except for  The Eye of the Needle, seldom carry much punch. This sparwling novel with a  several generations cast of characters has as its central figure, not a  person at all, but a building - a gothic cathedral from its inception to  completion with a multitude of interrelated stories forming the book's  plot.<br />I don't know how accurate this book is as history or architecture,  but I know that it is a very satisfying book as fiction. It is original, in  its way, and has the added satisfaction of giving us mulitple stories -  each as self contained as a good short story, but all naturally related to  the overriding story of the building of the cathedral.<br />I have  recommended this book to many people and have discussed it with many others  who had already read it. I have yet to find one who didn't feel that they  had had a wonderfully rewarding reading experience with this book.<br />I  highly recommend it.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R2H0RLPX9N7DY8	0767900766	336167274	The Emperor's General	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The general who wished he were an emperor	In the Emperor's General, James Webb proves that he is as good at bringing real historical figures to life as he is in portraying the harsh life of combat from the eyes of fictional soldiers. The general in question is  Douglas McArthur, great man and great ego, and the emperor is the emperor  of Japan following WWII. McArthur was the military governor for the period  of occupation and the history books tell us mostly that he was loved by the  Japanese and brought them order, a new constitution and rights for women.  What the history books (at least in schools) don't dwell on is the cost of  those reforms and how they were achieved.<br />This book does, among other  themes, concern itself with the settling of blame for the war and  atrocities, the struggle of the emperor and his supporters to protect him  from punishment or embarrassment, and the compromises tha McArthur made in  order to achieve his ends - and his 'place in history'. The most startling  premise of the book is that McArthur allowed the Japanese general who  commaned the last troops to surrender in the Philipines, to become the  scapegoat for the empreror's (and his friends and family's) sins. This  figure, presented as a noble warrior who engaged in no atrocities and  fought against all odds until ordered to surrender by the emperor, is tried  and condemned to death - partly to satisfy McArthur's desire for someone to  punish because of the rape of he Philipines and partly to shift blame from  the emperial household.<br />Whatever one believes about the actual history  involved, the picture drawn of McArthur and the other characters, is so  believable and detailed, that one cannot but be moved by the story. The  reader's sympathies are, at book's end, with the Japanese general and not  with McArthur.<br />This is only scratching the surface of this book. There is  much more to it. It is a full and rich experience that touches on many  themes. It is a thought provoking novel that tells a complex story of  interesting characters - some real and some fictional. Very enjoyable. I  highly recommend it.ry of  interesting characters - some real and some fictional. Very enjoyable. I  highly recommend it.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	RFB3B630Y60Z5	0684811073	646280776	Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Interesting saga poorly told	After finishing this book I felt almost like I had been on the expidition. I was tired, depressed and happy to be back. This book could have been many things, but mostly it is a prosaic account of the Lewis and CLark  expedition that casts little illumination on the people and actions  involved. I never found myself fully engaged in the story and never really  got a feel for what it actually meant. Jefferson looms in the background  but functions mostly as a bookend to the journey itself.<br />I think I  expected more perspective, and certainly more flair in the writing. In  truth, I found myself nodding off frequently while reading this - not a  good sign when one is reading about one of the great adventures of the 18th  century.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	RR21TFKCXF2HT	080326738X	114506172	The Invisible Pyramid	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Humanity as slime mold / very bleak Eiseley	This book differs from most of Eiseley's other writing in that it seems to be more pessimistic and resigned. The dominant image presented in the book's essays - and not one most people would sympathize with - is that  human society is like a slime mold colony. That is, from an original spore  the colony grows and grows in complexity until it spews out new spores to  be carried by the wind and start other colonies far away - as the parent  colony dies, having put all its life into sending out the fresh  spore.<br />Eiseley took this veiw of man as the U.S. was moving into the  early days of the exploration of space. It is an interesting analogy,  suggesting that as life expands outward from our world the life that  sustained the outward thrust will perish. Maybe so, but these essays simply  don't convince or please in the way that his previous books of natural  writing did. The gloom is too overriding and there is no sense of nature  triumphant.<br />While Eiseley was always a man of bleak vision, that vision  was always before filtered through a kind of verbal and mental artistry  that is not shown here. Even someone as pessimistic as myself prefers to be  offered some hope of redemption for the human race. At this point in his  life, Eiseley didn't seem to see any.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	R3JZPW3QLUK2I2	0385424728	233513923	The Chamber	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Thought provoking but not satisfying	While this book does make one think, it isn't really good fiction. The characters never achieve much more depth than they start the book with and the plot doesn't take the reader to any conclusion that feels complete. The  book has the feel of a piece of true crime writing about a lackluster case.<br />If John Grisham is really a writer of 'popular' fiction he certainly  missed his audience with this one.	1999-12-03
US	50940744	RPZY7N56UEEE1	0029021901	593594039	The Birth and Death of Meaning: An Interdisciplinary Perspective on the Problem of Man	Books	4	46	50	N	N	A brilliant intellectual quest	In each of his books, Ernest Becker presents his most current view of what human life (and our experience of it) 'really means'. His intellectual life was a constant quest for some  theoretical framework that would explain  human experience/behavior in a satisfactory way. Each book seems to say,  &quot;We'll, I didn't quite have it right before, but now I really know  what it is all about.&quot; Reading his books in order is a grand journey  of mind and spirit. I never felt that he fully succeeded in his quest, but  each book - and this in particular for me because it was the first of his I  read - forces the reader to come to terms with aspects of life that we  usually avoid thinking about - either because they are too difficult or  because we have supressed any awareness of them.<br />If the unexamined life  is not worth living, this book, and all of Becker's output, should become  tools to assist in the examination we need to make if life is to be  meaninful.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	R16YZBZIYI0QLI	0679762051	963527230	My Dark Places	Books	4	30	33	N	N	In case you ever wondered how he got that way	James Ellroy's unique voice in contemporary crime fiction springs from events in his own life which are the basis for My Dark Places. This book reveals a tortured early life overshadowed by the murder of Ellroy's mother  and subsequent contact with police along with an adolescent descent into  petty crime and drug use. That the person portrayed in these pages manages  to sublimate his demons and channel them into some of the best noir fiction  ever written, is a remarkable human achievement. Those who love Ellroy's  books should read this memoir for the insight into the man it provides and,  also, for the pleasure of reading a real life version of what could easily  be a typical Ellroy subplot to an L.A. mystery.<br />Really interesting  stuff. Read this and you will know why Ellroy seems stuck in L.A. in  another age - and why he can make it come to life with such power.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	R51CU6OURCT1T	0449000885	810767101	White Jazz: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	If you can stay on it's quite a ride	This is a great, almost experimental, work of noir fiction. Like Ellroy's other great books in the L.A. series, the protagonists are all either good/bad guys or bad/good guys. No one is simple and nothing is  straightforward, but if you can hold out and get into the spirit of the  prose - which is no mean feat - the story becomes a rollercoaster of driven  excitement. Ellroy always experiments with language and stylistic devices  in setting his story properly in time and place, but this book is somewhat  extreme in that regard and reading it requires some attention and a  willingness to surrender to the language.<br />The pace of this book, both in  terms of stylistic intensity and in densley plotted action, is more hurried  and frenetic than previous Ellroy novels. The territory and characters,  though, should be familiar to anyone who has read The Black Daliah or L.A.  Confidential. This is some great writing for all those who like their crime  fiction on the gritty and harsh side of truth.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	ROA1TZ3YBS64V	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	127	135	N	N	Someone has to tell the truth	This is probably as significant a book as has been published in the 20th century. Not because it changed the course of history or influenced a huge number of people. It did neither of these things. The history it deals with  was already long passed and its size and severity kept it from being read  by a mass audience. Still, it is significant because it tells a story that  otherwise could not have been told. The full extent of what happened during  the half century of Soviet rule to millions of Soviet citizens is the focus  of this book and Solzhenitsyn's narrative, often numbing in the regularity  of repeated cycles of arrests, 'trials', and imprisonment, seems to be his  effort at repaying those who perished - at insuring that they are  remembered and that those who subjected them to lives of torture are  remembered for what they did.<br />Solzhenitsyn is a true hero of the 20th  century. A military officer of the Soviet Union during WWII, he was  imprisoned for writing a letter that included a joke about Stalin. During  his time in prison he met numerous others who had been in different camps -  different places and different types - and started piecing together in his  mind the full scale of the vast Gulag enterprise which eventually consumed  more of his contrymen than the total count of those of all countries who  died in WWII. That the size and scope of this mass internment was kept  virtually a secret to most of the world (and to most Russians)for so long  is only part of the horror to which Solzhenitzyn is responding.<br />From his  first book, A Day In The Life of Ivan Denisovitch, a small volumn about a  single day in the life of a typical Gulag prisoner - smuggled out of Russia  and published in the West - he has devoted his life to various tellings of  his country's recent history. Most of it to do with the Gulag. This isn't  pleasant stuff. It isn't tight fiction like Darkness At Noon. This is the  real stuff with no prettifying. He feels that someone had to tell the  truth. We owe it to him to listen.had to tell the  truth. We owe it to him to listen.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	R22B60W4UF1GRI	0394495179	152594585	The Civil War, 3-Volume Box Set	Books	5	43	48	N	N	A long, hard trip, but worth it	This trilogy represents something unique in Civil War writing - it is neither a simple history nor a piece of fiction. Rather, it is, as titled, a 'narrative history', in that it attempts to take the huge amount of  historical detail, vast cast of characters and broad scope of space and  time that comprise the American Civil War and turn that mass of disparate  particulars into a compelling story. This is not always successful,  especially when multiple events were occuring simulaneously and must be  related in different chapters, but on the whole this trilogy did more for  me than anything else I have ever read in terms of making the Civil War a  comprehensible series of interrelated actions and reactions.<br />Be careful,  though. You are looking at almost 2000 pages, and if you let Shelby Foote's  voice get into your head as I did, it will take you a LOT longer to read it  - though it may be a more interesting experience for all that.<br />This is  one of those pieces of writing that deserves to be read and reread. It will  be a permanant part of my library.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	R3UX9URJO4VZ74	0882210033	717853810	The Three Faces of Revolution	Books	1	9	28	N	N	Get a real life - not three phoney ones	This book is an interesting document about its time and place - Boston in the 50's - but in no sense can it be seen as a justification for the excesses of McCarthy or J. Edgar Hoover. The activity of the Communist  Party that Philbrick reports were true enough and there is no question that  many in the party sacrificed everything to the cause - including their  income and all their free time and energy. But the same is going on today  with numerous religious cults and crackpot militia outfits, and has gone on  for as long as history records. In every age there are those willing to  sacrifice all for some single - often secret and seditious - purpose. The  important thing to keep in mind is that they are usually few and far  between and society as a whole has little to fear from them. This is not to  say that such groups are never dangerous, only that they are no cause for  society to panic and start rescinding civil liberties and infringing on the  rights of other citizens who are lawfully minding their own business.<br />The  real eye opener for me in reading this book is the extent to which the FBI  was willing to use a citizen to obtain information, regardless of the cost  to that person, and the willingness of 'Comrad' Herb to allow himself to be  used - at what cost to his wife and family he never fully reports. That  someone was willing for years to live a secret life (secret even from his  wife!) to help the FBI prosecute a group of deluded political extremists is  a pretty sad statement of misplaced family values.<br />Of course, it is  important to note that his years as (1) average citizen, (2) communist  party member and (3) counterspy for the FBI, allowed him afterwards to have  a decades long career promoting his book, making speeches and appearing  before various anticommunist groups. So maybe it was all worth it to him.	1999-12-02
US	50940744	R2PHB48FKWULHV	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	3	8	14	N	N	A very long book about garbage	I have read a number of Don Delillo's books, primarily because people keep telling me he is a great writer and I feel an obligation occasionally to read something 'great'. However, while enjoying parts of his other novels,  especially Libra, they at least had the advantage of being relatively  short. The pain was not prolonged. This book is huge. I kept expecting to  figure out what it was about, but after 400 pages I became reconciled to an  ever growing thought - this was just a very long book about garbage.  Seriously, it is a book about garbage - landfills and other aspects of  trash generating America. One can make much of this, but I didn't feel that  Delillo really took advantage of the thematic possibilites. As is true of  many contemporary 'serious' writers, he seems to be careful never to be too  clear, as if ambiguity were a literary value to always strive for.<br />The  characters, plot and ultimate point of this ponderous book are all only  dimly realized. Delillo has the talent to craft wonderful passages, but  they exist in isolation and don't flow together to make a satisfying book.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R3H7QYCNR2AILM	0385491735	731057622	Truman Capote: In Which Various Friends, Enemies, Acquaintances and Detractors Recall His Turbulent Career	Books	4	35	38	N	N	A book even Capote would love	Being a man as into self advertisement as Truman Capote was, this is a book that he would truely love. Even though not everything said about him is positive, the very fact that so many prominant people had opinions about  and feelings for this strange Southern refugee would probably warm his  heart. I have tried without success to appreciate Capote as a writer. With  the exception of In Cold Blood, which is less personal and more accessable  than his other fiction, I just don't get it. But Capote the personality,  now that is different. Those of us who watched his decline over the years  on one TV show after another, to the point where his interviews were  incoherent babble, have a guilty fascination with this man. And of course  the 'mystery' of the missing final project - the greatest fiction of his  life - just adds to the sadness of the story.<br />If you are interested in  Capote at all - as writer or as personality - this book is a great source  of insight, anecdote and interesting detail.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R1K4AR38JALDIU	0553379356	328378329	Jackson: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A life that reads like fiction	This is a much more satisfying book than Byrd's previous book, Jefferson, and part of the reason is that Andrew Jackson the man was more complex, contradictory, extroverted, extreme and unpredictable than his near  contemporary. Jackson's life has provided material for a lot of historical  fiction, but none that I have read approach the subject in such a detailed  and interesting way. His life is laid before the reader piece by piece,  like a puzzle. The narrator, a man hired to write a campaign  biography,  must learn about Jackson by interviewing his friends and enemies and  engages in an investigation to find the truth about certain Jackson myths  that fully involves the reader's attention. Better than a detective story  and more satisfying than a head on biography, this book captures the spirit  Jackson's times and leaves one with the sense of having experienced a real  piece of history.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R3TQL76PF7N4S8	0140260897	630529008	Palimpsest: A Memoir	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Life as a love/hate relationship	The theme that seems to be clear in this memoir is that Vidal has a love/hate relationship with America, with the writing profession and with many of the human figures in his own life. This creates a complex reading  experience where no story is told straight on and everything has a subtext.  I loved this book because I love Vidal's historical fiction and his  critical essays and comentaries. What I couldn't relate to in the book were  those elements it has in common with some of his more imaginative (and in  my mind less satisfying) fiction - a kind of gay over-the-top and  in-your-face exaggeration that tries to make the ordinary world seem more  horrible than it is because it isn't sufficiently 'interesting'. But then,  that is Vidal, and the exaggeration and, yes, the hostility, is part of  what makes his opinions always fresh and memorable - even when one thinks  they are wrong.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R1M5WXQZFMF4Q	0375501371	685444613	A Widow for One Year: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Irving still knows how to push those emotional buttons	After reading The World According to Garp, one of my favorite books of all time, I read all of Irving's prior work. By the time I had finished I felt that I had heard enough about bears, wrestling and infidelity to last a  lifetime, so haven't been inclined to read another of his books until  recently opening A Widow For One Year. I have to say, he still has the  talent for making the bizarre seem believable and for tugging at a range of  emotions - frequently all at once, so that one doesn't know whether to  laugh or cry. For anyone who likes the Irving formula, this should be a  truely satisfying book. I enjoyed it much more than I expected to - even  when I realized that my emotions were being manipulated.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R2F4ERFMDHATME	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A wise and well written trip into little known history	In Cloudsplitter, Russell Banks once again proves that he is a master storyteller who is not destined to repeat himself, as so many major writers do. This book deals with a period of American history that is not well  known to the average person and with a figure who has always been more myth  than man. Told through the words of John Brown's son Owen, the picture of  Brown's life that is presented in the novel is a moving Old Testament size  tragedy, with the 'hero' - a flawed and fanatical man - doing harm in the  name of doing good. It is a very engrossing tale, moving and intellectually  stimulating. It makes one feel - and think about those feelings.<br />A very  satisfying book.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R3TN8IZLQ6Z05A	0385488432	933000105	Heartwood	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Can't relate to a 'hero' named Billy Bob	I have been a big James Lee Burke fan for years, but after reading the first two books in this new series I have to say that I am really disappointed. What we have in this book is all the stiffness and aloofness  of Dave R but none of the charm or local color of those Louisiana stories.  This is an ugly location, an ugly story, and ugly characters to  boot.<br />Besides, I just can't relate to a 'hero' named Billy Bob.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R39620D9Z9FI22	0399145087	636904914	Black Notice (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Scarpetta needs a shrink	While better than the last couple of Scarpetta novels, Black Notice does not get near the excitement and interest of the first couple of novels in the series. This character has gotten so strained, shrewish and neurotic  that it is hard to identify with her feelings. I'm finding myself rooting  for the bad guys - wishing both the good doctor and her selfish, obnoxious  niece would get bumped off so Cornwell could get on to something more  interesing.<br />Also, while we understand that there are personal reasons why  the FBI doesn't play a prominant place in her books anymore, am I the only  one who feels that ATF is a step down?	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R20X7LH0XLSJBR	0385323832	225201186	Cuba Libre	Books	3	1	2	N	N	This one really misses the boat	After reading my first Elmore Leonard book I went in search of everything else he had ever written and have eagerly awaited each new book. Not all of them have satisfied, but enough succeed brilliantly to keep me waiting. Now  this. It not only doesn't satisfy, it misses the boat totally. This is  something of a departure for Leonard, a historical fiction that melds  aspects of his western and crime fiction into a story set against actual  historical events. Unfortunately, he doesn't give us enough of either the  history - which should be really interesting - or his fiction - which in  this case seems flat and unsatisfying. The plot wanders and the conclusion  is not solid and doesn't please in the way that his books frequently do.<br />In sum, this book is lacking in both the humor and the bite that make  his best work a joy to read. I was really let down.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R30K6PE39K5GYD	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	299	313	N	N	Simply one of the best books ever written	I first tried to read War and Peace in High School. A teacher, who had carried the book all through the Pacific campaign in WWII recommended it as a book that had changed his life. I tried three times and couldn't get past  a few hundred pages because of the numerous characters - each with multiple  names. The fourth time I stuck with it and was rewarded with a reading  experience that has seldom been equaled. Since that time I have reread the  book every two or three years, so I must have been through it 15 or more  times, and each time I find things I haven't noticed before.<br />This is such  a grand book in terms of number of characters in all levels of Russian  society, historical scope, period detail, philosophical implications,  romance, drama, tragedy, action etc, etc, etc. There is just no way to  enumerate all that is appealing about Tolstoy's masterpiece. The main  characters are as humanly complex and interesting as real people. I feel  that I know them like friends. The plot(s) are involving and get more tight  and interconnected as the book progresses, so that there is a great  satisfaction as various threads come together, and never with the jarring  coincidences that propel a typical Dickins novel.<br />If I had to pick only  one novel that I would ever be able to read again, it would have to be War  and Peace. There is so much of interest going on in this book that it would  be hard to wear it out in a lifetime.	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R35VOJRA9EWYZH	0140084738	313654234	Sharpe's Waterloo: Richard Sharpe & the Waterloo Campaign, 15 June to 18 June 1815 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #20)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Great battle / Great book	Nobody handles battle scenes better than Bernard Cornwell. His treatment of the Battle of Waterloo does justice to its significance as the final confrontation between the French under Napoleon and the alied European  powers. Those who have not read all the other Richard Sharpe books might  not appreciate the story's context so well, but anyone picking up the book  with no prior experience of Sharpe could still derive immense pleasure from  the complex action - the reversals of fortune in the continuous give and  take between two huge opposing armies.<br />Something that I did miss was a  fuller rounding out of the story of Richard Sharpe himself. Having set up  the Battle of Waterloo to be both a confrontation between European powers  and between Sharpe and his estranged wife's lover, I was hoping for Sharpe  to bring that chapter to a close rather than other forces intervening to do  the job for him. Just not as much fun as having him wield the sord.<br />And  what about the money?	1999-12-01
US	50940744	R181JQJ6C7P4CL	0394589661	512657531	Native Tongue	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Feast of Laughs	This is the first Hiassan book that I ever read and I can remember laughing out loud almost from the first page. The surrealistic plot hardly seems exaggerated at all considering what south Florida has become in the  last few decades. The weird characters and improbable plot somehow become  totally believable in Hiassan's deft hands. Despite the laughs, Hiassan  never loses sight of his more serious purpose - highlighting what crass and  tastless overdevelopment have meant for his state.<br />A great book by a real  American original. I recommend it (and all of Hiassan's books) to anyone  who needs a healthy - and serious - laugh.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R1MR3EGIEBXFH9	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The movie will have to be better	There isn't much I can add to the comments that have been made in the other reviews. I enjoyed the first part of this book - though not as much as Silence of the Lambs or Red Dragon - but like both of those titles,  Harris seems to have had a problem with the ending. Here, unfortunately, he  seems to be writing the ending to a different book than the one the reader  had been involved in. Where this strange and unsatisfying ending came from  is a mystery. Nothing really prepares us for it. Neither Starling nor  Lecter act as we have come to expect them to. I am not against being  surprised, but with no lead in or justification for what happens it is  shocking and my response was to literally throw the book across the  room.<br />Make no mistake, when the film is made of this book it will be a  different story. No one in Holywood wants to spend millions of dollars just  to tick the audience off at the end.<br />Maybe this is Harris's way of  putting an end to this series. I can't imagine may who would want another  dose after this one.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R2KA8QYCG5577D	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	3	3	19	N	N	Derivative and insubstantial	Those who liked this book should read Faulkner's Intruder in the Dust to see where the plot comes from. This is not an original story nor is it very deep. Atticus Finch is a good character but the story made a better vehicle  for Gregory Peck than it does a serious novel.<br />This is one of those  books (like Catcher in the Rye) whose enduring popularity has always been a  puzzle to me. A simple story, simply told. So what? We don't learn anything  from it. And if one wants the real southern experience, stick with Faulkner  or Flannery O'Conner - or even Harry Crews. They are deeper, uglier and  more true than this perennial trifle.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R3TSN518YBBQGZ	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Robinson is the Tolstoy of Sci Fi writers	If Leo Tolstoy was alive and writing science fiction, this is the kind of book he would write. More than just an adventure in space, this novel presents complex, imperfect characters wrestling with questions of  philosphy, politics, morality and conflicting personal ambitions against  the backdrop of setteling a new world. The scope of the story, the level of  detail, the number of characters and the ever shifting focus adds up to a  War And Peace in the 21st century.<br />This is not an easy book or a quick  read. It requires attention and a willingness to let the author unfold the  story in his own way. But it is a richly rewarding experience. While I  liked it more than the following two books in the series, I think the  entire trilogy represents a monumental achievement. As a shear feat of  imagination based on the known possibilities, it is like no other science  fiction that I have read. Those readers that fault Robinson for not writing  something like Young Christian Republicans Go to Mars are overlooking the  obvious - that a fresh start will necessarily mean a lot of conflict  (social, political and economic) until some compromise between conflicting  priorities can be established. Robinson does not offer any easy solutions  to these problems, and the socialistic elements that are introduced into  the Martian system have little to do with old terran forms of central  planning and control.<br />This is a thoughtful book full of action. Much of  the action is mundane; people moving from place to place or building  things. Yet it is always fascinating, because the trips are through  unfamiliar landscapes and the building is constrained by the hostile  atmosphere and limited gravity. Reading these books is almost like a  physical experience. I even found myself dreaming the landscape.<br />Like  War and Peace, I suspect this is a book I will have to revisit in order to  discover what I missed the first time. It's worth it.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R2XTSHH91MJOLD	0942637348	730015076	The Brave	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I couldn't get this out of my head	I am not a fan of Gregory McDonald's lighter fiction. I always thought it was trivial and not entertaining enough to bother with. This book, however, touched such a nerve that I couldn't stop thinking about it for weeks after  I read it. It is a HARD book, in the sense that the feelings it evokes are  deep and visceral. I found that I wanted to put the book down frequently,  just as when watching something terrible about to happen to an unsuspecting  victim one might want to avert the eyes to avoid seeing the ugliness that  is sure to come.<br />This is a powerful and heartfelt book. I can only  speculate at what would make an author whose fiction is usually fluff  attempt a book with such a potent and tragic theme, but he has carried it  out with great skill. No one who reads this can come away unscathed.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R1RLDOUWB16KJ4	038080896X	752277523	Killer on the Road	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not up to Ellroy's best	This early serial killer book has some intriguing aspects but is lacking when it comes to plot and scenic structure. It sort of plods along and the somewhat interesting main character isn't enought to sustain a reader's  enthusiasm. There isn't much tension in the plot. Everything seems somewhat  predictable and the outcome inevitable.<br />Mostly, fans of Ellroy's L.A.  series will miss the manic pace, the full cast of characters and the  complexity of scene and mood. This book is too much of a piece. Limited and  ultimately hollow.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R3IGWFVJF0YUN5	0345425480	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A style as stiff as the book' protagonists	This is a book about a fascinating subject and it works because the story is so compelling. The book itself is ponderous and written in a style that is as stiff and unbending as the book's main protagonists seem to have been  in real life. The cobbling together of sentence fragments and the peculiar  punctuation would drive an English teacher to despair.<br />Nevertheless, I  have to say that I enjoyed the book. I never get tired of retellings of  this story. There is some interesting detail and the overall history seems  to be accurate, though compressed and oversimplified in some places.<br />The  one thing that I felt this book really lacked - and this is true of the  other two books in the series - is a better picture of the war from the  private soldier's view. Lee and Grant are figures of mythic stature in a  tail of great tragedy and drama, but the story really belongs to the men in  blue and gray who stood in the lines and fell by the thousands.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R2R8SBMBSJCQX8	081251050X	367960714	Kahawa	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Best Westlake ever	This book is a total departure for Donald Westlake and one for the better. While the plot deals with the theft of a train load of coffee, the book is so far beyond an average hiest story that it is hard to catagorize. The  setting, the characters - even the steamy sex scenes - are more than one  expects after reading Westlake's other books. This is, in many ways, a  serious novel, but at the same time, very entertaining. I had to read it in  one long session. It was that gripping.	1999-11-30
US	50940744	R1CXKLVE5KTV75	0399145664	105065636	Family Honor	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Everything new is old again	OK, I didn't want to enjoy this book. Though I am a long time fan of Parker's Spencer series, I have even gotten tired of it lately. At least this book has the advantage of saving us from more Susan Silverman  cuteness. But, despite my preconceptions, I found myself falling under the  spell of the familiar dialoge patterns and thinly disguised author's  attitudes, and did, indeed, enjoy this gender bender version of a typical  'Spencer' story. Nothing inventive or new, but the old stuff is still  entertaining enough for a good read.	1999-11-29
