US	50944626	R2K5FRAJK4F8VJ	0399150536	110785101	Fireplay	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Best of the Series!	I haven't read in awhile and I just happened to see Fireplay by Suzanne Chazin and grabbed it because I have read her first two novels.  Frankly, I thought it would be awhile before I read it.  Wrong!  I loved this book.  I'm not going to give a play-by-play description of the plot since that has already been done.  <br />What impressed me most was the emotional aspect of this book.  In the first two books, you learned a lot of information about the technical side of firefighting with mystery and suspense.  In Fireplay, you still get the suspense and mystery, but Ms. Chazin takes us a step closer in understanding the recurring characters.  We see our heroine, Georgia, thrown into a situation way beyond her control, but she never lets up for an instant.  All the major characters find themselves not knowing whom to trust or keeping things from each other.  This adds to the drama.  The ending-well, I never saw it coming.  <br />Fireplay is a great novel.  You can pretty well read this one without the first two.  However, I have to recommend you read those as well.  Ms. Chazin has a great series going on here.  I will be looking for the next novel, even if I don't read anything else in between.	2004-06-21
US	50944626	RX42SQK195SV7	084395048X	315047773	Lair of the Lion	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Only for Very Patient People	I bought this book strictly because of the author, Christine Feehan.  If it hadn't been for a fellow reviewer gleefully wanting to tell me the end of the story, I would have never made it through the book.  The first half of the book moves slowly, the story is very disjointed, puts the heroine in constant danger with things she doesn't understand, and foreshadows things we don't understand and at this point of the book, could probably care less about finding out. <br />     The second half explodes into a fascinating story.  The story begins to come together and you can't help liking the characters and trying to figure out whom the traitor really is.  I wish I could give this book a glowing review, but after struggling through it for two weeks just to get to the second part of the book, I can't.  I will say this, no one can write a sexual scene like Feehan, but even that can't help move the pace of this book along.  Will I buy a second book in this series should Ms. Feehan decide to write one?  Maybe.  I know it takes a lot of creative energy and work to break from a successful mold that Ms. Feehan is known for, but I don't have the patience or will power to go through another book like this one.	2002-09-29
US	50944626	R3S3DDXU9SRKC	0399148507	841781693	Flash Over	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Hurry Up with Book Three!	How I missed Flash Over when it came out is beyond me.  I was fascinated by Suzanne Chazin's first novel, The Fourth Angel, and knew she was working on the next installment.  Yet, I didn't see this book until last week.  Flash Over is just as good as The Fourth Angel, yet it takes a different approach in the lives of Fire Marshall Georgia Skeehan and Mac Marenko.<br />     Georgia and her partner Carter are called in to investigate the fire that killed retired doctor Louise Rosen.  While everyone wants to believe she was drunk and smoking in bed, the clues to the fire don't add up to support this theory.  As Georgia and Carter try to piece together what happened, they begin to hit a brick wall with the upper brass telling them to back off.  Then, Dr. Rosen's former partner dies in a fire.  Things begin to come to light as Georgia finds out both doctors where part of the committee who decides if firemen are entitled to full medical retirement when they become ill and can no longer work.  It seems the two doctors had a history of denying benefits to men who had gave their hearts to their jobs.<br />     Then Georgia finds out someone is planning on blowing up a pipeline that runs under New York.  This is scary when you realize how devastating it could actually be if it were to happen.  The person threatening calls himself Robin Hood.  He feels Georgia inadvertently helped him take out one victim.  He now wants to deal with her and the upper brass, police, and local politicians don't want her around for fear of what she may uncover about the past.  Georgia pieces together enough to know Robin Hood must be connected to the fire department some way.  Things quickly escalate into an action pack finale.<br />     Flash Over written in a different tone from The Fourth Angel.  While there is still well plotted action and graphic descriptions of fires the destruction they leave behind, Ms. Chazin has given up more background information on the recurring characters.  We see how the relationship between Georgia and Mac is going nowhere, how he is unable to commit or even let his fellow workers and family know they are involved.  We also have more of a glimpse of how Georgia has to combat the sexist attitudes directed toward women in a male dominated field. <br />     Flash Over is well written, with tons of action, personal relationships, and a dynamite ending.  I will be making notation to myself to start looking for the third installment around May of 2003	2002-07-01
US	50944626	R3DTC9MYPB0E12	0688174574	695846125	Blindsighted: A Novel (Dr. Sara Linton)	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	An Author with Potential	I love to read and spend way too much money on books monthly.  My personal policy is not to spend money on a hardback by a new writer.  I usually wait for paperback.  Well, occasionally I gamble and break that policy hoping I won't get burnt.   Thank goodness with Blindsighted by Karin Slaughter I didn't get burnt and now I have a promising author to add to my list of must read.<br />     The first thing I found fascinating about Blindsighted was the realization the entire book was going to take place within a week.  Secondly I loved the characters of Sara Linton, a pediatrician and part-time coroner, and her ex-husband Police Chief Jeffrey Tolliver.  This is a couple who still belong together but can't seem to work through mistakes in their past.<BR>  <BR>     A vicious rape takes place resulting in the death of Sibyl Adams, a local college professor who happens to be blind.  Add to the suspense is she is the sister of Lena Adams, one of Jeffrey's detectives.  The rapist carved a cross across her stomach.  Then a college girl goes missing.  When found, another religious symbolism is apparent.  Who is committing these horrendous crimes and why is he targeting the small town of Heartsdale, Georgia?<br />     Blindsighted is well written, fast-paced, with plenty of action and character development.  For me, the descriptions of the assaults were too graphic, but it hit home how gruesome these crimes were.  Probably the only complaint I had was it was a little too apparent who the bad guy was going to be.  It's my understanding there will be another book featuring these lead characters.  Well, put me on the list as someone who will be out there buying the next one by Karin Slaughter.	2002-07-01
US	50944626	R3JDHJD4XNP1Y4	0066211220	602976816	Breathing Room: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Breathing Room Leaves Me Breathless!	How do I describe Breathing Room by Susan Elizabeth Phillips?  Well, let's see-it's sexy, romantic, naughty, has characters I adored, fabulous secondary characters, great dialogue, and takes place in an exotic location.  Let me ask you, as a romance reader, what more can you ask for?<br />     Dr. Isabel Favor has it all.  She's a self-help guru who can do no wrong, or so she thinks.  Then she is attacked in the tabloids by a disgruntled ex-employee, she finds out the IRA is after her for unpaid taxes, her accountant who was supposed to take care of the taxes has skipped the country with all her money, and her fiancé has gotten another woman pregnant.  All this happens within a space 24 hours to a woman who is supposed to have all the answers.<br />     Lorenzo Gage is a drop dead bad boy.  He makes his living playing the most horrendous villains in movies.  His attitude is he can do whatever, whenever, with whomever he wants when he wants.  Life is good until a former girlfriend, who just happens to be America's favorite actress, dies and the blames lands in his lap.<br />     Two people on top of the world find themselves hiding out in Italy waiting for the bad press to die down.  However, they end up finding more when they discover each other.  Breathing Room is a fantastic read.  Lorenzo, or Ren as he is called, is that bad boy every woman wants to tame.  He has it all, looks, money, talent, and loads of sex appeal.  Isabel is the self-contained character that needs to learn to live life.  Put them together and you have a wonderful story.  Ms. Phillips outdid herself in Breathing Room.  This is one of those books that will go on my keepers' shelf and will be read over and over.	2002-06-07
US	50944626	R5KV1LXL3JWC6	0553802518	943340840	The Survivors Club	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Get Ready to be Entertained!	When I read, I read strictly for entertainment.  I want to be drawn into the plot and entertained by the characters.  Lisa Gardner didn't draw me into the plot of The Survivors Club-she yanked me into it head first!  From page one to the end, the suspense never lets up.  I didn't think Ms. Gardner could top her last book, boy was I wrong. <br />     The story opens with two men trying to plot the perfect brutal assault crimes without getting caught.  They discuss theories and discard methods that haven't worked.  Let me tell you it's unnerving to read something discussed so casually.  Cut to the courthouse where a man is set to go on trial for brutally assaulting and raping three women and one who didn't survive the nightmare.  Up on the rooftop lies an assassin waiting for the perfect shot to take the man out.  The moment arrives, he fires, escapes to his awaiting car only blocks away.  He starts the engine, boom-his car explodes.  Meanwhile back on the job for his first day after an eighteen-month medical leave is a state policeman.  He had witnessed the agonizing death of his wife while taking down the man known as the \\"Candy Man\\", a pedophile who killed ten small children and just happened to be the his next door neighbor.  Thrown into the mix is three women who form the Survivors Club to deal with the trauma they have each went through.  Three women, who come from different walks in life, with nothing in common other than they have survived every woman's worst nightmare.  This is pretty intense stuff especially when you consider it's just the first three chapters of the book.  But hey, Ms. Gardner doesn't let up there, chapter after chapter throws new curves that keeps this story as fresh and compelling as the first three chapters.<br />     This book was mesmerizing.  I'm sure there will be those out there who will criticize the fact that there was no romance in the book, or those who will think Ms. Gardner strayed into the unbelievable area on DNA and policeprocedures.  But for someone who reads strictly for entertainment, this book has it all.  Grab a copy and settle down for a fascinating journey with The Survivors Club.  You won't be sorry.	2002-05-26
US	50944626	RCXK1EXKJMF2D	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dark Series Just Gets Better	It amazes me how Christine Feehan has created a race of people called the Carpathians, developed several books about the different characters in this race, and still manages for each book to be refreshing, sexy, and suspenseful.  Where does this woman get her inspiration for her leading men?<br />     Dark Guardian is Lucian's story.  He is the most powerful, elite warrior of the Carpathians.  In fact he is the guardian of his race.  Now he has met the woman who can change his existence.  She can give him back his emotions, sense of color, and ability to love.  She is Jaxon Montgomery, a police officer who has spent her life trying to survive the destruction of her childhood, the death of not only her family, but her adopted family, on the constant lookout for the man who will kill anyone who gets too close to her-her stepfather.  <br />     Lucian, in order to protect Jaxon, makes her into a Carpathian.  He takes away her ability to be in the sun, take nourishment from foods.  She must now exist on blood like him, but in return gains powers she never knew existed.  Together they learn to coexist while taking care of the bad guys.<br />     This is a pretty neat story and like all of Feehan's books, almost impossible to review because you just have to read them to get all the details.  Ms. Feehan writes one of the most complex series in paranormal romance.  If you haven't tried one of her books, grab one and I really feel you'll be searching for all of them.  Ms. Feehan has it all in her books--paranormal, excitement, sex, suspense, gorgeous leading men-everything.	2002-05-17
US	50944626	RHJ4IH751SF64	0515133418	207784772	Summer in Eclipse Bay	Books	4	2	3	N	N	JAK Can Still Turn Them Out	JAK is back with her third installment of the Eclipse Bay series.  Summer in Eclipse Bay is pure JAK.  She has thrown together a wonderful hero and heroine, assorted cast of returning eccentric characters, a little mystery, and fabulous dialogue. <br />     Nick Harte is returning to Eclipse Bay with his son Carson to spend the summer.  Nick is from an elite family who gave up a successful career in the family business to become a writer.  His wife has died and left him with a precocious son, Carson, to raise.  Nick has his eye on Octavia Brightwell, the owner of a local art gallery.  He has asked her out plenty of times, but Octavia keeps turning him down.  It has gotten so bad that Carson is afraid his dad will ruin his chance of having his picture displayed in a children's art show Octavia is sponsoring.<br />     Octavia is a smart woman.  After all, she has turned Nick down six times.  She knows the stories about Nick.  How he has \\"the talk\\" with each woman before he starts an affair, telling each up front it will never be more than an affair. and how he never spends the night with a woman.  Octavia also has a hidden agenda for being in Eclipse Bay.  She is going to right a wrong that started the Harte-Madison feud years before.  Now it seems even more important since Nick is part of that family and has also just seen his two sisters (previous Eclipse books) marry into the Madison family.<br />     Now, you have two wonderful characters, a precocious child, the mystery of stolen art work, snappy dialogue, and-well, let's just say sit back and enjoys an entertaining read.  JAK has reverted back to the formula that made her earlier books so successful.  I for one am glad.	2002-05-17
US	50944626	R247Y3YZFKGBU1	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	97	101	N	Y	You Have Got  to Love Sookie!	I normally expect my heroines to be tough, women who can coolly assess a situation then kick butt.  What I got in Living Dead in Dallas by Charlaine Harris, is a heroine who is kind of kooky, reads minds, dates a vampire, and isn't afraid to yell for help when she's in a situation way over her head.  While this sounds like a turn off from what I normally expect, believe me, it isn't.  There is no way not to like cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse.  She's got a figure to kill for, the uncanny ability to read minds, doesn't care about conventional society, and is pretty content with her life until she is reminded she is on loan out to help the vampires. <br />     It seems that Sookie and her vampire boyfriend Bill have agreed for Sookie to help the vampires when they need help.  The leader of the local nest of vampires, Eric is sending Sookie to Dallas to look for a missing vampire.  For those of you who have read the first book in this series, take heart, the gorgeous Eric plays a larger role.  Now take a backwater gal out of her little hometown and send her by plane to Dallas with her boyfriend traveling in a coffin and see what happens!  Sookie ends up way over her head dealing with vampires, werewolves, and fanatics who want to end the existence of all supernatural beings.  There is also a subplot with Sookie dealing with the death of one of her friends who just happened to be a member of a sex club.  Use your imagination and you can pretty well guess what happens with this plot!<br />Charlaine Harris has taken Sookie to another level.  While she is still the ditsy waitress we were first introduced to in Dead Until Dark, she has managed to develop into a likeable heroine, who while still unconventional, captivates our attention and makes us root for her throughout the book.  Like everyone else, I can't wait until the next book to see what new mess Sookie manages to get into.	2002-04-08
US	50944626	RJID0NXA4RAKB	0312979851	394391460	True North	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Comical Look at a Workaholic!	I didn't have high expectations when I started this book.  I thought it would be a light, comical romance that had no real substance.  It is a light, comical romance, but I have to say I did like the story and the characters.  Beverly Brandt has written an engaging story that will keep her readers entertained.<br />     Claire Brown doesn't have any trouble finding a man, but she sure has trouble keeping them.  She sees her fiancé drifting away from her due to her long working hours.  Determine to mend the distance between them, she gives him a knock out, romantic vacation for his birthday at an exclusive resort in Colorado.  As any workaholic, Claire packs for the vacation with new clothes, her cell phone, and her reliable laptop.<br />     Claire should have recognized things were not going to be perfect when she arrives at the airport, but can't find her fiancé.  She attempts to board the plane thinking he is already seated only to find out someone cancelled her first class reservation.  She grabs the only available seat in coach and finds herself seated next to the child from hell.  After take off she goes to first class and finds her fiancé seated next to a bimbo and in the process manages to disgrace herself by falling into their breakfast.  Any other woman might have picked up that something was going on, but not Claire.  Even missing luggage and missing the resort van doesn't clue her in that something is amiss.  Nothing does until she goes to their room and finds Ms. Bimbo installed in her place.  Unable to get her room or her money back, Claire ends up staying in a small room in the employees' section.  Chaos erupts as Claire sets out for revenge, her first vacation in years, and tries to stay in touch with her job and its unexpected developments. <br />     John McBride is a former FBI agent who got rid of his workaholic wife and lifestyle.  Things are going pretty smooth in his life until Claire Brown shows up and his mother who is exactly the same.Now he finds himself coping with a criminal just released from prison, a guest who is out for revenge and with whom he finds himself attracted to, and a mother who doesn't know what to do with her life.<br />     Put it all together and you have a romantic comedy with likeable characters.  I thought this was a fun book with a story line that moved fast.  I've never read anything by Ms. Brandt before, but I will keep my eye out for her next book.	2002-02-04
US	50944626	R1YCSY0Y7FPTSZ	0425183017	196239644	The Spiral Path	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beautiful Story	Every once in a while you come across a book that reaches out and grabs you for all it's worth.  You find yourself so enthralled with the story that you literally panic when you realize you are almost finished with the book because you honestly do not want the story to end.  That's how I felt about The Spiral Path by Mary Jo Putney.<br />     Kenzie Scott is a British actor who is burning up the screens in America.  He sees an independent film with a little known actress, Raine Marlowe, who is up for an academy award for her performance.  Kenzie is enamored with her.  He manipulates his next contract to the point where Raine must play the lead female role before he will sign on to star in the production.  They work together, keeping everything professional until the end of the production, then the sparks fly.  Rather then allow the relationship to end within the two weeks they have between films, they elope.  Unfortunately, neither of them knows how to make a relationship work.  Fast forward four years and they find themselves in the middle of a \\"civilized\\" divorce.<br />     Raine is about to direct her first movie based on a screenplay she wrote.  Desperate for financial backing, she approaches Kenzie to play the lead.  He agrees without looking at the script, which turns out to be a devastating mistake on his part.  Unable to disappoint Raine, Kenzie finds himself having to face a past he wants no one to know about and confronting demons he thought he had buried.  As if things aren't hard enough, Raine finds herself having to play the lead after another actress drops out of the film opposite of Kenzie.  Things begin to heat up as they give into the sexual attraction between them and as they watch everything unravel when a tabloid reporter tenaciously searches to find the lurid details of Kenzie's missing past.<br />This book had every element you could ask for from a contemporary romance.  The lead characters come to life as their story unfolds.  The dialogue iswell written and the plot believable.  As I said at the beginning, I did not want the story to end.  This is one book that will stay on my keeper's shelf and undoubtedly be read over and over.  Mary Jo Putney has written one of the best books I've read in a while.  I'll definitely be looking forward to her next contemporary.	2002-02-04
US	50944626	R6PZUTR1FDHPQ	0440237149	759067388	Heaven on Earth	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Relaxing Read	It must be the story of my life in land in the middle of a series.  I haven't read Marilyn Pappano in a while, can't really tell you why because I generally like her books.  Apparently she has a new series going on about a small town called Bethlehem and its residents.  As usual, I've gotten in on the latest book in the series without reading the first four.  But that's ok because you don't have to read them to figure out what's going on, but if you're like me, you'll want to so you can find out the past stories of the residents.<br />     Heaven on Earth gives us Melinda Dimitris, a private investigator, a dynamite looker who isn't afraid to go after what she wants.  Recreational sex seems to be fine with her until she meets Sebastian Knight.  Now she wants the whole nine yards only to have him dump her after a one-week stand.  It seems Sebastian's wife left him some years earlier with nothing but an empty house, empty checking account, and small daughter.  He's afraid of getting involved with anyone and then being left with his heart in pieces.  The two might have never seen each other again, but for one fateful incident.  Three of the town's children have run off searching for their mothers who abandon them.  One is Sebastian's daughter.  Melina is hired to find the children and finds Sebastian permanently attached to her side as she does it.<br />    I liked this story.  It has a \\"feel good\\" quality to it.  You know when you start the book how it is going to end since it's a romance, but it is still entertaining.  While some might find a book with children off putting, I like the charm they brought to the book.  Heaven on Earth is a fun, relaxing book.	2002-02-04
US	50944626	RT08ZY5TIJJCJ	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	And the story continues...	I got hooked on Christine Feeham last fall and have been fascinated by her \\"Dark\\" series every since.  If you haven't read anything by Ms. Feeham, each story follows the Carpathians, a race of people who are of the earth.  For lack of a better way to describe them, I guess you could say they are prevampires.  Each male Carpathian must find his true-life mate to continue his existence.  If he can't find her there is nothing left except to end his life by facing the sun or giving into the urge to become a vampire.<br />    In Dark Legend, Ms. Feeham gives us the story of Gabriel.  Throughout her previous books, she has told the story of twins, Gabriel and Lucian.  One has turned and the other has dedicated his life to tracking down his twin to keep him from destroying mankind.  No one knows what has happened to the brothers.  Now centuries later, we find out.  Apparently in a fierce battle, Gabriel was able to trap is brother into a deep sleep in a cemetery.  Things could have gone on like this for many more centuries but their resting-place was disturbed by heavy duty machinery.  Now both have awakened with a terrible thirst for blood.  Gabriel must track down his twin before he can do any damage.<br />     Francesca Del Ponce was Gabriel's life mate.  Instead of claiming her, he left her. Francesca leaves the Carpathians homeland has made a new life for herself afraid if she stays she will torment the others looking for their mates.  She knows she must hide her existence since an unattached female has great value in her society.  On her own, she has become a great healer.  But after centuries of being alone, she has decided to end her existence.  Now Gabriel must track his brother and convince Francesca that he is the one for her.<br />     It is really hard to describe with any accuracy a book by Christine Feeham and do it any justice.  There are so many little details that makes the \\"Dark\\" series fascinating and not enough space to fully flesh out the details andplots.  If you like your romances with dark brooding heroes, strong women who can tame them, hot sex, violent fight scenes, and the unknown then you have to try a book by Ms. Feeham.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-02-04
US	50944626	R1TBKKKGJY9CMX	0786014164	700436451	Crimson Kiss (Pinnacle horror)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Repulsive, yet Fascinating?	How do you go about reviewing a book that repulses yet fascinates you to the point you going back to it?  I'm still not sure how I feel about Crimson Kiss, but I can say it was different and interesting up to a point.  At times it seems poorly written, and at other times it can rival any well-written horror book and hold its own with the blood and gore.<br />     Meghann \\"Maggie\\" O'Neill was once like any other eighteen year old in 1944.  She was attending college with her friends, supporting the war effort, and getting ready to be married.  Then she meets the man who changes her life.  Lord Simon Baldevar is a man of the world.  He's cool, suave, and sophisticated.  He is fascinated with Maggie.  So fascinated that he takes her innocence and transforms her into his consort.  Now it's nothing new about an older man taking a younger woman as his mistress, what's unusual about this is Simon is a vampire and he makes Maggie into one of his own.  Simon is powerful.  He can be tender when he wants or he can be unbelievably cruel.  Nothing is too sadistic for him.  He can be pleased with Maggie one minute and torturing her the next.  He wants one thing from Meghann as he calls her, complete devotion and obedience.  Eventually Maggie has enough of his degrading games and with a bit of luck manages to stake him to the roof of their home and flees leaving him to face the dawn of a new day, which we all know will end the existence of a vampire.  Or will it?  <br />   Maggie sets out to straighten out her life.  She makes friends with another vampire called Charles who introduces her to his master Alcuin.  Alcuin is a hideous deformed vampire who just happens to also be a man of the cloth.  He takes Maggie under his wing and teaches her not all vampires are bad, that some try to give back to the world what others have taken.  Maggie learns to make herself strong with his guidance and returns to her old life as best she can.  She attends college and eventually becomes a psychologist who specializes in treating victims of abusive relationships, something she endured with Simon.  During this time she meets a human, Jimmy, and eventually is able to resume a relationship.  <br />     The story ends happily ever after?  Wrong.  It seems good old Simon didn't perish.  He's been resting up, gaining even more strength, and is now ready to reclaim Maggie.  What follows is a sadistic game of torture and horror as Maggie battles the one person who can destroy everything and everyone she holds dear.<br />     As I said, this book is full of contradictions.  It starts out in the present and flashes back to Maggie's transformation and her years with Simon, to her escape, and then back to her present life.  Nothing complicated there.  What I didn't like when the book flashed back to the beginning was how stilted and over dramatized the dialogue sounded.  The dialogue sounded gushy, it was too much.  But before you let that turn you off, I have to say when this author writes an action scene, she does it well.  I had no problem whatsoever visualizing what she was describing.  I kept wondering what she was going to come up with next to shock me and believe me; she did manage to shock me.<br />     Crimson Kiss by Trisha Baker has the promise of potential to come from this author.  I will probably buy the next book due out in April to see what happens.  If this author can improve the dialogue and maintain the horror and suspense of her books, she will be someone to watch for in the future.	2001-12-31
US	50944626	R3PDNMU8CT3INJ	0451204956	187046121	Bad Boy	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Fun!  Fun!  Fun!	Take a clean cut young man who holds a steady job with a high tech company, makes a great salary, and still after all these years cares enough about his mom and step moms that he visits them on Mother's Day.  Only problem is he can't get a date because he's too \\"nice.\\"  Put him under the tutorage of his best friend of seven years who sets out to turn him into a \\"bad boy\\", every woman's dream and what happens?  Well, that's the story.<br />     Tracie is a writer who is in love with a bad boy.  She treats him like a king and he treats her like dirt.  In fact, the worse he treats her the more she seems to want him.  Tracie and her friends all seem to go for the bad boy type.  In fact her childhood best friend, Laura has recently moved in to escape her relationship with a bad boy.<br />     Jon has been one of Tracie's best friends for seven years.  He recently waited in the rain for two hours for a date that never showed.  While Jon is a fairly good looking guy, he seems to get treated like dirt by women.  Many consider him a nerd.  The problem?  Jon is too nice for his own good.  He is a truly likeable man who treats women with respect-something they don't seem to want.  Out of desperation, Jon turns to Tracie and begs her to turn him into a bad boy, someone who can get and keep a date.  Tracie, the writer who is always looking for an angle to write about, sets out to recreate Jon and some hilarious moments follow.<br />     Jon, while he never sees the logic of the \\"Bad Boys\\" rules begins to see success in this experiment.  The worse he treats women, the more they flock to him.  Tracie, on the other hand, begins to grow up and see there is more to a relationship than being the one who makes all the sacrifices.  By the time she realizes this Jon is out of control, her life is out of control, and the whole experiment is headed for disaster.<br />     I've never read anything by Olivia Goldsmith before and I have to say I enjoyed this book.  It's funny, fast paced, andreads smoothly.  I loved the character of Jon, that loveable nerd trying to be a bad boy.  I'll never look at men in an airport or sporting goods store the same way again.  Tracie and her friends?  Well frankly I wanted to smack them for hanging out with losers and wanting more.  Part of me was yelling, \\"grow up!\\" while the other part of me is thankful to know the difference between a good man and a bad boy.  Bad Boy is a fun read and makes me glad I'm not on the dating scene anymore.	2001-12-31
US	50944626	REYNFF5EFYS38	0451410114	760990243	High Stakes	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Wonderful Characters, Fast Paced Plot	I am a compulsive reader.  Nothing drives me nuttier than getting my hands on a great book and not being able to sit down and read it straight through.  So be warned before you start High Stakes by Justine Dare.  Make the time to read it straight through or pay the price!  Ms. Dare has a winner in this book.  It has every element that makes great romantic suspense--a wonderful hero, feisty heroine, great secondary supporting cast, syndicated crime and murder.<br />     The hero is Aaron Montana.  He is running the family business, a gaming casino known as Golden Phoenix.  He is a big, rugged man, not particularly handsome.  By the size of him, you would expect him to be someone who is used to bullying his way to get what he wants.  But in fact, it is just the opposite.  Aaron is a wonderful leading man.  He's smart, values his family, friends, and employees.  His one big fault is his need to protect those who need it.  He has the need to rescue people.<br />     Our heroine is Shelby Wyatt.  Shelby has been on the run since she was twelve.  She has finally settled down thanks to the kindness of a woman who took her under her wing.  Now that woman is threatened by blackmail that could destroy her marriage.  Shelby isn't about to let that happen.  By trying to help, Shelby gets involved in murder and is on the run from a man determined to find her.  <br />      Now, put a wonderful protective hero with a feisty heroine used to taking care of herself and watch things explode.  The book has one of the neatest opening scenes that I have ever read.  The moral to the opening scene should probably read if you ever want to keep a low profile, don't play the slot machines in a casino.  <br />     I expected this book to get bogged down in places with all the characters and everyone holding back information that could solve a crime.  Ms. Dare didn't let that happen.  I liked the ending.  Even though Ms. Dare threw out clues to whom the murderer was, I missed picking up on themso the ending was a complete surprise.	2001-12-17
US	50944626	R2XNAXGVA3BYNH	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More than I Expected	I'm one of those readers who was a little disappointed by the first book, Dance Upon the Air, in this trilogy.  You have noticed it didn't keep me from buying the second installment of the series and I'm so glad I did.  Heaven and Earth is a great story with romance, suspense, and the supernatural.  The story flows as we are pulled into Ripley's story, catch up on Nell, and are given hints on Mia's past and things to come.<br />     Ripley Todd is the deputy on Three Sister Island where her brother Zack is the sheriff.  She doesn't embrace her heritage of witchcraft like Nell, her brother's wife, or Mia, her childhood friend.  In fact, Ripley goes to extreme lengths to pretend it doesn't exist.  Now she's feeling like something of a third wheel.  Zack and Nell survived a near death attack by Nell's former husband and have married.  While Ripley is close to both, she doesn't feel she needs to be living in the same house with the newlyweds.  There aren't many places to rent on the small island.  Against her better judgement, Ripley goes to Mia to see about renting a small cottage she owns.  To her shock, Mia has rented the cottage out to Dr. MacAllister Brooke, a paranormal researcher.<br />     While Nell and Mia have consented to helping Dr. \\"Mac\\" Brooke with his research, Ripley wants nothing to do with him.  However, we don't always get what we want out of life and Ripley finds the one person who can reach her soul.  The story revolves around Ripley coming to terms with herself and how evil can strike when we least expect it.<br />     I really like the way Nora Roberts developed the characters in this story.  Ripley is a strong woman who is not afraid to confront any physical danger that she can see and touch.  She will do anything to protect those that she loves.  However, Ripley's weak point is not being able to accept what she is and having to confront the fact she can be emotionally dependent on another and still be strong.  <br />     Mac is one of my all time favorite Roberts' heroes.  First off, he's a geek pure and simple.  He can't remember where he puts things and is always losing something, goes into a daze and forgets time when he is researching, and can't remember where simple places are like the local pizza place.  Don't get me wrong, he's all man and the perfect hero.  He's gorgeous and falls head over heels for Ripley.  Nothing she does will make him back off.  He knows what he has found with Ripley and fights to keep it.<br />     Nora Roberts has a winner with Heaven and Earth.  It has all the elements of a hit and will keep you glued to the story.   A short glimpse is given to Mia's story out next called Face the Fire the last book in this trilogy.  Just like the rest of you \\"Noraholics\\" in the world, I'll be eagerly be waiting for the next one.	2001-12-02
US	50944626	R2TTGTC1FUP5NF	0821772112	765200965	Closer Than She Thinks (Zebra Book,)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Get As Close As You Want!	Meryl Sawyer has a knack for writing great romantic suspense.  She is the kind of author that you just automatically buy her books when you see a new one with her name on it.  With Sawyer, you get your money's worth: suspense, interesting characters, dialogue that flows, and let's face it, there is usually some hot sex in her books.  What more could you ask for?<br />     Alyssa Rossi is a costume jewelry designer with her own business in Italy.  On the advice of her aunt she allows her business to be acquired by TriTech.  TriTech will take over the running of her business, allow her to expand, and free her up to focus more on her designing.  The only catch is she has to work at their headquarters in New Orleans.  For most this wouldn't be a problem, but for Alyssa it is.  Years earlier she had fled after being accused of kidnapping her cousin's newborn baby.  You see, Alyssa's cousin, Phoebe, had managed to get pregnant by Clay Duvall, the love of Alyssa's life.  Being from the upper crust of society, the two married leaving Alyssa out in the cold.  Foul play was suspected in the baby's disappearance, but nothing was ever proven to confirm or deny Alyssa' innocence.   <br />     Jake Williams is TriTech's CEO.  Jake has come up through life the hard way.  In fact he never knew his father Max until the old man hunted him up and persuaded him to take over the family business.  Jake doesn't give a flip about New Orleans' society.  He barely tolerates it for the sake of his father with whom he is trying to build a relationship.  One of the things he does have to tolerate is the presence of Clay Duvall in his company, it was part of the deal when TriTech acquired the Duvall company.  What doesn't make sense to Jake is why Clay bought a small jewelry making company, a company, which doesn't fit the profile of TriTech.  He begins to investigate the purchase of the company and finds himself fascinated by Alyssa Rossi.  The past begins to unfold while unraveling the presentand shaping the future.<br />     This has been my lucky month for reading great books with gorgeous leading men.  Jake is terrific.  He has had to fight to get where he is and doesn't care what others think of him.  Instead of trying to fit into New Orleans' society, he barely tolerates them and doesn't hesitate to let them know how he feels about them.  Jake's dialogue reflects the man he is.  While he presents himself as a suave businessman, anytime someone gets too close or he isn't sure how to handle a situation, he resorts to using sarcastic remarks that are often funny.<br />     There is an interesting group of secondary characters, each who play an integral part of the story.  Parts of their stories help weave the complex plot involved in this story.  Meryl Sawyer has written a great book.  Anyone who reads this one won't be bored.  Carve some time out of your busy schedule, find yourself some place comfortable, and get ready to be entertained.	2001-12-02
US	50944626	R2F0ABEB96DS9E	044100783X	430288648	Partners (Laws of the Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Unusual Partners Make the Best	Char McCairn is the Enforcer.  Her job is to enforce the Laws of the Blood, the rules and regulations all vampires must live by or run the risk of being exterminated.  She is approached a nest leader to track down a young renegade vampire.  It seems the young vampire hasn't quite learned all the rules of survival and has taken off on his own.  Should be an easy job for the Enforcer, but there is one little problem.  Char has received orders to get rid of Jebel Haven, a vampire hunter.  Why is this a problem?  Well, apparently Char hasn't had to enforce the laws before now and isn't quite sure how to go about taking out Jebel Haven.  So as any smart woman would do, she sets aside the big problem of Jebel and decides to work on the small problem first to get some experience.  Practice makes perfect, right?<br />     Jebel Haven used to be the scum of the earth.  You name it, he did it including spending time in prison.  A chance encounter with some vampires bent on destruction changed his life.  Now he has teamed up with some friends to rid the world of vampires.  Unwillingly, but at the urging of his buddy, he has agreed to help track down the runaway son of a FBI agent.  This is quite a turn around for our former criminal, working within the law instead of against it.<br />     As fate has an interesting way of intervening, Char and Jebel find out they are looking for the same runaway.  The missing teen is now a vampire and someone needs to stop him before he does any more damage.  Putting aside differences, (and unknown to Jebel, Char's orders to execute him) the two team up only to become aware they have bigger problems on their hands then they first thought.  Something is out there that your worst nightmare doesn't compare to.  Jebel and Char have to stop it before it gains control of Seattle, both humans and vampires.<br />     This is my second book by Susan Sizemore, and so happens her second book in the Laws of Blood series (never let it be said I read anything in the proper order since I read the third book first).  It doesn't disappoint.  While not as hard-hitting or dark as her third book Companions, Partners is just as compelling.  I loved the fact that the Enforcer was new to the job and not quite sure how to handle things.  Jebel maybe our hero of the book, but let's face it, he definitely not the stuff heroes are made of.  While the story is definitely dark and violent, there are some almost lighthearted moments that keeps the story moving.  Being a romantic fan, I loved the relationship between Char and Jebel.  For those of you who don't like the romance angle, rest assure there is plenty of blood and gore to keep your interest.	2001-12-02
US	50944626	R1I9U2YZHZCTLG	0441006604	822090862	The Hunt (Laws of the Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	92	96	N	Y	Let the Hunt Begin!	Finally, after reading Partners and Companions in the Laws of Blood series by Susan Sizemore, I managed to get my hands on The Hunt, the first book.  I wasn't disappointed.  It was all I thought it would be and I still find myself fascinated by the series. <br />     Los Angeles Enforcer Selim finds himself in the position of having to give his approval for a hunt.  It seems that every so often the vampires of the city need to taste fresh blood.  Each nest (small community of vampires) is given the ok to hunt for x amounts of humans.  Now this has to be handled very carefully.  You see a vampire in need of a hunt is apparently in the same state of someone who needs a fix.  You know what I mean, someone desperate for drugs, alcohol, chocolate (just thought I would throw that in there to see if you were paying attention) and will do anything to get what they need.  The trick is maintaining control and not letting the hunt turn into a blood bath.<br />     Since Selim is the Enforcer, it is his job to take control, organize the hunt, select the victims, and everyone is supposed to accept his decision and abide by it.   Things don't quite work out that way.  Some of the other vampire leaders resent his authority and try to undermine him.  Meanwhile his mortal love, Siri, isn't afraid to question his decisions and has a few secrets of her own to hide.  Selim soon finds himself with bigger problems than controlling the hunt and Siri when he hears someone is about to commit an act of betrayal that could destroy the their existence.<br />     While I enjoyed The Hunt and found it worth the read, it was almost too much.  There are so many subplots that it got to the point it became distracting keep up with what characters where involved in what plot and why they were involved.  There were some cool moments in the book.  I particularly liked the young vampire Sterling and how Selim has to explain the difference between stalking and courting.  It was almost in a comical sensehow Sterling kept showing up (hero worship?) when Selim needed backup.  <br />     While I don't consider this story up to par with the two that come after it, it is still a worthwhile read.  It has all the elements, which make up what I expect from this series: blood, gore, violence, sex, and fascinating characters.   Susan Sizemore has an interesting series going and I hope it expands past the five books, which I understand are supposed to make up this series.	2001-12-02
US	50944626	R2JSJOB4PN8II7	1551668483	302032394	North Of Clever (Hannah Garvey Mysteries #3)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Never a Dull Moment	Imagine getting ready to finally consummate your relationship with one of the sexiest men you have ever met that just happens to be seven years younger and the sheriff of the town.  You've worked up to this moment, the time is finally here, you are ready for it, anticipation hums in the air, finally, finally it is going to happen, and then wham. . . his parents show up unexpectedly before you can do the deed!  Welcome to North of Clever, the continuing saga of Hannah Garvey, Sheriff David Hendrickson, and the over the hill gang of the exclusive retirement community of Valhalla Springs.<br />     As luck would have it, Hannah and David are interrupted before the big moment.  Some people have all the rotten luck.  Now are you ready for a nice, quiet little story?  Don't be, things are never what you expect when dealing with Susann Ledbetter's stories.  Have no fear; things run amok in Hannah and David's relationship when the circus comes to town.  Sheriff David is continuing to campaign for his bid to be reelected as sheriff of Sanity, Missouri.  His opponent is a good for nothing good old boy who promises to deliver the moon and stars to the good citizens while making  mountains out of molehills the little things that have happened lately in their town while David is in lust with Hannah.  David, needing some goodwill from the townspeople, goes to see the visiting circus and takes Hannah along.  It should be a day of fun and goodwill.  Right?  As usual, life isn't simple with our heroine and hero.  Who does Hannah just happen to meet at the circus?   Her long lost father who turns out to be none other than Reilly Boone, former star magician.  He is now the husband-assistant of the lady illusionist AnnaLeigh who just happens to be built like a centerfold and isn't exactly what you call the faithful wife.  During their performance the lovely, two-timing AnnaLeigh bites the dust as their  bullet-catch trick turns out to be the real thing and she ends up dead.  Reilly ischarged with murder and Hannah and the over the hill gang race to prove his innocence.  <br />     This is a fun book to read; however, it doesn't quite manage to hit all the high notes as the two previous books.  I can't really put my finger on  what isn't right in the story.  While the over the hill gang played their part, it seems like they don't have much to do with the plot as they have in the two previous books until the end.  There wasn't as much emphasis placed on Hannah and David's relationship throughout the story.  Beginning and ending are pure Hannah and David, but in the middle they don't really work together as they have done in the past.  Don't get me wrong, it's still a good book.  I guess I was just a little disappointed it didn't have the same feel as the two previous books.<br />     However, hats off to Suzann Ledbetter for generating anticipation for the fourth book, West of Bliss in July 2002.  Wouldn't you just know it, David finally pops the big question to Hannah and we are left with no answer until the next book.  Like any other loyal fan, I will be waiting for it just to see what kind of trouble can follow our gang over a simple marriage proposal.  With this gang, no telling what is in store for us!	2001-12-02
US	50944626	R16NQXM7QM0ZAQ	1551668440	933517522	Snowfall	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Don't Get &quot;Snowed&quot; by This Book	Caitlin Bennett is a well-known, well-respected mystery writer.  She has been receiving threatening letters for the past few months that she has shared with no one except the police.  They can't help her until a crime has been committed.  Caitlin leads a sheltered life.  She has few friends that she can confide in.  One of those friends is Aaron, her editor.  Aaron is concerned because the publishing company has received a bomb threat unless they stop publishing Caitlin's books.<br />     Then Caitlin is involved in an accident.  Someone pushed her in front of a speeding truck.  Aaron insists that Caitlin allow his stepbrother, ex-cop Connor \\"Mac\\" McKee protect her until the police can find out who is terrorizing her.  Caitlin and Mac had met once before when Aaron set them up on a blind date.  Things didn't go well then, and aren't about to go well now.<br />     This book didn't work for me.  While there are some good scenes involving the murder of women who resemble Caitlin, it wasn't any surprise who was the bad guy.  The romance read like it was forced and I was disappointed in the character of Caitlin.  The relationship between the lead characters seemed stilted and the dialogue was sappy.<br />     This is one of those situations where the author had something going with the suspense, but the romance ruined the story.  In my opinion, if more had been put into the suspense angle and less on the romance, Ms. Salsa could have had a good book.  I have enjoyed books by Sharon Salsa/Dinah McCall before and will probably continue to gamble on buying her books.	2001-11-13
US	50944626	R1BIPIJC9RJ94	0380815516	277174781	Leaving Lonely Town	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great Story About Relationships!	Sable Barclay is a criminologist for a private laboratory who is comparing baby hair found on a skeleton with that on a baby brush.  She is trying to determine if this is the hair belonging to the missing Langtry baby.  The baby was kidnapped over twenty-eight years ago.  The family is still searching for answers on what happened to their baby.  What strikes Sable as unusual is the fact that the missing baby has her first name and the same birth date.  While many would call this coincidence, Sable is struck by the similarity.  You see, Sable was adopted and knows nothing about her birth parents.<br />     Together with her best friend, Eden Eglantine, she decides to visit the town where the family resides and see what she can find out.  What she finds out is more than she bargains for.  After meeting the family, there is little doubt in anyone's mind that Sable is the missing child.  Yet, it is hard to begin a relationship with people you know nothing about.  Sable decides to play it safe and hightails it back home deciding to leave well enough alone.<br />    Culley Blackwell works for the Langtry family and cares about them.  Culley has had a rough life and finally found peace and acceptance within this family.  However, he can't stand the pain he sees them in and goes to Sable and convinces her to return.  Culley gets more than he bargains for when Sable returns and decides to stay with him.  She considers Culley to be neutral territory.  A person she can be with when the stress gets to be too much.  Culley, who lives alone with the bare necessities, doesn't quite know how to handle this emotional woman.<br />     Meanwhile, Sable's friend Eden is a woman who has been ridicule by her domineering family all her life.  She considers herself unworthy of love.  Sable is and always has been the one good thing in her life.  Much to her dismay, Roarke, Sable's might be brother, takes an interest in her.  This pleases the Langtry family since Roarke has cut himself off from life since the death of his wife and infant child.  <br />    I could on and on trying to convey what a great book this is and never capture the essence of the book.  Just trying to describe the plot is almost impossible because there are so many different emotions and things happening.  I guess if I had to pinpoint it, I would say the book is about relationships.  Don't let the plot fool you into thinking this might be a sad or depressing book to read.  There are many funny moments in this book and also some action involving Eden's evil brother.  I will say this story picks up from Ms. London's previous book.  However I think it stands alone.  <br />If you are looking for a book about relationships (two love stories for the price of one) with comedy and drama, this is probably a book you will want to read.  As usual, I will be waiting for her next book.	2001-11-13
US	50944626	R2SSQ8KESVXFAT	0515131679	175740429	The Gingerbread Man	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Pleasant Saturday Afternoon Read	Detective Vincent O'Mally has always been the type of police officer that is very calm, rational and objective during the investigation of horrific crimes.  He has been decorated for outstanding performance several times by the Syracuse Police Department.  But his latest case is taking its toll on him.  He can't eat, sleep, or do anything but focus on the kidnapping of two small children.  To make matters worse, the mother of the missing children has begun to appear in his office with a picture of her two children wanting to know what the police have discovered.  Vince, trying to ease her pain, makes a promise to her he knows he shouldn't.  He promises to bring her children home to her.  A few days later, he receives a tip on an abandon house.  The smell coming out of it is horrible.  Vince and his partner investigate only to make a gruesome discovery.  Inside the house are the badly decomposed bodies of Sara Prague's children.  No clues are found, there is nothing to go on except an old, abandon over due library book called The Gingerbread Man.<br />     The FBI is called in to take over the case.  Vince is outraged.  He wants to continue on the case even though he is clearly not handling it well.  He is ordered to take either a thirty-five day leave of absence to get his act together or spend one hour a day for thirty-five days with the department shrink.  Vince walks out determined to continue investigating on his own.<br />     Vince keeps the overdue library book he found at the scene.  It's marked as belonging to Dilmun Public Library in Dilmun, New York.  He goes there and finds a quiet little town that only comes to life during tourist season.  As he begins to try to find out who checked out the book, which he feels, is a valuable clue, he meets Holly Newman.  Holly is a fragile young woman with bright red hair whom the town tries to protect and shelter.  She witnessed the kidnapping of her young sister whose body was never found.  This drove her to a breakdown and obsessive compulsion disorder.  Holly works for the chief of police who quickly finds out who the book was checked out by without telling Vince.  Holly checked it out years ago for her younger sister.  How could this book resurface after so many years?   <br />     Vince and Holly finally team up and begin to discover clues about the kidnapping of several young girls.  Someone doesn't want them to be successful.  Holly begins to slip into her old pattern of counting things while seeing things that she doesn't know if they are real or a figment of her imagination.  Then, at a Halloween party thrown by the town's most famous citizen, tragedy strikes again when a young girl disappears.  The host, Reginald D'Voe, is a retired actor who was famous for his horror roles has a secret to hide of his own concerning his niece, Amanda.  Soon this quaint little town begins to unravel, as no one can trust anyone.<br />     I have never read anything by Maggie Shayne until I read a short story by her in Out of This World a few months ago.  Needless to say, I was impressed enough to buy her new book.  It doesn't disappoint.  The Gingerbread Man is a nifty little mystery.  While my ego likes to pride itself on figuring out who the bad guy is in advance, I had some trouble on this one.   I will definitely be looking for more of Ms. Shayne's books.	2001-11-13
US	50944626	R16340CLM9241J	0441008755	363405363	Companions (Laws of the Blood, Book 3 )	Books	5	116	121	N	N	Move Over Anita Blake, Here's Selena Crawford	Just when I despaired of ever finding anything to take care of my \\"vampire fix\\" that had a strong heroine ready to kick butt (like my favorite Anita Blake), I ran across Laws of the Blood:  Companions by Susan Sizemore.  What a treat and what a story for a newcomer to this genre of writing such as myself.<BR>     <BR>     Selena Crawford is a homicide detective for the Chicago Police Department.  She's tough, she's strong, and she's a regular Amazon.  Selena doesn't take anything off anyone except...of course there has to be an exception in this story.  It seems that two years earlier, Selena got in a bit of bind when vampires surrounded her and were about to do away with her.  To her rescue came our hero, Istvan.  Istvan, or Steve, as Selena calls him is the enforcer.  He makes sure all the vampires obey their written code or set of laws.  In order for Steve to save Selena, he ends up making her his \\"companion.\\"  The last thing Steve wants is a \\"companion.\\"  It ranks right up there with being married.  According to vampire law, a companion is a vampire's property.  They may do with their companions, as they will.  There is one little problem though, Selena chooses to do what she wants, not necessarily what Steve wants.  In order to keep from driving each other insane, Steve and Selena see each other as little as possible.   <br />     Then someone begins killing vampires and leaving their bodies out for the police to find.  Selena is naturally called in to investigate.  If having dead vampires to deal with wasn't enough to deal with, Selena finds her family sheltering one, and Steve just casually dropping in for a visit.  Selena is also secretly talking to other companions on the internet about the way they are treated.  This has to be done secretly, or they could all pay the price.<br />     I am so glad I found this book.  The characters are dynamite, the dialogue is snappy and there is plenty of action.  Yes, for you who enjoy a little romance and hot sex, thereis plenty of that also.  It is my understanding that this is the third book in a series of five.  While the storyline continues, the characters don't necessarily show up in each book.  I'm impressed enough that I've order the first two (...).  For me, if this book is any indication of the two previous books and the two forth-coming books, I'm in for the long run.	2001-11-13
US	50944626	R90P4BMFS8VNM	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	2	12	15	N	Y	Whatever!	I don't think I have ever written a review this sloppy before but frankly after reading the book the best I can come up with is \\"whatever\\".  I, like many other reviewers, don't know if I cared for this book or not.  I'm not going to review the plot since there had to be fifteen different subplots and I, frankly, am not sure which was the main plot.  To be honest, there were things I really liked about this book and there were things I hated.<br />I enjoyed the marrying of the marks.  It's time for Anita, Richard, and Jean Claude to move forward with their power base.  Anita is developing powers that continue to amaze her.  We see the vulnerable side as she tries to cope with the difference between love and sexual needs.  Also incorporated into the story is Anita's struggle to keep her religious beliefs while dealing evil.  It was nice to see Nathaniel develop some backbone and his dependency evolve into some form of independence for him.  The addition of Micah was a surprise.  Richard (my least favorite) finally showed what he was made of (not in a good way for you Richard fans).<br />What did I not like about this book?  Quite a bit to be honest.  Where was the plot, or should I say which was the main plot?  The book starts out well enough, but to me quickly degenerated into an orgy.  Anita spent her time running from one crisis to the next while having sex in the middle.  I missed some of the old favorites.  Where was Larry?  Not enough police action with Dolph!<br />Many fans have complained they don't like the direction Anita is going, that she is losing her humanity.  I'm not sure there is any humanity left in Anita at this point.  That worries me because I don't see what direction is left for Laurell K. Hamilton to go with this fascinating series.  I'll buy the next Anita Blake book in hopes that the author pulls it back in the direction it started out.  There are still too many unresolved storylines to quit this series, but please Ms. Hamilton, give us a plotwe can follow!	2001-10-21
US	50944626	R2HJQ8R68O3F5D	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Hide and Seek a Pleasure to Find!	Take a ditzy, blond, bimbo who is the girlfriend of an international crime lord with a hidden agenda.  Throw in an agent posing as an associate of the crime lord really to take him down after four years of carefully setting the stage.  Throw in three passionate nights over four years ago that neither has forgotten and watch the sparks ignite.  Delanie Eastman is a kindergarten teacher who assumes a persona of a sex kitten while searching for her sister.  Kyle Wright is a man of many faces; doctor, scientist, agent, and commando all rolled into one.  She'll stop at nothing to find her sister.  He'll let nothing stand in his way of stopping an international incident.  Nothing can stop either of them, that is until they find themselves face to face after four years.  Throw in disreputable crime lords from around the world, the sadistic mother from hell, and you have an attention-grabbing read in store for yourself.<BR>  <BR>   This is my second book by Cherry Adair and I have to say I enjoyed it just as much as the first.  Ms. Adair has the most fascinating characters.  I love the way they interact with each other.  The characters ooze sex appeal and the dialogue flies between them.  The heroine, while clearly out of her natural element, displays a spunk that can match anyone.  The hero is tough, sexy, tender, and smart.   The plot?  Well, the plot is pretty lame.  But you know what?  You won't notice it or care with all the suspense, excitement, and sex that flow throughout the book.  When I buy a book by Ms. Adair, I know I am going to be entertained!	2001-10-17
US	50944626	R1Y3UN7DQWNF1I	1551668637	205704227	A New Attitude	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Wacky, Comical, and Touching	Marilee Abernathy's husband, the Reverend Grady Abernathy, decides to end their marriage when he moves in with the town's floozy taking with him their teenage son, Josh.  Marilee is devastated to lose her marriage, son, and church.  She decides to dress in her finest and end her life.  What should be a simple matter of committing suicide ends up being more complicated than Marilee bargained for when things don't go as planned each time.  Then to make matters worse, the handsome hunk next door hears her screams and rushes to the rescue her after another botched attempt.  Marilee is mortified that someone knows what she was attempting.  She is especially embarrassed that it is Sam Brewer.  Sam was the bad boy during their high school years.   He thought she was the prettiest thing, and she was told not to walk on the same side of the road as him if she wanted to keep her reputation.  But it seems good old Sam is now something of a reformed bad boy since he sold his business and moved home to take care of his elderly mother.  Reformed that is until he gets a good look at Marilee.<br />Marilee decides to pull herself together.  First thing on her agenda is to get custody of her teenage son, Josh.  Josh reminds me of a typical teenager.  He is taking the divorce hard and hurting the person he loves most.  Second thing Marilee attempts is to get a job.  It's kind of hard to reenter the workforce when you've been a minister's wife and only done charity work.  Marilee finds the only job available with her skills is in a funeral home.  Nothing wrong with this, unless you have a phobia of dead people and Marilee has one big time.  <br />To help Marilee readjust to life outside of marriage is a hilarious cast of secondary characters.  The two best friends which are totally opposite of each other, the old lady next door (Sam's mom) who is manipulating her grown son to the point he is about to go crazy staying one step ahead of her, and my favorite Winnie.  Winnie is a pregnantteenager who has been kicked out of her home and somehow ends up living with Marilee.  You will love this character.<br />I didn't know what to expect when I decided to buy this book.  Just the thought of it starting out with someone attempting to commit suicide was almost more than what I wanted to read.  But I have to say this book is fun.  It's wacky, comical, and touching in some parts.  If you want something different, this book should be right up your alley.  Just don't expect things to proceed as planned because it won't happen.	2001-09-26
US	50944626	R1FC4AK264P8FA	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	4	27	29	N	Y	Have Mercy on My Romantic Soul!	When I say \\"have mercy on my romantic soul\\" I mean it. Julie Garwood has gone back to her trademark of strong heroine, dashing hero, great dialogue and comic moments that made her such a popular historical romance writer. This book flows with the interaction between characters. Even though this is supposed to be a suspense thriller, to me it was more of a romantic suspense story.<br />Theo Buchanan, brother to the popular Nick from Garwood's novel, Heartbreaker gets his own story. What a story it is! Theo is at a snazzy event in New Orleans, about to give a speech when he is struck down with an appendicitis attack. A young woman rushes to his aid when she promptly gets thrown up on over her new dress and a black eye when Theo thinks she is trying to rob him of his gun and wallet. To his shock he later finds out the young woman is Dr. Michelle \\"Mike\\" Renard, a brilliant young surgeon from a small town in the swamps who manages to save his life. Theo is suffering from burnt out and decides to visit the small town Michelle is in the process of setting up a new clinic. His pretense is he wants to check out the fishing but he really wants to check out Michelle.<br />Meanwhile the suspense surrounds four friends who have been committing white-collar crimes several years. The leader, John, manages to convince the others to help him carry out a \\"mercy\\" killing on his poor wife who has supposedly been ill for several years. What the others don't realize is John wants the wife out of the way so he can inherit her money. Well, needless to say, John isn't as smart as he thinks when he finds out his wife has changed her will, left him nothing, and sent some information to Michelle that John and the others don't want made public.<br /> I liked this book. It was funny, had wonderful characters, snappy dialogue, and a great cast of secondary characters. I would have given this book a five except for the fact that the suspense takes backseat to the romantic side. This isn't necessary a bad thing since the romance is pretty darn good but it really doesn't cut it as a \\"suspense thriller.\\" However, I have to say while I didn't care for Ms. Garwood's previous novel, Heartbreaker, she has definitely redeemed herself with Mercy. Let me finish with a personal request-please--give us Noah's story!	2001-09-24
US	50944626	RAHPSJZ7E4SYT	0553802380	89887514	The Next Accident	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Chilling Suspense with a Devious Psycopath!	This book scared the living daylights out of me. Not because it was full of graphic violence or gory scenes. It's the chilling suspense that just steadily creeps at you until you have to put it down and take a deep breath. Lisa Gardner has truly outdone herself in The Next Accident.<br />The two lead characters from The Third Victim are brought back and we see how much and how little their relationship has developed. Pierce Quincy is still a special agent for the FBI and Rainie Conner is getting her life back together and opening up her own private investigating office. Quincy is confronted with a family tragedy when his oldest daughter who had seemly conquered a drinking problem is involved in a terrible accident that leaves her brain dead. When Quincy's ex-wife, Bethie agrees to take their daughter Amanda off life support you would think they would be able to get on with their lives. But for some reason Quincy can't believe the wreck was an accident. He goes to Rainie and hires her to investigate and perhaps open the door to continue their relationship.<br />As Rainie begins to dig into the circumstances surrounding Amanda's wreck, she begins to unravel little details that don't make sense. Then Quincy begins to receive hundred of terrorizing calls from men that he has either put away in prison or from those who just plain hate the FBI. Someone has given out his personal phone number and address. In fact, someone is methodically assuming his identity and destroying his creditability. The killer is cunning and brilliant. He finds out everything about Quincy's life and those who are important to him. Then he selects his next victim. He stalks his victims learning every detail about their lives. He becomes whatever it is they desire. Unfortunately, what they desire often leads to death with the blame being laid at Quincy's feet.  <br />This is one nerve-racking book. The story line just flows, the suspense just keeps on building, and the characters are dynamic with well round emotions. If you love suspense, don't mind being scared, then this book should be right up your alley. I have to say, I love suspense and can usually figure out who the bad guys are by the middle of the book. Not this time. Ms. Gardner has written a fascinating tale of chilling suspense that had me guessing the entire time.	2001-09-10
US	50944626	RN4HPNU3CWTRY	0804119686	563168274	I Got You, Babe	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Can I Keep You, Babe?	I Got You, Babe is a light-hearted romantic comedy that will keep you tuned in and the world tuned out.  While in some ways it is predictable knowing madcap adventures are at every corner, Jane Graves has created likable characters that you cant help caring about.<br />Renee Esterhaus is blamed for a robbery she didnt commit.  Everyone is convinced of her guilt and the system is set to work against her.  Renee, who had quite an impressive police record as a juvenile, has no intentions of going to jail for a crime she didnt commit.   So what does a girl do?  She runs for it.  Unfortunately Renee doesnt anticipate a bounty hunter coming after her.  Leandro, the bounty hunter is so big and ugly that just looking at him would give any sane person the creeps.  Renee manages to escape Leandro and in the process puts on a big sexual production with a stranger to get a ride as far away from Leandro as she can.  Her big plan is to seduce the stranger and rip off his car and money.  Things dont quite work out that way when first she is truly attracted (for the first time in a long time) to the stranger, second the stranger turns out to be cop John DeMarco, and third Leandro turns up just as she is about to make her escape.<br />What follows is a madcap adventure.  Just when you think nothing else can happen, believe me it does.  I was quite impressed with the secondary characters and Johns family (which just happens to be a family with strong ties in one way or another to law enforcement) and I am happy to know the authors next novel will feature Alex, the older brother.  Thank you Jane Graves for an upbeat comedy that was the perfect way to spend Labor Day weekend.	2001-09-03
US	50944626	RW49D2K2TLZ8D	0553583441	789284175	Touching Evil: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Oh My, Oh My!	Ive started this review several times, and I just cant seem to come up with words and descriptions to do justice to this book.  In my wildest dreams I didnt see how Kay Hooper could possible top her Shadows trilogy which I thought was fantastic, but you know what, I think she has managed to do just that.<br />Maggie Barnes is a police sketch artist working with the police in Seattle.  She has a unique gift of being able to draw crucial information out of victims and therefore sketching whoever has harmed them.  No matter how terrifying or gruesome the crime is, Maggie finds a way to relate to the victims.  That is until the Blindfold Rapist hits Seattle. <br />John Garrett is a powerful businessman who has just managed to worm his way into a high profile case.  Someone is attacking the women of Seattle, savagely raping and brutally beating them.   Then, for reasons known only to the attacker, he cuts their eyes out.  Why is John involved?  One of the victims was his sister.<br />While Seattle has a good police department, John becomes frustrated and takes matters into his own hands by calling Quentin, boyhood friend.  Quentin works for a special unit at the FBI.  This special unit deals with psychic abilities and the unknown.  Sound familiar?  You got it.  Some friends from the Shadows trilogy make an appearance and play a vital part of this story. <br />As I said before, there are so many factors in this story that I cant do it justice.  I will say this before you dive into it, pay attention to the numerous characters introduced.  They all play vital roles.  If I have any complaints about this new series it would be the fact they are not going to be released one after another for three months like the last trilogy Ms. Hooper wrote.  I have to admit while reading the Shadows trilogy, I got spoiled knowing I only had to wait one month before the next book came out.	2001-08-31
US	50944626	R3IVLH3KTOLI40	0425181464	403003617	Seduction in Death	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Ready to be Seduced?	Let me start off by saying this, in my opinion, is the best Death book yet. The story is fast paced and best of all, all the secondary characters contribute to the story and many have storylines of their own.<BR>The story opens with Roarke off at the funeral of his old friend Mick and Eve trying to survive the night without him. As she tries to sleep, she finds herself dreaming of her father. Only this time the dreams go further than it ever has leaving her shaken beyond belief. Then the call comes, another homicide, another body, and another death. The man of their dreams is wooing young, single, attractive women in a chat room where they discuss poetry, the arts, and the finer things in life. Each meets him for drinks at a swanky, romantic spot to be safe and then finds herself sexually enamored enough to take him back to her apartment. He turns the lights down low, puts on romantic music, and throws rose petals on the bed. He does everything in his power to make it the most romantic encounter of her life. You see it will be the last thing she will ever know.<BR>I had wondered if Robb was going to let us down... Folks, I was not let down in the least. Yes, there is the usual blood and violence, the sex with Roarke, and we knew who was committing the murders fairly quicklybut what made this book for me was the use and revelations of the secondary characters. They played a prominent role in this book, which makes it worthwhile. Get ready to be seduced, not by murder, but the wonderful interactions that only Robb can produce.	2001-08-29
US	50944626	R2FW8YVRL43IZZ	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Can Someone Find Me a Carpathian Male?	I hadn&#8217;t read anything by Christine Feehan until a week ago when several fellow readers told me I just had to read her series to believe it. Well, this is my fourth book by Ms. Feehan in a week and it has been a wild ride. I would do a brief review of the story, but I think that has pretty well been covered by the other reviewers. Just let me say this, after four books, the story line remains fascinating. Each features a Carpathian who after centuries of searching for his life mate has to make a decision: either greet the sun and perish, or risk losing control and becoming a vampire who tortures the human race. In this story, Dark Fires, Darius the strong protector of his family is facing that reality. Then into his life comes Tempest. The only problem is Tempest isn&#8217;t Carpathian. She&#8217;s human. Tempest hasn&#8217;t had an easy life and really doesn&#8217;t understand the whole concept of love, family, and most importantly trust. Darius, being the alpha male, has the overwhelming urge to dominate and protect the woman of his life. Tempest, who grew up on the streets ends up battling against his arrogance and dominating ways. Let me just say this, if you want a sensual book with tons of excitement, and thrills; this is the series for you.	2001-08-27
US	50944626	R2MKEI64SPE5OV	0505524090	703185720	Dark Challenge (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 5)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	My Favorite To Date	I have to say, after scanning the other reviews, I was afraid I would be disappointed in this book. Wrong! I do believe it is my favorite out of the four I have read by Ms. Feehan this week. In the past books in this series, Julian has been portrayed as the dark brooding soul who is about to end it all. After centuries of hunting down Carpathians who have turned vampire, he feels he must end his life. Apparently the Carpathian males must find their life mates. If they don't they lose the ability to feel emotions and see colors. They live in the gray area of life until they either meet the sun and end it all or turn to the other side and become the dread vampire. Julian also carries a dark secret in his soul that forced him to separate himself from friends and his twin. Julian makes the decision to greet the sun when he is asked to do one last favor. He must warn a singer that she is being stalked. Julian finds the singer and her family just before they are about to begin a concert. Suddenly there is an assassination attempt and before Julian can react he finds there is more. He has found his life mate and she is about to die. What made this book so special for me was the complete change in Julian, as he has to learn to cope with the changes in his life and fight to protect his woman. Things don't quite as smoothly as they should because Julian's woman has a mind of her own, and a big brother whose not about to let some male invade his domain and take charge of his family. Let the fireworks begin!	2001-08-27
US	50944626	RW7UGGBI99F2J	0515131091	173732316	Out of this World	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Appetizer before the Main Course	Out of This World should be called the appetizer before the main course.  Each of the our authors have written teasing little short stories (with the exception of Laurell K. Hamilton) that will wet your appetite for their new books coming out in the next few months.<br />I'll be honest; I bought this book strictly for the stories by J. D. Robb and Laurell K. Hamilton.  Ms. Robb once again brings us that dynamic couple Eve Dallas and Roarke.  This time we see glimpse of Roarke's childhood as Dallas fights to keep him from being framed for murder as the result of retaliation against the crimes of his father.  Most of the old favorite characters are in the story as they all attend a conference off the planet at a resort owned by Roarke (naturally).  While this story isn't one of Robb's best, it sure was nice to see my favorite couple before the release of their next story later this month.<br />Ms. Hamilton brings back Anita Blake and the gang in her story.  I was disappointed when I learned it is the first six chapters in her new book coming out in October, but you know what-it was still a blast to read it.  It just makes me want October to get here a lot quicker.  I can't think of a more intriguing trio than Anita, Jean-Claude, and Richard.  This one promises to be continuing saga of a fascinating storyline.<br />I've never read Maggie Shayne before.  She is definitely on my list of must read.  I really liked her short story because the heroine, instead of the hero starts out as the bad guy.  That's something you don't normally see.  The preview of her forthcoming books sounds interesting so I've added it to my growing list.<br />The last author is Susan Krinard.  Again an author I've never read.  For some reason I could not get into her short story.  Everyone has told me she is a good writer, but I didn't see it.<br />For well known authors with three short stories and one with a glimpse into her new novel.  What more could any reader ask for to tide them over untilnew releases hit the market?	2001-08-12
US	50944626	R35JNLT8AEB64T	0399147381	304671626	Hemlock Bay (FBI Thrillers, No. 6)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Welcome Back-- Dillon and Sherlock!	I'll confess right off the bat that I love the coupe of Lacey Sherlock and Dillon Savich.  I continually buy Catherine Coulter's books just to keep up with this couple.  I have been looking forward to this book because these two characters were supposed to play a large part of the story line.  I wasn't disappointed.<br />The story opens up with Dillon and Sherlock trying to capture Tommy and Timmy Tuttle, a pair of brothers who get their kicks out of kidnapping, torturing, and murdering young boys.  They have kidnapped two young teenagers and Dillon is determined to stop them before they kill them.  Things don't go as planned and Dillon ends up stopping them without backup.  It is then he makes a startling discovery.  It is a discovery that will continue to haunt him as he tries to figure out all the puzzle pieces.<br />Meanwhile, Dillon receives a phone call that his sister has been involved in a car accident.  Or was it really an accident?  Lily had tried to commit suicide some months earlier over the death of her young child.  Dillon and Sherlock fly to Hemlock Bay to check on Lily and find everything is not as it appears to be.  They call in Dillon's friend from college, Simon Russo, to help solve the mystery of missing artwork and how it ties in to Lily's suicide attempts.<br />Did I like this book?  Definitely yes!  Is it Ms. Coulter's best works?  Sadly it isn't.  There are three subplots making up this story.  One could have been left out completely.  I never did figure out the purpose of it anyway.  That leaves the other two subplots.  The story of Dillon trying solving the puzzle of the Tuttle brothers was great.  I would have preferred the whole book to be about the case.  It has a supernatural undertone that I personally liked.  Ms. Coulter was on to something fascinating, but it ended up taking second place to the other subplot about Dillon's sister.  Don't get me wrong, this plot was equally good but it didn't have the intensity of the other the otherstory.  Lily's story could have been a book by itself.  By combining the two plots, Ms. Coulter weakens the overall effect of the book.  <br />But you know what, that won't stop me from buying the next book featuring Dillon and Sherlock.  I love watching this couple grow in their careers, marriage, and family.  If you haven't read anything by Catherine Coulter, pick up the first book in this series, The Maze and take it from there.	2001-08-12
US	50944626	R2OFR654ZVGC3I	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Open Season--Two Legged Variety	Daisy Minor wakes up on her thirty-fourth birthday and realizes she is going nowhere fast.  She lives at home with her mother and aunt.  Her job consists of being the head librarian in a southern, one-horse town.  It has been so long since her last date she doesn't even want to remember it.  It's now or never, do something about her life or forever be stuck in the same situation.<br />Daisy set out with a vengeance to completely remake herself.  She wants a husband and family.  Somewhere, some place, there has to be a man for her.  Even though Daisy is a bright girl, she can't even figure how to correctly apply basic make up or dress like a woman under sixty.  Her mother comes to the rescue and set her up with Todd, a gay man who used to be on Broadway and now owns an antique store.  Todd recognizes potential and completely supervises Daisy's make over from makeup, hair, clothes, to her newly rented home.  He encourages Daisy to hit the nightclubs and meet men.<br />Life would be nice if everything went accordingly to Daisy's plan.  Well, whoever said life was fair was lying.  Daisy manages to attract the attention of Jack Russo, chief of police.  He's big, all man, and a former member of the SWAT teams in Chicago and New York.  While he seems to get pleasure out of stirring up Daisy, she gets nothing but irritation.  That is until the sparks ignite.<br />I gave Open Season a four.  Don't get me wrong, the book is great, but it doesn't blend the romance and mystery as well as Ms. Howard's previous novel.  You will laugh and love the main characters, Daisy and Jack.  I will never be able to hear the words \\"mauve\\" and \\"puce\\" without thinking of this book again.  There are a lot of comical moments that set this book apart from others.  However, while there is suspense and a great \\"surround and capture the bad guys\\" scene, it is almost as if the suspense is added in at the last moment or in small dosages to continue the story line.  This could have been a fabulous romance or a fascinating suspense novel, putting the two together just made it a great book.  <br />My biggest gripe about this book is it only took about three hours to read.  Now I have to wait another six months or year for the next book by Ms. Howard.   Ms. Howard, please start writing faster.  I love your books and hated waiting for the next one!	2001-07-18
US	50944626	RNMQDS51TYZ9S	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	You Have to Read This to Believe It!	Dead Until Dark is definitely a different type of vampire novel.  Personally, I'm not sure what type of category it fits into.  You see it's a combination of horror, mystery, romance, and comedy.  Yes, you read that line right.  It's a combination of all the above.  Sookie Stackhouse (that name grows on you) is a waitress at the local bar.  Though not unattractive, Sookie doesn't date much.  The locals consider her \\"slow.\\"  Sookie isn't slow.  According to her, she has a disability.  Her disability is she can read people's minds and that has a tendency to make them uneasy around her.  Sookie has spent most of her life erecting mental barriers.  Barriers that let her to block out what others are thinking.  It is the only thing that allows her to keep her sanity.  Then one night, a vampire comes into the bar.  Sookie is delighted because she can't read his thoughts.  This gives Sookie someone she can be around without expending vast amounts of energy to protect herself, someone whom she feels she can relax around.<br />I love the scene where Sookie saves the vampire's life at the first of the book and they introduced themselves to each other.  The scene goes something like this...\\"Bill,\\" he said.  I rocked onto my back with laughter.  \\"The vampire Bill.  I thought it might be Antoine, or Basil, or Langford!  Bill!\\" I hadn't laughed so hard in a long time.  With a sense of humor like this, you've got to love the heroine of this story.<br />Suddenly, the young women in this southern town are being murdered.  The signs point to vampire killings.  The town people, who are uneasy about the new law protecting vampires, begin to look at Bill in a different light.  One minute he acts like them, and then you see his scum vampire friends and realize these guys aren't human.<br />To fully appreciate this book, you have to read it for yourself.  I'm not kidding.  It's not quite like anything I've read before.  I've never read anything by Charlaine Harris before, but I'll definitely be looking for more books by her.	2001-07-03
US	50944626	RT0MM0MOV15J9	1551668130	583830013	The Widow	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Beware!	Aristide Pompasse is a renowned artist.  He paints stunning portraits and collects young mistresses as his muse.  It is harder to tell which is greater, his talent or his ego.  Pompasse has done many despicable things in his life, few things that he regrets.  The only thing he truly regrets, however, is letting his young wife, escape.  He regrets it not because of his deep love for her, but because he has never found anyone who can inspire him to create the way she did.  Pompasse dies and now Charlie Thomas, his widow, must come home to close his estates and face her own ghosts.<br />Charlie married Pompasse when she was seventeen to his sixty something.  He'd been everything to her.  He was her father, protector, someone who needed her.  He provided the one thing she craved the most.  A home and stability she had never had.  Five years later after being immortalized in a series of paintings, Charlie realized Pompasse owned her body and her soul.  It was time to leave and try to find the person she was.<br />Returning is as hard as Charlie thought it would be.  Even though Pompasse is dead, he stills controls and manipulates the lives of people around him.  Charlie has to contend with the malicious behavior of Gia, the mistress that took her place.  Also in the picture is Connor Maguire, a journalist who was once respectable, but now burnt out and working for a tabloid.  Maguire is posing as an insurance investigator trying to find the goods to write an expose on Pompasse.<br />There were several things I liked about this book.  Most notably was the relationship between Charlie and Maguire.  But, there were several things I did not like.  I personally found the character of Pompasse repulsive which is probably the way the author intended.  I had trouble dealing with the fact Pompasse; a man in his seventies usually had mistresses around the age of seventeen.  The second thing I had trouble with was the fact that Charlie was engaged to man twice her age.  I mean youget rid of a controlling manipulative husband three times your age then get engaged to someone twice your age?  Yes, I understand the author was trying to show a pattern, but it was still repulsive to me.<br />I guess my final thoughts are if you want something different, this book definitely fits the bill.  Yes, it is intriguing in way.  Maguire starts out as slime and become likeable as a leading man, Charlie works through emotional problems and becomes a likeable leading lady.  For me, however, I found the thought of Pompasse and his young mistresses repulsive enough that it took away from the book.  Read at your own risk.	2001-07-03
US	50944626	R72GT33NOJX8C	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Magical Powers and Curses, Oh My!	Three Sisters Island is cursed.  The only way the curse can be broken is by the descendants of the Three Sisters, witches who settled on the island back in the 1600s.  Two are living on the island and the third is about to come home.<br />Nell Channing is running away from her past.  Something is drawing her to Three Sisters Island.  Nell feels she has finally found a safe place to set down roots.  She walks into a job at Café Book just when owner Mia Devlin loses her cook.  Nell takes the job and begins to gain self-esteem that has been lacking in her life.  She starts a catering business on the side, begins to find love with the sheriff, and realizes she has some magical powers.<br />Mia Devlin has magical powers.  She embraces what she can do and lives peacefully with what she is.  Mia is a beautiful woman with style and grace.  She seems to have it all-but doesn't.  The only place Mia has ever really failed has been in her personal life.  She takes Nell under her wing, knowing deep inside that Nell is the third \\"sister\\" that is being brought home to lift the curse.<br />Ripley Todd is the deputy sheriff.  She also has the power but refuses to acknowledge it.  In fact, she constantly fights with Mia over the use of magic.  Like Mia, she takes Nell under her wing, more so to make sure Nell doesn't hurt her brother Zack, the sheriff.<br />Let's face it, Nora Roberts doesn't write bad books.  While I loved the \\"Dream\\" and \\"Sea\\" trilogy, I can't say I love this new trilogy.   I can't put my finger on what is wrong.  The concept is good, I like most of the characters, but for some reason I don't think it is one that I will read over and over unless books two and three really pick up.  Don' t get me wrong, you can't miss with Nora Roberts' books, this is worth reading, just don't expect it to be in the same caliber as the \\"Dream\\" and \\"Sea\\" trilogies.	2001-06-19
US	50944626	R38H7DUAI202WX	0553800949	899995514	Final Target	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Final Target Hits the Spot	It was a bit confusing reading the reviews on this book.  It seems either you really like it or you were disappointed in it.  I fall into the first category.<br />Cassie Andreas, the young daughter of the president of the United States watches with unspeakable horror as the secret service agents and her beloved nanny are gunned down in front of her.  Knowing she is about to be taken by the terrorists, she pleads with the magical statue, the Wind Dancer, to take her away.  Before she can be kidnapped, Michael Travis, a man known only for his underworld connections burst upon the scene and saves Cassie.  While Cassie may be alive physically, she has retreat from the horrors of what she witnessed into a silent world.  <br />Melissa Riley goes home to Virginia to see her sister, Dr. Jessica Riley.  It seems Melissa is having horrifying dreams and needs the security of her sister's love.  You see, Melissa laid in a coma for six years after witnessing the horrendous death of her parents.  Melissa truly believes it was her sister's love that pulled her through.  Jessica is now taking care of a new patient in a coma.  That patient is Cassie Andreas.  For unexplainable reasons, Melissa is able to make contact with Cassie during the child's horrific nightmares.  Both Jessica and Melissa know they most pull Cassie back before she is forever lost.  The key seems to be the mysterious Michael Travis.  He is the only one who can calm Cassie during one of her many nightmares.<br />I though Final Target by Iris Johansen was a wonderful romantic suspense novel.  Yes, I agree with the other reviewers that this book lacks the level of suspense that has been present in Ms. Johansen's previous books and there isn't as much romance.  But for some reason, this book pulled me in and wouldn't let go.  I loved the characters and the storyline.<br />My only regret is about Galen.  Those of you who have read Ms. Johansen's previous book will recognize him from The Search.  He is such an engaging character.  Please give him his own storyline!	2001-06-17
US	50944626	R2MB11KQMOYS8I	0441007813	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Edward's Story At Last!	I had never heard of the Anita Blake series until a month ago when it became came up on the Amazon discussion boards-romance section.  To fellow reviewers JP and Joss, thank you for letting me know about this fascinating series, I'm sure my eye doctor thanks you also since I have killed my eyes reading all nine books in two weeks.<br />     Obsidian Butterfly is the 9th book featuring Anita Blake, vampire executioner and animator.  Edward, the mysterious assassinator who has made several appearances in previous books, gets his own story, and what a story it is!  Edward calls on a favor owed to him by Anita.  No questions asked, Anita goes to his aid and finds a side of Edward she didn't know existed.  Side one is the cold-blooded killer she knows, but side two is Edward's second identity as a bounty hunter who is engaged to be married to a widow with two children.  <br />       There is something terrorizing people, it skins its victims and takes parts of the bodies.  Those who are lucky, die from this assault.  Those who are unlucky, end up in the hospital in horrible shock and pain.  Edward calls in favors to help him find out what it is and to destroy it before it kills many more.<br />     Thrown into this mess, are two other assassinators who owe Edward favors.  Apparently people don't refuse to repay Edward the favors they owe him, not if they want to live.  One is called Olaf, and frankly, he scared the daylights out of me.  He is truly one sick individual who takes enjoyment from terrorizing and brutalizing people.  As the way things stand, I'm sure we will be seeing Olaf again.<br />     While I was fascinated by this story, part of me was disappointed we didn't see the other two main characters play a larger part in the story.  Let's face it, there aren't many compelling characters as Jean-Claude, master vampire and Richard the Alpha wolf.  Final word, don't expect this story to follow the former books.  Laurell K. Hamilton takes us out of the dark underworld of vampires and werewolves and shows us that evil exists on the outside.	2001-06-11
US	50944626	R33VKB0AZ4IQ3L	0441002935	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	The Title Says It ALL!	Welcome to exotic world of Anita Blake, vampire executor.  In this fourth book, we find Anita with a little time on her hands since business tends to fall off during the Christmas season.  Funny, people aren't as interested in raising the dead while they're celebrating.  Anita is in the beginning stages of her relationship with Richard, that cute junior high science teacher who just happens to be a lycanthrope and still avoiding the seductive master vampire (my favorite) Jean-Claude.<br />Things should be slow-right?  Wrong!  First off she has to deal with a jealous, female rival for Jean-Claude's affections.  Gretchen, is a female vampire who is determine to be the only lady in Jean-Claude's life.  Gretchen's view on competition?  Easy, just kill them.  Only Jean-Claude has forbidden it.  Gretchen decides to do as she pleases, and she pleases to kill Anita.  Next we have someone who is killing shape shifters.  The local police think it's a bear, but Anita knows enough about the supernatural to say otherwise.  Then we have Richard trying to hide a growing internal conflict with the lycanthropes.  It seems Richard is next in line to lead the pack, but to do so he must challenge the current leader and kill him.  Richard doesn't want to do this, but faces being killed himself.  Last we have Raina, the seductive lycanthrope and Gabriel, the sadist lycanthrope, who are making porn films featuring members of their pack.  Who cares that some of their films just happen to turn into snuff films?<br />What's a girl to do?  If you're Anita Blake, you set out to deal with jealous vampire girlfriends, try to make the man in your life see he shouldn't keep secrets from you, and help the police find who is murdering innocent people.  If you haven't read Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series, find book one, get started, and be sure to read them order.  As someone who doesn't normally read this genre of writing, I was fascinated enough to buy and read all nine books in a two weekspan (thanks to fellow reviewers JP and Joss).  One word of warning, this series seduces you.  I don't think many will be able to read the first book without wanting all of them!	2001-06-11
US	50944626	R1AIW13CAM35I0	0396062857	905766939	This woman wanted, (A Red badge novel of suspense)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Outdated by Today's Standards	This is a trip down memory lane for me.  Last weekend I was at my public library to work with a student.  Roaming the books waiting, I ran across Rae Foley.  I used to read Rae Foley when I was in high school and couldn't resist checking out some of her books.<br />This Woman Wanted is a tightly written suspense book about a woman hiding out from the police.  Somehow she has allowed her husband of less than a year talk her in to withholding information about a crime committed by his best friend.  Helen Gates is not cut out for running from the law.  She wants a home and her husband.  Even worse is the fact she is suspected in the murder of her husband.  What Helen knows and the police doesn't is her husband has appeared to disappeared after a violent argument with her, but it isn't murder.  He has also gone underground hiding.  The only thing that keeps her going is the fact she gets an occasional glimpse of her husband every few months.<br />Helen begins to notice a man following her.  Is he a friend or foe?  Suddenly everyone is not who they appear to be.  Things begin to happen and Helen seriously begins to doubt that she can survive by herself in her nomadic existence.<br />I wish I could say I was as intrigued and fascinated by Rae Foley's writing as much as I was twenty-five years ago, but I can't.  This story was published in 1971 and as you can imagine, it is somewhat dated.  For example, it talks about using a typewriter.  I can't imagine life without a computer.  Another example is marijuana bust that seems tame compared to today's standards.  While the story is well written and suspenseful, I kept feeling I was in a time warp.  I guess going down memory lanes proves things don't always get better with age.	2001-05-25
US	50944626	R2231OW7XBIBZH	0743405951	571244133	Sweet Success (Pocket Star Books Romance)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Sweet Success is a Sweet Little Story	Sweet Success is one little sweet story.  It's one of those books where you just feel good after reading it.  Allison \\"Ali\\" Thomas is turning thirty.  She is a free spirit who wants to make the world a better place by feeding them chocolate.  Ali owns her own business, is the daughter of one of the world's most beautiful actresses, and has a tendency to take in any stray, animal or human.<br />     Matt Baker is a man hiding his past.  He wanders into Santa Magdelana and ends up working as a handy man.  One of his first jobs is to help Ali remodel her shop.  Now Matt wants nothing more than for the world to leave him alone.  What he doesn't bargain for is Ali's inborn instinct to take care of anything that appears to be wounded.  If she's not tempting him with chocolate, she's tempting him with her warmth and understanding.<br />     Sweet Success is just what it appears to be.  I have to admit I almost lost interest the first part of the story.  I thought it was going to be another one of those \\"poor tortured hero\\" stories where the \\"free spirited heroine\\" charms him out of his misery and they live happily ever after.  Wrong!  Susan Mallery has written a good story with fabulous secondary characters.  While most of the reviews I've seen really like the character of Ali's mom and her pet pig, I found myself liking Ali's stepbrother Rick.  If you want a story that will make you feel satisfied and content when you finish it, Sweet Success if for you.	2001-05-25
US	50944626	R37VF59VPP3S9U	1551668084	63200195	Storm Warning	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Storm Warning--Don't Take Shelter!	The back of the book reads:  \\"The phone rings.  She picks up, but no one is there.  She hears music and the sound of thunder.  She hangs up in a trance.  Minutes later, she is dead.\\"   Sounds good intriguing, doesn't it?  Seven little girls were placed in a gifted class at an exclusive school.  They only went one hour a week.  Years later, they begin to die by suicide, one by one until only one is left.<br />     Ginny Shapiro is the one alive and she's running for her life.  Thanks to Sister Mary Teresa, the sixth victim, she knows someone is after her and it's all connected to a phone call.  Regardless of what happens, she can't answer the phone.  FBI agent Sullivan Dean, a friend of Sister Mary Teresa, tracks her down.  Sister Mary Teresa had tried to contact Sullivan.  He wasn't available so she sent him all the information she had found out about the other five victims, the same little girls who were in her gifted class, but he received the information too late.  Now in memory of his friend, he is bound and determined to find Ginny and protect her from the same fate.<br />     This book had the promise of being a great romantic suspense thriller; yet it fell flat on its face.  The author, Dinah McCall tried to incorporate suspense and romance into her plot.  She should have stuck with one and left the other alone.  The book starts out full of suspense.  I was immediately drawn into the story.  However, when Ms. McCall started incorporating the romance angle, the whole story fell flat.  It is almost like she had to write so many pages for publications.  While I could see the point of the story about the doctor's family, I fail to see the need for the plot concerning the fishing camp.  To me it took away from the plausibility of the plot.<br />     Final opinion, Storm Warning is ok for a lazy afternoon read.  You can put it down and come back to it.  While the story isn't horrible, it's not so great that you can't bear to be away from it without knowing the ending.  If I could do it over, while I would still read the book, I think I would have been better off borrowing it from a friend or picking it up at a used books store.	2001-05-20
US	50944626	RUGEJ9TXTKH68	0515130923	862934849	Dawn in Eclipse Bay	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good Story--but not Great!	I fell in love with Eclipse Bay last summer.  It was so nice to see Jayne Ann Krentz revert back to her old style of great one-liners and that bad boy hero she does so well.  Like many I eagerly awaited the follow-up book in this series.  Did I enjoy it?  Yes!  Is it as good as the first one?  No!  <br />     Dawn in Eclipse Bay follows the story of Lillian Harte and Gabe Madison.  Many of you will remember, there has been a family feud for years.  The people of Eclipse Bay live to see the fireworks explode when the two families collide.  This time Gabe Madison has decided to find a wife.  As the owner and CEO of one of the largest corporations around, he decides to seek out a wife just like he does business.  To find the right person, he goes to his now sister-in-law, Lillian Harte and her matchmaking service.  Gabe is to be Lillian's last client.  She is ready to close down business and finally pursue her dream of being an artist.  Gabe turns out to be the client from hell finding fault with everyone Lillian sets him up with.<br />     Both return to Eclipse Bay for different reasons and begin an uneasy relationship.  Then the families decide to get involve and the fireworks begin.  Gabe is a great leading man.  You see him begin to reveal sides that have been closed up for years.  Lillian wasn't my idea of a great leading lady, though.  I almost formed the opinion she was letting herself go through the motions instead of taking charge of her life.  It was nice to see some recurring characters, but their storyline was almost like a second thought.<br />     Dawn in Eclipse Bay isn't as good as Eclipse Bay, but it certainly filled my needs as a fan of Jayne Ann Krentz.  I'll be around looking out for book 3 when it comes out.	2001-05-05
US	50944626	RKIOH6MA37YPS	0380810492	2160421	He Could Be the One	Books	3	12	14	N	N	What Happened?	I have always enjoyed every book by Elizabeth Bevarly because each book she writes is unique and let's face it; she has different style that sets her apart from other authors.  So what happened?  For some reason, He Could Be the One, reads like a million other romance books I've read over the years.  The concept of the book sounded good, but the story never reached out and engulfed me like her books have in the past.<br />       Eve Van Dormer is the beautiful twin everyone remembers.  In high school she had the hots for Wyatt Culver.  She all but throws herself at his feet on prom night.  Instead of taking advantage of her offer, Wyatt walks away without a word.  Eve, the one everyone thought would be on top of the world and come out ahead, makes some poor choices that change the course of her life.  Fast-forward several years--Eve is determined to take her life back starting by attending her class reunion.<br />      Simone Van Dormer, Eve's twin, was the girl no one noticed.  She also had big plans on the night of her prom.  She throws herself at the boy of her dreams but has different consequences to face.  Like Eve, she is determined to go to her class reunion and face down her demons.<br />     Wyatt Culver and Julian Varga, private detectives and body guards hired by millionaire Luther Van Dormer to protect his two prized possessions.  Luther had taken his daughters and left in the middle of the night after the prom because of a threat to himself and his girls.  He knows he can't stop them from returning to their hometown or class reunion, but he is bound and determine to send them with the best protection he can.<br />     The two main characters Eve and Wyatt did nothing for me.  I could have cared less about their story.  Eve seemed wimpy and Wyatt came off as an overgrown kid who never grew up.  However, on the other side, I really enjoyed the story about Simone and Julian.  I really wish the book had been about them.  Each has a secret about their past that is hard for them to face.  Each has gone on to make something out of their lives.<br />     I don't know what went wrong with this book.  It's not bad, but it's not up to Ms. Bevarly usual standards.  Look at it this way, if you don't start this book with the high expectations that it is a book by Elizabeth Bevarly, it will probably be a passable romance book.  But, if you start out expecting the same standards associated with Ms. Bevarly's previous novels, you will probably end up disappointed like I did.	2001-05-04
US	50944626	R16JSPBORAAJE2	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Fast Women--Fast Reading!	It's amazing how Jennifer Crusie can write book after book that reaches out and pulls you into a fascinating world of off beat characters.  In Fast Women, Crusie introduces three women, all going through some type of personal crisis.  It starts out with Nell, a woman who worked by her husband and helped build his business and career from the ground up.  Just when their child is grown and the business successful beyond expectations-you got it-he dumps her and ends up marrying a younger woman.  Nell has spent 18 months struggling to get her act back together.  Now she ready to resume her life with a new job.  Unfortunately she picks a detective agency to apply at recommended by her former brother-in-law.  Her interview and what can happen is hilarious.  Her boss is Gabe, a strong dynamic force that wants things done his way, not Nell's way.  The battle begins.<br />     Next up is Suze.  She's the child bride who married a man twenty something years older than she.  You would think being wife number three or four, you would have a clue this man wasn't the type to be faithful.  But no, Suze hasn't a clue because her man has stayed with her after she turned thirty, unlike with the previous wives, so it must be true love.   After fourteen years of marriage, she's still being treated like the child bride.  Suze wants to be independent and make her own money, but hasn't the faintest idea how to go about it since hubby has always taken care of her.<br />     The last friend is Margie.  She's the rich daughter who had witnessed the traumatic death of her mother.  Margie's husband skipped out on her after embezzling over a million dollars from daddy's firm.   Margie hasn't seen or heard from hubby in over seven years, yet she refuses to declare him legally dead.  Why?  She might just have to make some decisions in her life-something she's not good at.<br />     While Fast Women doesn't sizzle like Crusie's last novel, Welcome to Temptation, I found it to be just as good.  Thethree female characters make the perfect group.  If you haven't met one of them, you've heard of someone just like them.  There's romance, sex, and mystery in this novel.  Give it a read, it's worth the time.	2001-05-02
US	50944626	R2Y291ARHR6CON	0553801880	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Not the Best, Nor the Worst	Lavinia Lake needs Tobias March likes she needs bad luck.  Not only did Tobias destroy her shop in Rome (trying to save her life, or so he claims), now he continues to plague her back in England.  Someone is trying to blackmail Lavinia by claiming he has a journal with details about her shop in Rome-that it was a place of criminal activity.  This won't do because Lavinia is trying to give her niece a season to find a rich husband and can't possibly afford to have any hint of scandal attached to her name.  When she arrives to confront the blackmailer and claim the journal she finds him dead.  Frantically searching the blackmailer's quarters she soon discovers she can't find the journal but unexpectedly find Tobias March.  Together they form an uneasy partnership and set out to find the journal.     <br /> As stated by other reviewers, the characters were never fully developed in this story.  I don't think I ever knew Lavinia.  The character of Tobias was better developed and I could picture him as a confirmed bachelor with little time for society and its pretentious manners.  Both characters spent a lot of time bickering back and forth.  While others found this irritating, I thought it was funny.  This may have been due to the fact I didn't have time to read the book straight through and read it over a two week period. <br />     Ms. Quick did introduce a different type of plot development that captured my interest.  I don't think I've ever read anything quite like it before.  I don't know where Ms. Quick intends to go with these two characters.  It's my understanding they will appear in her next two books, sort of like a series.  All I can say is I'll give the next one a try in hopes they are more fully developed and have Ms. Quick's trademark dialogue and plot.	2001-04-16
US	50944626	R3U10ZYBAIXFKE	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	4	2	2	N	N	If Only I Could Change Places with Someone!	Apparently I'm one of the few who have never read anything by Jane Heller before.  I saw this book in hardback and decided to wait for paperback, by doing this I missed out on a good story.<br />Nancy Stern is a preschool teacher who thinks she leads a boring life.  She's divorced, seldom dates, and generally spends her nights at home reading and going out with other single friends.  She has an everyday life, no excitement-that is until the other Nancy Stern moves into her building.  The other Nancy Stern has it all.  She single, plenty of money, tons of interesting men in her life, and she interviews celebrities while traveling all over the world. <br />Mix-ups begin to happen mail delivered to the wrong person, flowers, and strange men calling wanting dates.  At first it's fun, then it isn't.  Envy slowly turns to jealously and the Nancy Stern who thinks she has a boring life decides to accept a blind date calling for the other Nancy Stern.  Then the fun begins.<br />This probably sounds confusing, but it isn't.  The book is quite comical in parts, suspenseful in others, but mainly just fun.  If you've ever wished you could change places with someone, even for a day, you might want to read this.	2001-04-03
US	50944626	R11DE6WXKSZKFY	0821767984	452733413	The Secret	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining!	This must be my month for reading books by authors I'm not familiar with.  This is my first book by Kat Martin and I have to say I enjoyed it.<br />Kate Rollins is shot one night in a drive by shooting.  While being operated on, she dies on the table and begins her journey to heaven.  She sees her mother, her fourth grade teacher, even a coworker who died unexpectedly the previous year.  She also sees a woman who looks familiar who seems to be trying to tell her something.  Then her journey stops and Kate is brought back to life.<br />The experience haunts Kate and she decides to make changes in her life.  She quits her job, quits her marriage, and takes her son off to Montana to live in a house left to her by her grandmother.  It turns out the woman in heaven that was trying to tell her something was her grandmother, a woman Kate had never met.<br />Kate reopens her grandmother's café and quickly settles into a new life.  Into her life comes Chance McLain.  He's the embodiment of a cowboy.  Tall, good-looking, and owns the largest ranch around.  A romance quickly flares up.  Meanwhile, a mining corporation is illegally dumping chemicals that are killing the wildlife.  Threats begin and Kate finds her life in danger and her romance gone flat.<br />I enjoyed this book.  It was entertaining and one that I will pass on to my friends.  If you're looking for romantic suspense, this is a good one.	2001-04-03
US	50944626	R16YFEFSQ7IN6V	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Vintage Roberts	The Villa is Nora Roberts at her best.  It is a sweeping saga of a family that created and nurtured one of the most power wine dynasty that spans from Italy to the United States.  <br />     Tereza Giambelli, the matriarch has decided to merge her internationally known winery company with that of her husband, Eli MacMillian.  She feels it is time to breathe new life into the dynasty and make sure it will live on with the younger generation.  To accomplish this, she wants her key players to know the business from every aspect.  Each member is to learn different parts of the business other than the area he or she excels in.  To make sure everything goes accordingly to plan, she brings in a new CEO from their biggest competitor, David Cutter, to oversee the transition.  David has the tough job of making sure everyone goes with the plan.  Unfortunately, not everyone wants this to succeed.<br />     Sophia Giambelli, Tereza's granddaughter, is one of the sharpest members of the family.  She is one independent, smart woman who succeeds quite well in a man's world.  She pairs up with Tyler MacMillian, Eli's grandson.  While Sophia is a savvy businesswoman, Tyler is a man of the land.  He cares nothing about advertisement and packaging, but growing the grapes that make up his precious wine.  They each find themselves learning a side of the business they could very well do without. Then disaster strikes in the form of murder and product tampering and the Giambelli-MacMillan families find themselves banding together to save not only their business, but also their reputations.<br />     There is so much happening in this story that it is impossible to review without giving away too much of the plot.  One of the things that impressed me most was the cast of characters.  You have the tough, feisty, independent heroine, Sophie, and the tough, silent and plainspoken hero, Tyler, who butt heads while being sexually attracted to each other.  Then there is Pilar (one of my favorite characters) who is ending an emotionally abusive marriage to Sophie's father, a man who has had more mistresses or affairs than anyone can keep up with including his new, young trophy wife, Rene.  Rene is one of those tough, self-serving women we all love to hate.  Thrown into the mixture is David Cutter, a divorce man trying to raise two teenagers, Theo the son who has gotten into some trouble and Mandy, the child wise beyond her years with a brain to match. <br />          This novel is engrossing.  It flat out holds your interest and attention throughout the story.  It is one of those books you don't want to put down.  However, due to its large cast of characters I would advise you to start out reading slowly so you can figure out who everyone is.  Believe me, they all stick around for the story in some way or another.<br />     One word of caution to Ms. Roberts' fans, don't expect this to be as chilling, dark, and suspenseful as Carolina Moon-it's not.  However, in my opinion it is just as fascinating.  I would say Ms. Roberts has taken her writing to a new level, but let's face it there isn't any other level for Ms. Roberts to go to.  She is one of the finest writers of our times.	2001-04-03
US	50944626	R30GMH99NLHW30	1551665972	634158151	East Of Peculiar (Hannah Garvey Mysteries #1)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Fun! Fun! Fun!	I managed to buy the second book in this installment first.  Let me tell you, as soon as I finished South of Sanity I was on Amazon ordering East of Peculiar.  I thoroughly enjoyed both books.  Suzann Ledbetter has a great series going and I am eagerly waiting for the third one due later this year.<br />East of Peculiar is one of the funniest stories I've read in a long time.  Hannah Gravey suffers a midlife crisis.  She ups and quits her high power job with advertising and takes over as manager of an exclusive retirement village thinking how hard can it be to watch over a bunch of retired people.  Well, apparently it can be pretty hard when a brutal murder happens and the over the hill gang decides to help the police.  Hannah has her hands full and a series of events happen to make her job that much harder.  Then she meets the man of her dreams who just happens to be seven years younger and the sheriff to boot.<br />As I stated I read the second book first, then the first book.  Either way it still works.  East of Peculiar introduces all the characters and gives background information about a wonderful group of characters.  If you want something light hearted and entertaining, pick up this book and then the second one.  I really think you will be as hooked as I've become.	2001-04-03
US	50944626	RADF40MMMQO7N	1551667975	813080786	South Of Sanity (Hannah Garvey Mysteries #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wacky, but Loveable!	I'm not real sure what I just read, however, it was fun while the ride lasted.  South of Sanity might have been better named South of Insanity.  There is a wonderful cast of eccentric characters that keeps this story moving.  Apparently this is the second book out of two with recurring characters.  Now I've got to track down the first book and wait until December 2001 for the third.<br />     Hannah Garvey has given up a high-powered job with an advertising agency to take over as resident manager for an exclusive retirement community.  You might think a book featuring secondary characters from a retirement community as dull, but these characters would give any gang of teenagers a run for their money on the amount of trouble they can stir up, mostly just by trying to be helpful.  Sheriff David Hendrick has the hots for Hannah.  They are very aware of each other and very attracted to each other.  They finally, after a few mishaps, get together for their first date.  Naturally nothing goes right and Hannah ends up going with the Sheriff to answer a police call.  The call goes bad and the Sheriff ends up suspended, possibly on trial for murder.  The gang, from the retirement community, decides to help matters along by investigating and clearing the way for Hannah and the Sheriff to get it together.<br />     This was one funny book.  There's romance, suspense, and a lot of comic relief.  I kept wondering what in the world I had bought to read-I know now.  I bought a terrific book with a wonderful cast of characters.	2001-03-21
US	50944626	R26D0PXMU5B3OP	0451409884	672356967	Dying to Have Her	Books	2	18	19	N	N	Save Your Money!	Once again Ms. Graham takes us to the fictional soap opera, Valentine Valley that she wrote about in her previous novel.  A new costar is mysterious murder.  Clues disappear; accidents begin to happen without reason.  The target seems to be Serena McCormack, the temptress everyone loves to hate on the soap opera.  In order to protect their star, management hires Liam Murphy.  Murphy was once a police officer, but now is a private detective.  He knows how to protect Serena since they were once lovers.  Everyone begins to fall under suspicion, from the stars to writers to directors, even the people who handle advertisement.          I enjoyed Ms. Graham previous novel about the fictional soap opera Valentine Valley.  I thought it was campy and just sounded like a soap opera.  However, I did not enjoy Dying to Have Her.  In fact, I almost didn't finish it and I always try to finish a book, hoping it will get better.  Instead of having characters that I could like and care for, I found myself irritated with them.  The characters seemed overly dramatic and just plain silly.  The plot was weak and didn't keep me in suspense.  As much as I like Ms. Graham's contemporaries, I do wish I had read the reviews on this one before I bought it.  I could have saved myself some money.	2001-03-12
US	50944626	R1MAHT820VMBVA	0425178579	127101612	Betrayal in Death	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thank Goodness Eve and Roarke Are Back!	Anyone who has followed this series since the beginning probably will agree that Eve and Roarke are the couple of the century.  She is the rough edge cop who still can't believe someone could love her for herself and he is that sexy billionaire, who has found his soul mate, even if he constantly has to keep reminding her of that.<br />In Betrayal in Death, Eve is on the trail of assassin who has been in business for a good quarter of a century.  This man is so good that no one has been able to capture him.  This time, he has made his first mistake.  His victims are people that Roarke cares about.  No one and I mean no one, threatens Eve's man and gets away with it.  To add insult to injury, the FBI decides Eve and her force of NYPD's finest aren't capable of catching this killer.  Big mistake on their part.  Eve sets out to bring down the killer and protect her man (who we all know doesn't need protecting) while beating the FBI at their own game.<br />This book has a lot of things going for it.  Old friends from past books either make appearances or are heard from, though not enough in my opinion.  Two secondary characters become more fully developed and get their own little story line.  Roarke's past once again comes into play as we learn more about him and see his protective instincts kick in full force.  However, for some reason, this book started off slowly for me.   Don't get me wrong, it's good.  For some reason, I don't think it's the same caliber of the other books in the series.  But you know what?  It sure didn't stop me from enjoying the book or eagerly anticipating the next one..	2001-03-08
US	50944626	R60IM9ZAC8H5O	1551667940	299429989	Bone Cold	Books	5	40	41	N	N	What a Book!	June 1978, thirteen-year-old Harlow Anastasia Grail and her six-year-old friend are kidnapped and held for ransom.  Harlow manages to escape but not before the kidnapper cuts off her right pinkie in retaliation for her parents calling in the FBI.  Fast forward to January 2001, Harlow has assumed a new identity and career as Anna North, a suspense writer.  Anna is a reserved person who stills suffers nightmares.  She doesn't trust or make friends easily, but she is content with her new life.  Content that is until the letters begin.  Someone, who knows Anna well, has sent messages to all her friends revealing her true identity.  Anna begins to fear for her safety and that of her \\"little sister\\", a troubled teenager that Anna sponsors.  Not knowing whom to trust, Anna turns to two men.  Dr. Benjamin Walker, a psychologist who specializes in the effect of childhood trauma on adult personality and behavior wants to use Anna and her past for a book he is working on.  Quentin Malone, a detective who works homicide, who doesn't seem to believe Anna is in any serious trouble.  Anna finds herself attracted to both men, yet unable to trust either.<br />What a book!  Erica Spindler has woven a fascinating story with so many twists and turns in the plot; I can't even begin to review all of them without giving away vital information that would spoil the book for you.  Ms. Spindler has outdone herself this time.  If I had any complaints, I felt like the heroine was a little wimpy at times.  But, I was so engrossed in the story, it was just a minor annoyance.  If you like romantic suspense, this book is for you!	2001-03-06
US	50944626	R15MKYBHZUJTUL	0399147055	825697461	The Fourth Angel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Stunning Debut Novel	I do not normally by hardback books by first time authors.  But I have to say I am so glad I took the chance because The Fourth Angel is a stunning debut novel by Suzanne Chazin.  It is loaded with chilling scenes and plot twisters that keep you guessing who is behind some of the worst fires to ever hit New York City.<br />Georgia Skehan is a rookie fire marshal.  She is struggling to carve out her niche in a male orient field.  Added to her struggle is old baggage following her around on whether she was responsible for the death of a fellow firefighter.  Georgia is called to the scene of a deliberate fire that was so intense and severe that no one survived or even had a chance of making it out alive.  An old friend in the department tips her off that this fire wasn't the first of its kind in recent months.  In fact, there having been letters sent by someone calling himself the Fourth Angel sprouting Bible verses from Revelations justifying his actions.  Protecting her friend's identity, she tries to tell the chief fire marshal her theories.  However, the \\"good old boys' club\\" isn't interested in what a woman thinks and tries to ridicule her to the point she will drop the matter.  But thanks to the top man, the fire commissioner, overhearing the conversation Georgia is assigned to the investigating team headed by Mac Marenko.  Marenko tries to dissuade Georgia by assigning her the dirty jobs.  Georgia still manages to uncover some impressive leads and soon Marenko begins to believe Georgia just might be on to something.  <br />This book opens with one of the most frightening scenes I've ever read.  You know what is coming, yet you keeping hoping you're wrong.  There is no way you can read this book without developing a liking for the characters.  Each in their own way, whether right or wrong, is trying to do what they think is for the good of the department.  In Georgia, we get a strong single mom who comes from a family of firefighters.  She is trying to do the jobshe loves while fighting discrimination from men who think women have no place fighting fires.  Mac Marenko starts out as a complete jerk until we see the human side of him develop.  There is sexual tension between the two that makes you hope both characters will be around in the next book.  The villain, what can I say about the villain?  He is pure evil and I hope I don't have nightmares about him tonight.<br /> Ms. Chazin's next novel featuring Georgia Skehan is supposed to be out in 2002.  Man, I hate having to wait that long after discovering this author.  I am definitely hooked!	2001-03-04
US	50944626	R159LTQ8P2FXB9	0671785915	399661757	Voices Carry	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Neat Ending	Genna Snow and John Mancini are FBI agents who share a past.  They were once deeply in love until John was emotionally destroyed by a case he was working on.  He left Genna without a word until he could get his life back together.  When he felt ready to resume their relationship, Genna opted not to take him back due to issues from her past that she had never really dealt with.  Now they are assigned to work on a case together.  Twelve women are missing.  Twelve ordinary women who have families and jobs and no known enemies.  There doesn't seem to be a pattern, the crimes don't happen in the same city, let alone state.  Nothing makes sense.  <br />     I was thrilled when I found out these characters were from Ms. Steward's previous novel, Brown Eyed Girl, a novel I really enjoyed.  However, I didn't feel satisfied with this story.  The book is label romantic suspense.  There is more suspense than romance, which is fine.  The killer's identity is revealed early on and that wasn't a problem since we see Genna and John struggle to make the connections.  For some reason, this story just didn't jell for me.  Maybe there was too much thrown into the plot, or maybe I just wanted more romance with Genna and John.  While there are wonderful secondary characters, some of the subplots have a tendency to drag the story down.  I will give Ms. Stewart credit by saying the ending has a neat twist to it.	2001-02-26
US	50944626	R1JCQ1JNIY9R5A	0553578685	441587737	The Third Victim: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touchy Subject Matter but Extraodinary Plot!	A small, quiet town, Bakersville, Oregon takes care of their own.  It's a small community where everyone knows everyone and looks out for each other.  But this small town is about to be torn apart when a school shooting claims the lives of one popular teacher and two small girls.  Lives are destroyed and Bakersville will never be the same again.<br />     Officer Rainie Connor receives the call to get to the school.  She is made primary since the sheriff has two children at the school.  When she arrives, she walks into mass chaos.  Without experience in this kind of crime, she does the best she can gathering evidence.  However, due to circumstance beyond her control, she inadvertently contaminates the crime scene.  Into the scene enters Abe Sanders, an investigator for the state.  Sanders is a perfectionist who thinks he has the case wrapped up regardless of what Rainie feels.  The FBI enters the picture by sending Pierce Quincy.  Quincy is a behavioral specialist who is running a study on school shootings.  He quickly picks up thread that both Rainie and Abe have missed.  Threads that show everything are not as it appears.  <br />           Don't let the subject matter put you off this book.  Yes, it is hard to read because it concerns school shootings.  But the story is so much more than school shootings.  Lisa Gardner has truly taken a plot and put so many twists and surprises in it that even the most hard core suspense reader will have trouble figuring out just exactly who is guilty, what is happening, and how it all connects.  The characters are fully developed with complex characteristics.  Ms. Gardner definitely did her homework on the subject matter and as a result has an extraordinary story that will keep you glued to the story line.	2001-02-26
US	50944626	R35KGUMR0PVICO	0380975726	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Great Dialogue, Wonderful Characters	To me, a sign of a good book is one where you start reading it, get interrupted and can't get back to it for almost two weeks, and find the characters still leap off the pages and grab you back into the story.  That's what happened to me and I had no trouble picking up where I left off.<br />     Susan Elizabeth Phillips' latest book revisits old favorites and finishes out her saga about the Chicago Stars football team.  Molly Somerville has finally grown up and come into her own.  The super smart child that has always craved love, affection, and approval has finally figured out what to do with her life.  She has given away her millions, created a series of children books, and writes articles for teens that makes her life livable, or so she thinks.  Kevin Tucker is the star quarterback who appears to have it all, at least on the outside.  Each continuously do stupid or dangerous things, looking for something to make them compete, even when they don't realize they are missing something.<br />     Combine this with a wonderful cast of secondary characters the includes an over the hill sex kitten from Hollywood, a famous reclusive painter, young newlyweds that can't keep their hands off each other or from giving out free sexual advice, and Phoebe.  We all remember Phoebe, the sexpot who set the business world in pro football on its heels with her brains.<br />     The dialogue is wonderful in this book.  It's sharp, witty, and refreshing. The story has plenty of unpredictable moments in it as Molly and Kevin both have to confront their lives and take charge.  I must admit I hated the little narrative at the beginning of each chapter from Molly's books until I caught how they played into the story.  Then it became funny. <br />     This was an enjoyable book all around.  For those of you who haven't read the others in the Chicago Stars series, you will be fine jumping into this story.  If nothing else, it will probably make you go back and find the other stories.   <br/>     Ms. Phillips, unless I'm mistaken, only publishes one book a year.  Please write faster!  I love your books and hate waiting another year to get my hands on your next book.	2001-02-18
US	50944626	R8OE0RWMO5P3O	0451203550	80217578	Dark Side of Dawn	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Chilling Tale of Stalking!	Merline Lovelace has written a fascinating novel of power, wealth, obsessive love, and stalking that will keep you tuned in to a fascinating story.  Air Force Captain Joanna West witnesses a horrifying car crash as she is flying the Secretary of State and entourage to a meeting.  Disobeying the orders of the Secret Service, she puts the chopper down and manages to pull the car crash victim free just before the car explodes.  To everyone's disbelief, the victim turns out to be Alexander Taylor.  Taylor is the grandson of a former president.  He is every woman's dream of the ideal man.  He's rich, charming, and good looking.  He showers Joanna with gifts and attention until she finds herself falling under his spell.<br />Deke Elliot is furious with himself.  A pilot with Joanna, he has kept his distance, waiting for Joanna to notice his interest.  Unfortunately, he has waited too long.  He instinctively knows something isn't right with Taylor.  However, all he can do is wait and be there when Joanna needs him.  That day arrives when Joanna realizes something is deadly wrong with Taylor.  She tries to end the relationship only to find that Taylor never, ever lets go of what he considers &quot;his.&quot;<br />Lovelace has written a chilling novel about the tangle lives of three people.  This book has it all, well-developed characters, suspense, murder, and danger.  If I had to criticize anything, I felt it bogged down in the middle just a little bit.  All in all, this is one great read.	2001-01-29
US	50944626	R2SJKCI3DY0N6E	0399146695	40814111	Lost and Found	Books	3	21	29	N	Y	Leaves a lot to be desired!	I know I'm going to get bashed by every JAK fan out there, but hang on before you start.  Let me start off by saying I'm a die-hard fan of JAK.  The woman has never really written a bad book.  However, let's face it, Lost and Found isn't all that great.  After reading Eclipse Bay by Ms. Krentz this summer, I just knew she was back on track with her trade mark sassy dialogue, strong female character, and that bad boy hero she does so well.  That isn't what I got when I read Lost and Found.<br />Cady Briggs is an expert at what she does.  She identifies art and antiques.  She is part of well known and respect family that owns one of the leading art galleries in the world.  Doing a little independent work, she hooks up with Mark Easton who runs a low profile investigating company on the web.  This sets up the beginning of the book with a little flirtation involving email and phone calls.<br />Then Cady's aunt dies and leaves her controlling interest in the family's business, Chatelaine's.  Cady and Mark pretend to be engaged to determine why Cady's aunt backed out of a merger the entire family was in support of just before her death.<br />There are several different plots in this story that all lead back to the aunt's death.  I don't know why the first three-fourths of the book didn't work.  In fact, it took me two weeks to finish this book.  However, I am glad I finished the book, because the last one-fourth of the book is pure Krentz.  The characters came alive, the dialogue picked up, and I never picked up on who the real murder was even after skimming the ending before I finished the book.  <br />I would love to give a glowing review of this book just because I love JAK's writing, but it isn't going to happen.  If you have read Krentz throughout her career, don't expect the same caliber as her earlier writings.	2001-01-29
US	50944626	R3BS9Y0TDWS93T	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Get Ready to be Entertained!	Somehow I missed Kiss and Tell by Cherry Adair when it was published in September.  Let me tell you, it was my lost.  I'm glad I discovered this book.  It is one of those books that pulled you into the story and wouldn't let go.  I ought to know since I didn't start reading it until 9:00 p. m. and stayed up until 1:00 a. m. to finish it.<br />Marnie Wright is the over protected daughter of a millionaire.  She heads for the hills to spend the weekend at her decease grandmother's cottage before it is torn down.  She is ready to reevaluate her shelter existence, decide what she wants out of life, and then go for it.  You have to understand that Marnie is no little innocent miss who can't maker her own decisions.  It's just the opposite.  Marnie has had severe health problems that resulted in surgery.  Her mother died when she was young leaving her with her father and four brothers.  Sometimes when living in a male oriented household it is just easier to go with the flow than to fight five over protected males. <br />Jake Dolan is a spy fighting to save his own life.  Not only are the bad guys after him, someone in his own agency is out to get him.  Jake is wants no one around especially the short, blond bombshell that confuses his peaceful existence with her illogical sense of logic.<br />I loved this book.  It has great, snappy dialogue.  The interaction between the hero and heroine is comical, dramatic, and sexy at times.  Into this story, Ms. Adair has thrown a Great Dane named Duchess and a secret underground lair stock with every kind of imaginable weapon and technology.<br />I will admit, at times the plot is a little unbelievable.   But you know what?  I didn't care.  This book kept me entertained from beginning to end.  If you like romantic suspense, find a copy of this book and get ready to be entertained.	2001-01-17
US	50944626	R2DFOJM95T2S6O	0446608726	236551713	The You I Never Knew	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Fasten Your Seatbelt!	The You I Never Knew is fascinating book by Susan Wiggs.  Don't make the mistake I made and think it's just another &quot;I'm not going to tell you that you're the father of my child&quot; book.  Ms. Wiggs has taken a cast of characters, the past and present, and written a book that will keep you tuned in from page one.<br />     Michelle Turner fell in love with Sam McPhee.  She was just a kid, the daughter a famous movie star Gavin Slade.  He was the son of an alcoholic, a kid with big dreams, no money, and no future.  They fell in love, she became pregnant, and he skipped town not knowing about the baby.  Fast forward seventeen years, their lives are about to clash, each not having seen the other for seventeen long years.<br />     Michelle is returning to her hometown to donate a kidney to her father who is seriously ill.  With her is her sixteen-year-old son, Cody.  Michelle has made a success of her life without any help from the father of her son or her own father who turned his back on her when she told him she was pregnant.  Cody is a rebellious kid who is testing the boundaries.  He has gotten in with a bad crowd and is making poor choices.  Lives are about to change forever as the three come to grip with the past.<br />     There is no way to adequately describe this book.  Susan Wiggs has written an enthralling tale.  I was particularly captivated with the scenes involving Sam and Cody.  For those of you who have teenagers going through rough times, you'll recognize the tough love approach used in this novel.  <br />     This was a great book.  My compliments to Susan Wiggs for writing such a fascinating story.  Someone told me this was Ms. Wiggs' breakthrough novel from historicals to contemporaries.  If this is the case, what a breakthrough it is!	2001-01-15
US	50944626	R25YP8DT9DAQHM	0380815524	649257409	Just the Way You Are	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Title Says It All!	Picture two young girls orphaned at a young age.  Tessa, the oldest is the beauty of the family, the one who seems to have it all.  Alli, the youngest, always seems to have her nose pushed to the window, wanting to fit in and have what Tessa possess. Alli constantly fights to keep up with her sister.  The one thing Tessa has that Alli wants is the love of Sam, the boy next door.  Alli struggles to find ways to make Sam notice her.  Years pass, Tessa and Sam stay together in their own world until one night Tessa makes the choice of accepting a modeling assignment instead of coming home on Christmas break to be with Sam.  Sam gets drunk, Alli sees her chance and makes her move.  She ends up pregnant and Sam marries her out of responsibility to the baby.  <br />Fast-forward ten years.  Alli has left Sam.  She is tired of fighting for Sam's love.  Never, in ten years of marriage, has Sam told her that he loves her.  She realizes Sam has stayed with her because of their daughter, Megan.  Alli finally realizes you can't force someone to love you, and she wants to be loved for herself.  Then tragedy strikes.  Her grandmother, Phoebe, the strong woman who raised Alli and Tessa suffers a massive stroke.  Tessa returns home after being gone for ten years.  Neither woman wants to see the other and rehash old wounds.  Now three people have to confront the past and decide what the future holds for them.<br />Just the Way You Are by Barbara Freethy has received glowing  reviews on this site.  While I enjoyed the book, I found myself becoming disgusted with Tessa and Alli at times for their selfishness and quite frankly felt they needed a good kick in the seat of their pants.  Then I found myself caught up in this beautiful story of two people trying to save a marriage that started for all the wrong reasons, but was now worth saving for all the right reasons.<br />This story proves you can't hold on to the past, you have to move forward.  It also makes a strong point for acceptingsomeone &quot;just the way you are.&quot;	2001-01-02
US	50944626	R1B0WOYHWCC5X9	0515129712	175484378	On Thin Ice	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thin Ice Melts as the Story Heats Up!	On Thin Ice is a romantic suspense novel by Lynn Erickson and it is beyond me why I haven't read anything by this author before.  Ms. Erickson takes an almost unbelievable plot and makes a terrific story out of it.<br />Ellie Kramer is a chameleon.  On the surface she is a law student taking a year off from school and working as an upcoming law clerk in the district attorney's office.  She is pretty, smart, and has the uncanny ability to make herself fit into whatever situation she finds herself in at the moment.  Perhaps this comes from the years of practice.  You see, Ellie has spent years concealing her identity and past.  Ellie has spent the last twelve years working toward her goal in life--to find out who framed her father for a brutal crime that ultimately cost him his life in prison and made an old woman out of her mother before her time.  Now it is all finally coming together.  Ellie has crafted a plan that will allow her access to the records of her father's trial.  She then sets out to ultimately find out everything she can about the two rookie cops that helped convict her father.  Ellie is convinced that one of the two rookies is the man who actually committed the crime.  Is it Michael Callas, a brooding detective who is so emotionally stunted that his coworkers call him &quot;Robocop&quot; or is it his former partner, Finn Rasmussen who is now a security expert who moves in the finest circles?  <br />While I truly enjoyed this book, I found it hard to believe in some parts.  For example, how could a law student set events into motion to find a killer when the police couldn't?  At the same time, I found myself rooting for the heroine even while thinking &quot;she is doing something so dangerous and stupid--why doesn't someone stop her&quot;?  All in all, this is a good book and I will be looking for Ms. Erickson's previous books.	2000-12-11
US	50944626	R217VWRVLUXH01	055357695X	300066811	Out of the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	Please Continue the Shadow Series!	Kay Hooper ends the Shadows series with an explosive book.  Out of the Shadows tells Noah Bishop's story that has been hinted at in the previous two stories--and oh, what a story it is.  This book will reach out and pull you into the story--and the ending?  Get ready to be shocked,surprised, and entralled.  <br />Sheriff Mirands Knight is reunited with her former lover, Noah Bishop, who heads an unusal branch of the FBI.  Because of old wounds and hurts fromt the past, Miranda is reluctant to accept Noah's help.  But, her small town in Tennessee is being devastated by a vivious killer who is taking the town's teenagers and savagely butchering them.  There are no clues, no way to contain stop this beast.  <br />Noah is joined by two members of his team who also possess abilities of the unknown.  Together they team up with Miranda to battle the deadly evil that has invaded the town and is stiking its innocent people.<br />Ms. Hooper outdid herself on this one.  Just like the first book in this trilogy, there are numberous characters that contribute to the story.  You find yourself caring, hurting, and rooting for them.  There is some comical relief in this book which keeps it from being too dark.  I sincerely hope Ms. Hooper starts another trilogy with emphasis on the unknown.  I'll be the first in line to buy!<br />Get this book, find some place to read uninterrupted, and get ready for the ride of your life.  If you haven't read the first two in this series, you're in for a treat!<br />If anyone knows of books that are similar in subject matter and great to read, please drop me a line.  This was fascinating.	2000-11-11
US	50944626	R3QUKH4BENLACT	0553576925	869801684	Hiding in the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Will the Real Kay Hooper Please Stand Up?	Will the real Kay Hooper please stand up?  I have read just about every book this woman has written--yet, her last two books are so different, they have just blown me away!  Ms. Hooper has outdone herself and brought her writing to a whole new dimension that I, for one, find fascinating beyond belief.<br />Hiding in the Shadows is Ms. Hooper's second installment of the Shadows' books.  Once again, we see Noah Bishop, the FBI profiler, in a story that deals with the unknown.  He has come to help his good friend, Noah MacGregor, look for Dinah Leighton.  Dinah is an investigating reporter who is hot on the trail of something so big that she is not about to reveal anything until she has all the facts.  Then suddenly she disappears without a trace.  Mixed into this situation is Faith Parker, a friend of Dinah whom no one seems to know anything about.  Faith is lying in the hospital in a deep coma of which she will not awaken from according to the medical experts.  Dinah disappears and Faith awakens.  Coincidence?<br />I thought Stealing Shadows, the first book in this series was the best I've read this year.  Hiding in the Shadows, while not as intense as the first, tells a fascinating story of how souls and lives become tangled together.  It is in its own rights, a great book with characters you find yourself caring about.  I, for one, am eagerly anticipating the final book in this series.  Hopefully, Noah's story will finally be revealed.  If not, Ms. Hooper better be planning some more books in this series.<br />Kay Hooper, wherever you are, please continue this style of writing.  Your last two books have earned a spot on the same shelf with J. D. Robb's books for being new and inventive with a story line and characters that I intend to follow as long as you keep writing.	2000-10-07
US	50944626	R3UWC5B6EZJD9B	0425176304	618962370	Judgment in Death	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Will I Ever Get Enough of these Characters?	What is left to say about Judgment in Death?  Nothing except I am one of  millions hooked on this series.  How J. D. Robb can consistently crank out  these books is beyond me!  Has there ever been a more fascinating couple  other than Eve and Roake?<br />In every series there is usually one or two  books that don't live up to expectations.  This is what--book tweleve or  thirteen?  They just keep getting better and better.<br />I for one, would  love to see more scenes with just Eve and Roake.  You know there has to be  more to their relationship that hasn't been revealed yet.  It is murder  knowing I have to wait for the next installment of this series, especially  since there wasn't an excerpt in the back of this one.<br />All I can say,  READ and ENJOY!	2000-09-19
US	50944626	R1OAQCMJAVIQOE	1551665719	195838110	Shadows At Sunset	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Characters that fascinate you!	Picture a crumbling mansion that was once the home of a movie star who  killed herself then her lover whose spirits now roam the mansion.  Take  three people: one strong sister who protects the home and family, one  brother who is dealing with sexual issues while craving his father's  approval, and the sister that fights  alcohol, drug, and sex addition who  is too weak to protect herself.  Into this mixture, add one rich and  powerful father who doesn't give a damn about anything except money and his  right hand man who oozes evil and sex appeal if you can believe that  combination.  When you put all this together, you have Shadows at Sunset by  Anne Stuart. <br />This book fascinated me.  Ms. Stuart did a wonderful job  creating characters that you either hate or love.  Jilly is the strong  sister who will do anything to protect her brother and sister; yet enables  them to stay weak without realizing what she is doing.  Coltrane is the  right hand man who protects the father.  He is one sexy dude.  Coltrane is  the essential bad boy who oozes sex appeal and evil.  He is determined to  destroy Jilly's father no matter who he hurts in the process.  After all, a  man without a soul can do anything.  What Coltrane doesn't plan on is the  sexual attraction he develops for Jilly after he connives a way to move  into the mansion.  The big question is whether revenge is all he needs to  make his life complete.<br />I wasn't sure what to expect when I bought  Shadows at Sunset.  What I got was a fascinating book with wonderful  complex characters.  Coltrane is that one bad boy that every woman wants to  change but knows she'll get burnt if she tries.  This book definitely goes  on my keeper shelf and will be read over and over!	2000-09-13
US	50944626	R3CASEFOILSIZ3	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Let the Fun Begin!	It's nice to have Jayne Castle return to the writing scene.  It's been too  long since she has written a futuristic romance and I, for one, have missed  her style of writing.<br />Lydia Smith is a licensed Para-archaeologist who  unfortunately made contact with the wrong type of alien in a tomb she was  investigating.  No one will work with her now.  Everyone knows once your  senses are fried, you become mentally unstable.  Even the leading experts  think she'll crack under pressure.  Trying to put her career back on track,  Lydia has taken a part-time job at Shrimpton's House of Ancient Horrors  (don't you just love that name).  While meeting with what she hopes will be  a new client, Emmet Smith, Lydia is horrified to discover the body of an  acquaintance named Chester who is known to be a small time crook.   Expecting her new client to fade away, she is surprised when he sticks  around and offers her job.  Excitement turns into disgust when she finds  out he sees her in the same light as Chester--just another small time crook  that he wants to use to his advantage.  Outraged, but desperately needing  the job, Lydia sets out to prove to not only Emmet, but to the community  that she is is not burnt out and has not stooped down to the criminal  element.  Determined to get her reputation back, Lydia goes off to solve a  case that will not only restore her reputation, but will make her see some  of her so-called friends in a new light.  <br />Jayne Castle has worked her  magic and brought back the same inventive story line that she has used  previously.  One word of caution for those who have not read anything by  Ms. Castle--it's a little hard to get into the terminology when you first  start reading this book if you haven't read any of her previous books.  But  hey, stick it out for a couple of chapters and you'll have a fun story with  excitement, romance, and the unknown.  In fact, read her three previous  books and you'll really understand why everyone is glad to have Jayne  Castle writing in this sub-genre again.	2000-09-10
US	50944626	R68UU6D7JPRC4	0553575538	65222879	Stealing Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Unbelievable!	Kay Hooper has always been an excellent author, but she has outdone  herself in Stealing Shadows.  Ms. Hooper is apparently making her move from  romance to thriller in an exciting book that will keep you glued to an  explosive story that involves an intriguing cast of characters.<br />Psychic  Cassie Neill moves to a small, secluded town in North Carolina from L.A.  after she misreads the mind of a serial killer that results in the death of  an innocent child.  Blaming herself, she wants to isolated herself from the  world and never be called upon to experience the terror she feels when  using her psychic ability to enter the mind of a killer.  Her aunt, who had  spent the last twenty years hiding from the world because of her own  psychic abilities has left her a house in the isolated countryside upon her  death.  Luck goes against Cassie as she begins to experience visions of a  madman who is about to begin a killing spree.  Cassie, knowing what  skeptism is instored for her, goes to the local sheriff and prosecutor  trying to warn them of what is ahead.  Expressing doubt and disbelief, they  are stunned to find out Cassie is right.  There is a serial killer amid  their small town stalking and brutally murdering women.<br />Kay Hooper has  written one of the best novels I've read this year--if not the best.  It  amazes me how she has taken such a large, complex cast of characters,  intertwined their lives, and still maintained the high level of terror and  suspence in the plot.  The suspense in this book never lets up.  I'm glad  there are two more novels folloing this one.  I can't wait to see what Ms.  Hooper has instored for her readers.<br />Grab this book, isolate yourself for  a couple of hours, and get ready for one of the most exciting stories  you'll ever read.	2000-09-10
US	50944626	R3J74OCUH977GO	0821766767	442807288	Trust No One (Zebra Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Suspense, mystery, romance--what more could you ask for?	Take an intense Navy Seals officer who lives for danger and combined him  the the heir to a prestigious wine-producing dynasty who is suave and  sophisticated.  What do you get?  Identical twins separated at birth who  have no knowledge of each other.<br />     Brody Hawke had no idea the letter  he had received from a stranger claiming to be his father would change his  life in more ways than one.  The letter from Giancarlo Hawke implores his  son to come home because &quot;...my enemies are closing in.  Trust in no  one.&quot;  Enclosed is a picture that is identical to Brody except for one  small detail.  Brody has a small scar over his eye.  Giving in to  curiosity, Brody decides to go meet the father he has never known  existed.<br />     Meryl Sawer has done an excellent job in creating a  romantic suspense with complex human relationships.  The difference beween  Brody and his identical twin brother Elliot is as stark as black and white.   Each man is a product of the environment he has been brought up in.  In  the equation, Ms. Sawyer throws in Tori Anderson who is engaged to stable  Elliot, but attracted to dangerous Brody.<br />     I have to admit I was a  little leery of this story line when I bought No More Lies.  After all, the  identical twins separated at birth plot has been done numerous times.   However, in this case it works.  I hated for the story to end.  Ms. Sawyer  did such a fantastic job of developing the characters that I felt there was  still more to tell about each of them.  I sincerely hope there is a sequel  to this book.  I want more.	2000-09-03
US	50944626	R36J328EX0BKNY	0843947470	584673614	High Intensity	Books	2	8	9	N	N	High Intensity Falls Flat!	I'm probably going to get bashed by Dara Joy's fans, but this book is pretty bad.  I loved High Energy, the first book in this series.  The lead  characters Tyberius Augustus Evans and Zanita Masterson sizzled in the  first book and sizzle out in the second book.  Ms. Joy spent around half of  High Intensity recapping what had happened in High Energy.  As wacky as the  lead characters are, even they couldn't support such a lame plot in High  Intensity.  The only redeeming quality about this book is some new scenes  between Tyber and Zanita and the reappearance of some wonderful secondary  characters from High Energy.<br />Will I buy the third book in this series if  there is one?  Probably in hopes it recaptures the spirit of the first  book.  Dara Joy has created a captivating couple in Tyber and Zanita--but  please--give them a better plot!	2000-08-20
US	50944626	R3FAHQ9XJE8OEW	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent SuspenseThriller--Lousy Romantic Suspense!	What happens when an internal affairs cop, the son of a legend, hangs  himself?  What happens when the two homicide cops investigating the case  don't believe it's suicide despite pressure from their superiors to close  the case?  Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska, the hard working detectives from Ms.  Hoag's previous novel Ashes to Ashes, set out trying to solve one of the  most nerve racking cases of their careers.  Even though all the clues point  to suicide, Sam can't accept it.  Andy's father, Iron Mike, was his mentor  many years ago before he was left a paraplegic during a tragic shooting.  Iron Mike was a tough cop who has refused to accept the fact his beloved  son was coming out of the closet.  Now he can't cope with the death of his  child.<br />This novel has it all--murder, corrpution, complex character  development, and gritty dialogue.  What it doesn't have is Ms. Hoag's usual  trademark of romantic suspense.  Die-hard Hoag fans will be disappointed in  this story, just as I was, that this element is missing.  However, those  who stick with the story (as I almost didn't) will find themselves caring  about Sam and Nikki as they work together to solve the crime, yet go their  own separate ways in doing so.<br />I really have mixed emotions about this  book.  On one hand I was disappointed it wasn't a romantic suspense.  I was  under the misconception since two of the secondary characters from her  previous book now had their own story it would follow the same lines as  Ashes to Ashes.  I was wrong.  On the other hand, once I got into the  story, I have to say it is one well-written book.  The suspense keeps  building and building.  Every time I thought I knew what was going on,  something new happened that put a different spin on things.<br />So, this is  my recommendation--if you want action and spell binding suspense that keeps  you guessing, this is the book for you.  However, if you're look for  romantic suspense--be ready to be disappointed.	2000-08-06
US	50944626	R23TBN6I9D7IRO	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Hot! Hot! Hot!	Linda Howard has created a masterpiece in her new novel, Mr. Perfect.  You might as well plan on kicking back with uninterrupted time to read this book straight through.  The characters are wonderful, the dialogue sizzles,  and the sex is hot!<br />Jaine Bright and her three friends from work meet  every Friday night for drinks, dinner, and girl talk, which we all know  from experience usually turns into man bashing.  During the course of  dinner, they start discussing the perfect man and list the characteristics  they think Mr. Perfect should have.  As you can imagine, the list starts  out seriously, then ends up discussing phyiscal endowments.  Their list  inadvertently becomes public knowledge.  First in the company's newsletter,  then on a website, and finally the media gets hold of it.  At first the  women try to keep their identity secret so no one will know who is behind  &quot;The List&quot; as it has become known.  When their coworkers figure  out who is behind &quot;The List&quot;, their lives become chaotic--women  applaud them, men feel threatened.  They decide to go public hoping all the  media blitz will dies down.  Little do they know they have offended someone  who takes a murderous view of Mr. Perfect.<br />The dialogue and sexual  tension in this book between Jaine and her neighbor, Sam Donovan, is  unbelievable.  The snappy one liners had me cracking up throughout the  entire book.  Both Jaine and Sam are strong characters who strike sparks  off each other.  The bond between the four women will touch your  heart.<br />The beginning of this book threw me off when I started reading it.   The opening prologue is eeries and gave me the creeps.  Then with the  first chapter, it's almost like you're reading a comedy for the first half  of the book--then the suspense starts in the second half.  I don't know how  Ms. Howard managed to combine comedy and suspense, but believe me, she did  a fantastic job of it.	2000-07-26
US	50944626	R165TSUAUGK8UA	0399146164	501935513	Riptide	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Wow!	Riptide by Catherine Coulter is a book that packs everything into it.  I was captivated and exhausted by the time I finished it.  There are so many plots and twists to this story; it is almost impossible to review  it.<br />Becca Matlock is a speechwriter for the governor of New York.  She is  being stalked and terrorized by an evil man who identifies himself as  &quot;her boyfriend.&quot;  There is no one to turn to.  The police and her  coworkers refuse to believe her.  Her father is dead and her mother is in a  coma dying of cancer.  Becca flees to a small town thinking to outrun her  stalker.  There she meets up with her old college pal, Tyler McBride and  his stepson Sam.  Despite changing her appearance, she knows someone is  still watching her.  She sees a man in the woods watching her and decides  to confront him in an explosive scene.  That man is Adam Carruthers.  He  tells Becca to think of him as her &quot;guardian angel.&quot;  He refuses  to tell Becca who has sent him to watch over her.<br />Listen up, Ladies!   Adam is the man to die for.  He is smart, sexy, and funny.  Even in his  &quot;macho mood&quot; you have to adore him.  I absolutely loved this  character.  Becca is no slouch herself.  She is strong and capable of  looking out for herself.  This gal has brains and isn't afraid to use them.   Maybe not wisely at times, but at least she doesn't depend on the big,  strong man to protect her.  The icing on the cake is the return of Dillon  and Sherlock featured in Ms. Coulter's last three books.<br />I gave this book  a four because even though it is a dynamite story, it is almost too much.   I felt exhausted when I finished it.  Like every book, there are parts that  are not believable, but it is still a great read.  I also want to add my  two cents about the appearance of this book.  This book is huge with thick  paper.  It is really sharp looking and ought to last a lifetime.	2000-07-13
US	50944626	R3DQFIJQ3IVL7J	0671032992	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	3	66	80	N	Y	Expected Better	A murderer goes to confession asking for absolution for a crime he is going to commit. He chillingly describes how he tortured and killed his last victim.  He challenges the priest to notify the authorities.  The  priest refuses to knowing the he can't reveal what is said in confession.   The killer plays mind games with the priest letting him know he has already  selected his next victim.  This killing will be better, after all, practice  makes perfect.  The killer is convinced no one can stop him.  He wants a  challenge.  He tells the priest to call his FBI friend to come and take the  next victim into hiding.  The killer will either follow or look for a new  victim.  He describes his next victim in such terms that the priest is  shocked to realize it is his sister.<br />The priest, Tommy Madden, panics and  calls in his childhood friend to protect his sister.  Nick Buchanan belongs  to an elite division of the FBI.  He works in a specialized division called  the &quot;lost and found.&quot;  His talent is in tracking the most  difficult cases involving lost and abducted children.  He comes to his old  friend's aid by promising to take care of Laurant Madden.  Laurant Madden  takes matters into her own hands.  She refuses to hide and instead taunts  the killer into striking out at her.  The FBI agree with what she is doing  and provide around the clock protection for her.  There are several  secondary story lines that are interesting to go along with the plot.<br />I  have always admired Julie Garwood's writing style.  She generally has  strong, independent heroines and dashing, brooding heros.  I was excited to  see her switch over to suspense.  The synopsis I read had me hooked on this  book long before it came out.  In fact, this book was advertised as being  released in February, 2000, and was then pushed back.  This should tell you  how long I've waited for it.  Was it worth the wait?  No, not really.   <br />For some reason this story doesn't work.  It has its moments, some scary  and some funny, but didn't captivate me like I expected which is why I gave  it a 3.  Laurant is not a believable character.  She reminds me of those  wimpy heroines from earlier romance novels in the 70s and 80s.  Nick, who  should have been a strong presence as the tortured FBI agent who has seen  too much wasn't much better.  I did enjoy the secondary story line with  Father Tommy and Noah, the second FBI agent who helps Nick.<br />Read or buy  this book at your own risk.  When I see Ms. Garwood's name on a book, I  expect more.  I know it can't be easy switching styles of writng, but I  expected better.	2000-06-21
US	50944626	R1PXA45Z7ZCUPH	0451409159	913251643	Long, Lean, and Lethal	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Soap Opera Delight	Abby Sawyer was once a beloved actress who is now stricken with Parkinson Disease.  The medication she takes often clouds and confuses her mind to the point she can't separate fact from fantasy.  She is deathly afraid  someone is trying to kill her daughter, soap opera actress Jennifer  Connolly.  She calls on her stepson, ex-marine now actor, Conar Markham to  come home and protect Jennifer.  Trying to cover up the reason he has come  home, Conar accepts a part on the soap opera in which Jennifer appears.   Jennifer has always resented sharing her mother's affections with Conar and  doesn't want him anywhere near, especially starring on her soap opera and  making twice the money as the other actors.<br />Conar credits Abby for giving  him a direction in life and providing a home life for even after his father  and Abby divorced.  He comes home just as a series of grisly murders start  taking place.  Murders that seem to resemble scenes from famous movies.<br />I  spent Sunday afternoon reading this book.  It's entertaining but it also  has its flaws.  I really like the hero, Conar.  He is strong and protective  of those he loves.  He doesn't take flak from anyone.  However, I didn't  really care for the heroine, Jennifer.  I thought she was whiny to the  point it almost took away from the story.  The cast of characters in this  book is almost overwhelming.  I found myself having trouble keeping up with  who was whom.<br />This story does have one of the best endings as far as who  the bad guy is that I've read in a while.  This isn't the best by Ms.  Graham, nor is it the worse.  It's worth the money just to have an  entertaining story to read.	2000-06-12
US	50944626	R1JKVJ14ALTAHA	0671785885	980408671	Brown-Eyed Girl	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Great suspense, great leading characters!	Brown-eyed Girl by Mariah Stewart is one sweet little suspense novel and I regret that it took me so long to find it. The moral to that statement is order from Amazon and don't depend on your local bookstore.<br />Leah McDevitt  lost a sister, Melissa seven years earlier.  She disapeared without a trace  and the police suspected foul play but could never prove it since they  didn't have a body.  Leah makes an appearance on a t.v. show dealing with  survivors who have lost someone to crime.  During the show, she confirms  that the $50,000 reward is still open until she finds out what happens to  her sister.  Enter into the picture, Raymond Lambert, a convicted serial  killer about to be executed.  He offers information about Melissa if Leah  will pay the reward money to him.  Lambert has one vital piece of  information that convinces Leah that he knows what happened to Melissa.   Before Leah can transfer money into his account, he is killed on death row  by another inmate.  Not knowing where to turn, Leah contacts Ethan Sanger,  the author of a book about Lambert.  Sanger doesn't want to get involved.   Lambert had left his mark on Ethan years before.  Leah convinces him to  help not knowing their world is about to come crashing down around  them.<br />Brown-Eyed Girl is beautifully written and keeps your attention.  I  would have given this book a five except there were times that it was a  little too obvious what was coming.  However, this is one sharp book.  Read  it, you'll enjoy it.	2000-06-11
US	50944626	R1KT6VRSJDVEBH	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Little bit of comedy, little bit of drama	Elizabeth Bevarly packs a lot into her book, How to Trap a Tycoon.  It starts out as a comedy but also has an element of melodrama in it.<br />By day, Doresy MacGuiness is a soicology teaching assistant at a local  college.  She is also the author of a best selling guide on how to trap a  tycoon that is the rave among women.  Dorsey wrote the book under an assume  name based on her mother's past experiences and to provide her mother with  some retirement.  After all, trapping millionaires doesn't come with social  security benefits.  By night she works as a bartender at an exclusive men's  club compiling research on the difference between sexes.  While tending  bar, she meets Adam Darien, the publisher of an elitist men's magazine.   Sparks fly between them.  Adam has taken it personally that any woman would  dare write a book on how to trap men into marriage.  He feels he owes it to  his readers to expose the author as the fraud he feels she must be.  This  starts a madcap adventure as the plot of this story takes off.<br />One of the  reasons I gave this book a four is the second story line, which involves  one of Adam's writers for his magazine.  Lucas decides to take matters into  his own hands and conduct an experiment.  In order to be successful, he  needs the help of one of the bartenders who works with Dorsey.  With the  second story line, the book switches from comedy to melodrama which doesn't  seem to fit with the rest of the book and frankly drags it down.<br />This is  a fun book, maybe predictably in many ways, yet still fun.  I've read all  three books by the author and will be waiting for number four.  Ms. Bevarly  delivers a story with style.	2000-06-11
US	50944626	R3F1UEVSHV6G26	0553800914	996234195	The Search (Eve Duncan)	Books	5	86	88	N	N	If You Love Romantic Suspense--Read This Book Immediately!	There are some stories you just don't want to end.  The Search by Iris Johansen is one of those stories.  This book not only brings back all the characters from Ms. Johansen's last two novels but provides a story that  went way beyond my expectations of this book.<br />John Logan, that wonderful  millionaire who helped Eve Duncan search for the reamins of her murdered  daughter is suddenly slapped in the face with horrendous evil from his  past.  When one of his research facilities is blown up and a brilliant  scientist is kidnapped, Logan calls in Sarah Patrick and her golden  retriever, Monty.  Logan knows his only chance of rescuing the scientist  alive is through the special talents of Sarah and Monty.  He promises Sarah  that this is a one-time job and then he will never bother her or Monty  again.  However, what is suppose to be a one-time deal explodes as Logan  frantically tries to confront his past and save those in the present.<br />The  chemistry between Logan and Sarah sizzles.  The evil is enough to give even  hard core suspense readers chills up their spines.  There are no words to  adequately describe this novel and sensations it makes you feel.  This book  is fantastic.  I especially love the way Ms. Johansen not only shows the  communication between Sarah and Monty, but also gives Monty his own story  line that keeps the reader intrigued.  I would love for Ms. Johansen's next  novel to feature one of the secondary characters in the story named Galen.   He definitely sounds like a lead character that deserves his own  story.<br />Put out your hard-earned money for this novel.  It is well worth  the investment.	2000-06-08
US	50944626	RBRMZZT6VPP59	0515128015	862934849	Eclipse Bay	Books	5	65	69	N	Y	Welcome Back Jayne Ann Krentz	If you want a book you can kick back with that has snappy dialogue, great one liners, romance, and a little mystery, this is the book for you.  It is so nice to see Ms. Krentz go back to the style of writing that made her so  popular.  I sincerely wish this had been in hardback with all three stories  because I hate having to wait for the next two books to come out.<br />The  Hartes and Madisons have hated each other for generations.  Eight years  earlier, Hannah Harte had provided an alibi for bad boy (and oh what a bad  boy he is) Rafe Madison.  Rafe's main goal in life at that time was to not  end up in jail.  Fast foward eight years and the two have jointly inherited  a house from Hannah's aunt.  Each refuses to deal with the other so they  both end up back in Eclipse Bay.<br />I loved this book.  This is the type of  story Ms. Krentz is a pro at writing.  For many of you who have read all  her books, this will faintly remind you of Family Man complete with a dog  who has his own personality.  There will be many readers who will probably  say this book is the same formula Ms. Krentz has used for years.  But hey,  if it works this well, keep on using it!	2000-06-07
US	50944626	R19NCDQSMOWNEZ	0553578677	883049328	Legendary Lover	Books	1	3	7	N	N	This is a historical romance?	The classification on Legendary Lover says historical romance--imagine my surprise when I found myself reading soft porn.  I've never read anything by Susan Johnson nor heard of her.  The back of the book sounded like two  strong willed people getting ready to battle it out.  I was expecting great  dialogue and witty scenes between the characters.  What I got was, no story  line and lots of graphic sex.  I didn't care for this book and won't buy  anything else by the author.  If this is erotica, then call it erotica--not  historical romance.<br />On another note, did they really use the  &quot;f&quot; and &quot;c&quot; word back then?  If anyone knows when these  words came into existence let me know.	2000-05-25
US	50944626	R3G3DB9V7TGYLY	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Mixed Reviews--Mixed Emotions!	I've read the book and I've read the reviews by Sandra Creelman and Jo Manning.  Each lady made wonderful points in their reviews.  However, I have to side with Ms. Manning.<br />     The Burning Point is a comtemporary  romance, not a novel on the state of society.  It is a love story between  two people who shared a secret, divorced, then found their way back  together again.  Does it happen in real life?  I'm sure it does at times.   Spousal abuse is a difficult subject to deal with in any form.  If I had  picked this book up as an autobiography or biography, I probably would have  thought the main character Kate was nuts for going back into her situation.   But this is not a true story, I know when I picked up a comtemporary  romance, the main idea is for the hero and heroine to live happy ever  after.<br />     I'm not going to review the story, its been done by every  other reviewer.  I am going to put my two cents on this aspect of the  story.  I really think the book would have been better if the past has been  told first.  I had a hard time seeing Donovan as the man he is now, being  the abuser he was when he was younger.  It just didn't jive for me.  Also,  Kate's father was a control freak who couldn't accept aspects of his family  life.  He sounds just as much as an abuser as Donovan--maybe not physical,  but as an emotional abuser.<br />     Some will like this book, many will not.   Read it at your own discretion but don't turn it down just because of the  subject matter.	2000-05-23
US	50944626	RG0MYA2CUYM10	038080736X	946460613	Bride for a Night	Books	4	2	2	N	N	People Who Grow Up Live Happily Ever After!	A friend recommened this book as a light hearted way to escape a stress-filled week.  She was right.  It doesn't take brains to figure out the plot or ending, but it reads smooth and you find yourself liking the  the main and secondary characters.<br />     Cairo McKnight and Duncan Kincaid  married too young.  Both had led adventurous lives on archaeological tours.   After Cairo leaves to go to college and when Duncan feels she is old  enough, he appears on her doorstep and ask her to elope to Las Vegas.  They  have a passionate wedding night, then Duncan skips town for a new  archeological site.  Cairo files for an annullment before she realizes she  is pregnant.  Fastforward four years, Cairo is about to lose her business  and needs Duncan to headline a trip as the famous tour guide.  Duncan  refuses because he is on the trail of the find of his life, The  City of  Gold.  They rediscover their love and lust for one another but are ripped  apart when Duncan discovers he has a son the Cairo never got around to  mentioning. <br />     Both main characters are strong-willed, passionate  characters who charm you into liking them.  The secondary characters,  Duncan's father who is diabled in a car wreck, Phoebe, Cairo's aunt who has  helped her take care of her young son, and Dylan, the too bright and full  of energy four-year-old each have wonderful and funny side stories that  make up this book.  You can't go wrong reading this book for pleasure.<br />On  a side note, my hat is off to Ms. Berg for her use of a disabled person.   The dance scenes are not only wonderful, but romantic in their own right.    I am glad to see an author using a disability in such a positive way.	2000-05-22
US	50944626	RJTC9SBT9QD2Q	0446527017	276509900	Standoff	Books	1	59	65	N	N	Waste of time-Waste of money!	First off, I was disappointed the moment I received this book.  I didn't notice there was only 224 pages when I ordered.  I still don't know how they got 224, my book only has 217 not counting the blank and title pages.  I was expecting a hard hitting suspense packed book like Sandra Brown has  produced in the past.  What I got a little story that could have been  printed in paperback and saved me money.  It'll be a while before I put  money down on another hardback by Ms. Brown.<br />     The plot goes something  like this, Tiel McCoy is a reporter taking her first vacation in a while  when her editor informs her a newsbreaking story only three hundred miles  away.  Can she take the story?  Of course she agreeds and goes for it.   Supposedly a teenage couple are on the run from the girl's powerful father.   Stopping at a little store in the middle of nowhere to call her boss for  directions and an update, in walks the teenage couple who precede to rob  the store.  The girl, who has concealed her pregnacy for 9 months, goes  into active labor. This begins the standoff.  The FBI show up, one of the  hostage is a mysterious hunk by the name of &quot;Doc&quot; who helps  deliver the baby.  They negotiate and so on.<br />     This could have been a  great story.  Instead it is cheesy.  I read the book in 1 and 1/2 hours.   Not only is the book short, it has large print.  Trust me you could  probably read it in less time if you don't put it down to do other things.   It left no impact on me.  Personally I don't recommend this book to anyone  unless they are desperate.  Wait and borrow it from some poor fool (like  me) who has already bought it.  I don't even know if I'll pass it around to  my group of friends.	2000-04-30
US	50944626	R1WJEJUB159ZPT	0061030201	844953416	Disguised Blessing	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Blessing to have discovered this author!	I must exist on another planet because I have never read anything by Georgia Bockoven before today.  If her other books are anything like this one, then I have a treat waiting for me.      Disguised Blessing is a book  that keeps you wanting more and more.  Catherine's 15 year old daughter is  accidentally burned at a party.  She is taken to a burn center where she is  assigned a mentor by the name of Rick who is a captain in a fire  department.  Rick is a fantastic leading man.  We all know men like him.   He is truly a good man who does whatever it takes to make the world a  better place.  Meanwhile, Catherine is dumped by her fiance who can't  handle anything that doesn't fit into his perfect world revolving around  himself.  Lynda is a teenager who goes from having it all to learning to  cope when life deals her a cruel blow.      I expected light reading, what  I got was a wonderful story with characters that leave an impact on you.  I  would really love a continuation of these characters in another book.  How  about it Ms. Bockoven?	2000-04-17
US	50944626	R2ZCYRWZM6N7NZ	0553100874	270984394	Wicked Widow	Books	5	26	32	N	Y	Wicked Widow Indeed!	I'm not a fan of historicals; however, the title of Ms. Quick's latest release caught my eye several months ago so I ordered it.  I am so glad I did.  This is a delightful romp with wonderful characters and the sharp,  witty dialogue that has been missing from her last couple of books.   <br />Madeline Deveridge is known as the Wicked Widow.  They say she killed  her husband.  The gentlemen of society have placed wagers for the man who  can spend the night with her and live to tell about it.  Madeline is being  haunted by her late husband.  She enlists the aid of Artemis Hunt to help  her find him.  Artemis, like her late husband, is involved in Vanza, a  philosphy featured in past novels by Ms. Quick.  Artemis doesn't know how  Madeline has learned so many of his secrets, but he is determined to find  out.  Sparks fly between them and the story takes off.<br />This is one of the  best books by Ms. Quick in a long time.  If you love drama, great dialogue,  the characters that capture your interest, you will want to read this book!	2000-04-11
US	50944626	R1S6277ZIC9XJR	1551665514	745859365	All Fall Down (Mira)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fantastic Ending	I was skeptical of this book when I started reading it.  It seemed like the author was giving away too much of the plot at during the first half and letting you know the ending.  Wrong!  Erica Spindler does a knockout job in this suspense novel.  I thought I had it all figure out and was I  ever wrong.  I won't go into the plot since everyone else has done that.   Just take it from me, nothing is what it seems.  If you are looking for a  good read, this is the book for you.	2000-04-02
US	50944626	R19KCITEKFRXGJ	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Be Still My Beating Heart!	A water tower that resembles a sex organ, former con artists shooting a documentary that turns into a soft porn movie, hot sex, and murder--what  more could you cram into a novel?  Try a terrific, sexy hero, a strong  heroine, a  wonderful secondary cast of characters that we've all met at  some point in our lives, and a quaint little town.  Welcome to Temptation  by Jennifer Crusie packs it all into its 341 pages.  Not only is this a  sharp looking book, it lives up to its appearance.  Once I started this  book, I couldn't put it down.  This is a delightful romp that captivates  you from beginning until the end.  If you're looking for pure  entertainment--read this book.  One word of caution for those who want a  rating system on books, it's steamy not only for the sex but the language.   Frankly, Temptation wouldn't have been Temptation without both.	2000-03-15
US	50944626	R7ZDIIXD58WEL	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	How do you top this?	There isn't anything to say about this novel that hasn't already been said by the other reviewers concerning the storyline.  It is fantastic, I loved the characters-especially Faith.  My two cents about this novel is this, if you plan on reading this, isolate yourself somewhere so you can read it  straight through.  You'll only get frustrated if you're interrrupted.   Second, if you haven't read Carnal Innocence by Ms. Roberts go get it now.   She uses the same type of southern characters with twice as much suspense.   Carolina Moon is definitely a keeper, one you will find yourself reading  again just to see what you missed the first time.  The dialogue is snappy  with some great one-liners.  How Ms. Roberts keeps writing so many great  novels is beyond me.  She is truly one of the most creative writers I have  ever read.	2000-03-14
US	50944626	R1M8G4JJCS5XUG	1551665727	557254331	Lost (Mira)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Did I read the same book?	Being on spring break, I only have so much time to read and I want to read the best in what time I have.  I read the reveiws on this book and though, &quot;Oh wow, this has to be a great book!&quot;  That isn't how I would  characterize this book.  It's not bad, but frankly, it's not that great.   The plot goes something like this:  Six years ago a young woman was  brutally killed in her home.  Flash to the present, another young woman  disappears and a message is left on the school's walls &quot;I'm back!   666.&quot;  Sounds good.  The book doesn't play up on this to the point  that I'm fascinated with the suspense.  The heroine did have a different  twist with her occupation and dysfunctional family.  All in all, this book  is ok but it's nothing to get excited over.	2000-03-13
US	50944626	R23CJLSNYV2W4D	0440236185	93651929	Drive Me Wild	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Entertaining Fluff	I thought when I bought this book, it would be a &quot;fluff&quot; book, you know, one that you can start reading and set aside for a couple of days or week and pick right back up where you left off without missing anything.  I was right about the &quot;fluff&quot; part, but wrong about putting it  aside for a week.  I like this book.  It's simple, yet entertaining.   Hometown bad boy leaves and makes a success of his life.  Hometown good  girl is stuck at home with a controlling father.  She invites bad boy back  home to participate in a fundraising event.  He can't resist the temptation  to prove to the town what a success he has become.  Typical  &quot;fluff&quot; storyline.  But for some reason, you can't help but to  like the bad boy.  This is a wonderful story of two people trying to change  the direction of their lives.  The bad boy wants to be good, the good girl  wants to be bad for a change.  I gave the book a three because it is a  typical romance.  However, once this author learns to expand on her  characters and develop more of a storyline, I think we will see some  fantatic writing from her.  I know I will buy her next book just to see how  she develops as a writer.	2000-03-12
US	50944626	R24R9FU8WMFLXZ	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Eve and Roarke Live On!	Ms. Robb's last book, Loyalty in Death, was full of action and suspense.  In Witness in Death, she takes a different track and delivers an emotional impact.        Eve and Roarke have an evening out to see a play that  involves the legal system.  The detective in Eve can't just enjoy the play,  she tries to put all the clues together in the play to determine who is the  guilty party.  Just when she thinks she knows, she realizes the murder  scene in the play is for real.  She immediately takes charge of the crime  scene and sets out to solve the murder.        What makes this book so very  special is the emotional impact.  When you read this book, you are going to  see different sides to the main and secondary characters you have not seen  before.  When Eve is hit with the phrase &quot;the one true love of your  life&quot; there is a scene when Eve tries to be a good wife that would be  hysterical if you didn't realize how hard it was for her to express  herself.      You have to read this book.  I could try to tell you the plot  and subplots, but it would take forever since Ms. Robb's has weaved so many  emotional things into this book.  If you are a diehard J. D. Robb fan and  have followed Eve and Roarke through the series, you will not want to miss  this one.      Thank heavens, there is a synopsis of her upcoming book,  Judgment in Death, to tie you over until October.	2000-03-06
US	50944626	R19RVV50OOS9XK	038531972X	615754986	Ghost Moon	Books	4	31	32	N	Y	Heavy on character interactions--light on suspense!	When Karen Robards writes good (i.e. Heartbreaker) she writes good and when she writes bad (i.e. The Senator's Wife) she writes bad.  Ghost Moon, thankfully, is in between and a terrific read. I wanted to give it a five  due to the wonderful story that involves a complex family.  Olivia Morrison  has returned to her family after several years of supporting herself and  her eight-year-old daughter.  She, in a moment of teenage rebellion gave up  everything an affluent child could want, to run off with a cowboy who  eventually dumped her.  After struggling to make ends meet, she puts away  her pride and returns home at the request of her aunt. Upon her return, her  appearnace shocks her grandfather into a heart attack and the story takes  off as Olivia and her daughter, Sara, try to make their place in this huge  family.  There is good romance as Olivia and her step cousin, Seth,  struggle to regain the relationship they once had while Seth also copes  with his daughter from a previous marriage.      What kept me from giving  this book a five is the suspense component.  The book opens with one of the  scariest abduction scenes of a child that you can read.  It gave me chills.   Every so often through the book, another scene of a child's abduction is  repeated, each one just a little scarier.  What made me give the suspense a  three was the fact it is isolated and dragged out until the end of the  book, then Ms. Robards tries to tie it up within the last twenty pages.  By  the time I got there, I could not have cared in the least about the  suspense part.  Anyone who reads these types of books will have already  picked up on who is abducting the little girls.      By putting the romance  and suspense scores together, I came up with a four.  It's a good book and  you'll get your money's worth of entertainment out of it.	2000-02-20
US	50944626	R329VV05I26XBO	0380800616	693955960	Catching Kelly	Books	3	9	10	N	N	What Have I Just  Read?	I'm not sure what I've just read.  It was entertaining but I couldn't begin to tell you the plot line.  Sue Civil-Brown always writes in an offbeat manner. That's one of the reasons I buy her books.  However, this  is just a little to much when you can't really figure out the purpose of  the story.  I didn't care for the heroine or hero.  They didn't make an  impression on me.  I did enjoy the huge cast of secondary characters.  If  it hadn't been for them, I would have never finished this book.  This isn't  the best, neither is it the worst I've ever read.	2000-01-31
US	50944626	RTK225KU27YTC	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Can't Believe a Historical is This Good!	I rarely read historicals.  Yet I found myself buying this book even though I have a stack of comptemporay romance/suspense waiting to be read on my nightstand.  This was one of the best impulsive buys I have ever  made.  I have never read anything by Julia Quinn, but if this is how she  writes, I've just added a new author to my list of must read.        Simon  and Daphne are not your typical historical lead characters.  Yes Daphne is  this young thing during her second season looking for a husband and Simon  is a dashing rake avoiding marriage, but this is where the stereotype ends.  These characters take on personalities you will not soon forget as they  struggle to make things work.  It is impossible to describe this book fully  without giving away the plot.  Just let me say this, the dialogue is  wonderful and you will love these characters.  This book had me grinning  almost the entire time I read it.  That is how funny the dialogue reads.   The secondary characters are a bonus.  You have to read this book if you  are looking for something to lose yourself into for a few hours.  It is  worth it!	2000-01-23
US	50944626	R2HWWF4QC9RC6X	0399145788	127177599	Soft Focus	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Sparkling style and wit?	Don't get me wrong, I love Jayne Ann Krentz's books and probably have everyone she has ever written.  In fact I had this book on order months before it was released.  Every review I read on it talked about its  sparkling style and wit, superb dialogue, intricate suspense, steamy  passion.  So why do I feel let down over this book?  This is a comfortable  book by Ms. Krentz -a good read, but not one I'll have the desire to read  over and over.  While reading this book, I wanted to be swept off my feet  into another world, to lose myself in the story.  That didn't happen.  Will  I buy another book by Ms. Krentz - yes, she is one of those authors that  has never written a bad book.  However, unless you are desperate for  something to read, wait until this one comes out in paperback.	1999-12-28
US	50944626	R1XEG5SSIGMEH9	042517140X	776192522	Loyalty in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Eve and Roarke are back and better than ever!	As a reader who can't get enough, this long anticipated book was fantastic.  J. D. Robb keeps the reader in suspense from beginning to end.  The main and secondary characters leap off the pages at you and keep you  wanting more of their personal stories while you are frantically rooting  for them to stop the terrorists.  The only disappointing aspects of this  book is that it wasn't longer and there is no excerpt at the end of the  book to hold you over for the next installment of Eve and Roarke.	1999-10-10
