US	50947573	RS7U4T0SI0LID	0809231263	446869618	A Woman's Guide to Better Golf	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Good Reference Book for Beginners.	While nothing will replace a series of lessons from a competent teaching pro, this book can be a useful supplement for those of us who need to have something tangible to refer back to, in between lessons and rounds. The pictures are detailed and are particularly nice with regard to giving the reader a sequential view of different shots from different angles.  Some of the theory behind different shots is also presented, but not in an overly wordy or technical manner.  As a novice woman golfer, I refer to this book fairly frequently, as it has given me a better understanding of my particular swing mechanics without inundating me with a lot of physics.  I found the discourse on grip particularly helpful.  There are also some nice side-bar comments and tips sprinkled throughout the book, which can be useful.  I found this book to be well-written, without cute language and/or negative attitudes about male golfers.  Thanks, Judy.	2002-02-03
US	50947573	R1D2X0D6OY495L	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beauty Remakes the Beast	Zachary Bronson is a successful merchant and financier whose nouveau riche  ways and lack of aristocratic blood keep him from full acceptance in polite  English high society.  He approaches the problem as he does any other  challenge:  he analyzes the need, ascertains the solution, and determines  what he needs to acquire in order to attain it - then he goes out and buys  it.  This time, he buys the services of Lady Holland, a well bred  Englishwoman still preoccupied with the untimely loss of her young husband  three years older.  Part Pygmalion, part Beauty and the Beast, part Lady  and the Tramp, LK's novel tells the story of a relationship between two  opposites, and the transformation each undergoes as they fall in  love.<br />The story contains some fun and instructive information about  London society of the time.  I've always wished for a glossary of terms and  and explanation of some of the customs written into this genre, and parts  of this book gave me just that.  This is a story with a fairy tale quality,  and one that readers can empathize with - how many of us have yearned over  something that was beyond our reach, and wished for a miracle!  Most of the  characters are drawn sympathetically, although I expected a little more  malice in Lady Holland's family's opposition to her new post.  Overall, a  book I'm happy to recommend to others, with a good combination of  characterization, love, sensuality, and emotional conflict.  A different  type of story from SOMEONE TO WATCH OVER ME, but I think this shows the  breadth of the author's talent.  I look forward to her next novel.	2000-08-12
US	50947573	R1CUZ24GV7U372	0671038265	535239275	A Woman Scorned (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A good, satisfying story	As this story opens, the arrogant and lecherous sixth Marquis of Mercer, Henry Rowland, meets his Maker in an unexpected and untimely fashion.  Months later, his embattled young widow Jonet, suspected but never proven  to have murdered him, is desperate.  Unexpected accidents befall herself  and her two young sons, and she has surrounded herself with as many  trustworthy servants from her native Scotland as she can find.  However,  she must resume their education and some semblance of normalcy - she cannot  put this off any longer - and she undertakes to hire a tutor. Her  co-guardian, who is unfortunately also her late husband's brother, would  like nothing more than to prove her an unfit mother, and he endeavors to  place his nephew, Captain Cole Amherst, into her household as both tutor  and informant, to bolster his plans to seek sole custody of the boys. The  Captain, who knows all too well what the boys would face if left to his  uncle's rearing, agrees only to the role of tutor. For much of the first  part of the book, he struggles with his ambivalent attraction to the widow  Jonet, as well, until it becomes clear to all that her fears for her  children are well-founded.  Both Jonet and Cole flounder in a sea of dark  uneasiness and sexual tension, not knowing where to focus their suspicions  and neither sure of the other's affections.  An unexpected but well-written  household catastrophe finally galvanizes Cole to action, and and in the  process, forces he and Jonet to deal with their feelings for one another.   Secrets spill out fast and furious, mysteries and minds unravel, and the  reader is left with the sensation of having read a solid, satisfying  story.<br />LC's plot contained just the right amount of suspense for me,  keeping me a little impatient and stringing me along to find out more.  Every time I thought I had a character figured out, she'd also write a  little twist that would throw me off.  The characters are also prone to  introspection, and Cole comes off as more likable than Jonet, but I have to  say that she never stepped out of character - a lady toughened and made  cynical by a loveless match to a man twice her age, she is something of a  contrast to Cole, the scholar and cleric who found something unexpected in  himself when he became a soldier.  I delighted in LC's literary technique  of introducing each chapter with a synopsis statement, as if we were  watching a play unfold.  It's nice to read a work of this genre in which as  much attention is paid to the prose, as is to the sex.  There are some very  erotic and explicit scenes later in the book as Cole and Jonet's  relationship deepens, although the tension is offset by some unexpected  humor. If you are offended by them, skip them.  Overall, this is a book I'd  gladly recommend to others, and I look forward to reading more of LC's  work.	2000-07-31
US	50947573	R1R71MCX54RWAX	0373270917	279978210	Game Of Chance (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1021)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The last bachelor McKenzie bites the dust	I read this book through in twenty-four hours, that's how completely the story absorbed my attention.<br />Chance is up to his usual shadow-espionage activities, when he stumbles across a useful piece of information:  one of  his targets has an until-now unidentified daughter nick-named - deceptively  - Sunny (he thinks she's sunny in nature, but it's really a veneer for  survival).  Chance and Zane construct a plan to use her to get to her  terrorist father.  The plan undergoes only one modification when Chance  finds out some important facts about her, but that modification is a  ruthless one - to deliberately dangle her in front of her father, in order  to draw him out.  The plan is also complicated by Chance's growing  attachment to her.  The denouement is classic Linda Howard!<br />The reader  gets to know more about Chance's past in this story, and the parallels  between him and Sunny, his target, are well drawn.  Both have a history  that they'd prefer not to think about, and both are basically pretenders,  until they meet each other.  Although Chance's set up of Sunny is harsh, it  was also completely in character for him, given what we learn about his  life.  LH also writes Sunny's character well - a street-wise woman who,  just for a little while, wants to let down her guard and believe in happy  endings.....<br />In her opening message to the reader, LH explains something  that had always nibbled at me - the time frame.  She mentions that all of  the books are set in an unidentified future - thank you for that  clarification!  She also mentions that this is probably the last McKenzie  book.  True, there aren't any more first-love stories to tell about the  existing cast of characters, but so what?  The McKenzies' lives aren't over  just because the how-they-met tales are done - please, Ms. Howard, consider  a McKenzie series that brings us one of their adventures ever so often, and  keeps them alive for us!	2000-07-30
US	50947573	R2TWKDPTSBSZTV	0425164470	646929521	Illusion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Complex, layered, spell-binding story	This book hardly qualifies as &quot;simply&quot; a romance.  Rather, it is a story of spying, deception, betrayal, and renewal.  The central characters, Frances and Nigel, are thrown together by Nigel's need to  expose a traitor.  Neither truly knows themselves - Frances was sold into  an Indian harem years ago, and has learned to live only by skimming the  surface and mainaining illusions; Nigel has spied for so long that he  cannot untangle himself from the deceptions and illusions that have earned  him his fame.  Both are written with incredible complexity and layers of  personality that gradually unfold as the plot unwinds.  And the plot!   Admittedly I was in the dark much of the time, kept guessing at the mystery  and intrigue because of Ms. Ewing's diabolical way of dropping half-clues.   It definitely kept my attention, to the detriment of some other things that  needed to be done - I had to get to the end of the story! I like the way  Ms. Ewing alternately tells it from Frances's and Nigel's points of view,  without confusing the reader. This is a tale of twists and turns,  interwoven with stark sensuality and murder.  If you are a fan of Dorothy  Dunnet's Lymond chronicles, you may really enjoy this story, and you will  almost certainly be reminded of Francis Crawford as you listen to Nigel.   Like Dunnett's work, this book is not always easy to read, and it begs to  be re-read in order to savor the more intense passages, so it is a keeper  for me.  I do suggest that you not read any of the reviews for the sequel  (FLOWERS UNDER ICE) until you read this one first, so you can more fully  enjoy the sometimes-frustrating sense of trying to figure out who the real  traitor is.	2000-07-05
US	50947573	R2KHT58OD802WU	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	15	19	N	Y	Surprise	I ordered this book a while ago and was a little put off by the stereotyped cover, so I postponed reading it.  What a surprise.  This is my first Loretta Chase story, but it won't be my last.<br />Lord Dain (rhymes  with Cain - fitting, I think) is the tormented beast.  Jessica is his  beautiful redemption.  But what a wild ride to get there!  I have no doubt  that in the hands of a less gifted writer, this twist on the old fairy tale  story would have come off as stupid, but I think LC has a gift for  characterization; I miss the hero and heroine already, having just finished  the book.  I also liked her prologue - too many authors don't take the time  to set the stage for their characters' conflicts, or try to do so only  through brief references in the middle of the plot.  Ms. C. had my  attention from page one as she drew Dain larger than life, and then pitted  him against a heroine who is firmly grounded in reality.  No pouting, no  head-tossing, no frippery, no sexual neurosis for Jessica! Dain's and  Jessica's relationship (humor, arguments, and all) was so well developed  and lucidly described, that I felt like I was watching a real couple  struggle against their attraction for one another.  I'm so glad I've  discovered this author - now if I can just find her other novels....	2000-07-03
US	50947573	R3N6E77VXS1MIV	0380803097	807910850	What the Heart Knows	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A nice return to a familiar setting	While I enjoyed KE's last two books, I didn't find them up to the same caliber of her earler work.  This book was a nice change.  Both hero and heroine have secrets.  Both have a Past with a capital &quot;P.&quot;   Their lives cross after twelve years of separation, and after a halting  start, their relationship accelerates - only to take a detour when the  secrets are finally revealed.  As with her earlier novels, KE manages to  impart some useful information about the culture in which she places her  characters as she tells her story.  It's been interesting to watch how the  issues have evolved over time - like reading a little bit of history - and  something that I've enjoyed immensely, and that I missed in her last two  books.  Additionally, she does a good job of telling the story from more  than one point of view, without chopping it up or confusing the reader.  I  appreciated the fact that I didn't have to slog through the  love-misunderstanding-fight-make up scenario that seems to be an obligatory  part of the plot conflict in countless other works of this genre.  KE's  characters have depth, affection, sensuality, behave like adults and not  spoiled adolescents, and make me want to meet them in person - an  impossibility, of course, but a good measure of how well they were created!   If you are a fan of her earlier novels, you will probably enjoy this story  as well - I'm happy to recommend it.	2000-06-29
US	50947573	R3KAL4FS4A8KPL	0515128015	862934849	Eclipse Bay	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This one is more like it!	I had stopped reading Krentz's books because a number of them over the past few years had become fairly shallow, predictable, and not very entertaining.  I'm so glad to see this change.  ECLIPSE BAY shows better  writing and a more believable story peopled with characters that you can  empathize with.  No stupid dialog.  No heroes and heroines so eccentric  that the reader can only shake her head in disbelief.  No overly-quick  bedroom scenes.  No paper-thin plot.  Just a good story about two feuding  families and how their youngest generation shows them how to bury the  hatchet, with a little mystery added in.  We didn't get to see very much of  the heroine's family, so I hope they'll make more of an appearance in the  next books of the series.  A hearty welcome-back to the old Krentz style  that I liked so much!	2000-06-21
US	50947573	RZH83XMVQNUYW	0380796368	595305092	The Maiden Bride	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Well-written characters and a unique perspective	Imagine being wed and bedded by proxy, losing your entire family to the Black Death, and then being granted a run down estate as your widow's portion by a king with a hidden agenda - rebuilding a kingdom devastated by  the Plague.  Imagine having an epiphany on the battlefield just as you are  about to slay a child, abandoning the only career you know, as a warrior,  and trying to rebuild your humanity, only to watch your dreams die off -  again, in the Plague. Imagine getting a second chance to do it right.  If  you can imagine all these things, you have the feeling generated by this  novel, and you are in for an enjoyable read about a hero and a heroine who  are trying, like so many others in the novel, to make their second chances  work.<br />I liked this book for its character development.  Told alternately  from the hero's and the heroine's point of view, it was fun to see the male  versus the female perspective on an unexpected situation.  The hero's  character, strong to begin with, undergoes even more of a transformation.  The heroine is written with optimism, strength, intelligence, and integrity  -and not one to easily get her feelings hurt like so many other romance  heroines.  The author gives us a glimpse of day to day medieval life and  the devastation wrought by the Plague in 14th century England; my only  regret was that there wasn't a little more history woven into the story -  the setting was ripe for it.  An enjoyable story!	2000-06-21
US	50947573	R17H5R1XD3JZ7T	0821765698	254837034	More Than You Know	Books	5	29	32	N	Y	Superb Writing	This book is a gem.  Set in the context of a treasure hunt through, of all places, the Polynesian Islands, it tells the story of a developing relationship between Claire Bancroft, daughter of an eccentric British  naturalist, and Rand Hamilton, the last surviving son of a Charleston  family devastated by the Civil War. Claire and Rand are thrown together by  a two-part riddle that ultimately requires both their combined knowledge  and skills in order to solve. The book stands out not only because of the  unique premise, but also especially because of the characters, which are  very well developed, with depth and believability.  Their conversations are  wonderful, and it feels like one is actually watching two real people fall  in love slowly and deeply.  Ms. Goodman manages to infuse the story with  tenderness, sensuality, and humor all at once!  The growing romance between  Rand and Claire is also told in a manner that is refreshingly free of  pettiness and artificial fights, because Claire has a condition which  forces her to deal with the world without the usual coquettishness, and  Rand won't let her feel sorry for herself.  Instead, Ms. Goodman's writing  manages to convey, in Rand's character, deep devotion without too much  machismo or posturing.  <br />The mystery is kept secret till near the end.  The setting is unusual and somewhat exotic.  I know I will want to read  this book again, to catch all the nuances I missed the first time.  I  recommend it highly.<br />If you do get this book, read chapter 10 slowly and  carefully.  Hidden within it, in an almost off-hand interchange between  Rand and Claire, is a powerfully beautiful and intense declaration of love  that doesn't come along very often.	2000-06-15
US	50947573	R1QK0V5MJEI46Z	0821765221	63212231	Can't Take My Eyes Off You (Zebra Book)	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	This story kinda grows on you .....	I've had this book for a while, but had lacked the motivation to start it, despite the good reviews, because of the premise.  Really, rich girl running away to experience real life - oh, come on, such an old idea(q.v.  &quot;The Prince and the Pauper&quot; of fairy tale fame)!   I finally  started it, and after slogging through the first couple of pages and  cringing a little, I got into the pace of the story.  I also surprised  myself, because although it wasn't the kind of book that I just couldn't  put down until 3 AM, I kept drifting back to it night after night, wanting  to see what would happen next.  So, it kind of grew on me, I guess.<br />If  you've read the other reviews, you already know that Shelby Taite is a poor  little rich girl with a gay brother; she's engaged to marry, but the  wedding is really more of a business merger.  She had an alcoholic Uncle  Alfred who inspires her to sample life's zest before she  &quot;settles,&quot; and a chauffeur named Jim who unwittingly points her  in the direction of a small town (known as &quot;East Wappy&quot; to the  locals).  As the trailer says, &quot;the bride takes a hike&quot; -  straight to nowheres-ville.  Her relatives hire security expert and  bodyguard Quinn Delaney to track her down and make sure she stays safe  until she comes to her senses and returns.  We get to watch what happens  along the way.<br />This book felt like it was spending a lot of time pulling  my leg.  The characters start out so stereotyped that I felt as if I were  watching a farce.  HOWEVER - and here's where I got hooked - they all  proved themselves to be more than their surface appearances. I liked  watching Quinn's evolution from a cynical bodyguard, to a man hopelessly in  love (and KM's writing during those scenes was beautiful).  Somerton,  Shelby's brother, turned out to be more than the sum of his parts, with  some unexpected concern and gumption.  Jeremy, Somerton's significant  other, was just plain funny, although along with Shelby's fiance' from hell  (Parker), he was among the most sterotyped of the characters.  Uncle  Albert, with his charmingly affectionate personality sadly flawed by too  much love for alcohol, turned out to have surprising depth and an ability  to reflect this back onto the others.  <br />There isn't a real slam-bash  ending to this book; in fact, it's fairly predictable and anticipated.  The  strength of the story lies in the character development and the evolution  of the love relationship between Quinn and Shelby.  This is a sweet story  that kept me coming back for more and turned out to surprise me, so I gave  it 5 stars.  Enjoy it.	2000-06-09
US	50947573	R7D7GDJ2Y7AWD	0451406869	561998138	The Rake	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Another for my top ten list.....	Reginald Davenport is an alcoholic.  Alys Weston is a gifted businesswoman and estate manager living a life of lies layered on one another like an onion.  What an unlikely pairing - but it works!  Reginald's cousin opens  the door to his transformation by restoring an estate to him which had been  unlawfully withheld; however, it is up to Reginald to walk through that  door.  The book traces Reginald's journey, as Alys becomes a reluctant  companion along the path.  That the two fall in love is not surprising;  what makes it interesting, is that in the end, it is Alys's flaws that  threaten to destroy their relationship, and not Reginald's  addiction.<br />Reginald's character is written so well - it's as if MJP was  able to get inside the head of an addicted person and those around him who  either collaborate with the addiction, or try to neutralize it.  This story  has credibility and depth, and is one that I'll be recommending to my  friends.  Excellent job.	2000-06-09
US	50947573	R1V1332SYQ7UPZ	0446605832	322868217	Come Near Me	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Spooky!	The paths of Adam Dagenham, Marquis of Daventry, and Miss Charlotte Victor, cross in an unlikely manner one lovely spring day.  Both are smitten with one another, and after a hasty marriage, they settle down to  several months of wedded bliss - until a charismatic stranger named Richard  Brimley walks into their lives.  Brimley seduces them both, then sullies  their love by planting the seeds of jealousy in Adam's heart.  As the book  opens, we see the fruits of his labors, as Adam and Sherry are at one  another's throats in a love-hate relationship that painfully contrasts to  their love-at-first-sight paradise.  By then, Brimley has mysteriously  disappeared, but a new, charming character by the name of Edmund Burnell  takes his place, and with frighteningly similar actions, he also slowly  insinuates himself into Adam's and Sherry's lives.  Something about Burnell  finally opens Adam's eyes, and what he sees, remembers, and learns further  as the story proceeds, is downright scary.  When the book starts, Sherry is  the one trying to rekindle their relationship; midway through, the tables  turn, and it is Adam who struggles to save them both - literally.<br />KM  tells this story in three parts:  &quot;A Small Society,&quot; followed by  &quot;A Dangerous Game,&quot; and climaxing with &quot;Good and Evil.&quot;   I enjoyed her writing style, which included introducing each book and each  chapter with a literary quote hinting at the contents. She also tells the  story by moving back and forth in time between the past and the present,  but I was never confused because - and I know this sounds strange, but it  works - the typeface for the past is different than that of the present, so  that the effect is similar to looking through a lens at a distance.  Very  ingenious.  <br />This book was more than a romantic story; it takes themes of  good and evil, and the limits of the power of each, and weaves them into a  story about everyday life.  I thought KM did a very good job of portraying  evil in its various manifestations, and contrasting this with both the  strength and the vulnerability of innocence.  I was spooked a little at how  well she wrote the concept!  There were some twists to the ending that I  didn't see coming.  My only criticism revolved around Sherry's character,  which was portrayed as so perfect that at times she seemed shallow.  But  overall, I found this to be a delightfully different story, and one I'm  happy to recommend.	2000-06-09
US	50947573	R1EPJH3MW74DMJ	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Love, Obsession, Revenge	If you are uneasy about stories that are based on a sexual premise, this book is not for you.<br />Damien Sinclair, the story's dark hero, is bent on destroying Aubrey Trent, a n'er-do-well nobleman who was responsible for an  accident which ended up crippling Damien's younger sister Olivia.  He  manages to bankrupt Aubrey at the gaming tables.  Aubrey's sister Vanessa,  who has been cleaning up Aubrey's and their father's messes, so to speak,  for the past several years, begs Damien for mercy.  He drives a hard  bargain: she must agree to be his mistress, and he will forgive Aubrey's  debts.  As the story proceeds, Damien's obsession with revenge gives way to  a sexual obsession with Vanessa which has the potential to redeem his  corrupt existence.  But how will he and Vanessa move their feelings beyond  mutual lust?  The example for such a transformation comes from two unlikely  characters.  Read the book for more - I don't want to reveal the  plot!<br />The characters are well written and have depth and believability.   The premise, while somewhat disturbing, is also credible.  The sexual  scenes, including glimpses of the seamier side of 19th century London life  in the brothels, are graphic. All in all, however, this is a book about  love, obsession, revenge, and the price of each.  One of the better Regency  novels I've read lately, and I'm happy to recommend it.  <br />By the way, it  seems that one of the characters is making a cameo appearance as a sort of  audition for the next book in the series - see if you can guess who!	2000-05-27
US	50947573	R4ZHNUUOPOED5	1551665824	980027124	The Waterfall	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Predictable	Unfortunately I didn't share the enthusiasm of other readers of this book.  I found the plot too predictable.  I did like the way the characters were written, though Lucy's younger son was awfully tame compared to what I know  about middle-school-aged boys in real life.  Plato was a great character -  I'd love to see him in his own book (hint).  Although there were lots of  sexual teases between Sebastian and Lucy, that's all they were - teases.   Overall, I found the book a little boring.  This was my first by this  author, so I'll try another and see if it was a matter of my own tastes, or  her writing style.	2000-05-22
US	50947573	R3C4SPRM7RN0AN	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	A Lightning Rod Book	I'm not going to waste much time summarizing any plot elements - this book has been extensively reviewed along those lines and to do so again would just be redundant.  I'll just say that the prospective reader should be  aware that this book deals with the convoluted intertwining of love and  domestic violence.  Any other plot elements, diverting and interesting  though they may be, are subordinate.    <br />This book is like a lightning  rod, catching and channeling crackling bursts of reader energy - depending  on your state of mind and your personal experiences, as well as your own  beliefs about the possibility of deep character change, you will react to  it in different ways.  Parts of it can induce profound uneasiness.  Parts  of it can inspire hope.  Whether that hope is realistic or not, is open to  interpretation.  Suffice it to say that this book is different, and if you  are looking for a simple, feel-good, contemporary tale, look  elsewhere.<br />This is my second MJP book, and I have to say that, like the  other, she does not shrink from controversy.  I personally like having the  right to read anything I please, even if it is controversial, so I'm glad  she got this one published.  I'll be looking for her others.	2000-05-22
US	50947573	R2CTIA9Z7JJ5HF	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Excellent Period Piece	Okay, this book's been out a while and there are over 40 reviews on it already, so it's almost gratuitous to write this one, since it'll probably just get lost in the pile - but this book was so enjoyable that I needed to  add my applause!<br />Sylvester, Sixth Duke of St. Ives, and the leader of the  Cynster family (and otherwise known as Devil by those who love him),  crosses paths with Honoria Prudence Anstruther-Wetherby when both find his  cousing dying in the woods.  Yes, it sounds like the stuff of melodrama,  but the story is so well written that it's credible.  Through some sort of  sixth sense, and aided by the conservative conventions of the time, Devil  sets his sights on Honoria as his bride-to-be.  She, on the other hand, is  much slower to warm up to him; she wants a life unfettered by social  convention, even though at heart she was bred to be a peeress.  In a  nutshell, the book tells the story of their evolving relationship as the  murder mystery is solved.<br />It's not too hard to figure out whodunnit if  you are an experienced reader of mysteries.  The pleasure of this book lies  in watching these two strong personalities change one another and become  attached to one another.  Unlike some pieces of this period, the people and  dialog are not stilted, shallow, or silly.  The author spends plenty of  time on developing her characters and their setting, with the result being  a very sensual story with an enjoyable give and take between Devil and  Honoria.  Now I'm looking for the continued tales of the other Cynster men.   Hope Ms. Laurens' talent holds strong!	2000-05-22
US	50947573	R1TGSUS83B8FYS	0385334370	703888182	Handyman	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Reality Therapy	Maggie Ivey is having a bad year - actually, a bad five years, ever since her boyfriend impregnated her, then left her with five hundred dollars and a callous note about &quot;taking care of it.&quot;  She didn't, and though  her son Tim is the apple of her eye, other aspects of her life are well and  truly broken.  She is being sexually harassed on a dead end job that  doesn't have the pay or benefits she was originally promised, and she just  takes it without protest.  Her mother wants her to go home and marry the  local boy, dependable, but a little dull and a lot more emotionally  abusive. Her so-called best friend thinks she needs a &quot;21 Day  Overhaul,&quot; the latest time-limited therapy rage on the West Coast.   Maggie's friend Gina even springs for the cost of the therapy, so all  Maggie has to do is show up in the renowned Dr. Jason Golding's office and  go to work on her life.  One problem:  Dr. Golding is temporarily  unavailable.  In a comedy of errors and mistaken identities, Maggie ends up  pouring out her heartache to contractor Jake Cooper, whom Dr. Golding has  hired to remodel his office in his absence.  Jake's been accused of being  communication-impaired and emotionally unavailable by his ex-girlfriend,  Lindsay, so you can imagine his surprise (and unexpectedly growing  pleasure) when he actually turns out to be therapeutic for Maggie!  The  ensuing story gives new meaning to the saying (also quoted in the novel),  &quot;Oh what a tangled web we weave...,&quot; but also highlights how  chance encounters can lead to lasting attractions and love, and how easily  one can miss one's soulmate if they are not &quot;in the right place, at  the right time.&quot;<br />I got wrapped up in Maggie and Jake, and I had a  mounting sense of anxiety as I read this book, as if there were a big  freight train racing toward them.  I couldn't figure out how Jake was going  to extract himself from the situation, and whether he would end up being  victimized byhis ex (a therapy addict), by Maggie's friend Gina  (determined to &quot;fix&quot; Maggie's unexpectedly growing assertiveness  by nailing her unscrupulous therapist and hopefully turning her back into a  whimpering dependent in the process), or by Dr. Golding, a well-portrayed  slime-ball psychobabblist.  Not to fear - in a delightfully written, dry  but droll climax worthy of the best film farces, all the pieces fall into  place except one.  Read the book to find out!<br />Yes, you will have to  suspend reality in order to accept the premise of this novel - that an  emotionally beaten-down woman could actually believe that what was being  done, was therapy.  But the genius of this story is that that's probably  how unethical psychological charlatans ply their wares.  Jake and Dr. Jason  were nicely drawn as counterpoints to one another, and the supporting  characters were well and thoroughly dyssocial.  The romance develops slowly  and is understated, without much steaminess but a lot of affection.  The  author draws the story to its conclusion with the same matter-of-fact and  unadorned narrative that she uses throughout the story, which makes the  craziness of the whole situation stand out even more.  Yes, it's an  improbable plot - but, hey, it's great fiction!	2000-05-16
US	50947573	R3N7U2O5LPHITC	0440235103	932202469	When a Man Loves a Woman	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Pure romance story	Can friendship become love?  That is the question for Doctors James Elliot and Deborah Brody.  They've known each other since their freshman year of medical school, and though they characterize themselves as friends, in many  ways they are more like siblings who have together weathered the trials of  that institutional family substitute called The Medical Profession.  Twenty  years into their relationship, Deb is suddenly widowed, and the delicate  balance between them abruptly changes.  Elliot (they can't call each other  by their given names - too intimate, perhaps?) has never married, Brody is  suddenly available, and neither one of them seems able to negotiate the  overwhelming possibility that they might actually love each other as man  and woman.<br />The strength of this book lies in Alina Adams' written dialog  and character development.  There is no big suspense or mystery subplot,  and not a lot of technical medical narrative - just the halting and  sometimes painfully realistic unfolding of a relationship between two  people who are very cerebral and who long ago had to learn how to suppress  feelings and spontaneity in the service of their profession.  In this  respect, it's a romance in its purest form, and if you are used to a lot of  action in your stories, you may find this one a little more challenging to  read.  It's a story that can't be read in one sitting because it's too  intense, and at times, I had to put it down to take a breather.  However, I  found I couldn't abandon it.  Brody and Elliot stuck to me like  cockleburrs, and I had to find out what they were going to do about their  dilemma.  These characters are not starry-eyed and suddenly smitten;  instead, there is a fairly pervasive sexual tension between them throughout  the book.  This story is also different in that the characters are older  and more experienced than is usual in this genre - both are in their early  40's and entering the height of their professional achievement.  AA'sbook  reminds us that love blooms at any age and in the most unanticipated places  - a really nice story.	2000-05-07
US	50947573	REZCC23NFPF31	038081255X	967342288	Wish You Were Here	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Four people, two love stories	Zoe and Lyssa Cash have been to hell and back in the past six years.  Now they have each other and their island home, Abrigo, a refuge from the rigors of the past, where they run a bed and breakfast.  Into this safe  paradise come two very disturbed and disturbing men:  Deke Nielsen and  Yeager Gates.  Deke is on an errand of family business, tying up loose ends  from an estate left to him; his friend Yeager is accompanying him on a  vacation that is part recuperation and part running away.  Once upon a  time, Yaeger was the country's golden boy astronaut hero; now, he is a  disabled pilot who has been permanently excluded from the space program.   However, Zoe, Lyssa, and Deke have also suffered losses which have left  scars.  These three have figured out how to survive - although they have  also been left more than a little stunted, in various ways, in the process.   Yeager has not reached that survivorship point, and is still struggling  alternately with rage, grief, and denial.  The life lines of these four  people intersect on a tiny island off the coast of California, as CR tells  four stories of loss, change, and love.<br />These characters are wonderfully  written as the attachments and sexual tension develop between them.  There  is no big subplot or mystery in this book, just an unfolding of  relationships in a protected, greenhouse-like environment.  This allowed me  to get caught up in the people-part of the story without distraction.   Zoe's insecurities, in particular, are both poignantly and realistically  portrayed.  This is one of the most enjoyable stories I've read, and I wish  I could give it six stars.  The trailers on the back of the book make it  come off a little flippant.  Don't take them too seriously.<br />By the way,  don't read too fast through the mud fight.  It's so well written that  you'll feel like you're part of it, and it's a scream.....	2000-05-07
US	50947573	R2G4SH8P79C11H	0380814331	139424680	One Summer's Night	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Mid-Summer Magic and Madness	Rejected by the only graduate school of her choice, Laurel Carrington is at loose ends after her college graduation.  She is not used to this, having spent a lifetime of eradicating from her existence any taint of disorganization, ambiguity, or right-brain thinking.  Not to worry - her  father and her hopeful fiance-to-be are more than willing to come to her  rescue and lay out the rest of her life for her.  In an uncharacteristic  act of rebellion against their intrusive planning, Laurel decides to accept  a surprise invitation to a summer apprenticeship in Vermont with famous  artist Maybelle Starr.  Maybelle shows Laurel how to experience life  without the trappings of linear thought and logic, and her summer is  alternately magical, arousing, dirty, and maddening, as she comes to terms  with the intuitive, creative, joyous side of herself.  Along the way, she  crosses paths with Dane Walden, a self-taught man of many contradictions  who is the caretaker at Maybelle's farm.  On the surface so different, yet  alike in ways they have yet to discover, Dane and Laurel are drawn together  in a mystical, spiritual, sexual bond.  As the summer lengthens, Dane,  Laurel, and Maybelle find their destinies intertwined in a story of  opposites, love, caprice, and magic.<br />This book starts out slowly.   Beware, because about halfway through, it accelerates unexpectedly, and you  may find that you cannot put it down very easily.  The characters are  written with depth and believability, and the author draws beautiful  pictures with words that evoke the sight, smell, and feel of the place.  My  only regret revolved around what felt to me to be some unresolved issues in  the plot, with regard to Dane's sister.  However, Maybelle would probably  say that it's good to leave something to the imagination.....This book  crosses genres and I don't think of it as &quot;just&quot; a romance, but  more of a story about love and family.  I'm happy to recommend it!	2000-04-30
US	50947573	R2ZH69058N8QPH	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good Idea, Not So Good Story	I've always been able to rely on SEP's novels to keep me up late turning the pages.  Usually her characters and dialog shine.  However, I found myself really having to plod through this book, out of a sense of  obligation to read it after I'd spent the money.  I found the hero and  heroine dull and unlikable, and I felt like I was suffering through endless  pages of arguments between the two, punctuated by the tantrums of an  un-endearing teenaged girl and a too-graphic description of the bodily  functions of a baby with chronic carsickness.  Not charming.  Too much time  on the road, too little plot development.  The idea was a good one, but it  was lost in the telling of the story, which - unlike her others - has a  dark and disturbing undertone throughout.  If you are a fan of SEP, you may  want to check this one out of the library or borrow it, because I don't  think you'll find it similar to her other works, and you may not want to  keep it around afterwards.	2000-04-23
US	50947573	R3SHNPBJGWUW9Q	0446606545	938869946	After I Dream	Books	4	34	34	N	Y	Terror in the Deep	There's something about being at sea that heightens the suspense of any story - one is isolated and at the mercy of the elements and whatever evil lurks, with little chance of timely rescue.  However, there's nothing like  a deep sea diving setting to REALLY bring out the terror in a suspense  story, which is what makes Rachel Lee's tale such a page turner.<br />Chase  Mattingly is a beached SEAL and former deep sea diver who had a psychotic  episode at almost 200 feet under the surface.  Unable to live with the  shell he has become, he withdraws from society in order to sort out whether  he'll ever be able to be whole again, or whether he ought to just end it  all instead.  Despite his deeply ambivalent feelings about the sea, he ends  up living on the water in south Florida, across an inlet from Callie and  Jeff Carlson.  Callie is an obsessive-compulsive psychologist trying to  take a vacation; in contrast, Jeff seems to be the eternal Peter Pan  younger brother whom Callie appears doomed to have to rescue throughout his  life. When Jeff is accused of murder on the high seas, Callie and Chase are  thrown together in a search for answers to the questions of who, why, and  how, two charter fisherman were murdered out in the open ocean.  There are  too many coincidences between what happened to Chase, and what Jeff may  have stumbled upon at sea, for both to have been random events...  As they  try to sort out what happened, a romance develops between them:  Chase, a  hero with mental and physical disabilities, and Callie, a heroine who  doesn't realize she's a bundle of neuroses until almost halfway through the  story.  An interesting match, indeed.<br />Rachel Lee's language in this novel  is something to behold.  Aside from imparting some very interesting  information about deep sea diving, she creates a beautiful and terrible  metaphor of the sea as a living and breathing creature.  The reader can  feel the press of deep water as it slowly tries to crush the diver, and  hear the whispers of seductive promise and death in the waves.  The scents  and sounds of Key West make the land setting come alive in counterpoint.   This book kept me up on edge until almost 2 AM, even though I had my  suspicions about whodunnit  fairly early on - it didn't matter, I knew  there was a scary climax coming, and I was right.  This is a good story for  lovers of romantic suspense, and a keeper for me.  I definitely look  forward to her next story later this year!	2000-04-23
US	50947573	RIALIOKA5157G	0553107488	131310413	Dawn on a Distant Shore (Wilderness)	Books	5	44	46	N	Y	From the New World to the Old	If you are new to this series, read this review - then go buy INTO THE WILDERNESS and read it first.  Some series stories can be read out of sequence, but this is not one of them.  DAWN ON A DISTANT SHORE assumes the  reader already has some background knowledge about the main characters, and  wastes little time bringing newcomers up to speed on their history.   Instead, the tale plunges headfirst into the action and intrigue, and  you'll miss out on some enjoyment if you have to play guess and catch-up  with the events that precede it.<br />The Bonners of New York State, in early  post-revolutionary America, trade the wildness of the New World for the  jaded Old, as they are forced into a trans-Atlantic chase to Scotland  orchestrated by Nathaniel's distant older cousin, the Earl of Carryck.  The  Earl, a shadow figure about whom we learn only from others' perceptions for  almost two-thirds of the book, is desperate to induce one of the male  Bonners to stand as his heir, and thus help him avoid forfeiture of his  ancestral lands.  Although it is Hawkeye, the eldest in the Bonner line,  whom he originally covets (yes, new readers, this is the same LAST OF THE  MOHICANS Hawkeye), any male Bonner will do - which, of course, means that  Nathaniel and his baby son, Daniel, are also at risk.  In WILDERNESS, fresh  characters populated a virgin land, with all its beauty, sharp edges, and  savage nature.  In DAWN, almost a third of the story is spent at sea, and  the dangers are more human than natural.<br />Sara Donati's sequel to INTO THE  WILDERNESS is a different sort of book, and it is hard to avoid  comparisons.  However, DAWN stands on its own as a complex story about  family and political relationships.  I admire the inventive mind of the  author, whom I forgive (just kidding) for making me wait six months longer  than I'd hoped, to read this book.  What a devious plot!  The various  characters are unfolding their personalities layer by layer; this time,  Nathaniel's and Elizabeth's relationship is somewhat taken for granted and  less in the forefront, while Hannah, Curiosity, and Hawkeye receive more  attention.  Several new characters, including one nice surprise, make their  appearances (to be fleshed out later, I hope).  Too many times to count, I  found myself rereading certain passages in order to make sure I had all the  relationships straight.  In that respect, the story parallels WILDERNESS,  where the reader has to thread a path through the intricacies of kinships  that blend English, Mohawk, and American blood.<br />To me, this book felt  like a transitional work - a necessary middle story to elaborate on  background, context, and personalities, and to introduce new faces while  pruning away others whose time had come.  Readers of WILDERNESS will notice  that Dr. Todd, a very central character in the foundation story, is absent  from this one, as is most of the Mohawk portion of the Bonner family.  I  missed these characters, and I also missed the excitement, newness, and  panorama of the New World and the fledgling nation setting that WILDERNESS  gave us.  DAWN is still a five-star book, for me, but like many of the  other readers, and the Bonners themselves, I now want to go back to  Paradise and Lake in the Clouds.  Ms. Donati, I hope you'll take us back  there next time!	2000-04-16
US	50947573	R37K5S5P97WOFV	0425173356	303996339	Cat and the Countess	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A different lady	&quot;Round and full and plump...&quot; With these words, Casey Claybourne lets the reader know that Lady Elizabeth Pemsley is not your average heroine.  But if you are a little weary of stories populated by lean, brave  women, you'll be pleasantly surprised by this gently flawed, but lovable,  Countess, and her reluctant protector, American &quot;half-breed&quot;  Wildcat MacInnes.  <br />As the story opens, Lady P's hands are - literally -  in Wildcat's pants, though not in search of erotic release.  Elizabeth, you  see, is bedevilled by keptomania.  Married at an early age to a man old  enough to be her father, she has been left to fend for herself in London  society after his death.  Elizabeth has lots of secrets and is beset with  terror at the prospect of having to function on her own and on behalf of  her young son, amongst London's elite.  She is turning too quickly to  another marriage with the noble, uninspiring, Marquess of Cresting, Peter  Ballatine; she is also turning to food, to the detriment of her stays, and  to the unconsious comfort of &quot;pinching&quot; things.  She has amassed  a veritable treasure trove of useless items filched from one person or  another over the months since her husband's death.  When her path crosses  with MacInnes, however, she is in trouble: she takes his most valued  possession, a bandolier bag made for him by his Delaware mother.  Wildcat  is intent on retrieving it, and Elizabeth is dead-center in his crosshairs  as he single-mindedly pursues his goal.  To go any further in a description  of the plot, would be to reveal too many delightful surprises.  Suffice it  to say that CC develops an ingenious subplot involving Elizabeth's future  in-laws and MacInnes, who ultimately has to make several choices about  what's really most important to him.  The surprises at the end leave the  reader feeling sympathetic to ALL the characters, which is also quite a  feat.<br />The dialog is just plain funny in an un-self-conscious way; the  sexual scenes are understated but provocative; and all the characters are  developed with empathy and depth (even the dragon mother-in-law-to-be). I  especially found staid Peter Ballantine to be a kind, thoughtful, and  ultimately generous man.  This is a different kind of story, and I  recommend it without reservations - for me, it's definitely a keeper.	2000-04-07
US	50947573	R2CUI7LAPVSRB9	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Reliably entertaining, leaves you wanting more.	If you're a newcomer to this series, welcome to Nick and Nora in the Third Millenium.  JDR has slicked up the old Thin Man concept and brought it into the future, where the world is one of excess and hyperbole in all forms.   Beef and coffee are delicacies, prostitution is legalized and rigidly  controlled, new drugs - legitimate and otherwise - are readily available,  but the seven deadly sins are unchanged.  Cars travel in all spacial  dimensions and planets are for sale, but cops still like  donuts...Soft-boiled Eve Dallas and her handsome, mysterious, omnipresent  husband Roarke, sleuth together in a plot that regulars to the series will  recognize as more psychologically oriented than its predecessors.  Eve and  Roarke witness a real murder onstage during the opening night of a 20th  century crime drama staged as a retro-performance - one of Roarke's  weaknesses is for 20th century black and white / film noire, and of course,  it's his playhouse...All the players are related to one another in some way  through the victim, and Eve has to look closely at the nature of love and  hate in personal relationships as she struggles to figure out whodunnit  right under her nose.  All of the books in this series develop subplots,  the strongest of which is the evolving relationship between Eve and Roarke,  two abused children who have grown up to excel at what they do, but who  bear the scars of their youth in grim silence - until they find each other.  This story brings us regulars along a little further in their lives.  Eve  finally starts to conquer her ambivalence about their bond, although she  clearly has a way to go.  Roarke remains somewhat maddeningly cool - it'd  be interesting to see him lose control once in a awhile.<br />Reading these  novels is like coming home every six months to the next installment of an  ongoing saga, although we still know less about Roarke, and it would be  nice to see more through his eyes.  Their relationship still has a thorny  sidethat can leave the reader just a little annoyed at both of them, which  is a tribute to the empathy with which the characters are drawn.  There's  lots of room for other characters to shine, although fans will note that  Mavis and Nadine took something of a back seat this time, to make way for  Peabody, McNabb, and the up and coming Trueheart.  I was waiting for this  one, and now that I've finished it, I have to wait another six months for  more!  If this is your first book in the series, don't despair - you've got  nine others to savor, and if you pace yourself, maybe you can make them  last until JUDGMENT IN DEATH comes out later this year.  You'll probably  understand the nuances of Eve's and Roarke's relationship faster if you  read them in chronological order, but I started out in the middle and then  bactracked, so it's not lethal if you end up reading this book first - and  it might be more fun!<br />One thing - I wonder who the candy thief will turn  out to be?	2000-04-04
US	50947573	R2YN7VRD3O6TYF	0505523078	532873024	Virtual Heaven (Perfect Heroes Series)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Imaginative.	What would happen if, through some fluke of electrical energy, our atoms could be rearranged and we could enter a parallel universe - a virtual reality world?  This imaginative concept is at the heart of this novel.   Maggie is gulped up into the virtual reality game TOLEMAC WARS during a  thunderstorm.  The sky is purple, the suns and moons are relocated, and the  culture is a primitive blend of Arthurian legend and medieval serfdom.   Perhaps most shocking to the reader is the utter slavery into which Maggie  tumbles; the author does a fine job of capturing the milieu, the sense of  being just another possession, and the complete loss of selfhood that  slavery entails. The hero, Kered, was very well characterized as both a  product of his times, and a born leader capable of seeing beyond them.  The  wind-up wasn't as strong as the rest of the book, though, which was what  kept me from giving it 5 stars.  It started to weaken once Maggie returned  to our world, which may only highlight how powerful was the author's  characterization of the virtual universe.  I don't know if I would want to  see a sequel or not - it might be too much of a let-down.  But there are  plenty of springboards for one (or more) if this creative author is so  inclined.  <br />If you like good fantasy romance stories, try this one; it  has a nice technological twist.	2000-03-29
US	50947573	R3OKIBFW0EXKAF	0553579231	197092805	The Legend Mackinnon	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Better than average, though not exceptional.	THE LEGEND MCKINNON refers to a curse supposedly placed upon all unions between members of the clans McKinnon and Claren following a disasterous clan war which ended up wiping both out three centuries ago.  For some  reason, the remnant Clarens and McKinnons have had, over the years, an  inexplicable, but fatal attraction to one another.  Three distant Claren  cousins - Maggie, Cailean, and Delaney - appear to be the last surviving  Claren descendents, and are left a legacy of land, family research, and  unanswered questions by their great uncle Lachlan.  As they try to unravel  what he was looking for, each crosses paths, in turn, with one of the three  long-dead McKinnon brothers.  The novel tells us how the six work out their  redemption and solve the puzzle that Uncle Lachlan couldn't quite  grasp.<br />The author does a very good job of developing the relationships  between Maggie and Duncan, and Rory and Cailean.  Poor Delaney and  Alexander - they come in at the end (Part Three), and really don't receive  the attention and character and relationship development that they deserve.   This was particularly disappointing to me because both seem like the most  intriguing and strongest of the couple trio; I thought that if their story  had been a little better fleshed-out, it'd have been a 5 star book.  Other  than that, and a certain stereotyping of Highlander males (they always end  up looking and acting the same), the story is entertaining and kept me  reading.  I didn't particularly like the description of the McKinnon castle  - too dark and forboding!  <br />I recommend this book if you are looking for  a story with fairly simple entertainment value.  A tad predictable despite  the originality of its premise.	2000-03-29
US	50947573	R2EZFNEFGWD1JX	0380771683	782228212	Fire and Rain	Books	5	12	12	N	N	It may break your heart, but don't let that stop you...	I lucked out and found this book before it went out of print.  If you have access to a used bookstore, look for this title; it is one of the best stories I have ever read.  Told alternately in the 19th and the 20th century, and spanning several decades, it is a tale of four lovers - two  White, two Native American - who cross the boundaries of their respective  cultures and give up what is comfortable in order to commit to one another  for all their lives.  Powerfully sensual, mysterious and somewhat sweetly  painful and disturbing (particularly the 19th century story), be prepared  to shed some tears if you find this book.  Keep it, it can be reread and  seen new each time.  I've read as many of Ms. Eagle's books as I've been  able to locate, and I think that this is by far her best work.	2000-03-25
US	50947573	R3RLZNYLIXMCNP	0449002055	427598558	Dove's Way	Books	5	5	6	N	N	War and Peace in the Soul	DOVE'S WAY, named after Matthew Hawthorne's Boston home, is a story about the price one pays in order to try to belong, and the soothing and transforming power of love in human relationships.  Matthew and Finnea are  social misfits for their time, thrown together in a piece of hopeful  matchmaking by an African man of power and wisdom, then abruptly torn apart  in a moment of unexpected violence. Both are physically and mentally  scarred, both have secrets, and both are made for each other - but only  Janji, the matchmaker, and Matthew's mother can see it right away.  The  story begins in Africa as Finnea prepares to return to late-19th century  Boston to rejoin her mother and her brother, who long ago left Finnea and  her father to the seductive wildness of Africa, for more civilized  surroundings.  We follow both Finnea and Matthew to proper Boston, where  each tries mightily, and fails, to win the acceptance of a parent.  The  story unfolds as they struggle with how different they are from the rest of  Bostonian society, how alike they are to each other, and their unwanted  need and love for each other.  Finnea manages to hold on to her secrets  longer than does Matthew, and only with the unwitting help of their old  African matchmaker, does she let go, making room in her life and her heart  for Matthew - and his daughter Mary.<br />I liked the way this story was told  alternately from the male and female point of view.  Scraps of Matthew's  journal introduce the major parts of the book, giving a nice glimpse into  his mind, but the narrative also gives him equal treatment.  His daughter  Mary is brilliantly written.  This is a sweet, sensual novel, reported to  be the first of a trilogy about the Hawthorne brothers of Boston.  We see  only glimpses of the other two brothers in this story, so there's plenty of  unexplored territory to look forward to.  This book reads easily, and my  only regret is that now I'll have to wait a while until I can revisit the  Hawthorne family again.  Enjoy it!	2000-03-24
US	50947573	RK10GQN0MF5Q5	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Fear and Loathing (and Lust) in...Ohio?	Poor Sophie Dempsey. She's the responsible sister who's always pulling her siblings' chestnuts out of the fire and never getting to have a good time - until the Dempsey sisters pull into Temptation, Ohio, and announce their  presence in a fender bender with the conservative Pillar of the Community,  Stephen Garvey, and his lovely wife Virginia.  A cast of characters unfolds  in the wake of broken sunglasses and an increasingly pornographic video,  with speed and whacked-ness that would make Hunter Thompson proud.  A  murder mystery wrapped up in an unfolding but slightly cracked love story  set in a Peyton-place village in middle America, where people aren't what  they seem, water towers imitate phallic lipsticks, and if you don't lock  your kitchen door, your neighbor may just walk in and find you having head  banging sex on the table...you'll feel like you're hurtling through this  story only half in control of your convertible!  Watch Sophie's sister,  Amy, push the edge of the envelope of her irresponsibility until it  tears...see Phineas awaken from the mind numbing task of being a small town  mayor trying to get the town council to make important decisions like what  kind of street lights to install...thrill as Sophie, the professional  caretaker, loses all her sexual inhibitions...and don't miss the fading  porn queen who can still seduce little boys, her long-ago flame and his  Coppertone-blonde-gone-crocodile-wrinkled wife, the thoughtful, but sexy  police chief, the small-town girl who wants out, the neurotic porn producer  who discovers a little late that he has standards after all, the  middle-aged liberal war protester, the Dempsey brother with the heart of a  Robin Hood and the mind of an ex-con, and the local matriarch (who else?  Phin's mother) who reminds us all that you can't buy or sleep your way into  privilege.  Oh, I forgot - don't miss the lacquered news anchorman who,  like everybody else in this little gem, gets exactly what's coming to  him...<br />I recommend this book, but fasten your seatbelt. You'd think a  story set in a little town in Ohio would be slower, but, no, it's like  petting a kitten and finding out that it's a tiger!  I'll be reading her  other stuff, because I liked what I found here.  <br />By the way, whoever  designed the cover is a genius.  Perfectly wrought symbolism.	2000-03-23
US	50947573	R2WDG7V2VWTXUY	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Beauty and the Beast	Lady Charlotte Dalrumple (also known as Miss Priss) has the unenviable task of civilizing two children who have known only life in a Bedouin tribe until their father decides that it's time to return to his family  responsibilities in 19th century England.  The children, however, turn out  to be a piece of cake - it's their father who is truly the beast.  Although  he lived his first fifteen years in England, he seems to have lost his  civilized English veneer and he's wholeheartedly assimilated a thoroughly  male-centric world view:  men are like the sun, and women revolve around  the sun, loving it and drawing from its warmth and protection.  Of course,  &quot;everyone&quot; knows the sun doesn't love those that orbit it - its  job is only to stay strong, warm, and functional.  Picture Miss Priss  trying to teach this man (because she ends up getting drawn in to becoming  his governess, too) how to conduct himself in polite Victorian society,  when HE has already decided that she is need of his warmth and protection  (and it doesn't hurt that he likes her body, too), and you have the  story.<br />I liked the plot, but I found that the characters were not always  as likable.  Lady Charlotte often came across as a thoroughly neurotic  woman who developed a load of guilt for something fairly tame (however, I  suppose Victorian England really was that repressed - I just kept waiting  for us to learn about a far juicier past than she turned out to have). I  found Lord Ruskin surprisingly dense, for a man portrayed with a fair  amount of native intelligence.  However, the conversations between these  two sparkled, and the sexual scenes were slowly and wickedly developed.  I  stifled a laugh at the vision of Lady Charlotte falling off her chair in  panic, in front of Queen Victoria - the author has a gift for painting  pictures with words!  All in all, an enjoyable read.	2000-03-23
US	50947573	R1FBKI3G7X14SY	0440235995	612051051	In the Presence of Angels	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	Faith and Love	Major Lord William Fitzpatrick has the gift of knowing when he is in the presence of angels.  A man of faith at odds with his military career, he befriends Val, a man who over the years shares with him his wife's  correspondence. Will develops an idealized vision of what Val's life must  have been like, and falls in love with that vision.  Val dies in his arms  at Waterloo, and Will leaves the Army a year later, returning to England  with some trepidation in hopes of reconciling with his estranged twin  brother.  Fate decrees otherwise-Val finds himself sidetracked to the farm  of Val's widow, where he gradually discovers how much of a gulf exists  between his fantasy and the reality of the life his dead friend lived.  The  constant in his experience is Louisa, Val's widow, with whom he falls  deeply in love. Louisa has encased herself in layers and layers of cynicism  as she struggles to repair the damage her marriage did to her family.  Will  and Louisa stand in counterpoint to one another, he the wounded optimist,  and she the bitter, angry pessimist.  KK's story takes us through their  transformation into lovers, and the impact of their love on their  lives.<br />This story kept my attention so thoroughly that it was 1 AM before  I realized how long I had been reading.  The characters - Will moreso -  think and talk about God without apology, neutrality, or embarrassment.  I  found Will's faith humbling.  The story does juxtapose spiritual themes  with explicit sexuality, and it is possible that this could be  uncomfortable for some readers. However, I found that it gave the book more  depth, because it required me to think a little more, and in a different  way, about the nature of divine goodness and human love. I recommend this  novel highly.	2000-03-19
US	50947573	R2H95EALK3W8VT	044022375X	861496437	My Dearest Enemy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A story about reluctant lovers	I look for stories that have a different perspective, so this one caught my attention.  Lily is given control over the inheritance that Avery always thought would be his.  The control is temporary; Lily has to prove herself  capable of managing it, or she will lose it to Avery.  The reader is  introduced to these two strong-willed people through their correspondence  with one another over several years; the story then moves to real-time.  I  loved the technique; it felt as though I was reading a long-ago diary, and  gave me a better feel for the characters' personalities than straight  dialog and narrative would have.  By the time the story entered the  narrative phase, I was ready for the sparks that flew (love-hate) as their  passion for each other unfolded.  I ached for them both as the book closed.   They were such reluctant lovers!  I held back on the fifth star rating  because the book felt a little short, but I'll still be keeping it because  it's different and I like that.	2000-03-18
US	50947573	R1R0OEU1R1CMBN	067179938X	457341957	Son of the Morning (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Story-Telling	I am a compulsive reader of LH's books - I have even found some in used book stores that are out of print.  This is my favorite - details, characterization, plot concept, all captured my attention from beginning to  end.  I also found this to be the most passionately sensual of her novels.  If you like LH's work, try this book.  It's a little different from her  others, but I think it shows an as-yet untapped potential.  I hope she  gives us more of this type of story.	2000-03-15
US	50947573	R29R0WWEJGD3BD	0449000184	263102702	One Perfect Rose (Fallen Angels)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	I didn't want to put it down...	I had never read this author's work before picking up this book.  I am delighted to find another author to add to my collection of top-rated works!  I know I will be reading more of her books.<br />The theme and plot  for this story are not completely new, because we've all read or seen  movies about two lovers who face the death of one of them.  What made this  unique for me was the time, and the setting:  there is a particular  helplessness and poignancy in facing a terminal diagnosis when technology  isn't there to promise any hope (false or otherwise).  The author uses this  as an opportunity to explore psychological and spiritual aspects of dealing  with one's own - or one's beloved's - mortality.  There was a depth of  characterization for Stephen and Rosalin that I won't forget, and their  dialog and scenes together were so wonderfully natural that I felt like I  was looking into someone's window at a real life.  Their relationship  develops gradually after a fair amount of soul searching, which allows  their sexual involvement to flow naturally and with believability - no  quick bed hopping here.  But it made the story even more enjoyable, and I  had some bad moments wondering what would happen to them and how it would  end. My only disappointment was that when the end came, it was so swiftly  completed; I felt the story &quot;hurried&quot; a little at this point.   However, that was not enough to deter me from giving it 5 stars.  I plan on  both keeping it to re-read in the future, and recommending it to my  friends.	2000-03-15
US	50947573	R2MNPA575D5OSW	1551665743	118691559	Mackenzie's Mountain	Books	5	56	61	N	N	Finally I got to read the first book in this series!	I came to the MacKenzie Family saga backwards - I purchased the combined stories of Zane and Maris in MACKENZIE'S PLEASURE and MACKENZIE'S MAGIC, liked what I read, looked at the list of her prior books, and started hunting for them.  I found a well-thumbed copy of MACKENZIE'S MISSION in  the paperback section of my local library, but I could not locate  MACKENZIE'S MOUNTAIN until its reissue this month, despite looking for at  least a year...I snapped it up!<br />Wolf Mackenzie is the premier male lead  character - a powerful, mysterious, sensual, and flawed Viet Nam veteran  (yes, he's very domineering - all in character, I suppose).  Mary Potter is  a wonderful foil - unattractive except to Wolf, cerebral, unaffectedly  honest to a fault, and, fortunately, willing to tolerate Wolf's less  endearing qualities.  Their relationship unfolds with Ms. Howard's  trademark sizzle-factor, but not too unbelievably fast (as is unfortunately  the case in many other books of this genre).  I'm hooked on this family's  adventures, and now that I've read the foundation story of Wolf and Mary, I  plan on rereading the later ones for a fresh perspective.<br />I did get  confused on the time line for all three stories.  I couldn't figure out how  there was time to let two decades elapse betwen this story and MACKENZIE'S  PLEASURE, so that Joe would be well into his middle age by then.  Joe was  born during the Viet Nam war, and by my calculations, he couldn't have been  as old as he was portrayed, so some kind of reference date for MACKENZIE'S  MOUNTAIN would have helped.  Oh, well, it's fiction anyway.	2000-03-15
US	50947573	R2FK91Q8T03AFB	0061012963	589801516	Bad Karma	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good Reading	I had never read TW before and was happy to find that I can add her to my list of authors to look for.  I found Cleo endearingly imperfect, with her self doubts and her atypical eating disorder.  Also, I never would have  expected the hero of a romance novel to have the added dimension of wanting  to be a guardian for his mentally challenged brother; it adds depth to the  story.  Both of these characters made for good reading with a different,  attention-getting twist.  I'm happy I bought this book.  If you're looking  for a new perspective on love stories, try it.	2000-03-15
US	50947573	RJJIC5OVSJG52	0440223806	222626476	The Cowboy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Waiting for more!	What a nice first book for what promises to be a series!  JJ gives the Romeo and Juliet theme a contemporary Texas twist, with two families at odds and two lovers caught in the middle.  The amount of hard luck  sustained by the heroine's family almost broke my heart - and the  relentless meanness of the hero's father was both believable and scary.  I  liked the amount of information woven into the narrative, about the  &quot;horse trade,&quot; because it gives the story depth and roots.  I  liked this book and look for more to the story!	2000-03-11
US	50947573	R7MSU28QFUFGX	0553563327	883134708	Thief of Hearts	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Like Traveling Back In Time	I read this book after having read some of TM's more recent works.  The writing style is really different from, say, CHARMING THE PRINCE, and lacks some of the tongue in cheek humor that I liked.  However, the plot was so  well delivered that I was kept guessing about certain issues till well into  the story.  The villain is REALLY bad, the hero and heroine somewhat of a  throw-back from the 1970's romances, as was the pirate theme, but I still  recommend this book as a well crafted and entertaining romance.	2000-03-11
US	50947573	R26AV7EHHZMZ3V	0671317083	422504912	The All Purpose Joy of Cooking	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Still Useful	I got my first JOY when I moved into my first apartment, but I'd been using my mother's older copy for several years before that.  I agree that this new edition (which is now my third) is missing some of the old-timey  stuff found in the older ones, but the new recipes and reference material  make up for that lack.  Overall, I think that I'll keep all my copies, and  use them as one might use an evolving set of reference encyclopedias - the  newer versions have new discoveries and knowledge, while the old ones have  little-known but useful tips.  By the way, if you haven't tried the recipe  for banana pudding, do so - I made it for a large dinner party, doubling  the recipe without a hitch, and it was all we could do to keep some guests  from just eating it spoonful by spoonful directly out of the bowl...yum.	2000-03-11
US	50947573	RLPQVOV3OSSKF	0515122874	225897943	Heaven's Time (Time Passages Series , No 12)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Good Story	This is a good story with an ingenious plot.  Major Melissa Fuller becomes one of the shooting stars she so loves when she is caught in a meteorite shower while repairing a satellite in space.  When Rory McCullough finds  her in a wilderness lake in Northwest Washington Territory, it's 1887, and  Melissa's memory banks have been fried.  The story unfolds as Melissa  regains memories of her past life and struggles to reconcile the woman she  was, with the woman she is becoming now in the past (a nice literary  contradiction!).  A tragic turn of events brings the story to a climax,  with Melissa forced to choose between the present/past, and her future.   The author does a nice job of illustrating how Melissa's character  undergoes a transformation and begins to open up to Rory's love.  The only  reason I didn't give this book 5 stars, lies in the character of Rory.  He  is a good man, but his personality is portrayed as fairly one-dimensional,  even though there are plenty of hints in his personal history that would  give us an opportunity to see a few human flaws.  It would have been nice  to see a little more of the story through his eyes, without so much  idealism. However, overall, he's probably the perfect contrast to the jaded  Melissa.  Shelan is really well-done and the reader gets just enough of her  backround to tantalize.  Overall, I recommend this book - it has a fairy  tale quality that can make you feel good!	2000-03-07
US	50947573	R16B3NIRJ9ZVD2	0821753452	532566946	A Man To Slay Dragons	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Fairy-Tale Quality	Claire is a high powered New York attorney in self-imposed exile from her family in New Orleans, unable to come to grips with the murder of her sister and its impact on her family.  She becomes entangled with a secret  society which uses a lottery to offer the victims of crime their  opportunity for revenge.  Her life intersects with that of Liam, an FBI  agent assigned to investigate the revenge ring, and a sadistic serial  killer who collects souveniers from his victims.  Against the backdrop of  carnival New Orleans, the reader is treated to a memorable tale of good and  evil, love and hate, romance and homicidal sexual obsession.<br />This is my  favorite of Ms. McKinney's books; different from her earlier works, it's  not at all historical in the classical romance sense, but down to earth and  populated with characters with the strengths and flaws of real people in  contemporary times.  As a result, it moves faster and with freshness.  Good  and evil; black, white, and shades of gray; love, lust, ugliness - it has  it all, crafted a little like a modern day fairy tale.  I recommend it  highly!	2000-03-02
US	50947573	R3B340R9QJLH9I	0505523248	876237009	An Original Sin (Wink & A Kiss, 3)	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	Fun Reading	I ordered this book on impulse, not expecting too much, but I was surprised.  Two opposites are forcibly brought together by a devilish spirit intent on inflicting pain by ripping them apart after they fall in  love.  How these two people from different worlds and cultures, come to not  only empathize with one another, but to love &quot;beyond reason,&quot; to  use the author's words, is the meat of the story.  Along the way, the  reader is treated to a glimpse of the inner workings of a demon mind trying  desperately to avoid redemption.  I did not give this book 5 stars because  I found some of the passages tedious, as the characters resisted their  attraction for one another.  Paradoxically, I also found the sexual imagery  laid on a little thick.  Otherwise, the story is as original as the title.   Fun to read!	2000-03-02
US	50947573	R13IL0D5LOQLGP	0380782413	460208958	Heartbeat	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Fast-Paced and Angst-Ridden	Maggie is a sober alcoholic hauling around a decade's worth of guilt.  Jack is a Texas Ranger who can't let go of a murder he failed to prevent.  Lisa is a beautiful attorney who won't believe the man she loves can behave any differently than her long-absent father.  Roman is a brilliant surgeon  whose workaholic habits have blunted his ability to perceive and express  love.  Porter is a Texas aristocrat who pontificates over a powerful law  firm and protects his own while extracting more than a pound of flesh as  repayment.  Victoria is a Texas Tiger Lily with ice in her veins.  Who's  killing hopelessly ill children in Texas hospitals?  Will love triumph over  neurosis?  Read Joan Johnston's book to find out.<br />I found myself reading  compulsively till the end, although about two thirds of the way through,  I'd figured out who done it - the tension in the plot doesn't let up until  the last chapter.  My only criticism was the pace of the book - it actually  covers only a few days, so I suppose the fact that it sometimes seemed to  move too fast, is understandable.  I would have rated it 5 stars if there  had been a little more character development to contribute to the romance -  maybe a few more flashbacks to flesh out the roots of these characters'  angst, rather than simple explanation passages in the narrative.  Still, a  fairly good read, with an original twist and nicely flawed (human)  characters - even if the Texas characters are somewhat stereotyped!	2000-02-28
US	50947573	R3VL48210PRT1I	0553291076	786030004	Miracle	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Buy and Keep It!	I started reading Deborah Smith's work with BLUE WILLOW, and from there, moved backward in time to her other books.  Both MIRACLE and BLUE WILLOW have a permanent place on my bookshelves, and I doubt I'll ever loan them  out, either, since I'd be afraid to lose them.  Even now, I sometime reread  portions just as one would revisit a good friend.  This book has been out a  while, so at some point it's likely to go out of print, which will be too  bad.  It's a long and satisfying romantic tale of suffering, renewal, and  redemption, with believable characters, deeply rooted passion, and a  well-researched plot and setting.  It is not the sort of book that one  reads in one setting; plan on giving it the time it deserves.  If you like  a full-bodied romantic novel that leaves you feeling like you've shared a  part of the characters' lives and loves, buy this book and keep it.	2000-02-27
US	50947573	R3VL4571R594IX	0553296906	32678105	Blue Willow	Books	5	28	30	N	N	In My Top Ten!	All of us have a mental Top Ten List - those books we remember and reread, and recommend to others with enthusiasm.  BLUE WILLOW is one of mine, and also has the distinction of being one of the few novels I have bought and  given as a gift to others.  BLUE WILLOW was my first Deborah Smith novel,  bought on an impulse, and I was literally blown away by how well it was  crafted.    Unlike other novels, where there may be two or three fully  developed characters, and the remainder serve as foils or window dressings  for the protagonists, Deborah Smith manages to infuse the characters of two  entire families with depth, painting a picture of people with both nobility  and tragic flaws.  The intimacy of the central characters is well written,  physically sexual but emotionally deep.  As an aside, Ms. Smith shows, in  the setting of her novel and much of the narrative, a gift for researching  the backround into which she will write (I learned more about ceramics than  I ever knew there was to know!), and a talent for drawing pictures with  words that enthralled me.  I sound embarrassingly gushing, I know, but this  tale is so human and so easy to identify with - loving, losing, travelling  a long, painful, and lonely road, and coming full circle again.  How many  of us wouldn't wish for a second chance with a first love?  Buy this book,  and don't rush through it.	2000-02-27
US	50947573	R359GI9DM21PL	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Interesting, Though Not Tops	Having never read this author before, I have nothing to compare this work to.  That being said, I found the book enjoyable, a little better than the fluff passed off as romance in some works, but definitely not in the same  class with other, more complex stories.  An atrocity is committed against  the heroine by her own brother, and rescue comes from an unlikely quarter,  in the form of another sibling pair equally flawed.  The heroine seemed a  bit weak, but probably consistent with her time and culture.  The hero was  puzzling - on the surface, noble enough to allow himself to be used in the  rescue of a lady's, and his brother's honor, yet seemingly too cynical to  really accept such a role permanently.  I read Dunnett's six-book Lymond  series twice, at ten year intervals, and in retrospect, I can see some  parallels - I never could figure out Francis, either! The plot of this book  was fair - maybe I've been reading too many stories where Napoleon plays an  unseen cameo role, and I'm getting jaded.  At any rate, the book kept my  attention, and I didn't find myself skipping pages just to get to the end  to see what happened; I also, despite the flaws, found myself liking the  two central characters, and wanting a happy ending for them.  I'll have to  try some of JB's other books for comparison.	2000-02-27
US	50947573	R2OAFYL3FSI7HP	0505522349	752917625	Demon Prince (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	It Lost My Attention	This book starts out well, capturing the reader's interest with well-placed hints about the underpinnings of the story and the tensions between the characters.  About two-thirds of the way through, however, it  becomes tedious.  I found myself doing something I don't ordinarily do -  skipping pages, skimming just enough to keep abreast of the plot - which is  usually a clue that this isn't the story for me.  I was also somewhat put  off by the rapid introduction of sexually charged scenes.  These tend to  make the book seem immature - reminiscent of the early days of the  bodice-rippers.  The characters are also given to a lot of somewhat boring  mental dialog.  My favorite character, alas, was Lucifer the horse!   Nevertheless, there is a secondary character named Dane about whom the  reader is given just enough information to tantalize - might there be a  sequel?  Or a prequel?  If so, please, cut back on the mental talk,  introduce a little more character development through action, and hold off  on the sex until it unfolds more naturally!	2000-02-26
US	50947573	R10EZPZ6G6LTBF	0515124753	807632847	Snow in Summer (Haunting Hearts)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Not easy reading, but worth the effort.	Boy, this turned out to be tougher to read than I'd thought!  The author's style is convoluted, with the entire case of characters literally thrown at the reader in a very few pages.  I had to go back and reread parts of the  beginning in order to properly identify the characters' relationships to  one another, and the secrets in the plot are only hinted at for a fairly  long time.  Once I got over my surprise at how difficult the reading was, I  could appreciate the story.  I found myself thinking about the characters  even when I wasn't reading the book, a sure sign that they were drawn well  and with depth.  The author draws out the sexual tension between the two  protagonists in a way that keeps the reader going for more.  The villain is  a nicely created sociopath with little conscience; just when I thought he  was a harmless bother, he turned homicidal without a second thought!  I  even found a metaphor contained within the story, something I don't  normally find in this genre - one's heart is where the love is, not in a  box.  I recommend this book, but don't expect to be able to read it in one  sitting.  It's a little too complicated for that.	2000-02-26
US	50947573	R2NDJVT4ULPLXN	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Keeper	This was my first Quinn book and I was delighted.  The dialog is natural, fresh, and catches the reader by surprise because it reveals so much about the characters.  The characters themselves have some depth, which makes a  reader care about what fate the author will assign them.  The book is also  sensual without being so explicit that nothing is left to the reader's  imagination.  I won't summarize the story - that can be read elsewhere -  but suffice it to say that I find myself hoping we'll all hear about the  other characters in separate books, which is usually an indication that the  book is a keeper.  After all, if there are sequels, I'll need to refer back  to it to refresh my memory!  I happily recommend this book to anyone who  wants to get lost in a love story and feel good afterwards.	2000-02-23
US	50947573	R2X72YMTNN79VM	1573430226	529678938	Oracle	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Shallow Characters	I really like fantasy and time travel romance, because of the fairy tale quality it has, when it's done well.  However, I was disappointed by this book, chiefly because I found the characters so difficult to empathize  with.  I found the heroine to be shallow, childish, and selfish until the  last few scenes.  The dialog and her self-talk was adolescent and seemed  out of character for a person of her supposed education and abilities.  The  hero, surprisingly enough, was better drawn, although fairly stereotyped.   The story line was creative, and I felt that the author missed a chance to  do something really epic by populating it with such flimsy people.   Futuristic and time travel romance can easily become foolish if something  isn't done to give it depth and at least a semblance of credibility. That  has to come from the characters, since the reader already has to suspend  reality more than usual in this genre.  I wouldn't recommend this book, but  I hope the author keeps working on it, because the whole premise of the  story showed real creative promise, and I'm sure there's more where it came  from.	2000-02-23
US	50947573	R2EK7UUA9NU1PW	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Contemporary Romance In Medieval Costume	This is the second of TM's books for me, and the story concept captured my attention while the dialog and interactions between the characters kept it.  The problem of how to blend families (which is pretty much a contemporary  one) was told through the eyes of another time, and - yes - it was probably  historically inaccurate, but if you read for entertainment, then sometimes  you have to suspend belief!  The humor provided just the right counterpoint  to an otherwise heavy and potentially horrible situation, and the sexual  tension fed the comedy just fine for me.  I had been saving this novel as a  treat because I had read the excerpt posted by Amazon and had liked it so  much.  Buy this book if you like characters with whom you can empathize,  and a happy story.  Treat yourself!	2000-02-23
US	50947573	R3KOLUBQG3VHK2	0515127213	28187231	The Courtship	Books	2	2	2	N	N	I must be missing something.	This is the first Coulter book I have read, and I was surprised at how disappointed I was.  I found the characters thinly drawn and the dialogue so artificial that at times I felt as though I were watching auditions for  a high school play.  The period characters' fascination with erotic  discipline was contrived to the point of a farce, but it did make for some  giggles.  In fact, at times I thought the author might be doing just that -  teasing us with an absurd comedy.  I've heard that Ms. Coulter's other  books are excellent, and the story line did capture my imagination (even  though the characters got in the way at times!), so I will give her another  try in the future.  However, this one will go into my give-away bag.	2000-02-13
