US	50950639	R2CXQZPE7OD08Y	0815700938	885923222	Intangibles: Management, Measurement, and Reporting	Books	2	6	6	N	N	One side of the story	This book was published 2001 by Brookings as part of a pair; the other being Unseen Wealth <br /> <br />Lev's book comprised his view, whereas Unseen Wealth included about 20 views including Lev's <br /> <br />Lev is primarily concerned with helping the accounting industry fill its black hole; intangibles being the difference between market value and the tangibles that the 100 years rules of tangible accounting prescribe for. Formerly this blackhole was also known as goodwill. <br /> <br />The trouble is as the service and globally/locally networked economies compounded over the last quarter century, goodwill (or transparent trustflows of an organisation mapped in flows of productivities and demands and across to partnering organisations) became the larger dynamic explaining how most value compounds (both finacially and in human terms like learning, community, social progress that take more than 90 days to invest in and may have diverse views of development). <br /> <br />I dont find in Lev's book any answers to such issues as how to resolve the wicked assumptions that all tangible accounting revolve round. These include: <br />people are costs, only machines are investments <br /> <br />separate units, separate 90 day periods rather than want to map how they interact and compound in non-lonear ways <br /> <br />What is really needed for tracking, strategizing, transparently governing, leading, developing intangibles (and human relationships) is an opposite type of maths that value multiplies instead of separating out bottom lines as if everything in teh world adds up perfectly in 90 days periods. Whilst Unseen Wealth is clear about the magnitude of the Intangibles Crisis, Lev is not so clear. However, his work is the middleground and epicentre if you are looking at intangibles only from the perspective of what to do if you are intent on perpetuating the traditional accounting profession as nearly as possible as is.	2004-12-05
US	50950639	R3MJDXZE72UP11	095439593X	823077644	Troubled Water: Saints, Sinners, Truth And Lies About The Global Water Crisis	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Most amazing book series ever by a business person	Troubled Water is part of an amazing library of books Anita Roddick, global entrepreneur and founder of Body Shop, has spent much of the last 3 years authoring and is publishing simultaneously. <br /> <br />Troubled Water is likely to have extraordinary consequences for global corporations in the water and soft drinks industries. For years, this sector has been asked by poor countries to collaborate responsibly and not to try to take over water in countries where cumulatively a billion people already have no fresh water access. As the author of World Class Brands 15 years ago, and a marketer ashamed to agree with most of Naomi Klein's charges of how much badwill global marketing has needlessly compounded over the last decade and a half, it will need a heroic and deeply human response from the likes of Coca-Cola if it is to remain in top 10 global branding lists 5 years out. <br /> <br />It is fitting that within days of the publication of Troubled Water, the president of the World Bank has declared a war on global poverty. Over in Britain, from where I submit this review, you can be assured that Water will be the main activist theme aligning 20000 concerned people converging for the European Social Forum (October 2004), and celebrating the Brazilian led launch of the International Free Water Academy. It is time the people of the world took back the branding of the humanity of water, and 2005 is a year jammed full of large scale change networking events, each of which will pay special tribute to water as a symbol of human freedom. Troubled Water is a book of our times, the start of an activepeace movement as well as with your and my god's blessings a whirlwind contributor to James Wolfesohn's war on poverty. It would be fitting to pay tribute to his and Anita's common sense of humanity and water with the way the World Bank declares our future's interdependence at every locality of the globe:   <br /> <br />\\"The big issue of our time is global security. At present, weview it mostly through the lens of Baghdad or Beslan. While we certainly have to deal with these and other immediate concerns, by far, the greatest potential source of instability on our planet today is poverty, and the hopelessness and despair that it brings to so many in our world. Sixty years ago, the world recognized the need to bring hope to the millions of people left in shattered nations after World War II, and the World Bank was created to help them rebuild their lives. Its mission today remains as critical as it was then, if not more so. It is in all our best interests to help countries that struggle with crushing poverty to take basic steps, such as getting boys and girls into school; preventing diseases like H.I.V./AIDS, malaria and diarrhea; protecting our forests and oceans; and removing obstacles to trade so that poor farmers can get their products to market. Helping poor countries develop in this way is not merely the right thing to do ( though, of course, it is): investing in development is the safe thing to do. My generation did not grow up thinking this way. We thought there were two worlds - the haves and the have-nots - and that they were, for the most part, quite separate. That was wrong then. It is even more wrong now. The wall that many of us imagined as separating the rich countries from the poor countries came down on Sept. 11, 2001. We are linked now in so many ways: by economics and trade, migration, environment, disease, drugs and conflict. In our world of six billion people, one billion have 80 percent of the world's GDP, while the other five billion have the remaining 20 percent. Nearly half this world lives on less than $2 per day. One billion people have no access to clean water; over 100 million children never get the chance to go to school... <br />	2004-09-30
US	50950639	R3V4XQWO7DLK8S	1872410200	360051484	The Simultaneous Policy: An Insider's Guide to Saving Humanity and the Planet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Simultaneous, &amp; System Perfect	This is only one of three books that I know of that connects human relationships in an implementable framework. Its scope is policy to unite the world, somewhat bigger than my 2 simultaneous books: Brand Chartering and Intangibles Maps of Value Multiplication &amp; Trust-Flow governance.<br />Each book is part of the final examination curriculum that 1980s system thinkers including my father Norman Macrae of The Economist and Buckminster Fuller set us (as well as more implicit expressions of a paradigm shift concern by people like Peter Drucker). The whole human potential of being networked -and globalisation spinning positive humanitarian impacts - depends on managers changing their knowhow to see the compound but simple leadership ways of system connectivity and value exchange theory of the firm as the opposite to tangible accounting's axioms of separability. You can test any other book in the management genre against these 3 books, and most fail on the second loop of intangibles connections including as yet whole genres such as knowledge management (some have been theoretically right but those claiming practice have implemented within RoI's separation scorecards).<br />Simultaneous is an interesting interaction worldwide. It means have no fear- we can all change from national only policy to include the whole world at the same time. Something similar but smaller happened once before in corporate history when in the 1980s physical system quality was found to be immature in the West and everyone joined collaborative benchmarking syndiactes. It is to be hoped that the mother of all benchmarking waves will begin in time before the apartheid-ridden globalisation of trade causes us all to fail humanity's golden rule of relationship reciprocity.	2004-04-26
US	50950639	R3TCS0RMTR7HKM	1591391342	169342657	Strategy Maps: Converting Intangible Assets into Tangible Outcomes	Books	1	37	65	N	N	This is a sad book	When Brookings (Unseen Wealth) and the European Union released challenging reports on intangibles in the year 2000, the cat leapt out of the proverbial bag. Traditional accounting measurements don't answer the biggest corporate valuation question, and wherever they are thought sufficient to govern the knowledge of corporate performance, they erode a company's integrity quarter upon quarter. <br />The ink of these reports was hardly dry before extraordinary examples of companies losing all their purpose and all their value poured in - including Andersen the biggest of the traditional measurement firms regarding its roster of network economy clients , whom the world most needed to have their intangibles systemised truly.<br />Kaplan and Norton have jumped on the big issue but totally ignored the big question - of how does one assess what value the goodwill system of an organisation is spinning. Maths is already available in open source codes (see spaces such as valuetrue.com) to map the answer to that question, and other interesting ones such as is the integrity of the system compounding growth or destruction?, How fast?,  What methods can leaders use to intervene if value multiplication is at risk of heading towards zero? <br />The failure of Strategic Maps begins with lack of concept richness and flexibility. The intangibles wealth of an organisation needs to be modelled as a systemic whole, the organisation needs to be pictured as an infrastructure of relationships both of contextual productivity (service-learning-doing-leading) and value-demands from all core stakeholders. Instead of the Strategic Map's concepts visualised in activities, processes or competences, an exchange-based theory of the firm is needed to see every period whether win-wins trust flows between different stakeholders and cooresponding motivations (with postitive openness or negative politics) spreading across different knowledge working teams and communities who need to be truly sustained by contextually purposeful values. <br />All this becomes even more critical as you map the transparency of trust-flow between global partners (both corporations and democratic governments) whose borders need to be open if a worldwide market is to be served in a way that respects people's needs at every locality.<br />This is a sad book for many reasons. It ignores all the researchers that have dedicated much of the last 5 years to the big questions raised by Brookings and the EU at euintangibles.net. It misses all the humanity of organisations and living systems and the policy questions of human and social capital such as those indicated by the record low levels of trust in organisations monitored by the World Economic Forum. It omits huge questions concerning risk professionals on how conflicts compound in a highly networked age. Ultimately it misses all the research coming from Harrison Owen's Open Spaces (100000 innovation contexts studied and communally practiced) and Drucker's Claremont College on why joy of accomplishment is action-learning's energiser of every human being who wants to make a difference with their unique talents, and every organisation that values human beings. This book does not confront the assumptions of tangible accounting; the way this has historically used addition to separate the dynamics of goodwill whose trust-flows actually map through value multipliers so as to visualise highly connected 'ways ahead' - humanly interconnecting both how behaviours compound and what nature of emotionally intelligent values flow. It does not begin with the Brookings/EU puzzle that the whole networking and knowledge age and lifelong elearning our children will need addressed. So the big picture of 21st C organisation will continue to be blinded from leaders -however transparently they wish to govern- while organisations propagate the tangible auditor's century-old machine-age assumption that people are costs to cut while machines can be booked in as investments.<br />Chris Macrae, Mathematician &amp; co-author, THE MAP (Wiley 2004)	2004-02-03
US	50950639	RCOLIBMJL2H8F	1576750248	649514762	Open Space Technology: A User's Guide	Books	5	1	16	N	N	One of the most valuable books in the world	As Brookings revealed in 2000, most of the world's 10000 biggest organisations don't yet have the measures to govern the vast majority of value now produced in services and knowledge businesses because as our networking age blossoms value dynamics are mainly intangible, deeply woven into the human relationships we self-organise, not for precise planning and overpowering command and control from the top. Value multiplication is a core gravity which should be embedded in everyone's right to work, learn , behave openly. <br />Whilst some of those of the transparency communities interlinking at [...] open source the simplest maths of intangible systems, others have much more fun voting on what are the safest methods to protect your system from doing an Andersen or a NASA self-destruction of its greatest purpose. Open Space is voted as the number 1 method uniting transparency communities, and because of its simplicity I predict it will always be the gateway to anyone who prizes self-organising, a term which actually means making the most of everyone's time, learning and passions to make a diffeernce to our overall purpose. A very valuable book, which in my dreams would start any MBA course or any professional's training.<br />Open Space is now 21 years young and over 100000 experiences mature and networked by people who are both most open with their knowlhow and conscious that you learn something subly more about human relationship trust from every Open Space you particpate in. It is as near as organisations (seen as human relationship infrastructures) can get to a modern day miracle, and long may Harrison light up the open world. See his latest deep concerns with conflict resolution applications at [...]	2003-12-26
US	50950639	R2QP7G9DD0U76N	0750675926	580344629	The Innovation SuperHighway	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Living Bible of Knowledge Management	I use this title because:-<br />I would not trust a CEO, policy-maker or anyone with knowledge influence if he/she did not have this by her/his side, and make it live. In community, we need to know who we are being measured by these days, and how we measure them. This bible's identity can pass for that role.<br />My reasoning for this rating is that the book is incredibly open linking you through 100 KM gurus that Ms Amidon networks with as well as mapping how her own views on the most valuable ways forward. Her views clearly echo the humanity of Drucker - the founder of the term knowledge worker - as well as overtaking the most optimistic views of a networked society known to me through my father's futurist network at The Economist (from his first 1984 celebratory network economy bye bye to Orwell on [website] )<br />It is not that this delightful book replaces any other of my KM favourites including those that follow but it links them together as well as being the perfect introduction and inspiration to why knowledge age organisation will change your future so you might as well shape it too. Come join the biggest work-play of the century; dont be left out of the story.<br />St Onge on CoP<BR>McElroy on new KM<BR>Seely Brown on Social Life of Information<BR>Baker on Achieving success through Social Capital<BR>Edvinnson on Corporate Longitude<BR>Older but golden young: Sveiby on New Organisational Wealth<BR>Older but Eternal : Drucker Library<br />Chris Macrae, European Union sig editor for Knowledge Management & Emotional Intelligence at ...	2002-12-09
US	50950639	RBFWLYYNY2KWN	0025790900	560490196	The 2025 Report: A Concise History of the Future, 1975-2025	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Maps economics & society of internetworking age from 0-40	Norman Macrae worked at The Economist, spanning 5 decades as its most prolific editorial writer, during a period which saw the paper grow from 4th ranked British weekly to one-of-kind world leadership viewspaper.<br />In the late 1960s Macrae started writing annual surveys such as Discover Japan (for which 30 years later he received one of Japan's greatest honours - The Order of the Rising Sun).<br />The Annual Surveys increasingly blended future trends and human vision with economics in an unique way. Telecommuting was one of the words Macrae coined; like Drucker - a contemporary and intellectual frined - entrepreneurs, intrapreneurs , knowledge workers, multi-cultural fusions of competitive and collaborative innovation were early and regular heroes of Macrae's work. When Norman realised that computers would soon power the world's people to start internetworking, he wrote a book - published in 1984 in the UK (to celebrate bye bye to Orwell's Big Brother world) and in 1985 in USA - visioning the first 40 years of this \\"3rd great revolution\\" transporting human productivity and every kind of interpersonal connections. <br />Connectivity he opined would bring great progress economically and socialy, globally and particularly locally, as long as the world didn't let madmen blow it up. This would be quite a careless outcome but one which governments (both national and corporate) would be quite competent at managing (a word whose origin is to do with how people rule over horses) if they decided to cling to the last vestages of power and lack of transparency that the previously disconnected and mass mediated age had let them profit from. <br />Today, technology is posing that final examination of mankind (as Buckimister Fuller described it). Let's hope we transparently emerge from the other side, since I'd like my five year-old to enjoy the true benefits of what an internetworking century could achieve if we could all respect every human relationship we enter through realand virtual modes - recognising that those who are poorest need the most help and not to be taken advantage of by the most powerful and rich.<br />...<br />PS Other references for bookworms to the futurist school of global networking of the early eighties include Toffler and Naisbitt. Mathematically, Macrae completed his odyssey of researching the origins of the computer age - and the visions the founders hoped for it - when he wrote the biography of Johnny von Neumann as one of his first duties of retiring from The Economist.	2002-08-18
US	50950639	R36PXSGO8ETG4I	0609610813	500820691	How Companies Lie: Why Enron Is Just the Tip of the Iceberg	Books	4	2	5	N	N	from one little lie, a torrent flows	This book is interesting for two reasons. It simply catalogues much of technical information that investors will need to spot on their own for a long time to come now that we know how often auditors have crossed the line from serving the public shareholders to the top power barons. It also provides a good collection of system metaphors about how lies spread in organisations. This supports the mapping view we hold at the Transparency Community ...  Open Leaders should risk audit every broken stakeholder promise with a view to responsibly correcting the situation before the organisation loses control of trustflows across its relationships.<br />Ultimately Enron is the tip of the iceberg, because numbers will never be sufficient for corporate governance now that relationships - not just separate transactions - drive value. Most boardrooms are not corrupt but they have become blinded by numbers-measures that give little warning as to what will happen next to the company's valuation, especially if a big movement is systemtically likely. Until a second standard of corporate governance is introduced alongside quarterly numbers, valuation mapmakers would advise the small investor to keep away from investing in stockmarkets.<br />It would not seem to be in the vested interests of accountants to downsize their own auditing business to make room for true valuations of organisations as human relationship systems, so it could depressingly be a while yet before the corporate world makes significant process on valuation transparency. <br />chris macrae Transparency Community ...co-author The Map that Changes Our World (Wiley 2003)	2002-08-06
US	50950639	R3PZZDIFU2881O	0273653687	827690009	4-D Branding: Cracking the Corporate Code of the Network Economy	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Newest Top 10 Tool of Chief Brand Officer Association	We recommend this book and its toolkit to our members, providing this summary of what 4D branding trains you to do:<br />>Profile 4 dimensional branding you need:  lowest dimension \\"function\\" suits product & advertised models of brand execution, but inhibits top \\"spiritual\\" dimension that corporate and global brands need  >Experience futurised 4D  brands: capable of leading organisational change and interacting organisation-wide service of value >Simplify DNA of futurised brands - vision, mission, values, styling, positioning, flagship product - so that the company can live the brand once you've taken the essential Brand Code on tour across company >Refresh the 4D Brand by intranetting such exercises as :  concocting  brand recipe for every audience, creating a mental movie for being the best brand in the world >Know why most company brands are still far down the learning curve as organisms of the network economy, and how the ideology of 4D branding can help you futurise just ahead of the competition <br />4D Branding is currently one of the top 10 toolkits in our members catalogue of frameworks used by Brand Leaders<br />Chris Macrae...	2001-05-22
US	50950639	RV52RHV86M70F	0471496065	338392240	Brand Manners: How to Create the Self Confident Organization to Live the Brand	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A hugely original book for any company that lives branding	My impression is that this book is the most original addition to our literature since Kapferer's first edition of Strategic Brand Management in the 1990s. This does not necessarily mean that it will find a large audience though I hope it does.<br />Organisational brand linkages are embedded in the Brand Manners 4-dimensional framework by presenting two sides to every dimension : the customers and the company's. The four dimensions of the brand promise are named: Rational (What?) Emotional (How?) Political (Why?) Spiritual  (Whither)<br />The customer according to this model uses each of these dimensions to evaluate how integratedly a brand's promise is 'created', 'conveyed' and 'kept'.  On the corporate side, the mirror image to integrate is labeled as 'Encounters' with customers, 'Behaviours' involved and 'Rewards' that result. This provides 24 (ie 2 times 4 times 3) entries interlinked through The Brand Manners Book of Life....<br />Methodology represents about half the book. This is complemented by a rich variety of case studies, and a collection of practitioner briefs. These are called \\"brand manners how to guides\\" and are provided for each of :  Chief Executive, Marketing Director, Employee, Management and Customer!	2001-05-22
US	50950639	R3O3WHL6578S9G	0821820648	377941172	John Von Neumann: The Scientific Genius Who Pioneered the Modern Computer, Game Theory, Nuclear Deterrence, and Much More	Books	5	14	26	N	N	Links mathematics, internetworking, humanity &amp; productivity	My father wrote this book after retiring from his career long job as The Economist's longest serving staff writer. Here are some comments on what other reviewers have said.<br />It's true my father never studied for a phd in economics; if you'd just served in world war 2, got a first in economics in Cambridge and been offered a job at The Economist, you'd probably not have seen any practical point in that either. ( If you want to go into who knows what about 21st C futures, internetworking,intangible assets and new economics, I'm sure we can link you to that at [...] )<br />It may be that some of my father's admiration for Von Neumann also got blended with his world views. But Von Neumann's family -whom my father worked closely with - didn't want any of that blend diluted.<br />My father was aiming primarily to explain to everyone why Von Neumann was one of the 2 great mathematicians of the 20th century and what background great mathematicians grow up in. In trying to make that accessible to everyone, he clearly doesn't go into the depth of mathematics theory that might stimulate today's hundred greatest living mathematicians. Everyone else will probably find the mathematical content suitable for a biography which they want to learn from.<br />Moreover, Von Neumann was the first mathematician to insist that the subject's future lay mainly in teamwork facilitated by computing rather than individual mathematical power. Not every academic has understood that point the way Johy would have hoped.<br />chris macrae, wcbn007@easynet.co.uk Marketing Electronic Learning NETwork [...]	2001-03-06
US	50950639	R3384CDFAPCR4E	047135659X	729408980	The Masterbrand Mandate: The Management Strategy That Unifies Companies and Multiplies Value	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Brand at the Core of Leadership Architecture	This is the kind of management book which I hoped would becomeseminal when I coined the term Brand Architecture in the early1990s. Coaches of brand architecture train leaders in how investmentdecisions in the brand connect with all other investment decisionsincluding business model, strategic intent, organisational competencesand the company's \\"net\\" IQ.  The Masterbrand Mandate reinforcesthis theme by exploring how companies earn their profits when theytruly put one or two masterbrands at the core of everything they do,as well as everything they communicate and interactively learn. Inglorious practical detail, this book demonstrates how companies livetheir masterbrand charter: uniquely and purposefully leading the way:---&gt; in building to change with the net-driven economy ---&gt; byinterpreting the real leverage potential of .com as being aboutbuilding community around the brand which is worthy of customer trust---&gt; hyperlinking the brand propagation of value deep inside theorganisation and wide across partner networks thereby connectingculture, purpose and what the company is simply fastest at actionlearning ---&gt; enjoying brand integrity as the human right tooutmanouevre the competition and to web the brand's \\"glocal\\"platform for serving the worldwide communities which relate to andthrough the masterbrand<br />The Masterbrand Mandate is today's book forunderstanding why branding is core to multiplying the relationshipneeded to prosper in the new economy. I'd happily clarify if you needconvincing. <br />Chris Macrae (email wcbn007@easynet.co.uk), author ofBrand Chartering Handbook...	2000-09-25
US	50950639	R2V5XX30TLLLHR	1578511933	335820117	Digital Capital: Harnessing the Power of Business Webs	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Economic significance of business web relationships revealed	This isn't merely a seminal work but one that I see as essential for  anyone who is charged with navigating a major company in such  organisational connections as its strategy, marketing, or human  intelligence as a service/knowledge/relationship business. Back in 1984, my  father Norman Macrae and I wrote a book (The 2024/2025 Report - a future  history) which analysed why the future economic significance of the  internetworking age would take off once we started to realise that the  human freedoms to more knowlegdable work were more exciting than the  technology itself. Other authors have subsequently taken up this baton but  probably none so practically as Tapscott et al. Here are but two examples  of the kind of reformation and integration of leadership/management  disciplines that 21st C companies can make provided they have digested  Digital Capital in an open book manner.<br />1) Digital Capital provides a  5-way classification of how business webs expand value creation inj unique  ways for all stakeholders. Whilst I do not believe that these 5  classifications are comprehensive, they are certainly fundamental and  simple enough to provide the most relevant year 2000 challenge to every  business with a future.<br />2) In chapters on the reformation of human  resource and marketing functions, Tapscott issues the most powerful clarion  call yet made outside expert brand circles on the future 21st C purpose of  corporate branding. This will be reformed from the 20th Century's obsession  with image to proving itself as a trusted measure of relationship capital.  ..............................<br />Chris Macrae, author of Brand Chartering  Handbook. I would love to discuss the challenges of Digital Capital with  other readers. email  wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	2000-08-15
US	50950639	RTVK11H3TIATN	0471835765	338680554	Branding in Asia: The Creation, Development, and Management of Asian Brands for the Global Market	Books	5	7	7	N	N	exceeded my expectations wonderfully	My expectations were mainly about redressing the balance on geographical origins of brand case studies. Our literature suffers from being far too US centric. This imbalance is unfortunate for several reasons including: - living in the US for the last 2 years has taught me how atypical the US  consumer is of any other I have met in 25 countries that I have worked  -  from the oldest brand models (which assumed brands were advertising led) to  the newest ebrand models, there's huge share of voice reflecting  the  culture of corporate America and the case theories of its business schools.  These powerful systems shouldn't be unquestioningly exported as being de  facto paradigms for local organisational excellence or social value.<br />My  expectations were exceeded because this book - unlike most on the brand  which start with chapters on advertising and marketing communications -  opens up from the very beginning on the leadership importance of branding.  Here we are on pages 1-2: \\"Strong brands endure many challenges. This is  becoming increasingly relevant in an era of unprecedented change, upheaval  and uncertainty. This change is strategic, unlike the incremental change of  more predictable times, and therefore requires a strategic response. Brand  building is exactly such a response. If successful, it can be the strongest  weapon in a company's armory and the best guarantee of corporate survival.  The challenge that lies ahead is that of change management.<br />And by page  4, we're invited to join in a cataloguing of worldwide changes to  marketing: -the breakdown of market boundaries -globalization and the  development of global brands -increasing market fragmentation -product  diversity and shorter life cycles -greater customer sophistication -digital  business -economic instability and market volatility<br />So this book flies,  and yet at the same time when you read it you will continually pick up  useful advice whether your brain is looking for practical oracademic  stimulation. For example, the book closes with an appendix of very  worthwhile brand exercises, and it resonates with case studies, 24 in all.  Each case study ends with a summary of that brand's strengths. <br />This book  will be good for you whether this is the first one you read on branding, or  as in my case the twenty first, including two of my own. For example, I  learnt a lot from Temporal's consistently strong advice on brand values and  the way they shape corporate personality on its outside and inside.	2000-06-07
US	50950639	RIE7JPO3SQY84	0787952737	987514683	Clicks and Mortar: Passion-Driven Growth in an Internet-Driven World	Books	5	13	36	N	N	Every corporate leader with a future needs to read this book	The focus of my research and authorship is corporate branding and net-age leadership. Both, when realised for maximum human potential, revolve round making unique promises simply and earning the trust of all of the community that interacts with your company. The content index of this book provides a  more promising map for 21st C corporate value leadership than any outline I  can recall. As a cherry on the top, the book's finale makes you wonder wow  - why can't all worthwhile business books launch the erader into the future  in this way:<br />&quot;We used to have debates in undergraduate religion  classes about whether  prophets predict the future or create it. I came  down on the side of  creation because I'd seen the impact of declaration on  the action of  others. &quot;All men are created equal&quot; was not fact  until Jeferson and  others said it was so. When it was established by  declaration, everyone  who wanted it to be true took actio to make it real  and those who didn't  want it to be true took counteraction. So to me it  seemed reasonable  that declaration was an act of creation, not an act of  clairvoyance.<br />In that spirit we asked 8 people to join us in a dialogue  (a virual  conversation) about the future, on what we hoped would put some   rhetorical stakes in the ground, helping to create the future of   commerce.<br />Our group of 8: Steve Balmer, Microsoft President Leonard  Berry, Professor Texas A&amp;M, author discovering the soul od  service  1999 Tom Gerrity, Professor Wharton, Director of e-commerce forum Bill  Harris, Former President, Intuit Lew Platt, Chairman Hewlett Packard  Condoleexa Rice, former provost Stanford Erich Schmidt, Chairman/CEO Novell  Ann Winblad : co-founder of Hummer Winblad Venture Partners<br />To get the  dialogue started questions asked were:<br />Looking ahead 10 to 20 years:  other than technology and change  management, what factors will most affect  organizations' ability to  thrive?<br />It is often said &quot;employee and  customer loyalty are dead&quot;. To the extent  that this is true, what is  driving this perception. How do we reverse  it? Do we need to?<br />The  internet is certainly driving enormous price competition. What  beyond  price will matter to consumers and what will be valued most? How  will  companies differentiate themselves in an internet-driven world?<br />Is the  new technology like the telephone or the assemble line that will  transform  business, or is it the beginning of a revolution that will <br />have an  impact on every area of our lives? <br />chris macrae, author Brand  Chartering, contributing author The 2025 Report. editor of the special  issue of Journal of Brand Management: 21st C brandknowledege : human  relationships and e-branding	2000-04-17
US	50950639	R2LCE6WBC5ILRV	0684843846	367815033	The Soul at Work: Listen... Respond... Let Go	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Nobel should recognise this genre	The Nobel prize for economics has often been awarded for subjects of far less organisational value than complexity science - the emerging curriculum which authors Lewin and Regine develop in this book and encourage you to translate into practical action.<br />In my mind, every CEO `should' profit hugely from reading this book. However, to do so requires sharing a belief.  Namely that organisational decision-making now needs to be designed so that everyone is connected to relationship-building with stakeholders. This is a very different operating standard from the transactional one that most 20th C companies institutionalised.<br />So, for some the challenge of change will transactional dealings with people why should we change now to a own as a corporate marketer would be that the transparent communications nature of &quot;the net&quot; is changing everything. Read for example the with fellow marketers.<br />The authors' reply comes firstly from a human resources perspective. The following is an over-simplication of the story that resonates through their book. Today's organisations can't expect to keep on growing by swapping knowledge workers on ever shorter tours of duty before they're recruited by someone else. Designing into work an environment in which a knowledge worker passionately connects his or her own skills with serving stakeholders is the smart way forward. Ultimately, most humans care more about working to make a difference than the short-term figures on the paycheck. Recent interviews show the emergence of a critical mass of companies that understand this picture, and are working to realise it by truly caring about the people relationships they have with every type of stakeholder. If one of your competitors has matured into this 21st C of organisational being and you haven't, how long do you have before each of your types of stakeholders discovers this and quits you for a place where everyone has more soul at work and more integrity in the way externalcustomers are related to?<br />The following extract provides an insight into why this book's human curriculum should be worth your while they have a mutual effect on one another something novel emerges. Anything that enhances these interactions will enhance the creativity and the adaptability of the system. In human organisations, this translates into agents as people, and interactions with mutual effect as being mutual respect, and have a mutual influence and impact on each other. From this emerges genuine authenticity and care. Care is not a thing but an action - to be care-full - to care about your work, to care for fellow workers, to care for the organisation, to care about the community.  Companies guided by complexity science use open and prolific communication - a system grounded in genuine care that enhances relationships - with CEOs engendering trust and loyalty in their people, and the people being more willing to contribute to the needs of the company...\\"	2000-03-08
US	50950639	R3HZYRIF782DU6	073820210X	270625807	Simplicity: The New Competitive Advantage in a World of More, Better, Faster	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Simplicity &amp; Cluetrain - the dynamic duo your 21st C needs	Perseus publishers have started the 21st Century with two immensely challenging books to the way big business is organised for stimulating common sense relationships between employees and customers. <br />The Cluetrain Manifesto is the colourful book of this dynamic duo. It paints  all the human advantages that the age of the internet and internetworking  can bring. And as it does so, alarm bells ring as to how few corporate  leaders know how to action the highly energised integrity of purpose that  resonates through a clued up community where human beings converse about  valuable solutions for real needs. To converse with a community (aka your  marketplace) unlearning how to shout at the market - where image leads  relationship -  is part of the magic box that 21st Century leadership  must-needs discover.<br />In contrast, \\"Simplicity - the Competitive  Advantage\\"  develops a black (complexity) and white (simplicity) prognosis  based on a huge amount of practitioner research. The core thread which  develops is both shocking, obvious - and arguably the key to Cluetrain's  magic box. Those researched explain that the information which employees in  an e-business and digitally empowered world will have to deal is doubling  every three years. Surely the key to knowledge will only be turned if a  company's organisation helps every employee to filter out which of this  information is: 1) actionable for that employee's purpose, 2) needs to be  shared with another employee whose shared purpose it is to action it, 3) is  noise that needs to be filtered out so that employee and company  concentrate on their focus.<br />So here's the wake up call loud and clear. In  \\"Simplicity:  The Competitive Advantage\\" we have all the evidence any judge  would need to conclude that many big organisations are busy making work  complex rather than simple. When an employee drowns in information, the  human kinds of things that happen are stress, lack of time for other human  things like yourfamily, or just de-energising of the workplace. Look at  the following extracts - does this ring a bell with you?<br />\\"A weird shift  happens when the companies we work for grow large. We start believing that  corporate logic - The Plan, The Process, The Whatever -actually governs the  choice we make. Whereas simplicity of organisational design should be based  on human nature and common sense, not corporate logic. To do this : 1) make  the assumption that most people want to do the right thing and make a  difference. 2) recognise that we're living in a world of infinite choices,  and most people are truly struggling to figure out what will make that  difference. (Remember that even if you've created shared mindset, the human  need to make one's own choices will play out over time).  Conclusion :  create order through clarity; invest in how people really make choices.  This means understanding why the workforce view of integration in the new  economy isn't that of old leadership: New Workforce \\"Integration is the  ability to bring together the information I need at one place at one time  so I can make a decision that leads to success\\". Old Leadership :  \\"Integration is the ability to bring together all the systems, structures,  processes, people, capital etc so that the organisation can implement the  strategic plan\\".<br />Don't dismiss the meaning of the above paragraph before  you've read this book. In this space, I will just quote one more view of a  senior executive surveyed: \\" I know my industry is going through massive  change. So what? What troubles me is that nobody at my company has  interconnected how we change.\\" He continued : \\"Our intranet content isn't  linked to our quarterly projects, which aren't connected to our performance  management system, which doesn't jibe with compensation design, which  doesn't match our departmental goals, which aren't supported by training,  which ... you get the idea\\".<br />Simplicity and Cluetrain Manifesto are  fingering the biggest leadership issue confronting the current generation  of human beings. In 1984 Norman Macrae of The Economist wrote The 2024  Report - one of the first futures books to portray the enormous social and  business wealth to be created by the internetworking age. My father was  wrong to predict that the summit of this advance for humankind would be  happening circa 2024. It will happen in this decade, or stall for a  generation if leaders don't get simple and get clued. And everyone can be  involved now in this outcome. To rediscover human common sense in the  digital age, we need to connect up openly curious thinkers and leaders. One  experiment towards this goal is starting up (late February) at : brandknowledge.com. <br />Here you will find a worldwide  panel of over 30 common sense sages - including representative authors of  the 3 books I have mentioned - ready and waiting to answer useful questions  on the organisational challenges ahead. Equally, if you know somebody who  should be connected with this panel's purpose, please e-mail me Chris  Macrae at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	2000-02-09
US	50950639	R9CUBYJQ07DT0	0738202444	559170405	The Cluetrain Manifesto	Books	5	4	5	N	N	the meaning of an epoch	It's quite important that this book sells more than any otherbusiness book since Amazon started keeping records Only if this book gets the kind of epoch-changing reception that eg In search of Excellence did in its time, will companies start to make real use of the internet as the 21st C medium defining business models, society and improvement of the human lot. Learn as you engage with the train's fury why the internet works as an entirely different media from the television spot. With huge opportunities and risks for those companies who get the message.  I was a contributing author to the 1984 book the 2024 report mainly written by Norman Macrae. The main future scenario we developed was the way an internetworked world would change everything (for the human good). So far the world's just on the schedule we envisioned, but we are incredibly disappointed by how many commercial web sites have been developed as if they were still using a one way communications medium.  And it is now clear that most of the biggest companies in the world still have business cases that are the opposite of best net practice. It really is time that every CEO got Cluetrained. Otherwise a lot of sincere employees are going to pay the cost in companies whose CEOs missed the train......Chris Macrae, wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	2000-01-13
US	50950639	R1DM2YTI3HZUGL	0446525685	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	5	42	44	N	N	prepare for millennium 3 with this book	Gates does a fine job of explaining how digitalisation will impact an office near you, and does this in a language which is so simple that even the average fiftysomething of a 20th Century boardroom will understand the wake-up call. The case of Bill Gates explaining e-business to board of  directors of a German financial institution is worth the book price by  itself. This case concludes that three revolutionary business shifts are in  motion:<br />1 Most transactions between business and consumers, business and  business, and consumers and government will become self-service digital  transactions. Intermediaries will evolve to add value or perish.<br />2  Customer service will become the primary value added function in every  business. Human involvement in service will shift from routine, low value  tasks to a high-value, personal consultancy on important issues -problems  or desires - for the customer.<br />3 The pace of transactions and the need  for more personalised attention to customers will drive companies to adopt  digital processes internally if they have not yet adopted them for  efficiency reasons. Companies will use a digital nervous system to  regularly transform their internal business processes to adapt to an  environment that constantly changes because of customer needs and  competition.	1999-11-20
US	50950639	R3TCYKPIPKQZZR	0283991135	587724278	2024 Report: A Concise History of the Future, 1974-2024	Books	5	8	9	N	N	40 years of the internetting age as visioned in 1984	When my father (Norman Macrae who deputy edited The Economist for most of last half century) and I  wrote this book in 1984 , we wanted to say  Goodbye to Orwell - and his Big Brother fears for the human race. We did  this by visioning an internetting age which my father dubbed the 3rd - and  greatest - transport revolution created by human beings. Our time scenarios  have been out by a years or so as in any good future narrative, but the  megatrend of the global internetting age is just about on track to enter  the 3rd millennium. When we wrote the book in 1984, critics slammed us as  the most optimistic futurists ever to go to print. If we were revising the  book today, we'd have to raise the optimistic gear more than ever. The next  decade will be make or break for seeding the promise of e-business and  e-society. We believe this is the most imaginative time for being alive  that human beings have had the luck - and indeed the responsibility to make  happen. sincerely, chris macrae, wcbn007@easynet.co.uk chief infomediary ,  brandknowledge.com	1999-10-25
US	50950639	R1FVQIFHUE4AHF	0471295604	367096346	Survival of the Smartest: Managing Information for Rapid Action and World-Class Performance	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a large leap forward for humanity -and IQ - of organisations	The importance of this book can be judged by any employee asking why can't we work in an organisation which is better developed on the author's 5 Organisational IQ factors:<br />1 EXTERNAL INFORMATION AWARENESS, ie each part  of our organisation captures external information (customers, technology  opportunities, competitors' actions) quickly and accurately<br />2 EFFECTIVE  DECISION ARCHITECTURE, ie in our organisation decisions are made at the  right level (by the people with the best information and perspective). As a  result decisions : are made quickly, have high quality, instill ownership  and accountability<br />3 INTERNAL KNOWLEDGE DISSEMINATION, ie each part of  our organisation knows what it needs to know when it needs to know it.  Effective information flows 4-dimensionally: Horizontal, cross functional  Top-down, org-wide goals and priorities Bottom-up, operational challenges  and opportunities Learning, review over time of all of above<br />4  ORGANISATIONAL FOCUS, ie organisation systematically fights overload and  complexity by: Limiting scope of the business; focusing on core  competences; simplifying processes<br />5 CREATING AN INFORMATION AGE BUSINESS  NETWORK, ie Organisation maximises the value of eternal partnerships by  applying the above 4 High IQ factors to the entire business network<br />Would  love to share experiences with anyone working or reading up on how to  improve organisations IQ factors<br />chris macrae, chief infomediary,  brandknowledge.com e-mail wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1999-10-04
US	50950639	R3OKXY26HLSHRU	0887309984	512567974	Management Challenges for the 21st Century	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mostly dead right in recommendations but how to apply them?	I loved the first chapter of this book -explaining every organisational thing that's gone wrong with both marketing and performance measurement the last few decades, and with stockmarkets increasing lydiscounting perfectly  organised companies , the increasing gap between image and reality is  getting urgent if we don't want the business at the &quot;speed of  thought&quot; bubble to burst into a huge depression. Indeed Drucker  admonishes us that as the 20th century management science began with time  and motion methods applied to manual workers we now desperately need a  &quot;Promise and e-motion&quot; toolbag for knowledge-worker organisation.  But then this first chapter appeared in Forbes last year.<br />Some of the  other chapters , I found less good or indeed rehashes of other Drucker  books. BUT overwhelmingly when I finish a Drucker book I feel a slight  depression. A lot of wisdom, but how will I apply it - and get others to  participate in applying it. Would love to discuss with anyone who   reads  this book and then feels more confident that I on how to action the whole  Chris Macrae e-mail wcbn007@easynet.co.uk plus some reader dialogue to date  [online].	1999-06-20
US	50950639	R2XMGXHVFQX914	0446525685	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Mixture of obvious and bold foresight	You could read much of this book and think to yourself: this is obviously where the future is going. Indeed I may be especially prone to this feeling of deja prevu, because my father first Norman Macrae of The Economist first  wrote a book exploring the future scearios of a networked world of business  and consumers back in 1984 - as a celebratory Goodbye to Orwell. But take  another look, and ask yourself how many of Gates' lead recommendations are  CEOs of big companies acting on or even fully knowledgable about. In  telling them to wake up to the digital age or go out of business, his  message is a bold call for action. Macraes would particularly enjoy  debating with like minded readers examples of the best actions of the  following types of Gatesian Do Nows: 1) The internet will help achieve  &quot;friction-free capitalism&quot; by putting buyer and seller in     direct contact and providing more information to both about each other.  ..Only a few    businesses will succeed by having the lowest price, so most  will need a strategy that  includes customer service. If you take a service  approach, arm your knowledge workers        with digital information tools  to connect with customers and manage those    realtionships...Do you have a  single infrastructure to support applications for your                   internal knowledge workers and your customers?....2) To win big, you  sometimes have to take big risks. Risk supported by digital information  flow may be the single biggest way to create product and market  breakthroughs.3) Time to market is shrinking for every business...The most  important &quot;speed&quot; issue is often not technical but cultural. It's  convincing everyone that the company's survival depends on everyone moving  as fast as possible...4) Knowledge management starts with business  objectives and processes and a recognition of the need to share  information. Knowledge management is nothing more than managing information  flow, getting the right information to the right people who need it so they  can act on it quickly...Do you have a digital repository where you preserve  and augment your organisation's accumulated knowledge? Do your digital  systems allow numerical and non-numerical data to be accessed together? Can  employees, partners and suppliers get access to appropriate corporate  knowledge with a few simple commands? Do your information systems ensure  that proper reviews happen as products move through development?	1999-05-04
US	50950639	RCL3W8WYFJHG8	087584765X	445817406	The Smart Organization: Creating Value Through Strategic R&D	Books	5	4	7	N	N	One of the best organising frameworks I've met	The Strategic Decisions Group framework for smart organisation is informative. One reason for this is that the authors are reporting a practical benchmark study of R&amp;D which appears to include every American corporate I've ever heard of. They do readers the great favour of synthesising this into a 9 principle framework for Smart Organisation.  3 principles for achieving purpose: -continual learning -value creation culture -creating alternatives  3 principles for mobilizing resources: -open inforamtion flow -disciplined decision making -alignment and empowerment  3 principles for understaning environment: -systems thinking -embracing uncertainty -outside-in strategic perspective  What I especially like is that for each principle 5 How do you knows? are given scaling the difference between an organisation which hasn't got a clue about the principle (not smart) to one that lives it (smart org)  For example these are the 5 how-you-knows of alignment &amp; empowerment:  1 Examine the strategies at different levels (eg technology strategy to portfolio strategy to project startegy). In smart org: there are clear strategies at all levels taht provide useful guidance for decision making. Strategies at one level are clearly linked to the next. Lower level strategies interpret and carry out the implementation of higher-level strategies. In not-smart: few strategies or they provide little guidance for decision-making. They are viewed cynically as corporate PR. Links among strategies are absent, unclear or ambiguous  2 Examine the value measures used to evaluate decisions at different levels. In smart org: there are clear measures of value at all levels. Value measures at one strategic level are clearly linked through the strategy to measures at the next level. In non-smart: There may be no value measures. If there are, each level sets its own values or decision criteria, with no special requirement that they be related to values and strategies at other levels.  3 Examine the approvals required to make or carry out important decisions. In smart org: Decisions require few approvals because people understand the strategy and are trusted to carry it out. Meetings with upper management are viewed as adding value. In not-smart: Decisions require many levels of approval. Review meetings are perceived as wasting time. Often meetings with upper management are feared because it may redirect efforts and change priorities without clear reason. Upper management often feels overloaded with the need to check on subordinates.  4 Examine the roles of people involved in an important recent decision. In smart orgs: Many people participated in the decision process,at multiple levels in the organisation. A dialogue was carried out in the process that continually aligned and refined the vertical links. Management at different levels collaborated to build a high quality decision and achieved aligned commitment to action. In non-smart: Either few people participated in the decision or so many did that the process got bogged down. Typically, lower level employees make proposals to upper levels for approval or rejection  5 Examine a recent decision that was controversial. In smart org: People unified around the decisions aand carried it out with little intervention. They understood the reasons for the decision and believe the organisation is carrying out a sensible strategy for creating value. In non-smart: The decision did not stick and was undone or remade over and over again.   100+ of us are discussing frameworks like these in a free e-mail group : Organising Creativity Network. e-mail me, Chris Macrae, at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk if you are passionately interested.	1998-04-20
US	50950639	R2DKPG8TIEMV70	0750631325	986086766	Drucker on Asia: A dialogue between Peter Drucker and Isao Nakauchi	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eavesdrop on brilliant Western &amp; Eastern minds	For a book whose English language version is less than a year old, The title &quot;Drucker on Asia&quot; has not lasted well. You won't find much here that directly relates to Asia's current crisis of (economics) confidence, immature banks etc. The price for this slim book is also high. All this is a pity because there are various interesting lessons to be discovered in this published conversation between Peter  Drucker and the Japanese Retail visionary Isao Nakauchi. One of my favourites has little directly to do with Asia - it stems from this question which Isao sets up for Peter to answer: &quot;How can the individual and especially the individual in knowledge work maintain his or her effectiveness? Drucker replies by doing a few      simple things well: 1) Maintain a goal or vision - his own &quot;to keep on      striving&quot; means that one matures but does not age. 2) Take the view Phidias      took of his own work &quot;the Gods see it&quot;. People who take this view are not      willing to do work that is only average; they have respect for the integrity of      their work; in fact they have self-respect. 3) Build continuous learning into      the way you live - Drucker has done this by taking up a new subject to      study every 3 years of his life! 4) Like the Jesuits of the 16 century, build a      review of your performance into your work. Do this by keeping a record of      results/decisions and comparing these with previously enumerated      expectations. This teaches you what you are good at and what you're not      good at. I question whether these are simple things to do unto yourself, but then Drucker adds one more      irresistible experience-based advisory:&quot;Again and again, when I ask      effective people to explain their success, I hear that a long-dead teacher or      boss challenged them and taught them that whenever one changes one's      work, one's position, one's assignment, one thinks through what the new      job, the new position, the new assignment requires. Always it requires      something different from what the preceding job or the preceding      assignment required&quot;. I would be delighted to e-mail dilaogue with other readers of this book on favourite learnings. E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk - Chris Macrae, editor of MELNET [...] and author of &quot;Brand Chartering Handbook - how brand organisations learn living scripts&quot;.	1998-01-10
US	50950639	R3398BQ8XAV9D0	0749420693	590832632	Strategic Brand Management: Creating and Sustaining Brand Equity Long Term	Books	5	5	8	N	N	kapferer clarifies - brand management is in its infancy	Before brand image and positioning, other things are needed. Kapferer explains why these include : identity, vision/purpose, brand architecture and charter. All ways of integrating marketing as an organisation-wide learning process. Every brand owner needs a copy of this book. If you'd like to form a discussion group debating key lessons on branding (and when it is/isn't the most valuable corporate asset), please e-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk. Sincerely, Chris Macrae, author Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; editor MELNET [...]	1997-10-24
US	50950639	R2LZIYFJU95KJ1	0875845401	230305550	When Lean Enterprises Collide: Competing Through Confrontation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Why Japan Inc doesn't let accountants rule marketing	The book is fascinating for its insights on target costing in addition to the better known Japanese working concepts of target quality and time to market in developing next generation products. It is suggested that everyone in the business team should vision what mix of quality features, price, and in-market date will be competitive, and then target these aims relentlessly. Processes must be tailored to fit them, and innovation priorities are defined by these goals. So target costing, for example, becomes the whole development team's job. Meanwhile accounting (and other performance) measures are seen as a distraction - open a separate book on them as a formality if necessary - but don't let them get in the way of the lean marketing learning organisation. The one disappointment of this book is that the twenty or so case studies of Japanese companies on which it is based are not included in it. For the full story, you will have to buy each Harvard case study. If you would like to discuss this book or how it impacts western measurement notions, eg te Balanced Scorecard, e-mail Chris Macrae at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-10-23
US	50950639	R15GMAB12B8P4N	0875844480	815766971	The Loyalty Effect: The Hidden Force Behind Growth, Profits, and Lasting Value	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Why is something as vital as loyalty so hard to organise?	I am fascinated between the connections between my writings (eg Brand Chartering handbook) on branding which I define as the business process of continuously building value added relationships with all core stakeholders and Frederick Reichheld's book &quot;The Loyalty Effect - the hidden force behind growth, profits and lasting value&quot;. I interpret this book, as quoted from in Table below, as providing independent chapter and verse on the lifetime purpose of marketing learning organisations. No matter that the brand itself is not mentioned in the index, no punch is held back in admonishing all who destroy a leader's position through their short-term customs.   Table of quotes from The Loyalty Effect  (pages 3/4)  &quot;Today's accounting systems often mask the fact, but inventories of experienced customer, employees, and investors are a company's most valuable assets. Their combined knowledge and experience comprise a firm's entire intellectual capital. Yet these invaluable assets are vanishing from corporate balance sheets at an alarming rate, decimating growth and earnings potential as they go. In a typical (western) company today, customers are defecting at the rate of 10 to 30 percent per year; employee turnover rates of 15 to 25% are common; and average investor churn now exceeds 50 percent per year. How can any company be expected  to grow a profitable business when 20 to 50% of the company's most valuable inventory vanishes without trace each year? It's a nearly impossible challenge...A few companies - we'll call them loyalty leaders - have decided to forego the challenge by plugging the leaks in their balance sheets. These firms have discovered how to acquire the long-term loyalty of customers, employees, and investors and so have changed the fundamental economics of their businesses. While competitors struggle to generate growth and cash flow, these  companies thrive...(page 6) &quot;It may sound as if loyalty and profits are in conflict. If business were a zero-sum game, that would be true; any given pay increase or price reduction would be a tradeoff against increased profits. Investors could make more money only at the expense of customers and employees, and vice versa. But business is not a zero-sum game, and the putative conflict is a misunderstanding. To resolve it, we have to break out of the snapshot mentality and recognise that there are two kinds of profit. Call the first kind  virtuous; it's the result of creating value, sharing it, and building the assets of the business. The word for the other kind of profit is destructive. Destructive profit does not come from value creation and value sharing; it comes from exploiting assets, from selling off a business's true balance sheet. This is a kind of profit that justifies terms like profiteering, gives business a black eye, and actually shortens the life expectancies of businesses that  seek it.&quot;  ........................  The blossoming information age heralds an era of both unprecedented wealth production and of extraordinary organisational change. Against which a salient note of caution must be : how many of today's big companies will learn the new marketing-relationship game rules in time? How many will put Reichheld into organisation-wide effect and earn the well balanced loyalty of all their stakeholders? If your spirit is with Reichheld but your organisation isn't yet, we are rehearsing how to make the great changeover in time via free e-mail summits. For further info,  please e-mail me .........................................................................................................Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET                      [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-07-24
US	50950639	RMHQ8R3M9Q66U	0805812849	842705996	Brand Equity & Advertising: Advertising's Role in Building Strong Brands (Advertising and Consumer Psychology)	Books	5	6	18	N	N	A turning point in the genre of brand communications	This book does not really adress questions like how does the brand fit with strategy or an organisation's core competences. But it does a superb job of illustrating the huge variety of ways that creativity can be embedded into a brand's communication relationships with consumers. If you're interested in forming an e-mail discussion group on this or other outstanding books on branding contact me. Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook and MELNET                     [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-07-08
US	50950639	RGSE9SYTDNW0E	0385260954	444590559	The Fifth Discipline: The Art & Practice of the Learning Organization	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must buy IF...	A must buy if you wish to think at all about any organisation you work in.   Senge takes readers on a journey through five levels of  organisational learning, each interconnecting what motivates individuals to  learn, to share knowhow with colleagues and the steps leaders must take  to stop organisations getting dumber and dumber (some would say  dumbing happens by default unless leaders are proactive about learning) :     &quot;Personal Mastery&quot; which is about individual motivation and focus;     Three levels, namely &quot;Mental Models, Shared Vision and Team  Learning&quot; which progressively show how intricate teamworking  intelligence  needs to be to win the most organisational advantage,     And the Fifth Discipline : &quot;System Archetypes&quot;.     If people in your organisation are not aware of systems archetypes, everyday decision-making is more likely to be vicious than virtuous. The company or society that recognises - and therefore knows how to avoid being tripped up by - these archetypes is likely to be an unbeatable competitor. Looked at another  way select such an organisation as a most valuable partner provided your  organisation can keep up with such systematic intelligence.     Senge is one of the favourite works of our virtual network Organising Creativity. For further details, do contact me. Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook and MELNET                      [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-07-08
US	50950639	R2TXGOM6NNT6WF	1557388954	548093556	The Mythmakers: How Advertisers Apply the Power of Classic Myths and Symbols to Create Modern Day Legends	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Understand Identity before you jump to valuing brand equity	In a wicked world, where brands as the world's most valuable property rights, get valued by accountants before understanding why consumers value them (would consumers really miss anything if your brand didn't exist?), Randazzo comes as a ray of golden light - or should I say some much needed fresh air?... Explaining both how deep the myths are that the best ad agency creatives build into branding, and how these become an inventory of coded associations in consumers' minds. If I (as consumer) know a brand well, I probably id with it in at least 20 ways: some personal, some mythological/cultural, some related to its joy of use, service integrity, and leadership capabilities of the company behind the brand. Before you buy up a brand, you need to play with this jigsaw of identities - to build (commuication of) a beautiful mental picture not one of contradictory promises; to decide which ids connote what, which need to be phased out or newly planted in if your brand's leadership meanings are to be those you intend in customers' minds and lives; to give you the window of opportunity to be glocally meaningful (different ids for different folks) wherever your global market is. If you would like to join an e-mail group discussion on how to make the most of your brand's identifying relationships, please contact me .......................... Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-05-01
US	50950639	R2VVB37MEHGBLT	0201524015	932441873	The Creative Edge: Fostering Innovation Where You Work	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Indispensably practical	A book written with the engaging simplicity of a master of the field; you'll learn a lot from it how ever great your previous knowledge of creativity. Do you feel passionately about &quot;Organising Creativity&quot;, if so our worldwide e-mail network would be delighted to connect with you.................................................................................... Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-04-29
US	50950639	RXXHA0YDH9OG3	1857881656	391991453	Managing Without Management: A Post-Management Manifesto for Business Simplicity	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Just when you thought you were safe from witch doctors..	I don't know whether this book should be called Witch Doctors Part 2 (see Micklethwait's and Wooldridge's book) or vice versa theirs should be called Managing Without 2. Anyway, this book goes further than fingering management consultants as witches, and questions whether boards of directors in command and control organisations are to blame. Perhaps, they buy complex management consultancy to keep themselves occupied, intellectually or worse to make themselves an indispensable fixture as all else changes. How many top people rush into downsize everyone else than themselves? I think that the UK House of Parliament makes an excellent example of an organisation which will protest that it's willing to change anything apart from its top members' privileges. Why on earth does a country the size of the UK need to be governed by 650 + politicians in an era of interactive information? You don't need to be a modern day Guy Fawkes to join our witch doctors club which questions which management consultants and company boards are passionately, relentlessly, creatively worth their meal ticket? Join us to try to sort out the good, the bad and the ugly in the games that turn of the century company leaders - and their court jesters - play with their people and their consistent, boundaryless right to learn... ...............................................................................<br />Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...]<br />E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-04-29
US	50950639	R17G5THL4AOASY	075069792X	13291577	The Intelligence Advantage: Organizing for Complexity	Books	5	13	13	N	N	McMaster rivals Nonaka's Knowledge-Creating Company	Arie de Geus, whose view of The Living Company appears in Harvard Business Review M/A 1997 says of this book: &quot;We will fail to realise the potential of organisations until we see them as organisms in their own right and intelligence is the source of an organisation's capacity for survival. These are the basic hypotheses in Mike McMaster's thinking which, then, leads towards his illuminating ideas on organisational design and away from much of the mechanistic thinking of recent management theory&quot;.  Sample David's view on innovation (page 133): &quot;Corporations that are known for innovation are specifically designed to create occasions for innovation and support innovative activities. They include reward systems, communication practices, investment, blending people and ideas and appropriate reporting structures. In corporations not specifically designed for innovation, the innovative capacity is mostly displayed by individuals who are sufficiently powerful to get their ideas accepted. Given the lack of design to support such activity, the relative organisational innovative expression in such corporations is quite low.&quot; McMasters goes on to define innovation but notice some carefully chosen nuances in the words he uses; &quot;Our operational definition of innnovation is THAT ACTIVITY WHICH RESULTS IN A CHANGE THAT HAS USEFULNESS BEYOND A CURRENT APPICATION AND THAT ALTERS THE ABILITY OF THE SYSTEM AS A WHOLE&quot;. Innovation increases the flexibility, complexity or computational ability of the larger system.&quot; Innovation is not therefore a natural thing for corporate boards to direct if they are paying too much attention to counting up last quarter's figures or downsizing your future. Anyway, McMasters goes on to discuss many other subtleties regarding creativity. For example : &quot;In a group or team, creativity occurs in dialogue itself. An individual may have originated and be indentified with a creative idea. Yet, if an idea is a group creation, it is the result of the interplay of the participants, both for and against the idea. Each individual has contributed to the thinking, the creative process and the creation itself in ways that are not always obvious.&quot; If you feel passionately about questioning the value of constructs like these - would you like to join a worldwide e-mail summit on ORGANISING CREATIVITY? To do so e-mail me,                  Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET                     [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-04-24
US	50950639	R1KUTNN1X60NL1	0195092694	252242420	The Knowledge-Creating Company: How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The hidden organisational agenda of Japanese success	Why have Japanese companies become successful? This book offers a new explanation. It is argued that success of Japanese companies is not due to manufacturing prowess; access to cheap capital; close and cooperative relationships with customers, suppliers and government agencies; or lifetime employment and other human resources management practices - although all of these factors are important. Instead the claim is made that Japanese companies have been successful because of their skills and expertise at &quot;organisational knowledge creation&quot;. This term is defined as the capability of the company as a whole to create new knowledge, disseminate it throughout the organisation, and embody it in products, services, and systems.   The book's case studies demonstrate that this is the golden key to the distinctive ways that Japanese companies innovate continuously, incrementally and spirally.     Rugby provides a metaphor for the speed and flexibility with which Japanese companies develop new products - as in rugby, the ball gets passed within the team as it moves up the field as a unit. The ball being passed around in the team contains a shared understanding of what the company stands for, where it is going, what kind of a world it wants to live in, and how to make that world a reality. Highly subjective insights, intuitions, and hunches are also embraced. That's what the ball contains - namely, ideals, values, and emotions.     Ball movement in rugby is borne out of the team members' interplay on the field. It is determined on the spot (&quot;here and now&quot;), based on direct experience and trial and error. It requires an intensive and laborious interaction among members of the team. This interactive process is analogous to how total knowledge is created organisationally.     This book calls for a fundamental shift in thinking about what the business organisation does with knowledge. Two kinds of human knowledge are distinguished. One is &quot;explicit knowledge&quot; which can be articulated in formal language including mathematical expressions and manuals. This kind of knowledge can be transmitted across individuals formally and easily. It has been the dominant mode of knowledge in the Western philosophical tradition. The Japanese company adds a second type of knowledge, &quot;tacit knowledge&quot; which is hard to articulate with formal language. This more personal form of knowledge is embedded in individual experience and involves intangible factors such as personal belief, perspective and the value system. In the West, tacit knowledge has been overlooked as a critical component of collective human behaviour. In contrast, tacit knowledge - and diffusion of learning from individual to team to organisation is a critical source of Japanese companies' competitiveness. Unless you understand this, Japanese management - and the way they win the business team game - will remain an enigma. Why not ready yourslef by discussing hidden knowledge-building agendas in our e-mail summit &quot;Organising Creativity&quot;. It's free if you are passionately interested ..................................................................   Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...]  E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-04-23
US	50950639	R1MSE9C3XDJ1UH	0684807521	571658447	Asia Rising:Why America Will Prosper as Asia's Economies Boom	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Explains Asia's future importance to the world.Indispensible	What threads connect up Asia's Growth, past and future? And how can the rest of the world learn from these great wealth-creating societies? What will be the cost to Western nations whose leaders are too proud to learn from Asia's dynamic economic processes and infrastructures?  These sorts of future history questions have absorbed journalists who have written for The Economist for decades. Certainly since my father, Norman Macrae, surveyed Japan's extraordinary growth prosepects in the 1960s and probably earlier.   Whilst my Dad earned some praise, including Japan's Order of the Rising Sun, for his constantly bullish explanations of Asia's future rights to lead the Triad of contintents which shape world class business, education and the human lot, we'd gladly rate Jim Rohwer's Asia Rising as the modern single-source introduction to why Asia in general and China in particular are set fair to be the world's 21st century centre of economic gravity. Whether you agree or disagree; whether you foresee opportunities or risks which could make or break Asia's course; we invite all who have passionate or expert opinions about Asia to join our free e-mail summit on Asia Growing. This global discussion is designed so that busy people can browse and input as time permits and topic relevance matters. So do please e-mail me if you would like to join our bullish discussion on Asia's Growing future.   Chris Macrae, e-mail  wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-04-02
US	50950639	RGI6E6Q1PKK11	0201570513	28365333	Organizing Genius: The Secrets Of Creative Collaboration	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Are modern companies fit places for organising genius?	The book's practical conclusions are compelling, and leave you wondering whether most companies even score 1 out of 10 in organising teams on innovative projects.  For example, every consultant in business process reengineering should have to copy these lines of Steve Jobs every bed time: &quot;Creativity is just connecting things. When you ask creative people how they did something, they feel a little guitly because they didn't really do it, they just saw something. It seemed obvious to them after a while. That's because they were able to connect experiences they've had and synthesise new things. And the reason why they were able to do that was that they've had more experiences or they have thought more about their experiences than other people&quot;.    If you'd like to join a worldwide e-mail discussion group on practical takeouts for creative leadership , please contact me.................................................................................................................... Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...]  E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-03-04
US	50950639	R1SSDBDGX2GHMA	0875845770	124136454	Meeting of the Minds: Creating the Market-Based Enterprise	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Best book on marketing as organisation-wide learning	From Chris Macrae wcbn007@easynet.co.uk  Join 100 marketing opinion leaders from 15 countries currently discussing this book's vital lessons for organisations with a marketing future. This is where we have got to as of March97...    Which are your favourite books or other texts which mesh marketing and learning organisation principles together in such a way that a marketing practitioner will add &quot;learning organisation&quot; constructs to his/her tool kit without worrying whether other people would classify them as marketing work?    Two votes for Vince Barabba's book &quot;Meeting of the Minds&quot; come from Tim Ambler (&quot;excellent book and his approach has inspired some quite sophisticated market research in GM&quot;) and myself.    Below,  an abstracted historical summary of how and why marketing stopped working in many Western companies of the 70s/80s. Finally, my concluding questions are tabled......Words are directly abstracted from Barabba except some linking paragraphs of mine in parentheses:    Page 43  THE RISE AND FALL OF THE MARKETING CONCEPT    The late 50s and the 1960s, a period of economic expansion, were the golden age of marketing. It was a period in which (US) companies like General Electric, Pilsbury, and Procter &amp; Gamble were guided by executives who actively integrated marketing into every phase of the business.    Peter Drucker writing at about the same time, likewise identified the central role of marketing and innovation. To him, marketing encompassed the whole business and meant more than selling products and services or creating a marketing department. &quot;Marketing&quot; he wrote &quot;is so basic that ...it is not a specialised activity at all. It is the whole business seen from the point of view of its final result, that is from the customer's point of view.&quot;     The marketing concept held the highground in management thinking for almost two decades, and these were great years for American business. Personal incomesand markets expanded dramatically between the 1950s and 1970.&quot;    (Then marketing as organisation-wide learning and customer-oriented innovation process stopped in thw West... until the Japanese woke all would-be world class businesses up. The Japanese lapped up marketing as an inter-disciplinary concept with tools as TQM, Quality Function Deployment, Hoshin Planning, as recent revelations of knowledge-creation being an essentially Japanese corporate advantage (Nonaka et al, The Knowledge Creating Company), and target market costing as an organisation-wide process which the Japanese use (instead of accountants' measures) so that an informing consensus integrates all decisions for new product business development (Robin Cooper, When Lean Enterprises Collide))    (page 47)    One example of a Japanese management technique now widely adopted in North America is Total Quality Management (TQM), a customer-focused philosophy and strategy that seeks continuous improvement in business processes through the application of analytical tools and teamwork. Quality is considered from the customer's viewpoint , and quality demands constant sensitivity to customer demands and perceptions to market information. According to one author's description of TQM , &quot;The voice of the customer is integrated into each process and system in the organisation...(and) meeting and exceeding customer demands is the ultimate objective&quot;.    Essentially, the many Japanese management techniques that found their way to North America and Europe in the 1980s shared two common understandings: first, that all business activities represent processes, and second, that these processes have only one purpose, to satisfy customers. The methodologies that underlie Japanese management techniques are at their core ways of fine-tuning and continually improving those processes to the point that they contain nothing that does not create value and satistaction for the customer.      (BUT if you have for ageneration of management lost the marketing concept, your organisation may need to unlearn and then do a lot of new learning just to get back to scratch. As Chris Argyris  has explained - in Organisational Learning 2 -  enormous commitment is needed to reverse short-term culture and short-termist measurements and the political structure these condition -all this at a time when companies really do need to reflect on today's extraordinary strategy change drivers. Is this too much hard work for many old board directors to (have the will to) get down too?...)      page 37:   &quot;In its traditional form, the functionally organised enterprise, in which command and control emanates from the top, is ill suited to the demands of the modern marketing place. It separates decision making (at the top) from doing (within the functions). It links decision-makers and customers by means of a single, narrow, and inadequate channel - the marketing function. Worse still, it provides few opportunities to move knowledge and knowhow between the functions. allowing what we call organisational knowledge.    We may find the best of both worlds if we redesign the decision-making process from the command-and-control tradition of the past so that it draws from and links the functional silos in which information and knowledge ultimately reside. This process will require trust between functions, the sharing of information and knowledge, and enterprise-wide knowledge creation.      CONCLUDING QUESTIONS    Three sets of questions and one speculation to conclude are:    Q1) Apart from Japan, are all countries-headquartered companies starting from an equal handicap in this race to learn marketing organisation-wide? I don't think so. In the US quality prizes like Baldrige woke companies up to process methods and information exchanges, books like Barabba's get written, and &quot;learning organisation&quot; is increasingly a serious topic on many CEO's minds. I don't think it is yet in eg the UK, a country where our lack of appreciation of the intangi  But maybe you'd like to vote on countries you know best?    Q2) More importantly, if an organisation has built up two decades of inertias as marketing dumb and over-deparmentalised, what approaches do people suggest to help a company iteratively and urgently experiment with becoming a new marketing learning organisation?    Q3) Would you agree that the great irony is that - with the new information era - we are entering the fastest wealth producing era mankind has known? But one in which countries, regions and companies will not all gain? The lion's share will go to those who direct value added learning with Unique Organisation Purpose aligned by the quality/trust of marketing relationships (whose feed-forward measurement is far removed from past performance transactions that accountants and old economists count on)?     I would speculate that for many big Western organisations, the only chance of catching up with world class value adding networks will be to establish a virtual university of interdisciplinary management practices with a marketing soul.    We know that the Japanese have some leading tools/approaches for this sort of curriculum, and to work any of them properly practitioners need to exchange experiences.    Brand Chartering is an action learning approach they might also try out; there must be many other experimental approaches worth trying too.    But perhaps most importantly, shouldn't we be constructing websites as experience-hubs in marketing learning organisation where practioners can :  -download training modules from the internet on to company intranets?  -exchange in e-mail groups with other practioners creative ideas on how to plant these interdisciplinary tools in their companies so that organisation-wide learning takes off?    Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...]  E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-03-03
US	50950639	R1UA9R8JTV6BL8	0273627295	635356138	Mastering Management	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The bible for executives who want to dialogue with others	To claim that this book makes a launchpad for any MBA - as does the cover's blurb - is to undersell the unique value of this book which culls the best executive teachings from London Business School, Wharton and IMD. Senior managers who keep this book as closely on-hand as their favourite dictionary will find that it provides an excellent conversation opener with almost every expert function/department they encounter organisation-wide and beyond that with networks of partners in their industry's globalising relationships. Trust and loyalty leadership need to be earned and communicated, both  globally and locally, and all across the stakeholder spectrum from fussy end-consumers to purposeful organisational investors. The book starts with a rousing call - by Ross Webber -  to learn to be personally capable of interacting in interdisciplinary processes if you want to have a leadership future in the post-industrial knowledge-creation revolution which is also tomorrow's gateway to doing business.  When you try out - or review - this book you can derive profitable fun in two ways : 1) cheering some of the brilliant summary contributions (usually a maximum of 5 pages) in areas you have expert knowhow in; 2) observing some of the most personally valuable door-openers to learning organisation  which you may not have previously known you needed. You could then swap your need-to-know priorities with others you dialogue with either physically in the next office or virtually around the world via Internet or intranet ..............................................................................................................................................     Five articles I loudly cheer coming from my own knowledge base are:    1) Tim Ambler's relationship of paradigm of branding offers a vital counterforce to marketing misunderstandings that short-term leaders make. In  pursuit of growing the world's most valuable property rights, the marketer needs to measure progress by measuring the (loyalty) state of relationships between the brand and its customers and significant \\"influence agents\\". A company cannot competently learn to organise this integrated marketing purpose unless its leaders recognise why financial valuation of brands is invalid.      2) George Day clarifies how effective learning processes in market-driven firms depend on : open-minded inquiry; widespread information distribution; mutually informed mental models; accessible organisational memory. His Wharton colleague Jerry Wind provides a 12-question checklist for working out how successful 21st century marketing will be practised organisation-wide.    3)Rob Goffee details cultural requirements for internal marketing teamwork in glocally sensitive companies.  For example, my experience echos these critical success enablers  for high performance international teamwork : start slowly, end faster; use help to facilitate group skills; constantly encourage total participation; surface and address differences; build in time to discuss and review team processes.     4) Donald Marchand explains why marketing companies' attempts to leverage change in our coming informational era will be still born unless architects of a company's learning capabilities evolve a suitable mix of four common information cultures in companies today : functional, sharing, inquiry and discovery.    5) Howard Perlmutter confirms that the new corporate ideal of global civilisation is not an option, but the responsibility falls on today's generation of business people to shape it. His research dramatises cross-cultural and networking incompetences such as : unwillingness to update, vacillating commitment, sending the wrong people, picking the wrong partners, and failure to manage conflicting expectations of stakeholders.............................    Five articles I cheer next in growing the interpersonal skills/language I need to be more fluent in as a coach/charterer of marketing learning organisation:1) Chris Higson questions standard accounting measurements of performance (eg ROCE), and shows where they fail to serve directors responsible for investing in a company's future     2) Jack Wood discusses why we - who wish to be better managers or wiser individuals - need to understand organisational behaviour at an interdisciplinary level.  The alternative is to keep on making decisions which ignore the deeper social and psychological patterns within human behaviour, and whose final result is the opposite of what we intend.    3) With Thomas Colosi, Jack Wood charter why negotiation should be regarded as a subtle art, or process with many iterations. The rules in any negotiation must themselves be negotiated from the outset. As a process, negotiation is an exchange of promises and commitments. This is framed by the degree of trust between the parties; building that trust  (especially in non-Western cultures) lessens the inherent risk in human relationships. The negotiator's job is to create doubts in the minds of others as to the viability of their positions. Managing expectation is also critical to this art.    4) Stephane Garelli explains how countries increasingly have two kinds of economy : `proximity' (being close to the end-user) and `globality' (exploiting different comparative advantages of nations) . Bringing them into balance is the secret to a truly competitive society. Nine other rules support this including: developing aggressiveness on international markets (exports etc) as well as attractiveness to foreign value-added industries; focusing on quality and speed in the conduct of administration and reforms; maintaining a relationship between wage levels, productivity and taxation; investing in education.    5) Johan Roos and George von Krogh introduce key tenets of  epistemology, the field of science that deals with the creation of knowledge. Three powerful concepts in the domain of corporate epistemology are:  a) self-reference - each of us carries our own unique frame of references which is the source of both group creativity and group confusion ; b) languaging - the process through which we both create new meaning and share meaning and frames of reference in language; c) when the same basic patterns of interaction re-occur at different scales within the company - individual, group, strategic business unit and so on. This is one of the key features of the most powerful knowledge-development processes and management systems ......    If you'd like to discuss particular articles in this book - either the ones you cheer as an expert or those you'd like to prioritise next for your own accelerated learning - contact me. I will aim to match you with others who have expressed a similar interest.......................................  ................  Chris Macrae, editor Brand Chartering Handbook and MELNET [...]  E-mail me at : wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-02-10
US	50950639	REDLRVQM455PD	0812928334	968623548	The Witch Doctors	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Do management consultants really grow companies?	The authors will never be popular with the subjects of the question. But it is more than valid to ask it. As management consultancy fad after fad, from downsizing to BPR prove costly in monetary and human terms, and in the majority of cases reveal no medium term improvement in company performance, it is time that every new management tool was much more critically examined before CEOs adopt it. If you wish to participate in an e-mail debate on the pros and cons of these or the next management consultancy fad, do contact me and we'll see if we can raise some expert questions and answers on who's witch and who's doctor ............................................................. Chris Macrae, editor Brand Chartering Handbook and MELNET [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-02-08
US	50950639	R1YHO7I1EVU8YK	0875844162	571072005	Competing for the Future	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Burn all previous books on strategy?	Read Hamel and Prahalad's act of faith that companies with a future will grow with strategic architecture revolving round: core competences; banner brand reputations that all stakeholders can relate to and trust; core products as pathways to innovation and new markets; business units which see themselves as networking centres of excellence. And most old strategic tomes may seem to be fiction, of a turgid kind to boot. For example, how many old strategists add cost (instead of value) by obsessively spending their organisation's time and money on raising entry barriers? Does this make sense in a post-industrial information era where no single organisation can serve customers globally and locally, and where networks of partners will accelerate each other's unique learning capabilities? Not that Gary Hamel feels that he has finished with Chartering the strategic revolution that is needed if the value-adding passions for strategic change and creation are to be constantly lived and learnt organisation-wide. (Revolutionary future updates should be sought direct from Gary Hamel's web [...] ) Competing for the Future is a book which should make newly curious students of all who read it. If you'd like to exchange new lessons which matter most to you with other readers, why not join an interactive book club by contacting me now? ..... Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...] E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.u	1997-02-08
US	50950639	R2VLSGSXSXT8A5	0887306713	441586413	Built to Last	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Defining text on which companies/nations will create wealth	Before being promoted to direct any influential company, people should be required to answer a mastermind quiz on the learning organisation realities discovered in this book. The authors have combed through decades of corporate information to reveal that internal marketing culture and  aligned vision are the fundamental drivers of sustainable corporate growth. If you can convince  directors to take at least a three year perspective - instead of accounting's quarterly ones - in  everything they measure and opinion lead, then their companies are candidates for real wealth  creation. This book's living testimony to the true spirit of marketing leadership is that &quot;visionary&quot;  companies grow eight times more wealth in a generation than average companies. Think of the  difference in future prospects of a nation (Japan?) which invests mainly in visionary  (knowledge-creating) companies and one (UK?) which invests mainly in average (short-termist or  poor learning) companies. And you start to see why every leader - from CEO to national politician  - should be screened for marketing and cultural competence. If you would like to join an interactive  book club for readers to discuss these or other thought-provoking issues, please contact me...  Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook &amp; MELNET [...]  E-mail me at wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-02-08
US	50950639	R1W47X3J2IGO2K	0201629836	720153453	Organizational Learning II: Theory, Method, and Practice	Books	5	37	43	N	N	Definitive: how people politics stop organisational learning	This is the definitive book on how people politics preventorganisational learning, especially when a company needs a doubleturnround. That is a change of culture as well as strategy. Some of the early chapters are a bit heavily academic, but the pursuit is worthwhile if you want to understand how many big old western organisations stop working - instead of reinventing themselves - whenever a competitor dramatically changes the rules of the marketplace. The authors seem to imply that what they call double loop learning across every department of an organisation is both so laborious as a change process and requires such extraordinary levels of mutual trust that it might be better to raise an old organisation to the ground, and start from scratch. Their research is full of evidence why the last two decades have seen so much downsized leadership. One question that occurs to me is will their pessimistic conclusions hold true now that companies can use internal media like intranets to turn all employees' thinking around at the same time? If you would like to discuss this or other provocations relating to this work, I would be delighted to help form an interactive book discussion club.  <br />  Chris Macrae, editor of Brand Chartering Handbook and MELNET [...]  E-mail me at  wcbn007@easynet.co.uk	1997-02-07
US	50950639	R2MLEMT9UZMZRZ	0201877430	96398454	The Brand Chartering Handbook: How Brand Organizations Learn 'Living Scripts' (Eiu Series)	Books	4	3	11	N	N	World #1 interactive book on marketing learning organisation	Hi. I am the book's editor Chris Macrae. My e-mail: wcbn007@easynet.co.uk.  I will leave reviews of Brand Chartering Handbook to others including:    -- Andrew Seth (ex Chairman of Lever Brothers) in the Financial Times (14 June 1996)    -- Jean-Noel Kapferer (my favourite guru on branding) in the next issue of the Journal of Brand Management    -- readers like you.     I rated this book at 8 because it's intentionally only part of the story of the future of brand marketing and learning organisation. Readers are invited to improve our hunt for a  mastermind team-building quiz on a company brand's unique organising purpose. Join us at the website MELNET [...]    We also invite readers to a worldwide summit, currently involving over 100 experts or passionate amateurs from over 15 countries. E-mail me to take part.    Two other bookmarks give browsers a quick introduction:     --&gt; Go to the MIT web to see why Charterers support a revolution in brand management:  [...]    --&gt; Go to the Management Centre Europe web to feel how e-mail summits stimulate glocally valuable/new learning:  www  .mce.be/cgi-bin/forum?action=showarticles&amp;forum=expertideas     --&gt;--&gt;We intend that Brand Chartering Handbook should live up to the claim of being the first interactive book for people who believe in marketing, learning organisation, and growing companies.    Au revoir, Chris	1997-02-06
