US	50952944	R11X2E9S9ZAOKY	0801485606	901324919	From Reliable Sources: An Introduction to Historical Methods	Books	5	31	35	N	N	A book every graduate student and historian should have.	Finding the right sources for a book, article, paper, or project is much more difficult than it seems.  Every subject generally has a large list of material available for use.  But in order to generate a significant contribution to this field, historians need to sort out the reliable sources that fit their topic.  From Reliable Sources helps this process by producing a \\"guideline\\" to finding the best material and how it can be put to use.  This book is a useful guide to the various techniques professional historians have devised for analyzing sources.  It gets across the point of finding the best sources in order to produce quality historical scholarship.<br /><br /> The critical analysis of a source is the first step to this process.  What follows is whether or not the historian believes that the source is reliable.  An important message conveyed by the authors is that no source is perfectly reliable.  This leads to the limitations faced by historians today, such as change and causality, and how they deal with them.  Its significance to historical writing is vital because historians today use different methodologies than their predecessors.  Historiography is a daily changing profession where scholars and historians continually struggle with finding the right sources.	2005-09-14
US	50952944	R3J2R4F8X4MO9G	0700613285	493126162	After the Glory: The Struggles of Black Civil War Veterans	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fine addition to the study of the Civil War	Though the recent attention of the 54th Massachusetts Colored Infantry- largely due to the success of the movie \\"Glory\\"- has garnered some awareness of blacks in the American Civil War, little is still known about these magnificent men who donned the blue uniforms.  Blacks played an integral role in the preservation of the Union and deserve the same attention in regards to the respect shown to Civil War veterans.<br /><br />Information on Civil War veterans remains rather sketchy in places with one of those pertaining to African American veterans.  Until Donald Shaffer's study, very little was known on the pension availability to black soldiers.  Although not surprising, Shaffer's accounts of racism and prejudice further emphasize the general reaction to African Americans.  Thousands of blacks died in the war, but they still were not given the full support of white veteran groups or even the general public.  After assisting the unification of this country, blacks continued to climb uphill in regards to social rights.<br /><br />Lastly, it was eye-opening to see how difficult our government made it for black veterans to get a pension.  The pension process was long, tiresome, and difficult for white Union veterans, nevertheless blacks had it worse.  Shaffer's book will be a key addition to any Civil War library and may be a standard for a portrait on black veterans in the postwar period.	2005-09-02
US	50952944	R3TR7HGIRU9YYE	0842028765	195534224	A Single Grand Victory: The First Campaign and Battle of Manassas (The American Crisis Series, Book 7)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A great book	First Manassas or First Bull Run was the first major land battle of the Civil War and therefore gave America its glimpse into what would come.  Union commander Irvin McDowell, a soldier who was thrust into command without adequate preparation or planning, assembled an army that he knew was not ready.  His overall handling of the northern troops at Bull Run can be considered as reasonable given the circumstances and the situation.  Criticism of McDowell at Manassas should be taken for what its worth.  McDowell did the best he could with what he had to work with.<br /><br />A Single Grand Victory shows Abraham Lincoln's diligence to move against Manassas Junction while dealing with criticism from his military advisors.  It also touches on the cultural context of the men who fought on these Virginia fields.  Why men chose to fight and why they believed this battle would decide the fate of the war are answered by Rafuse.<br /><br />Though books on First Manassas by John Hennessey and William C. Davis may be considered the standard for the campaign, Ethan Rafuse has added this compelling narrative with an incorporation of new military history to Civil War scholarship.  Well written and researched, this short account of the struggle near Manassas Junction comes across as a fine read and shall put the battle not only in its historical perspective but also its political context.  Rafuse certainly could be considered as one of the up and coming Civil War military historians of our time.	2005-07-27
US	50952944	RHXYKPCHG6CXM	081392104X	497463097	Apostles of Disunion: Southern Secession Commissioners and the Causes of the Civil War (A Nation Divided: Studies in the Civil War Era)	Books	5	10	17	N	N	A fine piece of Civil War scholarship	Slavery is not THE cause of the Civil War if you ask the average Southern citizen.  Rather a combination of states rights and a commitment to defeat Lincoln's Republicans was the common reason why the South seceded from the Union.  But what many Southern sympathizers now and then have either forgotten or chose not to embrace are that slavery was at the core of secession.<br /><br />Students today are taught in class that the final blow to the Confederacy and perhaps the number one cause of the Civil War was Abraham Lincoln's 1860 election to the presidency.  Slavery is shown as a side effect or perhaps an overblown or overemphasized cause for Southern independence.  What Civil War scholarship is finding out, and much of this has to do with Dew's book, is that slavery was the roots of the Civil War.  Take out slavery and this country does not split into two.<br /><br />Dew's book opens the reader's eyes to the roots of this nation's greatest war.  Citing examples from the Southern secession commissioners, who pounded race and slavery in their letters to the various states, Dew shows remarkable evidence that the issue of \\"states rights\\" can be defined as the right to own slaves.<br /><br />In this time period a majority of northern and southern whites saw blacks as inferior to their race.  Yes northern whites mostly did not agree with slavery but it was never in question which race was superior.  To southerners it was a test of manhood to be the dominant \\"species\\" in this country.<br /><br />Dew's book is indeed a fine addition to any library.	2005-07-27
US	50952944	R3ALPNR06SNSSG	0252009185	989313246	How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A standard for Civil War history	How the North Won is perhaps one of the most polished, informative books on the American Civil War.  Considered a standard on Civil War military history, it has been embraced by readers, historians, and scholars across the country.  Hattaway and Jones have produced possibly the leading work on Civil War logistics, planning, and administration.<br /><br />This book examines the basic concepts of the war with its conduct, management, and support as its central themes.  Both authors have decided to focus more on logistics and strategy over tactics.  For those Civil War readers who believe that the Union won because of its superior numbers and resources will instead find out that the outcome of the war had little to do with size and strength; it was better management and strategy from the Union high commanders that beat the Confederacy.<br /><br />Perhaps the best achievement of this book is its assurance that those armies who fought on the defensive side generally won.  The analyses of World War I and other previous wars strengthen their argument.  This is a definite addition to any military or Civil War library.	2005-07-27
US	50952944	RZYF4D7GVW24Y	0691057338	435913715	Baseball in Blue and Gray: The National Pastime during the Civil War	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Baseball and ... the Civil War?	America's favorite pastime existed in the Civil War? As a Civil War historian it never crossed my mind that baseball existed in the mid nineteenth century.  But it did and it was popular!  This book not only relates baseball to the Civil War but also presents the roots of America's favorite pastime.  While many baseball and sports historians claim that Abner Doubleday, a Union general in the Civil War, was instrumental in creating the baseball we know today, Kirsch shows evidence that the game was actually developed in the 1840's and 1850's.<br /><br />The Civil War hurt baseball for obvious reasons- the first being that several of its key players choose to drop their bats and pick up the rifle.  The second explanation for baseball's decline during the early stages of war was the shift of focus from baseball to the war front.  American nationalism was high and baseball took a back seat to the war effort, at least for the first couple of years.  Baseball fans became more interested in how there country was doing rather than who won the local ball game.  But as Kirsch explains, the game did not die with the Civil War, but rather came stronger as it progressed.  Games in 1864 and 1865 were popular, especially in the bigger cities such as Philadelphia and New York City.  Soldiers in the camps and prisons used baseball as a form of entertainment.  The game was beginning to show its true popularity.<br /><br />As Kirsch says, his book shows that American nationalism and baseball really came of age at the end of the Civil War.  As the death toll for both armies began to mount, the people looked for ways to entertain themselves and perhaps escape the realities of being at war.  Going to theaters, band concerts, and other forms of entertainment were essential to ease the pain.  Baseball was easing the tensions of a dividing nation while slowly improving the racial relations of blacks and whites.  Baseball was not considered America's favorite pastime in 1850 or 1865 but it was growing in popularity.  Games became meaningful and the attendance began to rise.  Local clubs became national teams and soon people in Chicago were interested in how a New York team was doing.  Baseball was soon to be our nation's pastime.it was growing in popularity.  Games became meaningful and the attendance began to rise.  Local clubs became national teams and soon people in Chicago were interested in how a New York team was doing.  Baseball was soon to be our nation's pastime. <br />	2005-07-24
US	50952944	R3GVGNHNLGJTWX	080782450X	968516271	General George E. Pickett in Life and Legend	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The true image of Pickett is finally revealed.	Until this book hit the shelves, the image of Confederate General George Pickett was one of heroism.  Known mostly for his failed assault at Gettysburg, the flamboyant and curly haired Virginian was a symbol for the South's \\"Lost Cause\\" myth.  Attributing to his heroic portrayal was the Turner picture, \\"Gettysburg\\" and the Michael Shaara book, \\"The Killer Angels.\\"<br /><br />The reputation of LaSalle Corbell Pickett before Gordon's book was one of fondness for a wife of a famous general.  The public generally believed her when she described her soldier as a champion of the South.  Now, we can ascertain that LaSalle carefully and deliberately created a positive image of her husband in order to leave a lasting impression.  Because of this, the story of George Pickett can be described as one of myth and confusion.<br /><br />The true story of this man is revealed here.  Though Pickett was mostly a good soldier who did his job, his depiction cannot be similar to the previous impression painted by LaSalle and past historians.  It was interesting to see how Gordon pointed out that LaSalle left out stories and facts that did not favor her husband.  By doing this, LaSalle loses all credibility and any references to her work must be looked at carefully.<br /><br />Finally, Civil War scholarship is pushing towards the phrase \\"going against the grain,\\" as it pertains to producing Civil War material.  Rather than continue to generate work after work that does little to advance this field, scholars such as Gordon are a bright addition that will continually keep fresh perspectives on this time period.  On a personal level, I very much look forward to studying under her as I begin my doctorate at the University of Akron in the fall of 2005.	2005-05-04
US	50952944	RAQ1LCTC73S3T	0807121363	773031948	The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern, May 7--12, 1864	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good read but Rhea is too critical	Any civil war buff or historian will agree that the Battle for Spotsylvania Court House was some of the bloodiest fighting in the Civil War.  The utter disregard for human life was shown here on these Virginian fields.  It's mind boggling how commanders could waste people's lives in the face of such destruction.<br /><br />As Rhea reiterates, after the Battle of the Wilderness Confederate general Robert E. Lee had no choice but to move his troops into a defensive position near the Spotsylvania Court House.  Knowing that Union commander Ulysses Simpson Grant would pursue his southerners, Lee constructed defensive earthworks that were nearly perfect.  Unlike his predecessors, Grant vowed to strike at Lee whenever he possibly could, even if a significant loss of men was apparent.  The number of attacks at the Bloody Angle by the Union commander illustrates his testimony to destroying Lee's army.  Where Gordon Rhea is perhaps unfair is his continuous criticism of Grant's subordinate officers.<br /><br />Up to 1864 the Army of the Potomac had a variety of commanding officers ranging from George McClellan to George Meade.  All were West Point graduates and all had experience in the field before the Civil War.  Therefore all were professional soldiers.  What recent scholarship is saying is that the continuous influence of President Lincoln and his War Department on the generals can be construed as overbearing and perhaps detrimental to their performance on the field.  Lincoln's goal was to capture Richmond as long as Washington D.C. was protected.  By not allowing his army to move freely down the peninsula and attacking Richmond by way of Petersburg, Lincoln must be blamed mostly for the northern lack of success from 1861 to 1864.  Now, McClellan, Joseph Hooker, Ambrose Burnside, and Meade all knew how to capture Richmond.  They just weren't given full control to carry out their plans.  So, the problem with Rhea's critique of the Union officers is that it may seem fair to the average reader, but in reality it is downright unmerited.<br /><br />With that being said it must be pointed out that Rhea is a good researcher.  His manuscript collection, especially the numerous diaries and letters, is quite impressive.  But one can point out that Rhea only used sources to back up his own claims, a trait that is common with attorneys.  This may be the definitive study of the Spotsylvania campaign from a tactical sense but it fails to understand the larger picture.to the average reader, but in reality it is downright unmerited.   <br /> <br />With that being said it must be pointed out that Rhea is a good researcher.  His manuscript collection, especially the numerous diaries and letters, is quite impressive.  But one can point out that Rhea only used sources to back up his own claims, a trait that is common with attorneys.  This may be the definitive study of the Spotsylvania campaign from a tactical sense but it fails to understand the larger picture. <br />	2005-04-13
US	50952944	R3G1DA38UCMAY6	1886228787	582724837	The View from Pluto: Collected Sportswriting About Northeast Ohio	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great sports book for Ohioans	I grew up a Cleveland sports fan in the 80's and 90's and still call that city my second home.  Though us Ohioans have had our fair share of bad memories, we cling to those rare instances of greatnesses.  We cherish the seven years of Indians dominance in baseball even if no World Series was ever obtained.  We've sold out Cleveland Browns stadium year after year even when a .500 team was out of reach.  We remember the glory days at Richfield Coliseum where night after night Mark Price, Brad Daughtery, Hot Rod John Williams, Larry Nance, and Craig Ehlo gave this city something to cheer about.  We hope that the Lebron James's, Kellen Winslow's, and C.C. Sabathia's can lead us back to those fateful years.<br /><br />Pluto's book brought tears to my eyes.  It's amazing how versatile this sportswriter is.  He not only covers the professional teams of Cleveland but also can intricate local stories to his readers.  His stories of the Indians magic summer of 1995 and their disappointing World Series loss in 1997 brought back memories of joy and heartbreak.  His views on the Browns sudden departure to Batlimore were exactly what every other Browns fan was thinking.  You don't take football out of Cleveland.<br /><br />Most importantly his stories reinforced our thinking on why we love our Cleveland teams.  Yes we have won no championships in God knows how many years.  Yes we have been the laughing stock of professional sports for a long time.  But we still love our teams and we will always cherish those special memories.  No one can take that away from us.	2005-04-09
US	50952944	R1BC8GG44OGTHM	0971195021	102425790	Red Clay to Richmond	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Well researched but not well written.	The 35th Georgia is one of many Confederate regiments that had a stellar combat record throughout the Civil War.  Serving in Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, these Georgians spilled blood in Maryland, Pennsylvania, and, of course, Virginia.  They were remarkable soldiers, mostly farmers, who had signed up for what they believed were the right reasons.  Their story was indeed needed to be told.<br /><br /> John Fox was perhaps fortunate that wartime accounts for the 35th, such as diaries, journals, and letters were not hard to find.  Over the course of ten years, Fox accumulated an impressive collection of primary material that allowed the author to present a thorough history of the regiment.  His research acknowledges, along with many other Civil War works, that fighting only took up a small percentage of a soldier's time-revealing that camp life was indeed the true hardship of being a soldier.  Fox also describes a common occurrence among Civil War soldiers in that their belief in religion increased or became more apparent while away from home.  References to God were a way of coping over the long absences from loved ones at home.<br /><br /> Numerous maps and photographs supplement the author's writing giving the reader a much better understanding of the Georgians struggles.  Fox does a commendable job of taking the reader on a step by step journey of each battle the 35th participated in.  It was very clear from the beginning that this book was well researched.<br /><br /> The only problem evident is Fox's apparent lack of scholarly input.  Though the author convened with many Civil War scholars, his own work cannot be considered scholarly.  His writing is, at times, in the passive voice, and therefore can be bland.  Even if this is a well researched account of the 35th Georgia, it was not well written.  Finally, this regimental history would be a welcome addition to any Civil War library if for only its impressive bibliography.	2005-03-01
US	50952944	R1MFAI56PLHVRZ	0743456912	266732750	Ric Flair: To Be the Man (WWE)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A bit of a disappointment	I had very high expectations for this book and I have to say that I was a little letdown.  Ric Flair is without a doubt one of the best performers in the business who has entertained for millions of people for the past thirty years.<br /><br />His story is compelling yet not really entertaining, at least in book form.  I think its ironic that he rips on Foley constantly (more on that later)because Foley may not be able to lace up Flair's boots but his books were a lot better.<br /><br />The story of the \\"Nature Boy\\" shows how if you work hard enough you can accomplish anything.  Flair's achievements inside the ring are remarkable and no doubt portray a fine career.  But outside the ring is a different story.  Hey, I know every person messes up occasionally but I was astonished at how much booze and women Flair consumed for decades.  Im glad he's a better man now and also a great father.<br /><br />Now, back to Foley.  I disagree with Flair that Foley is a \\"glorified stuntman.\\"  Foley should be recognized for his achievements inside the ring.  He may not be a great athlete but he knew how to entertain a crowd.  I can't see how a \\"glorified stuntman\\" can win a WWE championship.  Things like that don't happen in professional wrestling.	2004-10-26
US	50952944	RB77S1K3WR3T7	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	2	14	N	N	A great novel	I am surprised by the poor reviews by the readers.  I thought that this was an amazing book where Clancy took the reader into the eyes of terrorists.  Though still unimaginable that we could be attacked again, Clancy reveals how America is still vulnerable to attacks.  9-11 taught us that we are not invincible but I think Americans still believe that no one can threaten us.  Clancy's novel is not just pointing out our \\"weak\\" border patroling that allows illegal aliens into the country each day, but rather our strong defensive capabilities.  If you kick America in the a** then you better have a plan for dealing with our teeth.	2004-10-22
US	50952944	R152DJUU0STCXD	0823221482	759410686	From First to Last: The Life of William B. Franklin (The North's Civil War)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent biography.	Before I read this book, the name William Buell Franklin meant little.  All I knew was that he was a Union commander at Fredericksburg.  The rest of Franklin's war service was a mystery to me. Thank God I read this book.<br /><br />Franklin's reputation before this book can be compared to other Union generals such as George McClellan.  Unfairly criticized for the Union losses in the eastern theater, McClellan has been the focal blame for the Union's lack of success in the early part of the war.  In comparison, Franklin's inability to break through Jackson's lines at Fredericksburg has scarred his name until recently.  Taking unjustifiable blame for this defeat, the Pennsylvanian never regained full respect for his illustrious war service.<br /><br />What's even more impressive about this book is its commitment to the truth.  Snell's study illustrates Franklin's strengths and failures throughout the war.  Surely, the Maryland Campaign was not Franklin's finest hour as a commander, but Snell refuses to put entire blame on the general for his inability to rescue Harpers Ferry, unlike other historians of the campaign.<br /><br />One can admire the entire life of this Union general.  His service to his home and country has finely been noticed.  Though still seen as the \\"scapegoat\\" of Fredericksburg, Franklin now has a fair biography that will certainly be the best out there for years to come.	2004-09-15
US	50952944	R1MJZYP4JXFCHS	0807129240	675155081	Justice of Shattered Dreams: Samuel Freeman Miller and the Supreme Court during the Civil War Era (Conflicting Worlds: New Dimensions of the American Civil War)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A splendid biography	The appointment of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Freeman Miller by President Lincoln was perhaps his best decision before the Civil War.  Miller's life story is well written by Dr. Ross and perhaps will be the definitive study of the man for generations to come.<br /><br />Ross provides new insights into Supreme Court cases, such as the Slaughter House rulings and other important judicial issues of the Civil War and Reconstruction. But perhaps what is Ross's finest work is his ability to articulate Miller's character.  The author's background on the Justice fully prepared the reader for understanding why Miller voted on a certain issue.  In doing so, the reader can clearly comprehend the various court decisions of that era.<br /><br />Clearly, the judicial system of the Civil War is one of the few areas of that time period with insufficient attention.  Ross's book will hopefully ignite a spark to this unknown subject of American history.	2004-07-20
US	50952944	R3BDTD1DKFGWIX	0807118737	796615899	The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5--6, 1864	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A compelling narrative of the Wilderness Campaign	As a park historian at the Wilderness told me, this book is the definitive study of the battle.  Rhea is a historian who understands, almost perfectly, the military tactics of the campaign.  As the reader follows his narrative, they begin to understand how and why things happened.<br />With that being said, one must recognize Rhea's mistakes.  His harsh criticism of General Meade is perhaps unnecessary and downright unfair.  What Rhea does not comprehend is that Meade's corps commanders at the battle did not match up with Lee's Confederate generals.  Warren and Burnside were unreliable, and Hancock and Sedwick did not perform at their very best.  On the other hand, Lee had such luxuries as Ewell and Hill, to go along with his war horse, General James Longstreet.<br />It is true that Rhea is not a Meade fan, but he must give some credit to the &quot;Snapping Turtle.&quot;  During the battle, no one is the Army of Potomac knew for sure who the commander was.  Grant and Meade may have appeared to act as one but both had their own agendas.  From this, there was confusion from the ranks down on orders and so forth.<br />But, to keep it short, the rest of the book is interesting and very readable.  It is true that the Wilderness Campaign has received little attention over the years.  The importance of the battle was that for the first time, the Union army went forwards rather than backwards after a defeat.  In a way, this battle confirmed Lee's worst nightmare, Grant was here to fight.	2004-07-17
US	50952944	R4BHOSL4E0Z5	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	6	9	N	N	My favorite history book	Historically speaking, Horowitz's accounts of the southern ties to the Confederate States of America is accurate yet astonishing.  Though a Civil War historian, I, similar to most Americans, believed the War of the Rebellion ended in 1865, but apparently it has not.  The examples of Southern patriotism and its commitment to preserving its past is both admirable and scary.<br />Many ask why?  Horowitz does it well revealing the different reasons for Southern remembrance.  The simple fact that most of the War was fought in their backyards can, and does, justify their reasons.<br />What's more sickening, if I may say, is that Horowitz's book only covers a small percentage of the Southern patriotism.  Even today, it is not uncommon to drive through a town in the South without seeing the &quot;Rebel&quot; flag or a Confederate banner.  Southerners do have a hard time forgeting that War.	2004-07-04
US	50952944	R35EMSAHGCB5K6	0935523677	300443845	Sealed with Their Lives: Battle of Crampton's Gap, Burkittsville, MD, Sept. 14, 1862	Books	2	3	17	N	N	A case of localitis	Tim Reese's &quot;Crampton's Gap&quot; is indeed an in depth study of the Maryland Campaign and a useful tool for understanding the importance of Crampton's Gap, but it fails to see the whole picture.<br />The Battle of Crampton's Gap can not be the most important event in the Maryland Campaign and therefore can not be considered the &quot;High Water Mark&quot; for the Confederacy.  To proclaim that the battle was the most important of the Civil War is not only ludicrous but also misleading.  Crampton's Gap may be the most significant of the &quot;Gaps&quot; but clearly it is not the ideal focus of the Civil War.<br />Author Reese suffers from a case of localitis.  Similar to some scholars and historians who are too wrapped up with one particular study, they fail to see the big picture of the War.	2004-07-02
US	50952944	R81X97WSFQCFO	0299115542	968630234	The End of Slavery in Africa	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Do u know when slavery ended in Africa?	First, there is no one set date when slavery ended in Africa.  It varied from country to country.  In some parts, slavery came to an abrupt end causing widespread panic among the people.  But as Miers and Roberts argue, the end of slavery, whether it came to an immediate halt or was gradually abolished \\"always brought the nature of the economic, political, and social structure sharply into focus.\\"(3)<br /> In The End of Slavery in Africa, Miers and Roberts show in the introduction that the transition from slave to free labor was complex.  The notion that once given their \\"freedom\\" slaves had the choice to leave or stay with their masters does not pertain to the entire slave population in Africa.  In African societies, most slaves belonged to a kin group and so their rights were at the judgment of the family.  At the time of emancipation, the slave was usually given the option to run away or in some cases become a member of the family.  Also, desertion rates among African tribes were overwhelming, some estimate that 25 to 40% (roughly 5-6 million people) of slaves deserted from their owners.  The authors conclude that these numbers represent the overall harsh treatment of slaves.<br /> This collection of essays focuses typically on the ending of slavery along the coastal societies where colonial rule was much more common.  In these coastal towns, the right to emancipate the slaves was usually left up to the African society but not without approval from the colonial power which controlled the profitable slave trade.  In general, most of the contributing authors agree that it was the European influence that eliminated slavery in Africa.	2004-04-08
US	50952944	R3S7O21T44QNRE	0684835657	44281687	The SLAVE TRADE: THE STORY OF THE ATLANTIC SLAVE TRADE: 1440 - 1870	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Another book on the Slave Trade	The Slave Trade is a massive work that attempts to explain the Atlantic Slave Trade which dominated the European and American waters for over four centuries.  It covers the beginning when the Portuguese first set foot on Africa in the 1400's to the end of the American Civil War.  The book is split into six different \\"books\\" which range from the herding of slaves into the ships to European and African attempts to abolish this trade.  The author, whether purposely or by mistake, portrays the Slave Trade through the eyes of the slave traders themselves.  The period of great interest for Thomas is the nineteenth century when the slave trade began to disappear.<br />When Great Britain abolished the trade in the early 1800's, it began, with the help of West African naval patrols, to suppress the trade still prosperous in Brazil and Cuba. Thomas shows how ineffectual these efforts were for so many years.  He is one of the first to correct U.S. historians who assume the slave trade ended during that time.  Many North American ships were still involved during that &quot;illegal era,&quot; mostly coming from ports in New York, Baltimore, and especially other ports in New England.<br />Of course, with any 900 page description it is difficult to keep the reader interested simply because there is so much information out there.  Thomas admits that writing on the slave trade produces \\"no new cultivation,\\" yet he feels it is necessary so that it can perhaps \\"offer something for almost everyone.\\"(11)  Although filled with errors, it can be an excellent read for those interested in the Atlantic Slave Trade.	2004-03-02
US	50952944	R1A9K6I2IHYKIZ	0299073300	627128377	Slavery in Africa: Historical and Anthropological Perspectives	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A source for information	This collection of essays is split into eight different parts ranging from the different uses of slaves to the historical dynamics of slave systems.  A common occurrence in all the essays, and this can be contributed to the editors themselves is the comparison between different African societies that enables the reader to make broad generalizations about African slavery itself.  One such generalization is that the majority of the slaves captured came from wars or raids that occurred between two civilizations.<br /> The first part of the book deals with how African slavery is different than \\"Western\\" slavery.  Westerners have this image of a slave who is unhappy and seeking freedom but Miers and Kopytoff are quick to point out that in most African societies it was common to find a \\"slave\\" working alongside his \\"master\\" and earning the same living.  The second part discusses the slave as an institutionalized outsider in the Margi society of Nigeria.  The third part reveals the different uses of slaves in the Sena, Igbo, Aboh, and Damagaram societies.  The fourth part describes the slave structure in descent groups that occurred in the Sherebo, Imbangala, and Kongo civilizations.  The next part reveals the historical dynamics of slave systems, particularly involving those of servitude.  The Kerebe of Tanzania and the Wolof and Sereer of Senegambia all had different types of servitude.  Part six deals with the ecology of servility while the last part interprets social psychology in a servile system.  The seventh section discusses slavery and emancipation under colonial rule in the Mende society.<br /> Overall, the reader can be awestruck by the amount of information that can be obtained from this book.  Learning about the diverse societies that spread all over Africa, one can take the assumption that African slavery is indeed different from society to society.  Finally, a clear analysis from this book is that Western slavery is nowhere near as complex as African slavery.	2004-02-24
US	50952944	R17T139PH8260F	052157403X	466810401	Ideas of Slavery from Aristotle to Augustine (The W. B. Stanford Memorial Lectures)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Very well done	This book is a revised and extended version of the W.B. Stamford Lectures given by Dr. Peter Garnsey at Trinity College Dublin in 1995.  The author examines ancient Greece and Rome and categorizes his \\"ideas\\" of slavery into two large divisions: Attitudes to slavery, and Theories of slavery.  The first part, dealing with \\"attitudes\\" to slavery, range from critique to justification of the subject.  The second part examines the \\"theories\\" of Aristotle, the Stoics, Theologians Philo and Paul, Church Fathers Ambrose and Augustine, and others.  The author draws his conclusion from these philosophers' own writings and therefore is commended on his excellent research.<br /> The author finds that there was no major movement for abolition in these societies, unlike antebellum America, but one should not conclude that slavery was accepted all together.  The problem with this analysis is that a majority of the Roman and Greek societies do not excuse or condemn the subjection of other human beings.  In reality, any abolition to slavery was kept private or generally ignored.<br /> Slavery is not an idea but rather a judgment that we are human beings and slaves are not.  One can see that our own century has witnessed the terrible consequences of dehumanizing other human beings.  An opportunity to compare ancient slavery to modern slavery is completely ignored by the author and for good reason, simply because it would have required an entire different section.  In conclusion, the \\"why\\" is left for us to contemplate, yet one of Garnsey's achievements is that the thought behind or concerning this matter is so clearly revealed in this book.	2004-02-09
US	50952944	R3LDR14NAMFODS	0195659066	671116348	Gender, Slavery and Law in Colonial India	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Answers the questions on Indian slavery	To say slavery was an economic tool and that slaves worked to produce profits for their landowners is misleading in the author's mind.  Slavery, Chatterjee argues, must be understood as a domestic institution.  Further domestic slavery and the slaves who were part of it must be seen as having multiple connections to indigenous caste and community groupings.  Slaves were not exclusively members of the lowest society of the Indian caste system, and the concept of \\"slavery\\" should not be limited to those belonging to such groups.<br /> The book's main chapters focus on the explication of domestic slavery within the Murshidabad court and on that court's relations with the East India Company and colonial officials. After an initial historiographical discussion of slavery, Chatterjee moves on in her second chapter to a description of the slave system that operated within the Murshidabad court and the relationship of that system to ties of kinship and nonkinship. Her third chapter describes the efforts of East India Company and colonial officials to manipulate and reinterpret indigenous slave institutions in ways thought appropriate to British (and sometimes Islamic) laws regarding marriage and kinship. Chapter four studies the economic relationships and exchanges within the Nizamat, the role played by slaves in this process, and the interventions of company and colonial officials in these exchanges. Chapter five examines laws relating to slavery in this period, both company and Islamic, and the various legal contortions through which colonial officials managed their coexistence with a slavery that was said not to exist.<br />In the conclusion, Chatterjee places her subject in its modern context. We must understand personal law in modern India as the product of colonial intervention and construction. We must reconstruct the history of domestic slavery in India out of the nineteenth-century genealogical, kinship, and legal subterfuges that sought to obscure and occlude it from India's historical past. Finally, we must include the \\"sexual reproduction\\" of domestic slavery within our understanding of productive labor systems in India. Only when we have done all this \\"can the legacy of administrative complicity and family collusion in the persistence of a traffic in women and children in modern India be fully understood\\" (p. 239).rom India's historical past. Finally, we must include the \\"sexual reproduction\\" of domestic slavery within our understanding of productive labor systems in India. Only when we have done all this \\"can the legacy of administrative complicity and family collusion in the persistence of a traffic in women and children in modern India be fully understood\\" (p. 239).	2004-02-09
US	50952944	R2H8GDOGMK7QWX	0887381286	679224218	Slaves and Slavery in Ancient Rome	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A surprise to the reader	To begin, this is not a \\"book\\" on slaves and slavery in Ancient Rome but rather a compilation of sources regarding that matter.  This appears to be a textbook or a teaching aid of some sort for those \\"students\\" interested in Roman slave revolts.  In the beginning, the author examines two Sicilian Slave Revolts: one from 136-132 B.C., and the second one from 104-100 B.C.  Doctor Yavetz also brings up two Roman Wars: the War against Aristonicus, and the War against Spartacus.  His last section deals with the debates and issues on the study of slaves and slavery itself.<br /> The first slave revolt in Sicily was the result of abuse and torture.  Led by two slaves, Antiochus and Achaois, they were able to spread terror into the Sicilian countryside for four years before being put down by the Roman army.  The second revolt also lasted four years but was under completely different circumstances.  The Roman government freed hundreds of Bithynian slaves to help their old friend, King Nicomedes of Bithynia.  After stopping this action because of a slave owner outcry, Sicilian slaves became restless and decided to revolt.  In the end, over 30,000 slaves had to be killed by the Roman army in order to stop the rebellion.  The wars against Aristonicus and Spartacus, both who had recruited a large following of slaves, were successful Roman victories against attempts to gain the crown.<br /> The author's last section on slavery debates and issues focuses on scholarly attempts to undermine the importance of these slave revolts from 140 B.C. to 70 B.C.  The author questions why historians believe these revolts have little significance.  Doctor Yavetz asks the reader to examine if any two of the slave revolts in the Roman Empire were related?  Was there a pattern for slave revolts to follow?  Does the War against Aristonicus and the Sicilian Slave Revolt have anything in common?  Rather than answering his own questions, Dr. Yavetz lets other scholars do the work.  He inserts passages from other texts regarding slave revolts in Rome and so gives their perspective on the outcome.  Overall, this book is merely a stepping-stone to larger works that answer the questions referring to Roman slavery.s from other texts regarding slave revolts in Rome and so gives their perspective on the outcome.  Overall, this book is merely a stepping-stone to larger works that answer the questions referring to Roman slavery.	2004-02-03
US	50952944	R3644G9PHZ7WF6	0306812746	970985083	General John Buford	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not bad from Longacre	I had high expectations for this book and I must admit that I am disappointed.  I agree that this was well researched but I must say that I could not read more than a couple of pages before putting it down and doing something else.  A couple of things Longacre lacks, and possibly this is from a lack of primary source material, is a weak background of the Union General.  We learn little about where he was born, what his young life entailed, and most importantly who his family was.  We also get a mediocre summary of his involvement at Gettysburg, the most important campaign in his military career.  I think Longacre could have went deeper. He should have discussed the first day in more depth, and perhaps compare/contrast Buford's character with the one portrayed in the movie &quot;Gettysburg.&quot;<br />But overall I would recommend this book to anyone simply because it is the only biography out there on Buford.  I think you do get a sense of who the General was and how he commanded and respected his men.  I just wish it was better written.	2004-01-20
US	50952944	R1OSSBDC41VCWR	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The "Bible" of Gettysburg	As a Civil War student, I consider this book to be the best out there on Gettysburg.  Not only is it well written, but more importantly, it is well researched. The only negative feedback I can give is its weak analysis of Culp's Hill on the night of July 2. For Gettysburg enthusiasts this is a good place to start to study the Battle of Gettysburg.	2004-01-20
US	50952944	R3ISNLWOWOAKN1	0306813122	840788227	Joshua Chamberlain: The Soldier and the Man	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Full of interesting material	Being a Civil War fanatic and scholar I had a tremendous interest in Joshua L. Chamberlain, and most of that interest is from the Killer Angels and the movie Gettysburg.  I took this book from the perspective that I knew nothing of Chamberlain.  I found Edward Longacre's biography well written and well researched even if his main source of material was Spears memoirs.  Longacre dispels many myths of Chamberlain and presents facts to show perhaps a different perspective of the man's career.  Sure, Longacre agrees that Chamberlain was a terrific and courageous soldier, arguably one of the best in the union army.  But he also understands that JLC had his flaws and can be criticized for being selfish at times.  I think the average reader plants the image of Chamberlain from &quot;Gettysburg&quot; or Killer Angels in their brain as they read the book, and that is whythe reviews are mostly poor ones.  We must remember that anything Chamberlain wrote after 1865 about the War should be taken for some inaccuracies.  Longacre is right that Chamberlain is a romanticizer and prefers the good story over the correct one.  I assume Longacre made some mistakes and for that I took a star away but I truly enjoyed this book because it didn't portray Chamberlain as a godly hero but rather as an incredible human being.	2004-01-13
US	50952944	RT1EY26YNH7BP	0743456904	9113921	Hollywood Hulk Hogan (World Wrestling Entertainment)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hulkamania is still running wild!  Yeah it really is!	Hulk Hogan is wrestling.  Ask any fan since the 1980's to name the most famous wrestler ever and Hulk Hogan name HAS to be on top of that list.  Hulkamania was not just a thing in the past but it was a movement in and out of the wrestling world.  Growing up, everyone and I do mean everyone loved Hulk Hogan and Hulkamania was something we could get behind.  Without Hulk Hogan the WWE would have never reached the level it has today.<br />With that being said, Hulk Hogan's autobiography is a well written and very informative book for wrestling fans.  The most important apsect about this book is its revelation of how Hulk Hogan lives, eats, and breathes wrestling.  Wrestling is not his job, its his life.  The guy has worked so many years and has taken such a beating, while on top, that you have to admire the man even if you're not a fan.  His stories on Andre the Giant and other wrestling legends are classics.  His views on Vince Mcmahon and the different directions the WWE has taken are priceless.  Sure, we'll never get Hogan's complete story on the wrestling world but I think if you read this book, you will become more knowledeable on wrestling itself.  Hulkamania may not appear on our TV sets ever again but it will never die with this generation.  Hulk Hogan was more than a wrestler, he was a hero to millions of wrestling fans around the world.	2004-01-07
US	50952944	RX89UUWUOWRF0	0807849960	761125926	Gettysburg--Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A splendid historical book	My master's thesis was on George Sears Greene and his defense of Culps Hill, so as one can guess this was a very valuable source for information.<br />Pfanz's book is a continuation of his studies on the various areas of the Gettysburg battlefield.  Culp's Hill and East Cemetery Hill are not considered \\"hotspots\\" of the national park and therefore have not received the same attention as \\"The Angle\\" and Little Round Top.  Pfanz's book has and will change that outlook.<br />Pfanz's look at Culps Hill was both well researched and well written. He argues that the battle itself was determined on its flanks, both on Little Round Top and Culps Hill. The fighting on Culps Hill was not as destructive as the other areas of the battlefield, mostly due to the relatively low casualty figures from the breastworks constructed earlier on July 2nd, but its importance in the overall scheme has been unfairly overlooked.<br />This book boasts an impressive bibliography that includes various primary accounts that were largely unheard of until this book's publication. In short, it opened my eyes to the real story of Gettysburg.	2004-01-06
