US	50955734	R3L11Z4JZL4M8C	1400049466	203629872	Farewell, Godspeed: The Greatest Eulogies of Our Time	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Thought provoking -- what else shoud a book be?	What a book.  It is the compilation of about eighty eulogies of some of the most influential persons of their times, given by a myriad of people.  There is neither rhyme nor reason, save the fact that they have touched people; some millions, some few. <br />We find words by John Kennedy, and of John Kennedy.  Of Albert Einstein, David O. Selznick, Charles Schultz, Che, Martin, the Duke and the Challenger astronauts.  <br />Anyone smart enough to be able to read will go through this book and come to its end with one thought:  \\"What would I want to be said about me?\\"  And after that thought, who knows what action may follow!<br />Damn.	2004-04-04
US	50955734	R1AQ4TK9V7XJDJ	0385508980	546276988	The Mad Dog 100: The Greatest Sports Arguments of All Time	Books	5	9	14	N	Y	A must for sports fans.	This is a great beach or airplane book for fans of sport, whether your bag is the NCAA Final Four, the Super Bowl, the Stanley Cup or the Series.  All those, plus horseracing, boxing, tennis and all manner of both major and minor sports are here.<br />Do you prefer Willie, Mickey or the Duke?  Think that the rivalry between North Carolina and Duke is greater that the Sox vs. Yankees or Giants vs. Dodgers?  Russo has the arguments on all of these and three hundred pages more.  He is pretty well balanced also, which I think makes for great analysis (the essence of arguing the imponderable).<br />Chris Russo does sports talk on WFAN in New York.  I suppose (having left The Apple before the advent of talk radio) that these and many many more are the stuff that makes sports talk radio so interesting and compelling.  I agree with another reviewer who notes that (like most of us) the greatest concentration (although certainly not all) of Russo's entries includes those players and teams whom he has witnessed personally - another reason to always be the old man at the bar in this argument (so we can tell the whippersnappers that \\"if you had only seem Jackie Robinson play like I did, you'd feel differently\\".)  It is what good dialogue should be: a handful of stats (acknowledging that some may view slugging percentage above on base percentage) and lots of argument (without shouting, invective or other unpleasantries).<br />This book reads easy, in short chapters of several pages as well as short (four or five paragraph) lists.  It makes it easy to compare DiMaggio to Williams, and the case for Mays over Mantle.  There are as many arguments as there are categories of sport:  Which was the greater achievement, Ted Williams' .406 season or Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak? Does Ali beat Louis?  Among my favorites is the question of the five greatest athletes of the century (I agree with Russo that ESPN shamelessly pandered to Jordan by putting him ahead of The Greatest of All Time and The Babe.)  <br />The reader who won't want to stop reading after several pages and argue a point with another fan is not a true aficionado of Sport! For all sports fans, it is a great gift.	2004-03-21
US	50955734	R2OZB1EQ5Q0AHW	1412018722	785013127	Aiki: Journey to Self-Mastery	Books	5	4	4	N	N	So much more than a Martial Arts book.	Like this book, Aikido is an incredibly complex art.  The way it was taught and lived by Sensei Bill Sosa was more layered than an onion.  His earlier work (such as \\"The Essence of Aikido\\") was focused on the Art form a new practitioner's perspective.  But as Bill Sosa spent more time in the Art, it consumed so much more of his life.  Happily, he passed this wisdom on via his influence over the lives of his students of many years (I am privileged to say I was one, for more that fifteen years).<br />This book has not a single technique, pin or throw; so for those looking for an insight into Sensei Sosa's skills as an instructor of the Art (and those skills were formidable, to be sure) will find this in one of his earlier works.<br />But for anyone and everyone looking to see how a martial art has applications for everyone in the course of daily life, this is the place to search.  Aikido, the way of harmony of energy, is about courage, love, discipline and the abundant peace of self actualization.  Aiki is more than a fighting art, as he used to say.  It is a way of life.  We are blessed to have had him with us, and this book is a wonderful legacy.<br />See it here.	2004-03-18
US	50955734	R1FM92IGUYYI4X	0151006288	250407107	October Men: Reggie Jackson, George Steinbrenner, Billy Martin, and the Yankees' Miraculous Finish in 1978	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	"The Boys of Summer"  for the next generation!	Kahn once again affirms his brilliance.  No one writes better about Baseball, particularly New York Baseball.  This new work is, to my thinking, his best ever.<br />Of course, there is enough drama, character (and characters) for everyone and his Daddy to be able to write about baseball in general, and the New York Yankees in particular.  Kahn takes the challenge of this much material on, and comes up with a better book than I can recall about Baseball ever.  It covers a great deal, but his writing style is SO enjoyable, that it moves incredibly rapidly.<br />He writes a bit about the history of New York Baseball, Willie, Mickey and the Duke, Joe D., Stengel, Berra, Jackson, Gehrig and of course Ruth (as have many others).  Only Kahn, however, puts the sale in terms of 2003 dollars (proving it to be by far the hugest baseball deal of all time).    <br />Goodbye grits, Hello Oysters Rockefeller.  Who has ever turned such a phrase?  No one but Kahn, telling in these five words more than anyone else has written before about the deal which brought North Carolinian Jim Catfish Hunter to the Yankees. <br />Being a passionate fan of New York baseball for more than half a century, Kahn has a love and knowledge of baseball second to  none.  Few writers (only Roger Angell and David Halberstam come to mind as near competitors) are able to bring this passion from heart to paper.  He also writes this story in a manner most comprehensive, bringing the reader into the context of the story by relating what is happening in New York and the country which impacts the Yankees story (this may be an answer to the criticism of another reviewer who laments the mention of U.S. Presidents and N.Y. Mayors).<br />In taking about troubles experienced by The Dark Prince, Billy Martin, Kahn notes that Herman Melville had written two busts: Redburn and Mardi before his epic Moby Dick.  I dont know if Kahn had written any busts before, but regardless of what elseKahn had written before, this is as great!   Any lover of The Greatest Game On Earth will love this book.	2003-05-04
US	50955734	R2OER8AQM9HZPF	074342817X	100314387	The Envy of the World: On Being a Black Man in America	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Well worth the read	I agree that every young African American male ought to read this book (but I'd also recommend Rage of the Privileged Class).  It tells a concrete-hard story of what most Black young men go through with tenderness and compassion.  Without the angst filled, anger inducing stories which lamentably are a part of the life of most of those to whom the book is directed, it explains what life is likely to be about.  <br />Most of us have had the experience of the fear during the extended police stop, the frustration with the overly attentive shopclerk at the exclusive store or the amusement at the person shrinking in fear upon entry into an elevator.  This book is filled with insights and wisdom obtained from men from Harvard to prison.  &quot;The Envy of The World&quot; is well worth reading, sharing with friends and contemplating.  While it is not the source of all the answers, it does close with a section on solutions and it certainly adds insight in exploring the questions and challenges.	2003-01-29
US	50955734	ROAJQQYKTX2KA	0060925949	32503346	The Rage of a Privileged Class: Why Are Middle-Class Blacks Angry? Why Should America Care?	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Makes me wanna holler! Throw up both my hands.	Ellis Cose has written brilliantly with regard to the American Dilemma.  This is without a doubt his best work. Cose has interviews with successful African-American men and women, including lawyers and corporate executives. What comes forth is a searing indictment of our society, and a warning with regard to (as James Baldwin wrote more than a generation ago) \\"the fire next time\\".<BR> <BR>A central theme of the work makes clear that regardless of the rate of one's acknowledges material success; racial prejudice remains one of if not the most pervasive and oppressing impacts on the lives of people of color in this society.<br />\\"What is there to be angry about?\\", one may ask.    Our President enjoys the benefits which have flowed to him solely due to his Father's success at Yale.  At the same time, he decries as \\"unfair\\" a Law School's use of race to assist in determining which members of this generation will get to enjoy the same benefit.  One person is unabashed about his ability to enjoy the blessings of an accident of birth.  Another is challenged and denigrated for the temerity of seeking a corner of the same benefit.   <br />Sometimes, seeing someone else explain the problem makes it not necessarily easier to deal with, but easier to understand (I guess in some way that leads to being easier to deal with). Often as I read this, I thought \\"yeah\\".<br />If the \\"privileged class\\", those who by virtually every yardstick appear to be \\"making it\\" (and have the most invested in this society) have this much rage, the feeling which is pervasive throughout much of the throughout the rest of Black America is something which must be resolved.  <br />Anyone who thinks that we have got this problem of race in America solved ought to read this book.	2003-01-29
US	50955734	R1BRD6JPHGMTPP	0743203291	742968691	Robert Kennedy: His Life	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Well written birgraphy of a challenging figure	Robert F. Kennedy was a compelling figure, and like too many others, struck down in the prime of his life.  Like most who suffer a tragic end early, his life is filled with \\"What ifs?\\"<br />His life was paradoxical.  He was hated by some, being a staffer for the Red-baiter, Joseph McCarthy, and so-called liberals would not let his work for McCarthy be forgotten.  \\"Ruthless\\" was the adjective given early on, as his bigger brother's hatchet man during the 1960 Presidential campaign and during the 1,000 days of Camelot.  But during this time, his association with McCarthy was forgiven as Kennedy's compassion for those less fortunate than him came to the forefront.<BR>  <BR>Biographer Thomas has written engaging and readable biographies of D.C legendary attorney, Edward Bennett Williams and some of the shapers of the post war world (The Wise Men).  His style is very readable, with sufficient detail to give texture to the story without being too bogged down in detail as to make the book move too slowly.<br />Some reviewers criticize this work for not being able to explain away all of the paradoxical inconsistencies of Robert Kennedy.  I think this expects too much of anyone.  How can any person know all that makes a person tick?  Any thoughtful individual should be expected to grow and to evolve (God help us all if this were not so).  Contradictions abound in him, like in most of us.<br />By book's end, I did not have answers to all of the questions about Robert Kennedy.  I did, however have a better feel for his years in power as well as a bit better understanding of the turbulent first two-thirds of the 1960's.   As another reviewer noted, Robert Kennedy had a significant role to play in the seminal events experienced in the United States during this era.  His fingerprints were to be found on decisions related to the Bay of Pigs, the zenith of the Civil Rights Movement, the Red Scare, labor relations and organized crime.   He was there and impacting each of these.  This balanced assessment of his role in these events is certainly enough for me to find this worthwhile.	2002-11-04
US	50955734	R2A6LEMS0G0X50	0671021273	926743636	The Eugenics Wars Vol I:  The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh (Star Trek)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delighted to see it start.  Hated to see it end.	I resisted the urge not to buy this book, because it clearly said Vol. 1.  Nonetheless my despair at seeing it end was overwhelmed by the wonder of the book itself.  <br />The years between \\"now\\" and the commencement of the Star Trek saga some three hundred years up the road have been a void.  Occasionally, someone (usually Spock) will comment about days gone past, but for the most part the past was the past; seldom referenced and certainly never fully explored.  <br />Of course, the original series episode \\"Assignment Earth\\" changed all that.  There, the Enterprise went back in time to Our day and time (at least this was so when the series first aired).  I was (and remain) less than enthused about that character, and certainly his sidekick the ditzy Roberta Lincoln.  <br />But somehow, author Greg Cox brings them all together.  He brings them together with the most compelling guest EVER brought into the series, Kahn Noonien Singh.  He was conceived the<BR>Chrysalis Project, an idea spawned by some of the worlds best scientists, led by whiz-bang geneticists.  Their goal (like half the bad guys ever born) is to create a race of supermen - better living through chemistry, as the old commercials said.  They make it work, creating a pleasingly inter-cultural group of children to take command of the entire planet.  The cream of this<BR>genetically improved crop of course is our Man, K.N.S.  Most of the plot covers the attempts of Gary Seven (who we may recall is a human trained and used for good by some other advanced aliens).  His challenge is to close down the Project, and prevent its progeny from taking over the world.  We know, however, form seeing Space Seed a couple of hundred times (thank you, syndication!), than he cannot succeed.  Spock tells us that Kahn came to rule some large percentage of Earth in<BR>his day.  We don't get there here, (makes me crave Vol. 2), but seeing Kahn's development from life as a young boy is a fascinating read. <br />Some criticize the book because of a lack of characterization and plot associated with Kirk and the crew.  I found that they were not missed at all, as the life of young \\"Noon\\" was sufficient for me.  Unlike another, I enjoyed the interspersion of current events as we know (?) them.  It's been years since I enjoyed the original series.  I had never read a book related to Star Trek before this one.  Now that Vol. 2 is out, I am eager for the next installment.	2002-08-13
US	50955734	R1OU0D0FMEU2FX	0764551469	271537848	Golf For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Adds to a beginer's knowledge, but cannot teach the game.	This is a great book for a beginner, once he or she decides that another terribly frustrating hobby is needed in life.<br />As noted, it gives an overview of the game, some of its history and the rules of etiquette .  It will let one know about \\"playing through (with the mantra \\"Play fast\\"), and how to comport oneself at a country club. <br />Like another, I picked up golf this past year, and the book gave me a brief overview of the game. I agree with another reviewer that the lessons to build your swing are well written and informative, but I disagree with the reviewer who suggests that the money spent on a good professional coach to learn the swing is better spent here.   <br />For that, no video, or book is a substitute for a good live teacher, and a few hundred buckets of balls.	2002-08-12
US	50955734	R2OFP6UXZMN1U5	1580631789	10456057	Brush With the Law	Books	2	6	20	N	N	Wrong!	What's wrong is the last line of section detailing the authors' respective bios.  It states that after comparing their respective<BR>stories, they conclude \\"It sounded like a good story\\".<br />What a crock.  Most folks whom I met while attending law school (I graduated from Harvard in 1979) worked awfully hard and while they were there, wanted to be perceived as working even harder.  Then, after graduation, the reverse seems to happen, and people generally want to downplay how hard they actually did have to work.  <br />NEVER have I  heard any bull like this, though (and I would have, too).  It is nothing but a ton of bragging about doing nothing, and doing well.  If we are to believe these two, they lied, scammed  and cheated their way through two first rate law schools, gambling, screwing, drinking and doing drugs rather<BR>than spending time in class or the library.  All the while making A's and B's.  I'd bet against it.<br />They boast of doing all manner of illegal things during these three years.  I guess though, that past all this we are expected to believe that they are above lying  Why should we believe this story? <br />Anyone who thinks this is the way that one can get through law school is fooling themselves.   Anyone thinking of going to law school should put this aside.	2002-07-29
US	50955734	R22OQ431V101CM	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	Typically brilliant Caro - a Masterful tale	Once again, Robert Caro hits a home run.  The third volume of the LBJ biography is even better (to my mind, at least) than either volumes one or two.  The first hundred pages is the best history of the United States Senate I have ever read.  <br />Caro's writing style is never ever boring.  He turns a phrase as well as any fiction author, and captures the imposing presence of LBJ.  For the reader it is as if we were actually on the Senate floor, being buttonholed by Johnson himself.  LBJ alternately cajoled, threatened, flattered, fawned and browbeat his colleagues as he consolidated power in himself as no one ever had before him.<br />The story of this volume is Johnson's transformation from a typical Southern Senator, with all the baggage that entails, to the man who masterminded the passage of the first Civil Rights law in one hundred years. There is no question that the Act as passed was tepid, and the jury trial guarantee which was included in order to get the Southern Senators to acquiesce to its passage was enough to ensure that perpetrators of rights violation could do so without fear of conviction. Nonetheless, if only for its symbolic significance, Caro makes clear that this did offer hope to a segment of the population sorely in need of even that symbolic victory.  There is ample evidence presented for those who believe that Johnson went through this effort and transformation because of his driving ambition to be President. <br />His most brilliant work since the Robert Moses bio.  No doubt this volume will join that opus as one of the most important biographies of our time.	2002-06-27
US	50955734	R1JLIA0N4KZLPH	0684863022	447276667	Empire Statesman: The Rise and Redemption of Al Smith	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Emperor of the Empire State.  A giant.	A great story, about an individual who personifies everything great about America.  Alfred E. Smith was the son of immigrants, whose parents ended up in Manhattan's Lower East Side.  His Father died early in his life, leaving Smith to take care of his family.<br />Take care of them he did, leaving school as a child to get a job in the Fulton Fish Market, and thereafter becoming a self-educated man, who never forgot his origins.  He associated with<BR>Tammany Hall, and found his way to Albany as a state representative.  From there, he ran for and became Governor of The Empire State.  He rose to greatness from the humblest of origins.<br />As noted, no less than Franklin Delano Roosevelt paid the highest compliment to Smith, saying that the foundation of his own New Deal came from what Smith had done first as Governor of<BR>New York.  He said: &quot;Practically all the things we've done in the federal government are the things Al Smith did as governor of New York.&quot;   Smith was the champion of the working man<BR>and woman, first distinguishing himself after one of the country's worst industrial tragedies, the Triangle Shirtwaist Company fire.  <br />Sadly, most Americans outside of New York who know of Smith learned of him through what biographer Slayton accurately called the nastiest and most vicious political campaign in the history<BR>of the Republic, when Smith was the first Catholic American to run for President in 1928 against Herbert Hoover (ironically, the candidate called best for business at the time).  According to the author, by any measure of analysis, the reason Smith lost was due to those narrow minded individuals who would not accept him as their President because of his choice of religion,<BR>otherwise guaranteed him under the Constitution.  <br />But for Smith, we'd have a different feeling about what makes America great.  He blazed a trail which shamed America into revealing a level of greatness it had never acknowledged before his time; culminating in the election of John F. Kennedy more than thirty years later.  The commitment he had for the least of Americans became the saving grace of the country after the<BR>depths of the Depression.  Before the buzzword of the day was diversity, Smith was unabashed about celebrating it in his City, State and Nation.<br />He remains to my mind one of the greatest statesmen the Country ever produced.  Biographer Slayton has done a phenomenal job in bringing his story to life.	2002-03-25
US	50955734	R9ASTJ92DU5KU	0465008437	158897103	The Ungovernable City: John Lindsay and His Struggle to Save New York	Books	2	30	43	N	N	Should have left out the political bias	Like many other reviewers, I found this to be an engaging review of some of New York's most recent history, and was pleased to have the opportunity to reflect on that tumultuous era. However, as a Native New Yorker who lived through Mayor Lindsay's administration, I was troubled by the inaccuracies of which I personally was aware, and therefore was led to question the scholarship generally. Otherwise, I share the same problem with many other reviewers: The fact that the book could have been better if the author had left his disdain for liberal policies on the floor with other discarded parts of the first draft.<br />I guess the theory that Lindsay's administration was a flop would have been appreciably harder to substantiate if there had been an accurate description of the racial turmoil New York avoided due to his leadership. I vividly recall what happened in the late sixties in Newark, and Detroit, Watts and a half dozen other cities. It matters not at all what the author says (particularly when it is a repetition of the mantra that because only two were killed and twenty arrested, Lindsay was wrong to deny that this constituted a \\"riot\\"). <br />I don't know what another reviewer means when he speaks of a New Yorks's time as a \\"quiet riot\\" That seems rather onymoronic to me. The fact remains that New York avoided the turmoil that infected too many other cities because of Lindsay himself. Thousands correctly believed that Lindsay cared enough to actually interact with people who had been ignored (save at election time) in the past gave them a sense that there may well have been an alternative to destroying the City. I guess that the facts obscured the author's political agenda.<br />While it is certainly \\"Inside Baseball\\", I must point out that the author (in discussing Lindsay's relationship with teachers) describes the allegedly deteriorating relationship between teachers and kids at Springfield Gardens High School. Cannato quotes a teacher saying that prior to the strikes in 1968, life was better at that school. However, as a proud student of S.G.H.S. from those very same days, I know that the school didn't have its first graduating class until that year. Since it was not open in the years before (the good old days, I guess), I must question the validity of this comparison. Makes me wonder how legitimate some of the other justifications and his other \\"facts\\" are... <br />I grew tired of the unnecessary characterizations of some of the other individuals who were quoted. Noted sociology professor (of N.Y.'s Queens College) Andrew Hacker could have been quoted (like others) without having his political beliefs being labeled as he was. The truth will show itself, without varnish of this hyperbole.<br />Practically ignoring the fact that Lindsay inherited staggering deficits from his predecessor but responded with a string of balanced budgets reflects (at least to me) that Cannato is more interested in asserting his theory of the inadequacy of the Lindsay years than the facts. Without balance, there is simply no legitimate analysis.<br />Given the author's admitted bias, it is inexcusable to be so critical with NO suggestion whatsoever of what policies Mayor Lindsay should have put in place rather than those he did. What would Cannato have done with students at Columbia University, surrounded by the neighborhood hostile to its expansion on one side, and young activist students on the other? Ditto the New York municipal unions, like the Police, Transit Workers, Teachers and the Sanitation Department. Does Cannato suggest that the appropriate response would have been to bring in the National Guard to run the trains or teach the children? Or, should he have immediately capitulated to the Sanitation Workers, rather than seek the Court's intervention? It is so easy to be critical now, thirty years and some appreciable prosperity later. But even with the benefit of 20-20 hindsight, we are not afforded the author's wisdom. Be nice tohear what he would have done differently, as opposed to just telling us what he thought was wrong. <br />The bottom line? The challenges faced by Mayor Lindsay in The Big Apple were later seen by big city and small-town mayors all across the country. It sure made it easier for some others to respond after they had the chance to see what New York had done first, and respond either by imitation or contrast. Cannato has shown that those who can do, and that some of those who cannot merely criticize.	2002-03-25
US	50955734	R18BROO8DFBIYZ	0060195576	385195167	Ghosts of Manila: The Fateful Blood Feud Between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier	Books	1	18	49	N	Y	Polluted by an envious author.	Like another, I was enthusiastic with regard to this work about an exciting figure, his tragic foil , and the classic battle which raised them both to epic status.  What a disappointment! As another reviewer noted, author Mark Kram in this work seems intent on undoing the media &quot;romance history&quot; of Ali as civil rights \\"leader\\" (more on that later).  To me, it goes much afrther than that.  It is as if Kram wants to denigrate everything Ali stood for, every good he ever did or even sought to accomplish.  In the process, he also seems to also somehow suggest that what most boxing cognoscenti acknowledge as one of the greatest fights of all time was just another fight.<BR>  <BR>Nonsense abounds.  The notion that in 1966 Ali was \\"more a celebrity and a polemicist than a fighter\\" tells me all I need to know about the judgment of this guy.   Kram is particularly critical of Ali (and suggests he is cowardly) for not yielding to the draft and going into the Army, particularly since he suggests that Ali would not have had to fight VietCong, but only exhibition bouts.  (Of course, since the consensus was that he would (like Joe Louis before him) not go into combat, what was there to be afraid of?)   Nonetheless, to me it is hard to label anyone who fought the two \\"indestructible\\" opponents of his time (Sonny Liston early on and George Foreman at the end of his great days) as cowardly.  As an aside, Kram neglects to tell us where he was during Vietnam, an unpardonable sin for one who then goes to great lengths to criticize someone else's position.  <BR>    <BR>Either he cannot or he adamantly refuses to appreciate the contribution of a young Ali to the African-American community.  Kram refuses to acknowledge that the position take by Ali in the<BR>mid to late sixties resonated among a huge segment of the African-American community well before he became popular on the college lecture circuit.    Perhaps Kram does indeed believe that<BR>were he an African-American of that time, he would not have held Ali and his beliefs in high esteem.  Neither he nor we will ever know.  The fact remains that he makes the fatal mistake of<BR>many critics, to damn that which he could not understand. <br />Kram characterizes Bryant Gumbel as a mediocre thinker.  His thinking (as reflected by this book) is far worse.  <br />Instead of wasting an evening with this book, I suggest everyone acquire a video of the Thrilla in Manilla, or even better, watch \\"When We Were Kings\\".  It provides a far superior insight into one of the greatest figures of the twentieth century.	2001-11-19
US	50955734	R3ONMPPB5DL84U	0395860423	605698458	The Gentleman From New York : Daniel Patrick Moynihan: A Biography	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A biography worth reading	I found this to be a fascinating biography, which a good author can accomplish regardless of what one thinks about the subject. <br />Unlike another reviewer, I do not think that History will remember Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan in the same thoughts as the great American senators, alongside L.B.J. or Daniel Webster. As noted, Moynihan is not known as one of the Senate's great legislators. Critics regularly pointed to the fact that he was never (at least, in a leadership role) associated with any sweeping legislation, and his lofty presence made accommodation and the give and take of the Senate was difficult for him. <br />This is a wonderful biography, which (except for the occasional errors pointed out by other reviewers) remains well written and an engrossing story. Biographer Godfrey Hodgson is admittedly a long-observing and apparently close friend of his subject. Some assert that this the major strength and major of this work while others assert that this is the major weakness of the biography. However, I remain unconvinced that for such an intimate portrait, complete (or even relative) objectivity is impossible to attain. It is hard to imagine a subject letting someone get close enough to do a thorough job who is not a friend. And as we too often see, without the at least tacit blessing of the subject, many people who can offer good insights will not cooperate. <br />Moynihan was seldom predictable from an ideological perspective. Who else could work for both Kennedy and Nixon, and end up vilified by both liberals and conservatives? Yet, he was consistently respected by Senate colleagues in both parties. Few seriously question the fact that he had a massive intellect. This makes even more interesting the fact that Moynihan so assiduously sought verification and validation of positions which he had taken years before (evidenced by the satisfaction he took as seeing the NAACP - endorsed writings with regard to his decades-earlier call to alarm with regard tothe state of the Black family). While many on the left decried some of his positions (the author seems to infer that the occasional, but continued reference to his comment re &quot;benign neglect&quot; was more painful that the stenosis which afflicted his spine), he remained a champion of those whom society left behind. <br />All of those who are interested in American or New York politics will enjoy this read. However, I do not find it to be (nor do I think it tries to be) as much an in-depth tome on contemporary American history as another reviewer has suggested. For anyone looking for a study (and an attempted explanation) of an incredibly complex figure in 20th century American history, this is a fine addition to the mosaic.<br />The book concludes with Moynihan's musings regarding what now means to be a liberal, and the role (and ability) of government vis a vis social problems.  This is thought provoking and a challenge to many readers (including myself). What else can we expect from a biography?	2001-04-25
US	50955734	R2JCXMTMMLLAKT	1580630219	196501122	Homicide: Life on the Streets--the Unofficial Companion	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A valued companion for a great show.	My Bride hooked me on this show (thank God for syndication!).  This book helped me understand more about the characters and the actors who portrayed them in television's most compelling program in years (even though I know more about Luther Mahoney now, the actor portraying him still gives me the chills in other roles).  The plot explanations often link up earlier (sometimes later) episodes.  Moreover, they link to other programs, like Law &amp; Order,  NYPD Blue and other great TV.<br />An easy read as it is broken into two parts (one for the participants generally and then a season and episode chronology).  I would like to see an update, to complete the end of the series.	2000-12-12
US	50955734	R21H0VFFR1U9XV	088001654X	996921601	Fail Safe	Books	5	18	22	N	N	No better Cold War thriller was ever written	Although it is now close to FORTY years old, &quot;Fail-Safe&quot; puts today's crop of political novelist to shame.  A more compelling story has not been written.<br />The story is simple:  a mechanical error send a group of U.S. Bombers towards the Soviet Union.  The President tries mightily to recall them, in an effort to avoid the inevitable Soviet retaliation.  He has to make an incredible sacrifice to keep the world from World War III.<br />Forget about the incredibly complex turns of my favorite writer of this genre, F. Forsyth.  T. Clancy 's interwoven stories and mind numbing detail does not even come close to this simple, chilling story.  Could it happen?   Of course not, because of the fail-safe system.  Or so they tell us... <br />Like Coke, this is the real thing.	2000-11-19
US	50955734	R3DNSQNLO02KWU	0374517576	725884757	This Was Harlem: A Cultural Portrait, 1900-1950	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Outstading story about a poorly understood part of America	Jervis Anderson has contributed mightily to the history of New York, America and African American life with this work.  This is a comprehensive exploration of the area which was without question the center of African-American life. <br />Harlem was first settled by the Dutch, New York's first immigrant group.  African Americans ultimately resided in much of it, as it became the Mecca for Blacks arriving from the South.  Harlem became the epicenter for Black America, and was such a source of pride in the accomplishments of the race.  Before the era of integration, Harlem was home to a multitude of Black-owned businesses.  During the Renaissance in the early 1900's it was the center of Black culture, and some of the greatest thinkers, sociologists and entertainers of the era called Harlem home.<br />It is an easy read, worth searching for.	2000-11-19
US	50955734	R35VGVNOOD4NPV	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Ludlum's best	This is, to my mind, Robert Ludlum's best book ever.  He has written some great work, most of it now about twenty years old.  It still reads fresh, though.  Ludlum has written some really fine books.  They are, before anything else, incredibly compelling stories.   Ludlum has never had to rely on the details of how to create an atomic bomb, or what the sights of a submachine gun are made of in order to create a great story.  That is what sets his work apart from so many contemporary writers.<br />The story starts 100 years ago, with the creation of a dynasty called the Matarese which is led by one incredibly insightful and equally evil man.  It brings us to the a family chillingly close to the Kennedys, just a step from the White House.  The protagonists are America's and the Soviet's top spies, who, hate each other and (of course) must work together to save their respective nation's interests.<br />This is a great book to take on vactaion, when the reader has hours to devote.  Don't start this unless you have time, and nothing pressing that must be done.	2000-11-19
US	50955734	R115CHL6ITL4XX	0553572423	328007521	The Fist of God	Books	5	32	33	N	N	One of the best of the genre.	There is a reason why so many other reviewers rave about this book.  Just like his earlier works, from &quot;The Day of the Jackal&quot;' to &quot;The Devil's Alternative&quot;, he keeps the reader turning the pages.  Even though we know going in that Iraq loses in the end, it is an incredibly compelling story.  It may be Forsyth's best read ever.  <br />F. Forsyth is a master of suspense novels, taking factual bases and turning them into riveting stories.  This is as great as any of his earlier works.  The plot twists are stunning.<br />His research is the equal of Tom Clancy's.  His writing style is so much tighter, and there does not seem to be a single wasted word.  If  you have an early morning meeting, or something else that must be done, DO NOT start this book.	2000-11-17
US	50955734	R1728O03U2ZY5M	0300055366	478534335	The Encyclopedia of New York City	Books	5	56	57	N	N	A great reference book and history.	Another reviewer said it best:  Every New Yorker ought to own this book.  It is huge, and chocked full of obscure facts about literally every facet of New York life.  Sure, we all know who Bronck was, and working my way through Gotham, I learned about the Delancey family.  But here, looking up the old neighborhood, I was able to find out how streets got their names, and so much more.<br />Want to know who won Mayoral elections?  Look here.  Want to know which newspapers were published and when?  Again, look here.  Searching one entry will guarantee that two or three or ten others will pop into mind.  It is great for specific knowledge and for just browsing.<br />Not even the most knowledgeable New Yorker could read through this book and not learn some things.  A wonderful reference work.	2000-11-17
US	50955734	RCMTQ172CDS3H	1559722614	774796705	Justice Brennan: The Great Conciliator	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Wonderful story of a great jurist.	Justice Brennan spent more than thirty years on the Supreme Court.  He  joined the Warren Court, decried by some as &quot;liberal activists&quot;.   He served with distinction there, on the Burger Court, and finally the  Rehnquist Court (which some decry as reactionary conservative activists).   On all three, he regularly was the man who spoke for the Court on many of  the important issues of the times.<br />The enduring question is &quot;How  could this man mold and shape such disparate groups of Justices to the  point where he wrote some of the most significant majority opinions of our  time?&quot;  With typical modesty, Justice Brennan said, that he learned  early how to count to five.<br />Rod Clark does a masterful job in his  chronicle of the life, the influences, the context and the enduring legacy  of Justice Brennan.  He was a trail blazer in a host of areas of  jurisprudence:  First Amendment law, criminal defendants rights and women's  issues.  He has authored dozens of opinions affirming rights which we now  take for granted.  All this from the man who said &quot;I don't expect to  distinguish myself on the Court&quot;.<br />A true American original.  The  kind of person who helped make this country great.   A wonderful and easy  read.	2000-08-29
US	50955734	R1V1BLMCAKES8N	0689121725	79459514	Exiled in Paris: Richard Wright, James Baldwin, Samuel Beckett, and Others on the Left Bank	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Fascinating reading	After the end of the Second World War, a number of African Americans,  including many of our most talented intellectuals, decided that America was  just not a sufficiently hospitable home.  Those who could left for Europe.   Many, landed in Paris, which provided a far more civilized  society.<br />Literary giants like James Baldwin, Richard Wright and other  intellectuals found a place where their worth was determined by things more  significant than skin color.  This is the story of their  experiences.<br />Another book worth searching for.	2000-08-27
US	50955734	R3HTK410VD3RYX	0395945135	41494634	The Best American Sports Writing of the Century	Books	5	2	4	N	N	If you love either sports or great writing, this is for you!	Splendid writing, on a number of sports related topics.  D. Halberstam has  put together the best and brightest sports writers and some of their best  work.<br />It is a collection of some of the icons of the field of sports  journalism.  Some of the writing comes from the glory days, &quot;the  golden age&quot; of sports journalism when sports writers concealed the  foibles of America's sports heroes.  Included are legends like the immortal  Grantland Rice, Tom Boswell, Jimmy Breslin, Mike Lupica and Dick Young.   Many of these men wrote regularly for the great newspapers of their time;  their work spanned decades.  They made the best of their craft.<br />It is an  equally stellar work for the characters and the events portrayed.  There is  a whole section of the book devoted to Muhammad Ali.  Norman Mailer's  &quot;Ego&quot; and Dick Schaap's contribution  &quot;Then and Now&quot; by  themselves are worth the price of the book.  Fan of Ted Williams?  Check  out Richard Ben Cramer's contribution.  More fond of chess?  Look to  Barach's &quot;The Day Bobby [Fisher] Blew It&quot;.<br />Some of the best  writing ever. Great writing and fantastic subjects.  Who could ask for  anything more?	2000-08-04
US	50955734	R2FWIE0WUIRF9P	0671725823	889146047	Miles: The Autobiography	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Engaging, as is he	Many will argue that Miles Davis is the single most important individual  contributor to American music.  Whether this is true or not, his life as  well as his music is certainly worth a close examination. ...For those like me wondering what he  thought, this work was eagerly awaited.<br />Miles starts with his childhood,  and quickly moves into his early love of music and his more formal  training.  He speaks candidly of the many individuals with whom he helped  shape jazz music, like Bird, Dizzy, Jones, Trane and a host of others.  Interestingly, he projects that jazz will continue drawing fewer and fewer  fans as the years pass.  Perhaps another innovator like Miles Davis will  come along before it is too late, and save this particularly American art  form.<br />My only complaint?  The book is too real.  I found the incessant  obscenity much too distracting. ...After a short time, it loses its punch.<br />The  only thing missing would have been a soundtrack.  A couple of his boxed  sets to go along with this work is the only necessary accessory.	2000-08-04
US	50955734	R192HAV5ZJXK9A	0375406719	590093593	From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African Americans	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Brilliant scholarly work	Dr. Franklin is one of the greatest historians this country has ever  produced.  He holds degrees from Fisk and Harvard (two post graduate  degrees from Cambridge).  He has more honorary degrees than Carter has  little pills (or I guess now, peanuts). This work, now in its eighth  printing, is perhaps the greatest single reference work exploring the  African American experience and the contributions of this race to American  history, and has been so since the first edition was printed in 1947.<br />He starts by revealing more knowledge that most people ever fathomed  about the African experience in the pre-slavery centuries, with the  greatness that was the African continent in Ghana, Songhay and the rest of  Africa.  The exploration of the \\"peculiar institution\\" of  slavery, reconstruction and the post Civil War hope is complete and  brilliantly done.  The chapters on the Harlem Renaissance and the first  half of the twentieth century alone are worth the price of the book.<br />Extraordinarily well researched.  It is scholarly but never dry.  It is  objective, but never loses the passion for the subject.  A must for any  complete understanding of our history.	2000-08-04
US	50955734	R3UDPI8V6IV6SZ	0684810654	512469691	Walking With The Wind: A Memoir of the Movement	Books	5	40	41	N	N	A great American triumph	Uplifting. Eloquent. Brilliant. Inspiring. Patriotic.  <br />John Lewis' life story is the story of a genuine American hero.  The depth and strength of  his moral conviction shows what character can accomplish.  This book, just  as this man's life, cannot be overrated or over-appreciated.<br />John Lewis,  as a young man had the calling.  His deeply religious upbringing ultimately  led him to the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and work with Rev.  Martin Luther King.  He sat in where Black people were not wanted.  He  demanded for Black people the rights to which all Americans have an  expectation.  He walked the walk at a time when it was not only unpopular,  but downright death defying.<br />He moved from the pulpit to the halls of  Congress, where he serves to this day.<br />As inspiring a work as I have ever  read.  Ought to be required reading by everyone in the Nation for a deeper  understanding of the power of the American spirit.	2000-08-04
US	50955734	R3IO2YGAAFSYCA	0020034717	527089365	Adam Clayton Powell Junior the Political Biography of an American Dilemma	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exploration of a fascinating figure.	Hamilton has done an extraordinary job with one of America's most enigmatic political figures.  Representative Powell was a man hard to  figure by anybody.  A rascal, decried as a corrupt politician, loved by his  constituents and vilified by much of the establishment.<br />Powell was one of  the century's (I guess that is now &quot;last century's&quot;) first and  longest serving African American members of Congress.  He was on the  forefront of the campaign against lynching.  He brought the moral  imperative of the Freedom Rides and the lunch counter sitins going on in  the South to the major urban areas of the North.<br />His position as a  vociferous champion of civil rights (more than his indiscretions) led his  colleagues in the House to try to oust him.  When his constituents rejected  this initiative and overwhelmingly returned him to Congress, he had to go  the the Supreme Court for his right to continue service (even after being  stripped of his seniority.<br />Great history, and great reading.  A  thoroughly engaging subject.  Even as an out-of-print book it is well worth  waiting for.	2000-08-04
US	50955734	R2V9K31A6MB3MH	038546889X	387688293	Race: How Blacks and Whites Think and Feel About the American Obsession	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Typically outstanding Terkel	Studs Terkel may be the greatest American chronicler of oral history.  I recall an introduction to his writing by reading his book &quot;Working&quot; while in college twenty five years ago.  I love his  ability to tell history by and through the words of those who have lived  it.<br />&quot;Race&quot; is the most difficult topic he has ever chosen.   Gunnar Myrdal was correct when he called it the American dilemma.  Terkel  examines it from not just one perspective or two (or even three). Instead,  he has brought together dozens of varying perspectives on the most dividing  issue in the Nation.  The greatness of this work does not come from the  well known names, although there are many:  from Louis Farrakhan, Dr.  Kenneth Clark, the Mother of Emmett Till and Clarence Page.  Also included  are those who are unknown (but nonetheless speak to and for legions of  other Americans of all races and persuasions).<br />It is nothing if not  thought provoking.  The participants come to life in the writing of this  excellent work.  It will make the reader rethink some of his/her closely  held notions, and see a different perspective.  Whether any ideas change or  not, reading &quot;Race&quot; and thinking about its content it is an  exercise in which we should all engage.	2000-07-30
US	50955734	R3S1BDEVK8XNX9	0060183527	649757762	Our Kind of People: Inside America's Black Upper Class	Books	1	44	60	N	N	Pathetic	What a shame to see this type of wasted talent.  After reading (and enjoying) Graham's &quot;Member of the Club&quot;, I expected so much more.  Sadly, what we have here is little more than several hundred pages of the  way some Blacks have emulated the worst traits of some Anglos.<br />I am  reminded of the old adage:  &quot;From those to whom much is given, much is  expected&quot;.  One could not tell from this self- aggrandizing,  pseudo-intellectual, shallow drivel what good Graham seeks to do for anyone  other than himself.  The organizations which Graham lauds have done some  good work (like the Links' scholarship program), but far too much of this  book is wasted naming which member of Congress or Mayor is in one of these  groups.  The book would be half its length but for its repetitive nature.   We here learn time and time again, who is in the Links, ot the Boulee of  the Committee of 1000, and where they sent their children.<br />What stands  out the most is the attitude of those who consider themselves DuBois  &quot;Talented Tenth&quot;.  Too much of the commentary found here about  other Blacks is what one would expect to hear from old Klansmen.  Indeed,  as is apparent from this work, we are too often our own enemy, looking down  surgically narrowed noses (more on that later) and less well off Blacks.   <br />Tragically telling is a ludicrous chapter on the ABC's of  &quot;passing&quot;.  It seriously suggests changing religions (like  joining the Presbyterian Church) or even more incredulously, the Republican  Party) in order not to be considered Black.  The bottom line of course is  to avoid associating with other Blacks.  And that racial superiority is the  constant theme of this whole book.    <br />Sadly and predictably we learn  (almost at the end of this book) that Graham seems to hate that which he is  and will always be:  A Black man in America.  For that reason alone, there  are some people who will never accept him, regardless of how many times he  and those who think like him put on their tuxedoes and sip champagne from  fine crystal.  This fact is lost on him, and as much as he tries to be  different, he cannot escape his birth defined existence.  The money which  he spent on the narrowing of his nose (which he reveals in a later chapter)  was wasted.  He would have been better off spending his cash getting some  help for his terribly confused psyche.	2000-07-30
US	50955734	R2FPN8PYK6XZQL	0571199526	237699106	Contempt of Court: The Turn Of-The-Century Lynching That Launched 100 Years of Federalism	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	Justice lives, even though a citizzen died.	A wonderful book, which chronicles a painful time in our Nation's history.  Curriden and Phillips have taken the events which led to the death of just one more poor Black man (one of far too many during that era) and explained  how this incident rekindles and reaffirms the notion of the supremacy of  Federal law.<br />A book for normal people, not just lawyers or those  interested in the law or civil rights.  It makes a potentially dry concept  (the relationship betweenm the states and the Federal government) come to  life.  More importantly, its shows just how essential the concept of  Federalism can be.<br />Should be required reading for anyone who decries the  &quot;meddlesome, activist Federal judges&quot;.	2000-07-23
US	50955734	R2ET5YPKPP14P3	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good UNLESS compared to the classic earlier work.	The problem with this book is solely derived from the the fact that its bloodlines are so strong.  If the Godfather did not exist, Omerta would be consided a classic.  However, this is what one must expect in trying to  follow the greatest American novel.<br />Like others critiques, I found it  sometimes incomplete and therefore unsatisfying.  Not as bad as an  &quot;outline&quot;, as one other critic described, but as the book  progressed, I wanted much much more.  While the writing was fine, and the  dialogue great, I sought more texture, more development (length like we get  from T. Clancy would have been welcomed).<br />I would have been much much  happier with the detail which made its predecessor the classic it was.	2000-07-23
US	50955734	R2TYQOX4C0RSE7	1891620487	686248495	American Greats	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Exemplifies the greatness of America	There is just too much from the Nation which we take for granted, and this book reminds up of just a tiny percentage of some of the innovations which helped shape our society.<br />Sure, when we see the Brooklyn Bridge, we  marvel at its timeless beauty.  We probably don't give barbed wire a second  thought, though.  Those old enough to recall FDR tell of the inspiration of  his Fireside Chats, and the rest of us can compare (through this work) them  to the Gettysburg Address.   But this work takes us so much farther.  The  courage of Mohawk Steel Workers walking across the sky, the Tuskeegee  Airmen bringing back every bomber they escorted and the inscrutable  creativity of Navajo Code Talkers are all admirably chronicled.<br />Everyone,  from fans of the Vette to those who prefer the Smithsonian; afficionadoes  of Duke Ellington vs. Sun Records (or both) will find something here to  contemplate and treasure.	2000-07-23
US	50955734	R3VNFC1SMPPS8X	0395797640	109146267	The Best American Sports Writing 1998 (The Best American Series )	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Just O.K.  Given the universe, should be much better.	Bill Littlefield made a couple of odd choices, and this series is a bit too narrow (given that it limits to a year's writing).<br />Try Halberstam's &quot;Best American Sports Writing of the Century&quot;.  Much better	2000-07-07
US	50955734	R3T44RUVPPEHO9	0767904656	649000501	Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A blueprint for the survival of Baseball	In a succinct manner, Bob Costas sets forth the future of Baseball.  It is not a rhapsody of why the game has been great over the generations; look elsewhere for that.  But if you are concerned about what will happen to our  game in the new millenium, it is at the very least worth the hour or two it  will take to complete.<br />The short answer Costas puts forth is that there  must be a cure for the disparity between the haves and have nots.  Costas  understands (implicitly, because he never uses these words) that the free  market and Baseball cannot co-exist.  Just as (he notes) no one pays to see  the Yankees intra-squad games, the game does not survive without strong  teams for the whole 162 game season.  He opines that what is needed is  revenue sharing, at least in terms of national TV money and the short term  benefits gleaned by teams that open new parks with sweetheart  public/private deals (like the Rangers, who with their new Ballpark went  from the bottom to become one of the most valuable franchises in the league  due to new digs).  Of course, with this also comes the need for a salary  cap.  His logic is simple and compelling:  what difference does it really  make if Derek Jeter makes fifteen million rather than twenty million?   Large market teams will certainly yell the loudest, but as he notes, it is  for The Good of the Game. <br />Left relatively unexplored, however, is the  long term impact upon the owners.  What must they sacrifice?  Will the rich  continue to get richer?  Will the rising tide lift all the boats?  I think  he assumes that the answer to this is yes, insofar as all teams will be  able to compete (as opposed to the current system where half of the teams  are practically, if not mathematically eliminated by the All Star break).   Giving all of the teams an opportunity to succeed means giving the game  this same opportunity to survive.<br />The book is nothing if not thought  provoking.  The comparisons between the crisis in the gamevis a vis the  NBA and the NFL bear serious consideration.  I am not sure about some of  his ideas like those about interleague play, but he is on the money  regarding so-called radical realignment.  Like another critique, I think he  is dead wrong about Rose (suggesting banning him from Baseball while at the  same time letting him in the Hall Of Fame).  The book is worth a read for  those who love or at least are concerned about our National Pastime.	2000-07-05
US	50955734	RH07V3T6I1RRM	0394480767	800538326	The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Brilliant work	This is the best book I have read in years.  It is nothing less than an OUTSTANDING piece of scholarship.  Caro has taken us through more than two generations of the history of the City and State of New York.<br />The story  of Robert Moses as told by Biographer Caro is in many ways the exploration  of the growth of &quot;modern&quot; New York City.  Moses made an impact on  the City in a way that almost cannot be overestimated.  It is impossible  for me to conceive of what the City would have been like (bioth good and  bad) without his influence.  Unfortunately, like most persons of great  power, he believed that his goals were sufficiently laudable to overcome  his occasional deceit, strongarming, and other abuses.  <br />Don't let the  daunting length and significant detail be off putting.  It is worth the  time, cost and effort.  Robert Caro has a penchant for outstanding work, as  evidenced more recently in the first two volumes of the history of L.B.J.  This is certainly the equal.	2000-07-04
US	50955734	R220JMO5D7FQRX	0553270907	668205060	The Class	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderful novel.	This is, in my opinion, Segal's best writing.  As is his way, he weaves fiction with portions of historical fact, and realism in locale which make the reading more credible, and imminently enjoyable.  It moves through  conflicts and peacetime; from Cambridge to Europe and the Middle East.<br />It  is a delightful journey of a handful of young people through their  respective lives.  It has unrecognized (by some, at least) and public  triumph, the struggles, and uncertainties that we all have gone through.   These members of the Harvard Class of 1958 start in very different places,  move together in Cambridge, and then move away (and back together).  The  well managed story takes the fortunate reader right along with them.<br />In  this novel, I see friends (and acquaintances) from high school, college and  law school.  A touching and warm book, I have read (like many other  reviewers) time and time and time again.	2000-07-02
US	50955734	R28PKC0Q4YNDHV	0817304916	463334958	Unlikely Heroes	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A brilliant  history of turbulent times.	Jack Bass has written an outstanding history of an often unacknowledged but essential component of the civil rights movement.  This book is the story of a group of southern judges appointed to the Court of Appeals with  jurisdiction over the deep South during the 1950's and early '60's.  While  the Supreme Court, led by Chief Earl Warren appropriately got the headlines  for their groundbreaking decision in Brown vs Board of Education, the task  fell to this Court to wrestle with the meaning of &quot;deliberate  speed&quot; and more importantly (and also more of a challenge) to actually  implement this decision in their home states.<br />The Fifth Circuit Court of  Appeals of this time period was the greatest collection of talent ever  assembled in the history of American jurisprudence.  Their story is  testimony to their courage, often in the face of social ostracism, threats  of physical violence and all manner of disrespect.<br />The subjects of this  work, Judges Richard Rives, John Brown, John Wisdom and Elbert Tuttle are  among the most courageous men ever to don the robes and swear to uphold the  U.S. Constitution.  They were true to the oath they took, and in living up  to that affirmation, brought the South, kicking and screaming into the 20th  century. <br />A wonderfully researched work, easily readable for lawyers and  normal people.  Essential to the complete understanding of the times and  the efforts undertaken by those who sought to change them.	2000-06-29
US	50955734	R20QC1IVIQCTW8	0517205017	217362154	Only the Ball Was White	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Want to know the Game?  Don't forget this book.	There are dozens of books written on the Game.  This one is essential to a full understanding of Baseball.<br />Of course, it has gaps.  As it explains, there was seldom an official scorer, so we will never know exactly how many  home runs Josh Gibson hit, or how many games Satchel Paige won.   Nonetheless this is an outstanding compendium of research. <br />But is does  tell us of some of the great and heretofore unknowns of the game.  It tells  how Rube Foster helped create an institution in which African Americans  could take pride.<br />Want to know the only man to hit a fair ball out of  Yankee Stadium?  Check out the answer here in this book.	2000-05-20
US	50955734	R38VLZQLFYSM7O	068483247X	830260721	I Was Right On Time	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Right on time, indeed!	John Jordan &quot;Buck&quot; O'Neil was introduced to mainstream America via Ken Burns' outstanding documentary &quot;Baseball&quot;.  His warmth, downright humanity, and ability to tell the story of himself and his  contemporaries was the highlight of the series (which is really saying  something!).<br />O'Neil was the first Negro Leaguer to coach in the so-called  &quot;Majors&quot;.  He was a star in his own right' playing and coaching  the Kansas City Monarchs.  He saw the game and the Nation change more than  it ever has before or since:  from Babe Ruth, Satchel Paige and the giants  of Baseball's Golden Age in both the White and the Negro Leagues to  contemporary greats to be.<br />The stories about the barnstorming days of the  Negro Leagues are told without rancor and bitterness.  He saw, played with,  and shares with the readers the unrecognized potential of those men like  Josh Gibson, Rube Foster who never made the big show, and those he saw  integrate the game, like Robinson, Mays, Aaron and Bo Jackson.<br />An  uplifting read, and a triumph of the American spirit.	2000-05-20
US	50955734	R1W0SSJKJN6GVP	0195089588	724242239	Past Time: Baseball as History	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Baseball as America, because Baseball is America	I must start with the disclaimer:  I am an unabashed fan of Baseball.  To some of us, there is so much about Baseball which parallels the growth and development of our country.  Jules Tygiel does an admirable job of linking  some of Baseball's magic moments with the spirit of the times, and  interweaves the two in a fascinating piece of work.<br />The history of some  of the early magnates of the game (Comiskey, Mack and McGraw) parallels  some of the other early captains of industry, and understanding how they  did what they did explains much of how we have moved from agrarian society  to industrial capitalism.  The segregation of the Negro Leagues and the  ultimate integration of the game are richly explored, set with the backdrop  of the issue of race in America.<br />&quot;The Shot Heard Round The  World&quot; was certainly one of the games greatest moments.  But I had  never thought of it in terms of the &quot;post-war pre-eminence&quot;  (some, including the author might instead say the &quot;arrogance&quot;) of  America, and the place of New York as the center of the world (I guess the  moniker &quot;Mediteranian&quot; had been already taken several centuries  prior).<br />Easy reading.  A great gift for those who have an interest in the  game which goes deeper than what can be found in tomorrow morning's box  scores.	2000-05-14
US	50955734	R2LFK567NYJG62	0140154035	21202647	The Eyes on the Prize Civil Rights Reader: Documents, Speeches, and Firsthand Accounts from the Black Freedom Struggle	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A valued companion to the study of the Civil Rights Movement	I think that this book is a valued companion to Taylor Branch's epic work  &quot;Parting the Waters&quot;. Together, they make an unbeatable pair of study aids for one of America's most turbulent periods.<br />While P.T.W. is a  more dispassionate third person chronicle, E.O.T.P. is more personally  driven.  It brings to life individuals like Bayard Rustin, Stokley  Carmichael, John Lewis and other giants (known and obscure) of the  movement.  Events from the Till lynching to the Attica riots as seen  through the eyes of those on the scene (sometimes, those making the  scene).<br />Fascinating reading.	2000-04-12
US	50955734	R1TTVLISX00JNU	0671687425	267532725	Parting the Waters : America in the King Years 1954-63	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The History of America in incomplete without this work.	I know of no other book which I believe is more essential to the understanding of twentieth century America. Taylor Branch's epic work covers the waterfront of the Movement - from the unjustly obscure like Rev. Vernon Johns to the now reknowned 1963 March on Washington.<br />No one can fully appreciate the sacrifice and the contribution of some of America's greatest souls without this work. Should be mandatory reading for every citizen.	2000-04-12
US	50955734	R9Q65R71PZC3B	1888698098	26929953	Judge and Jury: The Life and Times of Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A fascinating backdrop and a paradox for the subject..	Biographer Pietrusza has undertaken a significant task in this biography, and has done admirably.  He has fully explored much of what molded Judge Landis, and explores in major league fashion his checkered career as a  Federal Judge.  The history of baseball, of which Landis was obviously an  integral componet is well researched and covered. His interactions with the  other greats of the game, like Ruth, Cobb and Rickey give good insight into  his character and impact.<br />The work does have one glaring deficciency,  though.  I must disagree with a fellow writer, with regard to the book's  chronicle of Landis and the efforts to integrate the game.  I rather felt  that this (certainly the most significant of any shortcoming of his reign)  was given less than adequate coverage by the author.  Others have written  more authoritatively (including first hand reporting of confrontations over  the issue) about how intractable a foe Landis was of integration of the  American pasttime.  This book not only ignores almost all of these, but  glosses over the issue in general with little more than an apologist's  dismissal.  From my perspective, this is an unpardonable  transgression.<br />All in all, though, certainly a book worth reading by  anyone interested in either the history of the game, or an exploration of  who those with significant power may wield it.	2000-04-10
US	50955734	R5YHEAVU029A2	0399103422	638098276	The Godfather	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The greatest American novel of all time	Truly a work which cries out for more than five stars. The Godfather is without peer as a story of an American family.<br />Vito Andolini comes to America from the town of Corleone and supports his family in the only way  left open for him.  His sons alternately adore and emulate him; reject and  rebuke him, and cannot live up to his greatness. Inevitably, his world  becomes theirs.<br />It would be a particular treat to those who know the  story only as a movie.  Don't be misled:  the movie, as great as it is  pales in comparison to the book.  This is a book to read and re-read.  Each  time I have gone through it, I find more; additional layers and items to  contemplate.<br />It will make the most boring plane ride pass more quickly,  or make the most beautiful beach in the world more comfortable.  After  dozens of times, it is a most valued travel companion.	2000-02-23
US	50955734	R29KYQESGR92UV	0745141684	977328985	The Devil's Alternative	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best EVER of the genre	Forsyth at his best.  A great story with initially unrelated themes which become masterfully interwoven.  Characters (not caricatures) evenly drawn who inexorably collide in a manner which leaves the reader wishing for the  length commonly shown by others.  There are few thrillers of the past  decades which can stand up to this writing.<br />Not a book to pick up if you  wish to do anything else over the next six hours!	1999-10-16
US	50955734	R117DSAXEK6AOF	0865680973	862466576	The Essence of Aikido	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent introduction to philosophy and martial aspects.	Co-authored by an outstanding Aikido Sensei and one of his former students (an accomplished practitioner and instructor of several arts in his own right),  &quot;The Essence of Aikido&quot; is precisely that.  It contains  an exploration of the philosophy, without which the true understanding of  the art is (in my opinion) impossible.  It also illustrates several of the  basic techniques, including both empty hand techniques and more practical  Aiki-based defenses to attacks with weapons, kicks, and the like.<br />A must  for both those new to the art and the more experienced Aikidoka.	1999-06-09
US	50955734	RSQMAZ1C3SOT1	030680901X	677571441	The Heart Of Rock & Soul: The 1001 Greatest Singles Every Made	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	The best book on the subject of Rock I have rever read!	Dave Marsh makes the reader wish for an old hi-fi and an armful of &quot;45's.  The writing takes the reader back to sometimes wonderful, sometimes painful (sometimes wonderfully painful) memories that are all a  part of the music we listened to growing up.  The intensity comes as much  from remembering what was going on when a particular song was on the radio  as it does from the memory of the songs themselves.<br />Buy two, and send one  to a good friend from back in the day.  You will spend many happy hours  arguing about whether  &quot;You've Lost That Lovin Feelin&quot; evokes  more memories that &quot;Stay in My Corner&quot;; and why &quot;MacArthur's  Park&quot; made the list, but &quot;Hey Jude&quot; did not (or was that  vice versa?)	1999-06-07
