US	50955771	R2C5RC3767B6P8	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	A little thin	Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn return to the pages of Hillerman's Skeleton Man and it's a good thing they did, because without them, there wouldn't be much going for this novel. Even at two hundred and fifty pages (with type that puts it much closer to novella length - just over a hundred pages), there's barely enough story to fit. Joanna Clarke's rich father died in a plane crash well before her birth (out of wedlock) and took with his body a small fortune in diamonds into the Grand Canyon. Now, as an adult, Clarke wants to find his body - not for the diamonds - but for his arm bone! His bone has in it the DNA that will prove she is his heir, and thusly, award her with a large inheritance, currently under the control of evil lawyers. In response, the evil lawyers send a big blonde bad guy into Chee and Leaphorn's territory to stop her. Hillerman has a good setup here. It's a good idea, and the details about Chee's and Leaphorn's lives are nice, as they are good fun characters to read about. Unfortunately, the twists and turns a mystery novel require never show up. Instead, Skeleton Man gets very repetitive. That said, it's a fast but quiet read, almost soothing. When some puzzling loose ends are left untended, one doesn't really care. Leaphorn and Chee are getting older. Things are slowing down around the reservation. It seems mystery and suspense have taken second chair to home on the range.	2005-03-01
US	50955771	R3K78BOETE1G1T	0385512163	947920742	Men and Cartoons: Stories	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Heroic Introduction	This collection of short stories is one of those rare works whose contents actually do fall under the umbrella of the title. Usually, the title is simply the stand-out story of the collection (which would have delegated this book to \\"Super Goat Man\\") and doesn't actually indicate an overall theme. Men and cartoons are, however, very much the theme of the stories here, with a few arguable exceptions: the first being \\"Access Fantasy\\", in which only the central character's yearnings toward heroics links it to the comic book fantasies of the other stories. What we really have tying all these stories together is an overwhelming anger at the frivolities of youth. Lethem unconsciously recreates the narrator of Dostoyevsky's \\"Notes from Underground\\" as the sole primary character floating through these stories, albeit with name and history changes for each one. Two of the stories are virtually identical thematically; though lead the reader via different plotting devices. These plotting devices are good though, and spread amongst a collection of more dissimilar stories, could have given themselves more individuality; but as is, the overlying theme of self-destructive hero hating ties them to closely together to see the trees within the forest. <br /> <br />\\"The Vision\\" and \\"Super Goat Boy\\" both deal with a grown man faced with a `not' hero from his childhood. In \\"The Vision\\", a young boy pretends he is `the Vision' (from the Avengers), while in \\"Super Goat Man\\", a man-goat creature actually is a mediocre super hero: super goat man. Both stories narrators brush up against paltry existential philosophies as they retell their encounters with these pseudo heroes right up until they unconsciously lash out with malevolently barbed statements intended to bring the hero down a few notches. In both stories the opposite effect occurs, and the narrator is left in total isolation wondering at his own animosity. <br /> <br />\\"The Spray\\" and \\"Vivian Relf\\", both told from that same angry self-absorbed narrator, deal with relationship disconnects. In \\"The Spray\\", the fantasy element is a product that police use to determine what is missing in people's homes. The main character is burgled and the police show up with the spray to find out what was taken. When the police leave the spray behind, the disconnected couple sprays each other, revealing the ghostly images of relationships passed. In \\"Vivian Relf\\", a man and a woman meet and swear they've met before. They go through all the motions of banal party talk before giving up and deciding that indeed they have not met before. When this same type of chance encounter happens between the same two people over the course of many years, the narrator begins to create for himself a sense of loss, as if all along this Vivan Relf was the woman meant for him. Both stories intentionally stay well above the surface of these characters leaving them overwhelmingly alienated and isolated. <br /> <br />\\"The Glasses\\" stands out as the most unique of thsee stories, not because of its tricks (and these stories are packed with tricks: talking sheep, the aforementioned spray, a society forced to exist in a traffic jam) but because of its terrifically realized (through great dialogue) characters. In this one, a surly, reverse-discriminating black man returns to an optometry store where he feels he was taken advantage of because of his race. He purchased some new glasses which, the following day, were revealed to be scratched. The two optometrists in the store insist the glasses are fine, that the man is simply smudging them with his fingers. The entire story is the argument the three have about how this is happening. Three people literally stop everything, indefinitely, just to get to the bottom of this small mystery. <br /> <br />The other stories in the collection melt away. Some are good: \\"Access Fantasy\\" and \\"The Dystopianist\\", others are just bad: \\"Planet Big Zero\\"; but ultimately they are all punishingly alike. Lethem isgood with words though, and these stories slip by with little to no effort in the reading. Despite its flaws, \\"Men and Cartoons\\" has introduced me to an author I will continue to read. <br />	2005-02-06
US	50955771	R2ETG380LLNLNL	0380978415	380736465	Fluke: Or, I Know Why the Winged Whale Sings	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Whale of a Tale	If there is a group of writers specializing in silly titles, it is definitely lead by Christopher Moore. This is my first Moore book to read, and after perusing the jacket copy synopsis I felt more than a little skeptical. Could such silliness really be adhered together into an actual story with a beginning, middle, and end? The answer is yes. Moore takes the ridiculous and carefully inserts it into a world in which it is rightly challenged. Imagine having, say, a Popsicle, about sixty-five feet long, fall through the ceiling of your office (this scene is not in the book, it is of my own invention, so don't worry). If such a crazy thing were to really occur, you would be forced to examine it as, first, a real situation - not fantasy - and second, as something with a probably rational explanation. That's precisely what Nate, the hero whale biologist of 'Fluke' does when he encounters his first 'mystery': a whale with &quot;Bite Me&quot; written on its fluke. What follows is a lot funny, a lot weird, and a lot just good story.<BR> <BR>While things do tend to get too silly at times, and while the 'out there' element does get a little too high (pun intended), the character interactions are sound (again, pun intended) and their voices are individual and humorous. Most of the characters come across as people you know, or at least people you might like to know. Other reviewers tend to feel this is not Moore's best work, and without reading any of his other titles, I feel I can still agree. There is an amazing potential in this book, a command of the language and of humor that is rarely found together. I recommend 'Fluke' to anyone in the mood for something fun, and will likely be able to recommend some of his other titles more emphatically in the future.	2004-03-22
US	50955771	R3REPKPP2K0B5U	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	2	21	49	N	N	Beyond Proselytizing	Countless historians, theologians, English professors, and critics over the years have agreed that in any form of story - be it fiction or non-fiction - there are certain recognizable moments that make the best of them similar. The hero, for example; all stories have a hero. And some sort of villain: often more difficult to pin-point, the villain can be an opponent, an organization, or an idea... anything really. Most good stories set up this hero/villain opposition in a dramatic way that increase the tension over time, and maximize the payoff of victory (or failure) by the end. In fiction, this is easier to do, as the story itself is within the author's control. In non-fiction, one must remain true to the source material. If the story is long and drawn out in reality, it will be difficult to make it seem not long and drawn out in a book. This appears to be the case with Mountains Beyond Mountains, though matters aren't helped by Tracy Kidder's flat boring prose or his apparent inability to focus on those things that are interesting to readers for the sake of those things that are a part of his and subject Paul Farmer's overwhelmingly biased agenda.<br />The hero: Paul Farmer, the villain: TB, the setting: Haiti and other, the message: if you haven't given all your money away, you're bad. Paul Farmer doctor extraordinaire is the subject of what can't truly be called a biography, as he is never truly revealed to the reader. The facts include his education at Harvard and his work in Haiti, Russia, Cuba (and other) to combat TB. Parts of this story are fascinating. The economic climate of Haiti is stunning to anyone who may not previously know how dire its situation is and has been. The struggles people have gone through to contain something like TB (which most think is pretty 'tame' here in the states) are monumental. Tame in the U.S. isn't necessarily tame in a country with 70 percent unemployment and zero medical care. The development and discovery of MDR TB (Multi-Drug-Resistant TB) and its following treatment is of global interest and importance, but here its just another subplot. Farmer is never human, the author's voice is to over-bearing, the story never fixed upon. A potentially interesting narrative packed with not enough good hard facts sinks in the telling. When compared with other works of non-fiction, the information isn't revelatory enough and the story isn't engaging enough for it to be recommended.	2003-11-28
US	50955771	R3H1EJ59MJXQQ5	038097827X	256102865	The Wolves in the Walls	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Modern Mythmaking	Neil Gaiman's success story has a new chapter added to it every couple of months, and 'The Wolves in the Walls' is definitely worthy of its own chapter. In it, Gaiman takes that narrative camp-fire-style story-telling and one ups it by telling a story that seems dug out of all our own subconsciousnessess. It feels like a lost fairy tale, like something old; this is Gaiman's talent. He tells stories that feel like they've been around forever, as if he's only the medium of the tale and not the creator. But 'The Wolves in the Walls' is new. It's got 2003 stamped on the inside cover. And though passages like \\"If the wolves come out of the walls, then its all over\\" seem like old aphorisms handed down by your grandmother, they're not.<br />The story is simple on the surface (as any good children's story should be), funny, and downright creepy. Though the wolves wear socks and watch TV once they come out of the walls, young impressionable children might still get the spooks once the lights go off. Lucy, our reluctant hero, is the only one in the family that believes there are wolves in the walls. Everyone else says they're just rats or bats or mice. But she's convinced. And when the wolves do come out, well, it's all over.<br />Dave McKean has worked with Gaiman many times before and plays an integral role in the mythmaking presented here. His art includes real-objects layered into all types of different art styles: from brightly colored paints to hard black penciling on white. Subtleties in each panel add immeasurable depth to Gaiman's story as well as fodder for an adult or young'uns imagination to barrel through. If there is anything negative to be extended to the book, it's regarding the length... but while it's sad as an adult to be able to read through a book so quickly, it's wonderful to be able to read it again and again, especially out loud, with a captive audience, in a creaky old house.	2003-10-11
US	50955771	R3D3VGYCEQTIRB	0679752579	298572387	Leap	Books	2	18	24	N	N	Mormons, painters, and Hell: Oh MY!	Terry Tempest Williams is first and foremost a naturalist. I say this not out of some secret biological knowledge of her, but simply as an extrapolation from her own writings. In her book REFUGE, she focuses on birds and the wild life preserve around the Great Salt Lake. The personal life bleeds out of the story of the natural in a way as to make the two seamless... and they are. In LEAP, Williams focuses her attention on the great triptych by Heronymous Bosch (El Bosco) - 'The Garden of Delights'. The triptych represents the three states of human (animal) existence as dictated by early Christian doctrine: Eden, Earth, and Hell. In each, human forms are involved - with an assortment of nearly unrecognizable creatures - in all manner of lewd, sensate, or holy activities. The painting perhaps is - for a naturalist like Williams - an unignorable bridge to a sort of philosophical incantation of one's own personal life.<br />Though the book is told in four distinct parts, there is little cohesion. Each of the first holds some resemblance to the corresponding frame of the triptych it is supposed to represent, but not effectively enough to be truly meaningful. Essentially, I detected three distinct modes of writing scattered unpredictably throughout the book: an anecdotal style dedicated to Bosch and 'el Prado' (the museum in which it is housed) related activities, confessionals of the author's past and experiences, and an unexpurgated glut of rambling free-style writing that I guess is supposed to be philosophical or poetic, but is just sophomoric. It isn't difficult to find TTW's strengths. When speaking of nature - real nature, not the nature of the painting - her talents soar. Sadly, these moments are few and far between. The anecdotes of both TTW's life and others around her are fun, but not really enough to warrant more than a quick aside. The bulk of the book is in fact made up of those aforementioned stream-of-consciousness writing exercises that read like a teenagers angst-ridden journal more than the thoughtful prose of a serious adult writer. While Williams' attempts here are magnificent... she gets an A+ on concept (and what a truly excellent concept) the book fails in her lack of confidence. There is a clear insecurity here. TTW is best when at her calmest, but she wants to beef it all up, to be a serious writer, a stirring writer, a philosophical and educated writer; she so desperately wants everyone to be wowed by what she is saying that the result is a bunch of nonsense that doesn't amount to anything. With all said and done, there is no revelation about the painting, no revelation about Mrs. Williams and her relationships: to her father, her husband, and her religion (Mormon), and no real revelation about what we are supposed to think about all this writing. It all ads up to a boring bit of artistic voyeurism.	2003-10-03
US	50955771	R1BOH5LSGMTSYY	1932023003	292002446	Krypton Nights: Poems (Paris Review Prize in Poetry)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Battling Perspectives	How serious a subject matter is Superman? Serious enough for poetry to be based on him. Added to the media-crossing character's resume is now the noblest of the arts: verse - some blank and some not-so-blank. Mind you, this collection is no comic book - not that comic books don't offer fine entertainment and fine subtext in their own right - 'Kryton Nights' was the winner of the 2001 Paris Review Prize for Poetry; an organization not resigned to handing out awards to just anyone. Unfortunately, there are not so many deserving recipients in the poetry field these days; and those that do deserve are often buried amongst the countless worthless others. Only by sheer luck and my love for Superman did I stumble across this one. But alas, I have given away my first bias.<br />Superman is the subject of this book, which is broken up into four parts: an autobiographical set of sonnets by Clark Kent, an series of tapes recorded by Jor-El for his son Kal-El, the poetic diary of Lois Lane, and a seething rant of Lex Luthor as penciled from Arkham Asylum. For any lover of Superman, this slim volume is irresistibly fun, just for the intelligent treatment given so many fabulously fantastical characters. For any lover of poetry (or just good writing) it offers its own set of treats. From hilarious 'what if' scenarios as told by Lois in \\"His Maculate Erection\\" to the sobering final lines of \\"The Fourth Man in the Fire\\": \\"Being the neighborhood / god, all guts and gusto, well, it's numbing. / / But here, just another byline for a vast news magnate, / I can stumble, fumble, fail. I can always quit the 'Planet'\\"<br />As a sort of modern mythic god figure, Superman, in this text serves as a gateway to our older gods and religions; their cacophonies and inconsistencies go head to head in many of these poems. Dietrich weaves many subjects in and out of this comic world, as to blend them almost completely. The confusion of a spouse, the love of a father, the hatred and misdirected rage ofa competitor, and the so-human exhaustion of a hero intermingled with countless references and sprinkled with often hilarious, often terrifying puns... it all makes for a fabulous read. Frequently blasphemous and always thought provoking, 'Krypton Nights' is the kind of book Superman deserved to have written about him, it definitively elevates his fictional status to one of a much greater (and as of yet unexplored) importance.	2003-09-21
US	50955771	REZ7VURM8GO3S	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Show me the body	Don Delillo follows up his largest and finest work - 'Underworld' - with perhaps his smallest and poorest work: 'The Body Artist'. While the dust-jacket calls this piece of fiction a novel, it is clearly a novella. At only 124 pages, and with only one focal character, there isn't enough intermingled complexity to make it a novel, and not enough 1-2-3 punch to make it a long short story. Delillo's tone is consistent with his other works: the characters all sound the same and seem to pine for some sort of normalcy. The quest at understanding the postmodern is dwindling away, along with the cold-war and garbage, as some of Delillo's obsessions. What we have here is a sort of super-existentialism. <br />Lauren Hartke is a body artist - she puts her body into strange shapes and under constant pressure - and she is haunted. Her obsession with her own body serves as a clue to her complete lack of comprehension of all those outside of her body. Her husband, her friends, her acquaintances - they are all strangers. 'The Body Artist' is about these ghosts: mostly regular people, but still intangible to Lauren. Delillo is still a master on his worst day, and moments of this book do shine. Only Delillo could conjure up so pure a ghost story without using a shred of the supernatural. Hartke's obsessions creep up just slowly enough to almost be unnoticeable to us. By the end, we readers are able to snap out of the scenario and realize its craziness. But for Lauren - trapped in her own world and body - this realization is not as plausible. <br />Dellilo's faults her are not with subject. His intent is as noble as ever. The words themselves just don't work as well. Perhaps after 'Underworld's' massiveness, he felt an urgency to 'crank something out' - and here it is: a little under-developed novella. Despite its flaws, it is still a necessary chapter in Don Dellilo's oeuvre.	2003-09-19
US	50955771	R17IAEN2Q00M26	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Good Game	Ever since Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings was published, the epic high fantasy trilogy has been virtually unbeatable as far as sales within the inappropriately combined Fantasy and Science Fiction genre. Nearly fifty years after Tolkien, the fantasy trilogy has grown into a loutish beast, producing massive never-ending fantastical soap operas that mix sex, magic, and monsters, with a dollop of that special ingredient that makes them unavoidable to adolescent boys and adults willing to relive there youth at the sacrifice of good solid writing. Now, with the \\"Rings\\" as blockbuster movies, and J.K. Rowling as the richest women in Britain, we get a sense that these - never quite 'out' - compendiums are coming back. George R. R. Martin begins his projected six book 'A Song of Ice and Fire' series with the eight hundred page A Game of Thrones. And while this outing doesn't have all the sub-textual brilliance of Tolkien, and does have all those little teenager asides, it stands amongst its peers as a giant. Always captivating, and always verging on breathtaking suspense, 'Game' is more a massive family drama than anything else.<br />The Starks of Winterfell guard the lands to the North. And up in the North, strange things are sneaking down. Meanwhile, the King and his despicable wife are having troubles. Thus the table is set for a feud over rule - a game of thrones - that encompasses several generations of seven massive families and hundreds of extra characters. The only thing more magnificent than the scope is the deft way in which Martin is able to make sense of it all. Each chapter is told from the point of view of a particular character; a device that works excellently  in describing multiple points of view as well as in doling out suspense. One chapter may end in a sort of mini-cliffhanger that isn't then resolved until that character's next chapter comes up in the batting lineup. The writing is superb with the only exception being a somewhat late-night sex romp description of everything 'between the sheets' and the often cacophonous anachronisms used to give the characters a period feel. However, once involved in the story, with all those psuedo lit books that are storming the market fresh out of one's mind, there is no doubt that one will enjoy this book, and want to continue with the others.cription of everything 'between the sheets' and the often cacophonous anachronisms used to give the characters a period feel. However, once involved in the story, with all those psuedo lit books that are storming the market fresh out of one's mind, there is no doubt that one will enjoy this book, and want to continue with the others.	2003-09-12
US	50955771	R3H26RMO3HXDU7	0393049973	227511628	Heroin: And Other Poems	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Coming Back Around	Heroin is Charlie Smith's fifth book of poetry and it falls somewhere in the middle in terms of quality. There is a maturity here not present in earlier works, but the forced quality of the previous Before and After shows itself every now and then. Fortunately for us, the majority of Heroin is not glaringly autobiographical. Unfortunately, the narrative style of Smith's poetry seems to be slipping away. Standouts in this volume include &quot;Beds&quot;, &quot;Flowers of Manhattan&quot;, and &quot;As for Trees&quot;. Respectively, these poems list all the different types of beds, flowers, and trees. But there is a music to them and a poignancy that pulls us out of that everyday fog we live in and makes us think of these things we wander by everyday. There is a sense of the disregarded here and an opening of that door. Several of the other more narrative poems work, but not in the same lyrical way as the non. Perhaps Mr. Smith has discovered his true forte is the novel. While the narrative poem might now feel forced, the poetic novel stands high overhead the sub-literary glop of the grocery store novel. And in today's market of glop disguised as lit, it is refreshing to know that someone out there is at least trying. Heroin falls way short of genius, but offers up enough promise to keep one hoping.	2003-07-11
US	50955771	RILUOV5AXHMKQ	0553288105	229605670	The Gods Themselves	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gods Indeed	To any reader of science fiction, Isaac Asimov is an old familiar. Not only did he create the three laws of robotics and 'Foundation', his name also presides over countless anthologies, awards, and one long running magazine. Unlike many of his contemporaries, people continue to read Asimov. The ideas are still engaging, the characters still 'typed-up' well enough to resemble people we might know - or be interested in knowing, and the writing still crisp and relatively free of all the dating that's so heavily sprinkled in other works from the sixties and seventies. In 'The Gods Themselves', Asimov deals not only with a people more like us, but a people much closer to us in time. This novel does not take place in a galaxy far far away (at least two thirds of it don't), but in one very close to now. Secondly, Asimov deals with chemistry (sprinkled heavily with some quantum mechanics), which was the field he pursued as a scientist - despite being one of the fathers of robotics. <br />The story plays out in three almost completely distinct parts. A common practice with Asimov. Many of his novels, including the first two 'Foundation' books actually consisted of several novellas stringed together. These parts consist of characters - talking heads really - struggling for or against the new technology Asimov has created to serve as the plot device: the electron pump. However negative such a simple description may sound, the application of it to paper is beautiful. The electron pump itself is such an engaging scientific concept, it draws the characters toward inexorable toward it. Much of the talking-head criticism stems from the necessity for the characters, in dialogue, to explain certain scientific principles in order to elucidate for the reader just what the heck they're talking about. Part Two (and the titular part): &quot;...The Gods Themselves...&quot; might perhaps be the most brilliant alien creating I've ever read. The aliens not only have more character and personality than most of Asimov's human creations (maybe Asimov was alien?), but they somehow come across as completely alien and completely recognizable. It's a remarkable feat, and is almost disappointing that it doesn't end the book. Alas, part three is a necessity.<br />Anyone who loves Asimov and likes real 'science' fiction - not space opera or fantasy - could do a lot worse than this one. In fact, they'd be hard pressed to do better.	2003-06-10
US	50955771	R152AIP8ZTI62X	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Two Books in One	In The Devil and the White City, Erik Larsen takes two polar opposite stories and smushes them together into what could have been one fantastic book: 'The White City' and one crummy book: \\"The Devil\\". The White City is the 'nom du drama' of the World's Fair of 1893 in Chicago. The story involves some of the greatest architects and engineers of the time pitted in a literal war against time, weather, and money, in their efforts to make one of the most amazing spectacles of the day. Larsen has a slue of facts at his disposal and doles them out masterfully. What might be mundane asides in a dusty library almanac become astounding bits of suspenseful trivia. His setup of the tale and the characters involved makes for not only an educational and fascinating read, but a quick and entertaining one as well. What invention, and monument, was to rival the great Eiffel Tower? How could a marvel on the scale of a mini-city, complete with electrically lit chandeliers seventy-two feet across, be built in a time when, not six or seven hundred miles away, the wild-wild west was raging. The story is a staggering one, and it is told in a way that serves it well, with a staggering sense of the dramatic. On the other hand, there's the devil.<br />The 'Devil' of the title is the non-nefarious Dr. H. H. Holmes. A black-widower sort of killer that lured his victims into his mausoleum of a hotel and converted them into profitable cadavers for the underground (pun intended) market. Presumably, there was little concrete information for Larsen to select from, as most of this section is burdened with heavily melodramatic (bordering on painful to read) editorializing: some of the worst I've ever read. The story of Holmes reads more like a list of bodies than anything else. All the 'good-yarn' aspects of it is lost in the retelling, and pales in comparison to Jack the Ripper, a concurrent killer. The link to the White City is there, but narratively dubious. Holmes built his hotel to capitalize onthe World's Fair's dramatic supposed increase in tourism. That's it. Not much of a link really.<br />Despite its failings, however, The Devil in the White City is as much a page-turner as is possible with non-fiction. For the amount of investment required to read this nearly four hundred pages book, the payoff is well worth it. Just be ready to sigh at how often the cool blue eyes of a cold blooded killer are described, and hope that the next chapter takes you back to the countless men and women involved in the making of a masterpiece.	2003-06-02
US	50955771	R2STOW52M0P678	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Casual Conversation	King is so amazingly and easily readable, that even some of these not-great stories entertain. They read like casual conversation, and offer up nothing in the form of regret. As a result, the overlong \\"Riding the Bullet\\" and \\"The Death of Jack Hamilton\\" don't irritate as much as they simply fade. Many of King's themes pop up here, the best and most easily recognized being the title story. \\"Everything's Eventual\\" features a young man with special powers that is enlisted by a Shop-type agency to do possibly dirty deeds. But, as the boy is young and not particularly bright, he follows along, feeling important for the first time. The undertone of loneliness and neediness in this story is what really sticks with you. Perhaps King (with his own special powers) is most able to identify with this recurring character trope.<BR> <BR>\\"Lunch at the Gotham Cafe\\" and \\"1408\\" are great shockers. \\"1408\\" really does creep, and adds some new scary material to perhaps the oldest horror subgenre: the haunted house. \\"Lunch at the Gotham Cafe\\" takes a disintigrating marriage, and quite literally puts it to the grindstone. This one stands out as a story not just about what it seems to be about. It is as multilayered as any piece of fine literature.<br />\\"The Little Sisters of Elluria\\" takes place in the Darktower world, and is a fun aside for Darktower fans. Not only that, its an effective story in itself, though one with an episodic feel due to the lack of Roland's character arc. In fact, he is just passing through.<br />The remaining stories don't stand out for me. \\"The Road Virus Heads North\\" was silly, and has been done before, by King and others. \\"Autopsy Room Four\\" was well told, but again, its almost cliche now. I believe Poe got the closest to perfecting that one.<br />A handful of non-horror non-supernatural stories stand out as worthy attempts, but fail to hit the mark. \\"L.T.'s Theory of Pets\\" gets very close, but nothing near to some of the remarkable work done in \\"Hearts in Atlantis\\".<br />Despite the three star rating above, King is still one of the best, and his short stories often rank among his finest works. One could do a lot worse than reading this one.	2003-04-09
US	50955771	R31XNJLNDBZG5F	0140009930	823106538	The Day of the Triffids (Popular Penguins)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A World Gone Green	This could very well be the most engaging story with the most ridiculous premise that I have ever read. The tagline might read: Everyone goes blind in a world ravaged by man eating plants! It sounds like a sixties B horror film... oh yeah, it was made into a sixties B horror film. Somehow, John Wyndham pulls it off. Bill Masen serves as our eyes in this blind world, and tells the tale of his life with total believability. The meteor shower event that causes the blindness and the appearance of the carnivous triffid plants are both explained in such a way as to be convincing. Of course, as is often the case with end of the world stories, the actual end of the world serves only as a setting for how the remaining characters will now interact. How will they live? What will they use for food? Will they develope into a new type of society? Wyndam's end of the world tool works better than most. Having helpless masses of blind people around raises some pretty serious ethical questions that can be related to many real problems in the here and now. And the triffids, they make the task of reinvinting the world just a little bit harder.<br />In &quot;The Day of the Triffids&quot;, characters grow and express better than in most science fiction novels. Family, love, fidelity, loyalty, and forgiveness are all deftly handled here, and not preachily. The triffids are ever present in the backdrop to the other grander themes.<br />Wyndham, I believe, is going through somewhat of a resurgence, as &quot;The Midwhich Cuckoo's&quot; and &quot;The Day of the Triffids&quot; will both soon be availble in new less pulpy formats. In their new guise, perhaps they will attract some new readers.<br />My only criticism concerns that trick that writers use to set up an unbelievable event. We see it all the time in the movies: before the truck explodes, they show us a gas leak. That way, when the truck does explode, we not only know why, but we see it as something that was likely to happen. Wyndam uses this tactic to excess, right down to a conversation Bill has with a coworker about how the triffids sure would be deadly to a blind person. &quot;We can see and they can't. Take away that, and the superiority is gone.&quot; That's a somewhat unneccesary foundation, and not the only one of its kind. But in a novel with this monstrosity of a bizarre setting, it is a forgivable mistake to make.	2003-04-09
US	50955771	RBX27FIGQVOCE	0525946578	371356509	The Virgin's Knot	Books	1	18	33	N	N	The Virgin Novel	Plot: a young Turkish women stricken with polio wields the great gift of weaving beautiful rugs, that some feel, grant miracles to their owners. Unhappy herself, the woman finds potential happiness in a traveling anthropologist. Sound interesting? It is. At least that part is. The problem is Holly Payne. Never have I read such a terrible book with this much potential. Holly Payne has overwritten 'The Virgin's Knot' as to make it painful to read. At times, I struggled to finish. But maybe I'm being too hard. If you're the kind of reader that feels that adding the word 'incredulous' to a sentence makes it better, then you'll love this book! 'Incredulous' is used incredulously! Midway through, I begged for no more appearances of the word, but like the inevitability of the sun's rising, there it appeared every couple of pages. And the sun, I have a bone to pick with it too. In this novel, everything glistens 'in the light', or moves 'in the light', or walks 'in the light'. If you're in Holly Payne's world, you're not just tan, you're tan 'in the light'. But that's not entirely true. Sometimes your tan 'in the hard light' or 'sharp light' or 'moonlight' (for those night tannings). This dark story is told with light just about everywhere. Oh yeah... also, no one can hear for some reason. All of the characters respond to every initial bit of dialogue with the perceptive response of, &quot;what?&quot; A good chunk of the book consists of dialogue being repeated for these hard of hearing what-sayers. Perhaps all the 'what-ing' is supposed to infuse the dialogue with a sense of shock or amazement (in the light), while in fact, its just silly. <br />All that said, if you read incredibly fast... so fast that you don't pay attention to any of the words... and don't mind an unfinished story with a terrible ending... then this is the book for you.	2003-03-25
US	50955771	R3QMHPAK4BCI26	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Soap Opinions	Though the President of the South American country Anne Patchett's \\"Bel Canto\\" is set in never makes an actual appearance, his shadow is cast heavilly across the surface of the novel. His disdain for the Vice President (a very likeable character) and the obvious neglect of his own duties (he is not present at the birthday galla invaded by terrorists for which he was intended to be the primary hostage) instigate indirectly the plot of the novel. Instead of being abducted himself, the President is at home watching his favorite soap opera. In fact, this same soap opera serves as a kind of character in itself. The children terrorists watch it, everybody knows about it, so they all must have something in common, all these South Americans. All these people in fact. What's left for the terrorist to deal with in the President's absence is a long slow battle with obstinate negotiators, and a mish-mash of differently cultured hostages playing along at life on a small scale. The results could have been amazing. In fact, many might find it amazing as it is. For me, however, the soap opera pall becomes all powerful. The characters behave melodramatically (no pun intended), and dialogue is romantacized and contrived. Patchett surely intended language to be a sub-subject, as the primary character is the translator Gen: the only one able to communicate freely with everyone, but unable really to express himself. \\"Bel Canto\\" falls into a similar trap. It reads like a soap opera with something serious behind the scenes. But isn't there always something serious behind the scenes? The realistic counterpoint at the end is abrupt and intended to be painful, but it isn't. None of the characters were ever real. Like soap stars dying of brain cancer... inevitably, they come back to life.	2003-03-11
US	50955771	R1TG1DJWWNBKZ5	0061020648	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Only a minor complaint	(...). My expectations were very high, as everyone seems to love Pratchett (and particularly this book.) GUARDS!! GUARDS!! introduces Sam Vimes and the nightwatch. One might call them bumbling or pathetic, but they're not. They're impotent; manacled by the very bizarre circumstances of their own existances. And there lies the undertone of seriousness. Cynical and sarcastic: at one point, Carrot (yes, that's his name) arrests all the members of the thieves guild. His fellow watchman are embarrased and apologize to everyone and explain to Carrot that you just can't run around arresting thieves like that. There are rules!<br />Knowing this, it isn't so hard to believe that later, a dragon becomes king.<br />Is this funny? Yes, very. Is it serious? Yes, very.<br />An entertaining read. I imagine that soon I will plow through all of them and be writing a review like some of the others here, where I talk about all the other books and how they compare. For now though, just know that this is a good place to start... it worked for me (though I 'started' with The Truth). I dropped that single star up there only because two thirds of the way through, the pace slowed for no noticable reason. A sort of repetition breifly reared its ugly head. But only breifly. Its a minor complaint	2003-03-05
US	50955771	R33R2RJ0YDRHEW	0380975173	882973554	Shrine of Stars: The Third Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Rushed but Beautiful Conclusion	First, one must clarify and emphasis the total and complete dependence &quot;Shrine of Stars&quot; has to the preceding volumes of Confluence. For those of you that are considering reading this book, it will not make sense unless you read &quot;Child of the River&quot; and &quot;Ancients of Days&quot; first. In fact, I see little reason (except for girth) that these weren't published as a single volume with a few of the 'remember from the last volume' details edited out.<br />On to the books. One reviewer commented that too much is jammed into this third volume, and I agree. What one ends up with is almost a series of intensely imaginative summaries. The locales change so frequently, as do the flora and fauna. Each environment is so different than the last, and eachis packed with enough loving details to support a novel of its own. The magic McAuley is able to display works its best in &quot;Child of the River&quot;. There, the pacing is right for the language of description and the wonders of Confluence. In &quot;Ancients of Days&quot;, one gets the sense that McAuley is rushing to the end... too excited and unable to withhold his 'big idea ending'. And as for that, the ending isn't really a big idea. It's an old, well-trodden idea. Upon the book's completion, I felt similar to many of the other reviewers: cheated by what felt masterfully tacked on; underwhelmed by what should have been explosively overwhelming. But upon reflection, I see the wisdom of it. The ending serves its on perfect purpose. It wraps the work and the place of Confluence up into an egg-like shell, giving birth to imagination and a galaxy ready for life.<br />If there is such a thing as a premature opus, this is it. The moments of Confluence that are so terrible are only so because the rest is so good. No reader of imaginative and thought provoking fiction should go without reading this trilogy at least once. If anything, just for the beautiful writing that is so rare in the genre.	2003-02-04
US	50955771	R3DOT7D6O3U1HL	0613339916	10912282	Actual Air (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Potato Chip Poetry?	Is it negative to call David Berman's work &quot;Actual Air&quot; an immensely entertaining work? Would he, would any poet, prefer his or her work to be called important or profound? Should a reader sit and read each stanza aloud, let it reverberate, and allow its meaning to fall from the air like mist? Or should one tear through all forty poems with reckless abandon, like I did with &quot;Actual Air&quot;.<br />Berman does have a healthy dollop of poetic pretensions, but it seems most modern poets can not avoid this problem. Perhaps it is due to the overwhelming self-centeredness the art form has grown into. Moments do shine, where, almost in a winking with the reader, Berman speaks plainly. In these moments the profundity emanates from the simplicity. <br />Right away, in the second poem, 'Classic Water':<br />     and I remember how I would always refer to her boyfriends<BR>     as what's-his-face, which was wrong of me and I'd like<BR>     to apologize to those guys right now, wherever they are:<br />     No one deserves to be called what's-his-face.<br />Simple and severe, humorous and sad. This mish-mash of emotional content written as humorous anecdotal lines is plentiful throughout the book.<br />From 'Self Portrait at 28':<br />     We will travel to Mars<BR>     even as folks on Earth<BR>     are still ripping open potato chip<BR>     bags with their teeth.<br />The above mixes the complex with the simple, the future and the past become one.<br />In 'CORAL GABLES':<br />     &quot;I refuse to be the middleman in a relationship<BR>     between you and the florist.&quot;<br />A fittingly hilarious and sad remark. This book is recommended.	2003-02-04
US	50955771	R177WFZE4VVVVN	0312146957	873574527	The Old Forest and Other Stories	Books	3	7	14	N	N	What trees?	There are amongst the hundreds of styles of short story, those that hug the side of pure narrative and those that offer a snippit of the complexities of human life. Of the latter, there is none greater than Anton Chekov, but modern masters also abound... Tobias Wolfe comes to mind. In my reading of Peter Taylor's \\"The Old Forest and Other Stories\\", I couldn't help but feel that his audience has passed. I enjoyed many of the stories, some quite alot, but they did not speak to me. They did not resonate. Personal favorites like 'Promise of Rain','The Scoutmaster', and 'The Gift of the Prodigal' contain more of an element of a narrative style, sprinkled with those ominous gaps that lie behind a person's mind. The titular story is perhaps my favorite except for its being bogged down with expository literacy. I have a distinct feeling that I have read a book that added to my knowledge of writing and reading as a whole, but I have not read a book in which I have thoroughly enjoyed.<br />With full acknowledgments for the differences in taste, I must express a total dislike of many of the other stories: the final play, 'The Death of a Kinsman' in particular. The underhandedness disguised as cleverness on the writer's part is obfuscating and patronizing. In fact, I think patronizing is a good word to sum up the collection. However, good writing intentionally raises opinions. If you've come so far as to read the reviews on this page, it might just be worth investigating these stories yourself.	2003-01-28
US	50955771	R30MKYM7FT7EX0	0380975165	989597595	Ancients of Days: The Second Book of Confluence	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Doldrums on the Waters	The story of Confluence flows like the great river..., unmitigated..., through three volumes. <br />Like any larger story, it suffers from a slowing in the middle. The Act II doldrums, I have heard them called. In 'Child of the River', Yama and the world of Confluence are fresh and bright. In 'Ancients of Days', Yama and the world of Confluence are weather-worn and trodden. The path has been set, and now it must be followed.<br />The beauty of Paul McAuley's writing still seeps from the pages in a way that forces you to yearn for the hardcover copy. Like the 'Puranas' - the Confluence version of the Bible, though greater and more aged - there is a kind of wonderment in just the words. But unlike 'Child of the River', there is a meticulous pondering in Book Two: a foraging for story. It is there, embedded within its philosopy on religion, thought, and science - in that order - that the simplicities of religion are easily expunged, the encouragement of questioning easily inititiated, but the psuedo(?)-constants of scientific fact more difficulty tackled; as being 'constants', they have arisen before... Is it possible to have a new idea?<br />McAueley entertains, undoubtedly, and forces thought simultaneously. This alone makes for an engaging read. But amongst the beautiful imaginings and descriptions, the talents are hightened a great deal. <br />So what are the faults? A little expectation of the unexpected not met. A little too much of the far-fetched 'omega-point-theory' mixed in with an otherwise previously unimagined outcome of universal life. And a little too little wind along the Great River.<br />That said, one must not judge the parts as a whole.<br />On to 'Shrine of Stars'	2002-12-13
US	50955771	R3IUC5DXPZWWAV	067104155X	299352184	Legacy of Blood (Diablo, No. 1)	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Mindless! Entertainment?	I've always been a big proponent of the 'beach read'. One simply can not read Tolstoy and Melville all the time. For every mindbender, one must consume a little fluff. So, there's a fluff scale and a mindbender scale. In many ways, a five star fluff book is as good as a five star mindbender. But a two star fluff book? Not good.<br />First of all, this book has little but setting in common with the Diablo games published by Blizzard. Legacy of Blood is a forty page fantasy cookie cutter stamped out into a Diablo liscense with an extra three hundred pages of filler. And when I say filler, I mean filler. Instead of using a pronoun like 'she', Knaak might say, 'the raven tressed sorceress'. When this comes out three or four times a page, one begins to wonder just what consists of the bulk of the novel... story or redundant description?<br />Nevertheless, Knaak's prose flows. What little of a story and characters there exist are all decently portrayed. Yet, an overwhelming blah-ness fills every moment, and the utter simplicity of the book is insulting even to the most mtv'ed pre-teen out there.<br />While one shouldn't look for greatness in a novel spun off a video game, one can hope for a little mindless entertainment. Legacy of Blood does not come close to either.	2002-12-11
US	50955771	RD0992PNGAOD9	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Simple Pleasures	In Nabokov's 'On a Book Entitled Lolita', written a year after the novel's publication, he says at one point, &quot;I am neither a reader nor a writer of didactic fiction... a work of fiction exists only in so far as it affords me what I shall bluntly call aesthetic bliss... connected with other states of being where art is the norm.&quot; In truth, this overwhelmingly arrogant statement is entirely true, and depending on which side of the 'artwork' you are standing, it is the novel's downfall or salvation.<br />It is impossible to deny Nabokov's intelligence; like the anti-hero of Lolita, he is constantly showing it off: with wordplay, literary and philosophical references galore, and trilingualisms. His prose is stabbingly funny and sick. Humbert Humbert is viciously portrayed by himself, and Lolita is diabolical in her treatment of him. However, Nabokov's obsession with American versimilitude bogs down nearly the entirety of part two. The 'travel book' he and Lolita carry with them is referred to often as their guide, and is virtually regurgitated for the reader. Sadly, despite his mastery of the English language, there is a distinctly alien feel to all the characters. The locales are distinctly American, but the people are not, at least until the confrontation with Clare Quilty at the end. And a brilliant confrontation it is, almost redeeming the crumbling American facade of part two.<br />As some have suggested, the annotated version might offer more insight, and therefore, more enjoyment out of the book; but there is something irritating about this recommendation. As Nabokov implies in his afterword, the audience for this novel is himself. In the annotated version, readers become privy to all his societal jabs and obscure references, his bilingual puns, but why should we care? Well, I believe we should care only because we identify with old Humbert Humbert, or because we sympathize with his oh so destructive love impediment... and I do... but I think I'll passon the annotations and just be satisfied with whatever simple enjoyments my humble education provides me.	2002-10-14
US	50955771	R1FGE7OLKGSU99	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A moment of silence please.	This is, quite simply, one of the finest books I have ever read. It does its job in informing dutifully, though perhaps with an acceptable amount of undisguised bias. It entertains, as it reads as quickly, easily, and as painlessly as a well written novel... which, quite frankly, feels like a criticism here, &quot;John Adams&quot; stands well above the standards of a novel. It also inspires; greatness is something our world lacks today, and among our founding fathers, John Adams exemplified greatness in humanity while maintaining all the falibilites of real-life. Inspiration to write: as John Adams and Abigal both wrote extensively, in letters and journals. Inspiration to activity: both practiced and preached a physically active life of walking and working in the fields, and both lived exceptionally long lives for the times. Inspiration to personal dignity, honesty, and hard work; both spoke what they meant and stood by what they felt, even in unpopular waters. Inspiration in love and companionship; John and Abigal were underneath everything, the very best of friends, and intensely supportive companions to each other. <br />David McCullough's account of this life will fill you with a wonder of the time, and a wonder for the power of excellent writing. I feel as though my life has improved from having read this book, and wish it had been written ten years ago. I am the proud owner of an autographed copy which will rest in a position of honor in my library for the rest of my life.<br />Having said all that, I'll admit to being a little embarrassed giving such a fine review, but the fault of such doting remains ultimately in the exceptional quality of the book.<br />A moment of silence please, for those readers afraid to read non-fiction, or even outside a particular genre, they deserve our sympathies.	2002-09-25
US	50955771	R3LRR5L4USF4YH	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The X-Crement Files	Typically, my time spent on a Stephen King novel goes something like this:<BR>Day 1: one hundred pages (man, is that the time, I should've known better than to start a King book so late.)<BR>Day 2: three hundred pages.<BR>Day 2 and a half: well past bedtime, finish the book.<br />With Dreamcatcher, day one was the exact same, but at the end of day two, I was okay to move on into day three and then day four. It felt a little like going on an easter egg hunt, but having all those little plastic eggs filled with nothing but emptiness. Not to say that the book is bad, it just drags. The car chase at the end is nearly 150 pages long. There is a sense that King thinks he is kicking the action up a notch every fifty pages or so, but he isn't... a very distinct interest plateau was reached early on. Solutions might have been to cut a few hundred pages, as another reviewer suggested, or to time out some of the key moments a little better. Once more, a certain amount of repitition is good... a certain amount of repitition is good... a certain amount of repitition is good... but Dreamcatcher has too much.<br />All that said, I must make the similar atonement as do other reviewers here: I am a Stephen King fan. I read all of his books, and always will. I grade him against himself. If someone came to me and asked, should I read this book, holding aloft Dreamcater, I would absolutely tell them yes. Also, the afterword that 'reveals' King's state during the writing of this novel is unneccesary. It was obvious to me that he was in great pain as he wrote. This book is filled with physical pain. Never have I read more about excrement in my entire life. It sounds funny, but if ever there was a novel about farting, this is it. It so lends itself to a smelly, stale, and painful hospital room that it is no surprise to me that it was written in one - - and by hand.<br />Here's to long life and a terrific recovery by the great master!	2002-03-12
US	50955771	R3ES47SOFY3U85	0393043487	156190911	Servants of the Map: Stories	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderous world	Sometimes there are different degrees of good. For Servants of the Map, five stars doesn't seem to do it justice. In fact, using any sort of rating system doesn't feel right. This collection of stories is as fresh and clean as the outdoor worlds it so amazingly describes. Often, I found my mind wandering off the page, and rather than stop myself and turn back to the book, I let my thoughts linger on. The book is nostalgic in this way. It reads quietly and naturally. I felt myself living in Andrea Barrett's vivid landscapes, and communicating with her eccentrically human characters. How rarley in a book do you find two characters, both very likeable, dislike each other? Yet, how often do we find this in real life?<BR>In the second story, The Forest, as well as its companion, The Mysteries of Ubiquitin, opposing characters are quietly clashing almost all the time. Imagine two people, polar opposites, totally disgrunteled with each other, sitting comfortably on a patio near a swimming pool. <br />I can not recommend this book more emphatically. For those of you who are scared of short stories... stop, and read this book. In those blank spaces between the stories, a larger more wonderous world is created than in most novels I've recently read, including those busting over the 1000 page barrier. This one, you'll want to reread simply to give your imagination another Andrea Barret boost!	2002-02-18
US	50955771	R2PIZU4J56PADJ	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One Star Shy	What if Tolstoy were writing Anna Karenina today? Would Anna be an Oprah Winfrey addict. Would she be dosing on prozac and diet pills. Would Lenin be struggling with an obsession for internet porn? Thankfully, we'll never know these answers. However, the questions seemed very relevant to me while reading 'The Corrections'. <br />How beautiful can a scene describing an old man arguing with his own excrement be? Can a person grow to love characters that have every single one of their secrets revealed? Are there not things that all people consider private? Do you really want to know anyone this well?<br />Jonathan Franzen has managed to collect together a family portrait so vivid that it captures the inside and out. However, the bad pun of truth here is that we only see the negative. Or, you might argue, we see only the truth, and there is no positive in the truth. Maybe, everyone is just this way. Maybe everyone is simply a pastiche of faults, clamboring through life, trying to make as little an ... of themselves as possible. An amazingly terrible insight that is bleated on and on throughout an otherwise brilliantly written work. Franzen's insights are too dead on to be produced by anyone other than a co-conspirator of the banal and hopeless. But if there is beauty in banality, if excrement - babbling nonsensical profanity as it drips down the side of a wall - can be beautiful, it is only Jonathan Franzen, in this big book, who has forseen this potential.<br />My final question: is it wrong for me to rate this novel with only four stars, when I admit completely that it was wonderful? Full of wonders. What must it have included to garner that one extra star? What was it missing? Not reality. Not clarity. Not humor or wit. Character growth is there. It's all there. Is it too real? Does it hit too close to home? Is it true that we really want to escape the world when we read these days, and not face things as they are? Maybe the final star is a strike against me, and notthe book. Regardless, my rating stands. As for readers interested in buying - do not take this book to the beach with you, or on a cruise. Save it for those moments when you are in your house, drinking straight from the bottle, and wondering why everyone around you is so full of it.	2002-02-13
US	50955771	RCMKKCKDQND2L	0380790548	706505800	Worlds Vast and Various	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Worlds too vast for the space opera glutton	Worlds Vast and Various is a dense collection of at least three incredible stories, two really good stories, and seven entertaining so-so stories. Well worth an adventurous reader's time. But if your version of hard science fiction is Star Wars, steer clear. These stories are well thought out, well reseached, grounded in real science, and often pretty difficult to understand. I felt it neccesary to stop three or four pages into my three favorite stories and reread their beginnings entirely.<br />#1: A Dance to Strange Musics. Strange they are, but beautiful. Ominous. Discover a planet in the Alpha Centauri system like no other you've ever encountered. An existentialism is explored within the pages of this one, as humanity's tiny fraction of existence and following self-importance is stripped away by the simple existance of the planet Shiva. <br />#2: High Abyss. Another visit to a place completely and totally foreign. But this time, through the eyes of the foreigner. An excellent example of exposition for any beginning writer.<br />#3: World Vast, World Various. This title story is taken from a themed collection put together by Robert Silverberg: Murasaki. In it, a group of Japanese anthropologists try to figure out what the sentient race on a distant planet is up to... yet first contact is difficult when that aforementioned race ignores you. <br />Zoomers and a Worm in the Well also stand out as greats. Benford packs a punch in all these stories, sometimes just under the conscious level, but be warned: you do have to work for them. His writing style isn't stilted or steeped in irrelevant techno-jargon, but harbors a difficult rhythm, one that takes a few readings to successfully hear. A fine collection for the devoted reader.	2000-12-11
US	50955771	R13QMHRLQ0B7VB	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Reading and Writing	Stephen King is undoubtedly one of the greatest popular writers of our time; but is he one of the greatest readers? This begs the question, does an okay reading of a great story make the story just okay? Or, does an amazing reading of a terrible story make the story amazing? It's hard to say. Regardless, the three audio only (except for Lunch at the Gotham Cafe if you can dig it up) stories that make up Blood and Smoke come across as just okay.<br />Lunch at the Gotham Cafe has a dissolving marriage at its heart and seems to be the most serious of the three stories. It is vintage King in its treatment of all the injustices in the world. Maybe lawyers aren't so bad after all. And divorces are just par for the course. Or maybe they both lead to something more horrible than any of us can imagine.<br />Room 1408 is the most entertaining of the three in that it is as classic a haunted house story as they get. King does a terrific job twisting the hotel room into something horrible without actually throwing in any monsters. This story is also the most easily adaptable to the audio form.<br />The final story, In the Deathroom, was entertaining, but had a &quot;so what&quot; kind of feeling about it. A reporter is captured by Mexican bad guys and interrogated &quot;in the deathroom&quot;. While I was engaged, I'm not sure why. Maybe reading the story would have made it more accessible.<br />Ultimately, the gimmik of the cigarette theme and the audio only presentation don't do anything meritorious to the collection. Cigarettes play a significant role in the first story and make ironic guest appearances in the other two, but that's it. And while I commend King for continuing to push the envelope on the written word (or spoken), I think I would have enjoyed these stories more were I to have read them.	2000-11-29
US	50955771	R1MFSFT0YEUQK4	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Honest Look at the Truth	How is it that this is the first Terry Pratchett book I've read? I've long seen his books in stores, heard his name spoken, heard Discworld mentioned in conversations I may have eavesdropped on, and yet, not until The Truth, did I actually read him.<br />Somewhere in ancient times, back when people put on plays in togas for entertainment, I think there was a general idea about comedy. It went something like... only by poking fun at serious problems do we allow ourselves to examine those problems seriously. I'm paraphrasing, of course.<br />The Truth is like that. It is hilariously funny. Often ridiculous. But always engaging. I always wanted to know what was going to happen next. And I was genuinely concerned when bad things started to happen. In fact, I admit that when Otto Von Chrek, the vampiric photographer, turned to dust after his salamander &quot;flashbulb&quot; went off, I was deeply concerned! Thankfully, William de Worde (the inventor of Anke-Morpork's free press) was able to ressurect him with some carefully sprinkled rat's blood. But I was worried.<br />Funny, yet serious. I'm not sure how such a line is drawn, but Terry Pratchett draws it carefully. The Truth is one of the most dangerously engaging satires I've read, and expect to read, in quite some time.	2000-11-09
US	50955771	R31E9FMQVIAINM	038097696X	882537781	The Eye of Horus: A Novel of Suspense	Books	2	5	10	N	N	The Eyes of Horus are Upon You	Carol Thurston has managed to jumble together enough actual facts and interesting details to give Eye of Horus a boost over the typical thriller, but the lumpy writing and long totally unnecessary passages really drag it down. The story flip flops between Kate McKinnon, modern day artist, and the ancient unknown princess of Egypt, Aset. The mystery is based on a real one, namely how did a particular mummy get an extra head wrapped up in it, and whose mummy was it. This is the problem Kate is trying to solve, and the outcome Aset is unwittingly trying to avoid. Inbetween is alot of truly valueable daily life stuff for ancient Egypt and alot of useless modern day formula as well. The sad truth of the matter is, The Eye of Horus could have been a much better book were it about one hundred pages shorter. As it stands, its an entertaining read for an audience that's used to skipping pages at the slow parts.	2000-11-06
US	50955771	R1ZM38F5Y0CPDU	0061051802	769651317	Well of Darkness: Volume One of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy	Books	2	3	7	N	N	The Well Runs Dry	The institution of Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman have produced in Well of Darkness the beginnings of a promising series. Though I didn't like the new take on Dwarves and the new take on Orcs, the Elven society is interesting enough to make up for them. As for the story, there isn't one until the final seventy-five pages. Up to that point, the book reads like a role-playing game guide... and, that's kind of what it is, having been simultaneously released with the Sovereign Stone gaming system.<br />As readers of fantasy know, Margaret and Tracy aren't Tolkein split in half; but they're not schlock-king Piers Anthony either. Well of Darkness is long and somewhat boring, but ends in a way that seems to hint... hey, the next one's gonna be really good. And believe me, good or not, the next one will be very different, as the town of Vinnengael and its Dominion Lords are turned completely upside down. I'm tempted to bump this review up to three just out of curiousity.	2000-09-30
US	50955771	R292CS0M66F9IF	0380807904	606105498	Snake 'n' Bacon's Cartoon Cabaret	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Contagion of Strangeness	Michael Kupperman has created perhaps one of the strangest books ever with Snake 'n' Bacon's Cartoon Cabaret. For readers unfamiliar with Kupperman's work, let me clarify. After reading some of these cartoons, you will not be able to engage any other activity with any seriousness at all. For example, you may read a strip about Underpants-on-his-head-man, and then proceed directly to your morning paper, however, after Underpants-on-his-head-man, you will have an added insight into how ridiculous things really are and be unable to take anything Vladimir Putin, and certainly George Bush Junior &amp; Al Gore, says seriously.<br />This book is good for a rainy day, its good for a sunny day in the park. Its perfect for a birthday or an un-birthday. It's the all purpose book of the season. If I were you, I'd stock up now and be the first on your block to own it!	2000-09-14
US	50955771	RM63IZLUX4UKO	0966522400	11234634	Beyond the Wall of Sleep	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Few Nights Beyond the Wall	.... Beyond the Wall of Sleep is a collection of short stories like no other. The stories begin normally enough. A character is introduced, a question or philosphy or thread of a plot is offered, and then a crashing blow; a sudden unexpected abrupt ending occurs, leaving all that's been set up unanswered. It has a magical effect. Like in life, you ask, and the answers that come are often untranslatable, or never come at all. These stories are deeply personal, but while offering that window, they also become a bit of a mirror.<br />Personal favorites are &quot;The God Makers&quot;, a remarkable story that will surely be collected in a &quot;greatest&quot; collection somewhere in the future. &quot;The God Makers&quot; offers up the logical birth of animism on the one hand, and a simple story of a prehistoric fisherman on the other. &quot;The Voice&quot; alludes to Poe's &quot;Raven&quot;, quite intentionally, I believe, except the speaker of the voice, unlike the raven, is something/someone more collective. It's the &quot;boo&quot; in the night we've all heard at some point.<br />The last quarter of the book is poetry, and poetry is hard. It's hard to read, and much harder to write. On the reading team for this one, I found R. Andrew Heidel's poetry delightful. On the ones that didn't work for me, I just smiled and read on to the next one. For the ones that did work for me, I read them over and over in my head - because I've memorized most of them by now. &quot;Piss&quot;, &quot;Pin&quot;, and &quot;Over Tea with Ingrid&quot; -- sweet and funny and scary - just not in that order. <br />Over all, a collection well worth reading.	2000-08-23
US	50955771	R21LOMRW8G4SPC	0380792966	176034522	Child of the River:: The First Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	This Is Really a Five Star Book	So why did I give it only four stars? Two reasons. It's the first book in  a trilogy, and I always reserve some opinion (in this case, one star's  worth) for the final work all together. Secondly, it's not really a  trilogy, but a single novel broken up into three printings. This can be  somewhat frusterating when you're ten pages from the end and asking  yourself, &quot;How is this going to wrap up?&quot;... Answer: it  doesn't.<br />That said, this is a terrific book. The descriptions of exotic  locales and strange creatures are not only imaginative, but eloquently  written, beckoning to be spoken aloud at times. While reading, I often  drifted into a lush animated world of McAuley's creation. I wanted to pop  &quot;ghost berries&quot; into my mouth and feel the tangy juice on my  tongue as I burst open the skin. The Child of the River is that delicious.  It doesn't even really need a plot. But it has a great one, or at least the  beginnings of a great one. <br />Yama, the child of the river, is completely  and totally unique among his fellows of Confluence. He doesn't know where  he came from, how he was born, or what he is to be. But as he developes and  begins to learn the standard lessons of adulthood, he stumbles upon some  abilities that might come in handy for others. How these powers will play  in the war between the Heretics and the Preserver's Theocrates is one of  the many decisions Yama must make on the long road to discovering  himself.<br />A wonderous start for a trilogy... now on to the second book,  Ancients of Days.	2000-08-23
US	50955771	R3EJAXW90AP8ZG	0380976625	964582899	Beneath the Ashes: An Alaska Mystery (Alaska Mysteries)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	We All Fall Down	As a preface, I am not a mystery fan, and I am definately not a cozy  mystery fan. How this book came into my possesion is a mystery in and of  itself. But I read it, and did enjoy parts of it, but overall, I found it  over-simplified and unrealistic.<br />Basically, a &quot;somebody&quot; is  burning everything down in town, and Jessie Arnold somehow winds up in the  middle of it. Splash in some drudged up marital abuse from the past,  sprinkle with some over-zealous arson investigators, and you got a mystery  that, once all solved, still doesn't really fit together. Granted, I did  read Beneath the Ashes fast, and if your simply looking for something to  dog-ear while you sit by the pool, you can probably do much worse.	2000-08-23
US	50955771	R2AINC7Q5NDKQA	0441294677	274386890	God Emperor of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	This is what it's all about	After I read the first fifty pages of God Emperor Dune, a sudden sadness overtook me. I thought of all my friends that loved Dune, but got stuck in Dune Messiah. I thought of all the other ones that made it through Dune  Messiah, but got stuck in Children of Dune. Can we please have a moment of  silence for these unfortunate souls. <br />While I did like books 2 and 3 of  the series, I'm the first to admit that they were not of &quot;Dune&quot;  quality. God Emperor of Dune, however, may be its rival. It is so rare in a  series, especially in Book 4, that you think to yourself, all the other  books have been leading to this one moment. Leto II's Golden Path indeed  shines through. For non-sci-fi people, this series is more than sci-fi.  It's an examination of political philosopy, economy, and religion. One  could almost call it allegory. Herbert's characters: Maud'dib, Leto II,  even Moneo (in God Emperor) are so well developed as to become Messiah's,  God's, and friends in their own right. The Dune books force you to think,  they entertain, and they sweep the imagination to a world millenia away  from now. God Emperor of Dune itself take place 3 thousand years after  Children of Dune. If you are thinking of quitting the series, I counsel you  to wait until after you have read this amazing fourth book. My idea:  there's now way anyone could stop now.	2000-06-25
US	50955771	R1SG52M2U72USA	0688171095	798386363	The KGB Bar Book Of Poems	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Night life with words	A great intro to contemporary poetry. I say this because the KGB Bar Book of Poems is more than just a collection of poems, its a collection of photographs, and a collection of anecdotes. In some cases, the anecdotes  outshine the poetry. Roberty Bly's account of taking a really small  audience to a local apartment is charming, and Susan Wheeler's experience  with a group of convicted criminals is melancholy and thoughtful.  Additionally, the photograhs lend a great deal to the atmosphere in the  book. The dark smokey inebriated interior of the bar shines through Star  Black's trained lense. The poets and friends are always jubilant and  inviting. While reading, you really feel privy to some special  knowledge.<br />The poetry itself can be a mixed bag. It brings to mind the  maxim, &quot;you can't please all of the people all of the time.&quot;  Personal favorites for me are &quot;Santa Monica&quot; by Charlie Smith,  and David Trinidad's &quot;Of Mere Plastic&quot;, a funny but insightful  take-off of &quot;Of Mere Being&quot; by Wallace Stevens. I suggest you by  the book and read these two last. Each poet has a short bio before their  poem, listing their publications and history, so its a great lead of to  some terrific books. Find a poet you like, and dig into their back-prints.  Indeed, people don't read enough poetry these days. And what's a better way  to start than with this seemingly &quot;underground&quot; compilation?	2000-06-22
US	50955771	R168QB70Y8K2NR	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	7	8	N	N	To pulp, or not to pulp. That is the question.	It has been a long time since I've sat down and read an entire book in a single day. I woke up yesterday and decided to read the first few pages of a book a friend had recommended to me, The Forever War. Goodbye Saturday,  hello William Mandella and nearly four centuries of battling the  Taurans.<br />First things first: this book is not pulp sci-fi. The science  takes allowances, yes, but it is very well thought out. Tough sociological  questions are asked: about war, about sex and gender, about politics...  This is a very serious book.<br />Second. The Forever War is straight pulp.  You have laser battles, suited astronauts building bases on stargate  planets, an underwater battle with a &quot;shark&quot; with massive jaws  and eyestalks. Cyborgs. Clones. Taurans. Telepathic &quot;cows&quot;. You  name it. <br />I haven't been this entertained and intellectually stimulated  at the same time since Dune. Read this book.	2000-05-28
US	50955771	RZVZ2ZTLMO2PR	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	King succeeds with a very serious novel.	With Hearts in Atlantis, Stephen King has managed to accomplish two impressive things. First, he has written a horror novel where the horror is on the backburner. It waits ahead in the future for Low Men in Yellow  Coats, it's happening outside the smokey dorm rooms in the title story. And  it's a distant memory buried within the spirits of men in the final three  stories. Second, King has written a book about Vietnam without it  conforming to the cliches that make this subgenre so dispicable. His  characters are well crafted, act unpredictably (even to themselves at  times), and have different feelings about the war. Essentially, the war  happens, but they happen too. <br />I find Stephen King's ability to provide  us with this kind of book, after 30 some odd bestsellers behind him,  utterly remarkable. Despite some of the criticisms he recieves for being a  &quot;popular&quot; horror writer, I believe he is one of the most  important writers of our time. If you've never read King, and aren't into  &quot;monsters&quot;, then Hearts in Atlantis is a good place for you to  start.	2000-05-23
US	50955771	R2JT96Z5LKSZ8E	1568581262	756870442	Beast of the Heartland and other stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Lucius Shephard deserves to be read.	I love short stories, and it is clear to me that anyone else that loves short stories will love this collection, regardless of whether they condsider themselves sci-fi fans or not. In fact, two of the stories are  completely devoid of anything fantastical, and two more only touch upon the  surreal. In all seven, you do find the clear and descriptive writing that  carries with it an insight into human beings all across the world - or  universe. Shephard is able to portray the humanity and inhumanity as they  battle within each of his primary characters, and over all, you might say  that this is really what this collection is about. Each story has a clear  and entertaining plot, but underneath, each focuses on a character that is  struggling with his desires or angers or impulses that often lead to  self-destructive life patterns; vivid and recognizable as elements of our  own lives.<br />The genre sci-fi stories work the best for me. &quot;Barnacle  Bill, the Spacer&quot; and &quot;Human History&quot; make my top five list  of the best short stories ever. &quot;Sun Spider&quot; is interesting, but  without the punch. And the remaining three straight stories were good, but  less so than the others. However, in that &quot;Barnacle Bill, the  Spacer&quot; and &quot;Human History&quot; are practically short novels,  the book is well worth having just for these two stories alone. Consider  the others bonus stories. Collections as a general rule are spotty. There  are always pages you want to rip out and sometimes pages you want to hang  on the wall. This is the first I've read in a long time that has no rip out  material. Everything here is good. And some of it is truly amazing. Enjoy.	2000-05-14
US	50955771	R33HF1H525AEYS	0805055924	424044715	Chimney Rock: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The beauty in all things terrible	Charlie Smith is a master wordsmith. With mere words on a page, he is able to do what so many other respected, talented, and successful writers are unable to do: teleport you not just into another place filled with other  people, but into an idea. Fifty percent of any Smith book is theme. Just as  we spend so much of our day feeling things abstractly, taking in smells  that conjure up long lost memories, and existing in what feels sometimes  like a void; Charlie Smith unleashes this part of his characters. Will  Blake is a Hollywood actor birthing himself out of his existential crisis  and can see and finally accept, distantly, the beautiful in the terrible.  The end result is sweet, dark, scary, and insightful. I found myself  rereading passages just because I wanted to. I began to dream about the  people and the cities and the colors of all the flowers that populate  Chimney Rock. Its the kind of book that reveals the true power of a gifted  writer.<br />On the other hand, Charlie Smith is not for everyone.  Inexperienced readers need not apply. If a good yarn is all your after,  have a friend tell you the story. Charlie's prose is difficult. His  sentences are long and crooked. They sometimes form into chains that lead  to dramatically different places than they began. A man may walk into a  restaraunt and say hello to a woman, but her response could occur three  pages later with this type of writing. Its lyrical but indirect. Or, direct  spiritually, but not narratively. Nonetheless, its the difficult roads that  lead to the grandest rewards.	2000-04-06
US	50955771	R1Y8FR0KXB3SC4	0140150358	471945491	The Portable Chekhov (Portable Library)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Checkhov good - Translation, Not so good	Three stars for Anton Checkhov? What could I be thinking. First of all, having read my fair share of Russian literature in translation, I've discovered what a difference a good translator can make. The question of &quot;true to the material&quot; is one I can not answer since I do not  speak Russian. However, as far as good writing in English goes... this I  can judge. Exceptional stories like &quot;Daydreams&quot;, &quot;The  Kiss&quot;, and &quot;Gusev&quot; stand out with stellar content:  &quot;Daydreams&quot; finds a man whose hopes for the future are constantly  bashed by the two police he is with. &quot;The Kiss&quot; deals with a  soldier who creates an entire fantasy affair with a woman based on a single  accidental kiss. And &quot;Gusev&quot; follows the title character's slow  descent from sickness into death on board a battleship. &quot;The  Kiss&quot;, the finest of the bunch, was translated by Constance Garnett,  while Yarmolinsky translated almost all the others. Stories like &quot;The  Peasants&quot; are bogged down in Yarmolinsky's stilted style. It is  difficult to follow or care about characters doing every day things when  the reading of these things is so difficult.<br />This edition also has  certain letters collected toward the end. Any relationship between the  letters and the rest of the volume is lost to me. There is no mention of  any stories we've just read, or any theme amongst the letters themselves.  Perhaps more letters to a specific person, or revolving around the writing  of a story would have been more appropriate. As is, the tiny letters  section is very cutable, offering such a small glimpse as to prove useless.  Granted, Yarmolinsky had an almost impossible task. There can be no  &quot;portable&quot; Checkhov. The man wrote hundreds upon hundreds of  stories, and even more letters. His collected work could, and does, fill  volumes. Selecting six hundred pages, translating them, and hoping that  they can somehow represent a man is fallacy. Yet, until a better collection  comes along, we are forced to read what we can.	2000-03-19
US	50955771	R3LRKI6FJHN641	0451159098	231315808	Prime Evil: New Stories by the Masters of Modern Horror	Books	2	3	9	N	N	A fine collection of second rate stories	I give this book one star just because of the writers it includes, and I give it a second star only for the stories by David Morrell and Peter Straub. Otherwise, this is without a doubt the worst collection of horror  stories I have ever read. There is no consistant theme, not that there  should be one, but a theme would have given Prime Evil at least something  to separate it from all the other collections. The authors included, though  famous and well respected, have seemingly selected from the bottom of the  barrel. The Stephen King story, Night Flyers, is probably one of his worst  and of the headliners, only Straub's The Juniper Tree had any value, and it  is only a horror story by association, having no real place in a genre  collection. As a whole, the book works better as a marketing campaign.  Stories by Jack Cady, Thomas Tessier, and Charles Grant are amusing;  otherwise - don't waste your time.	2000-03-15
US	50955771	R11Z4J0ZPFMWGD	0140119485	613218337	Americana (Contemporary American fiction)	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Another dull and lurid year	In Americana, Don Delillo's first novel, David Bell begins by claiming, \\"Then we came to the end of another dull and lurid year.\\" This is the emptiness he struggles with, his own personal emptiness. The office  politics and sexual politics of his world are repetitive to the degree that  he is forced to pump them full of strange insincerities. Strange memo's  from an unknown source and shooting wads of crumpled paper into the waste  basket become his primary professional concerns; while sexually, he beds  women distantly, almost as a form of social masturbation. At one point,  when discussing his mother, and her death, David confesses that it will be  hard to not pump it up with smoke to hide the fire. This confession admits  that even his own personal history is somewhat lost to him. When the  opportunity presents itself, he sees a quest through Americana as one of  personal rediscovery. But Americana overshadows the discovery of David  Bell. David is swallowed by the idiosyncrasies of the U.S. He becomes more  and more removed from himself, realizing, you can't really run away from  the one thing you want to escape... yourself. In Americana, you can see the  style and subjects that will become White Noise and Underworld with time.  You also get a disturbing image of corporate America's spirtual life in the  late 1990's. Delillo is able to predict that existential crisis and  alienation of our youth's future.	2000-02-10
US	50955771	RB8JL6LLS4LNX	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A timeless modern fable	I am so glad that Harper-Collins had the foresight to pick this book up and reprint it with a nice new cover in a trade edition, because otherwise, I may have never discovered it. The Alchemist, by Paulo Coelho, will  uncannily relate to anyone's life. You will read it and wonder, \\"How is it  that I'm dealing with these very issues? Today, in fact!\\" The parable of  Santiago's journey to Egypt is primarily concerned with showing the rewards  of following your own dream, or your own \\"Personal Legend\\". In fact,  certain individual lines are so wonderful, that one could easily put  together a book of wisdom using only direct quotes: \\"When you want  something, all the universe conspires to help you achieve it.\\" But in  addition, the Alchemist is told well. The translation is clear and the  story is engaging. It is a story before a self-help book. But what a great  shroud for a self-help book to wear. This book will make you want to write  down your dreams, listen to the wind and your heart, and follow your own  Personal Legend fearlessly. And if you're weird and hate the book... big  deal, it only took one day to read.	2000-02-09
US	50955771	RTQNRHH4UCESY	0140119485	613218337	Americana (Contemporary American fiction)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	&quot;Then we came to the end of another dull and lurid year.&quot;	This first line is something that, in 1971, when the book was first published, almost predicts the aimlessness of the nineties. The principle character David Bell is lost in corporate America. There are few, if any,  moments that occur in his life that he doesn't think of as dull or lurid.  When David tells of his youth, you can see his separation from the world  around him growing. The complete insincerity towards others and even  himself. Before he tells the story of his own mother, he admits it will be  hard, and hopes to not have to &quot;blow some smoke into this or that  passage - some smoke to hide the fire.&quot; Delillo's Bell is totally  disillusioned. He's not ever sure what he wanted, but he's positive he's  not getting it. He's unable to truly separate from past relationships: his  ex-wife, old friends from college, old lovers. He leaves New York to find  himself, to have that journey outward that leads inward, but the opposite  occurs. As he delves deeper and deeper into Americana, Americana  overshadows him. It becomes a giant organism in which he is only a single  cell. No amount of ranting can change this fact for David. He buries  himself in sexual encounter after sexual encounter, a sort of social  masturbation. He lets secret angers (secret even to himself) boil out at  odd moments that become strange acts of violence, kicking strangers in the  ribs and trying to choke a friend to death in a misdirected drunken rage.  Americana begins with a man lost, and ends with the desperate search for  self having failed. A moment of insight occurs when David confronts hiself  at a mirror. He recognizes at this moment, that all his life, every mirror  he's ever looked into, always had him reflected back. And no matter where  he was or what he was doing, this would always be true. Is it hopeful to be  able to simply look into a mirror to find yourself? Or is that the  tragi-comic reminder that running away is impossible? That no matter where  you go, you always take yourself with you?<br />Americana is a fine first  novel. You can see in it the brilliances that will become White Noise and  Underworld with time and refinement. Paul Auster dedicated his book  Leviathan to Don Delillo and depicts a man rumored to be pattererned after  him. But take it from me, there are no cross-over insights to be found.  They key to digging beneath the layer of Americana is not held within  Leviathan. The key to Americana is simply to heed David Bell's own warning,  and try to read past the smoke to get to the fire it's hiding.	2000-02-07
US	50955771	R28PBM1A7X50S1	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	4	7	10	N	N	We're all being controlled by lasers from space!	This is Philip K's hyper-paranoia book. Of course, all of his books to some degree rely heavily on knowing the difference between &quot;reality&quot; and the totally subjective; but only in A Scanner  Darkly do the two fluctuate so. Our main character(s)' reality switches  before our eyes. In this book, you can see the brilliance that eventually  lead to Philip K's madness, but you can also see his glaring insight into  people and his terrific sense of humor. The first 150 pages of this book  had me laughing out loud in a way I haven't done since Catch 22. The only  fault of A Scanner Darkly may actually be intentional. As the life of Bob  Arctor disintigrates into incomprehensibility, so does the book. You can  tell Philip K. has something important to say in the last two chapters, but  it's difficult to tell on a single reading what it may be. My suggestion:  only read this book if you are willing to re-read the end and willing to  spend the next year reading everything else PKD wrote. The man is just  worth it.	2000-01-27
US	50955771	RDZPV8SM0EXR5	0684845776	92755284	Unlimited Power : The New Science Of Personal Achievement	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Motivational	At times, Unlimited Power is painfully simplistic. Robbins uses silly anecdotes to emphasis some of his points, and some of his points boil down to basic common sense. Other times, however, he is able to verbalize what I  considered to be very real, very helpful strategies for actually increasing  personal power. The book is well worth reading (just read it quickly) and  will likely continue to help people take control of their lives.	2000-01-14
US	50955771	R1RLYOPK16YXC1	0886777771	445199901	River of Blue Fire (Otherland, Volume 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A carefully crafted tease	This second volume of the Otherland series was either more focused than the first or I just knew better what to expect. The imaginative descriptions of the different worlds and the distinctly individual insights  into each character are entertaining enough on there own, but Williams is  able to tie these worlds and characters successfully into something much  bigger. Critics that claim no forward progress is being made in large  portions of the novel aren't reading carefully enough, but I admit that  with four volumes at around seven hundred pages a whack, you sometimes wish  he'd get to the point faster than he does. Regardless, I'll be reading  volume three with eager anticipation.	2000-01-14
US	50955771	R1511BUVIFCJUB	0684864215	331935214	Valparaiso: A Play	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Up up and away	As a social commentary, Valparaiso ably tackles the &quot;one minute of fame&quot; phenomenon, our obsession with media, our existential search for meaning in anything as trivial as confused travel plans, the steady decay  of human to human relations, and the general emptiness one confronts in  everyday life. I feel that these are Delillo themes that are tackled better  elsewhere. An entertaining interesting read, however, with only a few over  the top moments to bring it down.	1999-10-03
US	50955771	R3T2LK0KU0G8CA	0684867621	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon : A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lost in the woods?	I have always taken King's books seriously, so this attempt to write a &quot;serious book&quot; confuses me. Unfortunately, King has to live with the stigma of sub-literature that people put on just about any genre piece.  This terrific novel by any other standards, did not hold up for me when  compared to other King greats. There are moments of pure brilliance - in  fact, page 100 to the end are terrific. Trisha's family history is very  realized, as are her friends, but sometimes the voice of Trisha wavers.  Sometimes she's too adult, sometimes too childish. The cacophony of her  terrible mistakes clashed against her moments of insight are difficult to  believe. Mostly, there are moments where we are wandering in the woods with  her, and unfortunately, are also lost and a little bored.	1999-09-24
US	50955771	R2WD31NUBR0BH8	0606005919	974134151	East of Eden	Books	1	19	80	N	N	A good middle school read	When I was in middle school, I read Steinbeck voraciously. I cried at the end of Of Mice And Men to the point of total embarrasement. I blinked hard at The Pearl and wanted a Red Pony. Little did I know, that ten years later  I would pick up East of Eden and discover (to my shock!) that Steibeck,  though a good story teller, was a terrible writer. Lord knows intelligent  people will disagree with me on this one, but I found East of Eden to be  trite, oversimplified, and downright silly at about every turn. I'm sorry  to say that my Steinbeck days are now officially behind me.	1999-09-22
