US	50961351	RBFSXT7V3MVEU	0761525556	746070341	The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Empire	Books	1	10	20	N	N	A bit silly.	There are number of reasons why this book really is not worth reading. Firstly, one can not read more than two pages without reading quotations reached from second hand sources. For instance, on almost every other page, Mister Crozier quotes either Dmitri Volkogonov or Richard Pipes (not for their writings, but to quote Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin!; couldn't Mister Crozier muster the time or intellect to do research on a personal level!). While Pipes and Volkogonov are certainly authorities on Russian history, there is no reason why they should be quoted on every other page! Furthermore, all of the independent ideas were reached by either Pipes, Volkogonov, or some other equally well known authority on Russian history. So if there is absolutely no information or conclusions that weren't already reached by previous authors such as Roy Medvedev, Richard Pipes, Robert Conquest, or Dmitri Volkogonov; why was this book written?<br />Which brings me to my next point. There is clearly an extreme right wing bias on virtually every page. While this may make good reading if you're on the extreme right; it's quite annoying to centrist McCainites such as myself. This book was obviously not intended for public consumption, but was intended for Crozier's clique of petty minded right wing extremists (Crozier has written a positive biography of the ruthless Spanish dictator Franco; who but an extreme right-wing fanatic could write such a book?).<br />The book seems like the author only read the works of Pipes and Volkogonov, and had absolutely no prior knowledge of the entire twentieth century (I struggled to find any ideas within the book which were formulated by Mister Crozier individually, but alas, there were none). Personally, I would not recommend this book to anybody; I wouldn't even recommend it simply as a shelf filler. Stick with authorities on the subject; such as Robert Service, Robert Conquest, Roy Medvedev, etc, and etc. Because this book will not tell a single personanything new on the subject; unless of course, a person is not acquainted with Soviet History.	2002-02-06
US	50961351	R2VYLBXITHWZJB	0691010935	705490845	Beria: Stalin's First Lieutenant	Books	4	9	22	N	N	A fair assessment of a misunderstood man.	To many Russians, Stalin still epitomizes every thing that was good about Soviet society; such as a sense of brotherhood with their fellow man, a strong sense of national identity, and a feeling that the greatest man alive was looking out for their interests. They lay the blame for collectivization, and the purges, on misleading advice, by Stalin's accomplices, such as Malenkov, Beria, and Bulganin. When asked, they honestly believe, that were it not for Beria, Nikolai Bukharin, &quot;Lenin's favorite&quot;, would never have been executed. So there obviously needed to be some sort of accessible reappraisal (accessible in the sense, that it must be written so non-Leninists could understand it)of Lavrentii Beria; and Amy Knight's biography of Beria does an adequate job, of such a &quot;reappraisal.&quot; A Russian curious about their own past, or an American with curiosity in regard to Sovietology, will find this book immensely interesting.<br />Lavrentii Beria, like Joseph Stalin, was born in the country of Georgia. However, unlike Stalin, Beria was a minority in his own country; he was mingrelian, which is, for reasons this reviewer does not know, different from other Georgians. He joined the Bolsheviks, much like 95% of their membership in 1924 (a product of Stalin's ill thought out idea the &quot;Lenin Levy&quot;, where anybody, regardless of their past, could join the Communist Party), after the Bolshevik revolution. He had no prior knowledge of Trotsky's relations with Lenin, which is why he bought into Zinoviev and Stalin's polemic, &quot;Leninism or Trotskyism&quot;; and quickly took the side of Leninism (or Stalinism; which it was in reality). He quickly formed a relationship with one of Stalin's cronies, Sergo Ordzhonkidze. This relationship soon blossomed into a sort of protege/teacher, type of relationship, and Beria quickly rose up the bureaucratic ladder. And strangely enough, this rise up the bureacratic ladder led to a protege/teacher relationship withStalin. By 1938, Stalin appointed Beria head of the NKVD (precursor to the KGB), and typical of Russian politics, he murdered his predecessor, Nikolai Yezhov. During his term as leader of the NKVD, Beria enacted many positive reforms, in conjunction with unparalleled acts of brutality, such as overseeing the assasination of Trotsky, and sending Red Army troops to GULAG. By the late 1940's, he fell out of favor in Stalin's eyes; and were it not for Stalin's premature death in 1953, he would undoubtedly have recieved the same treatment his two successors, Yagoda and Yezhov, recieved (liquidation!). The true value of Amy Knight's superb biography lies in it's description of Russia after Stalin's death. Knight, with extensive documentation, has shown that Beria would have enacted most of the reforms that Khrushchev enacted; such as de-Stalinization, amnesty of all GULAG prisoners, and an attempt at de-bureaucratization of the entire country. So really, paradoxically, one could say that Beria is one of Russia's great reformers, in the tradition of Peter the Great, Alexander II, Pyotr Stolypin, and Lenin; because he, not Khrushchev, laid the basis for de-Stalinization, which in turn, led to the collapse of the Soviet system (one can not deny that it was de-Stalinization, and not the intellectual bantam-weight Ronald Reagan, that caused the collapse of the USSR). This is just a remarkably fascinating book, that provides a lot of &quot;food for thought&quot;, and I would recommend it to anybody.	2001-06-01
US	50961351	R27KDSZXGQ6QQQ	0231063512	463185427	Let History Judge	Books	5	21	30	N	N	As definitive as a person could possibly desire.	The late 1990's saw the publication of numerous scatterbrained, and ill-intentioned, attempts to descredit Vladimir Lenin, Nikolai Bukharin, Leon Trotsky, and Karl Marx, by associating their actions, and ideas, with those of Joseph Stalin. One must ask, &quot;were these attempts in any way successful?&quot; Luckily, the answer is an emphatic, no. The individuals who bought into the &quot;Marx and Lenin created Stalinism&quot; theory, alluded to in works such as 'The Black Book of Communism', by Mister Courtois (or Miss), 'The Passing of an Illusion', by Mister Furet, and 'The Soviet Tragedy', by Mister Malia, already harbored such fantastic illusions. Most of the population has no interest in Sovietology, so attempts at descrediting Lenin, Marx, Bukharin, and Trotsky, were, and are, virtually fruitless (I took a Public Speaking course at a local community college, and most of the students hadn't even heard of Lenin, Marx, or Trotsky!.)<br />To find true objectivity, on the subject of Sovietology, one must reach back into the distant past, and read Roy Medvedev's incredible, 'Let History Judge'. One could refer to Medvedev's writings, as &quot;Solzhenitsyn, without the racism and bitterness&quot;(a spew of biographies show that Solzhenitsyn is without question anti-semitic; however, this fact doesn't mean he's no longer one of the elite writers of the twentieth century). 'Let History Judge', is not so much a history of Stalin, but a history of Russia from 1917-1953. Described, with minute detail, is Lenin's seizure of power, Lenin's benevolent feelings toward Stalin (which ended effectively after the Eleventh All-Congress of the Bolsheviks), Trotsky's role as leader of the Red Army, Trotsky's complete ineptness in regard to the left-opposition, and Stalin's remarkable, almost super-human, political abilites. In addition, one will never discover a finer description of collectivization anywhere (although I must admit Conquest's 'Harvest of Sorrow', is pretty excellent). Russia's grain production in 1930-1933, were almost certainly below pre-WWI levels, apparently, but Stalin wanted Russia to appear forceful, so he sold grain internationally, as if it were &quot;business as usual&quot;, which resulted in the death of millions of non-guilty peasants (however, one can not deny George Carlin's classic quote, &quot;there are no innocent people, once you're born, you're guilty as charged&quot;).The description of the horrible Gulag system is not quite as great as Solzhenitsyn's, but it's pretty darn close. Unlike Solzhenitsyn, Medvedev doesn't slander the dead, or embark on anti-semitic diatribes (thankfully, for the population at large, Medvedev critiques much of what Solzhenitsyn wrote in the 'Gulag Archipelago' with absolute clarity).<br />The price is pretty high, but at 800+ pages, the person isn't really buying just one book, they are buying a multitude of books, which cover a variety of subjects. In addition to, 'Let History Judge', I would also strongly recommend you read Edvard Radzinsky's 'Stalin', Volkogonov's 'Autopsy of an Empire' (being a Yeltsin staffer, Volkogonov is biased, but there is some interesting anecdotes!), and Robert Tucker's magnificent two-volume biograpy of Stalin. Unlike other works on the subject of the Russian Revolution, these works actually take a &quot;scholarly&quot; approach!. Russia's grain production in 1930-1933, were almost certainly below pre-WWI levels, apparently, but Stalin wanted Russia to appear forceful, so he sold grain internationally, as if it were &quot;business as usual&quot;, which resulted in the death of millions of non-guilty peasants (however, one can not deny George Carlin's classic quote, &quot;there are no innocent people, once you're born, you're guilty as charged&quot;).The description of the horrible Gulag system is not quite as great as Solzhenitsyn's, but it's pretty darn close. Unlike Solzhenitsyn, Medvedev doesn't slander the dead, or embark on anti-semitic diatribes (thankfully, for the population at large, Medvedev critiques much of what Solzhenitsyn wrote in the 'Gulag Archipelago' with absolute clarity).<br />The price is pretty high, but at 800+ pages, the person isn't really buying just one book, they are buying a multitude of books, which cover a variety of subjects. In addition to, 'Let History Judge', I would also strongly recommend you read Edvard Radzinsky's 'Stalin', Volkogonov's 'Autopsy of an Empire' (being a Yeltsin staffer, Volkogonov is biased, but there is some interesting anecdotes!), and Robert Tucker's magnificent two-volume biograpy of Stalin. Unlike other works on the subject of the Russian Revolution, these works actually take a &quot;scholarly&quot; approach!	2001-05-14
US	50961351	R2N9GRCEFEA0IS	1563249952	719822483	My Russia: The Political Autobiography of Gennady Zyuganov	Books	1	0	2	N	N	The Party Hack Speaks!	In his book, 'Post-Soviet Russia', the famous historian Roy Medvedev writes about the perilous course Yeltsin drove the country with his modernization program, bitterly described as \\"Shock Therapy\\", amongst Russians. And he also describes many of the figures who sway political power amongst Russian voters. Medvedev portrays Communist party chief, Gennady Zyuganov as kind of a dullard, who only sways power because of the fact, no other Communist leader has arisen, that has any sort of abilities. Medvedev says that Zyuganov has very little, if any, knowledge of Russia's past, and buys into laughable esoteric theories such as this, \\"the World is run by a select group of individuals\\" (sort of a New World Order Conspiracy type theory). His description of Gennady Zyuganov couldn't be closer to the truth than if God had wrote it!<br />But that's what Roy Medvedev wrote about Zyuganov in general. Let's occupy ourselves with Zyuganov's petty attempt at describing his own country's history (keeping in mind he knows very little about Russian history). His description of Perestroika, and Communist terminology, is absolutely hilarious. To elaborate, anyone who studies Gorbachev, and Gorbachevism, will come to understand that Gorbachev could be described as a 'neo-Bukharinist'. However, in his petty, and uneducated way , Zyuganov refers to Gorbachev as a 'neo-Trotskyite'. How could Gorbachev in any way be described as a 'neo-Trotskyite'? Leon Trotsky, as Isaac Deutscher explains in his masterful biography of Trotsky, advocated virtually everything Stalin advocated; collectivization, super-industrialization, and revolutionary expansionism (although Stalin briefly had to condescend to Bukharin's level, and pretend he was in favor of 'socialism in one country'). Conversely, Mikhail Gorbachev, in a move that Nikolai Bukharin would likely have favored (a narrow minded, nationalist type of action), allowed all of eastern-Europe to fall into the hands of the liberal bourgeoisie. The Russian Communist \\"Chief\\" Zyuganov should have refered to Gorbachev as a 'neo-Bukharinst'.<br />He also takes a stab at literary theory as well. He writes that Russian's, read many of the writings of American authors, such as Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner, and Twain. He says this forms some sort of dichotomy with America because we read the works of Tolstoy, Gogol, and Chekhov. What direction was he going exactly when he said that? Does he have such an inferiority complex, that he thinks Americans percieve Russians as some sort of cultural miscreants who are unable to comprehend mathematics, or able to read books? What point was he trying to prove exactly!<br />From beginning to end, this book makes very little sense, there's no continuity from one chapter to the next, and his life is of absolutely no interest to anybody, primarily because he was basically some low-level functionary from 1965 to 1991. If you can find an inexpensive copy at some flea market, go ahead and buy this book, but don't pay any more than $... for this book, you'll learn more reading 'Sports Illustrated' or 'Low Rider.'	2001-04-27
US	50961351	R2QNT4FZW120NB	034016932X	272752630	Trotsky	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating.	Was Leon Trotsky &quot;shy&quot;? As strange as it may seem, Carmichael has provided possible evidence for such a diagnosis in his superb biography. Trotsky, who was perhaps the greatest orator of the twentieth century (which is why the &quot;shy&quot;, accusation seems so paradoxical), never formed his own faction, and displayed &quot;passive&quot; behavior while Stalin and his clique of idiots overran the country, and in addition, he relied mainly on Lenin for his own political fortunes. While health incapacitated V.I. Lenin, Trotsky showed complete ineptness, ideologically, and personally, with his own actions. Lenin was preparing a &quot;bombshell&quot;, which would have resulted in the ouster of Stalin from the Bolsheviks in 1921, Trotsky was aware of what this info was (the nationalities issue), but when Lenin was attacked by another stroke, Trotsky just made a &quot;compromise&quot; with Stalin! Instead of destroying Stalin politically, he passively watched as Stalin, Zinoviev, and Kamenev betrayed the Bolshevik Revolution (certainly not the actions of a genius!). Trotsky had a myriad of opportunities to consolidate his own position in the USSR, but didn't; he was head of the army and navy, was perhaps Lenin's closest comrade, but yet, he, instead of Stalin, ended up with a pic-axe in the skull thousands of miles from the Kremlin. The only explanation is that Trotsky was &quot;shy&quot; (or passive; Carmichael traced this passiveness to Trotsky's ideology, which apparently states that the role of the individual is minimal).<br />Unlike other bio's of Trotsky, such as Deutscher's and Volkogonov's, Carmichael focuses a large amount of words to the psychological motive behind some of Trosky's actions. For instance, why did he not just eliminate Stalin, Zinoviev, Kamenev, and Bukharin through a coup d'etat? His explanation was that this would have been percieved as Bonapartism, and the country would have degenerated into an ineffective bureacracy. But isn't thiswhat happened anyway! Clearly, Trosky's description of his unwillingness to seize power through a coup d'etat is unsatisfactory. Anyway, although this book is out-of-print, I would still recommend you somehow find yourself a copy, because it's a superb book.	2001-03-01
US	50961351	R3DU0SJ9CJ2N6A	0804707227	652723453	Karl Radek: The Last Internationalist	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Karl Radek: 1885-1939 (or circa 1960;or still alive).	'Karl Radek: The Last Internationalist', seems to be a very pretensious title, considering the fact that Trotsky, Che, and even Fidel lived after Radek's &quot;alleged&quot; death (much like Jim Morrison and Tupaq Shukur, there are a remarkable amount of &quot;Radek still lives&quot; types of theories), but after reading a few pages, the title is of absolutely no importance. Because Radek, much like every other revolutionary emigre during the early twentieth century, was a captivating figure, personally, and ideologically.<br />Karl Radek, born in Poland, essentialy raised in a German area, was an associate to perhaps the most famous Socialists of the twentieth century, Rosa Luxemburg, Leon Trotsky, Vladimir Lenin, Karl Liebknecht, Karl Kautsky, and the psuedo-Bolshevik, Joseph Stalin (does expropriating money from banks, and having a National Socialist ideology make a person a genuine Bolshevik?), which obviously means that a bio of him will be of a high caliber. The author's life of Radek is very revealing. Studying the works of Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, a person inevitably stumbles upon Radek's zig-zags from Trotskyism, Leninism, and Stalinism, but nobody really understands his motive for such actions. This brief book (176 pgs.), outlines most of the &quot;gaps&quot; in a person's knowledge. Radek, who was a grubby type of character (much like Che Guevara, Radek cared little for personal hygiene, and apperance), was a polemicist and journalist of the first rank, and usually had his own agenda. Unfortunately, his personal opinions rubbed most of the people he came into contact with the wrong way; which is why an intellectual as prominent as Radek never became a member of the Soviet politbureau. He was opposed to the 1923-24 putsch, in Germany, which resulted in a disastrous set back for the German Communist Party, yet, because of the animosity between he and the President of the Comintern, Grigory Zinoviev, he recieved most of the blame anyway (he was stripped of his Central Comitee Membership, and his prominence in Comintern was eliminated). Conversely, his sheepish betrayal of Trotsky while in exile in Siberia during the late 1920's is described with some amount of accuracy; such as his motives for doing such a despicable thing. <br />The last chapter, which is the same as the title of the book, mentions many of the &quot;Radek still lives&quot; theories. Such as Radek possibly writing Khrushchev's secret speech in 1956, and Radek possibly writing for pravda and izvestia under a different penname. I am compelled, to some extent, into believing that Radek lived longer than his supposed death in 1939. Radek, much like Trotsky, was a very resilient individual (with the mortality rate in eastern Europe during the nineteenth century, it's really a miracle Radek lived long enough to experience the Russian Revolution in the first place!), and is gossip and hearsay from &quot;stoolies&quot; in GULAG enough to place a concrete statistic on Radek's date of death? 'Karl Radek: The last internationalist', is a captivating work, and needs to be read by anyone that has a brain, or thinks they have a brain (by this, I mean haughty psuedo-intellectuals).	2001-02-01
US	50961351	R3UHMQJID892ZY	0873484134	983630931	Writings of Leon Trotsky: (1930)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Trotsky: The prophet vindicated	Writings of Leon Trotsky: 1930, is not a book that Trotsky ever saw published. It is a complilation of his letters, and articles, many of which were not available to the public until the publication of this 12-volume collection. And obviously, much of the series is impertinent to the prevalent situation in the World, but there are some genuinely correct predictions in the series (of course, much like Nostradamus, a person is bound to be right once in a while!). <br />For instance, in this particular volume, Trotsky says that if Russia were ever to return to capitalism, the big bourgeoisie would gain a stranglehold on the more important functions of the country, such as the media, military, agriculture, and industry. The development of capitalism in Russian during the early 90's saw this prediction come to fruition. What Yeltsin envisioned as a democratic system in the mould of the US, turned into an oligarchic democracy, much like Plato's description in the Republic. Where there really is no &quot;middle class&quot;, per se, there is only mega rich, and extremely poor (sort of like Mexico). Perhaps, as most experts generally agree, Yeltsin shoud not have privatized businesses that were still quite successful; and if they needed to be privatized, Russia should have auctioned them off for more money (during Russia's privatization era, Yeltsin allowed businesses that were worth billions of dollars, to be sold for mere millions!; no wonder our economy was so poweful in the mid-to-late nineties, America completely pillaged the former Soviet Union of all it's possesion's!).<br />Conversely, the factional articles are also very insightful. There is an article about foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov, which completely reveals that Molotov is an absolute ignoramus. In addition, the brief essay, Stalin as theoritician, is an immediate classic in political literature. Trotsky points out all of the contradictions of Stalin's centrist ideology. However, not all of the writingsin this work are remarkable, Trotsky never intended much of this material to be published, so the reader recieves info that is not of the highest quality (for instance, letters and telegrams which should never have seen the light of day).	2001-01-19
US	50961351	R3HENIL6J5VVPB	0802116000	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A benchmark, which other bio's are measured by.	Ernesto Che Guevara was a prominent figure in the Cuban revolution, and is admired throughout the world for his anti-US, and anti-imperialist ideology (many of the admirers of Che, seem to abhor Fidel Castro), his compassionate humanism (Jean-Paul Sartre said Che was the most &quot;complete&quot; human in the World), and apparently, his handsomeness (I got a poster of Che, and the first thing my mom said, was, &quot;he's a good looking guy&quot;; which is quite a strange experience!). And there have been a spew of bio's that cover the life of Che in recent years, and they all seemed to occur in conjunction. When Anderson's masterful bio hit the shelves, one by Taibo II called, 'Guevara: Also Known as Che', was also released, and one by Jorge Castanedas, named 'El Companero: The Life of Che Guevara' was released as well. But don't be fooled, this bio of Che is the only one you'll ever need to read.<br />There's a reason this book is in the shelf of a person in almost every town in the US, it is well-written, and is astoundingly interesting. Much like Stephen Ambrose's trilogy on Nixon, a person doesn't even have to have an interest in the subject, to enjoy the book. Similar to Wheen's bio of Marx, Anderson does not focus on Che's ideology, he focuses on the human Che Guevara. And even an ignorant right-winger can not deny that Che Guevara led an extremely interesting life. This is a ground-breaking biography, and it's almost a crime that it is not categorized in the literature section at bookstores, much like Gertrude Stein's the Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, and Sartre's Words, because it is that good, if not better!	2001-01-19
US	50961351	R2HMDG3GI19FA0	0873488024	260885449	History of the Russian Revolution (Russian Edition)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Not so much history, as it is literature.	The great physicist Albert Einstein (who belonged to the Social Democratic party in Austria by the way), when reading about Trotsky's plight during the 1930's, undoubtedly came across his one lasting, and most pertinent contribution to literature, which is the three-volume History of the Russian Revolution. The Russian Revolution began in March of 1917, and ended in the month of October (November in the present calender system), in the very same year. What happened during this several month long interval is debatable, even eighty years after the event, but there is not a single individual who took part in the event that is more qualified to tell it's story, than the &quot;author&quot; of the Bolshevik Revolution, Lev Davidovich Trotsky.<br />One would think that since Trotsky was expelled from the country he essentially &quot;founded&quot;, that he would write with major personal biases, against the party in power, but reading the nearly 1300 pg. book, one realizes this just isn't the case. His description of the Provisional Government and the individuals who belonged to it are almost essential to understanding the Russian Revolution (perhaps more pertinent than when it was published). The historians Richard Pipes and Orlando Figes, who have written long and informative studies of the Russian Revolution, overlooked many of the figures of the Provisional Government, such as Miliukov, Prince Lvov, and the Mensheviks Tseretelli, Martov, and Dan, in their works, and focused mainly on the major Bolshevik figures such as Lenin, Kamenev, Zinoviev, and Stalin. <br />In contrast to Figes and Pipes, Trotsky comprehensively studies almost &quot;everybody&quot; who participated in the Revolution. Trotsky describes the ebbs and flows of each party that was in opposition to Bolshevism, such as Miliukov's and Lvov's Kadet Party (Consitutional Democrats), Kerensky's Socialist Revolutionary party, and Dan's, Martov's (although he was swept into the &quot;dust bin&quot; of history long before the revolution; thought of as the founder of Menshevism, Yuli Martov never actually controlled the movement beacuse of his battle with tuberculosis, and his &quot;lazy&quot; demeanor), and Tseretelli's Mensheviks. <br />In addition to providing brief profiles of the prominent figures in 1917 Russia, Trotsky provides a masterful analysis of Russia's development from 1500 to 1900. Because Russia never developed any sort of economic or social systems of their own; they borrowed ideas mainly from their neighbours Germany, China, and Rome; a process which he referred to as &quot;combined development.&quot; <br />An example of &quot;combined development&quot;, is Russia's capitalist development during the nineteenth century. The nation's of Britain, Germany, and America, went through their capitalist development much earlier than Russia, and referred to this period as the Age of Industrialization. However, because Russia chose the course of capitalism much later, this didn't mean it's course would have been exactly the same as America's, Germany's, or Britain's. Because Russia could borrow many of the ideas, and equipment, that was not available to three colonial powers (US, Germany, Britain), when they were going through the Age of Industrialization, Russia's development went much smoother and easier.<br />Conversely, prominent literary critics such as Edmund Wilson and Irving Howe felt Trotsky's 'History of the Russian Revolution', was a literary masterpiece, and Trotsky, who was extremely critical of everything he wrote (although it is equal to his 'history', in my mind, Trotsky felt his autobiography was one of the worst books he ever wrote), also thought it was his best work. So I would strongly recommend you find yourself a copy of 'History of the Russian Revolution', because you can't quite put up an argument against figures as large as Howe, Wilson, and Trotsky!	2001-01-19
US	50961351	R16HHFKRBDGGAT	0674003306	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	5	2	5	N	N	My personal favorite, as far as bio's go.	The amount of biographies, good and bad,about Lenin would consume an entire werehouse, but the best, and most readable bio in my opinion is Robert Service's. In it, Service doesn't embark on a diatribe against Lenin's involvment in the development of the horrible gulag system, or his ruthlessness regarding &quot;class enemies&quot;, like others authors. What Service does is describe to the reader the major influences on the development of Vladimir Ilich's ideology and abiltities. For instance, Service writes that the classical philosophers and orators had more of an effect on Lenin's sytem of philopsophy than had been purported by other writers(of course one only need to read Plato's Republic to understand where Lenin concieved his version of the &quot;dictatorship of the proletariat&quot;). In addition, Service brilliantly presents Lenin's ideology in the context of his time(sure prison camps, and executions seem barbaric in the 21st century, but in 1917, these sort of acts of brutality were the norm, need proof, just read Hemingway's war novel, a &quot;Farewell to Arms&quot;). I would predict that politically conservative and liberal individuals would enjoy this biography. It's not remarkably pro-Lenin, nor is it remarkably &quot;blasphemous&quot; to Lenin's image as an individual who wanted to lift humanity above it's selfishness and ignorance to inconcievable heights. Lenin led such a fantastically absurd life(Alexander II murdered Lenin's brother, so 30 years later, Lenin is essentially the &quot;Tsar&quot; of Russia, and destroys Nicholas II's entire family;it seems almost fictional!), this book could be anything but uninteresting.	2001-01-06
US	50961351	R2FEY9SPK1QY8N	0674003306	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	5	3	7	N	N	My personal favorite, as far as bio's go.	The amount of biographies, good and bad,about Lenin would consume an entire werehouse, but the best, and most readable bio in my opinion is Robert Service's. In it, Service doesn't embark on a diatribe against Lenin's involvment in the development of the horrible gulag system, or his ruthlessness regarding &quot;class enemies&quot;, like others authors. What Service does is describe to the reader the major influences on the development of Vladimir Ilich's ideology and abiltities. For instance, Service writes that the classical philosophers and orators had more of an effect on Lenin's sytem of philopsophy than had been purported by other writers(of course one only need to read Plato's Republic to understand where Lenin concieved his version of the &quot;dictatorship of the proletariat&quot;). In addition, Service brilliantly presents Lenin's ideology in the context of his time(sure prison camps, and executions seem barbaric in the 21st century, but in 1917, these sort of acts of brutality were the norm, need proof, just read Hemingway's war novel, a &quot;Farewell to Arms&quot;). I would predict that politically conservative and liberal individuals would enjoy this biography. It's not remarkably pro-Lenin, nor is it remarkably &quot;blasphemous&quot; to Lenin's image as an individual who wanted to lift humanity above it's selfishness and ignorance to inconcievable heights. Lenin led such a fantastically absurd life(Alexander II murdered Lenin's brother, so 30 years later, Lenin is essentially the &quot;Tsar&quot; of Russia, and destroys Nicholas II's entire family;it seems almost fictional!), this book could be anything but uninteresting.	2001-01-06
US	50961351	R1RON6VWV6BH9X	0674003306	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	5	7	16	N	N	My personal favorite, as far as bio's go.	The amount of biographies, good and bad,about Lenin would consume an entire werehouse, but the best, and most readable bio in my opinion is Robert Service's. In it, Service doesn't embark on a diatribe against Lenin's involvment in the development of the horrible gulag system, or his ruthlessness regarding &quot;class enemies&quot;, like others authors. What Service does is describe to the reader the major influences on the development of Vladimir Ilich's ideology and abiltities. For instance, Service writes that the classical philosophers and orators had more of an effect on Lenin's sytem of philopsophy than had been purported by other writers(of course one only need to read Plato's Republic to understand where Lenin concieved his version of the &quot;dictatorship of the proletariat&quot;). In addition, Service brilliantly presents Lenin's ideology in the context of his time(sure prison camps, and executions seem barbaric in the 21st century, but in 1917, these sort of acts of brutality were the norm, need proof, just read Hemingway's war novel, a &quot;Farewell to Arms&quot;). I would predict that politically conservative and liberal individuals would enjoy this biography. It's not remarkably pro-Lenin, nor is it remarkably &quot;blasphemous&quot; to Lenin's image as an individual who wanted to lift humanity above it's selfishness and ignorance to inconcievable heights. Lenin led such a fantastically absurd life(Alexander II murdered Lenin's brother, so 30 years later, Lenin is essentially the &quot;Tsar&quot; of Russia, and destroys Nicholas II's entire family;it seems almost fictional!), this book could be anything but uninteresting.	2001-01-06
US	50961351	R2HWYLP7BM3MW3	014028334X	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest: (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A strong contrast from the movie.	An individual who sees the movie first, and expects to read one of the funniest novels ever, will be sorely disappointed. The movie, is told in some respects, from the viewpoint of R.P. McMurphy(played in the movie, brilliantly by the way, by Jack Nicholson), while the book, is told from the viewpoint of Chief Bromden(played in the movie by Will Sampson). And from Chief Bromden's perspective(that of a virtual mental ward &quot;lifer), some of the things, such as Bancini constantly moaning, &quot;I'm tired, I'm tired&quot;, which McMurphy justs finds hilarious, Bromden finds rather tragic. The viewer of the movie doesn't fully understand that nurse Racthed is &quot;evil&quot;, to some extent, I'm certain viewer's of the movie sympathized for her, but the reader of the book has absolutely no sypathy for Nurse Ratched. The reason the reader of the book has no sypmathy for Nurse Ratched is they know her whole story, she eliminates any one with independent ideas, and falsifies the results of other people's findings(for instance, if the doctor, who viewers of the movie thought would help Jack, were to diagnose MacMurphy as capable of returning to the normal world, Nurse Racthed could simply insinuate he was an alcoholic, and his diagnoses would be thrown in the trash!). Nurse Racthed is sort of the literary world's Joseph Stalin. Purposely omitting other remarkable differences from the movie, I shall end my review. All I can say is, read the book, and of course, watch the movie, it certainly won't change your life for the worse(although I can't say for sure if it will change your life for the better).	2000-12-26
US	50961351	R4TQFSG1E7RN7	0877285470	360002059	The Spear of Destiny: The Occult Power Behind the Spear which pierced the side of Christ	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Fabulous book, but is it truth, ot fiction?	Trevor Ravencroft's &quot;Spear of Destiny&quot;, is such a bizarre book, it defies explanation. Rather than just think of Hitler as some lunatic who gained power because of the lack of support Stalin gave to the social-democratic party in Germany, Ravencroft, through an intermediary, who supposedly came into contact with Adolf Hitler while he was in Vienna, has came up with the idea that Hitler, was actually a pawn, in the good ol' battle, of &quot;good vs. evil&quot;.<br />This intermediary, an individual with the last name Steiner(it's been a while since I read it, and can't remember his first name), studied at a bookstore in the backstreets of Vienna. While studying at this bookstore, Steiner encountered an individual who looked truly &quot;demonic&quot;. This individual, who you may have surmised by now, was Adolf hitler. After some time, Steiner looked at one of the books Hitler had looked at, and their was inscriptions on the book, notably, one that had something to do with the &quot;anti-christ&quot;(I think it was signed in blood or something). It may not seem as suspenseful, reading it on Amazon, but at the time, the passage describing this made a huge impact on my thinking. The passage I described just broaches the content of this book. &quot;The Spear of Destiny&quot;, covers the entire World War Two era, and relics that Hitler sought, such as the Holy Grail, The Spear of Destiny(which reportedly peirced the side of Christ), and also the illustrious subterannean people's, the Agarthans, and Shambhallans. Fans of David Hatcher Childress, Graham Hancock, and Anne Rice, will find this book extremely interesting. &quot;The Spear of Destiny&quot;, is a book that is defined in the occult section, and rightly so. It seems like a bunch of &quot;crackpot&quot; theories that Ravencroft has developed, but if a single one of his ideas is true, then we as humans, need to revise our present stance on the Third Reich, Religion, Reincarnation, and of course, Jesus Christ.	2000-11-08
US	50961351	R1EW9QVYZ4G211	039309040X	574896906	The Marx-Engels Reader (Second Edition)	Books	5	99	113	N	N	Exquisite collection of Marx's writings.	If you're a person that is presently trying to decide where you should start out in your study of Marxism, this book is probably where you &quot;should&quot; start. The Marx-Engels reader has every conceivable work that should be read by any prospective Communist, or anti-Communist. It's all here, the Communist Manifesto, Capital Volume 1, the 18th Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte, the origin of family, private property and the state, and so on, and so on. <br />The format of the book has the writings of Marx-Engels in such a way, that a person can see the development of their ideas with, at the very least, some degree of efficiency. From the greed of the borgeoisie and the petty-borgeoisie, to the struggle of proletariat and the lumpen-proletariat. For a proletarian such as myself, this is the next best thing to purchasing Marx's collected works(it took me forever just to afford the extraordinary cost of Lenin's collected works). Currently, the ebb in revolutionary Marxism seems to indicate Marx was completely false in his description of Capitalism as a decadent system, but the fact is, Marxism is still a political force(whether &quot;Cold Warriors&quot; want to admit it or not), with prominent intellectuals such as Stephen Jay Gould and Cornel West being a few indivuals who are proponents of the ideaology. For a person who takes the time to look at the statistics, the middle class is completely vanishing, the disproportionate amount of wealth in the hands of the borgeoisie seems analogous to Lenin's description of 1890's Russia(I am referring to his masterful work, &quot;New Economic Developments in Peasant Life, Volume 1, Collected Works&quot;, but in an advanced capitalist society such as the US, replace the word &quot;peasant&quot; with &quot;proletarian&quot;), the majority of the population are exponentially less prosperous than the minority of the population.<br />To conclude, any educated person, whether they be right-wingers, left-wingers, or extremists, shouldread this book. With the surprising success of Gennady Zyuganov in Russia, the very large socialist movement in the US, and of course, with the most populous country on Earth being a Communist nation, a rudimentary understanding of Marxism should be &quot;necessary&quot;. In addition to the &quot;Marx-Engels&quot; reader, a person should read some of Lenin's more notable works, such as &quot;What is to be Done?&quot;, &quot;Who the Friends of the People are, and how they fight the social democrats&quot;, and &quot;State and Revolution&quot;.	2000-10-22
US	50961351	R16IIXIMMQVG6I	0873488547	200153750	Problems of Everyday Life: Creating the Foundations for a New Society in Revolutionary Russia	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very superb compilation.	Leon Trotsky, the founder of the Red Army, commisar of the Russian army and navy, not only was a brilliant politician, he was also a brillian journalist. Evidence of his journalistic prowess is the wonderful compilation of Trosky's writings &amp; speeches, &quot;Problems of Everyday Life&quot;. The title would suggest that he is to some degree a philosopher, but as he writes early in the book, the opinions stated in the book are by no means original.<br />In this particular work, Trotsky describes a large spectrum of subjects that people in his position(arguably one of the most powerful politicians of the twentieth century), would have considered insignificant. The name of some of the chapters provides a glimpse of what I am talking about. Here is a name of a chapter in Part I, &quot;Vodka, the Church, and the Cinema&quot;.  In this chapter, Trotsky states that as opposed to abolishing religion by force, the state should persuade individuals to leave their religious sect for more realistic alternatives(and in this case, he says the cinema is a solid alternative). Another name of a chapter is, &quot;the struggle for cultured speech&quot;. In this chapter, Trotsky says the Russian language likely has the most profane and disgusting terms of any language(clearly he didn't know English to the extent he thought!), and he provides a program that could be used to eliminate the usage of such disgusting terms. In another chapter, which presently eludes my mind, Trotsky explains why individuals should opt for cremation, as opposed to Christian burials.<br />Conversely, the book is sectioned off into four parts, 1.Problems of Everyday Life, 2.Education and Culture, 3.Science and Technology, 4.The Materilist Outlook. And as the name of the sections would suggest, the book is rich in opinions &amp; observations. To a potential reader, I would definitely suggest this very insightful work, it's the equivalant of reading a book on etiquette, science, literature, etc, by a real genius(similar to Einstien's &quot;Ideas and Observations&quot;). Even if you disagree with Trotsky's materialist outlook on life, and his theory of permanent revolution, read this book, it will almost certainly make a positive impact on your relations with friends, relatives, and of course, adversaries.	2000-10-19
US	50961351	RN0CFXTD71PHQ	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Definitive account of American holocaust	When educated people's attempt to ascertain which political system has  persecuted the most people's, they mechanically answer Nazi Germany, or  some, even mention Soviet Russia(which was really Stalinist Russia, any  idea of a &quot;Soviet&quot; Russia died with the deportation of Trotsky in  1929). For proof, they point out the persecution of religious sects(Jews,  in Germany and Russia), and entire classes(the Kulak in Russia, which was  such a loose term, the title &quot;Kulak&quot; could pertain to anybody!).  But these supposedly educated person's, overlook the history of the United  States.<br />The opening chapter of Zinn's history, describes a virtual  utopia, a classless society, of Native Americans, in what is now described  as the &quot;West Indies&quot;. These harmless, and by the standards of  15th century Europe, barbaric people, never developed any of the amenitie's  of Europe, such as &quot;property&quot;, or &quot;currency&quot;,  essentially, they were what Lenin and Marx would describe as  &quot;Socialists&quot;. Next, Zinn describes the arrival of a person,  Christopher Columbus, who upon seeing this classless society, and seeing  how harmless they were, thought of one purpose for them, &quot;Slave  Labour&quot;! As opposed to developing diplomatic relations with these  people's, Columbus massacred them by the thousands, for his capitalistic  greed, and of course, the glory of the &quot;Monarchy&quot;. This American  holocaust(an American Holocaust which goes on to this day!) was within  &quot;twenty years&quot; of the arrival of Western Europeans into the  &quot;New World&quot;.<br />Obviously, the American Revolution never occured  until 1776, but Columbus began a trend, that didn't stop until perhaps the  late 1970's(and if a person takes the cases of Mumia Abu-Jamal and Leonard  Peltier into consideration, it's still going on), this trend is the  &quot;persecution&quot; of minorities on the North American continent. Zinn  writes how the US government introduced &quot;Biological Warfare&quot;, in  the form of blankets, presented as gifts to Native Americans, that were  contaminated with &quot;Small Pox&quot;. Zinn describes the persecution of  Negroe Slaves, which number in the millions. Zinn describes the numerous  broken treaties between the US government, and Native Americans(although  I'm partially Native American, I don't let this fact obstuct my opinion,  Trotsky was Jewish by origin, yet, never intervened on their part), such as  the seizure of the Black Hills in the 1800's, the seizure of Reservation  lands that, &quot;GASP&quot;, has some value, such as the Colville  reservation in north-central Washington, and the recent attempt by  Washington State Republicans to eliminate Native American soverignty by  &quot;force&quot;! Obviously, Zinn doesn't stop at the oppresed Native  Americans, and African Americans, he also describes the Asian American  &quot;concentration camps&quot; set up as recently as fifty years ago  during World War Two! For the sake of acceptance from the supposedly  &quot;liberal&quot; media, Zinn probably holds back a little when  describing America's history, I am absolutely certain that the history of  the US, is infinitely more atrocious and despicable than what he  describes.<br />To escape the hypocrisy, and bankruptcy, of American  intellectualism, a person &quot;must&quot; read this book. The media, and  prominent intellectuals, renounce individuals who &quot;deny&quot; the  &quot;Nazi&quot; and &quot;Soviet&quot; holocausts, but one must ask(once  they understand American history)&quot;why aren't individuals who deny the  American holocaust, which surpasses the German and Russian holocausts  exponentially, scrutinized?&quot; An example of an American holocaust  &quot;denier&quot;, is a person who says, &quot;I don't feel guilty about  the fact my ancestors annihlated entire races, or about the slavery of  African Americans, because a previous administration &quot;apoligised&quot;  for it&quot;. Once a person reads this book, they will feel disgusted about  the &quot;hidden&quot; American history, that their reactionary professors  and teachers never told them about. I couldn't possibly recommend any other  book on the market above this one, I give it 10 stars, as opposed to 5.	2000-09-13
US	50961351	R9NIMV795V920	0871136503	897589940	Americans No More	Books	5	28	85	N	N	Highest Possible Rating!	Because I have always been a fan of science fiction, and slop shod writing by Martin Bormann and Heinrich Himmler wannabees, I absolutely loved this  book. In Georgie Geyer's isolated and desolate household, where she has  absolutely no contact with the outside world, she has concoted the theory  that immigrants are the reasons for the cultural and intellectual poverty  that permeates American society. But what seems to allude her mind is the  fact that America has always been a decadent country, with a tradition of  annihlating races and cultures on a scale that Adolf Hitler could only  dream of.<br />Reminiscent of Hitler's idea of Aryans, Geyer believes that the  United States was once a culturally rich, and considerate nation, well, I  guess in her elitist community, the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's and  70's never happened. If America was always such a great country before  immigration became uncontrollable, why is it that African Americans, Native  Americans, Asian Americans, and Hispanic Americans had to fight  for basic  human rights, that should have been granted years ago with the publication  of the declaration of independence and the bill of rights. I must commend  Geyer for using an age-old Stalinist tactic of placing the blame for your  own incompetence on the down trodden minorities. To clarify, Stalin, blamed  the Kulak, and the Trotskyists for the failure of his vaunted 5-year plans,  even though the Stalinist bureacracy was the real reason for failure. In  the tradition of Uncle Joe Stalin, Geyer has placed blame for the failure  of the American Dream(the equivalant of Stalin's ridiculous 5-year plans,  both are virtually un-attainable), on immigrants, specifically hispanics,  as opposed to the corrupt and inefficent US government.<br />The population  projections for the year 2000 are: whites 71.5%, African Americans 12.2%,  Hispanics 11.8%, Native Americans 0.7%, Asian Americans 3.8%. Which brings  me to my next point. The idea that 72% ofthe United States population is  exempt from the responsibility of their own mediocrity, seems to be a  ridiculous idea. Immigrants are in fact(contrary to what Geyer believes),  the backbone of the United States. Just ask people who are in the  agriculture business. Because many of the immigrants are not citizens, the  land owners(people in agriculture), can exploit immigrant labor, and pay  them less than minimum wage. And once their growing season is over(fall  &amp; winter), they can turn the immigrants into INS(which likely equals  deportation), and turn a nice profit by not paying their workers an annual  salary. Or you can ask the managers of hotel chains, where their principle  employees usually originate, it's a sure bet that it's not the United  States. The jobs that immigrants &quot;steal&quot;, from American citizens,  are jobs that could never be filled by American citizens(due to laziness  and prejudices). I could not in good conscience, recommend this  &quot;wonderful&quot;, and &quot;delightful&quot; work of scholarship,  because it is likely not worth the lumber that it is printed on.	2000-08-30
US	50961351	RE8TKUNPXSKJ0	0446602280	638210143	No One Here Gets Out Alive	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Superb Biography!	Other reviewers have written that Jerry Hopkin's biography of Jim Morrison is a good &quot;rock biography&quot;, but I believe this book is much more  than just a rock bio(when I think of a rock bio, I think of same lame book  about a boy band). &quot;No one Here gets out alive&quot; is a story about  the greatest poet, and songwriter of the twentieth cetury. It is a story so  immensely interesting that no other book that I have read even  &quot;rivals&quot; it's quality.<br />Now many may wonder why a book about  &quot;some rock n' roll&quot; guy should be of interest. Well, it should be  of interest, because Jim Morrison lived through an era of immense  upheaval(mid to late 1960's), and was a true artistical genius. The six  studio albums released by &quot;The Doors&quot;, is truly not indicative of  the genius of Jim Morrison. The only way a person could get a sense of how  intellectually and artistically advanced to the rest of us Jim Morrison  truly was, they must read &quot;this&quot; book.<br />By reading this book,  you will understand why a relatively educated person such as myself, would  claim that Jim Morrison was the preeminent artistical genius of the  twentieth cetury(over people such as Ernest Hemingway, Pablo Picasso, and  Andy Warhol). The potential reader will come accross Jim Morrison's  encounter at the age of four or five, with an automobile accident, where  one of the occupants soul's apparently entered his body. Many question the  validity of this story, but I feel that it could be true. Why else would he  have been such a bizarre person, who comes around maybe once every  millenium? He was raised in the same atmosphere as Arizona senator John  McCain(McCain and Morrison's fathers were both Admirals in the Navy), and  John McCain seems absolutely nothing like Jim Morrison. In addition, the  reader will discover the truly strange lifestyle Jim Morrison led in High  School. While other students were partying amd going to dances, he was  reading the works of Arthur Rimbaud, Jack Kerouac, Friedrich Nietzsche, and  James Joyce. Simultaneously, he had very few &quot;real&quot; friends in  High School, the people who he did hang out with, said that sometimes,  while they were driving around Arlington, Virginia, he would ask to be let  out of the car, and would just dissappear thereafter. Now these are just a  few of the interesting stories presented in &quot;No One Here Gets Out  Alive&quot;, there is such a multitude of interesting points in the Lizard  King's life(such as Jim's meeting with Ray Manzarek on Venice beach), that  I'm absolutely certain Hopkins overlooked many of them in his book. If you  must read one book this fall, I would recommend that you read this one,  because it is extraordinary, to say the least.g the works of Arthur Rimbaud, Jack Kerouac, Friedrich Nietzsche, and  James Joyce. Simultaneously, he had very few &quot;real&quot; friends in  High School, the people who he did hang out with, said that sometimes,  while they were driving around Arlington, Virginia, he would ask to be let  out of the car, and would just dissappear thereafter. Now these are just a  few of the interesting stories presented in &quot;No One Here Gets Out  Alive&quot;, there is such a multitude of interesting points in the Lizard  King's life(such as Jim's meeting with Ray Manzarek on Venice beach), that  I'm absolutely certain Hopkins overlooked many of them in his book. If you  must read one book this fall, I would recommend that you read this one,  because it is extraordinary, to say the least.	2000-08-28
US	50961351	R1EO4DC44V910Z	0932813070	491214911	Lost Cities of China, Central Asia and India (The Lost City Series)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Excellent Travel Book!!!!!	Of all of David Hatcher Childress's books, this has to be the most  informative(or least informative, depending on your perspective!). He  describes to us, the reader, many of the interesting stories he has come  across traveling through, among other places, Nepal, Red China, Tibet,  Indiana, and the Oriental Express. In addition, Childress provides a nice  bibliography in the back of the book, to show many sceptics(people such as  myself), that he didn't concoct many of the far-fetched stories he tells in  his book from his highly imaginative mind. He explains many theories that  others have provided to the public, such as the Great White Brotherhood,  Agartha, Shambala, the large Earthen Pyramid in China, and the Silk  Road.<br />He doesn't vouch for the credibility of any of the stories, so a  person can't really fault him for telling us what he has discovered through  his travels. Since many people can't afford to travel to the places he  describes(although I can, I won't, it seems very dangerous when you don't  understand any of the local dialects), the reader will just have to take  his word for what it's worth(and the fact he has become quite wealthy off  of his 'Lost Cities' series, means his word must be worth something!). I  read this book while on vacation in Scottsdale, AZ, a few years ago, and  the fact I still remember it should say something about the quality of  writing! If you're ever on vacation, this is probably the most interesting  book you could find, I highly recommend this book.	2000-08-18
US	50961351	R35JYFBAFDTGA1	0684822938	52608699	Trotsky: The Eternal Revolutionary	Books	1	23	55	N	N	Very poorly written bio of a great man	Attempting to make the most interesting political figure of the twentieth century seem absolutely boring would be quite an obstacle for most people, especially when you have access to the Soviet Presidential Archive, but Dmitri Volkogonov has somehow achieved this task with flying colors. The  historian Isaac Deutscher wrote a three-volume biography of Leon Trotsky in  the 1950's, and his writings were far superior to this biography of Trotsky  by Volkogonov, which was written within the past decade!<br />The playright  Edvard Radzinsky had the same access to the Presidential Archive that  Volkognov had, yet his biography of Stalin was one of the most informative  books I have ever read. Perhaps Volkogonov attempted to take advantage of  the newly established market economy in Russia by producing as many books  as he could(at the expense of research and lucidity of writing), and after  they attained a respectable amount of success, he walked away with all the  money(of course he died in 1995, so I guess his family now is now taking  the money). He tells the reader everything they could have found  elsewhere(even on Microsoft Encarta!), such as Trotsky's birth in Yanavka  in 1879, the Russian Social Democratic split in 1903, his first encounter  with Lenin, his role as the founder of the Red Army, etcetera, and  etcetera. This is all fine if you're not familiar with Trotsky life, but  it's not fine if the author has access to as exclusive as documents as the  Presidential archive. A prospective reader would have expected a book that  claims to be a &quot;breakthrough reinterpetration&quot; of Trotsky to live  up to it's name, but I found that it almost certainly didn't. Although [this] is a good price for a Hardback book with a dustjacket, I would still  recommend that you just look at MSN Encarta's description of Trotsky, you  learn all of the same stuff that Volkogonov somehow crammed into 488  pgs(maybe this is what he did to write the book, who knows?). Edvard  Radzinsky has written books about Rasputin, Nicholas II, and Stalin, so  there's always the  possibility that he'll write a biography of Trotsky,  and maybe even Lenin(tasks which would undo all of the damage that  Volkogonov has done to the prestige of the Presidential Archive).	2000-07-24
US	50961351	R3O2KENRQXZWI6	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Clearly, the definitive account of Joseph Stalin.	In addition to being a masterful playwrite, Edvard Radzinsky is also a truly gifted writer. He, like no other biographer of Stalin has done thus far, did not believe all of the myths that surround Joseph Stalin, such as  the idea that Stalin was a paranoid schizophrenic, that Stalin was an  intellectual bantamweight who paled in comparison to Lenin and Trotsky, and  that Leon Trotsky was closer to Lenin than Stalin could ever have been.  Radzinsky's biography does justice to perhaps the greatest politician who  has ever set foot on Planet Earth. And living through Stalinism, he is more  qualified to write a biography of Stalin than any American such as Robert  Conquest, Adam Ulam, Robert Tucker, or Richard Lourie could ever be.   <br />Radzinsky gerneralizes Stalin's life into three distinct periods, that  of Soso(the young and innocent Joseph Djugashvili, who his mother hoped  would become a clergyman), Koba(the terrorist, who acted as Lenin's right  hand man, doing all of the real work for the Bolshevik party, the type of  work that an idealist such as Trotsky could never do), and Stalin(the  ruthless politician, who had no problem with annihlating political  opponents by any means necessary). The reader comes to understand a fact  that would seem self evident to most people, but doesn't realy resonate  easily in their minds, that Stalin epitomized the Leninist idea. Many would  like to believe that Stalin betrayed the Russian Revolution, by ending the  NEP, by annihlating the men who were essential to the success of the  October coup(Trotsky, Antonov-Anseeko, Tomsky), and by insitigating class  warfare on an unprecedented scale. But I think Radzinsky's book pretty much  shatters this notion.<br />Many Trotskyists point to &quot;Lenin's will&quot;  as proof that he did not want Stalin to replace him as the maximium leader  of the USSR, but as Radzinsky points out, none of the leaders wanted to  make Lenin's will public, Lenin wrote a negative sketch of every  prospective leader(Lenin wrote Trotsky was arrogant, Stalin was too rude,  he say Bukharin was the party's favorite, and the foremost theorist[but in  the next line, he says Bukharin doesn't understand dialectics!]). Of  course, Radzinsky provides an interesting scenario where Lenin left a will,  ordering the demotion of Stalin from the post of General Secretary, in his  office, but before his wife Nadezhda Krupskaya, or Leon Trotsky could find  it, Stalin found, and falsified it. In addition, many Trotskyists believe  that Lenin had a more favorable opinion of Leon Trotsky than Joseph Stalin,  which as Radzinsky points out, is absolutely absurd. Lenin, like Stalin,  hated Trotsky, which is why Lenin encouraged Stalin to promote  anti-Trotskyist feelings within the Bolshevik party. Although I feel  Trotsky was more intelligent than anyone in the Bolshevik party, I don't  really buy the idea that the Bolsheviks would accept a man who feuded with  them for roughly fifteen years.    <br />After reading this book, I felt even  more respect for Leon Trotsky(I already thought he was the preeminient  genius of the twentieth century[excluding men of science like Albert  Einstein and Stephen Hawking of course!]), for overlooking the fact Lenin  despised him, and keeping up the good fight until one of Stalin's GPU  agents murdered him in 1940. And I also came to respect the genius of  Joseph Stalin, he politically(and literally) destroyed more intellectual  opponents, such as Lev Kamenev, Gregory Zinoviev, Leon Trotsky, Nikolai  Bukharin, and of course the old man Lenin himself. A person will not  understand the reasons behind the terror that Russians lived under for 30  years until they read this book, you will no longer believe the ridiculous  myths that American biographers of Stalin have concocted, Stalin was an  incredibly gifted politician(and was almost certainly not psychotic as many  have suggested!), why else would he have ruled the first workers ands  peasants state for thirty years? This book will make any American  appreciate the ruthlessness of Stalin's henchmen, Malenkov, Beria, and  Molotov, for preventing medical attention for Stalin after the stroke he  suffered in 1953(he likely would have lived if he would have received  medical attention immediately), because had Stalin lived for at least  another ten years, Americans would likely be living under the banner of  Stalinism right now.	2000-07-24
US	50961351	RIFWHUABW4A2N	0300069197	225827604	The Unknown Lenin: From the Secret Archive (Annals of Communism Series)	Books	3	24	76	N	N	Disappointing.	Reading the editorial reviews of this book, I expected to find an epithany on every page, but instead, I came away angry at the fact I spent money for it. The title of the book, 'The Unknown Lenin', implies that what it  contains has not been hinted at or stated in other publications. Contrary  to the title, 'The Unknown Lenin', contains information already alluded to  in other books, such as the Bolshevik's acceptance of monies from the  German government, Trotsky's insignificance following his brilliant  performance during the October Revolution, Lenin's ruthlessness during the  Russian Civil War, Lenin's &quot;supposed&quot; anti-semitism, Bukharin's  incompetence as a politician, etcetera, and etcetera.<br />Regardless of the  fact Richard Pipes is a rabid anti-Communist, the archival information  represented in &quot;The Unknown Lenin&quot; is not devestatingly  incriminating to Lenin's image(unless of course the image is the official  charicature of Lenin represented in official Soviet biographies of him!).  The fact the Bolsheviks accepted monies from the German Government does not  mean Lenin was a German agent, he was simply following Necheyev's  Revolution catechism, specifically, &quot;...at all times and in all places  the revolutionary must obey, not his personal impulses, but only those  which serve the cause of the Revolution&quot;. Certainly, Trotsky's genius  has been recognized by most people, but only a fool would believe Lenin  would openly embrace a man who feuded with him for more than fourteen  years, and called Lenin a 'dictator', and the next 'Robespierre'. In  addition, Pipes attempts to inveigle the reader into believing Lenin was a  bloodthirsty madman, because he ordered mass executions during the Russian  civil war, as numerous authorians have stated, Civil wars are significantly  different from conventional wars, the rules of war established at the  Geneva convention do not neccesarily apply. And if I'm not mistaken, the US  cavalry murdered hundreds of defenseless native Americans at Wounded Knee  in the 1890's, rougly thirty years after the US civil war(where exactly are  the books admonishing Capitalist crimes during the past three  centuries?[Communism has recieved a thorough admonishment with such trash  as 'the Black Book of Capitalism' and 'the Rise and Fall of the Soviet  Empire']). 'The Unknown Lenin' doesn't provide any new information on  Lenin's excesses, as the title would suggest, but it does provide the  reader with insight into Lenin's writing style, such as the format of his  letters, and memos, a fact which is somewhat informative. In conclusion, I  would recommend this book if you're purchasing the paperback version(it's  only about $15), and if you can find an inexpensive HB version, but I  wouldn't recommend purchasing the $32 HB, it's honestly not worth the  investment, although it is a good shelf filler!	2000-07-16
US	50961351	R1ET1DJGDMAT41	0898152437	610346138	Barbeque'N With Bobby: Righteous, Down-Home Barbeque Recipes by Bobby Seale	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Left-Wing Radicals gotta eat!	Anyone who looks at this book will likely be expecting some sort of writings on left-wing radicalism. But that's not what this book is about at all, true, it was written by the co-founder of the Black Panther Party,  Bobby Seale, but what he does in 'Barbecue 'N with Bobby', is enlighten us  connoiseurs of fine food with barbecue recipes. The recipes are  magnificent, and he even tells us some excellent tips on sauces and other  types of delacacies. I honestly must stress moderation when using the  recipes(before I bought the book I weighed 165 lbs, but now I've bloated up  to almost 200lbs!, Bobby's great recipes certainly had something to do with  my degeneration into a bloated carbon copy of Che Guevara). If you like  barbecues, or like food in general, purchase this book immediately.	2000-07-01
US	50961351	R2ULNB157GL7KF	0873482220	652999319	Leon Trotsky Speaks	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Attests to Trotsky's genius.	If you're reading this review, you probably already own, or have read some of Trotsky's writings. Which means I don't have to expound to you his genius as a theorist and literary critic. What I will do is explain how  this book further displays Trotsky's remarkable abilities.<br />Most educated  people have a rudimentary knowledge of Trotsky's life, and are well aware  of the fact he was one of the greatest orators of the twentieth century.  But what 'Leon Trotsky Speaks' does, is succintly show the reader  &quot;why&quot; Trotsky was a great orator. 'Trotsky speaks' is an  anthology of Trotsky's speeches from the first Russian Revolution of 1905,  to his years of exile in the 1930's. When I opened the book, I was  absolutely dumbfounded by the incredible length of his speeches, every  speech of his would take hours to recite, which is remarkable, the longest  I can give a speech before having my voice go hoarse is about half-an hour.  Not only were his speeches long, they are interesting, just reading the  speeches, I realize why audiences were captivated by his words. Although I  write from a biased position, being a Trotskist, I highly recommend this  book, not only will it improve your understanding of Trotsky's genius, it  will also give an aspiring speechwriter a flawless orator to emulate.	2000-06-30
US	50961351	R3ZMXVLCAN6AG	0380727668	158966338	Live from Death Row	Books	5	25	42	N	N	Attests to the reactionary nature of the American popuation	After reading this truly moving book, I have become disillusioned with the state of race relations in the US, not to mention the judicial system. Abu-Jamal, and Peltier in his book 'Prison Writings', have given flawless  testimonials of the racism that is evident to 99% of minorities, and  perhaps evident to about 10% percent of whites. In his book, Abu-Jamal  asserts his innocence, which most evidence supports, quite eloquently. He  also describes the harrowing lifestyle that he leads while on death row,  such as the always constant danger of being murdered by a fellow inmate,  and the omnipresent realization that he has no chance of ever leaving  prison alive.  The fact a high government official, and a former  Presidential candidate, like Gary Bauer can generalize a truly tragic  figure such as Abu-Jamal as a cop killer is sad. Saying something as  blatantly bigoted comes easy to most people, but I can't comprehend how a  person could say such a thing. And as recent events show, Abu-Jamal will  most likely share the fate of fellow innocent victim, not to mention  minority, Gary Graham. <br />Not only would I recommend Abu-Jamal's book, I  would recommend that you join Refuse and Resist and other organizations  that support Mumia Abu-Jamal's, and fellow political prisoner Leonard  Peltier, immediate acquittal.	2000-06-30
US	50961351	R3Q1JJY5B0TWCN	0932813097	242605325	Lost Cities of North & Central America (Lost Cities Series)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Interesting book, regardless of factual errors.	David H. Childress's Lost City series has been one of the most interesting collection of books I have read in a long time, however, I really don't know how accurate many of his theories are. Even many minor statements he  makes, such as &quot;Native Americans can not grow facial hair&quot; are  fallacies, I know an abundance of Native Americans, and they're facial hair  rivals that of Che and Fidel. So when a guy gets facts as simple as these  garbled, how much credibility can he possibly have when he starts rambling  on about &quot;Smithsoniangate&quot;, and &quot;living dinosaurs&quot;.<br />I  find these possibilites as intriuguing as the next guy, but exactly where  is his proof. He cites some archival information from an Arizona newspaper  as proof that in the Grand Canyon in the early 1900's researchers found a  cave full of Egyptian Hieroglyphics and Egyptian artifacts, and the  Smithsonian museum came in and barricaded the area to this day(sort of like  Raiders of the Lost Ark). And he uses oral history as proof that there are  living Pteradactyls in the forests of Arizona. Perhaps Childress is correct  in these assertions, and the US gov't is suppressing evidence of his  relatively outlandish claims, then again, perhaps he's just trying to  exploit the gullibility of the American public. But judging from his  appearances on various talk shows, my guess is that he honestly believes  that the gov't is suppressing information on the esoteric subjects he  discusses in his books, of course this doesn't neccessarily mean that he's  correct in these claims. I suppose that Childress's writings are extremely  interesting, whether they are complete fabrications or are truisms. Reading  this book certainly won't make you a better person, but it will force you  to question what the author is claiming(that the US gov't is involved in  clandestine activities of a paranormal nature, and that there are living  prehistoric creatures), and will almost definitely force you toponder what  the US gov't plans to accomplish by suppressing ancient history(from my  perspective they recieve no incentive by suppressing info that would link  the Egyptians with North America). If you have a relatively large amount of  time on your hands, I would definitely recommend this book, it makes you  question the &quot;accepted&quot; history of the North American continent,  but it also frustrates the reader with the lack of viable evidence to  support his outrageous suggestions.	2000-06-28
US	50961351	R1FR328B0DDSCJ	0805042024	47858690	Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions: Second Edition (Owlet Book)	Books	5	12	32	N	N	Changed the way I view life.	Had this book been published prior to 1917, the Bolsheviks would never have overthrown our government. Being one of the founders of Menshivism, I was not aware of many of the OUTRAGEOUS ACTS and EVERYDAY REBELLIONS, that  this superior intellect Steinem outlines in her wonderful book. My  erstwhile colleagues, Lenin and Stalin, are quite right when they say  Steinem could have suggested other methods of insurrection, such as  pamphlets, or manifestoes, but regardless of this mssing element, I found  her book to be very entertaining.  Before reading this book, I felt a sense  of dejection, I couldn't think of any OUTRAGEOUS ACTS AND EVERYDAY  REBELLIONS to display to my frinds and family, but then I browsed  Amazon.com, and found Steinem's book.  Now, my friends and family ask,  &quot;why do you act so outrageous everyday?&quot;, then I have to tell  them, &quot;because many of the tips that the superior intellect Gloria  Steinem showed me in her wonderful book&quot;.  If you're like the Martov  before reading this book, droll and inactive, then read this excellent work  of scholarship, and you will become like the martov after reading the book,  active and interesting.	2000-06-07
US	50961351	R14AYDXVC563A	039304923X	245419187	Karl Marx: A Life	Books	4	13	21	N	N	Well written biography.	Considering the obvious fact that there are absolutely no biographies of Karl Marx that are still in print, Wheen's book was quite informative.  Mr. Wheen does not bore the reader with tedious descriptions of Marx's theories  on dialectical materialism, or the struggle of class vs. class.  <br />Wheen  describes to the reader the real Karl Marx, the Marx who had a few of his  children die because of disease, the Marx who struggled to earn enough  money to put food on the table for his children( yet, when he got money,  spent the lot of it on borgoise tastes, such as servants, silverware, and  furniture).  Wheen also describes a fact that is clearly evident to every  mature adult on the planet, the &quot;Communist Manifesto&quot;, is in no  way analogous to the century we are living in, it is an interesting  historical document( much like the works of Lenin, Trotsky, and Mao), that  shouldn't be distributed as a plausible solution to issues that are  prevalent in contemperary society.  In a way, Wheen shows the reader that  political parties that claim to be &quot;Communist&quot;, such as the  incredibly ridiculous and laughable Communist Party of America, are  half-educated blockheads who have no real understanding of economics( or  politics for that matter). Wheen vividly describes Marx's relationship with  Friedrich Engels, Marx's main financial contributor, and the turmoil that  spread through Europe like wildfire in 1848.  Reading this book, Marx's  comes across as sort of an empreror without a kingdom, or a general without  an army(you know, a genius that is far ahead of his time, that people  presently don't understand).  If you would like a book that describes the  Marxist theory, this book might help a little, but it won't profoundly  impact your prevalent ideology, if you want a book about Marx's life and  his place in events during the nineteenth century, then this book is a MUST  HAVE.	2000-06-05
US	50961351	RMZ6FEOEHBCFO	0393313271	84883111	Fidel Castro	Books	4	7	18	N	N	Excellent Bio!	Prior to reading Quirk's biography of Fidel Castro, I had developed a vehement hatred for Communist Cuba.  This hatred originated from anti-Communist propaganda I had experienced during middle-school, they said  Castro nearly started WWIII, and was a hoodlum who should have been taken  out a long time ago.<br />But then a few people I knew recommended Quirk's  biography of Castro, they also recommended two other fine bio's of Fidel,  one by Georgie Anne Geyer, and another by Tad Szulc.  I purchased the book,  and read it with a completely biased perspective.  But after reading the  book, I really began realize what my teachers had told me about Castro was  a complete fallacy.  Castro, contrary to popular opinion, was a man who had  the best interests of his people when taking power, and is not the  megalomaniacal tyrant that I had come to think of him as.  The author  intended to write a negative portrait of &quot;El Commandante&quot;, but  the author couldn't possibly conceal Fidel's vast achievements.  After  reading Quirk's book, I am completely convinced Fidel Castro is one of the  few genuine genius's of the Twentieth Century, belonging in the ranks of  Churchill, FDR, Lenin, and Trotsky.  I highly recommend this extraordinary  book.	2000-04-29
US	50961351	RM8V1VEYSZ48U	080707005X	478662413	Stalin: The Man and His Era	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Thought Provoking.	Certainly, any rational thinking American is completely flabbergasted by the atrocities Stalin commited in the very long twenty-four years he reigned in the Soviet Union. And naturally any thinking person would want  to know why a person would commit these atrocities.<br />Ulam's excellent  biography puts into perspective how a seemingly under-educated person such  as Stalin could fill the void left by a giant of a person like Lenin.  The  part of the book that is most insightful is the chapters describing the  power stuggle that took place &quot;after&quot; V.I. Lenin's death.  You  really start to understand how a gifted author and orator such as Leon  Trotsky lost the battle for Lenin's mantle to Stalin.  A person can even  begin to sypathize for Stalin, but then the author describes what happened  after Stalin became the maximum leader of the USSR in 1929.  Of course  everyone knows what happened after 1929, collectivization, purges, show  trials of Bukharin, Kamenev, and Zinoviev, and the assasination of Leon  Trotsky.  Ulam's book is quite lengthy, but it is well worth the read, I  would recommend this book to anyone.	2000-04-29
US	50961351	R2MJ5JMPC8LC4F	1566630274	128270724	Molotov Remembers: Inside Kremlin Politics	Books	2	15	34	N	N	Revisionist History by Stalin's &quot;yes-man&quot;.	Before reading this relatively expensive book, I tried to clear my mind of the fact Molotov was Stalin's lackey.  But after reading a dozen pages or so, it was clear that, even twenty years after Stalin's death, Molotov was  still a disciple of Joseph Stalin.  It is most evident in his description  of Leon Trotsky.  Molotov says that Trotsky never had any &quot;real&quot;  influence in the Soviet Union, saying he had no power during the Civil War,  and held no influence with V.I. Lenin, and says that Lenin only had respect  for Trotsky's excellent oratorical ability.  He even defecates Trotsky's  legacy further by saying Lenin would have done the same thing Stalin did to  Trotsky, expell him from the USSR, perhaps have him assasinated, had he  lived longer than 1924.  Molotov says that most of the founders of the  Soviet Union, Lenin, Bukharin, Kamenev, Zinoviev, etc., etc., feared and  hated Trotsky, and thought he might attempt a Bonapartist coup.  This book  deserved two stars, as opposed to one, because it could easily have been  titled &quot;Stalin Remembers&quot;, Molotov doesn't seem to display any  type of originality during the entire book, it really seemed to be Stalin  recounting his version of history.	2000-04-28
