US	50975754	R33843STX5DWT2	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Shocking...and Very Emotional	This review refers to the audio CD version narrated by the amazingly talented Jim Dale.<br /><br />First off, if you haven't had the pleasure of sitting with Jim Dale as he narrates J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, then you are most assuredly missing out on a very big treat. Dale creates voices...distinctive, animated, and sometimes downright \\"unusual\\" voices. He is as masterful at delivering the prose as Rowlings is at writing it. If you have a chance to grab this series from the library tape shelves, then do it! I promise you won't regret it. Listening to Jim Dale is like hearing a Broadway play. His performance is superb!<br /><br />About this latest edition - the only bad thing I can say is that it is too short! There are only 11 or 12 tracks to each CD as compared to 18 or sometimes 20 in the previous editions. The chapters seem short, as most of the storyline involves a look into Voldemort's past. As you begin listening to this it may seem as if Dumbledore is delivering a non-stop, completely irrelevant monologue, but all I can say is HANG ONTO EVERY WORD! The author is deftly laying down a series of events that culminate in a shocking, absorbing finale. This is one very gutsy book - it is very emotional and will stay with you long after it was over.  I can't really go into the plot - I don't like giving spoilers even if some other reviewers have done so. Suffice it to say that relationships blossom (with some hysterical antics); new supporting characters are added into the mix; there is a new \\"Defense Against the Dark Arts\\" teacher (and it's a shocker);  Voldemort's past is revealed (as is someone else's - and it relates to the title), Ron's little sister lets her hair down, and our favorite wizard grows up right before our eyes. This has been a truly gripping experience. Don't miss it.<br /><br />Cris Cunningham<br /><br />PS.  I want to add that before Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling, there was a book titled _Wizard's Hall_ by Jane Yolen. It was published eight years before the Potter series and although not as popular, is what I consider the FIRST truly amazing fantasy novel of this kind. Check it out. You;ll be shocked at the similarities.ries and although not as popular, is what I consider the FIRST truly amazing fantasy novel of this kind. Check it out. You;ll be shocked at the similarities.	2005-08-11
US	50975754	R3HNWMHBG05VDA	0696222507	130997571	Better Homes and Gardens New Cook Book, 75th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	50	52	N	N	A True Classic and Excellent All-Around Reference	This book comes in a very durable five-ring binder with full-color recipes. Each section has tabs with the food category (fish, cakes, cookies, meats, slow-cooker meals, etc), and in each section is another table of contents written specifically for that food category. There are also cooking tips splattered throughout the book which are very helpful for novice cooks. The meat section contains diagrams that show where each different cut of meat comes from. There are metric equivalents and emergency substituion guides. It seems to cover all the basic recipes, plus some...and the big bonus is a special section after the general index that lists all the special 75th Anniversary recipes.<br /><br />I honestly think this an absolutely fabulous cookbook -- if you like the BHG style. If you are not a current BHG subscriber, check out the magazine and the Better Homes website ([...]) and become acquainted with their recipes and content before you make your decision. I am a subscriber to the magazine, which is one of my top two favorites, so the book (I bought it sealed and never opened it prior to purchasing it) did not disappoint me in the least. This may well become your favorite cooking reference.<br /><br />My only advice is that if you are into gourmet recipes, this is definitely not the book for you. These are very simple, with a splash of elegance recipes. Nothing exotic here, just good ole down-home cooking.	2004-12-25
US	50975754	R1LNXLY58KSUUT	077832110X	436796983	On A Snowy Night	Books	4	44	49	N	N	Fun Holiday Reading	_On A Snowy Night_ contains two short stories that were originally novels -- \\"The Christmas Basket\\" and \\"The Snow Bride\\". You can look up both these titles to get an idea of the plot for each. This book woudld make a fabulous holiday gift for anyone you would like to introduce to Debbie Macomber, or it would be nice to have on your own shelves if you missed the full-length versions of these stories.<br /><br />4 stars -- The Christmas Basket is the more entertaining of the two, but the humor in The Snow Bride makes up for its blandness. Getting two for the price of one is not such a bad deal either!<br /><br />Cris Cunningham	2004-12-22
US	50975754	R10OP4SF18SW34	1551667363	475927242	The Snow Bride	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Quick reading but lacks energy	\\"The Snow Bride\\" is the full-length version of the short story by the same name which first appeared in _On A Snowy Night_. The premise is worth exploring, a young, beautiful executive assistant leaves the comfort of her Los Angeles home and heads to Alaska to meet the man she has been corresponding with over the Internet for the past several months. She learns, through a series of coincidences, that he is not the person he appeared to be and unexpectedly falls in love with a brash, rugged pilot. All in all, the characters are sweet and delightful, (the male lead is very funny!) but their tale makes a better short story than novel.<br /><br />One plus is that Macomber writes wonderful romances without all the explicit language an graphic content that usually appears in this genre. Her characters and dialogue are usually fun, snappy and at times, very humurous (a quality not lost in main character Reid). Unfortunately, this story falls very flat. It is excruciatingly predictable and lackluster; having lost its zeal after the first two chapters. I like how one reviewer described it -- \\"cute\\". That about sums it up. It was dragging miserably, but still maintained its \\"cuteness\\" and humor.<br /><br />I say buy a used copy or preuse a library copy on a day when you're looking to fill some time with a quick read.<br /><br />3 and 1/2 stars.<br /><br />Cris Cunningham	2004-12-22
US	50975754	R1IAPTTC8GBVQ6	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	13	23	N	N	Michael Crichton takes on Global Warming and Eco- terrorists	State of Fear_ focuses on an environmental terrorist group that is wrecking havoc all over the world to bring more attention to the harmful effects of global warming. The topic is not new, but Crichton makes it work beautifully.<br /><br />Be forewarned, this is NOT light reading for a rainy Sunday afternoon. Laden with heavy scientific language and a mind-boggling array of graphs and footnotes, this is one of the most engrossing books I have ever read. I learned the equivalent of a college semester in the six hours it took me to read through this novel.  Nevertheless, Crichton see to make this \\"been there done that\\" topic work. He gives it a realism that most other works lack.<br /><br />Crichton is not shy about sharing his take on this whole global warming controversy. He seems to suggest that the media and science community are manipulating the information the general public receives about how global warming is REALLY effecting the earth in order to meet their own agendas. In a nutshell, much of what we hear is a bunch of hype. Now why doesn't this surprise me? The mere fact that most of us have already figured this out makes this book even more absorbing. True, it's deep into the technical stuff but it's presented in a compelling manner and incorporates realistic fictional characters and action.<br /><br />Give this one a try...it requires, and commands, your attention; but is sure to entertain anyone who is looking for a fresh, (albeit controversial) take on the whole global warming issue.<br /><br />Cris Cunningham	2004-12-19
US	50975754	R1MFMV9FY5SYWP	0486287955	850741862	Knights in Armor Paper Dolls (Dover Paper Dolls)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beautiful book	Wonderful details on all pages, however, my eager-to-learn daugters found the amount of cutting required to be a bit tedious. Nevertheless, if you are looking for an historical accurate rendering with a built-in activity to fill some time, you can't go wrong with this book. I suggest that teachers do the actual cutting before hand, laminate the figures, and store all the pieces the way you would a file folder game. This would certainly make play time much more enjoyable for the children.<br /><br />Enjoy!<br /><br />Cris Cunningham	2004-09-12
US	50975754	RLYU2GW0AQU0K	074320607X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Deliciously Haunting Tale	Six successful alumni are being honored at Stonecroft Academy's 20th reunion, and one of them is a cold-blooded serial killer known only as \\"The Owl\\". His motives are clear; he seeks revenge on seven former female classmates who ridiculed him unmercifully during his teen years.  There are only two still alive; Laura Wilcox, a flirtatious Hollywood actress who has seen better times, and Jean Sheridan, best-selling author, historian and college dean. No one has any idea that these two women are his latest targets.  Meanwhile, someone is sending eerie faxes to Jean regarding her daughter Lily, whom she secretly gave up for adoption almost twenty years ago. She feels Lily is in grave danger, but has no way of warning her. As Jean beings a race against the clock to find her daughter's true identity, she is unknowingly being hunted by a former classmate; a ruthless killer who wants her dead by the end of the weekend.<br /><br />Mary Higgins Clark has an amazing talent for creating spine-tingling nightmares just under the surface of everyday life. A high school reunion is one of those episodes of life most of us would just as soon want to forget. Reading this novel may make you think twice about how those old school days jokes can come back to haunt you. I like the style of this book, it's a slick departure from her usual \\"damsel-in-distress-protagonist\\" type books, and she creates a riveting psychological storyline that is played out by fascinating characters. My only complaints are minor ones - the editing could have been much better (too many typos) and the number of chapters could have been cut down drastically (96 + an epilogue - ugh!)<br /><br />Still, this is a not-to-be-missed novel by the reigning queen of psychological suspense.<br /><br />Enjoy!<br /><br />Cris Cunningham	2004-09-01
US	50975754	RMR56EJB8X477	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	4	9	N	Y	Worth the wait....	While controversy may still surround the subject matter of Rowling's books, she nevertheless delivers a literary masterpiece in the latest, greatest edition to her ever-popular series. This book is the biggest, and darkest, of them all, bringing our hero Harry closer to his ultimate encounter with the dark lord \\"he-who-shall-not-be-named\\". He must also face a wretched school administrator, an antagonistic house elf, and impotent magical government authorities. Luckily for Harry he has a host of loyal friends to help him through this maze of uncertainty.<br />I have read the book, and have listened to the sound recording featuring Jim Dale and if I had a choice, I would highly recommend that you purchase the CD or audio version. Dale is an extraordinarily talented voice actor. He brings each character to life in a humorous, energetic matter. Absolutely fabulous.<br />Cris Cunningham	2003-07-23
US	50975754	R3WUS41XNTPIN	1891898019	790350834	Scrapbooking for Kids, Ages 1 to 100	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Beginner Book	What I like most about this book is that it presents the basics of scrapbooking in a well-written, simplistic format. All of the essential elements that experienced adult scrappers use are introduced page-by-page on a beginner's level. There are also many lettering and die cut examples to use, as well as simple lay outs to jump start one's creativity. i would not classify this as a \\"kids\\" book, but rather a primer on the art of scrapbooking. Well written and very colorful (something kids of all ages can appreciate!).<br />Cris Cunningham	2003-01-24
US	50975754	R2HXG5V41NCWQX	0486999394	1290248	Calligraphic Ornaments CD-ROM and Book (Dover Electronic Clip Art)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	I agree with the Graphic Designer from Los Angeles...	And unfortunately I was looking for true clip art!  However, I must say that the ornaments presented are truly stunning, and can easily be used in paper crafting of any kind. I used this book to create labels for gifts and to address holiday envelopes. I am a novice desktop publisher and was not disappointed.<br />Cris Cunningham	2003-01-05
US	50975754	R11TAUC00J23GW	0806972157	679460850	Melt & Pour Soapmaking	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Very Helpful...	This was my first venture into the art of soapmaking and I could not have had a better mentor than Marie Browning. Filled with lavish photographs and detailed information, MELT &amp; POUR SOAPMAKING is my top pick for anyone who is interested in exploring this craft. There are many varied recipes featured throughout the book, beautiful photographs highlighting step-by-step what to do, and detailed information that adds more pleasure to an already fun experience. I was successful with every project I attempted (which is very rare indeed) and also utilized the author's suggestions on packaging my creations for gift giving. Needless to say, my creations were a big hit.<br />A sampling of the contents: Melt and Pour Recipes (which includes Molded soaps, Loaf-style soaps, Embedded soaps, Embossed soaps -- very easy and they look terrific -- and Double Molded soaps), Hand Milled Soaps, Bath Salts, Botanical Blends, Bubble Bath Recipes, Bath and Massage Oils recipes, Bath Powder recipes (email me for a delightful Rose Petal Milk Bath recipe I was inspired to create after working through this book), Fragrance Collections. A truly wonderful book and terrific resource.<br />.	2003-01-05
US	50975754	R2F337ZJ8RN3OO	B00006GF12	799846337	The Christmas Wish	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sweet Holiday Tale	A heartwarming story about a busy Manhattan executive who ventures back to his small hometown to revamp his deceased grandfather's real estate business. He is swayed by his grandmother to locate a mysterious woman who is believed to have had a special relationship with his grandfather when he was alive.  A truly beautiful story about romance, tradition and unfailing loyalty that takes place in a Currier and Ives-like location. The ending will knock your socks off and stay with you long after the book is finished.<br />FYI: The sequel is entitled _The Christmas Quest_.<br />Cris Cunningham	2002-12-30
US	50975754	R2XNLEDP03HN4Z	0312253486	991869571	The Janson Directive	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A masterpiece	If, like me, you have been waiting for that one spectacular posthumous work from the immortal master of international intrigue, then your patience has been richly rewarded. Since his death in March 2001, the first few offerings bearing his name were of the poor-to-bland variety. However, THE JANSON DIRECTIVE is pure, unadulterated, vintage Ludlum.<br />Security consultant Paul Janson, a retired Consular Ops covert operative, is suddenly thrown back into his former role when he is called upon to rescue Pete Novak, an international businessman, philanthropist and diplomat. Janson's mission eventually goes terribly wrong, and soon he is being targeted for death by the very same people who were once his allies, his former prot&eacute;g&eacute; being the assassin who seeks him out. If he wants to live, and save the man who once saved him, he must unravel a conspiracy that permeates the highest government powers.<br />What makes THE JANSON DIRECTIVE so brilliant is the myriad of detail which gives added color to the storyline. Sometimes the details were a bit to graphic for my taste, but I never once considered putting the book aside, even for a moment. It's true that the dialogue is more \\"electric\\" than Ludlum's previous work, however, the plot is just as complex and technical as any of his international conspiracies. The storyline, written prior to 9/11, is right out of the most recent headlines; a true Ludlum trademark. He always seems to know what will make tomorrow's news before it becomes news. Nevertheless, I am perplexed by the publisher's silence as to the true author of this work. Knowing who to give credit to would certainly satisfy my insatiable curiosity.<br />According to an article (The New York Sun,10/21/2002) which quotes Ludlum's longtime agent, Henry Morrison, the late author started this book during the early months of 2000 and finished it that fall. If true, this would account for the likeness this book has to the Bourne trilogy. However, the same article states that he 'almost\\" finished it. So which is it? I guess we'll never know.<br />Cris Cunninghamthat he 'almost\\" finished it. So which is it? I guess we'll never know. <br />Cris Cunningham	2002-11-05
US	50975754	R2W88HZSGTRME4	0609606751	349645052	Nina Campbell's Decorating Secrets: Easy Ways to Achieve the Professional Look	Books	5	26	28	N	N	An essential reference for every decorator	English designer Nina Campbell has rewarded us with yet another piece de resistance. Brimming with sumptuous photographs (all of which left me salivating), this book has quickly become my perennial favorite.  DECORATING SECRETS is robust in every area, not just a few, and seems to appeal to a wide audience.<br />This book is more than just tassels and fluff. Firstly, Nina makes it clear that she is a traditionalist. &quot;...I am not advocating the minimalist approach - anyone who knows my look would realize how alien that is to me...&quot; Secondly, her sage advice is for appropriate for every designer, regardless of budget limitations. If the photographs are not your speed, then pay strict attention to her words, you can adapt the ideas presented to a home of any size.<br />In essence, what makes this book stand out head and shoulders above the others is the combination of Nina's elegant writing, her down-to-earth presentation, inspiring ideas and -- the details, details, details! She deftly explains what a novice designer needs to know before tackling a project, and then walks through the process room by room.  She also addresses small spaces, a topic usually covered under separate titles. Most of the photographs are close-ups, which enables readers to catch specific details and replicate the looks most inspiring to them.<br />If you are confused by the myriad of decorating books on the market today, and are looking for that one book that you can use over and over again as a quick reference guide, this is one I would recommend hands down. I also suggest that you check out Nina's other book entitled The Art of Decoration. My copy is two years old and very tattered.<br />Cris Cunningham	2002-10-30
US	50975754	R3637RZXHH48SL	1890621390	558026343	Thimbleberries Autumn Accents (Thimbleberries Classic Country)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Puts You in a Harvest Mood	From the honey-gold cover with a picture of floating apple candles set amongst pumpkins and fallen leaves, to the carmel tone-on-tone jacket borders and pages, this book is a feast for the eyes. There are none of Lynette's usual quilting projects or instructions, just photograph after luscious photograph of terrific fall decorating and entertaining ideas.<br />The book consists of only three chapters entitled &quot;September Morning&quot;, &quot;October Gold&quot; and &quot;November Dusk&quot;, aptly named for the beginning, middle and end of the season. Of the many ideas presented, I enjoyed seeing how Lynette uses collectibles to make a personal statement, as well as how to use dried hydrangea and yarrow for beautiful floral accents, and edibles in your decorating scheme. The ideas for tablescapes were also inspiring, as well as my favorite - the big, stuffed swag Lynette uses to decorate her mantel. I intend to make one just like this for my own fireplace.<br />AUTUMN ACCENTS is sure to provide many &quot;ah-ha's&quot; for readers searching for ideas on how to put the finishing touches on their seasonal decorating. Some ideas are more practical than others, but for me, the entire book was pure autumn inspiration.<br />Cris Cunningham	2002-10-30
US	50975754	R3PAICIYQ1TN8Z	1580170501	23879659	Tea with Friends	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A Wonderful Book	TEA WITH FRIENDS is a terrific resource for those who need specific ideas for year round tea parties.  Each chapter suggests one theme party for each month of the year. Within each chapter is background information on the theme, a section entitled &quot;Setting The Scene&quot; in which the author gives suggestions on what service and accessories you could use, as well as ideas for centerpieces and music. She also includes a menu, a featured recipe and a craft project or activity relating to the theme,  My favorite is November's Victorian Afternoon Tea. Knight gives insightful background information on how tea became a British obsession during the reign of Queen Alexandria Victoria and the causes behind rise in the popularity of black tea, (one of the menu offerings she suggests). In essence, she not only makes menu suggestions, but she provides the background you need to understand why she is making these suggestions. She also includes an example of what an invitation for your November tea might look like. In &quot;Setting The Scene&quot; she lists excellent suggestions for accenting the table with Victorian charm, as well as detailed instructions on how to make a Victorian centerpiece. There are also music suggestions that would be appropriate for this setting. Knight also includes a full menu with a featured recipe for Watercress and Stilton sandwiches. Finally she incorporates detailed instructions on how to make lavender sachets. Sidebars tell about various traditions of the Victorian royal family. In just a few short pages, you have the background, recipes, serving ideas and special touches for a monthly theme tea party anytime of year.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who loves tea and is looking for simple, creative ways to share the pleasures of tea time with friends.<br />Cris Cunningham	2002-10-30
US	50975754	R13QRLP4724CWL	0688167519	808949642	Pleasures of Tea: Recipes & Rituals	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Great Pictorial Tribute	Victoria magazine's feature editor Kim Waller lavishes readers with a beautifully illustrated tribute to the world's most traditional beverage.  THE PLEASURES OF TEA is brimming with recipes, accoutrements, interviews, gorgeous pictorials of tea services from around the world, and my favorite tidbit - suggestions for how to combine tea time with reading time.  I was even pleased to see a quick picture of my own service -- &quot;Lady Carlyle&quot; by Royal Doulton. The book also contains fascinating information on the business of tea and a resource section listing salons and sources for tea goodies.<br />Overall this is quite an extraordinary book, one that I refer to often. I wouldn't suggest this as a first book for a novice, although its gorgeous photos and print would make it a lovely gift. There are others, such as TEA WITH FRIENDS that would make better first sources. Nevertheless, it is one of the best presentations of this wonderful pastime.<br />Cris Cunningham	2002-10-30
US	50975754	R1BNE90Z2X40FH	0821771302	543997618	The Cottage (Zebra Book)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sweet Love Story	THE COTTAGE is a book that explores the love that blossoms between a man and a woman, the true meaning of family, and new beginnings.<br />Widower Cale Wilder flies his Cessna through a raging thunderstorm over the Appalachian mountains of Georgia in search of his obstinate stepson Danny, who just ran away. Teenager Danny is still reeling after the death of his mother, and although Cale is the only father he has ever known, he has escaped to her hometown in search of his biological father. Cale has to crash land his plane in a nearby field and is rescued by the genteel Miranda Sinclair and her quirky friend Ruby. Miranda is the town's nurse practitioner and healer ( a term used loosely in this book and not covered in any depth). As she discovers Cale, and the tremendous losses he has endured, they begin a very special journey that frees them physically and emotionally.<br />I was initially attracted to this book because of its beautiful cover; a bucolic scene featuring a charming country cottage set in the middle of a luscious garden, and surrounded by a white picket fence; its open gate beckoning you to come in. Once I finished the book I realized that this cover is a perfect depiction of Miranda; a down-to-earth, quiet character of understated elegance. Contrast this sharply with her best friend and neighbor Ruby, a brash, outspoken woman who can handle a rifle better than most seasoned male hunters. The range of characters, their depth of emotions, and the wonderful depictions of life in the foothills of Georgia round off this sweet story. I should mention that a good portion of the story is quite predictable, but that does not take away from its emotional depth.<br />A stunning delivery by Sandra Steffen which bewitched me right from the beginning to the very shocking (well, maybe not so shocking!) end.<br />PS. You'll be able to figure out how this book ends long before you finish it, but trust me, you'll enjoy it anyway.	2002-10-29
US	50975754	R1HPT5QZRHGD0A	0736905189	69907024	Sandy's Tea Society: Delighting in Friendships Steeped in Love	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Delightful and fun...	I love this book! Consider this a tea party idea book delivered in narrative form. In the beginning we meet Sandy, who invites a few of her closest friends to join her Tea Society and host a tea of their own. They each have very different personalities, which provides inspiration for their party themes. Each chapter is dedicated to a character's tea party and is chock filled with recipes, decorating and hostessing ideas, as well as insights into their personal lives. This is a book I will surely treasure and pass on as gifts for the holidays. It is beautifully written and illustrated, and oh so clever!<br />Enjoy.	2002-10-11
US	50975754	RS03BDJG2XLB8	0613020685	17283141	Going To Town (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (My First Little House Picture Books)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Perfect Introduction to the Little House Series...	Adapted deftly from the Little House series made famous by Laura Ingalls Wilder, this gorgeous picture book tells of Laura's first day trip with her family from the Big Woods to the nearby town of Pepin Wisconsin. The writing is charming and warm, the typeface perfect for reading aloud or independently. The illustrations, inspired by Garth Williams' originals, are extraordinary...absolutely beautiful! I would not consider this adaptation to be a \\"dumbed down\\" version of the originals, nor it is too juvenile for older readers. Rather it is a perfect transition piece which lends itself to wonderful cuddling and conversation, both of which are important for developing strong readers no matter how old they may be.<br />I would also recommend the hardcover editions. They last longer through many readings and make reading aloud feel like a real treat.<br />Enjoy.	2002-10-11
US	50975754	RLV6EK07C608U	0152002278	261867744	Mean Soup	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Cute Way To Relieve Stress	Horace has had to deal with quite a bit today, and when he gets home from school he is definitely in a very, very bad mood; so bad in fact, that he \\"hisses\\" at his mother when she greets him at the door! After his temper tantrum (which really is adorable, not bratty!), his mother suggests that they make soup. Still feeling mean, Horace watches in astonishment as his mother finds an incredibly funny (and ingenious) way to lure him out of his bad mood.<br />Thoughtful, creative and beautifully illustrated, MEAN SOUP teaches children how to act out their anger and frustration in a positive, fun way. Don't just settle for a library copy of this book. It is definitely worth a buy. You will be reading it over and over again as a pleasant, subtle reminder to children who, like Horace, are having a tough time dealing with tough days!<br />Approximately 14 pages. One sentence and a beautiful illustration on each page. Some blends and sight words present...  The recommended reading level for this book is ages 4-8. I would say that perhaps advanced pre-school (read aloud - child should have good comprehension skills) to remedial 2nd is more like it. The main idea is for a varied audience, but certainly not the reading level.	2002-09-18
US	50975754	R16GB775XK5UJV	0312276885	840537150	The Sigma Protocol	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Final Work of The Master (or is it?)	Investment banker Ben Hartman is on vacation in Zurich when he recognizes his old college friend Jimmy Cavanaugh. Jimmy recognizes him also, but instead of offering a handshake and a warm hello, he pulls out a gun and uses Ben as target practice. In the mêl&eacute;e that follows, Cavanaugh, and many innocent bystanders, end up dead, and Ben is the prime suspect. When Ben attempts to find out why Cavanaugh was trying to murder him, he learns a family secret that forces him to relive a horrible tragedy. He also discovers, through circuitous means, that he is a suspect in a series of murders that take place around the globe. Investigating these cases is FBI Special Agent Anna Navarro. When their paths eventually cross they find their mutual interest is in working together so they can both stay alive.<br />SIGMA PROTOCOL has an intriguing plot premise. The buildup is riveting, the storyline is ingenious, but it falls flat in execution. The first third of the book reads like vintage Ludlum; an exciting, edge-of-your-seat page turner. Unfortunately, somewhere in the middle the story became uninspiring. Events seemed to drag on forever. It was almost as if there were an extra 200 pages in this book that needn't be there.  Ludlum had a way of storytelling that always kept you guessing. Nothing was fully explained. He forced us to draw our own conclusions while the plot was still unfolding. Here, there is nothing left to the imagination.<br />For those of us with no expectations, THE SIGMA PROTOCOL is a good read. It just doesn't have the snap, crackle or pop of a true Ludlum global thriller.<br />It's hard to believe that we will never see another complete work bearing his name (or will we? How many unfinished manuscripts were there, I wonder??) There was a time when he was the only master of his game. I shall miss him very much. Rest in peace.	2002-09-08
US	50975754	RJPX2B7P2O6YN	0451410300	1447963	The Second Assassin	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Original and Taunt...	In the summer of 1939 a group of high-level conspirators band together to ensure Germany's victory in the impending war. Their plan is to assassinate England's King George VI and Queen Elizabeth when they arrive for their planned tour in the US, thereby destroying any hope of an American-British alliance. John Bone is the Irish assassin hired to complete the plot. Pursuing him is are a female photographer and London detective, as well as a supporting cast of diverse and likeable characters.<br />THE SECOND ASSASSIN is a thoroughly researched and well-written historical thriller based on actual events. It is brimming with detail, riveting suspense, and real-life figures who lend a degree of authenticity to the storyline. The author painstakingly recreates the pre war era with meticulous detail and panache. Hyde delivers a bone chilling thriller worthy of 10 stars!	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R25C61S7XCYYKI	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A Hard One To Digest	RED RABBIT, loosely based on real-world events, revisits Jack Ryan's early CIA days in London, prior to his meteoric rise within the government ranks. He is debriefing KGB defector Oleg Zaitzev, who reveals a high-level Soviet plot to assassinate the Pope. This revelation pits Ryan against political enemies and allies which test his fortitude and put the balance of world power at stake.<br />True to form, Clancy hands us heavy doses of technical information, evidence of his genius for laborious research. I found this \\"regurgitation of knowledge\\" a bit hard to digest, considering that the fast-paced dialogue and relentless action he is known for is all but devoid from this book.<br />RED RABBIT is a valuable source of information, but can prove to be a formidable challenge, even for the most die-hard Clancy fan. It tends to read more like a 618-page documentary rather than a work of fiction.	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R19PI6IFT9E1H	0671034006	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great Beginning and Ending...	Father Tom Madden takes confession and is shocked to learn that the penitent has targeted his sister Laurent, for murder. He calls his best friend, FBI Special Agent Nick Buchanan for help. Nick agrees to protect Laurent, especially since the murderer, nicknamed the Heartbreaker, is a lot closer to fulfilling his devious goals than anyone realizes. ... .<br />Mystery/suspense buffs should be warned that this book contains more romance than plausible suspense. Garwood's writing is delicious and fun, but the storyline is flat. The (somewhat shocking) ending is worthy of a good suspense yarn, but the plotting and characters seem dormant.  This is a perfect book to pick up for a quiet weekend or lazy day. If it's page-turning action you are looking for in this genre, a  better choice may be Catherine Coulter's FBI mystery: Eleventh Hour	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R3TMZMR56L23P7	0060192410	224669426	A King's Ransom	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent Thriller	While on business in Cartagena, Columbia, American businessman Matthew Rey is kidnapped and a $3 million ransom is demanded for his safe return. His son Nick is a novice attorney who attempts to free him. Nick is thwarted in his efforts by a lawsuit originating from his own firm against his family. It seems that his father had taken out a $3 million kidnapping insurance policy, and it looks as if the whole kidnapping is a set up by Matthew Rey to commit fraud. Worse yet, the FBI won't help because they believe Matthew is a drug smuggler and is somehow in cahoots with his Nicaraguan business partner.  Since Nick cannot raise the money or negotiate his father's release through the usual methods, he enlists the help of a beautiful hostage negotiator, Alex Cabrera, as well as his former fiancee Jenna, who still has feelings for him.<br />A KING'S RANSOM is a taunt, intelligent addition to the genre.  Grippando has written a hot thriller, filled with plenty of action and plot twists. This is an author I would not hesitate to read again.	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R3NF2U15MRJH5A	0312282060	757947270	Murphy's Law (A Molly Murphy Mystery) (Molly Murphy Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Real Page-Turner!	Molly Murphy is a peasant Irish girl who is trying to escape the guillotine after killing a landowner's son in self-defense. She flees to London where circumstances lead her to an unscheduled, but welcome voyage to America with two small children and a new identity. Unfortunately for Molly, she is once again accused of a crime, one she did not commit, and must use what little resources and energy she has left to clear her name in a city where she is a new immigrant and all alone. Save for a kind police captain, and sheer determination, Molly has no one and nothing to help her as she enters the dangerous streets of 19th Century New York in search of the truth.<br />Rhys Bowen has created a charming heroine in Molly Murphy. This first series installment is entertaining and well-written. The storyline carries few surprises and plenty of coincidences, but they work well with the characters and setting. Readers of Anne Perry rejoice!	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R20M6U5R7Y8TQW	0553802518	943340840	The Survivors Club	Books	5	71	73	N	N	A Very Scary, Engaging Thriller!	Jillian Hayes, Carol Rosen, and Meg Pesaturo are three women, all from different walks of life, who survived brutal attacks by serial rapist Eddie Como. They form their own version of a support group and call themselves The Survivors Club, under Jillian`s leadership. Ironically they become the prime suspects when Eddie is murdered right before his court appearance and his assassin is blown up as he attempts to leave the scene.<br />Detective Sergeant Roan Griffin wonders if the three women have collectively conspired to carry out their revenge on Eddie, or if someone one wants to make it look as if they did. Roan must deal with the growing complexities of this case, as well as his own personal demons as he confronts the women.  After another woman is attacked, there is  more controversy and confusion, especially since the killer is now determined to eliminate each member of the Survivors Club. Roan must now pullout all the stops, even if it costs him his career, and possibly his life.<br />Lisa Gardner is an extraordinary writer. She serves up witty and upbeat dialogue, eclectic characters and complete pandemonium in this book. The Survivors Club is chock full of enough excitement, chills and thrills to exhaust even the most die-hard suspense fans. Don't miss this one.	2002-08-26
US	50975754	R23JLV0AM2Y4IQ	0064441555	163732764	Amelia Bedelia (I Can Read Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loads of Fun	Amelia Bedelia is a well-meaning maid, who takes everything literally. On her first day of work at the Rogers household, she is given a list of chores and an admonition from Mrs. Rogers to \\"...do just what the list says\\".  That's when all the fun starts.<br />The first item on the list says: \\"Change the towels in the bathroom\\". Most of us wouldn't think twice about such a request. We would simply pull out fresh towels and replace the dirty ones. But not Amelia! She can't figure out why Mrs. Rogers would want to change such beautiful towels. Nevertheless, she pulls out her scissors and starts \\"changing\\" them! Mrs Rogers also instructs Amelia to trim the fat off the steak and dress the chicken. Within minutes the steak fat is beautifully decorated with ribbon and lace, and when it is time to \\"dress\\" the bird, Amelia cannot decide if Mrs. Rogers prefers a \\"he\\" chicken or a `she\\" chicken!! In the end we learn that there is one thing Amelia can do with flair (and no instructions), and this makes her even more endearing to us all.<br />Amelia Bedelia is a book about interpretation and literal meanings. This is a fun resource for teaching communication skills.<br />Very cute.	2002-08-22
US	50975754	R12XM85HYKQDDK	0446609943	213222268	The Switch	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Twisted twin sister tale...	Melina Lloyd is a media escort, someone who guides celebrities and high profile individuals through their daily schedule. Her twin sister Gillian is undergoing artificial insemination through a donor program. Melina is scheduled to escort Christopher \\"Chief\\" Hart, NASA's first Native-American astronaut, to a gala dinner in his honor.  The sisters decide to switch places in order to give Gillian's mind a pleasurable diversion from her emotionally gripping experience. The plot thickens when Gillian is found murdered the next day and suspicion falls on Chief Hart, the last person to see her alive.<br />Sandra Brown deftly weaves us in and out of madness, mayhem and murder with a gritty cast of characters. I cannot say much more without giving the entire plot away, but suffice it to say that this story, while not her greatest writing, is certainly very clever and engaging.  I was particularly fond of how the author describes with vigor the plight of Native Americans.<br />THE SWITCH is a novel that twists and turns and twists again until the very shocking, unforgettable ending.	2002-08-22
US	50975754	RJW5TCPMFOE19	0399148779	18749417	Eleventh Hour (An FBI Thriller)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Fun Beach Read	In San Francisco Father Michael Joseph Carver is viciously murdered while taking confession. His twin brother, FBI Special Agent Dane Carver is working alongside local police to find his killer. Their star witness is a young homeless woman named \\"Nick\\" who the killer doesn't realize exists.  Dane Carver convinces the local police to take her into protective custody as they work together to track down the killer. Soon a serial killer emerges, one who uses the scripts of a popular television show as the basis for his actions.  It is not long before the killer realizes that the police have a witness in protective custody. Dane calls in his friends and fellow FBI agents, Dillon and Sherlock Savitch to assist him in keeping Nick alive and finding the killer. They must protect her until the case is solved, but can they save her from her own past which threatens to disrupt their efforts and leave all of them for dead?<br />ELEVENTH HOUR is filled with action, danger and heavy-duty romance. The characters are genuine, the plot is played out nicely, and the loose ends are neatly wrapped up at the end. Coulter creates wonderful chemistry between protagonists Dane and Nick, and she successfully intertwines multiple storylines while keeping the reader guessing until the very end. As much as I love her writing, I found some of the actions and dialogue downright silly, and the romantic scenes were definitely more realistic than some of the procedural/action scenes! If you are a die-hard mystery buff, then stay away...but if you enjoy a good dose of steamy romance with a sprinkling of suspense, then this may be a good choice for you.<br />This is my first Coulter book, and although it didn't quite hit the five-star mark for me, I wouldn't hesitate to purchase another.<br />P.S. My favorite character is Sherlock. She's very cool.	2002-08-21
US	50975754	R3AYA48GP3W757	0061098035	303934244	Burn Factor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Fast-Paced Thrill Ride a la Kyle Mills...	Quinn Barry will do anything to fulfill her lifelong dream of becoming an FBI Special Agent.  Unfortunately, she is stuck in a dead-end job as a computer analyst in the basement of the J. Edgar Hoover Building. So close yet so far. She finds she cannot meet her boss' impossible deadline due to a glitch she has discovered in the computer system she is revamping, and is consequently demoted, her reputation ruined. Her dreams of being a Special Agent has been diminished significantly, due to no fault of her own. She prepares to start a new position that is sure to place her out of contention for any future FBI Special Agent training class, but not without conducting her own informal research into the matter. Her goal is to prove to the powers that be that she was not responsible for the missed deadline or the unexplainable errors. What she finds is that the FBI computer had been intentionally pre-programmed to exclude a particular DNA signature, and that this unveils a carefully guarded Bureau secret. When Quinn begins to unravel the mystery behind the biggest cover up the Bureau has every seen, she has to retreat into hiding, and places her life in danger every step of the way.<br />Kyle Mills has crafted a stunning thriller teaming sassy dialogue and vivid characters. His multi-layered subplots converge together to create an unforgettable story that leads to a riveting, unforgettable conclusion. BURN FACTOR should leave many loyal Kyle Mills fans salivating for more.	2002-07-29
US	50975754	R2ZFHO6F5ZTMXX	0375507965	802190395	Constance: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This summer�s best kept secret	Constance is narrated by Morgan Clifford, a fiction and poetry editor at a prestigious NYC publishing firm who has, over time, become disillusioned with her career. Morgan is still mourning the untimely death of her husband when she discovers the work of Constance Chamberlain, a beautiful, enigmatic poet whose work reignites Morgan's passion for classic literature. In the beginning of the book Morgan states \\"Constance, the woman who gives her name to this book, came into my life, it seemed to me, at a time when I needed to be brought back into life.\\". Although Morgan wants to see Constance's work published, she realizes that in this day and age of corporate politics, good writing is not all that matters. Thus, she tries to talk Constance into incorporating her work into a full length novel, thereby making it more sales worthy. But alas, Constance is completely devoted to writing poetry and won`t hear of it.  As the two become fast friends, the veil of Constance's secret life unfolds and races to a unforgettable conclusion.<br />Catherine Cantrell's debut novel is a breathtaking masterpiece of melodious writing which takes us into the heart and soul of a dedicated young artist.  This is a beautiful, tender story that should not be missed.	2002-07-29
US	50975754	R1WDNMJP3EJNBE	0060002484	534292075	Amazonia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Indiana Jones does the Amazon	A team of  scientists launch an expedition into the Amazon jungle and disappear without a trace. One of the lost members is a Special Forces Agent who lost his arm while on duty in Iraq. Four years later, this same one-armed man miraculously staggers out of the jungle and into a missionary camp. He dies shortly thereafter but a photo taken shortly before his death shows both arms intact. Could it be that the Amazon is the habitat of some sort of miracle elixir that can actually grow back limbs? Perplexed, the government hires Carl Rand (the son of the original expedition leader) to lead his own team into the region to (1) what happened to the original team and (2) what research had they uncovered that would explain the numerous oddities discovered after their disappearance.  The group must survive extraordinary encounters with walking piranhas, 40-foot anacondas, and other deadly dangers while their fellow Americans deal with a plague of abominable proportions.<br />James Rollins hands us a bit of everything in this exciting action adventure...an exotic locale, Indiana Jones-type protagonist, devilish villains, and detailed scientific descriptions of fauna and animal life. His pace is fast and feverish, his writing taunt. I was left wondering at the end of each chapter what he could possibly have up his sleeve next.. For those who love an exciting adventure with a dose of science thrown into the mix, AMAZONIA should fit the bill perfectly.	2002-07-29
US	50975754	R102VMJ1UV0MAK	0786708859	644701918	Dead Secret: An Arnold Landon Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Smart and Imaginative Archeological Mystery	Land developer Ken Stafford decides to build a highway access road through the ancient peat bog in Northumberland, much to the dismay of its owner, environmentalists, and several protestors.  When a centuries-old body is discovered remarkably intact, many feel that more research and exploration of the area is warranted. Protagonist Arnold Landon, an archeologist, and his assistant Portia are summoned to evaluate the area when a more recent body (that of one of Stafford's most vocal opponents) surfaces shortly thereafter. Now Landon and Portia must also hunt a killer, in addition to hunting for the bog's archeological significance.<br />There are plenty of twists and mayhem in this story, including some personal conflicts which may raise a few eyebrows, but the story seems to lack a \\"pulse\\". It is interesting, believable and very well written, but not very exciting. Although this book did not quite tickle my fancy, I would definitely read another Roy Lewis novel without hesitation. His writing is flawless, and he places fascinating characters in unique plots.	2002-07-29
US	50975754	R12XCHNVFWJRVJ	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Enthralling Scientific Thriller	\\"Dr. Kelly, are you familiar with the term `cabinet of curiosities'?\\"<br />Nora wondered at the man's ability to pile on non sequiturs. \\"Wasn't it a kind of natural history collection?\\"<br />\\"Precisely. It was the precursor to the natural history museum. Many educated gentlemen of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries collected strange artifacts while roaming the globe -- fossils, bones, shrunken heads, stuffed birds, that sort of thing. Originally, they simply displayed these artifacts in cabinets, for the amusement of their friends. Later --- when it became clear people would pay money to visit them -- some of these cabinets of curiosities grew into commercial enterprises. They still called them `cabinets of curiosities' even thought he collections filled many rooms.\\"<br />\\"What does this have to do with the murders?...\\"<br />(Taken from Part One, Chapter 8)<br />To describe this book as magnificent would be a gross understatement. Preston and Childs' latest thriller is engaging, (to say the least), diabolical and exquisitely written. Definitely not pleasure reading for the faint of heart!<br />New construction of a Manhattan skyscraper is delayed when the excavation crew unexpectedly discovers a 19th century tunnel holding 36 skeletal remains.  Immediately after the discovery is made, Dr. Nora Kelly, an archeologist and curator at the Museum of Natural History, is visited by a mysterious, refined and seemingly wealthy FBI agent named Pendergast who takes an unusual interest in the remains. Dr. Kelly reluctantly joins Special Agent Pendergast for an unofficial examination of the site, and together they make a startling discovery...a clue has been left behind by one of the victims that proves to be an important piece of information in the search for the perpetrator of this hideous crime. The pair also discover that the remains are seemingly connected with a 19th century cabinet of curiosities, a display of eccentric and unusual oddities collected by wealthy men from their global travels.  Pendergast, Kelly and New York Times reporter Bill Smithback begin to investigate diligently, only to spur what appears to be a series of copycat serial killings in Manhattan. Time is running out as the 19th century killings parallel, and recklessly converge with the modern day serial killings.<br />Preston and Childs have authored a masterful scientific thriller, expertly weaving 19th century and modern day New York storylines. THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES is a riveting page turner that delivers relentless action and memorable characters. Against the backdrop of murder, greed and the quest for immortality, this writing duo has produced a solid addition to their increasing string of literary successes. A must for Michael Crichton fans!<br />Enjoy,<br />Cris Cunninghamom their global travels.  Pendergast, Kelly and New York Times reporter Bill Smithback begin to investigate diligently, only to spur what appears to be a series of copycat serial killings in Manhattan. Time is running out as the 19th century killings parallel, and recklessly converge with the modern day serial killings.<br />Preston and Childs have authored a masterful scientific thriller, expertly weaving 19th century and modern day New York storylines. THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES is a riveting page turner that delivers relentless action and memorable characters. Against the backdrop of murder, greed and the quest for immortality, this writing duo has produced a solid addition to their increasing string of literary successes. A must for Michael Crichton fans!<br />Enjoy,<BR>Cris Cunningham	2002-07-27
US	50975754	R320FZF56AW8I2	0609808788	349826372	Jesus, Entrepreneur: Using Ancient Wisdom to Launch and Live Your Dreams	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Ancient Wisdom For Today's Entrepreneur	There's a new breed of entrepreneur emerging in the business world. One who is interested in promoting their deepest personal and spiritual beliefs, as well as their products and services.  They are the ones who launch a business that not only showcases their talents, but also benefits others.  Laurie Beth Jones, the best-selling author of Jesus CEO, calls this new breed of leaders \\"Spiritreneurs\\", and has dedicated this book to keeping their dreams alive.<br />The ultimate role model for the Spiritreneur is Jesus Christ, whose leadership style as told in the Bible, incorporated His talents, gifts, and His desire to do well by doing right. According to the author, you are a \\"Spiritreneur\\" when you are committed to establishing a business that is a true reflection of your spiritual and personal beliefs. In the coaching profession we call this `authenticity\\", that which is a true reflection of oneself. Using Christ as the focal point, we learn how to become real Spiritreneurs. What did He do that made Him the most successful entrepreneur and leader in the world? A few important facets of His life are covered int his book:<br />He heeded the call to Spiritreneurship,<br />During the early days He established His identity<br />He was a Visionary<br />Laurie Beth Jones takes each of these qualities and expounds upon them with relevant Biblical facts that pertain to today's entrepreneur. I came away from this reading experience with a deeper appreciation of the legacy Christ has left for us to follow. His life was the ultimate model of leadership, and of someone who launched, and lived His dream.<br />5 Stars. Highly recommended	2002-07-25
US	50975754	R3METXPOFQGCAB	0813628156	436838516	Spelling Workout, Level A (Student Edition)	Books	5	181	182	N	Y	Excellent!	I've spent some big bucks on spelling programs, and this is by far the best of the lot. No spelling program is perfect because we all have different tastes, but this comes as close to perfection as I have found, and believe me...my wallet has \\"found' quite a few. I've happily resold every one except this one.  By the way, this review refers to the \\"old\\" Sports Theme version...The new version has a multicultural theme, but the same content.<br />Kids usually approach spelling as the necessary evil of their school curriculum, probably because they get no satisfaction from us moms and teachers cramming a list of 10 or 20 words down their throats every week in search of that perfect score. Spelling should not be a drudgery. It should be fun, relaxing, and even hip. Words are so cool...they make up our language. They allow us to communicate with each other and to express ourselves. They allow us to to be free and help us to share a piece of ourselves with others. What students need to get is that without words, they are not connected with all the world has to offer. And worse, they will be seen as uneducated if they grow up to be poor spellers. Bottom line is that they need to learn how to spell whether they like it or not! Philip Trocki has developed a superb series of workbooks based on a sport theme format that kids can relate to. Now that doesn't mean that they will like it. You can't force a kid to like spelling, but at least you can make it tolerable, and that's exactly what this workbook does! By the way, I would highly recommend starting this or any other formal spelling program AFTER the basics of phonics are learned and established.<br />In this series, each lesson is covered over a 5-day period.<br />Day 1: Warm Up and Warm Up test which consists of a reading selection that uses the spelling words in context. The Warm Up test (called \\"On Your Mark\\") guides your student through the pretest and helps them self-assess their spelling<br />Day 2 and 3 - Game Plan: consists of a written spelling rule, a presentation of the list words and a variety of activities that emphasize word meanings. During these days students will be given lots of practice with the List Words. Also included are dictionary skill activities and puzzles.<br />Day 4: Flex Your Spelling Muscles: consists of a writing exercise and challenge words.<br />Day 5: Spelling test is administered<br />Overall, this is the most comprehensive spelling program I have found. The various activities help with retention and have helped to develop my girls into very strong spellers.<br />5 Stars...easilyconsists of a written spelling rule, a presentation of the list words and a variety of activities that emphasize word meanings. During these days students will be given lots of practice with the List Words. Also included are dictionary skill activities and puzzles.<br />Day 4: Flex Your Spelling Muscles: consists of a writing exercise and challenge words.<br />Day 5: Spelling test is administered<br />Overall, this is the most comprehensive spelling program I have found. The various activities help with retention and have helped to develop my girls into very strong spellers.<br />5 Stars...easily	2002-07-24
US	50975754	R1WF5LYVZM3DRR	0671004530	362049018	On the Street Where You Live	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Proven Formula That Works Like A Charm!	New York attorney Emily Graham, a successful criminal lawyer who is in between jobs, purchases her beautiful ancestral home in the resort town of Spring Lake, New Jersey. Once she settles in to what appears to be a less stressful lifestyle, she begins to receive disturbing messages from an anonymous stalker. Soon thereafter, she discovers the remains of Martha Lawrence, a local resident who disappeared four years ago. Buried with Martha`s remains is the finger bone of another woman, bearing a beautiful (and familiar) sapphire ring. The other woman is later identified as Madeline Shapley, Emily's ancestor, who vanished on the same day as Martha, 110 years earlier.  Soon local law enforcement believe there is an \\"anniversary killer\\" on the loose and become alarmed when they realize there is another anniversary approaching within one week. Now they must predict who the next intended victim will be, and if the killer is a copycat or perhaps even a reincarnation. Either way, they now have less than 7 days to catch the killer before he/she strikes again. Emily begins her own informal investigation which leads her head on into the killer's trap.<br />With a vivid cast of characters and a solidly executed plot, Mary Higgins Clark has crafted yet another suspenseful yarn sure to leave one breathlessly turning page after page  into the wee hours of the night. Devoid of any surprises, and yes, a bit more predictable than I would like to admit, this is an entertaining summer beach read which left me quite satisfied and eager for more.  Only a master plotter like MHC can reinvent a formula manuscript one million times and still leave you eagerly anticipating her next installment.<br />4 stars. Minus one for its predictability.	2002-07-23
US	50975754	R1415EBB4VHT0Q	0553263153	150393116	Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess	Books	5	17	24	N	Y	A Must Have For All Students of The Game...	This is a phenomenal program for beginning players, depending on their age.  I found that the most valuable element of this book is the increasing complexity of strategies introduced as one advances in basic knowledge of the game. Personally, and again this is just my humble opinion, I did not find this appropriate for my beginning chess players, ages 6 and 9. Although this is an extremely well-written program, we needed something a bit more visual and basic in its presentation initially.  Our first choice was The Kids' Book of Chess/Book and Kids' Chess Set by Harvey Kidder and Kimberly Bulcken Root.<br />Again, I preface this review by saying that although I did not start my younger players with this book, I find that it is ABSOLUTELY essential for every chess player to have.<br />Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess was definitely the next logical source of instruction for us. It contains a good overview of the basics, but delves voraciously into developing mastery. It is referred to as a program, because it is interactive...sort of like a chess \\"laboratory\\".  Each unit teaches and illustrates a concept, and then requires a written response from the reader. The reader can then compare their response to the author's. This learning technique is invaluable and helps increase retention because the student is required to work through the problem before checking his/her answer. The program is also sequential. You must be patient and NOT skip lessons (you wouldn't want to anyway!) If you do, you will lose some very valuable insights. Each lesson builds on the previous lesson and lays the foundation for following units.<br />Again, you may find this to be the perfect primer for your beginning chess student(s), as most of my fellow reviewers have. Buy this first and evaluate it accordingly. If you require something a bit more elementary, then check out the book I mentioned in the first paragraph; but do not, under any circumstances, move forward with your lessons without this book!<br />5 Stars. Invaluable, educational and provides an excellent foundation.ook!<br />5 Stars. Invaluable, educational and provides an excellent foundation.	2002-07-23
US	50975754	R2XOO87DT2338J	0894807676	628757480	The Kids' Book of Chess and Chess Set	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	A Perfect Chess Primer For Children and Adults.	This magnificent and visually stimulating chess set contains a 96-page beautifully illustrated book, chess pieces and a custom chess board.<br />The book begins with a fascinating, detailed description of the history of the game and how it derived from medieval times. It is incredibly detailed and exquisitely written.  Although I am not particularly a fan of medieval or military history, I found this section to be most engaging, and it certainly helped deepen my love and appreciation for the game. A basic example -- We learn that in medieval times the pawns were the serfs, the poor laborers, the foot soldiers and as in any society there were usually more of them than anyone else. If we were to imagine them in real life they would be traveling on foot and \\"carrying a long spear called a pike. On the battlefield he was known as a pikeman. Pikemen also carried shields, which they held directly in front of them for protection. This meant that they had to point their pikes to either side of the shield. Similarly, because of his shield, a Chess pawn is unable to strike directly in front of him. He can attack only on the diagonal.\\" When presented with details in this manner you come away with a better understanding of why certain rules exist in the game.<br />The second chapter is an introduction to the chessboard itself. The only thing missing here (and it is a very important omission) is a discussion of rank and file. Subsequent chapters over each piece in depth; its significance in relation to the other pieces on the board and how it moves. Towards the end are chapters explaining how to play the game, (accompanied by interesting military history tidbits highlighted in boxes throughout), and basic play strategies (and I mean BASIC in every sense of he word. If you are looking for a more involved strategy-oriented text, then definitely consider buying Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess).<br />This book does a nice job of covering all the basic elements of the game in an entertaining manner. Your student will come away with a comprehensive understanding of, and appreciation for, the oldest war game of all.<br />Five stars. An absolute must for every budding and experienced chess enthusiast.ning manner. Your student will come away with a comprehensive understanding of, and appreciation for, the oldest war game of all.<br />Five stars. An absolute must for every budding and experienced chess enthusiast.	2002-07-23
US	50975754	R2AZ0YZASLV7NP	0399527532	892967766	Fearless Living: Live Without Excuses and Love Without Regret	Books	5	46	53	N	N	A Book That Truly Delivers	Finally, a book that speaks the bare-naked truth in a manner that is not sugarcoated in the usual literary rhetoric.<br />This book exposes the bondage of fear that most of us live through on a daily basis, sometimes without conscious awareness of its existence. It is chock full of information and exercises that force you to really look at your limiting habits and deal with them. When you're through with this book you will learn how to identify and prevent even the very thoughts that give birth to fear, as well as the rising tide of fearful living you may have practiced in the past.<br />Rhonda Britten is a woman who walks her talk. Her methodology is exact, and her sources come from her own life experience, as well as her work as one of the premier life coaches in practice today. I personally felt a jolt of conviction and exhilaration as I read chapter after chapter into the wee hours of the morning. I then picked up the book again the next day and took two weeks to work through all the exercises. This was truly an amazing experience. The most riveting chapter for me? The Wheel of Fear...I never realized how I innocently allow fear to creep into my life, and how my own solutions to my problems were actually creating more problems! It's like I've spent years unconsciously treating the symptom and not the cure. This one chapter alone was worth the price of the book.<br />This is one not to be missed.<br />5 Stars +. Rhonda is a rare find indeed.	2002-07-23
US	50975754	R3T6AH25QNR1XO	0962096733	553574519	Phonics Pathways: Clear Steps to Easy Reading and Perfect Spelling	Books	5	89	91	N	N	The Best Phonics Primer You Can Buy!!!	When I first purchased this book I had no idea what to expect. The reviews here were mixed, as were the testimonials I received from other sources.  I went ahead and made the purchase, just to satisfy my own curiosity, and I can say confidently that it is worth TEN times the price.<br />Think of this as a complete, self-contained phonics kit. Everything, and I mean EVERYTHING you need to teach your beginning, emerging and remedial reader is jammed into this gigantic 238-page workbook. Don't be dismayed by the lack of the usual visual components we homeschoolers always like to see (i.e., flashcards, tapes and CDs). If you have them and would feel more productive using them, then be my guest, but they are totally unnecessary, and may cramp your style (not to mention eat away precious time) if you purchase this book!<br />The power of this award-winning book lies in its simple graduated learning approach. Letters and spelling patterns are introduced one at a time through a sequential methodology. Students are first introduced to the short vowel sounds, then move on to learning the consonants. Next they learn the fine art of blending (explained thoroughly in a language even the most beginning reader will clearly be able to retain). The consonants are then combined with the vowels to make two-letter words and then three-word phrases and sentences which gradually increase in length and complexity. Blending utilizes what the author calls \\"eye-robics\\" -- the practice of training your eye muscles to track together smoothly from left to right across the page as you read sentences. It is an exercise that needs to be practiced daily.<br />This multi-sensory book has proven to be the single most valuable resource we have used in our homeschool. It is easy-to-use, self-teaching and lots of fun. You can also use the sentences given for dictation exercises.<br />This is a great find for those who are looking for a workbook-based phonics program but don't want to shell out big bucks.<br />5 Stars for its practical, resourceful and sound approach to teaching reading.ks. <br />5 Stars for its practical, resourceful and sound approach to teaching reading.	2002-07-23
US	50975754	R3GV6IHCFJAUGD	0843174374	266205316	WEE SING AMERICA BOOK WITH CD	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Inspirational...A Pure Delight For Children of All Ages	This CD and accompanying booklet contains the traditional patriotic songs we grew up with (sung mostly by children), as well as songs from the early pioneer and civil war eras (sung mostly by adults). There are also a few heart-stopping Negro spirituals which left my heart pounding!  They were absolutely beautiful!!...terrific for rekindling the patriotic spirit in all of us. I would also consider this a wonderful educational tool for those who are studying American History. The quality of sound and performance is exceptional. I felt as if I were transported back in time as I listened to this collection with my children. This is sure to become a family heirloom.<br />Four stars...it is rather long, and may be a bit tedious for the faint of heart! You have to appreciate this type of music to enjoy it.<br />Blessings,<br />Cris	2002-07-12
US	50975754	RH962TTMFQZNU	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Memorable Characters...Timid Ending	First let me say that this book has one of the best opening chapters I have ever read! And for die-hard Silva fans, that should not surprise you. This author is tremendous with his \\"hook\\" and continues to leave you breathless throughout your entire reading.<br />In The English Assassin, we meet up again with Gabriel Allon, the art restorer/secret Israeli assassin from The Kill Artist.  Through unexpected events, Gabriel comes to the aid of  Anna Rolfe, a world-class violinist whose father, Swedish banker Augustus Rolfe, has been found dead in his Swiss chalet. He soon finds that the Rolfe family secrets lead to a tangled web of deception that dates back to the Nazi plundering of  World War II. As Gabriel digs deeper into the Rolfe family affairs, an unexpected course of events leads him on a frantic mission to save Anna Rolfe's life from an English assassin who is hired to keep the Rolfe family secrets...secret.<br />Silva is known for his deep research and vivid description of global locales. I also love his characters; they are rich in personality and very well rounded. The good guys have a dark side that makes them tick and the bad guys have many redeeming qualities. In this book we come to know Gabriel, Ari and Julian on a much deeper level, a welcome surprise for those of us who have read the Kill Artist. As usual, I raced through the first two-thirds of this book in record time (Silva does that to you -- especially if you are a die hard international thriller fan like me), but I thought the last third of the book lacked the strength of his previous works, and the ending left me with more questions than answers. His other books were \\"beefy\\" from start to finish -- very thick plot with strong action...unrelenting in its presentation. This one seemed a bit...well, \\"timid\\" to say the least. It's as if the bottom fell out just as the time was approaching for a major showdown. I'm sure there's a reason for this...Silva is an extremely talented and thorough writer known for his exhaustive research and narration. I just wish he had given us a that strong last \\"lap\\" he is so well known for!<br />4 and 1/2 stars. \\"Where's the beef?\\"known for his exhaustive research and narration. I just wish he had given us a that strong last \\"lap\\" he is so well known for!<br />4 and 1/2 stars. \\"Where's the beef?\\"	2002-03-22
US	50975754	R12UD6V9ITKSBF	1576360393	8393450	Charlotte Mason Study Guide	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Indispensable Guide...	If you love the Charlotte Mason method, then you will want to grovel at Penny Gardner's feet after reading this book. She has given us an invaluable tool for implementing the sometimes hard to understand nuisances found in CM's Original Home Education Series.<br />Think of this book as a Study Guide for each volume. It takes most, if not all, of the most important quotes from the entire series, and arranges them into 20 different &quot;Study Topics&quot;. The topics include quotes taken from the series, testimonials from other CM users who have been successful in implementing the particular subject, insights and prose from Penny Gardner herself, and quotes from scripture. All of these elements work cohesively to create a much deeper understanding of the topic, thus eliminating most of the frustration one endures when first reading CM's original work. There is even an in-depth chapter on Narration, the cornerstone of Charlotte Mason's philosophy.<br />I found every chapter (Study Topic) to be a rewarding reading experience. I felt as if I knew exactly what I was suppose to do and how I was suppose to do it. All confusion was eliminated. If you own, or a planning to purchase, Charlotte Mason's Original Home Education Series, then you most definitely need this book.<br />5 Stars (plus more) for keeping the dream alive...Thanks Penny!	2002-03-20
US	50975754	R9RJSH1LEN0QU	1889209023	252977086	A Charlotte Mason Companion: Personal Reflections on The Gentle Art of Learning(TM)	Books	5	101	102	N	Y	Well -Written Introduction to the Charlotte Mason Philosophy	This is a beautifully written and thorough introduction to the Charlotte Mason philosophy. What makes Karen Andreola's book so magnificent is that she not only tells you what to do and how to do it, she tells you WHY!!! That made all the difference to me. She also demonstrates a very strong command of the English language, writing with spectacular elegance and ease.<br />Andreola has also taken a very personal approach in this book. You feel as if you are taking tea with a trusted friend as she reveals her personal testimonies, and narratives. I thought this was a crucial underlying strength in this work, because I found Charlotte Mason's philosophies to be complicated and arcane at first glance; whereas reading this book quiets your spirit and makes this an enjoyable journey. I also found tactful admonition for the preconceived notions I conjured up about Charlotte Mason and her so-called \\"gentle learning\\" approach. Take my advice, don't believe everything you hear on a chat board. Peruse this marvelous overview to get the facts, and then make up your mind as to whether this makes sense for your home school.<br />Immensely enjoyable and valuable guide. Karen Andreola truly is the perfect Charlotte Mason \\"Companion\\"!<br />5 Stars.	2002-03-20
US	50975754	R1XI2DCHL0HVCW	0673588955	782592869	Daily Writing Prompts	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Essential Tool for Homeschoolers!	Daily Writing Prompts is a delightful find for those of us who are looking for a guide to help our students become better writers. Its purpose is simple...to help children become better writers by providing them with daily practice and a connection to literature. Sounds great, right? Well, it is...if you can come up with an interesting variety of topics on your own. This book offers a treasury of writing topics, most with accompanying literature recommendations, right at your fingertips. The idea is to develop themes and topics that are connected with literature we see everyday. Connect the topic with the titles! Now why didn't I think of that? &lt;grin&gt;<br />The author has also included a section of &quot;mini-lessons&quot; to help tune up the grammatical conventions associated with good writing. I found this to be a crucial element to our success. If students don't have the right tools, or components for writing (such as understanding the various parts of a sentence and how sentences work together), then how can we expect them to write fluently? These short, quick mini-lessons can be repeated often so that the skill is reinforced over time.<br />All in all, I found this to be a very helpful and entertaining reference tool for our homeschool. If you want your child to become a better writer while helping them to become better readers, then this will be a perfect addition to your library.	2002-03-18
US	50975754	R2Z3WGC4LMOS99	0880621494	825435789	The ABC's and All Their Tricks: The Complete Reference Book of Phonics and Spelling	Books	5	70	70	N	Y	Exceptional...The Most Complete Phonics/Spelling Book Ever	My only word of caution about this book is that it is intended for teachers. Don't let your child study independently from it (unless they are high-school age), or they may become confused. The reason is not because it is faulty in its presentation, but because it is so comprehensive that students may become frustrated with it.<br />Having said that upfront, I will also add that this is a magnificent phonics and spelling reference. The title uses the word &quot;encyclopedia&quot; and I believe that is the most appropriate description of its contents, and how to effectively use it with your child. The heart of the book is arranged alphabetically covering all the known rules for each letter and letter combinations. You will find introductory notes on each letter, an explanation of all the sounds that letter makes in the English language, and, if applicable, how that particular letter teams with others to make a new sound. You will also notice cross-references so you can easily find comparative sounds and notes. There is also a listing of words (beginning, intermediate and advanced) which work with each sound, exceptions,(if any), a total for the number of words in the English language that use that sound, and any spelling/phonetic rules which cover that sound. Like I said, this is an exhaustive reference tool that leaves no stone unturned.<br />Do yourself, and your student(s) a favor...BUY THIS BOOK! To do without it means hours of preparation and research on your end  (not to mention potential learning gaps) that can be spent applying what is given to you here.	2002-03-18
US	50975754	R10WBFPIBS6FZY	0525464387	673784918	The Amazing Pop-Up Geography  Book (Amazing Pop-Ups)	Books	5	125	126	N	Y	Hours of Fun!	I wasn't sure what to think when I purchased this book for my 8-year-old daughter. We homeschool and she already uses a formal geography textbook...besides, pop-up books are for babies, right?  NOT this one! The pages are jammed packed with fun facts, mesmerizing illustrations and many, many little pop-ups that relate interesting facts in a fun, entertaining way. This is truly a kid-friendly book with an earthquake that actually \\"shakes\\", a volcano that 'explodes\\" mid-page, and a hurricane that spirals and whirls around!  I especially like the 2-page layout of the world (titled \\"Countries\\") where you can find a famous pop-up landmark on the spot of several famous capital cities. This is a cool book that will keep your kids entertained for hours. I use it when I need a break bt feel guilty taking one! My kids don't even miss me. For earlier grades it can stand alone, for mid to upper grades it is a fantastic supplement. I would also suggest the Geography Songs Kit from Audio Memory, Inc. as a companion learning component to this book. Thanks to these resources, and a good atlas and globe, geography is my daughter's favorite subject!<br />5 Stars (easily). Enjoy -- and don't be afraid to admit that you actually did!!!	2002-03-17
US	50975754	R32NMQ775E6WGW	0590491407	87485657	Making Multiplication Easy: Strategies for Mastering the Tables through 10 (Grades 2-4)	Books	5	96	96	N	Y	A Must Have For Teaching Multiplication!!!	Whether you are a homeschooler, or you just want to give your child/student extra help in multiplication, this is a MUST HAVE book that beautifully supplements any math curriculum.  The book flows effortlessly from zero to ten times tables in an entertaining step-by-step format. Each section is chock full of games, stories, songs, word problems and puzzles that are fast to do with children, and involve little or no equipment. Examples include a quote by Shakespeare's King Lear \\"Nothing will come of nothing\\" (for learning anything multiplied by zero is zero); Using fairy tales to learn how to multiply by one (\\"Once a upon a time there were three bears\\", \\"Once upon a time there were seven dwarfs\\");  the cute, memorable folktale of Mr. & Mrs. Yam, a couple who made a fascinating discovery in their back yard, for learning to multiply by 2; Using a calendar and the concept of eating three meals a day to teach the three times table, and a host of other practical, enlightening suggestions.<br />The latter part of the book contains reproducibles and teaching aids for use in the home school and classroom -- guaranteed to keep your student(s) busy for hours! When I used this book with my 8-year-old daughter, I don't think she realized how much she was learning. We ended up putting her regular textbook on the shelf for a few days while she had fun working from this book. When she was finished, I just used the speed drills and tests from her regular curriculum to test her comprehension and retention. I found she consistently scored in the high 90's - 100 on every test. Every family is different, but it took us a solid two weeks (working 5-6 days a week for 35-40 minutes per day) for her to have the zero-ten times tables memorized cold.<br />This book is so effective because it is easy for the teacher/parent to use, and is a fun way for kids to learn this sometimes confusing concept. Even older students will appreciate the hints, songs, games and poems partly because they are great strategies, but mostly because they are really fun!<br />Definitely the most entertaining and useful of all the supplementary materials I have reviewed for multiplication (and believe me, I have looked at many!!!). I would also recommend the Multiplication Songs Kit from Audio Memory, Inc. as another source to use in conjunction with this book and your regular curriculum.<br />5 Starts. Enjoy!reat strategies, but mostly because they are really fun!<br />Definitely the most entertaining and useful of all the supplementary materials I have reviewed for multiplication (and believe me, I have looked at many!!!). I would also recommend the Multiplication Songs Kit from Audio Memory, Inc. as another source to use in conjunction with this book and your regular curriculum.<br />5 Starts. Enjoy!	2002-03-17
US	50975754	R3QNVMZJHA3AC4	0590373501	797797439	The Mega-Fun Multiplication Facts Activity Book (Grades 2-5)	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Close, But No Cigar...	While the ideas and concepts presented are solid, they definitely fall short in the entertaining department. As the title sys, the focus is on facts, not fun. Homeschoolers will not appreciate the hodge-podge of traditional classsroom-oriented activities that involve more than one or two students, while classroom teachers may find some of the &quot;same old stuff&quot; presented in a new way. However, there are some clever ideas and interesting games for presenting multiplication tables; they just borderline on the mundane, in my opinion.<br />The bottom line is this: If you buy this book, your kids will learn multiplication without a doubt. They will glean some very helpful hints and they will be able to tackle even the most difficult problems...they just won't have alot of fun doing it, and you may have to spend more prep time that you want. I don't know about you, but I already work with a math curriculum, so I don't want to use a supplement that calls for the same amount of prep time as my curriculum calls for. I also want something my kids can grab onto in a fun, meaningful way. If you are just looking for something to reinforce multiplication at home (whether or not you are not a homeschooler) I would definitely look elsewhere. The activities presented here are for classrooms, not home learning environments.<br />A better choice is Meish Goldish's Making Multiplication Easy - absolutely one of the best supplements around on this topic.<br />3 Stars. Could have been better for both teacher and student.	2002-03-17
US	50975754	R1PG698AJYZCEG	0811820882	531454033	Sylvia Long's Mother Goose	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Heirloom-Quality...Enchanting!!!	This is the most beautifully illustrated Mother Goose book I have seen. Sylvia Long has taken her own interpretations of these classic rhymes and turned them into a wonderful imaginative feast for the eyes. The animal characters behave so life-like as they take the place of their human counterparts! I also like the way the author groups the rhymes according to themes. For example, all the rhymes containing words about specific animals, physical traits or characteristics tend to be grouped together. There is also an index of first lines in the back of the book.<br />My daughters continually pour over the images every day, and were even inspired to write and illustrate their own interpretations in their personal copybooks. The rhymes are classic, but in this book, the images tell their own stories as well!<br />5 Stars.	2002-03-17
US	50975754	R1NZ5AOOOOJ11L	1571201009	650372560	A Thimbleberries Housewarming: 22 Projects for Quilters	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Fast, Beautiful Quilting Projects For The Beginner!	Lynette Jensen is known for her warm and inviting designs, and of all her books, I believe this one is great for beginner's who want to put a quick slash of  color and warmth in their homes on a budget.  With Housewarming, she teaches us how to make simple, traditional quilted projects for every room in our homes (including a shower curtain for the bathroom!), and every season.  Each project has step-by-step directions and a side bar with decorating tips that relate directly to the project being discussed.  There are also inspirational messages dispersed throughout on how you can create a welcome and inviting tone with quilts in your home. Her directions are precise, written in simple and easy-to-follow language that doesn't confuse beginners the way most books do. She also has an illustrated  reference guide in the back that covers quilting basics relatively well.<br />My favorites: (I really love them all!): Folk Art Flowers. a 22-inch wallhanging with its pretty mixture of blue, gold, red and green prints; Tulips, a 30 x 40 inch wallhanging and a true gardener's delight!; Star Patch a 24-inch square wallhanging in brillant gold, red, beige and black prints (my personal favorite!); and Hearts in the Corner, a 17-inch square reminiscent of Victorian times.<br />Yes, I love the overall theme of the book: How to make your home a welcome and inviting haven year round by decorating with quilts... but I REALLY love that this is a perfect quilting premier for beginners!<br />5 Stars. Enjoy!	2002-03-17
US	50975754	R3I9SL26XQTR0Y	0792270967	44643113	George Washington	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Makes a GREAT Read Aloud For "Children" of ALL Ages!	The illustrations in this book are nothing short of amazing. Very powerful. They jump right out at you and each page is loaded with beautiful visuals and text. I lost myself in each page as I read this book to my two daughters. The storyline is definitely geared for the higher primary grade levels (4th/5th Grade and up), but my kids were still  mesmerized. Quite frankly, so was I!<br />I'll add this to our personal library because it is well written and they will appreciate it more in later grades. If you are looking for a terrific book about Washington for younger readers try George Washington: A Picture Book Biography by James Cross Giblin.<br />But don't neglect the sheer artistry in this book by Harness. It is truly remarkable!<br />5 Stars...<br />Enjoy	2002-02-15
US	50975754	R236Q53XQR2KSB	0689715404	292610258	The Courage of Sarah Noble	Books	5	54	57	N	N	A Wonderful Story About Courage and Friendship	A heartwarming (and true) story about 8-year old Sarah Noble who travels with her father from Massachusetts to New Milford, Connecticut where he is to build the first home in that area for their family. When the house is finished, John Noble must leave his daughter with an Indian family while he goes back to Mass. to get his wife and other children.<br />The storyline flows beautifully, and the writing is rich but won't overload the emerging chapter-reader. If your child is making the transition into chapter books and loves historical fiction, then this is a great book for you.<br />Even older readers will enjoy the simplicity and adventure of this beautiful story. Although my daughter has read many chapter books, this is still one of her favorites!<br />Enjoy.	2002-02-15
US	50975754	R130PYSGU19W39	0940319063	685292706	The Three R's	Books	5	159	160	N	Y	Great Resource...and Filled With Wisdom	The great thing about these little (28-30 pages) guides is that they truly give you all you need to start successfully homeschooling your K-3rd Grader in 3 core areas: reading, Language (Grammar) and Math. They are jammed packed with details and wonderful \\"how-tos\\", not rhetoric. I imagine that you can design a whole year's curriculum with just this packet, and a collection of very good books. Do yourself a favor, ditch the urge to buy those expensive curriculums with bells and whistles. Buy this first. I just wish I found this series BEFORE I spent hundreds of dollars on buying and selling things I didn't want or need. When you have finished this, I suggest you read Beechick's You Can Teach Your Child Successfully for more wisdom on schooling 4th-8th Grade.<br />Enjoy.	2002-02-15
US	50975754	R3CSJ81BBQDXFC	0590481010	363543398	George Washington: A Picture Book Biography	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Story and Stunning Illustrations...	Out of all the books we have read in honor of President's Day, this one stands head and shoulders above the pack. The story is superbly written and the illustrations by Michael Dooling are gorgeous. Giblin weaves from facts a story that is entertaining and educational. His writing personalizes the life of George Washington without getting too mushy for adults or too bogged down in language that children don't understand. He even debunks the myth of the cherry tree in a separate section entitled \\"More about George Washington\\". I originally borrowed this book from the library but purchased it here on Amazon to add to our personal collection. It's THAT good!<br />Enjoy,<br />Cris	2002-02-15
US	50975754	R2EZCK7RWP3ULL	1882514076	115547780	English for the Thoughtful Child, Vol. 1	Books	5	455	456	N	N	This Is A Beautiful Book but...	It's not your normal text/workbook. You have to really be willing to take your time in order to get the most out of it. After several trials and errors, I can now appreciate why it works so well.<br />At first glance, I wanted to toss this for something more &quot;structured&quot; and &quot;self-directed&quot;. I couldn't figure out how a child was supposed to learn anything by using this book. It is devoid of the normal jargon found in most workbooks. And what was up with the pictures? How can I ask my child to analyze a picture and call THAT a &quot;grammar&quot; lesson? What were they suppose to be learning from THAT? Weren't they suppose to be studying nouns and predicates and doing daily drills and such? But, alas, good things come to those who...slow down!<br />This book makes heavy use of narration (the child telling back a story in his/her own words), or &quot;oral composition&quot;. If this is a foreign concept to you then delay this purchase and buy books by Dr. Ruth Beechick and/or anything about Charlotte Mason and her philosophy. You need to understand narration and why it works so effectively. If you are not sold on this approach, then don't buy this book. If you are familiar with the works of these two pioneers of &quot;natural learning&quot;, and you feel comfortable with this approach, then this may be a great grammar/composition book to use with your 2nd - 4th Grader. Jessie Wise and Susan Bauer mention narration in _The Well Trained Mind_ , but they don't expound on it the way Beechick and Mason do.<br />The beauty of this book is in its simplicity. It causes a child to think deep and answer thoroughly; hence the title. This is not a book to rush through. Every page, every lesson is to be savored, and chewed thoroughly like a good meal. I realized this after changing my homeschool program into one that is more relaxed and focused on the joy of everyday learning. This book causes you to slow down and think. Think REAL hard. You may or may not want to put that much time into a grammar/composition program.<br />Having said that, I must say that I agree with some of the complaints mentioned here, but it took a second purchase (after selling my first copy) to force me to look at it more closely. I wouldn't exactly call this a self-directed, independent program. You have to like working closely with your child. You have to be willing to work slowly and thoughtfully. If that's not your style, then don't buy this book! Also, remember that some kids read better than they write. This book encompasses a lot of writing exercises, but they can be done orally.<br />My 8 year-old daughter and I loved working through this together. It was a struggle for me to slow down the pace and enjoy it, but I realized that she needed this time with me so I forced myself to stay cool and slow down. It was tough, but worth it. That relaxed pace has spilled over to other areas of our homeschool and I have found it really works well for us.<br />Hope that helps. Enjoy this one (if you can!)<br />Cristo put that much time into a grammar/composition program.<br />Having said that, I must say that I agree with some of the complaints mentioned here, but it took a second purchase (after selling my first copy) to force me to look at it more closely. I wouldn't exactly call this a self-directed, independent program. You have to like working closely with your child. You have to be willing to work slowly and thoughtfully. If that's not your style, then don't buy this book! Also, remember that some kids read better than they write. This book encompasses a lot of writing exercises, but they can be done orally.<br />My 8 year-old daughter and I loved working through this together. It was a struggle for me to slow down the pace and enjoy it, but I realized that she needed this time with me so I forced myself to stay cool and slow down. It was tough, but worth it. That relaxed pace has spilled over to other areas of our homeschool and I have found it really works well for us.<br />Hope that helps. Enjoy this one (if you can!)<br />Cris	2002-02-12
US	50975754	R138VVVYBCSIUS	0517707829	92064243	Bringing It Home: England: The Ultimate Guide to Creating the Feeling of England in Your Home	Books	5	63	64	N	Y	A Terrific Cultural Experience!	Author Cheryl MacLachlan writes &quot;...'English style' refers to the unique constellation of elements - homegrown and foreign - that the English have taken as their own&quot;. This book shows you how to create a beautiful, charming English atmosphere in your home, and in your life.<br />My bedtime ritual now includes sitting down with a steaming cup of tea while browsing through every page of this book.  After collecting and borrowing dozens of books on this topic, I find this one to be the most comprehensive and inspiring resource for the lover of anything English.<br />&quot;Like a house, Bringing It Home - England is divided into rooms&quot;...The book's chapters cover the following topics:<br />(1) The Substance of the English Style: common threads that unite all English homes, walls, motifs, graphics and everything out of the ordinary<br />(2) The Living Room: how to arrange furniture, select fabrics, and my favorite topic: how to create the look of a traditional English drawing room<br />(3) The Bedroom: creating a &quot;cozy sanctuary&quot;, creating the romantic look (I can attest to the fact that her advice in this section works beautifully!), how to create the English look in your bath, and there is even a section on creating the look in a nursery!<br />(4) The Dining Room: special emphasis on creating a &quot;tailored, handsome&quot; look. Includes information on English china, porcelain and crystal. There is even a guide to selecting tables and chairs.<br />(5) The Garden: No book about English style would be complete without information on creating a traditional English garden. Includes a primer on the art of flower arrangement.<br />)6) The Kitchen: The floors, cabines, furnishings and &quot;cooker&quot; are all covered in this section as well as my very favorite subject on the pleasure of &quot;taking tea&quot;. Oh, life is grand!!!!<br />(7) A Resource section which includes information on all the &quot;English-style&quot; essentials and where to find them. Includes a  reading list and travel ideas.<br />The information is practical and inspiring, as are the beautiful photographs. I feel this is the best book on this topic anywhere.<br />5 Stars. Enjoy.find them. Includes a  reading list and travel ideas.<br />The information is practical and inspiring, as are the beautiful photographs. I feel this is the best book on this topic anywhere.<br />5 Stars. Enjoy.	2001-10-14
US	50975754	RW0AKCPESPJ9E	0740716573	330856437	A Charmed Life 2002 Desk Calendar	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Beautifully Illustrated...	Mary Engelbreit is known for very colorful projects and this 2002 Calendar is no exception. The front has 2001- 2003 Yearly imprints followed by month-at-a-glance views with Sidebars for special notes and thoughts. The middle of this spiral-bound edition has week-at-a-glance views with PLENTY of space for daily notes. What sets this calendar apart from the others, in my opinion (and I am a planning freak!)are the sidebars that go along with the weekly views. At the beginning of every week you will see the current month's calendar with space for &quot;Need To Do&quot;, &quot;Want To Do&quot; and a classic quote (one per week). Monthly &quot;future planning views&quot; with generous writing space are included towards the end of the year (up to 2004, along with Holidays, space for Birthdays and Anniversaries, Names and Addresses, and Websites to remember. An added bonus is the splattering of beautiful ME prints throughout.<br />All in all this is a beautifully illustrated and very practical calendar that is designed to accommodate the busiest of lifestyles.<br />Five Stars.	2001-10-11
US	50975754	R2MLXRGSH94KB2	1885183763	379309774	Kids Knitting: Projects for Kids of all Ages	Books	5	182	183	N	Y	Not Just For Kids...	This is the book my 8-year-old daughter and I used together to learn how to knit. As the subtitle says, it's a book for kids &quot;of all ages&quot;.<br />When you read through this book you will not only learn how to knit, but you will have a deeper appreciation of needlework in general. The author covers what basic supplies you need to get started, how to make your own knitting needles (yes! And it is a lot easier than you may think), how to decorate your needles, why you should start using two different color needles, what to do when you don't have any needles (you can still knit with your fingers, the book shows you how!), how to make &quot;kool-aid&quot; yarn in super-fun colors, and where yarn comes from. The instructions were much simpler to understand than those in the traditional &quot;adult books&quot; and after finishing a few of the basic projects, I actually felt inspired to learn more, as did my daughter.<br />If you are looking for a terrific alternative to TV and video games then definitely buy this book. There are plenty of photographs of girls AND boys from all different races and creeds who seem to be enjoying their time spent knitting, and the pages are splashed with fun colors and typeface.<br />5 Stars. This is the very best beginners book on the market!	2001-08-09
US	50975754	R1DKHJSCVY8APG	044900211X	142953671	The Marching Season	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A SURPRISINGLY GOOD SEQUEL	When a paramilitary group uses terrorist tactics to squash the Good Friday Peace Accords, the British prime Minister asks the US President to appoint an experienced politician to the post of US Ambassador to London. The unanimous choice is former US Senator Douglas Cannon, who publicly and vehemently vows to not give in to \\"thugs\\" who want to derail the peace process. Although the British politicians are encouraged by his remarks, his intrepidness makes him a target for assassination. Out of concern for the Ambassador's safety, Michael Osbourne, Cannon's son-in-law and retired CIA counter-terrorism expert, launches his own unofficial investigation. Osbourne is shocked when he discovers that his old nemesis, the painter-assassin Jean-Paul Delaroche, whom Osbourne thought was killed during their last encounter, is alive and is responsible for the execution-style killing of a Hamas leader in the Middle East. Osbourne returns to the CIA to stop Delaroche before he carries out his next assignment: The assassination of the US Ambassador to London.<br />4 and 1/2 Stars. THE MARCHING SEASON starts off slowly and but recovers as the narrative continues. Silva demonstrates why he is one of the best researchers in the genre. The reappearance of Delaroche and Osbourne make this sequel memorable, although their \\"reunion\\" was not what I anticipated. Nevertheless, Silva is a very talented writer who churns out an emotionally charged ending from a slow and steady storyline. Die-hard Silva fans like myself will want this book even if it is a bit more passive compared to his previous efforts.	2001-08-08
US	50975754	R1021RQ44UQ034	9834502583	373787728	Home Allowance and Chore Kit: Larry Burkett's Money Matters for Kids : Ages 6-16	Books	4	31	31	N	Y	A TERRIFIC FAMILY TOOL	How do we go about paying allowances and still teach our kids to contribute to the family without expecting to be paid?<br />Written from a Christian perspective, the HOME ALLOWANCE AND CHORE KIT answers this dilemma beautifully. This is not just a book, but a complete bookkeeping system designed to organize household chores, and gauge how well each member of the family is contributing to the family's well being.<br />Burkett's theory is that each member of the family is responsible for tasks for which he/she is not paid because these tasks serve everyone's needs -- duties such as washing dishes, cleaning bathrooms, setting the table, etc.  A child's allowance should not be tied to an opportunity to earn income, because their allowance is part of the overall family income.  However, it is important to give children the opportunity to earn extra money doing jobs that go BEYOND those which regularly contribute to the family's overall well being.<br />The kit contains tear-off \\"chore sheets\\" so children can have a constant visual reminder of what their contributing responsibilities are. It also contains an optional job \\"Board\\" with a magnetic background (for easy refrigerator mounting) for use after your child completes his contributing responsibilities on the chore sheets. Only the jobs on the \\"Board\\" can be completed for compensation, the other tasks on the chore sheets are completed because he/she is responsible for contributing to the household. There is also a Parent's Guide and Log Book which is chock full of terrific \\"Parenting Economics\\" tips and instructions on how to use the kit for maximum benefit.<br />Now this may sound like something anyone an devise on their own, but Burkett has a way of pulling the whole concept together so nicely that I highly recommend this purchase for any parent struggling with this concept.<br />4 Stars. The kit presents a healthy idea, although it is a bit sparse. Nevertheless, I found it to be a great beginning point for teaching my girls (ages 8 and 5) about responsibility and finances. They went through all the steps with me and happen to think it's also a lot of fun! (now who would have thought THAT would happen??)my girls (ages 8 and 5) about responsibility and finances. They went through all the steps with me and happen to think it's also a lot of fun! (now who would have thought THAT would happen??)	2001-08-07
US	50975754	R1U52BBHZWGFL8	0823046133	305850643	The Complete Guide to Rubber Stamping: Design and Decorate Gifts and Keepsakes (Watson-Guptill Crafts)	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Great Starter Book	Rubber Stamping is a creative, affordable way to personalize your gift giving and home projects. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  For all you Carol Duvall fans, this book was written by Grace Taormina. You may remember her from several of Carol's segments.  The projects are exquisite and full-color photographs accompany EACH STEP. As one who considers herself to be somewhat of a stamping novice, I get very nervous when I see a lot of type and no pictures (aside of the one which depicts the final result). This was terrific in that regard. I'll note that I did not read the chapter which covers the basics, as I have had some prior exposure (very minimal) to stamping. I tend to look more at the photos than the prelude.<br />Now on to the projects: What makes this book stand out in my opinion is the devotion it makes to crafters of different backgrounds who want to try stamping. For instance, I am a quilter, and I was particularly pleased to see a section devoted to those of use who love stitchery (entitled Stamping For Stitchers). I made a very pretty Victorian Posy pillow and a couple of quilted pieces from this section. Other chapters covered Paper Projects, Home Decor, Gift Ideas ,and projects for Holidays and Special Occasions. All in all I thought this was a terrific buy. I felt I got my money's worth after successfully interpreting and completing five projects within 10 days.<br />Enjoy.	2001-08-05
US	50975754	RSMQIRLOPN4V7	0553800949	899995514	Final Target	Books	4	3	4	N	N	FULL-THROTTLE SUSPENSE	In Vasaro, France seven-year-old Cassie Andreas, the U.S. President's daughter, awakens to find a heinous massacre taking place in the family's farmhouse estate. Everyone, including her Secret Service bodyguards and her nanny (who ended up betraying her) has been killed. She begins a desperate search for a family heirloom called the Wind Dancer, which she feels will provide an emotional escape from the bloodshed around her. Just as she finds the statute, she is saved from certain death by a mysterious stranger named Michael Travis, and slips into catatonic trauma. We learn that Travis is an elusive underworld &quot;information&quot; broker and thief. President Jonathan Andreas is not sure if Travis is the hero he appears to be, or if he had another reason for being at the estate that evening. Andreas moves Cassie to the Virginia home of Dr. Jessica Riley, who helped her own sister Melissa come back from the same condition. Jessica doesn't seem to be getting anywhere with Cassie, but when Melissa returns to visit at the same time that Travis bargains his way back onto American soil, things begin to heat up tremendously. Although it appears that Melissa has a &quot;special&quot; connection with Cassie that Jessica cannot understand, it is Travis who holds the key to Cassie's recovery. He soon launches a deadly game of Russian roulette with the little girl's life, drawing them all into an international nightmare in which one of the main characters is brutally murdered, and the others are left to create the bait that will flush out a killer.<br />FINAL TARGET starts with a bang and escalates from there. This is a solid chase that features restrained passions, coolly determined characters, and unspeakable danger.<br />4 Stars. This is a solid, entertaining read. The characters are very well developed and the dialogue is sharp. However, a little more information about catatonic trauma would have added more depth and believability to the plot.	2001-08-01
US	50975754	R2O8EAF8UIMHQD	0743417836	761051388	The Bomber	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	DON'T MISS THIS ONE...SPECTACULAR	Already a best seller in Europe for over one year, THE BOMBER gives a terrific behind-the-scenes view of the Swedish tabloid business as told by author-journalist Liza Marklund. This is the tale of Annika Bengtzon and her courageous attempt to catch a killer while struggling with the stress and demands of a deteriorating family life.<br />Just a few days before Christmas, a bomb rips through the Olympic Stadium in Stockholm Sweden, killing the head of the Olympic Organizing Committee. In the media frenzy that follows, insistent crime tabloid reporter Annika Bengtzon uses shrewd investigation skills to keep her newspaper a step ahead of the competition. As she deftly unravels the layers of an apparent cover up, Annika finds a source within the police department who tells her that this was not the act of a deranged terrorist group as many have thought; but rather a cold-blooded execution designed by one lone murderer.  Annika becomes completely consumed by the story, and in the process neglects her husband and small children.  The plot goes into warp drive as she simultaneously juggles the high demands of her family life with the increasing stress of her male-dominated editorial job, and the looming threat of a malicious, cold-blooded assassin bent on making her his next victim.<br />THE BOMBER is a spectacular debut novel that focuses on investigative reporting and the increasing demands placed on working mothers. While the suspense may not be as calculating as other more well known bestsellers, it certainly works within the framework of the storyline. The only aspect of the novel which presented more of a mystery to me than the identity of the bomber is inclusion of a few &quot;letters&quot; intermittently dispersed throughout the book covering topics such as  love, lies, humanity, happiness, etc. (what was THAT all about???????)<br />4 stars. Although the mystery gets light treatment and the puzzle is not very challenging, the translation by Kajsa Von Hofsen is superbly written.uperbly written.	2001-07-31
US	50975754	R3RSOU2K0U82GM	0609602195	362558610	The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook	Books	5	295	314	N	N	Simple and Delicious!	This is not your ordinary cookbook. It is a visual feast for all your senses. The photographs are stunning, the recipes are simple to understand, and the tips are actually very helpful.  Ina Garten expertly walks you  through preparation to presentation, and injects personal anecdotes throughout. I was left with the impression that she truly wants her readers to appreciate the simplicity and beauty of a great meal.<br />The book begins with an introduction to fresh ingredients and again, the emphasis is on quality and simplicity. Ina guides us through a farmer's market of fresh fruits and vegetables, explaining what to look for and how to select the very best ingredients for our meals. In the midst of this primer, she delivers a simple recipe for fresh lemonade (a quick application of what we have just learned!), followed by a glossary of kitchen terms, and all accompanied by beautiful photographs. The first section is devoted to appetizers, and includes detailed instructions on what to serve at cocktail parties (and exactly how to serve it) and how to make and present an elegant, yet simple fruit and cheese platter. My favorite recipe from this section was the vegetable sushi. She then covers Soups (including home made croutons), Salads (the French Potato is tremendous!), Dinner Entrees (including a kitchen clambake and the famous Indonesian Ginger Chicken recipe), Vegetables (with instructions on  creating a stunning vegetable platter), Desserts (the country dessert platter is perfect for small groups get-togethers!) and a section simply entitled \\"Breakfast\\" with a wonderful recipe for White Hot Chocolate and a short primer on how to make \\"the perfect cup of coffee\\". The book ends with details for assembling party food and has a complete resource section loaded with information on how to find specialty items.<br />I own many cookbooks, but I have found this to be the most inspiring and entertaining that I have read. The recipes are simple, and quite delicious, making this a terrific resource for both the experienced and novice cook.<br />5 Stars. Magnificent!ing this a terrific resource for both the experienced and novice cook.<br />5 Stars. Magnificent!	2001-07-23
US	50975754	RID9EBRJU23MH	0684823438	526098515	Rock, Paper, Scissors	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Five-Star Political Thriller	Sarah Peterson was only three years old when she sat strapped into a playground swing and watched helplessly as a stranger assassinated her father, a young CIA agent, right before her eyes. She innocently beckons her father to &quot;wake up&quot; as she watches his blood pour all over the ground around her. The playground is in an isolated location (their secret hang out spot) so no one comes to her aid right away. She is left there, all alone with her father's dead body, until late at night when her mother and the police finally find her.<br />When I finished reading this opening chapter I was convinced that Steve Samuel is an absolute genius, a feeling that has remained with me long after I finishing the book. This the most riveting opening chapter I have ever read.<br />As the plot continues it is three decades later, and in an effort to find the truth behind her father's murder, Sarah becomes a Secret Service agent, and quickly rises to the top of her field. While conducting a training class for new recruits, she is unexpectedly summoned to the Oval Office by the President. He requests that she take on a new job as personal security chief to Secretary of State Jack Montgomery, a man with his own agenda...one which directly conflicts with the President's foreign policy. Sarah reluctantly accepts this new assignment, all the while remembering a mysterious note she received just a few days prior warning her against doing so. When she secretly tapes a clandestine meeting between Montgomery and two other men, Sarah comes face to face with a kidnapping victim and her billionaire father, past demons that return to haunt her in a vicious manner, and a tangled web of espionage at the highest levels of government.<br />Ten hours after I began this novel I was greedily soaking up the last few sentences and noticed the hairs on my head were still standing. Samuel writes with exquisite energy, genius and wit. The characters are magnificent, the plotting was thick with surprises, and his narration is flawless. Even the dialogue manages to jump off the page, adding depth and dimension to the characters.  Saddam Hussein makes a brief cameo appearance, but that is enough to make him the central character in the storyline. I found the kidnapping scenes to be the most vivid and disturbing I have ever read, and I particularly liked the 3-dimensional character of Sam Baldwin. There was a surprise around every corner, and an ending that was just as mysterious and intriguing as the opening chapter.<br />5 stars. Be warned...This one is sure to cost you some sleep.prises, and his narration is flawless. Even the dialogue manages to jump off the page, adding depth and dimension to the characters.  Saddam Hussein makes a brief cameo appearance, but that is enough to make him the central character in the storyline. I found the kidnapping scenes to be the most vivid and disturbing I have ever read, and I particularly liked the 3-dimensional character of Sam Baldwin. There was a surprise around every corner, and an ending that was just as mysterious and intriguing as the opening chapter. <br />5 stars. Be warned...This one is sure to cost you some sleep.	2001-07-15
US	50975754	R1RHQKDZQ8NRH9	0517148293	229094737	The Fannie Farmer Baking Book	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	Reigns Supreme...The Best of The Lot..	This book was recommended by a good friend who is a pastry chef as the book she uses most often (as the saying goes, if it's good enough for her...&quot;).<br />Needless to say, this baking guide is priceless. There is a General Information chapter which is basically a reference and &quot;how-to&quot; section containing detailed information on basic ingredients, how and why you should use substitutions, how to beat eggs, how baking powder works, etc. It works much like a baking primer, but reads as if an experienced friend is working alongside you. There follows detailed chapters on Pies and Tarts, Cookies, Cakes, Yeast breads, Quick Breads and Crackers. Each section has it's own little &quot;primer&quot; and is loaded with tips, different variations and step-by-step recipes.<br />Every recipe that I have tried (and I am a beginner-baker) has turned out terrific. I am still amazed at how easy it is to understand, considering there are no photographs, just basic illustrations.  I found myself referring back to the book often and continue to be encouraged to try something new. After purchasing so many cookbooks and having them end up in the back of my pantry, this was a pleasant, welcome surprise.	2001-07-15
US	50975754	R9XBOGV2T6QQO	0312869088	556892700	Conspiracy.Com: A Novel	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	High-Speed Cyber Thriller...	Stanford honors graduate and computer engineer \\"extraordinaire\\" Michael Ryan is being courted by every big name high-tech company imaginable, including MicroSoft and Oracle. However, like Grisham's protagonist in _The Firm_, Michael gives in to the promise of a bright and very lucrative financial future with an unknown company, this one named SoftCorp, whose only client is the Internal Revenue Service. What Michael doesn't know (but we all easily deduct) is that SoftCorp has some serious skeletons in the closet, and will go to any lengths to protect their company's secrets.  SoftCorp is also the focus of a botched FBI investigation in which one agent and one informant have already been killed.  When Karen Frost, the current special agent in charge, approaches Michael and his wife Victoria about helping with the investigation, they all become disposable pawns in a deadly game of hide and seek masterminded by one corrupt individual. Pretty soon people with powerful political agendas, (and corporate executives who were puppets to these agendas) start to die, leaving Michael to use his expert computer programming skills, and a little ingenuity, if he is to keep himself and Victoria alive.<br />This book is a cyber thriller/political intrigue mix. Through his protagonist R.J Pineiro introduces us to the high-tech world of virtual reality programming and back door politics, without drowning us in a heap of technical jargon. He also shows how vulnerable our economy is to the advances taking place in technology. What makes this story line work so well is the high tech solutions used to wither away from the constant threat of danger, and the unrelenting pace and suspense built in by the author. Pineiro really knows how to keep his readers on the edge of their seats...when the action gets really hot, his chapters become shorter, making the plot race almost as fast as your heartbeat.  This is a must read if you love explosive suspense thrillers with a good dose of high-tech solutions thrown into the mix.<br />4 and 1/2 stars...only because the basic premise is all too familiar...but Pineiro digresses sharply from Grisham-dom early on with his cyber-tech theme. And the ending is superb.lutions thrown into the mix. <br />4 and 1/2 stars...only because the basic premise is all too familiar...but Pineiro digresses sharply from Grisham-dom early on with his cyber-tech theme. And the ending is superb.	2001-06-25
US	50975754	RQ1GZ2USKXTNU	0671024078	32618872	Mesmerized	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Bold Writing And Lots Of Non-Stop Action...	Gayle Lynds has given us an intriguing mix of genres rolled up into one explosive package...a taunt legal drama and medical/espionage thriller with hefty doses of psychological suspense thrown into the mix.<br />When we are first introduced to hotshot attorney Beth Convey, she is at the height of her career and in line for a well deserved partnership at her prestigious Washington D.C. law firm. The book opens with her battling a case in court for a multimillion dollar client. Just as she is conducting a riveting cross examination she collapses and is pronounced dead. She is quickly revived but desperately needs a heart transplant. When a Russian man is killed in a motorcycle accident, Beth receives his heart as well as his dreams, his language, his tastes and most frightening of all...his knowledge of weaponry and of a unknown group of world conspirators. Even Russian names and phone numbers that were characteristic for him have become part of her current memory. She becomes quite curious about this and with the help of journalist Jeff Hammond (who happens to be an expert in Russian affairs), she begins to track down her donor only to be thrust into a secret plan that will literary change the balance of world power.<br />Gayle Lynds is a master researcher and storyteller. She has a certain talent for discovering the most obscure, and controversial character traits and using them to educate and entertain her readers. In _Mosaic_ we were introduced to concert pianist Julia Austrian who was stricken with a rare psychological condition known as &quot;conversion disorder&quot;. In _Mesmerized_ we learn about a mind-body connection called cellular memory, and how thousands of heart transplant patients seem to receive tastes, memories and characteristics from their donors that cannot be explained by pure science. It`s up to you to decide if you believe this is all possible within the realm of the story. One thing is for sure...Lynds is an extremely talented writer who makes a defiant and realistic case, but after reading her notes you'll at least be assured that this is definitely not science fiction.<br />5 Stars. You just can't tie this particular knot any better. It's a terrific read.kes a defiant and realistic case, but after reading her notes you'll at least be assured that this is definitely not science fiction.<br />5 Stars. You just can't tie this particular knot any better. It's a terrific read.	2001-05-29
US	50975754	R2UDSA37WSCNJ5	0375500901	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	4	80	86	N	N	Silva proves he is still a pro...	Gabriel Allon is \\"the Kill Artist\\"; a former assassin who worked clandestinely for the Israeli government. When we first meet him he is living in a remote English seaside village and working as an art restorer, a cover he used frequently during his covert operations. He is soon called out of retirement by his former boss, Ari Shamron, head of Israeli intelligence, and a calculating man with his own agenda...one that may cost Gabriel his life. Ari needs Gabriel's talents to track down Tariq, an Palestinian assassin whose killing rampage is threatening the Middle East peace negotiations. Tariq and Gabriel have met before when Gabriel killed Tariq's brother in a very brutal manner, and Tariq avenged that death with a killing of his own...Gabriel's wife and son, making this a story of international intrigue and personal revenge.  The stage is now set for a major showdown, but they must first cover three continents and weave through an array of cultures and characters to find each other. Gabriel is assisted by his former intelligence co-worker, a beautiful French girl named Jacqueline, whose family was killed in the Holocaust. Jacqueline is hesitant to join Gabriel on this assignment, but in the end it is love that prevails, and she plunges head first into Tariq's lair, a deadly trap that Gabriel may not be able to get her out of in time to save her life.<br />What I love about Daniel Silva is his smooth and uncomplicated style. He has a &quot;rhythm&quot; to his writing that hooks you somewhere in the beginning and stays with you long after you finish the book.  It took me a little longer to warm up to these characters, probably because there isn't a lot happening in the way of relationships as there is in his other book _The Mark Of The Assassin_.  Everyone is hiding behind their own specific job and agenda. They're all business. Still, the plot is riveting and the pace is solid.<br />4 and 1/2 stars. Highly recommended. His protagonist doesn't quite involve the readers as in his past works but this is definitely worth a buy.s as in his past works but this is definitely worth a buy.	2001-05-29
US	50975754	R3F4W9PV7X0AX9	068816563X	722815389	Red Angel (Paul Devlin)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quite Entertaining with Skillful Plotting...	New York Police Detective Paul Devlin is back and in the midst of a Mafia showdown when he shifts gears and heads to Cuba with his girlfriend, Adrianna, after she learns that her aunt is dead and her body is missing. When they arrive in Cuba they are met by an overly attentive policeman named Martinez. He proceeds to tell them that Adrianna's (Devlin's girlfriend) aunt was a healer, staunch Castro ally and revolutionary war heroine that the Cuban people worshipped and nicknamed the &quot;Red Angel&quot;. He also believes that her body may have been stolen by a mysterious religious sect known as the Abakua to use as part of their voodoo rituals.<br />When the threesome set out to find the Red Angel's body, they confront the sinister head of the Cuban secret police, Colonel Cabrera, who says he wants to help, but is actually in cohoots with the Mafia henchmen that Devlin has been dealing with in New York.<br />So much for the beginning...the plot only thickens from this point on. There are so many twists, turns, political innuendos, and black magic to absorb in this book that you're guaranteed to lose some sleep, if not from the action, then certainly from trying to keep up with who's who and what's what.<br />Overall this was a very entertaining read. Although it does get bogged down with details in several spots, I made it to the end quite satisfied.<br />I would rate this 3 and 1/2 stars. The characters lack some depth, the explanations were a bit too long in spots, but Heffernan is a very smart writer who handles a ton of information and a very eager audience quite deftly.	2001-05-29
US	50975754	R2UHQAKPMV5R1	1582970637	690732983	Everyday Life in the 1800s: A Guide for Writers, Students & Historians (Writer's Guides to Everyday Life)	Books	5	83	83	N	N	EXCELLENT Reference Tool...Superbly Written and Detailed.	This reference guide is a MUST HAVE for all writers of historical fiction. Even fans of the genre will find the contents fascinating. Here is a sampling from the Table Of Contents...a simple summation here will not do this book true justice:<br />Slang and Everyday Speech: even includes swear words, euphemisms and Appalachian Speech -- and examples on how to use them!<br />Driving Customs: different modes of transportation (including wagons, carriages, stage coaches, canals, etc.)<br />Home Life: types of houses, furniture, lighting and housekeeping methods, etc.<br />Clothing and Fashion -- including a chronology of hairstyles (what FUN it was reading this!)<br />Careers and Occupations: including &quot;street vendor cries&quot; and child labor<br />Money and Currency: different currencies and their values (wish they had pictures!) Confederate Money, foreign currency and exchange<br />Health and Medicine: aside from the usual common illnesses and their treatments also included are quack remedies, medicines, premature burial<br />Common foods, alcoholic beverages, how they preserved foods and what it was like to hang out in a saloon  Different Pastimes, Games, sports and social customs,<br />Dating and marriage customs,<br />Slave customs and everyday life, including music and dialect. There is even a sidebar on the occupations of free blacks. I found it interesting that there were also Negro slave owners during this period -- see page 220!<br />The Civil War: practices, customs, weaponry, (very inclusive)<br />The Wild West: cowboys and their customs, regional slang, food and drink<br />Criminal activity, slang and common punishments<br />All in all everything you need to create a \\"filled to the brim\\" first draft is here. Use of this book will certainly cure any form of writer's block.<br />My favorite section is the Chronology of Events towards the back of the book (begins on page 283 of the hardcover edition). Here you will find very valuable timetables...from 1800-1900. Also included in this section is a Chronology of books, novels and magazines that were published during this time period; as well as inventions, songs and other noted innovations. The author then concludes the book with a resource guide to other references helpful to the historical writer.<br />Absolutely superb...Enjoy1800-1900. Also included in this section is a Chronology of books, novels and magazines that were published during this time period; as well as inventions, songs and other noted innovations. The author then concludes the book with a resource guide to other references helpful to the historical writer.<br />Absolutely superb...Enjoy	2001-05-02
US	50975754	R2EAL3VJLDGI04	0345434781	550733810	Gideon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Shocking And Explosive Thriller....	Carl Granville is a struggling New York City-based writer who has just received a most precarious offer. He is contracted by top editor Maggie Peterson to turn the contents of a top-secret diary into an instant work of fiction.  She mentions that this is a rush job of the highest order (\\"the kind of thing we usually save for terrorist attacks, wars, or dead royalty\\"), and once the secret manuscript is finished, it could literally change the course of history.  Carl is not told who the diary belongs to, just that the real owner wishes to remain anonymous and will be known simply as \\"Gideon\\".  He is instructed to speak to no one about the project (including Maggie who says officially he does not exist) and is not permitted to ask any questions about the confidential information that will be fed to him. In return for his silence, Carl will be paid six-figures and have one million copies of his ghost-written book printed.<br />Soon after Carl decides to take on the project, Maggie Peterson is murdered, and when he decides to come clean about the Gideon project (in an effort to cooperate with the authorities) he is told that there is no record of him or his project ever existing. That's when more people start dying and Carl becomes the prime suspect in all the murders.  The only person he can trust is his ex-girlfriend, journalist Amanda Mays, who has her own doubts about becoming personally involved with Carl again after a rather stormy relationship. Soon they are both thrown into a world of murder, greed and politics as they go underground to catch the real killers before Carl is caught himself.<br />Interestingly, Russell Andrews is a pseudonym for the writing duo of Peter Gethers and David Handler. Gideon is their first team effort and it is an exciting one. The book serves up an endless series of twists and turns that unravel over an exhausting 8 days.  Just when you think you have things figured out, the author(s) throw another curve ball your way. This is a sharp novel will keep you awake and guessing until the very end. I also enjoyed pondering the present day implications of this plot. The truth behind the world shattering secret is all too possible in today's high tech information hungry society.<br />Four stars because it missed the truly gifted mark ever so slightly...the ending was a bit bland when compared to the roller coaster ride Andrews provides between the covers, and the identity of the &quot;Closer&quot; was not very imaginative.  These minor details notwithstanding, this is definitely worth a buy.<br />Enjoy.novel will keep you awake and guessing until the very end. I also enjoyed pondering the present day implications of this plot. The truth behind the world shattering secret is all too possible in today's high tech information hungry society.<br />Four stars because it missed the truly gifted mark ever so slightly...the ending was a bit bland when compared to the roller coaster ride Andrews provides between the covers, and the identity of the &quot;Closer&quot; was not very imaginative.  These minor details notwithstanding, this is definitely worth a buy.<br />Enjoy.	2001-04-30
US	50975754	R2HAF843M42SO7	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	21	29	N	N	Talented Writer...Tedious Plot	This book has received over 100 reviews so I will not summarize the plot as I usually do.<br />I personally thought that this was more a showcase of the author's strong command of the English language rather than an engaging mystery. Believe me when I say Liss is a very talented and well-researched writer. His first person narrative effectively sweeps you back in time to 18th century London amid an atmosphere of money, greed and deceit. His style is so beautiful it is almost poetic. Unfortunately I wanted a thriller, a true &quot;action-packed&quot; piece -- and this fell woefully short of that in my humble opinion. Even after the first 150 pages the story seemed painfully stretched, and idle in many spots, but that doesn't mean it is not worth a buy; a true fan of historical fiction will not be disappointed with the author's writing. I just prefer a faster pace.<br />3 stars for absolutely beautiful narration...minus 2 for a tedious unraveling of the plot.	2001-04-26
US	50975754	R84K30QJOBKEZ	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Wonderful and Entertaining! A True Classic	This is the original BOOK ONE of the Chronicles of Narnia which introduces us to four siblings, Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy, all of whom are living in an old house with many rooms, one of which contains no other furniture except an old wardrobe. Lucy is the first to discover that the wardrobe is more than just an ordinary piece of furniture, and from there the adventure takes off to a faraway land known simply as Narnia. This is a story of how Good conquers Evil (in a most unusual and imaginative way!)and of how four children discover that they are more than just children.<br />I am still trying to figure out why this is listed as the SECOND book of the series when the copy I read lists it as the FIRST in the series, and rightfully so in my humble opinion. This particular title beautifully introduces the characters and sets the entire tone for the whole lot. C.S. Lewis has a poetic style of writing that dispenses quite a bit of information without losing the rhythm of the story. Truly a marvelous and engrossing tale.<br />Follow the original order and read this one first.<br />Enjoy.	2001-04-19
US	50975754	R2N93BZC0FTQIZ	0312205627	548913161	The Merchant's House-A Wesley Peterson Mystery	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Splendid! Absorbing and Unusual...	Well executed tale about Wesley Peterson, a black English detective in an interracial marriage, who moves his wife Pamela and his job from London to the English countryside. His first day on the Tradmouth police force presents Wesley with a gruesome murder and a seemingly unrelated case of a missing child. On the other side of town his long time friend and archeologist Neil (who happens to be Pamela's former lover) has unearthed an unidentified skeleton from what used to be a 17th century merchant`s house. Little does Wesley realize that the skeleton may be the key to solving his murder case, as well as the case involving the missing child.<br />Also intriguing is the 17th Century diary of John Banized, the merchant whose home Neil is now  excavating. We are greeted with excerpts from John's diary at the beginning of each chapter, and this creates a whole other story line that is just as compelling and suspenseful as the main plot.<br />I was fascinated by the multi layers of this novel.  Ellis very deftly draws the reader into two story lines simultaneously. The medieval plot of John Banized's infidelity and his ominous secret is unfolding just as rapidly as Wesley Peterson's missing child and murder cases.  There is also a premise that evolves around children...infertility, greed and desperation. But I won't say too much about that here. Just suffice it to say that this is a very well written and enjoyable mystery with unrelenting suspense. I consider it one of those rare finds that you always look forward to discovering on a rainy day.<br />Enjoy.	2001-04-03
US	50975754	R2160VKTZJNH6A	0875968228	945676549	Best All-Time Tips for Quilters	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Really Lives Up To Its Name!	This is a truly remarkable book!  I wish I had it when I first learned to quilt years ago. Loaded with great tips and beautiful photographs, this book will not just collect dust on your shelves with all your other quilting &quot;tips&quot; books; it truly is a rare find. I have put several of the tips and tricks presented into use already and it has made my quilting quicker, and more fun. Great gift for beginners (send it along with some fabric!)	2001-04-03
US	50975754	RMMGUY2NXO2OE	0865733252	255692321	Curtains (Seams Sew Easy)	Books	5	90	91	N	N	Great Book!	Beginners should be VERY encouraged after purchasing this book. The directions are written in plain english and the photographs are terrific step-by-step guides. Every project was presented in an easy-to-learn fashion, and they tell you exactly what you'll learn and what you'll need. A must for anyone who wants to learn and is frustrated by the lack of true beginner sewing books.<br />Enjoy.	2001-04-03
US	50975754	R3D376SDHFNJCS	1552095266	971827970	Lunch Box Letters: Writing Notes of Love and Encouragement to Your Children	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Precious and Inspiring!	What a wonderful idea! We are always rushing around in the morning and sometimes I never have the chance to say anything &quot;meaningful&quot; to my girls before they start their day. I purchased Lunch Box Letters at a school book fair and have been using them faithfully everyday.<br />In the preface the authors share why they write to their children, and they include sample letters, special hints and lots of colorful notepaper to give your creative juices a jolt. Each sheet has a headline at the top (&quot;I'm Sorry&quot;, &quot;Almost The Weekend&quot;, &quot;Let's Have Fun&quot;, &quot;Happy Birthday&quot;, &quot;You're A Terrific Kid&quot;, &quot;Miss You&quot;, etc.) and ample space for you to leave your own message. A fun riddle is also included at the bottom. There are also some blank lined sheets in the back of the book.<br />I was also pleased to read the number of ways the authors suggest you use letter writing to communicate with your children. A small handwritten note can really give kids a much needed emotional lift and ease pressures at school. They even include sample letters for specific (and delicate) situations such as dealing with a personal loss.<br />I definitely think this book is worth a buy. The advice and ideas you glean from the authors alone is worth the price, as is the gentle prompt it gives you to set a great example for your kids.<br />Enjoy.<br />Cris	2001-03-31
US	50975754	RROU2D1A0WGHY	0312203713	41199299	Suspension	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Spectacular...A First Class Debut!	In the Spring of 1883 Colonel Washington Roebling, with the help of his wife Emily, sets out to complete the world's largest suspension bridge that would span across the vast expanse of  New York's East River. What Roebling does not know is that a rogue group of former Confederate soldiers hold him personally responsible for a horrible incident that happened years ago on the battlefields of Gettysburg, and have labored for years to destroy his bridge.  When one of Roebling's workers is found dead in a dingy alley, a maverick detective named Tom Braddock is assigned to the case.  Tom is a good cop with a heart of gold, but his past is not exactly stellar. Not only does he  have to deal with the pressures of leading an unsolved murder investigation, but he must also contend with the saboteurs who are closer than ever to implementing their plans, officials within his own department who want to bury him in a life of corruption, and Mike, the dead man`s son who literally holds the key to solving this case.  If Tom can manage to stay alive, he might be able to save the bridge, and  possibly build a life with Mary, a beautiful, but unusual woman who keeps him both happy and sane.<br />From the riveting opening \\"nightmare\\" sequence to the final pages of mass hysteria that take place during the bridge's first opening days, Richard Crabbe does a tremendous job of transporting you into 19th century New York with a ghastly tale of murder and the building of the Brooklyn Bridge as his backdrop.<br />This is a top notch historical thriller that involves terrorism, police corruption, and bone-chilling suspense. It also includes a few surprises for Civil War buffs and those of us who never really appreciated the beauty of the Brooklyn Bridge. Caleb Carr fans will eat this one up and savor every morsel.<br />Masterfully done.	2001-03-31
US	50975754	R2KKX8FMNJRAKY	0385499035	515648474	The Program	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Recovery After A Shaky Beginning	New Orleans District Attorney Kirsten Lord watches helplessly as her husband is assassinated moments before they are to celebrate their anniversary at a posh New Orleans restaurant.  A condemned man's mother is killed in a car accident. He blames Kirsten because if she didn't prosecute him and win, his mother would have never been traveling on that road to visit him in jail.  Kirsten suddenly remembers how he  threatened her as he was being sent away to jail. \\"Every precious thing I lose, you will lose two.\\" .The first had been her husband. The second has to be her little girl. Now she and her daughter must enter the Witness Protection Program, the antithesis of everything she believes in...the very program she has publicly assaulted during her years as a prosecutor.  \\"The Program\\" may now be the only thing that can keep her and her daughter alive. She soon meets and befriends program veteran Carl Luppo, a mob assassin turned good guy, who tells her that someone may be leaking Kirsten's whereabouts to the wrong people. Now the only people she can trust are Carl, and her program-appointed psychologist Alan Gregory. Before this story is over people will die and many lives will be changed.<br />Once I muddled through the very shaky beginning, which included random changes of perspective, lackadaisical plotting and other languid unmentionables, I found this book to be quite a page turner.<br />Stephen White offers a story chock full of spicy dialog, engaging characters, and great little tidbits of information. I enjoyed witnessing the interplay among the characters, and Dr. Gregory's psych sessions were fascinating. A different type of work for this author that is nicely done, albeit the rocky start.<br />Stay with it and enjoy.<br />Cris	2001-03-22
US	50975754	R6KVPKWX7TCPD	0807282588	667539744	Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Jim Dale is A One Man Show!!!	I was introduced to the Harry Potter series when a relative suggested I listen to the TAPES before reading the books. In retrospect I think this is was VERY sound advice!<br />I would highly recommend others to do the same. A first time visitor to the series may become frustrated very quickly with the pronunciation of the various names and places, whereas listening to the tapes eliminates that chore completely and allows you to sit back and enjoy Jim Dale's incredible talent.<br />Don't think of this as a book-on-tapes series. Think of it as a one man show! Jim Dale performs over 125 voices with amazing skill, and recalls each and every one with ease throughout the entire series...The &quot;Hagrid&quot; you meet on the _Sorcerer's Stone_ tapes is the same \\"Hagrid\\" you revisit on the _Goblet Of Fire_ tapes.<br />Definitely worth the price...Just be sure to preview it before letting the kids listen to them. Jim Dale has a very pleasant and entertaining voice but this particular book is rather dark and scary. <br />Why only Four stars? Because of profanities in the beginning (One character says : \\"...No one at the bank gives a  d---  how I dress as long as I bring home plenty of treasure\\"...it is written on page 62 of the book). Why make a big deal out of it when it only appears once in the entire 800+ pages? Because in MY book once is too much.<br />Listen, I know people speak like this on a normal basis in the real world, but this is supposed to be a kid`s book.  J.K. Rowling has many adult fans also, but we are not the target market. <br />Just my opinion. <br />Cris	2001-03-22
US	50975754	R1HXPJDVBH0OJC	0786708220	979018861	A Dish Taken Cold	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A Very Nice read!	Three years after the storming of the Bastille, Celie's baby is found dead in his crib at the home of her friend Amandine. When Celie finds out that Amandine had in fact left the baby so that she may bed with her lover Georges, she plots revenge to repay the couple for their negligence. She sets out to have Georges arrested and  guillotined as a traitor. Her plans seem to be going well until they completely backfire on her placing everyone including herself in mortal danger.<br />This is my first experience with Anne Perry, and contrary to some opinions here, I quite enjoyed it. I don't think it is healthy to box a writer into a corner when they produce something different. So what if this is not vintage Perry. Her writing is still flawless. I felt as if I were transported to 18th Century Paris and learned quite a bit about life during this chaotic and terrifying time.<br />She's is obviously a very gifted and talented writer who had something different to share with us this time. I don't think that in and of itself makes her writing less efficient.<br />I definitely feel confident now about buying her other books.<br />Cris	2001-03-19
US	50975754	R207ER0ZGXY10O	0449225313	36438183	The Mark of the Assassin	Books	5	64	68	N	N	The Perfect Thriller...	A commercial jetliner is blown out of the skies over Long Island. A body is found during the recovery operation with three bullet holes to the face --  \\"the mark of the assassin\\" has just surfaced but his identity remains a mystery, even to the most  notorious underground figures. Enter Michael Osbourne, a senior CIA \\"case worker\\" (the preferred term for \\"spy\\").. Osbourne recognizes the assassin's mark as that of the man who killed his former lover and many high profile political figures.  As he gets closer and closer to finding the killer's identity, Osbourne becomes more entangled in the assassin's web, and unknowingly, places his life, and that of his entire family`s on the line.<br />Silva masterfully includes all the cookie cutter elements that genre fans want in a really good read: a solid (and very visual) education of international locales,  inside details of covert activities, rapid pace story telling, masterful plotting, lots of chasing, twisting and turning...but he adds something even more spectacular: a romantic undercurrent that humanizes the roles of the protagonist AND antagonist.  Silva beautifully weaves in two riveting love stories right under the surface of the main plot.<br />I have a couple of pet peeves (Elizabeth's whining throughout the first half of the book was particulary annoying) but they were immediately squashed as I raced throughout the night toward the last page.<br />If you enjoy fast-paced spy thrillers that take you on a whirlwind of espionage action all around the globe, then this is the book for you. The pace is relentless and the writing is flawless.<br />Enjoy.	2001-03-18
US	50975754	RBBTQU5XJOQNC	1563971895	987572424	Leah's Pony	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Simply Beautiful...	Not only is this book beautifully illustrated (the pictures are so detailed and colorful that they literally jump out of the book with each turn of the page), but it carries a poignant story about a family that pulls together through the efforts of a little girl and her pony.<br />Leah is a very smart farm girl who lives in the Great Plains during the Dust Bowl of the Great Depression. When her father cannot meet his loan obligations, the family farm has to be put up at auction. Leah's prize possession is her new pony (&quot;the best in the county&quot;) and she comes up with an ingenious plan on how to use the pony to save her family's farm.<br />This is a remarkable story about a very clever girl. I can't say too much without giving away the entire story, but suffice it to say that this is an educational, inspirational and artistic masterpiece that should be on every child's shelf.<br />An added bonus: the author includes a very good historical summary at the end of the book.<br />Enjoy.<br />Cris	2001-03-18
US	50975754	R3KUAFI63LX1UH	0028637275	908854107	The Unofficial Guide? to Walt Disney World? 2001 (Unofficial Guides)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Should Be The &quot;Official Guide&quot; - Don't Go Without This Book!	It's that good!<br />This is the ultimate guide to Disney without a doubt. If you have kids, are traveling solo, as a couple, or with anyone who has special needs, regardless of your age, this book covers the whole shebang.<br />It contains a tip for EVERY aspect of the Disney experience AND for every contingency. One of my favorite tips for preventing your stroller from being stolen (hint, tie a clear plastic bag onto to the stroller with a root beer-stained diaper in it -- guaranteed no one will go near it! More like this in Part Five - Traveling with Kids).<br />My favorite part was the rating system on all the attractions: Included are the name of the attraction, exactly what it is (water ride, outdoor walking exhibit, song and dance show, etc.), the scope of the ride (minor vs. major attraction), best time to go, author's rating and most importantly -- how the ride appeals to certain age groups. There are also interviews and surveys with patrons who have visited this particular ride.<br />Laced with humor and very comprehensive... I felt familiar with the entire experience before my family even experienced it!<br />I wish I could give it 10+ stars.<br />Enjoy Disney with this as your guide.	2001-03-18
US	50975754	R1SNT29OLSPTC8	0440428130	732421290	Freckle Juice	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Sweet And Very Funny...	See story summary above.<br />Wonderful story about a grade school boy who desperately wants to look like someone else, and in the end learns to love himself just the way he is. Wonderful way for children to learn respect and self-esteem.<br />Should be required reading for grades K-3.	2001-03-15
US	50975754	R2TY1PW44JI6GM	0380786702	822675048	Undone	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Blistering, Seductive Read	Undone is a naughty little novel drenched with wicked characters doing equally wicked deeds. This story is dark and mesmerizing at the same time. You can't help but feel for Sal. He's a devoted family man who becomes an unwilling participant in his best friend's \\"death scheme\\". As the story progresses we are witnesses to a small town drama filled with murder, betrayal and seduction. A classic &quot;in the wrong place at the wrong time&quot; type of story that will keep you guessing until the very end. Read this on a day when you have lots of uninterrupted time.<br />Four stars for the unrelenting pace and unforgettable characters.<br />Cris	2001-03-15
US	50975754	R30NAXKEVHAS9R	0965694852	451794091	In His Image: Book One of The Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Stay with it...Don�t expect a silver bullet until the end	I was drawn to this book because of its premise, and because I also read the first book of the Left Behind series. Be warned that this book is dramatically different...the characters are more fully developed, as is the plot, and the content is geared towards a mainstream audience.<br />During the first 100 pages or so the author painstakingly lays the foundation for the entire trilogy. This is NOT a fast-paced thriller by any means, but it is a startling account of the end times that will challenge you intellectually with shocking, vivid references, and over 200 footnotes. Just when you think you don't get where this book is going, you realize that the whole plot is unfolding right before your eyes.  A neat trick by a cunning author.<br />Four Stars because of its use of scientific facts and true-life accounts. BeauSeigneur masterfully weaves these details into a work of fiction that is not only believable, but shocking...and from a literary viewpoint, his writing is flawless.<br />Enjoy.<br />Cris	2001-03-15
US	50975754	R3HGT5QOLBCX8E	0439087171	938411642	Read To Your Bunny (Max & Ruby)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Delightful...with a very strong and urgent message	This book should be on every expectant parents list!<br />It is beautifully illustrated and written in simple language, yet it carries a powerful message. Reading is a wonderful way of sharing a part of our busy lives with our children, and it only &quot;costs twenty minutes and a library card&quot;. Rosemary Wells also includes a two-page message to parents at the end of the book that tells us how and why we should should reserve a special time and place for reading activities with our children.<br />The message in this book will stay with you long after you finish it...It can serve as a daily reminder and as a daily source of encouragement as we lure our children into the magical world of reading.<br />A truly wonderful book....<br />Cris	2001-03-13
US	50975754	R3S6HEESTBKCOA	0312252897	471465284	The Widow Killer: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Convincing and very satisfying...A Wonderful book!	Endearing, suspenseful and very romantic....wonderful characters, a vivid pictorial of wartime Czechoslovakia and very suspenseful detective action. Had me guessing until the very shocking end. I could not put it down. I kept wanting to re-visit the action and characters.<br />Simply a terrific read. Expect to stay with this one until the wee hours of the morning.<br />Cris	2001-03-07
US	50975754	R1WYPU58ZXOGSX	0439213584	988360838	Tummy Trouble (Clifford the Big Red Dog) (Big Red Reader Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kids will LOVE this book!	My 8-year old daughter was having trouble with her reading. It got to the point where she hated picking up a book, which distressed me greatly because I am a compulsive reader. However, she did love to watch the shows on PBS kids and when she spotted this book at a school book fair she was wild with excitement.<br />Originally I balked when she asked me to buy it. I thought it was below her grade level, but we bought it anyway and she enjoys it immensely!  It is based on an actual episode form PBS and has a very good lesson built in as well. It reads easy, but is not boring.<br />What a pleasure it is to see her reading enthusiastically again. We now own several Clifford books, she has progressed to more difficult chapter books, and we are all reading happily ever after!<br />Don't deny your child something that can change them forever.	2001-03-06
US	50975754	RFJ6RBZQNT293	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Excellent book...easy to digest and gets you RESULTS!	I found this to be a very helpful and inspirational book. Bill Phillips sits you down and gives you a step-by-step system for achieving RESULTS. I like his easy-going style and the way he relays his knowledge to readers without overwhelming them. I actually read the book through twice, took meticulous notes, and then called his company EAS to drill the representatives on the different techniques presented. They were ALL very courteous and extremely helpful. Some even took the time to share their personal experiences with me regarding their weight loss or exercise routines. I was then led to the company website for further information, and received a couple of videos and books for my trouble. Not only that, I was told that I could call anytime with any type of question and there would be someone there to give me a detailed answer, or at least lead me in the right direction. Now for a novice like me, who needed the emotional as well as the technical support, this meant a lot.<br />One last note: I am not a nutrition or fitness guru. I don't know all the players out there, but I have to say that I am really impressed with Bill Phillips. He is more than a trainer and corporate owner, he's a crusader. This guy is really into fitness, and he's really into people. I know that it is probably all a marketing strategy, but is a very effective one. This man is serious about your success. The people at EAS really make you feel like they care about you. I'm inclined to believe that they really do!<br />Highly recommended.<br />Cris	2001-03-05
US	50975754	R1RQB5PCF7Y6AD	1575844079	164820766	Make It Special!: Friendship Book and Craft Kit (Barbie Friendship Craft Kit)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Cute Activity Book	I bought this at a school book fair for my 4-year-old daughter and her friend. They loved it, but I think that had to do with it being a &quot;Barbie&quot; thing more than an activity book.Many of the &quot;activities&quot; were too difficult for them (requires a lot of writing).<br />This is basically a paper crafts book. It contains several card crafts, 2 friendship books, a double picture frame, craft paper, letter paper and instructions. The book can also serve as a folder after all the activities are completed. It is very pretty and sturdy.<br />I would recommend this for girls in first grade and up. They must know how to form their letters well and think creatively in order to get the most out of the crafts.<br />Not bad. Helps to kill about 2 hours!<br />Cris	2001-03-05
US	50975754	R15OOSPLZG4ELE	0192834622	532332380	The Tenant of Wildfell Hall (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	What a surprise!  A wonderful and engrossing story.	This is the story of Helen Graham, a mysterious and fiercely independent woman living in a secluded castle during the 19th Century in Victorian England.<br />Helen, along with her son Arthur, is a recluse, and soon becomes the topic of town gossip. She is befriended by Gilbert Markham, who at first is received very coldly by Helen, but he is persistent and wins her trust. It becomes clear that Gilbert has developed intimate feelings for Helen, and although we can guess that she feels the same for him, she is determined to convince him that this is not a proper match. So she gives Gilbert her diary, which vividly details her abusive marriage to Arthur Huntington, an alcoholic and debaucher. Although this may sound like a depressing topic (which it is), Bronte's talent is what makes the book so absorbing and satisfying. She incorporates all the necessary ingredients to sufficiently whet your appetite, (romance, suspense, and a plethora of plot twists and turns) and provides a very satisfying, albeit, surprise ending.<br />This is a book I will read again and again. It is a real treasure.<br />By the way, I was told that the Oxfords Classics edition is the best one to buy. It contains a preface by Ann Bronte and the letter to J. Halford Esq. in the beginning, instead of just starting with Chapter One (&quot;You must go back with me&quot;). These were in Anne's original text, and in my opinion, add quite a bit to the entire work.<br />Highly recommended, especially for book clubs.<br />Cris	2001-03-05
US	50975754	R3FQ9NWIVH7QOG	055310893X	54175040	The Cutout	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Relentless Suspense...I couldn't put it down!	While giving a controversial speech in Berlin, the Vice President of the United States is kidnapped by a known group of neo-nazi terrorists. What is surprising and shocking to CIA analyst Caroline Carmichael is that one of the extremists appears to be her dead husband, also a CIA agent, who was supposedly killed years ago in a plane crash.<br />The Cutout is drenched with international intrigue, espionage,  biological terrorism, vivid details of what it is like to work inside the CIA (thanks to the author's real-life work experience as an analyst), maps of eastern and central Europe (as to not lose the reader geographically), and marvelous psychological suspense.<br />Francine Mathews clearly knows her stuff and she does a terrific job of leading us through the maze of espionage activities from the vantage point of one who has worked in this arena, without losing our interest. Actually, the only thing I lost while reading this book was about 6 hours of sleep!<br />Well worth it, I might add.<br />Highly recommended.<br />Cris	2001-03-03
US	50975754	R2HGSFPOBEWGPV	031224651X	204671530	The Man With My Cat	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A roaring good time!	Phil Moony inherits two precious things from his father, a cat and a car. He desparately wants to ditch the cat, but as the story opens, every time he works up enough nerve to do so, he backs down. Finally, the cat is one step closer to being laid to rest, but it is stolen, and the vet chosen to do the dasterdly deed ends up dead instead.<br />This is a charming, witty story filled with terrific dialogue, colorful characters and delightful mayhem.<br />Fast reading. Wonderful writing and dialogue.<br />Cris	2001-03-02
US	50975754	RZ1SBU3N5X3NK	0696208644	803111512	Waverly Inspirations: Your Guide to Personal Style	Books	5	8	8	N	N	EXCELLENT...Very helpful	I have always loved Waverly products. When I came across this book in the library I grabbed it out of curiosity and absolutely loved it!  Finally, a book that takes you through the home decorating process step-by-step in with easy to understand details. Before you even learn about color, that authors ask that you take a few simple (and fun) quizzes that help you hone in on your style.<br />The great thing about the quizzes is that they are actually personality profiles, meaning they revolve around your lifestyle...how you presently live and the daily choices you presently make. There is no discussion of what colors you like, whether you prefer country or contenporary, etc., until you have actually finished the personality profile. Besides, most people aren't aware of the fact that their home SHOULD be a reflection of how they live, they just want it to look nice!<br />Then the discussion on basic decorating techniques (beginning with a great primer on the color wheel, complementary colors, colors that reflect mood, etc.) begins and you start the journey of developing your own personal style. The information is presented in an simple, entertaining manner and the photos are gorgeous!<br />This book was a TREMENDOUS help for me when I became frustrated with my present decor and wanted a change (but I didn't know in  which direction to go and I certainly didn't want to waste a lot of money). I highly recommend it, you'll refer to it often, even as you make the slightest changes around your own home.<br />Enjoy.<br />Cris	2001-03-02
US	50975754	RGJS7B94XPLNM	044991173X	77856961	Hollow Hills (Arthurian Saga)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Merlin Comes To Life!...Beautiful and Enchanting tale	Merlinus Ambrosius, gifted physician and enchanter is vividly brought to life in this historical fiction by Mary Stewart. The gift of this book is how Stewart &quot;humanizes&quot; all of the characters, she literally brings them to life right before our eyes and the results are unforgettable.<br />This is a painstakingly detailed account of the pre Camelot legend from Merlin's prospective. There is no better telling of the rise of King Arthur, and you will have chills when you read Stewart's account of the how he pulled the sword from the stone. It's as if you are right there in the midst of the action. The entire book is mesmerizing!<br />Every page is drenched in imagery and descriptive detail. Mary Stewart has a very sharp pen, and a strong command of the english language. She tells a fascinating and beautiful tale. Don't miss this one.<br />Four stars because it moves slow, but is well worth your time.<br />Cris	2001-03-02
US	50975754	R2F3S1501T6DL9	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A hilariously good time!	&quot;You've got a pip of a life,&quot; Grandma said. &quot;Never a dull moment. Fast cars, fast men, fast food. I wouldn't mind having a life like that.&quot;<br />And grandma means it. She sets out (bless her heart) to have a life just LIKE that!<br />Think of Hot Six as a mystery drenched in comic relief. Stephanie Plum is an unusual heroine with an unusual job description. She is a bounty hunter. She is also surrounded by a cast of unusual and very indiscreet characters, her &quot;on-again-off-again&quot; love interest police officer Joe Morelli, her 200+ pound side kick Lula, her &quot;mentor-turned-murder-suspect&quot; Ranger (who also contributes to her self-diagnosed &quot;nymphomania&quot;), a dog named Bob who has a ghastly eating disorder, and her less than cooperative grandmother who temporarily moves in on her (and tries to mimic Stephanie's sex life). This makes for one roaring good time, but lest we forget, there is still a mystery to be solved here!<br />And a whopping good mystery it is...Stephanie is forced to help her mentor, the man who taught her everything she knows about &quot;fugitive apprehension&quot; try to clear his name as a murder suspect. She also has to shoo away the killers who are trying to track her down, and avoid blowing up another car. You'll have fun keeping track of all the antics and mayhem, as well as the seriousnness of the case she is trying to solve.<br />With all the laughs in the first few pages, it's hard to believe that this could get any funnier, (just wait until grandma moves in...)but this book had me rolling right until the last page. The ending with Bella and Mrs Morelli nearly set me into a permanent laughing fit.<br />I was impressed with how Evanovich moved the plot along as well as the comedic dialogue. Her characters are very colorful, the plot is solid and the pace is smooth. This was a major departure for me, but I thoroughly enjoyed the diversion and can't wait to get my hands on Evanovich's next Stephanie Plum adventure!<br />Highly recommended...even for you fellow &quot;suspense-thriller&quot; loyalists!<br />Crisphanie Plum adventure! <br />Highly recommended...even for you fellow &quot;suspense-thriller&quot; loyalists!<br />Cris	2001-02-28
US	50975754	R3HPN40YO8TUPA	0743211936	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A wonderful, wonderful story...	What a beautifully written book! It has some gritty details in it, but it intimately brings to light what life was really like while growing up in the Deep South during the Depression. Impressive to hear how in the midst of all the confusion and turmoil he experienced as a child, his love for family and close friends never wavered.<br />I especially enjoyed reading about the simple things he took joy in doing and experiencing. I have a new found respect for the former President, and for the simple pleasures in life that I now want to relish in and pass along to my children.<br />Magnificent. Highly recommended.<br />Cris	2001-02-25
US	50975754	R1FLTEGJLE8Y6P	0786866845	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival at the South Pole	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What a shocking, absorbing story of survival!	Quite honestly, this is not the best written book I have ever read, but it's still a real page turner, and it certainly stands alone as one of the most pivotal. Dr. Jerri's determination to beat the odds is not some re-hashed, worn out tale of survival, it is an intimate account of how a woman whose proverbial back is against the wall, pulls herself up by the bootstraps and empowers herself to live, all while trying to basically survive in a very cold, barron environment. What I liked about this book is the lesson that we are all a lot stronger than we give ourselves credit for.<br />When I finished reading this book I realized a couple of things: (1) good health is the greatest wealth we could ever hope for and (2) be grateful...if you think you've got a lot of problems, just remember that someone out there always has it a lot worse than you do.<br />I am grateful for this story, and for Dr. Jerri sharing a bit of her strength and herself with all of us.<br />Cris	2001-02-25
US	50975754	R2V9X283O7FWRS	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A hilariously good time!	&quot;You've got a pip of a life,&quot; Grandma said. &quot;Never a dull moment. Fast cars, fast men, fast food. I wouldn't mind having a life like that.&quot;<br />And grandma means it. She sets out (bless her heart) to have a life just LIKE that!<br />Think of Hot Six as a mystery drenched in comic relief. Stephanie Plum is an unusual heroine with an unusual job description. She is a bounty hunter. She is also surrounded by a cast of unusual and very indiscreet characters, her &quot;on-again-off-again&quot; love interest police officer Joe Morelli, her 200+ pound side kick Lula, her &quot;mentor-turned-murder-suspect&quot; Ranger (who also contributes to her self-diagnosed &quot;nymphomania&quot;), a dog named Bob who has a ghastly eating disorder, and her less than cooperative grandmother who temporarily moves in on her (and tries to mimic Stephanie's sex life). This makes for one roaring good time, but lest we forget, there is still a mystery to be solved here! <br />And a whopping good mystery it is...Stephanie is forced to help her mentor, the man who taught her everything she knows about &quot;fugitive apprehension&quot; try to clear his name as a murder suspect. She also has to shoo away the killers who are trying to track her down, and avoid blowing up another car.  You'll have fun keeping track of all the antics and mayhem, as well as the seriousnness of the case she is trying to solve.<br />With all the laughs in the first few pages, it's hard to believe that this could get any funnier, (just wait until grandma moves in...)but this book had me rolling right until the last page. The ending with Bella and Mrs Morelli nearly set me into a permanent laughing fit.<br />I was impressed with how Evanovich moved the plot along as well as the comedic dialogue. Her characters are very colorful, the plot is solid and the pace is smooth. This was a major departure for me, but I thoroughly enjoyed the diversion and can't wait to get my hands on Evanovich's next Stephanie Plum adventure!<br />Highly recommended...even for you fellow &quot;suspense-thriller&quot; loyalists<br />Cris	2001-02-24
US	50975754	R1BMDZOO7HB6L8	0743203631	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story Of A Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Masterpiece	Let's just say that this is definitely not &quot;beach reading&quot; material, unless you like to visit the hardships and sorrows of a young mountain woman in a rough marriage while you soak in some rays. But don't let that put you off. Robert Morgan is a master storyteller.<br />This story about the complications and intimacy of marriage is nothing short of riveting. I came away feeling a strange sort of kinship with Julie (I want to meet her!) Wow, what a woman! She is remarkable, in a quiet sort of way, and although she is uneducated and inarticulate, it didn't take long for her to earn my respect.<br />Again, this is not your usual cozy &quot;pleasure&quot; book, but it is one of the most extraordinary novels I have ever read. This is the type of book that immerses you fully during its duration and then haunts you lovingly long after you put it down. Don't miss this experience. It grabs you and doesn't let go.<br />Male or female, I recommend it highly.<br />Cris	2001-02-22
US	50975754	R1GS271ND171SF	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The best  in the series thus far!!!!!	Think of this as a suspense novel filled with wizards, magic, and all sorts of strange, intriguing creatures.<br />Rowling is incredible. Her writing is better than ever with this third installment. There is no &quot;factory&quot; atmosphere here. Her work just keeps getting better and better. The characters are maturing nicely and the story lines, although simple, are suspenseful and riveting! She has a knack for great endings full of surprises, confrontation, and second guessing.<br />This is her best yet. I was up until 3:30 am with this book and when it was all over, I was wanting Harry to stay at MY house for the summer!<br />My favorite chapter -- Hermione's secret.<br />Make time to read this one for sure!<br />Cris	2001-02-22
US	50975754	R2HIRXPPGDN1EX	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Addicting!	It's not the characters or the plot that makes this fabulously entertaining, it's the genius of J.K. Rowling.<br />She is extremely funny (her sense of humor really shines in the later installments) and has an incredible imagination. Her writing is masterful. She weaves a very light, funny, and engaging story.<br />Her characters are lovable, the settings are extraordinary (you'll want to jump right into the book and walk alongside Harry) and the ending leaves you breathless and panting for more.<br />This is not your typical &quot;good guy vs. bad guy&quot; plot in kiddie book form. This is J.K. Rowling's world. Young and old, male and female, doesn't matter. She has a universal audience.<br />I loved this book so much that I going to splurge on a collector's edition for myself. It's THAT good.<br />Mark my words, YOU WILL BE HOOKED TOO!<br />Cris<br />P.S. Pick up the tapes and read along. You'll have a double dose of pleasure and Jim Dale is terrific with the voices.	2001-02-22
US	50975754	R3FGC18UPL1PVE	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Terrific Sequel...	Harry's adventures (and J.K. Rowling's ingenius writing) continues with this second installment. No disappointments here. Although the story sagged a bit in the middle (just a bit!), this one was just as good as the first.<br />Terrific plot twists and vivid imagery. It was wonderful to get re-acquainted with some old friends and meet new ones...and as always, I love how Rowling depicts the Dursleys. She has a great sense of humor.<br />The first chapter will have you in stitches.<br />Get this one!<br />Cris	2001-02-22
US	50975754	RFO2RAF4K3YBY	1885904088	778773732	The Excellent Wife: A Biblical Perspective	Books	5	180	217	N	Y	A bold statement in today's world!	Martha Peace really knows how to tell it like it is! She gives you a good dose of tough love that is fully backed by scripture and never appears argumentative. She shares her testimony with us right up front, so we  understand where she was in her walk and why she felt inspired to write  this book.<br />The book starts off by covering foundational truths about  God, sin and marriage, then focuses on the wife's responsibilities (1) to  Christ, (2) in her home, and (3) to her husband. The core of the book is on  the &quot;s&quot; word (submission), and I appreciated the way Peace  handled the topic. She also includes a great section that helps a wife  overcome any communication or conflict-solving challenges she may have. She  even talks about dealing with fear, loneliness and anger (a big one for  me!).<br />All in all this was a really great read. I learned quite a bit and  I still refer to it often. I must say that this book has really helped my  marriage blossom, and it has given me a direction for my own life that I  didn't have before.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking  into this subject. It was good reading and you didn't feel as if someone  was &quot;preaching&quot; at you.<br />Cris	2000-07-12
US	50975754	R2Z365W61KZDFU	0312264372	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor: A Covert-One Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	TREMENDOUS!  This book is &quot;vintage&quot; Ludlum!	In a nutshell, this book is sharp, fast and moves at lightningspeed all over the globe.<br />To be quite honest, Robert Ludlum had mea bit worried with his last four efforts but he has redeemed himself with the Hades Factor (with the help of Gayle Lynds, of course). This book is good...I mean reeeeally good!<br />Don't let the plot summary turn you off. Forget the fact that this has been played out before and leave your worries at the door. This duo pounces on you with a story line you will never forget.<br />The Hades Factor delivers everything you want in an international thriller plus more; clandestine meetings in exotic locations (including a few unusual and truly beautiful respites on US soil), three-dimensional characters that literally bounce off every page, and a skillfully written plot that moves at warp speed. This is definitely NOT one for the faint of heart! Ludlum and Lynds will take you on a literary roller coaster of intrigue and deception that will leave you breathless...and with a renewed sense of the true meaning of forgiveness (yes, he has turned a bit sentimental on us, but it works!)<br />This was truly a great read. It will become a permanent fixture in my library and I look forward to picking it up again someday. Ludlum and Lynds truly deliver...DON'T MISS THIS ONE!	2000-07-09
US	50975754	R2UXQLN84NE72W	1570713383	307169771	Unstoppable: 45 Powerful Stories of Perseverance and Triumph from People Just Like You	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Extraordinary....even after my third reading!	For the record, I picked up this book about two years ago for the first  time, and I have read it in its entirety twice since then. This is a  masterpiece. You will never forget these stories.<br />Through the stories of  ordinary people who have accomplished extraordinary things, Cynthia Kersey  gives you insight into your own potential for greatness. This is not just  another &quot;come on, you can do it&quot;-type of book. The people  highlighted in this book are real. They are just like you and me, but they  live with &quot;purpose that ignites the spirit&quot;. They probably never  thought of themselves as &quot;great&quot;, and perhaps they never set out  to be highlighted in a book like this, but they are...and for good reasons  Kersey painstakingly outlines at the end of each chapter (Your Personal  Action Plan). Her writing is taunt and flawless. A companion workbook is  also available and I would advise anyone to make good use of it. Let  Cynthia show you how and WHY you should!<br />This is definitely a book that  you will refer to again and again, as I have. It can give you the renewed  faith and conviction you need to get up every day and follow your dreams.  You'll never think of yourself as ordinary again!	2000-07-09
US	50975754	R1FSDYIES379Y6	1891279017	574472330	Attitude is Everything	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	Jeff Keller is the Zen Master of Personal Achievement	This is a very easy-to-read book that packs a powerful punch. Jeff Keller has skipped over the fluff and delivers a very practical and insightful step-by-step recipe for expanding your vision of yourself and your world.  If you follow Jeff's recommendations, and take notice of how he has applied  these same principles in his own life, there is no limit to what you can  accomplish. Thanks to his very persuasive pen, and his good dose of tough  love, we all have access to solid principles of personal achievement that  WORK! You'll want to grab this book and be sure to cancel all your  appointments when it arrives. I'll definitely be recommending this little  gem to all my coaching clients.	1999-09-23
