US	50977525	R12OPPNSHBMS7C	0300102852	33723088	Little Boy: The Arts of Japans Exploding Subculture	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Little Boy: a book of exceptional beauty and social importance	\\"Little Boy: The Arts of Japan's Exploding Subculture\\" is far and away the most beautifully-designed and edgiest book ever issued by the Japan Society in New York.  At the same time, it is the most significant.  That the bilingual \\"Little Boy\\" catalogue is so stunningly beautiful and up-to-the minute reflects the fact that it was edited and produced in Japan by the graphics artists driving the trends it documents.  The art it examines is, as Alexandra Monroe of the Japan Society puts it, a superflat \\"cartoon imagery of exploding mushroom clouds, fantastic mutant monsters, and baby-faced cyborg heroines.\\"  This art bears some resemblance to that of Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein, but even the art of these two icons cannot begin to hint at the revolution in graphic design that has occurred in Japan.  Nor can their art prepare us for the revolution of meaning that this graphic art has assumed for the Japanese of the late 20th and early 21st centuries.    And it is this last point that brings us to the seminal importance of \\"Little Boy\\" as both a book and exhibition.       To return to Munroe's essay, with which readers may prefer to begin the book, in countries other than Japan animated films, cartoon-like graphics, and comic books are typically associated with children alone.  In Japan, in contrast, these art forms have been appropriated by adults as well as the art mainstream.  Of greatest importance, they have become a major means by which the Japanese are attempting to deal with the dual traumas of the 1945 atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the postwar dependency that a US-written constitution imposed on Japan as a player on the world stage.  If such traumas were being reflected in the graphic arts alone, this phenomenon would be perhaps no more than an interesting oddity.  Nearly everyday, however, attempts to grapple with the same issues are being played out on the political stage, be it in the context of a prime ministerial visit to the Yasukuni Shrine for the war dead or Japan's agonizing over how to respond to the apparent nuclearization of the Korean peninsula.  It is tempting to ascribe these political developments to a renascent right-wing fringe.  \\"Little Boy\\" is, however, a wake-up call telling us that the population as a whole is wrestling with issues of how their nation should be defined.	2005-07-19
US	50977525	R2EIVA07AYZ8PZ	0275962962	743234094	Kim Il-song's North Korea:	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	critical baseline study for measuring change in north korea	As another reviewer appropriately noted in assessing this book, \\"Kim Il-song's North Korea\\" is now 25+ years out of date.  Because of this, Helen-Louise Hunter's study--edited down from a longer, classified report that she prepared while working at the Central Intelligence Agency--offers little meat for assessing the personal style and leadership track record of Kim Chong-il, who succeeded his father--Kim Il-song--as the absolutist leader of North Korea in 1994.  Still, the book is a must-read for any scholar or journalist seeking to estimate the likelihood of future social collapse and regime change and/or to establish how much policy change Kim Chong-il has initiated.    The raw material of \\"Kim Il-song's North Korea\\" was meticulously culled from thousands of intelligence reports, most from defectors, which documented life in the North Korea of the mid-1970s, and this material is presented in a descriptive, generally non-judgmental manner. To the degree that any period in North Korea can be called a golden age, it was the years covered here.  P'yongyang's social contract with the populace--the government will meet your basic economic and welfare needs if you cede to us all decisionmaking authority and forego any personal liberties--was basically intact at this time.  So too were the country's industrial infrastructure and its tight controls on the physical movement of the citizenry, and serious questions of political stability rarely arose.  Outrage over Kim Chong-il's leadership style had not yet crystallized and Kim Il-song was seen as a demigod who had helped liberate Korea from Japan's colonial occupation.    As even the most casual observer of North Korea today knows, the relative political and economic stability of the 1970s are long past, and for a dynamic understanding of North Korea in the 21st century, \\"Kim Il-song's North Korea\\" cannot stand alone.  Neither, however, can we mine the full richness of more current books, including the gripping testamentsof defectors, without referring back to Hunter's pathbreaking work.	2005-04-09
US	50977525	R2GTAUFSHJ4W9N	0878466681	52344707	Art of the Japanese Postcard: Masterpieces fom the Leonard A. Lauder Collection	Books	5	7	7	N	N	minor league art form given major league treatment	Score another home run for Boston's Museum of Fine Arts for recognizing the importance of the Lauder collection of Japanese postcards and then producing a significant book to commemorate the 2004 exhbition of these miniature masterpieces.  The MFA has again assembled a cast of formidable experts to provide both historical and artistic perspective for the late 19th- and early 20th-century postcards produced by many of Japan's leading artists.  It is thus the case that the text chapters that open \\"Art of the Japanese Postcard: Leonard A. Lauder Collection at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston\\" help guide the reader through the changes in graphic art and design that followed Japan's opening to the West and the death of the classic \\"ukiyoe\\"-style woodblock art.<br /><br />The postcards themselves are stunning, meriting repeated voyages through this beautifully designed and printed volume. And there are numerous other reasons to savor the images.  For example, the cards that appear as numbers 9 through 60 in the catalogue/book all reflect Japan's contemporaneous take on the Russo-Japanese war of 1904-05.  Then there are chapters that demonstrate the impact of the West's Art Nouveau and Art Deco movements on Japanese art sensibilities. Three other cards, my favorites, illustrate famous \\"haiku\\" poems, with the artist, Saito Shoshu, using the themes of the cards to stylize the calligraphy with which the poems are rendered.  Delight here in a snail's slime trail blended into calligraphic brushwork, an underwater scene in which the calligraphy takes on a very fluid style, and a poem broken up to refelct the hopping of a frog.	2005-01-15
US	50977525	R2U9IZY7F4A6BZ	9074822622	253988251	The Sketchbook: 80 Unique Designs by the World's Finest Tattoo Artists	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	graphic gems from tattoo artists: a pathbreaking book	Rarely has the tattoo art form enjoyed a presentation in a volume as remarkable as Heimburger and Bratt's \\"The Sketchbook: 80 Unique Designs by the World's Finest Tattoo Artists.\\"  For starters, the \\"Sketchbook\\" does not feature photographs of tattooed bodies but rather brings together a set of original graphic designs produced by artists expressly for this collection. Then there is the beauty and quality of the book itself, which has been published by Hotei, the Leiden-based publisher best known for its first-class books on Japanese prints. <br /> <br />Most of the artists represented in the \\"Sketchbook\\" are fairly young and, with the exception of several members of the Leu Family of Lausanne, are not yet well-known.  Their work is complex, however, and the short autobiographies provided by each artist provide insights into the special world and close relationships of the international community's best tattoo practitioners.  Traditional Japanese tattoo themes dominate the graphic work, but fans of modern art in general will note and enjoy the resemblance of much of the work to that of the 20th-century surrealists and even to the specialized art genre known as exquisite corpses.  Indeed, the artwork presented is so fascinating and potentially rich in symbolism that I wish it had been displayed at The Drawing Center in New York's Soho district and introduced by scholars of modern graphic art.	2004-11-03
US	50977525	R1Y1WTGB8KQ5FD	1568360290	357399842	The World of the Shining Prince: Court Life in Ancient Japan (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	a brilliant, enduring study of classical Japan	Although forty years have passed since the first publication of Ivan Morris' \\"The World of the Shining Prince,\\" no other book has appeared that can challenge either its elegance or its utility in introducing a Western audience to the glories of Heian-period Japan. Although written to provide cultural context for readers of the 11th-century \\"Tale of Genji\\" novel, Morris' study has serendipitously come to serve as well the growing legions of Westerners fascinated by Japanese religion, fashion and textiles, art, military sports, and fantasy folklore.  <br /> <br />\\"The World of the Shining Prince\\" begins by looking at the broad political and societal nature of the Heian period (794-1185).  It then works toward an increasingly specific examination of the \\"Tale of Genji\\" itself and the novel's author, Murasaki Shikibu.  Along the way, individual chapters are devoted to those aspects of Heian culture that feature prominently in the book, namely religion, superstitions, the court elites, the cult of beauty, and the role of women.  Appendices, meanwhile, provide welcome genealogical tables and a glossary.	2004-09-21
US	50977525	R1LQ6D5ZCON9C4	0865659974	74130490	Body Decoration: A World Survey of Body Art	Books	5	3	3	N	N	celebrate: the ultimate book on body decoration	\\"Body Decoration: A World Survey of Body Art\\" is breathtaking, a remarkable publishing achievement that weds spectacular photographs and highly readable expert text.  Societies located far and wide appear in this book, for traditions of decorating the human body date back thousands of years and include the use of painted designs, scarification, piercing, manipulation of hair, sporting of accessories, application of makeup, oils, and mud, and tattooing.  Body decorations covered range from those used by multiple persons in the communal settings of Africa, South Asia, South America, and Oceania, to the theatrically-coded decoration of East Asia, and  more recent personalized, individual uses in the West.  Illustrations come from color photographs of 20th century activities; reproduced paintings and book graphics (especially where certains traditions, such as those among American Indians, are now lost); sculptural, traditional art that demonstrates the use of body decoration; and even maps. Dozens upon dozens of photographic sources have been used, with such giants as Alfred Eisenstadt and Leni Riefenstahl numbered among them.  Feast your eyes, nourish your spirit, and celebrate both the glory of human diversity and the wonder of our shared, deep-rooted instinct to decorate our bodies.	2004-08-14
US	50977525	R1N8LPO3H2VG8Y	0312267843	610899800	Tattoo	Books	5	12	14	N	N	a joyous celebration of the decorated body	If you are, as I am, most accustomed to reading about Japanese-style body decoration, Dale Durfee's &quot;Tattoo&quot; will come as a most welcome surprise.  Here the tattoos represent the work of numerous artists--located primarily in the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Netherlands--and the bodies decorated are those of both men and women whose ages range from 20 years all the way up to 70.  The design styles, meanwhile, embrace everything from traditional Japanese to Polynesian to a charming spread of Winnie-the-Pooh style fantasy.<BR> <BR>Still, the most compelling aspect of Durfee's beautiful photographs is the sense of life that radiates from her models.  Too often tattoo models are stiffly posed with expressionless faces.  Here you can enjoy the beautiful range of artwork represented and celebrate as well the pleasure that beautiful tattoo work (and other body decoration such as piercing) has brought to those who bear it, including two well-matched middle-aged couples.  How very refreshing and inspiring!	2004-05-22
US	50977525	R2GXLQHHH34SAS	9812180303	515920982	Myths & Legends of Japan	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Japanese folktales: a treasure from the past	F. Hadland Davis's &quot;Myths of Legends of Japan&quot; was first published in 1913, and therein lies a tale.  Its written style and the breadth of territory that it covers are all typical of the turn-of-the-century studies produced by Westerners newly fascinated by Japan. So too are the lack of an intellectual framework for putting the contents into context and a manner of romanizing Japanese that has long been left behind.  These shortcomings notwithstanding, Davis's work is a most readable compendium  that contains the texts of many traditional Japanese folktales, some but a paragraph long and others that run to a few pages. If your interest in Japanese folktales is to read to children, seek out other books specifically designed and illustrated for that purpose.  On the other hand, if your interest relates to a study of Japanese art, religion, folk customs, literature, anthropology, or early history, do acquire this book but pair it with the more rigorously structured &quot;Japanese Tales&quot; from Royall Tyler.	2004-02-04
US	50977525	RAOEQH8Q5DDTV	0375714510	886911035	Japanese Tales (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	80	85	N	Y	a treasure bag of wonderful japanese tales	For my money, everything that Royall Tyler touches turns to gold, and that is as true of &quot;Japanese Tales&quot; as it is of his more recent translation of &quot;The Tale of Genji.&quot;  In &quot;Japanese Tales,&quot;  he has assembled and artfully translated 220 stories published between the ninth and fourteenth centuries in Japan, stories that are often difficult if not impossible to find elsewhere in English.  For the most part, these are not the extended stories that we tend to call fairy tales in the West, and the book is not designed to provide reading material for children.  What it does provide is a very solid sampling of the types of tales the early Japanese used to provide moral guidance, explain how things came to be, and record historical moments. And if that were not enough, Tyler's outstanding introduction, 35 pages in length, provides a lucid understanding of life in Heian-period Japan and beliefs about everything from serpents and mountains to deities and demons.  This is simply a book you cannot afford to miss if your interests in Japan are those of either an enthusiastic amateur or a focused scholar.	2004-02-04
US	50977525	R24O3D6X5HLTY4	039305814X	684389484	The Snow Fox: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	surpassing beauty from one of america's premier novelists	In the one short week since \\"The Snow Fox\\" debuted, I have read this novel twice.  Why?  Because the book is so compelling in its plot, character development, and beauty of language that I needed to savor it more than once.  However, this was not without costs: the closing chapters brought tears to my eyes and heart and the writing, from first page to last, transported me to a time and place from which it was difficult to return.  <br />All of my reactions reflect the particular genius for which the author Susan Fromberg Schaeffer is best known.  In \\"Anya\\" and \\"Madness of a Seduced Woman,\\" Schaeffer proved herself a master with few peers in evoking other times and places.   Now she has taken on an even more difficult setting, that of medieval Japan.  Schaeffer obviously devoted years to studying Japanese history and culture, but her talents as a novelist and poet are never overwhelmed by period details or the Zen-like sensibility that informs the latter part of the book, and her exceptional command of rhythm and image are used to dazzling effect. Wrap yourself in the beautiful fabric that Schaeffer has created in \\"The Snow Fox\\" and enjoy what is both a love story of remarkable complexity and a meditation on the meaning of life.	2004-01-29
US	50977525	RKYR2VSUOKF9Q	0312239742	895537008	The North Korean System in the Post-Cold War Era	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	one of the finest studies of north korea	North Korea, it has been said, is an enigma wrapped in a secret, and even with larger numbers of officials and ordinary citizens defecting, it is still exceptionally difficult to obtain reliable information on this dangerous country and to assess the viability of Kim Chong-il's regime.  One method for overcoming such challenges and for leveraging what information is available lies with applying to North Korea conceptual models developed from studies of better-understood societies.  And that is exactly what Samuel S. Kim and a team of American and South Korean scholars have done with great success in &quot;The North Korean System in the Post-Cold War Era.&quot; <br />The approach taken in this book is that of systems theory.  This both illuminates the interrelated dynamics of various political processes and recognizes that North Korea must be understood in a context broader than just its top leader and his personal eccentricities.  The writing in this book is clear, theory never gets in the way of understanding, and an astonishing number of insights are economically presented in concentrated form.  In sum, this book is a tour de force that deserves a wide audience and careful consideration by those officials who drive U.S. Government policy toward P'yongyang.	2004-01-13
US	50977525	RXDY857P3JSF5	0786416912	735352911	In North Korea: An American Travels Through an Imprisoned Nation	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	some important observations by a visitor to north korea	To rework a familiar phrase, it might be said that it takes a library of books to know North Korea.  And one of those books is surely \\"In North Korea: An American Travels through an Imprisioned Nation.\\" The primary author of this book is Nanchu, a Chinese emigre now living in the United States, who travelled with a group of Chinese tourists to North Korea.  <br />The good news regarding this book is the ground truth provided by Nanchu's detailed observations and the perspective she brings to her task by having experienced Communist rule in another country. Even though her group was confined to sanitized, prestige sites deemed appropriate for tourists, she still observed the ravages of food shortages, even in the case of privileged soldiers, the grim state of city infrastructures, and the Orwellian controls imposed by the state's security apparatus. In addition, if you follow North Korea's radio broadcasts regarding the activities of Kim Chong-il, you will find in the book information that brings to life his penchant for micromanagement and illustrates some of his preoccupations, such as introducing catfish breeding and erecting buildings with extraordinary shapes. \\"In North Korea\\" is less successful when it presents--often without critical assessment and sometimes with badly mangled details--information culled from the internet and other books.	2003-12-30
US	50977525	R1OFMTD5BQC1AY	0786415894	530663192	Kim Il Sung and Korea's Struggle: An Unconventional Firsthand History	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	an important piece of the puzzle that is north korea	Do not read Dr. Won Tai Sohn's \\"Kim Il Sung and Korea's Struggle\\" if you are seeking a sophisticated political analysis of how Kim Il-song and Kim Chong-il have built and run the North Korean state.  But do invest in this book if you seek to know the pain and nationalistic hopes characteristic of the Korean people as they struggled under the yoke of Japanese occcupation from 1910 to 1945. And, above all, do pay close attention to Dr. Sohn's description of his childhood exile in Manchuria, for his family sheltered and worked with the young Kim Il-song in organizing the Korean youths in China to keep alive their love of the motherland.<br />If your primary interest regarding this book is how the Koreans dealt with the Japanese occupation, then \\"Kim Il Sung and Korea's Struggle\\" is well-teamed with Richard Kim's \\"Lost Names: Scenes from a Korean Boyhood.\\"  On the other hand, if your interest lies primarily in Dr. Sohn's first-hand knowledge of Kim Il-song as a youth, then the book is best teamed with Professor Dae Sook Suh's definitive biography of Kim Il-song.	2003-12-28
US	50977525	R3O7VB5QXHKD9L	0691014892	548383718	Norito	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	a wonderful journey to another time and place	Few books can match Donald Philippi's \\"Norito\\" in its ability to transport us back to the very earliest days of Japanese history and thinking.  This slender volume provides as fine an understanding as it is possible to obtain of Japan's original conceptions of religion.  In the centuries that would follow the era that these \\"songs\\" represent, Japan would be transformed by the Buddhism introduced from China.  By this process of cultural sharing, a native religion (Shinto) that had existed without written texts or formal doctrine, without much real estate or a church hierarchy, would be changed forever, losing its essential innocence and intimate relationship to nature.<br />Philippi's \\"Norito\\" would be especially well teamed with a reading of Michiko Aoki's translation of the \\"Fudoki\\" (\\"Records of Wind and Earth\\").  This eighth-century gazeteer of regional information provides, far more than the contemporaneous and now better known \\"Kojiki\\" and \\"Nihongi\\" histories, a view of early Japanese life still relatively untouched by outside influences.	2003-10-05
US	50977525	R264SIC9OOFNEE	907482255X	181429457	Of Brigands and Bravery: Kuniyoshi’s Heroes of the Suikoden	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	the reissue of this oustanding book is cause for celebration	Of all the superb books published by Hotei on the subject of Japanese woodblock prints, Inge Klompmakers' &quot;Of Brigands and Bravery: Kuniyoshi's Heroes of the Suikoden&quot; is far and away my favorite.  This reflects not only my enthusiasm for the 19th-century artist Kuniyoshi but also an appreciation of the rich symbolism embedded in his treatment of the &quot;Suikoden&quot; heroes.<br />The &quot;Suikoden&quot; (the term is the Japanese rendition of the original Chinese title of &quot;Shuihu zhuan&quot;) is a epic Chinese novel that is known in English as both &quot;The Water Margin&quot; and &quot;All Men are Brothers.&quot;  The novel, which lionizes an outlaw band of 108 men who commit crimes on behalf of the common people, was first translated into Japanese in the late 18th century.  In the 19th century, a reworking of the novel brought it to an even  wider Japanese audience, and at this juncture a number of leading print artists--including Hokusai and Yoshitoshi--illustrated it. However, it is the treatment of the bandits by Kuniyoshi--who depicted 75 of the 108 heroes--which has enjoyed the most enduring popularity and influence.<br />In the original Chinese novel, six of the 108 bandits are described as tattooed.  In Kuniyoshi's series, covering just 75 of the bandits, that number was expanded to 15, and Kuniyoshi's &quot;Suikoden&quot; series became the leading evolutionary influence on Japan's complex style of tattooing.<br />Recently the &quot;Suikoden&quot; has enjoyed a major renaissance of popularity.  Kuniyoshi's prints are revered by the international tattooing community, and the novel itself has inspired a series of fantasy games.  Beyond these considerations, it is worth examining Kuniyoshi's accomplishment within its historical context.  In the late 19th century, the Japanese enjoyed increased access to literature from abroad, had an urbanized population that supported a vigorous publishing industry, and perfected the technology of woodblockprinting.  These three developments jointly produced an extraordinary marriage of text and art, a marriage that enriches us all today.	2003-09-14
US	50977525	R2HVZQGTKK1DM	907482210X	941548596	Heroes and Ghosts: Japanese Prints by Kuniyoshi 1797-1861	Books	5	11	11	N	N	exceptional art, outstanding text, superb publishing work	Scholars speak regularly of Utamaro, Hokusai, and Hiroshige as the giants of the 18th and 19th-century woodblock-printing (&#34;ukiyoe&#34;) tradition in Japan.  Even so, for legions of &#34;ukiyoe&#34; fans, especially those in the West, nobody can match Kuniyoshi for the complexity of his drafting, drama of his compositions, and range of subject matter. And no publisher could have outdone Hotei, a Leiden-based company, in so beautifully reproducing Kuniyoshi's work and so meticulously explaining it in both introductory essays and individual plate captions.  Robert Schaap's &#34;Heroes and Ghosts: Japanese Prints by Kuniyoshi&#34; is one of three volumes Hotei has issued on the work of this artist.  Of the three volumes, it is most wide-ranging in scope, and therefore &#34;Heroes and Ghosts&#34; is the logical book with which to begin your acquantaince with Kuniyoshi.  Because the book accompanied a 1998 exhibition organized by subject category, the sequencing of illustrations will not readily provide a sense of how Kuniyoshi's work evolved.  Still, there is much to fascinate here, and this is a book and an artist that have so much to offer that numerous readings will not begin to exhaust the rich possibilities for drawing out new information and gaining new insights.  I am passionately interested in the legends and historical events reflected in Japanese art of the Edo period (1600-1868), and thus my favorite section is that on &#34;heroes;&#34;  Happily this is also the most extensive segment of the book. It is just such heroic compositions for which Kuniyoshi is most famous, and these pieces offer the richest linkages between literature and art and the most action-packed of Kuniyoshi's compositions.  Moreover, this body of work is notable because Kuniyoshi's manner of depicting these heroes set the style that continues to define Japanese tattooing.	2003-07-17
US	50977525	R3LDELF98X02PF	0764312014	440592370	Bushido: Legacies of the Japanese Tattoo	Books	3	18	22	N	Y	fabulous photos, unique access, lost opportunities	It appears to be the sad fate of English-language books on the Japanese tattoo that they so rarely combine all the desired publishing strengths--first-rate photography, unique insights, disciplined writing, and careful documentation--in a single volume.  And this is disappointingly the case with Takahiro Kitamura's &quot;Bushido: Legacies of the Japanese Tattoo.&quot;  The book includes, as previous reviewers have noted, stunningly beautiful photographs, and it benefits mightily from the personal access of Kitamura (who tattoos as the artist Horitaka) to modern practitioners of the Japanese tattoo. However, it is also the case that only a minute percentage of the book's illustrations are captioned and explained, the text keeps shifting perspective and voice, and the glossaries and index are inadequate.<br />As Kitamura has proved in both &quot;Bushido&quot; and his &quot;Tattoos of the Floating World,&quot;  the Japanese tattoo deserves to be regarded as a serious art form.  It also deserves to be presented to the public by mainline art publishers who employ the best designers and the best color separation technology. To achieve this, the time has come for talented and passionate specialists like Kitamura to consider teaming with professional art writers who flourish outside the confines of the tightly-knit tattoo community.	2003-07-13
US	50977525	R178L0C4YQMJFX	1890451061	534307286	The Tattoo History Source Book	Books	5	39	39	N	N	the book to grab if you can have only one on tattooing	Were you a fan of tattoing who had been stranded on that proverbial desert isle and allowed only half dozen favorite musical discs and but one or two books, it's a good bet that you would want Steve Gilbert's &quot;Tattoo History: A Source Book&quot; to keep you company.  <br />A somewhat uneven quality of writing and of academic documentation mark this book.  Even so, &quot;Tattoo History: A Source Book&quot; is an impressive work that reflects serious research, and it is a tour de force in comfortably handling material that ranges widely over time and space.  On a subject that is so often dominated by photographs and essays that emphasize above all Japanese-style tattooing, it is a delight to learn as well of the long tradition of tattooing in the Pacific Isles, of the role tattoos played in the ancient Middle East, and of early 20th-century tattooing in the West.  Gilbert's extensive use of source material--efectively translated from many languages--lends the book its gravitas and contributes significantly to his success in instilling in the reader an increased sense of respect for the tattoo arts.        <br />Finally I should note that even if this book did not open new vistas for the reader, the essays which bookend &quot;Tattoo History&quot; would alone be worth the price of admission.  Gilbert's opener, &quot;Confessions of a Tattoo Addict,&quot; although but two pages in length, is an evocative essay that relates a fascination with tattoos to his coming of age in the 1940s.  Meanwhile, the lengthier closing essay by Don Ed Hardy documents the resurgence of tattooing over the past several decades, the cultural cross-fertilization that has occurred, and the slow but growing acceptance of tattooing as a legitimate art form by the more conventional arts world.	2003-07-13
US	50977525	R13UXACG5TJ8ZO	9074822452	231044857	Tattoos of the Floating World: Ukiyo-e Motifs in the Japanese Tattoo	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	tops on the cultural context of the japanese tattoo	Takahiro Kitamura's \\"Tattoos of the Floating World\\" is far from a be-all and end-all guide to Japanese tattoos. However, it is for the moment without peer in providing a cultural context, and it thus adds depth to a reading of many other favorites, including Fellman's \\"The Japanese Tattoo,\\" Addiss' \\"Japanese Ghosts and Demons,\\" and Klompmakers' \\"Of Brigands and Bravery: Kuniyoshi's Heroes of the Suikoden.\\" <br />In this slender volume, Kitamura's primary focus is the linkage of the woodblock printing tradition of the Edo period (1615-1868) to the development of the tattoo as art. With such a focus, afficionados of the print artists Kuniyoshi, Kunisada, and Kunichika will find many illustrations to delight them, and there are as well photographs of the current artistry being worked by tattoo masters. Adding to the value of the book are a preface written by Donald Richie and an afterword by Don Ed Hardy. The first essay is elegiac and lyrical in tone; the second provides personal insights by a Western connoisseur of the tattoo art form.<br />The shortcomings of \\"Tattoos of the Floating World\\" concern what is not included. The book would have benefitted greatly from having an index as well as a more generously-executed glossary. Moreover, I regret that Kitamura, who as a tattoo artist is uniquely qualified to do so, did not more systematically and fully catalogue and explain the symbolism of Japanese tattoos.	2003-07-09
US	50977525	R3N71LVT0OZQTE	0500510911	295241655	Cabinets of Curiosities	Books	4	53	56	N	Y	a guide to treasures that is a visual treat	Patrick Mauries' \\"Cabinets of Curiosities\\" is a study of rooms of wonder.  Built during the Baroque Age in Europe, these rooms--sometimes large chambers and in other cases simply elaborate cabinets--held the natural and mechanical treasures that wealthy collectors assembled, often in an attempt to structure for themselves an entire universe.  Consistent with the sumptuous nature of these collections and the complex manner in which they were displayed, \\"Cabinets of Curiosities\\" is distinguished above all by its color photography, its complex design scheme, and a use of cropping and perspective that give the reader a sense of personally entering the collection spaces shown.<br />Because of its size, focus on photography, and price, \\"Cabinets of Curiosities\\" could easily be dismissed as a coffee-table book for the few.  However, its appeal should be broader.  The instinct to collect and to categorize-- even if it involves only seashells found on the beach, leaves fallen in a forest, or unusual stones found around the home-- is universal.  Transcending time and space, collecting and categorizing are fundamental in particular to the sense of wonder and process of learning that define childhood.<br />\\"Cabinets of Curiosities\\" can help us to see anew and celebrate anew the complexities and fascination of the animate and inanimate worlds about us.  In these circumstances, it is particularly disappointing that the text is so lightweight in comparison to the photographs and that the confusing movement among typefaces makes it difficult to track the text.  Mauries is to be congratulated for his bold thinking in fashioning this book and making it so beautiful.  If he had devoted an equal amount of effort to researching, explaining, and documenting his subject matter, \\"Cabinets of Curiosities\\" would have risen to the ranks of a publishing classic.	2003-07-08
US	50977525	R17IXUWSQRTR7C	0807611263	502675385	Japanese Ghosts and Demons: Art of the Supernatural	Books	5	20	22	N	N	a rich feast, both visually and intellectually	As the preface to &quot;Japanese Ghosts and Demons&quot; notes, this book is the fruit of interdisciplinary studies undertaken by the Spencer Museum of Art and the University of Kansas at Lawrence.  And it is the results of just such an interdisciplinary approach that have lifted this book out of the realm of an ordinary exhibition catalogue and propelled it into the rarified ranks of an art history classic. <br />In historical terms, the focus of the book is the Edo period.  This long (1615-1868) and peaceful period saw a concatenation of several important trends, including the perfection of the woodblock print, a democratization of art that--for the first time in Japan--served the masses, the rise of the kabuki theater, and a diffusion of popular literature and tales that often focused on the ghostly and the supernatural. The fusion of these trends was most clearly seen in the woodblock prints of Tsukioka Yoshitoshi, Utagawa Kunisada, and Ichiryusai Kuniyoshi, many of which are reproduced here.  These three giants of the late woodblock period not only made a major contribution in documenting  the theatrical and literary trends of the Edo period but also provided many of the visual models still employed in Japanese-style tattooing.<br />Apart from the rich feast of art presented in this book, &quot;Japanese Ghosts and Demons&quot; will nourish the souls of those interested more in the fields of anthropology and comparative religion.  Even today, when Japan has emerged as one of the most technologically advanced nations on earth, fundamental cultural beliefs are still strongly informed by a sense of mutability.  &quot;Japanese Ghosts and Demons&quot; makes an important contribution to explaining this phenomenon, in which the boundaries between the living and the dead, humankind and animals, the animate and the inanimate, and the sacred and profane are far more permeable than is believed to be the case in the modern West.  Several thousand years ago, before the riseof the three great monotheistic religions, most of the world's societies believed in a universe more pregnant with magical possibilities, a type of universe that this book helps us better understand.	2003-06-18
US	50977525	R2O0FI0MS4M56P	0465011020	166171754	Aquariums of Pyongyang: Ten Years in the North Korean Gulag	Books	5	82	88	N	N	a must-read for an understanding of north korea	Other reviewers have already noted the importance of this book in documenting the pervasive pattern and Kafkaesque quality of human rights violations in North Korea, so I shall concentrate instead on what other help this book offers for penetrating the veil of secrecy in which P'yongyang wraps itself.<br />In the past decade or so, there has been an explosion of Western interest in North Korea that has contributed substantially to a better understanding of P'yongyang's policy priorities and problems. Of particular note in this regard are two publications: \\"North Korea: Through the Looking Glass,\\" an elegant and balanced study published by the Brookings Institute, and \\"Kim Il-song's North Korea,\\" which presents the meticulously- detailed research undertaken by Helen Louise Hunter while she was still with the CIA. Both of these publications benefitted  from the exploitation of defector information, but their homogenized findings still lack a sense of ground truth, and it is in this regards that Kang Chol-hwan's account of his life in North Korea is so valuable apart from its obvious importance on the human rights front.<br />\\"Aquariums of Pyongyang\\" provides a considerable body of anecdotal information that documents several trends which, North Korean government pronouncements make clear, are of increasing concern to the central government.  These trends are rising hooliganism, especially on the part of youth gangs; rampant corruption and bribery in nearly all sectors of society; and a surprising underground use of currency (not always North Korean) in an economy that has traditionally been described as non-monetarized. Neither collectively nor individually are these trends underwriting an organized opposition, but they have substantially eroded both government control of the citizenry and public faith in the regime's relevancy and attractiveness.  Also answered by \\"Aquariums of Pyongyang\\" are such questions as what happens to the goods and cash that the Japanese sendto relatives in  North Korea; how North Koreans manage escapes to China; and how the lives of the privileged few differ from those of the multitudes.  \\"Aquariums\\" is especially well-paired with Hunter's book, which defines the vocabulary of everyday life in North Korea.	2003-06-11
US	50977525	RXOQ6VXL1IY4D	0486247910	112275368	Traditional Japanese Stencil Designs	Books	4	39	39	N	N	the very best of Japanese textile graphics	As a previous reviewer has noted, Clarence Hornung's &quot;Traditional Japanese Stencil Designs&quot; is not the book to purchase if you are seeking inspiration for tattoos.  It is, however, of exceptional value if your interests include Japanese aesthetics in general and textile motifs in particular or if you are seeking sophisticated patterns that can be manipulated and reproduced as graphic designs.<br />The stencils included were originally designed for monochromatic printing on cotton textiles but are also typical of the patterns imprinted on deer-skin goods and traditional Japanese wrapping papers.  More than any other volume in Dover's generously-sized library of books on Japanese design, Hornung's testifies to the Japanese genius for manipulating a few design elements into subtle and classically beautiful patterns. Some of the patterns are abstract and without specific meaning, but the overwhelming majority are rich in symbolism.  Hornung's introduction discusses the most important of these symbolic meanings.  However, the usefulness of the introduction is compromised by his failure to number the stencils and then identify for the reader precisely which plates represent each thematic motif.	2003-06-02
US	50977525	R3PVDM8XQB9DZG	0810967480	624527119	Kazari: Decoration and Display in Japan 15th-19th Centuries	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;Kazari&quot; represents a triumph of curating and publishing	For decades the Japan Society has mounted important and often innovative exhibitions of Japanese art at its New York premises and has issued academically-impeccable catalogues to accompany these shows.  More recently, the Society has also established itself as a publisher of books on Japanese art that rank among the most beautiful, well-designed, and accessible to be found anywhere, a trend clearly evident with the issuance of &quot;Kazari: Decoration and Display in Japan, 15th-19th Centuries.&quot;<br />In mounting its &quot;Kazari&quot; exhibition, which is being seen first in New York and then in London, the Society has played to its traditional strengths.  These include a talent for working with other institutions (in this case the British Museum), an ability to borrow objects from a wide range of sources, and access to the best academic experts from the United States, Europe, and Japan. The happy result, as far as the book goes, is a series of illuminating essays that begin the volume followed by outstanding explanatory entries for each object on display.  These entries include aesthetic analyses, interpretation of the symbols found, and comparisons, where applicable, of the art objects to similar ones.  All told, this is a book that delights one's senses and sharpens one's appreciation of Japanese art while also shedding light on the fascinating world that was Edo-period Japan.	2002-11-30
US	50977525	R3OFUPQJ9PJRB0	0670030201	523371993	The Tale of Genji (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	a classic novel graced by an extraordinary translation	In the late 1960s, I had the good fortune to be at the University of Michigan while Edward Seidensticker was both teaching there and working on his translation of the &quot;Tale of Genji.&quot;  Like the other graduate students in Japanese Studies, I spent countless hours listening to Seidentsticker sing the praises of this literary classic and discuss the complexities of trying to translate it.  I came away from that experience with a lifelong interest in Heian-period (794-1185) literature and a conviction that no Westerner would ever be ambitious and talented enough to better Seidensticker's work.  That conviction, however, has now been upset by Royall Tyler, the Australian professor whose own translation debuted last year.  <br />There are many reasons to acquire and read this newest translation of the &quot;Genji,&quot; even if, and possibly particularly if, you already have the Seidensticker version. One is that the classical Japanese language of poetry and prose was so highly allusive.  It had numerous layers of meaning, a phenomenon that has allowed and indeed led translators to render it with different emphases in mood and meaning.  These layered meanings pose a particular challenge for the translator who seeks to find economical ways of rendering the Japanese into English while preserving the spirit of what the Heian-period reader would have taken from the original. This challenge Tyler has dealt with exceptional success.<br />Another significant reason for acquiring and carefully poring over Tyler's new rendering of &quot;The Genji&quot; is the array of aids that he provides for reading a novel of such length and complexity.  Each chapter opens with a brief description of how it relates to earlier portions of the text as well as a list of the characters involved.  The text is enhanced but not overburdened by footnotes which provide information on additional layers of meaning in certain phrases, references to earlier Japanese and Chinese literary works, andclarifications regarding the plot.  The appendices also merit special praise: they provide a chronology for the events described, a glossary of general terms, schematic drawings of Heian-period buildings, a glossary of terms related to fabric colors and clothing styles, and definitions of court offices and titles.  Finally, numerous black-and-white line drawings--in many cases not accessible elsewhere in English-language sources--are placed within the text, helping to explain the material culture of Heian court society.  All told, Tyler's newest adventure in translating is a tour de force.  It is a joy to read and is a resource that will enrich the studies of those thousands upon thousands of Westerners eager to learn about classical Japanese culture.	2002-07-27
US	50977525	R11PKPCE2F12N1	0810966441	702051025	The Dawn of the Floating World 1650-1765: Early Ukiyo-E Treasures from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Only superlatives can do justice to this book.	Everything about &quot;Dawn of the Floating World: Early Ukiyoe Treasures from the Museum of Fine Arts&quot; is superb:  the quality of the unglazed paper, the beautiful design and color reproductions, and the solid scholarship that accompanies the presentation of rare Japanese prints from the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.<br />If you are a collector or student of Edo-period Japanese prints, you undoubtedly have dozens if not hundreds of books in your art library, but few will match the quality of this volume or give you access to such a rich lode of information on the earliest of the Japanese printmakers (1650-1765). Nor will many other books stand up to the quality of the text provided by an all-star team drawn from the British Museum, Museum of Fine Arts/Boston, and Dartmouth College. The text entries present: poems in romanized Japanese as well as English translation, aesthetic assessments of the prints, biographical information on artists, interpretations of symbolic devices, and details--where relevant--of the kabuki plays, actors, locations, and activities depicted. Even the footnotes, printed at the inner margins of the pages devoted to text, are fascinating and will help intellectually curious readers to readily locate the best of source material.	2002-04-18
US	50977525	RDND89SJ4XJW3	1585742821	708090815	Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	solid background material with wide appeal	On a first encounter with &quot;Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior,&quot; I was so distracted by the vast number of mispelled Japanese names that I made it no further than the fifth page and quickly consigned the book to a remote shelf.  For a second encounter, I approached Clive Sinclaire's book determined to overlook both the spelling issues and the relatively weak and inappropriately sentimental first chapter that outlines a history of the Japanese warrior.  This time, I jumped straight to chapter two and concentrated instead on the book's strengths.<br />And these strengths are notable.  As most customer reviewers have here noted, the book provides outstanding introductory material on various classes of Japanese weapons as well as traditional armor. A combination of photographed artifacts,  annotated line drawings, and excellent captions make learning from this book particularly easy.  Edo-period woodblock prints, moreover, are used to good effect in showing the weapons as they were used in premodern times. Needless to say, the primary appeal of Sinclaire's book will be to that large body of people who enthusiastically study Japanese martial arts and military history.  However, &quot;Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior&quot; also merits a place on the bookshelf of anyone generally interested in Japanese culture or more specifically tasked, for example, with decoding the military activities depicted in Japanese art.	2002-02-01
US	50977525	R3GCMN3QZVMAPZ	0810965763	56229529	Hiroshige Fan Prints (Far Eastern Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a small gem with great depth and beauty	Modestly sized in comparison to most books on Japanese woodblock prints and relatively modest in its scope, &quot;Hiroshige's Fan Prints&quot; could easily be overlooked.  But this book--another gem in the Victoria &amp; Albert's series on its Japanese art collection--is worth both a second look and a prized place in  your library.  The book has beautiful reproductions of more than 125 color prints that the artist Hiroshige created in the nineteenth-century for mounting on the stiff &quot;uchiwa&quot; fans used in the summer months.  The text reflects the careful research and clear writing of Rupert Faulkner, the assistant curator of the V&amp;A's Japanese collection.  Each text entry  provides a richly detailed-mix of information about the  artistic quality, substantive symbolism, and literary allusions (where applicable) of each print reproduced.  The identification of censor, dating, and publishing seals and a frank assessment of which pieces are likely restrikes provide an added bonus: guideposts for any collector of &quot;ukiyoe&quot; prints who seeks to develop an educated eye for quality and authenticity.	2002-01-08
US	50977525	R1DONB8DGL2RIY	477002536X	951287590	The Colors of Japan: Background, Characteristics and Creation	Books	5	31	31	N	N	stunning photographs joined by valuable text	Both at home and abroad, Sadao Hibi is known as one of Japan's foremost photographers, and his color studies of the details of Japanese artifacts, architecture, and gardens have appeared in numerous books.  These books are invariably stunning and are usually bought solely for the strength of their visual appeal alone.<br />Now comes &quot;The Colors of Japan,&quot; which not only meets the photographic and design standards of Hibi's previous books but also includes text provided by a distinguished Japanese scholar.  That scholar is Kunio Fukuda, a professor of color theory at a Japanese college of art and design, and it is his writing--not previously accessible in English--that makes this book especially valuable. For readers familiar with Japan and its culture, Fukuda's text brings into focus what they have already observed about the Japanese use of color.  Even more important, it provides technical information about the dyes and pigments available to the Japanese over the centuries, material not easily found in general-audience art books.	2001-12-17
US	50977525	R3PP9RYUPKQVXK	0810941694	349663536	Floating World of Ukiyo-E: Shadows, Dreams and Substance	Books	5	28	29	N	N	a first-rate addition to any Japanese art library	Writing on Edo-period Japanese prints tends to be dominated by studies of single artists, print series by single artists, and chronological histories.  Against this background, &quot;The Floating World of Ukiyoe: Shadows, Dreams, and Substance,&quot; produced in conjunction with an exhibition, is a most welcome contribution.  Here the emphasis is on showcasing a diverse and rarely seen collection--the woodblock prints and woodblock-printed books of the Library of Congress-- and on presenting expert essays that put the genre of &quot;ukiyoe&quot; in a broad aesthetic and social context. Added bonuses include such features as the &quot;raking light&quot; photograph on page 118, which illustrates the effects created by print embossing. &quot;The Floating World&quot; has been superbly designed by Abrams and well edited.  It is worth noting too that the index has been prepared with exceptional care.  Meanwhile, the bibliography--which covers 309 items and runs more than 20 pages--is a wonderful guide to woodblock-printed books in the Library of Congress:  for scholars of Japanese art, culture, and publishing, this alone will justify acquisition of this book.	2001-11-26
US	50977525	R2QB682ER2SANV	0295977663	824819913	Hokusai and Hiroshige: Great Japanese Prints from the James A. Michener Collection, Honolulu Academy of Arts	Books	4	48	48	N	N	a beautifully designed and well-written book	In the second half of the nineteenth century, Europeans and Americans discovered the world of Japanese woodblock prints and thus began an enduring love affair.  One result has been the publication over the last century of literally hundreds of books and thousands of articles about the prints known as &quot;ukiyoe,&quot;  with a particular emphasis on such giants of the genre as Hokusai and Hiroshige.  How then, in this crowded field, does one manage to create a must-have publication for readers who may already have well-stocked libraries on Japanese art?<br />One answer is to be found in &quot;Hokusai and Hiroshige: Great Japanese Prints from the James A. Michener Collection, Honolulu Academy of Arts.&quot;  Issued by the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco in conjunction with an exhibition, &quot;Hokusai and Hiroshige&quot; is typical of a new wave of &quot;ukiyoe&quot; books that combine excellent design (of layout and typography) with clear and interesting text.  Every page displaying a print has a near equal amount of space devoted to text, and the book benefits as well from introductory essays by three established experts.  The text in particular appeals to me, providing not only insights about the compositional nature of each print but also detail on the locales depicted by these two great landscape artists and appropriate historical information.  There is room for improvement in &quot;Hokusai and Hiroshige&quot;--I would have preferred more standard romanizations for some Japanese words and the inclusion of an index covering well more than just print titles--but overall this is an excellent and valuable volume.	2001-08-05
US	50977525	R1SUR84EKKBB6D	0824822048	47882935	Sex and the Floating World: Erotic Images in Japan, 1700-1820	Books	5	35	35	N	N	a provocative book from a creative scholar...	Vast numbers of people are already familiar with &quot;shunga,&quot; the Edo-period erotic art that is the subject of Timon Screech's &quot;Sex and the Floating World.&quot;  Few readers, however, will have focused on learning about the context in which this erotic art was produced.  Moreover, some of Screech's findings will undoubtedly come as a surprise.  Chief among the book's arguments is that the culture of urban Edo which produced the &quot;shunga&quot; was not one of &quot;laxity and freedom, sexual or other.&quot; Rather, Screech says, the art served the needs of &quot;auto-eroticism&quot; for a city (Edo, now Tokyo) that, because of political requirements, was overwhelmingly populated by males who had been separated from their families and denied access to females. <br />Screech's book stands in stark contrast to the many previous volumes on &quot;shunga&quot; that have concentrated on reproducing the erotic prints, and the total space devoted to visual images is rather limited. Still many readers will find this book rewarding, and however iconoclastic some of the findings may be no serious student of Japanese art or early modern history will want to be without it.	2001-06-04
US	50977525	R2WDBVKF0VHIJA	0834802295	801201430	Elements Of Japanese Design: Handbook Of Family Crests, Heraldry & Symbolism (Handbook of Family Crests, Heraldry and Symbolism)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Dower's book a classic	John Dower's study of Japanese crests and heraldry benefits from the same lucid writing and impeccable research that this MIT historian has brought to all of his work, including his recent National Book Award study of postwar Japan.  The illustrations are excellent and the introduction, in particular, should be required reading for all those interested in Japanese history, heraldry, and samurai practices.  It is just as valuable for those with a more generic interest in how heraldry has been used over time and across cultures.	2001-05-13
US	50977525	R2391NOI82KW0D	0300086806	555439511	Bridge of Dreams : The Mary Griggs Burke Collection of Japanese Art	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Bridge of Dreams: visually stunning, superbly researched	&quot;Bridge of Dreams&quot; combines two formidable strengths, the visual appeal of the stunning Mary Griggs Burke Collection of Japanese art and the meticulous, distinguished scholarship of Miyeko Murase, who edited this catalogue for a Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibition.  With objects drawn from the prehistoric period to the nineteenth century and representing every major art medium, the book serves as an excellent survey of Japanese art through the ages.  The catalogue describes in satisfying detail  each of the 168 objects pictured and provides as well short background essays on different genres of Japanese art.  The prose is always accessible and precise, meeting the needs of both beginning art history students and the most demanding of specialists.  The book concludes with an excellent glossary, list of suggested readings on Japanese art, and carefully prepared index.	2001-05-13
US	50977525	R2KTBVBV4AP5YV	0486228746	53532877	Japanese Design Motifs: 4,260 Illustrations of Japanese Crests	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Matsuya Crest Catalogue Outstanding Resource	The Matsuya catalogue of crests is a resource of remarkable depth and breadth for serious students of Japanese design history.  Although it lacks the interpretive text of John Dower's classic study on Japanese crests, the unusually large number and relatively complete range of crests pictured allow readers to draw solid conclusions about the relative popularity of certain motifs, like plum blossoms or oak leaves, in Japanese history and to examine how different motifs--such as the Big Dipper and crescent moon or rabbit and high waves--were combined. If one is able to read Japanese, the names of the specific crest designs convey additional valuable information.  One of the many copyright-free books published by Dover, the Matsuya catalogue also provides a treasure trove of reproduction-quality design material.	2001-04-05
