US	50971011	R1HJCWCICXZ2WQ	0893148121	668366820	Right Thinking: The Royal Road to Health	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Right Thinking Creates Right Action	In this short book by Manly Hall, originally published in 1931, discusses, initially, the problems of disease and how our thinking manifests problems in our lives. What may start out as a small problem many times never gets resolved. By holding it within, it infects our thinking and festers over a long period of time and eventually becomes a disease. The cure, then, accordinly, is not through medication, pills and avoidance, but rather a dissolution of those old issues by bringing them to light (consciousness) and resolving it. As he writes, &quot;If you think this fits you it probably does not; if you are sure it does not, it probably does.&quot; This is a general safe way of thinking to prevent avoidance of facing yourself and your problems. The book is designed to challenge your ego and to start correcting irrational behaviors and repetitive structures that we have developed over the years. It is an excellent book and very thought provoking, if not, action inducing.	2004-07-08
US	50971011	R29K2SMW3PZ8MW	0893148407	132063775	Riddle of the Rosicrucians	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An Excellent Overview of the History	Manly Hall's short book on the history on the authenticity of the Rosicrucians is a well documented and researched book. Originally published in 1949, Hall examines the original texts of the Rosicrucians, such as the The Fame and Confessions of the Fraternity of the R. C. Hall questions the author, the reality of Rosicrucian Order and what the intentions behind it was. Like many, by now, have understood that it is very probable that a Rosicrucian order did not exist in the 1600's at the time of the publication. But because of the mystery that surrounded it, along with its popularity of the time, many people claimed to have belonged to such an order. Yet, no real author was stepping out to claim authenticity or validity of the Rosicrucians, so, many charlatans would step out of the woodworks and claim they belonged to the order in to gain notice or money. Yet, this stil does not dispell the problem created by the original Fame and Confessions. Further problems arose when the Chemical Marriage of Father Christian Rosencreutz. Hall is not altogether convinced that these two books are related, nor that R. C. refers to Chritian Rosencreutz (or that he was a real person). What Hall does deduce through all of these problems is that it may be very likely that Johann Valentin Andreae is the most likely author of the original Fame. Furthermore, that Rosicrucianism is not a real order to be initiated into, but rather a state of being or mind that one attains. One book that Hall highly reccomends in conjunction with reading the Fame and Confessions is Lord Bacon's Novum Organum as he believes he points out the author of this mysterious book.	2004-07-08
US	50971011	R3FQUVEF614LDM	0893143855	326727997	Unseen Forces	Books	5	36	36	N	N	The Elements and Their Properties	Manly P. Hall, whose influence seems to have grown substantially since his death, wrote this little book in 1929 concerning the elementals. He begins with the four types of the Gnomes, Undines, Salamanders, and the Sylphs. Each pertaining to an element that it controls or dominates. Manly Hall goes on in disucssion about thought forms and emotions explaining, it is not important whether these are real entities in physical reality. In fact, it is better not to believe that. One reason, as explained, is that they are means of expressing a type of psychology of an age. &quot;Unseen Forces&quot; regards ghosts and spectres as a form of thought because there is no innate autonomy within the ghost, but rather move through &quot;wind&quot; of such forces. Hall concludes this book with a talk on the Guardians of the Threshold, being, the ego guarding the unconscious and gives an account of three steps towards wisdom. Much of what holds us back from attaining any type of wisdom is by holding onto the body, i.e. sins of the flesh. He states, &quot;Let us ask nothing of God until we have done our part.&quot;	2004-07-08
US	50971011	R10942MMPWQNM2	089314813X	353094973	Psychoanalyzing the Twelve Zodiacal Types	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	A small compendium of the Zodiac and their Attributes	Originally published in 1929, Hall's Psychoanalyzing the Twelve Zodiacal Types is a somewhat misleading title. By reading Halls other works, one will gather he has a solid understanding of human psychology. But this book does not venture too far into the psychological world, and for the most part remains an astrology book more than a psychology book. The book is laid out typically, with each sign getting its own chapter, and in groups according to their class (i.e. cardinal, fixed, common). I feel that the descriptions for each zodiac is not too far from what you would find in other well written (and understood) astrology books. This book is concise and to the point and makes no claims of right/wrong, better/worse. The use of this book is more for those who are practicing nativities and the like and who are, perhaps, looking for an alternate means of assimilating information. The zodiacal descriptions are all based on the Sun sign which must be considered when making an accurate reading of a horoscope. While the information in the book is probably just as accurate as most other authorities, I would not say this book is a neccessity.	2004-07-08
US	50971011	R21QM2UO2ECNNQ	0451205367	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Start to Fatten thy Purse	I was introduced to this book by a friend, bought a copy and put it down for a year. It sounded strange that a book about ancient culture of Babylon has something to say about making money. Furthermore, the back of the book purports that it is written in easy to read Biblical style language. I never found the Bible to be exactly an easy read.<br />Nonetheless, one day I decided to read it. I was really impressed to the point of inspired! Such logical and practical sense in how to make money without first losing your shirt. In fact, you not only get to keep your shirt, but also provide shelter, clothing and food for your family on top of it! It is not worth writing the formulas or ideas in this review because it would only lose the impact. Read it so the wisdom is in it's proper context.<br />A great book, &quot;The Richest Man in Babylon&quot;, written sometime in the early 40's, I think, continues to be an excellent resource in making money. I highly reccomend this book to anyone who is having trouble saving extra for the future.	2003-10-15
US	50971011	RL0MCEEHF61LM	1558181199	19926598	The Kabbalistic Prayer: Together with Occult and Religious Maxims From a Manuscript of Levi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Prayer as Ritual Magic	Presented from Holmes Publishing is a piece from famed occult priest Eliphas Levi. This small work is taken from his manuscript. No translator is indicated nor any other information about this work in general. The title reads, \\"The Kabbalistic Prayer Together With Occult and Religious Maxims from a Manuscript of Levi\\". The first part gives the prayer itself and then Levi goes on to explain the \\"hows\\" and \\"whats\\" of the ritual in his own mysterious, yet somehow, understandable language. From this are seeming random quotes or extracts from his writings that have some pertinence to the Work at hand. It ends with a page and half of his \\"Occult and Relgious Maxims\\", which are sort of one-liners for one to follow or adhere to while doing their work. At 20 pages one might find this book managable, however, that is only for those that have read Levi before or studies Kabbalah. The translation (assuming this was translated from the French) appears good and all words are spelled correctly. Levi's theories has been disputed before by his appraisers and followers, but one cannot dispute the importance of his writings.	2003-06-05
US	50971011	R3RC66MPWL0859	1558181199	19926598	The Kabbalistic Prayer: Together with Occult and Religious Maxims From a Manuscript of Levi	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Prayer as Ritual Magic	Presented from Holmes Publishing is a piece from famed occult priesr Eliphas Levi. This small work is taken from his manuscript. No translator is indicated nor any other information about this work in general. The title reads, &quot;The Kabbalistic Prayer Together With Occult and Religious Maxims from a Manuscript of Levi&quot;. The first part gives the prayer itself and then Levi goes on to explain the hows and whats of the ritual in his own mysterious, yet somehow, understandable language. From this are seeming random quotes or extracts from his writings that have some pertinence to the Work at hand. It ends with a page and half of his &quot;Occult and Relgious Maxims&quot;, which are sort of one-liners for one to follow or adhere to while doing their work. At 20 pages one might find this book managable, however, that is only for those that have read Levi before or studies Kabbalah. The translation (assuming this was translated from the French) appears good and all words are spelled correctly. Levi's theories has been disputed before by his appraisers and followers, but one cannot dispute the importance of his writings.	2003-06-05
US	50971011	R3MHGYD70R8EZN	0691018766	918749276	Paracelsus: Selected Writings	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	The Little Universe	The main thread of Paracelsus' theology is that man is the &quot;Little Universe&quot; while the Universe is the &quot;Great Being.&quot; To Paracelsus, however, this is not just a passing thought or a nice philosophy, but one to be explored, understood, and lived every day. <br />This selction of works gives a basic overview of Paracelsus' writing and thought in a comprehensive, yet, fairly easy to digest compendium. Edited by Jolande Jocobi for the Princeton &quot;Mythos Series&quot; does a wonderful job splicing together many of Paracelsus' works together in a rather cohesive and streamlined format. The subjects range from the creation of the universe to the practice of the physician to alchemy and art in general. If one is looking for a specific aspect of Paracelsus, this may not be the book to get, however, if one just wants to read or get a trace of his writings, then there is no better book to buy. <br />The writing is somewhat archaic, however, if one takes the time to understand what is written in the first couple of pages, then one can appreciate the point of view Paracelsus is coming from. In another way of saying this, according to Paracelsus, God and Man are intricately united and there is nothing on this Earth or the Universe that can separate the two. From this understanding Paracelsus stems all his other experiences and revelations.<br />The introduction by Jacobi is a fairly extensive biography of Phillipus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hoenheim called Paracelsus (which means &quot;beyond celsus&quot;). Throughout the book are many engravings from various artists from his books or other various books that pertain to the topic at hand. As stated, the book offers a wide variety of subjects for the reader to chew from which may make this book limited in range as it is a book of &quot;Selected Writings&quot;, however, I believe if one is beginning to look into the works of Paracelsus, this might be the best place to start.	2003-05-06
US	50971011	R1HH2FPYQOAZBQ	1561840904	48659909	The Law Is for All: The Authorized Popular Commentary of Liber Al Vel Legis Sub Figura CCXX, The Book of the Law	Books	4	13	25	N	N	The Law is for Sum, not All	Crowley is perhaps giving an aphoristic title to his work in a similar manner as McLuhan and Leary has done in more recent times. An evocative slogan that can spin many ideas and interpretations. The question then being, &quot;Who is All?&quot; Also, &quot;What is the Law?&quot; And if you get that far, then you might ask, &quot;Who's Law?&quot; One might answer very literally and find that not All people agree with Crowley's thinking. Also, if this is Crowley's own Laws, then they are for him and not me. Another might answer in an equally esoteric manner and say &quot;You&quot; to all questions.<br />This book is a commentary by Crowley himself on his own worshipped book &quot;Liber Legis&quot;, better known as &quot;The Book of the Law.&quot; For those that study Crowley with seriousness, intensity and repetitiously will find &quot;The Book of the Law&quot; in almost every text bearing Crowley's name to the point of exhaustion. While &quot;The Book of the Law&quot; is an important book in uncovering many of Crowley's meanings and points of view, it would appear he was creating a fellowship around something that should have been more personal.<br />&quot;The Law is For All&quot;, however, offers select insight into &quot;The Book of the Law.&quot; The rest of it is work for the reader. It is not something in plain English for one to say &quot;ohhhh!&quot; after they are done reading it. It is still kept in the traditional kabbalistic coded framework for those that have already done their homework or is willing to put forth the work.<br />&quot;The Law is For All&quot; is not an esssential guide to understanding &quot;The Book of the Law&quot;, yet, can aid towards understanding Crowley's take on his experience, but I would believe that interpretation does not stop at Crowley's word. For me performing the rituals offered in other books has given me the greatest insight to &quot;The Book of the Law&quot; while &quot;The Law is For All&quot; only gives partial intellectual clues.<br />&quot;The Law is For All&quot; then is really not for &quot;All&quot;, at least in the literal sense. I believe he was saying &quot;All&quot; meaning everyone should adhere to what was written in &quot;The Book of the Law&quot;, however, I also believe he was referring to the &quot;All&quot; as in the &quot;You&quot; or, rather, &quot;All of You.&quot; The &quot;Law&quot; is what is written on your heart. This book is for those that are interested in Crowley more than in Magick, in my opinion.lectual clues.<br />&quot;The Law is For All&quot; then is really not for &quot;All&quot;, at least in the literal sense. I believe he was saying &quot;All&quot; meaning everyone should adhere to what was written in &quot;The Book of the Law&quot;, however, I also believe he was referring to the &quot;All&quot; as in the &quot;You&quot; or, rather, &quot;All of You.&quot; The &quot;Law&quot; is what is written on your heart. This book is for those that are interested in Crowley more than in Magick, in my opinion.	2003-04-25
US	50971011	R2GFA9BSL6XLFB	0262631598	482207302	Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man	Books	5	64	69	N	Y	Modern Mystic?	Marshall McLuhan is perhaps one of the most influential authors I have read along with Timothy Leary, Alan Watts and Eliphas Levi. What McLuhan does like the authors stated is not explain in descriptive terms the media, but process oriented direction of experience. I will explain that momentarily.<br />This book, &quot;Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man&quot; is by far McLuhan's greatest book. It is set up like any useful text with the first part being the theory, while the second part contains the practice. He explains in the theoretical part that media is the extension of man. That all things created by man have come from man's own experience. This is like a dream, in one sense, where one must determine at some point that they are creators of the dream, and therefore, all content of the dream must apply to the dreamer's existence, and no one elses. Likewise, all inventions and discoveries are aspects of human dimensions that have been created by man, and therefore must come from man's inner experiences. These inventions are ultimately what McLuhan calls extensions, as they extend our human capacity for that movement or experience. The foot can travel so fast, while the tire is the extension of the foot, and therefore can move at a much higher rate of speed than the foot.<br />It seems that the most confusing aspect of McLuhan's theories is the idea of content versus context. The assumption of media study is to psychologize advertisments or the like. This way of approach is far from his point. He says, &quot;My own way of approaching the media is perceptual not conceptual.&quot; What he is saying is that he uses his senses to gain understanding of the media, not theoretical concepts. This is what I mean about process oriented experience, where McLuhan discusses the experience one has by, say watching television, the mode of thought one has, the patterns of thought and behavior created by television.<br />In other words, we become the media that we have been shaped by in our culture and time. The spoken word, the written word and the telegraph, McLuhan noted, has had the largest impact on our society. Not because of their usefulness, or whether they work or not, but because society has patterned themselves after the respective media. Are not we becoming a computerized society? Does this mean we have lots of computers that run things? Or are the people becoming computer like in their behavoir and thinking? The latter expresses more accurately McLuhan's ideas.<br />The second part runs over a select group of specific media and their implications on the human mind. The context in which they were placed in is by far the most important aspect as it predicts when a new media might arise. All media have their logical origins. If one determine the state of the world now, as it is, one can determine the way of the media. McLuhan discusses the written and printed word, automobile, telegraph, aeroplanes, bikes, routes, newspapers, automation, games, weapons, and many others that make for a highly evocative read.<br />Is McLuhan a modern mystic? It might be a heavy title for some. If one reads well enough into his work, they may get the sense he is not talking about media at all.<br />Understanding McLuhan's approach is about upsetting the whole sensory environment. The appeal McLuhan has had on the ages from 1964, when the book was published, is in his aphorism, &quot;Media is the message.&quot; This little phrase scratched many heads. Most of McLuhan's writings are like this. It is not about explaining it, but involving the reader to think for himself. To evoke, as in, evocative. So the conclusions must be the readers choice, either by intuition, study, assumption, or first hand experience. One thing is for certain, if you take the time to read the book twice, it will be different than the first read.<br />I can say, &quot;if you only read one book...&quot; but those that read this book are usually of the literate group. But forme, this book has not been an informative text, but a work book, a guide, an insightful prayer book, a reference, a resource, a magical text. I cannot reccomend this book highly enough.me, this book has not been an informative text, but a work book, a guide, an insightful prayer book, a reference, a resource, a magical text. I cannot reccomend this book highly enough.	2003-04-09
US	50971011	R298GT8B8VB37V	0893143871	669716282	Reincarnation, The Cycle of Necessity	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Comprehensive Approach	There is, perhaps, no authority on the subject of reincarnation with the exception of certain sacred texts, however, Manly Hall comes very close as that scholarly voice. &quot;Reincarnation: The Cycle of Necessity&quot; was written in 1980 and the information is still completely relevant. What Hall continually impresses upon the readers mind is that the belief in reincarnation is the only reasonable solution towards a better life and world.<br />The book goes through most of the major beliefs of reincarnation throughout the worlds religions as well as cultures. Hall does some keen investigation to support that most of the religions do subscribe to reincarnation. In the case of Judaism and Christianity, he does dig a little deeper to give credence that they do support Christianity, however, this is from a theological perspective and not a doctrinal one. Hall does note that, although the general public of the Western mind does not adhere to the belief, there are no laws from the church stating it is a pagan belief either.<br />Once this matter is put aside, Hall ventures into various topics pertaining to reincarnation from suicide, karma, free will, animal, plant and mineral spirits, to the unfolding of the human life in perfection towards the spiritual goal of nirvana. Hall writes with utmost conidence and almost cocksureness of what he says to be actual fact. There are some testimonies in the book to help you conlude that reincarnation exists, a certain amount of restraint may be called upon the reader. Nonetheless, Hall is convincing, especially after he has explained the reasoning behind reincarnation and its purpose and the attitude of the individual.<br />Manly Hall's book on reincarnation is certainly a unique book and valid amongst the pantheon of books out there on the subject. Hall does his best not to have a particular point of view, however, for those that are familiar with him will know he was honored the highest degree in Freemasonry and that his specialty is in occultism.ialty is in occultism.	2003-04-01
US	50971011	RB5KMR301Y9BJ	0911226192	726694644	Frogs into Princes: Neuro Linguistic Programming	Books	5	19	73	N	N	Turn Your Frog into a Prince	Most of us mimick frogs by saying &quot;ribbit&quot; and when we say that we usually mean &quot;frog&quot; in the most general sense. We are pretty sure, however, that frogs really dont say &quot;ribbit.&quot; As humans we hear the sound and desparately try to make meaning out of it in order to understand it. A frog sound is then generalized into &quot;ribbit,&quot; which now stands as the meaning, while the frog itself is the symbol. We have learned this process some time ago as children. All frogs then say the same thing. In our minds we only hear one sound a frog can make. It may even be questionable that when a frog utters a sound, we can wonder if we heard the noise or our own minds uttering the sound &quot;ribbit.&quot; The reverse of this is true, that all objects that utter the sound &quot;ribbit&quot; must be a frog and therefore there is no difference made among any frog. We have been so successful at talking with other humans about the sound &quot;ribbit&quot; that we carry it over into any other animal types that makes strange sounds and generalized them into words. The squawk of a crow, the trumpeting of an elephant, or the laugh of a hyena are other such cases in which sounds have been generalized (and to some degree nominalized) into meaning/symbol relationships.<br />The usefulness of this pattern of learning is as a stepping stone to create meaning/symbol structures in our brains for recognizing various life forms. When it is relied upon as a reality map, it fails completely because there is no differentiation involved in more complex life forms, like humans. In the realm of human interaction, it would be a mistake to speak to all humans using the same meaning/symbol structure. If every human that greets you says &quot;hello&quot; and you take that meaning and apply to the symbol of the human, your responses to the world are going to be very limited.<br />Your ears, eyes and tactile sensations must be senstitive to varying patterns of human life when observing. I know from experience every human does not sound out &quot;hello&quot; to me upon a greeting. I also know that every time the sound &quot;hello&quot; is spoken, it is not directed towards me to respond to. I have to pay attention to where the sound is coming from as well as the particular human that expresses themselves in this form.<br />The English language may be a more complex form of &quot;ribbeting&quot; which makes it easier for us humans to distinguish one sound pattern from another. With our vocal cords we can create a far greater range of sounds than a frog can. Because of the varied sounds, we can equally match the number of responses to that sound. Furthermore, we can respond in number of sounds to any one particular sound. A &quot;hello&quot; does not need to be responded to with another &quot;hello.&quot; Parrots have a limited vocal and neurological response repertoire, which is why they mimick the sounds they do. Humans on the other hand are able to respond fully to the situation utilizing a much larger range of responses that can alter, vary or change the behavior of the human they interact with.<br />The one variable that allows humans to make that change is through choice, which is essentially a metaprogram of two or more consciously availalbe programs to run within the system. It is decision making at its most elite because within the program is a place that allows learning to occur from the reaction to the response. By having acute sensitivity to your senses, you can learn about reactions to your responses from varying humans, and, furthermore, you also learn about your own behaviors.<br />The frog does not say &quot;ribbit.&quot; Does it say anything that has content value? Probably not. The frog does not impart intellectual information. For it, it is totally useless to the frog. No, the frog sends a message, both to itself and to fellow frogs. The message is not transcribable, but rather process oriented, to order, direct and illuminate to the other frogs of its secrets that it has discovered. The frog does this to interact and become intimate with its environment and become more and more involved in its own life as well as the life of others. When a frog has illuminated other frogs of its discoveries, the other frogs chant along the same song of the mysteries. Yet, the frog that made the discovery does not see itself as a frog, or think of itself in those terms. It has grown up. When the other frogs hop along and gather around to sing along, they surround it in reverence that, this is not a frog anymore, but a prince.illuminate to the other frogs of its secrets that it has discovered. The frog does this to interact and become intimate with its environment and become more and more involved in its own life as well as the life of others. When a frog has illuminated other frogs of its discoveries, the other frogs chant along the same song of the mysteries. Yet, the frog that made the discovery does not see itself as a frog, or think of itself in those terms. It has grown up. When the other frogs hop along and gather around to sing along, they surround it in reverence that, this is not a frog anymore, but a prince.	2003-04-01
US	50971011	R3FVO9J4PEP77F	0893148059	283941175	Astrology & Reincarnation	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Erect a Horoscope of Your Past Life	Manly Hall's short work on reincarnation and astrology is a good read, however, one might not quite grab onto his ideas immediately if one reads this book in isolation to Hall's other works. I think to really benefit from this book, one should read Hall's other books on Reincarnation and Astrology for I think his ideals differ slightly than from what is written elsewhere. This way to get a firm foundation on what the author understands as \\"reincarnation\\" and \\"astrology\\" would make this book clearer. My personal take on Astrology is limiting which made the read for me more of a curious book than anything I can apply to my current studies. Nonetheless, he makes some interesting remarks regarding the two subjects. The basic premise is that the sign in which we are born in is the continuation of karmic cycles from our previous life. Thus, being born in the Ascendant of Gemini, the processes which I am working with most are of Taurean nature. Furthermore, the author suggests that if we take the time of death for a particular person and erect a horoscope at the moment of death, we can determine to some degree the kind of life the spirit will re-embody. If you are into astrology and are curious about reincarnation, this book is a good stepping stone to the subject and how to utilize information in regards to past and future lives.	2003-04-01
US	50971011	RRP7W2PKBVQKP	0893148113	90491529	What the Ancient Wisdom Expects of Its Disciples	Books	5	75	80	N	N	Live the Life as the Ancient Masters	In this short work by Manly Hall, he digresses into the little known subject of how the ancient masters of the mystery schools go about teaching their students. Much has changed in the way of secret societies since the days of Plato and Pythagoras, however, the principles are generally the same. Silence is still of utmost importance. In the times of Pythagoras, silence was not only a virtue, but something your life depended upon. Today, you will not get crucified or burned at the stake for revealing secrets from a society, however, your integrity and Will are disseminated. Silence today stands as a virtue more than anything, but one that most people neglect. This short book also looks into the practices of the Student, Disciple and Initiate, as the basic three grades of the practitioner once they have entered a mystery school. Even today all of these attitudes that Hall speaks about have complete practicality in today's culture. It is less about environment and more about the demeanor of the practitioner. If one does not take in all of the ideas represented in this book, surely one or two of them will cling to the readers mind as not only possible, but inspirational. For those that have been practicing the secret arts for a period of time, this book may serve as a good reminder of why they are doing what they do to begin with.	2003-04-01
US	50971011	R40JCSMDKB825	0786860278	145568963	Walt Disney: An American Original (Disney Editions Deluxe)	Books	4	23	27	N	N	The Key to the Kingdom	\\"Walt Disney: An American Original\\" professes to be the authorized biography of Walt Disney. Originally written in 1976, ten years after Walt's death, and then revised in 1994 for the Hyperion Press. The book is well written and told in almost story-like fashion tells the active life of one of the all-time greats of the 20th century: Walt Disney.<br />Author Bob Thomas nicely builds his life from his ancestral French relatives and how they came to settle in Small Town U.S.A. Giving a sturdy view of his grandparents and parents lives, we come to understand the lifestyle and times in which Walt was born under so we better appreciate his influences. I particularly found it interesting how Walt himself can recall his own childhood with such vividness from the smells, sights and events that went on around him. Seems such a curious child but always with a hopeful attitude.<br />Once he began working in the animation studio with Ub Iwerks, his longtime friend and extremely gifted animator as well, we can see Walt's career unfolding. The small nuances of the transitions between the Alice comedies and Oswald and Mickey always seemed vague to me, however, this book discussed those moments which became clearer. How Roy came aboard to help Walt is also better understood from this book.<br />When Walt finally broke ground with Steamboat Willie and Mickey Mouse became a household name, Bob Thomas began already looking towards the theme park as Disney's ultimatum in life. As Walt began preparing the actual construction for the theme park, the author leads us to believe that everything that pre-dated the idea was all for a theme park. From this he began to neglect the animation department and the films themselves. While it may be evident in the late 50's to his death that most of the live-action films that Disney Productions made do not have Disney's hand in them, but there is no mention of how they came about either. Disney oversaw everything that went on and it would have been nice to include Disney's thoughts on various projects.<br />If one reads \\"The Illusion of Life: Disney Animation\\" one gets the sense that Walt was thoroughly involved in all of the animated film to the time of his death, yet this is not clearly implied in this book. \\"Walt Disney: An American Original\\" begins with a conversation with the author and Walt as they are driving through the undeveloped location of the future site of Disneyland in Anaheim. It seems, then, from an almost biased attempt to demonstrate that all of Walts works were towards the parks end. If one takes a little time to catch a glimpse of what it might be like to think like Walt based on this book, the park was not the end. Nor was Walt Disney World. Certainly not Tokyo nor EuroDisney. Backtracking in his life a bit, there were moments in Walts life when he was like a ball of fire where everthing he came in contact gave him ideas and inspirations. From the feature length film to television to merchandise live-action film of just about any subject to the theme park. Walt may have made distinctions about where he wanted to center most of his creative energy, but in the meantime he seemed as if he was willing to do just about anything. Yes, Walt was a man who admired experimentation and so new ideas were never put down.<br />So I find it unfortunate that the focus moved so heavily into the developement of the theme park and not to also include his workings with the animators in the later pictures of Robin Hood, Sleeping Beauty and others which receieve only a cursory glance. Also, his life with his wife Lilly seemed remote until the final years of his life when she must have been around the studio more often. His home life is rarely described which leads me to believe he did not have much of a home outside his studio.<br />The other main focus of the book was Walt's relationship with Roy and their financial problems they had until the opening of Disneyland in 1955. Accoringly, they never made money oftheir own from the films they made due to many inconveniences such as the war, union strikes, labor costs, and dealing with the wrong people.<br />The book offers select photos of Walt in his life, but nothing that is striking or new to the usual Disney consumer. Only one photo of the picket line in front of the Disney Studios offers a larger context of times in which Disney grew out of.<br />It is obvious that The Walt Disney Company still exists, however, I heavily doubt it would be what Walt would have wanted provided he lived. What is most evident from this book is that Walt is a family man, and Disney is a family business. Ron Miller who married his daughter eventually came to be the CEO in the mid-eighties (the worst period in the Disney Studios history). Roy and his son Roy E. both were presidents at one point or another. Before Walt was an animator, before he was a producer and director of films and before he was a theme park entrepreneur, Walt was a storyteller first and foremost. While this is a great book and reads very well, it is certainly not a complete book. It may be said of someone like Walt that a complete biography could never be written in one book.of their own from the films they made due to many inconveniences such as the war, union strikes, labor costs, and dealing with the wrong people. <br />The book offers select photos of Walt in his life, but nothing that is striking or new to the usual Disney consumer. Only one photo of the picket line in front of the Disney Studios offers a larger context of times in which Disney grew out of. <br />It is obvious that The Walt Disney Company still exists, however, I heavily doubt it would be what Walt would have wanted provided he lived. What is most evident from this book is that Walt is a family man, and Disney is a family business. Ron Miller who married his daughter eventually came to be the CEO in the mid-eighties (the worst period in the Disney Studios history). Roy and his son Roy E. both were presidents at one point or another. Before Walt was an animator, before he was a producer and director of films and before he was a theme park entrepreneur, Walt was a storyteller first and foremost. While this is a great book and reads very well, it is certainly not a complete book. It may be said of someone like Walt that a complete biography could never be written in one book.	2003-01-05
US	50971011	R6LW4107D3SQ8	0821228153	569735630	Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Man Behind the Camera	&quot;Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures&quot; is more of a compendium to the documentary video released with the Kubrick Collection boxed set than a book of its own inspration. It's a trip through times past for both wife and author Christiane Kubrick as well as for the viewer who grew up with Kubrick's marvelous films. The book allows a deeper and more accessible view of the Man Behind the Camera.<br />Watching Kubrick's films, one gets the sense that something greater than a single man is directing these movies. Looking at these behind the scenes photos I hear the words &quot;Dont' pay attention to the man behind the camera,&quot; as Kubrick plays the Almighty Oz in the production of his films.<br />The book is presented in a large hardback volume with glossy pages; all of the photos are black and white. We see Stanley from an infant all the way through to his work on &quot;Eyes Wide Shut.&quot; The final pages also offer some pre-production sketches for &quot;Artificial Intelligence.&quot; It is less of a book to read than a book to look through, although there are small captions to each picture that Christiane gives the reader the time and place and offers a little insight into Stanley's thinking.<br />With a foreward by Stephen Spielberg (the eventual director for &quot;A.I.&quot;), &quot;Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures&quot; is designed for the Kubrick fan, but serves as a memoir for Mrs. Kubrick. As she mentions in the introduction, &quot;The photographs will...correct the mistaken view of Stanley as some sort of isolationist misanthrope out of Dr. Mabuse by way of Howard Hughes.&quot;	2003-01-05
US	50971011	R2CA1925NKUMHC	0440153255	934252199	Hollywood Babylon: The Legendary Underground Classic of Hollywood's Darkest and Best Kept Secrets	Books	5	61	73	N	N	Stars Shimmer as they get Dimmer	Like any newspaper article, events are turned into \\"stories.\\" These \\"stories\\", like any silver screen biography, tells the dramatic tale of a life in turmoil. Kenneth Anger's book, \\"Hollywood Babylon\\" takes the angle of a tabloid and digs up some old dirt of famous celebrity lives and puts it into a full collection of grime, grease and oil. This collection takes a chronological look at Hollywood's finest at the time beginning in the early twenties with such big names as Fatty Arbuckle whose drinking problem got out of hand at one of his big parties after signing a lucrative deal. Moving through time to the 30's, 40's, right up to the Sharon Tate murder, which Anger recognized it was no longer \\"Old Hollywood.\\"<br /> The book reads like a gossip column mixed with sleazy tabloid journalism, yet with the wit and humor of a prankster. It's an exploitation of exploited lives. To mimic tabloids further, the pages appear with large and sometimes disturbing photos of stars at their most inopportune moments.<br />While much of the material has already had its heyday in newspapers of the times, it has a new life today where many of these actors and actresses are virtually unheard of by the general public and rekindled new interest in their films. Just as watching and old O. J. Simpson football game may have the same appeal as watching Lana Turner in her debut \\"They Won't Forget.\\"<br /> The title to me is entirely fitting, as Hollywood is the \\"Babylon\\" of our society, one in which everyone has all their wants at their disposal. A place where hedonism is the religion and tragedy is only the end of a scene, for we know by the end of the movie everything will be all right. My only disappointment in the book is its cursory glance at such stars as Marylyn Monroe, Jayne Mansfield and many other stars that became almost a tally only to be put under a heading of how they died. \\"Hollywood Babylon\\" still fits the bill, however, as an enticing and racy read of the darker seedy side of that strange and secret society.that strange and secret society.	2002-12-06
US	50971011	R1MC23Z44I6IXZ	0874775434	580346469	Your Mythic Journey: Finding Meaning in Your Life Through Writing and Storytelling (Inner Work Book)	Books	5	77	77	N	N	Your Song	I have read a few of Sam Keens books up to now and I am always amazed that he can write about philosophy, psychology or mythology with such compassion. \\"Your Mythic Journey\\", on the other hand, is not so much a book, rather a guided tour. Originally published in 1973 under a different title, \\"Telling Your Story: A Guide to Who You Are and Who You Can Be,\\" was changed later when mythology became the buzzword for intellectuals. Sam Keen has worked closely with mythologist Joseph Campbell in his later years in which modern psychology was married with mythology.<br /> Keen realized the power of storytelling, not just in a mythological approach, but also in telling the stories of our own lives how we are all living the lives of the great heroes. \\"Your Mythic Journey\\" helps you to discover the story in your own life and understand it mythologically as well as practically. The book is not one to be read, but to be written. This is done through a series of writing and drawing exercises facilitated through a series of deep probing questions. These questions are designed to challenge yourself, your beliefs, your values and your identity where you plunge the depths of your unconscious and swim the currents of time past, present and future. When you finally come to the shores of waking reality, you soon have a new understanding of yourself and the world you live in.<br /> There are a number of ways to utilize this book. The first is you can do it by yourself, and go through and answer the questions. The second is to do it with a group of friends, family or your lover. The latter approach can also be done on a silent level, where one reads the questions for all to answer, or you can read each other your answers, which I found adds a whole new dimension to the process. It can become very emotional for some, shameful for others, enlightening to most, and discouraging to few. Regardless of your response, no doubt it will be revealing. The trick is to be honest with yourself and not hide behind that social mask thinking people will look down on your for having \\"other\\" thoughts. When you do this in a group session, you realize your \\"other\\" thoughts are not so different.<br /> The aim of \\"Your Mythic Journey\\" is to be revealing about yourself, but also to know and tell the story of your life. What Mr. Keen has always expressed in his lectures and readings is that people tend to get stuck on various stories and end up repeating them over and over like a broken record. He remarks this with the example of recovering alcoholics who continue to tell their story of being addicted and how they went to AA meetings for recovery. They go on telling the story to everyone as if they are always at a meeting. This book challenges those that are repeating stories to begin to tell new stories of their lives and experiences. We all have them it's just a matter of beginning to share them with others.t hide behind that social mask thinking people will look down on your for having \\"other\\" thoughts. When you do this in a group session, you realize your \\"other\\" thoughts are not so different. <br /> The aim of \\"Your Mythic Journey\\" is to be revealing about yourself, but also to know and tell the story of your life. What Mr. Keen has always expressed in his lectures and readings is that people tend to get stuck on various stories and end up repeating them over and over like a broken record. He remarks this with the example of recovering alcoholics who continue to tell their story of being addicted and how they went to AA meetings for recovery. They go on telling the story to everyone as if they are always at a meeting. This book challenges those that are repeating stories to begin to tell new stories of their lives and experiences. We all have them it's just a matter of beginning to share them with others.	2002-12-06
US	50971011	RESV278KL7TEG	0877280797	80023892	Transcendental Magic	Books	5	64	70	N	N	Transcendental Magic Gets You High	Perhaps one of the most elusive books on the occult market is Eliphas Levi's &#34;Transcendental Magic: It's Doctrine and Ritual&#34;. Originally written in French with the title &#34;Dogme et Ritual de la Haute Magie&#34; (1855-1856, published in two volumes), translated literally as &#34;The Dogma and Ritual of High Magic&#34;, revised to the current title by translator and commentator, the questionable Arthur Edward Waite.<br />&#34;Transcendental Magic&#34; is broken into two books, appropriately &#34;Doctrine&#34; and &#34;Ritual&#34;. Both books are divided up into 22 chapters. While it seems evident to any occult student that they equate to the tarot deck and Hebrew letter/number system, A. E. Waite immediately rejects this as only coincidence by stating &#34;that which emerges, however, is its utter confusion.&#34; Waite apparently had difficulty relating the first chapter, &#34;The Candidate&#34; to the Juggler (Waite was part of the Golden Dawn which alters various symbols from the O.T.O, A.'.A.'., and other occult schools). Furthermore, the second book begins with &#34;Preparations&#34;, which Waite believes makes no correspondence to &#34;The Candidate&#34; or The Juggler. Waite who translated the book to a very readable and exciting version is too hung up on historical accuracy, which accounts for most of his confusion. Waite is trying to fit square pegs into round holes.<br />Eliphas Levi, a priest of the Catholic Church, although wrote about occultism, still maintained faith in the Church. As one reads his other works, such as &#34;The Great Secret&#34; or &#34;The Mysteries of the Qabalah&#34;, you will see his faith in Christianity is still evident from his exposition on the Christian and Jewish myths. &#34;Transcendental Magic&#34;, however, still stands as his most impressive and complete work, which, as well has touches of Christianity within its pages. Any honest occultist will recognize the value of Christian and Jewish mythology as the foundation of modern occult practice. As expounded by Levi a number of times, any good Church-going Christian will know what &#34;The Seven Seals of St. John&#34; is referring.<br />It may be evident immediately that a once read will not suffice in capturing the meaning of Levi's words. I found immensely valuable a dictionary of etymology and a Greek, Hebrew and Latin dictionary (Oxford I prefer for all). Levi employs many strange words that one will need to know on a continual basis to grasp entirely. These words are paradoxical in practical work: they serve to further understanding by decoding various names and they serve as symbols unto themselves that one uses to activate various states. The beginning of each of the chapters in the book of the Doctrine lists the title, a Roman numeral, a Hebrew character, and a few words in other languages outside of English. It is prudent for the student to study those words in relation to all that precedes and follows it. They don't make sentences, but they will make sense.<br />While at first I read it from front to back, but as I was studying it, I found it more effective to read the first chapter from the Doctrine and then the first chapter from the Ritual. Essentially what you are reading is the &#34;philosophical attitude&#34; one must take, and then a means in which to maintain or carry that attitude through. The most confusing aspect for modern occultists is the Tarot attributions. There are many people who buy this in hopes for a book on Tarot, but they will certainly be disappointed. In most decks, it is common to give The Fool the numerical attribution of &#34;0&#34;, the world egg, the inner and outer, evolution and involution. What Levi does is attribute 21 to the Fool, &#34;Dentes Furca Amens&#34; - the serpent tongue, the forked tooth (ala Shin), or liar in our modern nomenclature. Levi, however, is not alluding only to lying, but also &#34;slips of the tongue&#34; as in a Freudian nature and also speaking without restraint of thought. This chapter is headed with &#34;Divination&#34;, where a diviner does not listen to their thoughts or prejudge a situation. They let the words roll off the tongue. This perhaps confuses anyone studying Crowley or Waite's deck or any popular run-of-the-mill tarot (save the Hall/Knapp and Taviglione decks).<br />To think of this book purely as a guide to the Tarot is to misunderstand the work entirely. As Levi says in the first chapter, &#34;The man who loves his own opinions and fears to part with them, who suspects new truths, who is unprepared to doubt everything rather than admit anything on chance, should close this book: for him it is useless and dangerous.&#34;<br />To the student who is persistent in challenge, willing to discredit his own knowledge will find this book to his advantage. It may also be useful to check up on some of Aleister Crowley's works as he was highly influenced by Levi, and his perspective may lighten things up. Specifically Magic Book 4 and Book of Thoth which discuss some of Levi's works.<br /><br />EDIT: 12/7/15 - I would like to bring purchasers attention to this Red Wheel/Weiser edition. I had purchased it about 3 years ago and the size of the book ran about 10&#34; high by about 7 inches wide. It currently runs at 8&#34; high by 5&#34; wide. Red Wheel over the years have continually cheapened their books for a print-on-demand quality, and unfortunately, seminal books such as this one gets treated the same. My first edition was from Bracken Books, later to Samuel Weiser (before Red Wheel bought them), and finally to this newer edition (which had some typos if I remember correctly). While some people do not mind, I am point this out because while the process of printing has gotten cheaper, the prices of the book has gotten more expensive. The cover price says $34.95, which is more expensive than any new hardcover book on the market. I really think this should be a $17 book at best and then further discounted from there. There is no reason for that cost for a cheaply printed book. But in their defense, the images are at least in tact and clean.s chapter is headed with &#34;Divination&#34;, where a diviner does not listen to their thoughts or prejudge a situation. They let the words roll off the tongue. This perhaps confuses anyone studying Crowley or Waite's deck or any popular run-of-the-mill tarot (save the Hall/Knapp and Taviglione decks). To think of this book purely as a guide to the Tarot is to misunderstand the work entirely. As Levi says in the first chapter, &#34;The man who loves his own opinions and fears to part with them, who suspects new truths, who is unprepared to doubt everything rather than admit anything on chance, should close this book: for him it is useless and dangerous.&#34; To the student who is persistent in challenge, willing to discredit his own knowledge will find this book to his advantage. It may also be useful to check up on some of Aleister Crowley's works as he was highly influenced by Levi, and his perspective may lighten things up. Specifically Magic Book 4 and Book of Thoth which discuss some of Levi's works.  EDIT: 12/7/15 - I would like to bring purchasers attention to this Red Wheel/Weiser edition. I had purchased it about 3 years ago and the size of the book ran about 10&#34; high by about 7 inches wide. It currently runs at 8&#34; high by 5&#34; wide. Red Wheel over the years have continually cheapened their books for a print-on-demand quality, and unfortunately, seminal books such as this one gets treated the same. My first edition was from Bracken Books, later to Samuel Weiser (before Red Wheel bought them), and finally to this newer edition (which had some typos if I remember correctly). While some people do not mind, I am point this out because while the process of printing has gotten cheaper, the prices of the book has gotten more expensive. The cover price says $34.95, which is more expensive than any new hardcover book on the market. I really think this should be a $17 book at best and then further discounted from there. There is no reason for that cost fora cheaply printed book. But in their defense, the images are at least in tact and clean.	2002-12-02
US	50971011	R24P4OL073B5NT	0877289085	361955218	The General Principles of Astrology	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Crowley's Astrology under the guise of Adams	This new tome from notorious occultist Crowley was originally two books with Evangeline Adams as its author. According to the introduction by H. Beta, Crowley was in New York for sometime and met with Adams whom they were to write a book on astrology together. Due to unfortunate circumstances, Adams took the material that Crowley wrote, reworked, omitted and added her own material and eventually became an authority on the subject. The two books by Adams, &quot;Your Place in the Sun&quot; and &quot;Your Place Among the Stars&quot; (written 1927 and 1930 respectively) are essentially the works of Aleister Crowley. This edition by Samuel Weiser brings back Crowley's original writings in their original form and in one book. In a similar format as Magick Book 4, 'The General Principles of Astrology' is bound in a nice maroon hardcover cloth book with a sigil embossed on the cloth cover in metallic gold (looks like a modified Mercury symbol). Crowley's writing at many times is elusive even for the most astute occultist, however, as in Magick 4, he is making great efforts to be clear to a larger audience. The text was written in 1915 before the discovery of Pluto, so for some astrologers that may be your only set back.<br />In my opinion and from what I know of Crowley, the work is largely unfinished, however, what is presented is entirely a workable system. Crowley probably had the least amount of faith in astrology as a science among all the occult arts, but because he was so verse in many subjects, he is not one to let it be unexplored. Astrology seems as vast a subject as Kabbalah, as so much is written about it, that it seems that no one person can legitimately claim authority. My preference is Alan Leo's work even though much of his work is before Pluto as well. Crowley stands as a modern authority on much occult work that this was a book I could trust in giving a clear exposition on the subject.<br />The book is broken up similarly to the many astrology books out there on the market today. Beginning general aspects of the houses, different signs to be aware of and their meanings and a correspondence with his tarot deck. Then a discourse on the meanings of the planets, rising signs, sun signs with each of their attributes and characteristics. After a large section taken up by each planey in a sign, he ends with 100 or so famous people and their horoscopes. So in my opinion, Crowley could have easily enlarged this already big work (596 pages!). In sum, the book is well presented and will look sharp on any bookshelf, and for any serious astrologer to consider this excellent entry into the large world of the study of the astros.here on the market today. Beginning general aspects of the houses, different signs to be aware of and their meanings and a correspondence with his tarot deck. Then a discourse on the meanings of the planets, rising signs, sun signs with each of their attributes and characteristics. After a large section taken up by each planey in a sign, he ends with 100 or so famous people and their horoscopes. So in my opinion, Crowley could have easily enlarged this already big work (596 pages!). In sum, the book is well presented and will look sharp on any bookshelf, and for any serious astrologer to consider this excellent entry into the large world of the study of the astros.	2002-10-12
US	50971011	R2MIFH6ZTERZUG	0877289409	774151990	The Mysteries of the Qabalah: or Occult Agreement of the Two Testaments	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Agreement of the OT and NT	This book is actually a second part of a trilogy beginning with &quot;The Book of Splendours&quot; and ending with &quot;The Great Secret&quot;, in which Eliphas Levi expounds his experiences of magic, qabalah, tarot and the divine and universal energies. To explain the subtitle of this book, &quot;The Mysteries of the Qabalah: Occult Agreement of the Two Testaments&quot;, is essentially there is a strong correlation between the prophecies of Ezekiel in the Old Testament and the Book of Revelations of St. John in the New Testament. As you read, you will notice that Levi quotes the scriptures somewhat loosely, however not miscontruing the nature of the text. The italicized are the scriptural, while the regular print is Levi's commentary. Within these pages are many symbolic drawings which help the reader understand some of the writings which can be abstract and elusive at times. Erudite occultists will immediately recognize some of the drawings from various tarot interpretations, qabalistic, alchemical and astrological relationships as well as magical symbols represented throughout the text. Through all of this formulaic instruction, Levi is attempting to empower the reader with special knowledge, which I will explain. First, the writers of both the Old Testament and New Testament had divine insight. That there is a universal consciousness at work in which both prophecies reveal similar experiences and visions (told in different cultural symbols). Second, the formulas at hand are a means towards the Great Work. That is, the design of the symbol is of utmost importance in understanding how one is to proceed in their Work. Lastly, that the relationship between Exekiel and St. John are only 2 examples, where Levi also gives other examples from the Hindu, Greek, Roman and Pagan societies that make for similar arguments. The writing style of Eliphas Levi is one that can easily be said of as creative and highly imaginative, but with no base in reality. Contrary one might describe it as divinely insightful, yet, ambiguous enough for any interpretation that one sees fit. Because there is no definitive quality in his writing, Levi is not for the beginning occultist or practitioner of the magical arts. While his writings are manditory for any serious magician, intelligence is duly needed when studying his works. In regards to 'The Mysteries of the Qabalah', while this being the second of the trilogy, there is no neccesity in following his arrangement, however, I would not suggest this book as a primer of Levi's works. In my personal experience, this book is not to be read, but studied in conjuction with a Greek and Hebrew Bible, and a dictionary of each of those languages for a fuller understanding as well as a to draw your own conclusions as to whether Eliphas Levi is correct in his revelation. While I am still in the course of exploring these issues personally, I enjoy Levi's work, not because I find him more right than wrong, but specifically because he sparks my intellect as well as my imagination. It allows me to keep searching for my own truths about myself and the universe.escribe it as divinely insightful, yet, ambiguous enough for any interpretation that one sees fit. Because there is no definitive quality in his writing, Levi is not for the beginning occultist or practitioner of the magical arts. While his writings are manditory for any serious magician, intelligence is duly needed when studying his works. In regards to 'The Mysteries of the Qabalah', while this being the second of the trilogy, there is no neccesity in following his arrangement, however, I would not suggest this book as a primer of Levi's works. In my personal experience, this book is not to be read, but studied in conjuction with a Greek and Hebrew Bible, and a dictionary of each of those languages for a fuller understanding as well as a to draw your own conclusions as to whether Eliphas Levi is correct in his revelation. While I am still in the course of exploring these issues personally, I enjoy Levi's work, not because I find him more right than wrong, but specifically because he sparks my intellect as well as my imagination. It allows me to keep searching for my own truths about myself and the universe.	2002-05-30
US	50971011	RQ9YI9BEWTK24	0345339681	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Slow but Moving	Tolkein's now classic fairy tale of the land of Middle Earth and its inhabitants, the Hobbits, is an enchanting and mythical story of the underdog hero Bilbo. The so-called prequel to the Lord of the Rings trilogy is actually a splice or intersection of the Ring in which Bilbo discovers the ring in Golem's cave. The story of Bilbo and his adventures is classic lore of slaying the dragon to win the pot of gold. With his band of misfits and hungry tweedle-dee and tweedle-dum gnomes, there is a comic ambiance to the story that helps the reader through some of the slow scenes. While this is not a must read to understand the Ring Trilogy, it certainly is a worth while read unto itself without the burden of two more books to complete the journey. Tolkein's writing is fun and witty while asking the reader to understand a few new words in his created language. There are times as well that the story slows down either for narrative purposes where the writing speaks to you, the reader, or for the group to sing a song to celebrate their happiness in the style of medieval celtic literature. While the book is reccomended and in some cases manditory, it's an overall enjoyable read.	2002-05-29
US	50971011	R2INGA5TZWKQD0	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Evolution of Man	I have seen the Stanley Kubrick film of the same title hundreds of times before I decided to read the book. As the opening credits in the film state, &quot;Screenplay by Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke&quot;. Because the movie and the book were written simultaneously, I never thought the book would be much different. Once I began reading, however, I was stunned at how wrong I was, where in fact there was more than I dreamed of. What the movie could not convey, or maybe even did not want to convey was exposed in the writing. Clarke writes with clarity and passion; not just for writing, but also science as a means of expressing ones own existence. That existence being the ultimate question of man's relationship with the universe and the environment he has created for himself. The book is existential as well as mystical: scientific as well as theological: revaltory as well as inquisitive. The story follows the same track as the movie, yet with inner dialogue of the apes on Earth and their first meeting with the Black Monolith, describing how the impact of this clean, smooth, black mystery impacted their means of survival through the use of weaponry and tools. Following some 2001 years later into deep space towards Jupiter we meet H.A.L., another enigma that similarly impacts man and his ability to control his fate or destiny. For anyone who has seen the movie, the book will not surprise you as far as the generic structure of the story, yet Clarke's handling of the subject completely unknown at the time is simply startling.<br />Published in 1968 (a year before landing on the moon), Clarke dedicates this book to Stanley Kubrick. Likewise, Kubrick made a similar gesture with his film. This new edition includes some thoughts on the year 2001, as well as a small write-up on his relationship with Stanley. Highly reccomended.	2002-05-29
US	50971011	R1S44LKIJH6K2W	0802130550	760708497	An Introduction to Zen Buddhism	Books	5	21	28	N	N	A Beginning for Zen Students	The one criticism that Zen practitioners offer in the world of Zen in the Western culture is that it has been intellectualized into absurdity. That is to say, in the Taoist tradition, by understanding Zen is not to understand it. Modern Zen in the West has taken on a psychological approach where one thinks in order to \\"get it\\", one must break it down in terms of how the mind responds while in practice. When one does not \\"get it\\" then it is written off as silly, irrational or impratical. From the writings of D. T. Suzuki, this irrationality is the root from which the practice begins. To put the student into a state of paradox because, \\"simply the human tongue is not an adequate organ for expressing the deepest truths\\". When there is no verbal expression, or thought connected with words in which to speak, then a paradox is set up. A crux that forfits the tongue and makes room for action. Suzuki who is known as the introducer of Zen as well as the foremost authority on the subject in the West writes clearly and accurately, which is impressive knowing that English is not his native language. Throughout the book Suzuki sites many examples of ancient literature of Zen Masters, monks and students who have experienced satori or enlightenment through the use of stories, anecdotes and parables. These \\"stories\\" are told as if they are historical, yet are designed to further the student into irrationality. In Western terms, it means to break the yes/no logic of the rational mind. While the book reads easily, Suzuki writes intellectually. Although it is intellectual, there is not a sense he is talking down to the reader or intellectualizing the subject. To epitomize the paradox, Suzuki is describing what is not Zen more so than what is Zen by the sheer fact that Zen is not a thing to grasp or see. By his descriptions, the only way it can be exposed most accurately is through the description of what is not Zen. The reader, after trying to pick sides of what Zen may in fact be will struggle with this. Is this Zen? Or is this not Zen? Upon giving up on the struggle, the last section of the book is reprinted in-part, Suzuki's book, 'The Training of the Zen Monk' and may come to some conclusion that Zen is not a thing or idea or philosophy, but a life to live by. Decribing the techniques and practices of various Zen disciplines, Suzuki emphasizes the strict lifestyle and loyalty to their work. I feel the word \\"work\\" best describes this lifestyle. I do not mean a job by any sense of the word, by work as in \\"doing with conscious intent\\". But because I dont practice Zen, I can intellectualize a little bit, which is why I practice yoga.l struggle with this. Is this Zen? Or is this not Zen? Upon giving up on the struggle, the last section of the book is reprinted in-part, Suzuki's book, 'The Training of the Zen Monk' and may come to some conclusion that Zen is not a thing or idea or philosophy, but a life to live by. Decribing the techniques and practices of various Zen disciplines, Suzuki emphasizes the strict lifestyle and loyalty to their work. I feel the word \\"work\\" best describes this lifestyle. I do not mean a job by any sense of the word, by work as in \\"doing with conscious intent\\". But because I dont practice Zen, I can intellectualize a little bit, which is why I practice yoga.	2002-05-29
US	50971011	R17GXG2I38M1YW	0893142069	89284735	Paracelsian Philosophy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Teachings of a Master	There are 5 audio cassettes that will take you roughly 5 hours to listen to. But once you listen to Manly Hall's lectures on Paracelsus you will be moved, inspired and amazed. Paracelsus, whose super long name I will not write here, is considered the father of alchemy. Using his experience and insight of both the medical and chemistry fields of study to understand the nature of the natural universe. This is the universe which exists without filters the mind uses to discriminate between left and right, good and bad, right and wrong. That which is left is between (the word Parzival literally means &quot;between the mountains). This essentially was known at the time as 'ether'. Today we refer to it as astral, or neurotransmitter. These lectures by Manly Hall are well thought out, clearly stated and scholarly in nature. Hall gives a comprehensive look at the world of Paracelsian thought as well as the life of Paracelsus. The only drawback to this collection is the sound quality. While sometimes, as the reviewer for the 'Alchemy' collection noted, you have to &quot;squint your ears&quot; in order to hear some of his words. Some parts were clear with little trouble understanding what Hall says, other times its muffled and gets lost. I know I dont have the best quality tape deck in my car (and listening in the car will limit my hearing as well), but it is a noticable change in quality from one tape to the next. Hall gives you a truck load of information and to absorb it all will not happen in one listening. Many are reqiured if one is out to get a full grasp of this Masters work. Highly reccomended.	2002-04-18
US	50971011	R2KULI7MCVW38O	0671727397	163513556	Amityville Horror	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Ashamedly, this is not a True Story	Before reading this book, I was aware already that the story was a hoax. Yet, the question that continued to plague me about this story is, \\"Why is this story a hoax, and who would contrive such a thing? And for what reason?\\" Growing up with this story in the background of my life, I was intrigued by its speculative nature as well as the thrill of letting the scare get the best of my emotions. Finally, upon reading it (along with being a little wiser than my youth), it became more and more apparent that the story was not as honest as I would have hoped. With the movie fresh in my mind, it was difficult not to make comparisons as well as use the movie as reference to better visualize the incidents. To do this became increasingly difficult because there are many scenes in the book that do not appear in the movie.<br />The climax of the book, the white shrouded person standing on the top of the stairs, typically doing nothing else except pointing, would have lost credibility in cinema format. There are other instances that seemed not only unbelievable, but far fetched. One such instance was the green slime. What is this about? Lastly, the reading level was that of a lesser Anne Rule book with 'Goosebumps' like tactics for scariness. Aside from my criticism, there were some genuine scary moments. Mostly the moments that seem trivial and unpresuming, to me, are the most frightening because those are the moments in which you truly question your sanity. To me that is scarier than an incorporeal being floating around the hell of it (pun intended).<br />Nonetheless, my intrigue got the best of me for the real story and so I looked up in the New York Times the incidents revolving around this. The Ronald DeFeo case was more the ravings of a drug addict who was out to score some cash. While it is true all 6 members of the family were killed lying on their stomachs with their arms above thier heads, they were not shot in the back of the head, but rather back and stomach area. Apparently he had drugged them during a dinner thus no one heard the shots from his high powered rifle. Finally, the Lutzes, along with writer Jay Anson and another partner contrived the story after the DeFeo incident and made him the culprit of a possession by spirit which \\"told\\" him to kill the family. So the motive seemed more like a sacrificial rite than a person after some money. Eventually George Lutz admitted to have made the story up, as was some of the testimony given by some parapsychologists who tested the grounds and came up with nothing of a psychic nature.<br />The book reads like a novel, and will take you little time or effort especially if you have seen the movie. Any \\"true\\" novel that has quote after quote and is able to point out minute details of ones daily life 4 years after the fact is questionable to me. I read this out of intrigue from my youth, as well as my interest in demonic possession, which is seemed the author is familiar at least with the classic nature of possession. Unfortunately no new revelation came from this story other than some excitement of fantasy. A fun book that you will surely enjoy if not taken seriously.Apparently he had drugged them during a dinner thus no one heard the shots from his high powered rifle. Finally, the Lutzes, along with writer Jay Anson and another partner contrived the story after the DeFeo incident and made him the culprit of a possession by spirit which \\"told\\" him to kill the family. So the motive seemed more like a sacrificial rite than a person after some money. Eventually George Lutz admitted to have made the story up, as was some of the testimony given by some parapsychologists who tested the grounds and came up with nothing of a psychic nature. <br />The book reads like a novel, and will take you little time or effort especially if you have seen the movie. Any \\"true\\" novel that has quote after quote and is able to point out minute details of ones daily life 4 years after the fact is questionable to me. I read this out of intrigue from my youth, as well as my interest in demonic possession, which is seemed the author is familiar at least with the classic nature of possession. Unfortunately no new revelation came from this story other than some excitement of fantasy. A fun book that you will surely enjoy if not taken seriously.	2002-04-18
US	50971011	R1QGIEZ3XP5MUM	156718247X	922297541	Naked Soul: Astral Travel & Cosmic Relationships	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Go Naked!	Astral traveling is becoming just the trendy thing to do on a lonely Friday night. So if you got no one to sleep with, the internet is too impersonal and expensive, well then you can astral travel and see if there is someone out there for you. The author's intention is certainly not to treat the astral plane as a dating service, but rather for the experience of losing yourself in the embracement of energy with another soul. While sex is not the same, it is a union of energy, be it atomic, molecular, or even electric. The aurhor, Marlene Marie Druhan, gives some elementary, yet clearly stated, preparations in order to achieve the out of body experience. Once this discussion is over, she moves to her experiences of astral travel, various forms of spirits and so on. To me, all of this is subjective and cannot be quantitative data as she stately puts. What she describes in some cases sound less of an astral experience and more of hallucinations. There is nothing wrong with hallucinations, however, she fails to differentiate between the astral or hallucinations. Her descriptions of possessive spirits and incubuses and succubuses seem as though the body is being pushed by other spirits own wants and desires. There is no doubt experimenting with mind expansion of any kind can be scary as it unlocks secrets chambers of the brain and body, as well as creates a unique connection with the spirit, I would hesitate to rely on Ms. Druhan's perceptions as accuate. Once we are in the astral world, there are things we can describe, however, it would be foolish to believe that others would be able to see them with you. But if you are regularly entering the Astral Plane on Friday nights, then by all means, prove me wrong. Validate what the author wrote.	2002-03-29
US	50971011	R3CXXYICXK3Y8	0893148415	477258523	The Hermetic Marriage (Adept Series)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Marriage of the Sun and Moon	This short work is on the Hermetic Marriage of the Androgyne, or in other terms, the making whole of the mind and body, left and right, above and below. Manly Hall, who explains this process in extreme practical clarity discusses the history and origins of Hermetics, as well as its philosophy through anatomy. He also illuminates some examples of literature and its alchemical symbolism within. The core of the understanding is the alchemical trine of salt, sulphur, and mercury. By fusing or mixing these together, you create the elixir of life or philosopher's stone. In the end the aim is towards a spiritual life that is fused with the phsyical life. As the alchemical adage of the times was, &quot;Make fire to burn in the water, and the water to feed the fire. In this lies great wisdom.&quot;	2002-03-21
US	50971011	RLR2JQJNAI50Y	0595132642	533484754	Possessed	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A Modern Exorcism	The Excorcist had such a powerful impact on the American psyche at the release in 1973, that it is difficult for the average person to separate those images of Regan from anything else related to the idea of \\"possession.\\" Thomas B. Allen comments upon this fact, however, does little to differentiate it as well. The thrust of the book is a well documented \\"biography\\" of the events that led \\"Robbie\\" into a frenzied state later defined as demonic possession. While some of the facts are interesting, and much can be brought out of this book, it is generally a slow and dry read. Allen illuminates the mysteries that have surrounded this story that occured sometime in 1949, where a little boy began ranting and raving with maniacal noises of a beastly nature, as well as paranormal events of either psychic or poltergeist in nature. Allen does a good job explaining the most well developed and studied cases of demonic possession of psychologist T. K. Oesterreich. Essentially there are 3 stages, which seemed to be present in this case of Robbie: 1)infestation, usually of sounds, rappings, in the environment, 2) obsession, where the subject inherits the spirit, and 3) possession, the take over, or new identity. In Robbie's case, all of these elements seem to be in place, and once the biological, mental and paranormal were exhausted as a possible cause, then one had to look to the spiritual, in which we need an exorcist. This is the story that inspired William Peter Blatty's now classic horror 'The Exorcist.' While the latter has much more to offer in the way of entertainment, it is in exaggerated form. Some elements of, say, voice distortion, physiological changes, markings on the body are present in the case of Robbie, they do not go to the extremes of Regan of a full-blown physical make over.<br />Thomas B. Allen succeeded in making the right connections about the history of the case, however, his retelling needs a spark of life to make it more interesting. Aside from this, a complaint I want to make is the about the publishing. While the pages are good quality and the printing is clean, there seems to be some confusion in the pagination. Once the story is finished, he ends it with the authentic reproduction of the diary that was written on the days of the exorcism in 1949. Following the diary is the author's endnote. Then the puzzling part - a blank page on the left side, and quarter of a page of something about Robbie that begins in the middle of the sentence. The pages follow 296-297. Then to the bibliography, sources, chapter notes, ending with an index. The page 297 seems to come from nowhere, as there is no other page I noticed that was incomplete. What is this mysterious page? Its quite possible that my copy is a fluke, but based on the page numbers, I sincerely doubt this.<br />I reccomend this book to those that are curious of possession and certainly adds to anyones study in demonic possession a supposedly authentic case. Many of the details are still shrouded in secrecy, mystery and history. Those that were alive at the time are either dead or unwilling to talk. \\"Robbie\\" whose name is never revealed apparently is still living, but laregly unaware of the events and therefore does not have much to say about it.complaint I want to make is the about the publishing. While the pages are good quality and the printing is clean, there seems to be some confusion in the pagination. Once the story is finished, he ends it with the authentic reproduction of the diary that was written on the days of the exorcism in 1949. Following the diary is the author's endnote. Then the puzzling part - a blank page on the left side, and quarter of a page of something about Robbie that begins in the middle of the sentence. The pages follow 296-297. Then to the bibliography, sources, chapter notes, ending with an index. The page 297 seems to come from nowhere, as there is no other page I noticed that was incomplete. What is this mysterious page? Its quite possible that my copy is a fluke, but based on the page numbers, I sincerely doubt this. <br />I reccomend this book to those that are curious of possession and certainly adds to anyones study in demonic possession a supposedly authentic case. Many of the details are still shrouded in secrecy, mystery and history. Those that were alive at the time are either dead or unwilling to talk. \\"Robbie\\" whose name is never revealed apparently is still living, but laregly unaware of the events and therefore does not have much to say about it.	2002-02-06
US	50971011	RYHDD5VYWIZRV	0060906766	59010300	The Meaning of Happiness: The Quest for Freedom of the Spirit in Modern Psychology and the Wisdom of the East	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Why Be Happy?	I love Alan Watts' writing. He makes you feel warm, like part of the family, but does not talk down to you like a parent. This book, written in 1940, is one of his earlier works, and you can sense he is still formulating his style. While sometimes scholarly, and other times playful, he mixes the right amount of both perspectives to give the reader a profound sense of being alive. The book is called &quot;The Meaning of Happiness&quot;. While we all have at some point experienced happiness, Watts explores the meaning of what happiness is and how might it be experienced more than a transitory feeling. Happiness is defined essentially as &quot;libertaion,&quot; where one no longer has the need to be happy, or need to be mad or need be anything exept to be. In a round about way it is enlightenment (or enlightenment is happiness). In Watts' calssical style, there is no progression one must endure, it just happens. It happens as easily looking with ones eyes. This is not the happiness that we coined in &quot;dont worry be happy&quot; because this presumes that one has to worry in order to be happy. It is not the, in order to experience happiness we must experience sadness. It is the &quot;transcendence of opposites&quot;. To dispute the Buddha's &quot;all things are sorrow,&quot; Watts says all things are happy.	2002-01-31
US	50971011	R27Y252V5TPJI	0440129613	194399773	The Godwulf Manuscript (Spencer, No. 1) (Spenser)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	The First Spencer Novel	Robert B. Parker's first Spencer novel, The Godwulf Manuscript is a fun and sometimes addictive read of thievery and murder. While not high literature, this book is a classic in its own right, written in 1973, where Spencer became the typical cardboard cutout detective that we see in many B-movies. Witty and sarcastic, and many times flattened emotions to send the \\"I am not amused\\" lines of dialogue. While today this might seem blah to some readers, if read with the idea that this is the first of its kind in the back of your mind, it may be more appreciated. Aside from this, the story is well told in the simplest way without getting fancy. This series went on to some 12 novels and a TV series, 'Spencer for Hire.'For a fun quick read, those who enjoy mystery will enjoy this book.	2002-01-31
US	50971011	R1JWUZO62GNZ8Y	0393311066	193634257	The Courage to Create	Books	5	61	68	N	N	Experiencing that creative 'Aha!' moment	This book, while being a psychology book, is not for psychologists. Its essentially for everyone else; for all those whom deem themselves creative but dont know how to create. The title 'Courage to Create' epitomizes the core understanding of what is true creativity. In a nutshell, author Rollo May explains that to have courage is to move forward &quot;in spite of despair.&quot; This is where creativity is borne out of: out of despair. May then cites many examples of artists, mathematicians, musicians, and other forms where creative thought can be applied. He does not give the read a step by step process in how one can apply techniques, but empowers the reader with an attitude. The attitude of perseverance, encounter relationship, and expression of the deepest levels of our psyche. To be in constant search of ourselves is to be, in one sense, in despair and yet, to challenge that deparity is to have the courage. And by expressing that challenge, one begins to understand creativity. When we have worked and overworked ourselves, then frustration ensues where we leave our work. In this silence, our unconscious is still at work. Then we look bright-eyed and say 'Aha!'. We have created. Author May also includes other aspects that will be helpful to the reader in gaining more awareness and insight to anxiety levels and what the artist may be suppressing emotionally or cognitively. A wonderful book I highly reccomend that will challenge your limitations.	2002-01-31
US	50971011	R1L1Q1JWLYI9K3	0393001423	458565028	The Ego and the Id (The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	5	56	66	N	Y	Language Barrier	Sigmund Freud is not known for his easy-to-read writing style. Those that translated Freud's works have recently been under fire for being misleading or inaccurate. When I set out to read this book, I felt it neccessary to make as many notes neccesary and to dig beneath and between to bring out what Freud really meant by \\"ego\\" and \\"id.\\" To my conclusion, the reason Freud is argued against so much is because of the confusion that surrounds his theories.<br />The words \\"ego\\" and \\"id\\" are Greek, and we have carried them into the English language and then nominalized. By doing this our consciousness solidifies them as things within our brains. The word \\"ego\\" means \\"I\\" or \\"self\\". The word \\"id\\" means \\"non-I\\" or \\"non-self\\", or \\"it.\\" We dont say \\"the I\\" when we refer to ourselves. But so often we say \\"the ego\\" as if to refer to a specific part or thing of our minds.<br />The other confusion that adds to nominalization is then believing the rest of the book is about things in space. Yet, Freud specifically says, \\"The state of things which we have been describing can be respresented diagramatically, though it must be remarked that the form chosen has no pretensions to any special applicability, but is mere intended to serve for purposes of exposition (p. 18).\\" What Freud is saying is that in order to communicate clearly what is happening in ones psyche, or mind, there needs to be a working model of the psyche.That is to say, a model meaning a diagram with its parts that do not act as the psyche itself (or of reality), but shows what the psyche consists of. He does this by discerning that which is \\"descriptive,\\" and that which is \\"dynamic.\\" The descriptive only describes through language or imaginative use, while dynamic is more at the process that actually occurs.<br />Now the model Freud eventually used as a diagram is not a very good model. In fact it is a bit unwieldy and clumsy and in the end served little purpose (later in he updated the model in 'New Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis', 1933). Because Freud is the first to devise the model, it is primitive and modifications would be neccessary. Actually Freud seemed to have modeled what looks to be an ill-defined organ giving way to the idea that it functions like a heart would. While reading the book, I chose not to use the model he drew, but rather found it useful to create my own based on his descriptions of where things are in relation to each other. This does not mean I believe the model is a literal drawing of my mind or anyone elses, but rather a means in which we understand how one part of the psyche works with another. Similarly is Neil Bohr's model of the atom. He did not draw what he actually saw, he created a model only for communication purposes. When a group understands the parts, and the relationship of those parts, then you create a vernacular, or as Freud called it, a \\"shibboleth of psycho-analysis.\\" Then we can clearly understand what we are talking about when referring to these parts.<br />The book is only psychological in language, where Freud describes his theories of ego and id. He raises other aspects of the psyche that one may need to already understand, such as cathexis, the Oedipal complex, displacement, reaction formation and so forth. He sets out essentially how ego is created in relation to id, and by creating our ego we also create repression. It is sometimes misconstrued that ego is associated with egotistical, or egotism, or even conceit, however, Freud is aware that our ego is as much benevalent as malevalent.<br />\\"The Ego and the Id\\" was written in 1923, so the language is sometimes archaic, even in the translated form. Its more popular to be adverse with Freud, usually due to the claims Freud made regarding childhood sexuality, and that all of his theories are based upon sexual experiences in our youth. I believe if one set that opinion aside and read as if you never heard of Freud, you might think differently. I found it useful while reading not only to understand the times Freud wrote in, but to also update the language in more modern terms. If ego does not suit you, choose another word, as long as the relationships and understanding of their functions remain constant. But what you call them may reveal that Freud really hit the mark in describing the functions and processes of our minds. When you observe as he did, you will discover how memories are repressed, what your consciousness holds, what you observe in your consciousness and what you are holding out on in your unconscious. How our ego's and super-ego's (ego-ideal) serve and protect, yet hinder potential. For me, updating the language allowed me to understand Freuds work much better than if I kept his work in the past and attempted to apply it to today. I dont feel that works for any author. It would be like knowing how to fix an Apple IIe and expecting to be able to fix a Macintosh G3 computer.<br />Freud's \\"Ego and the Id\\" is a great book to begin to understand his theories. Its a small book (62 pages) and will create the foundation of understanding for any of his other works. Having a good working knowledge of this book will also aid you in reading other authors who discuss ego functions as well as your ability to discern how the word is used in relation to Freud's understanding.reading not only to understand the times Freud wrote in, but to also update the language in more modern terms. If ego does not suit you, choose another word, as long as the relationships and understanding of their functions remain constant. But what you call them may reveal that Freud really hit the mark in describing the functions and processes of our minds. When you observe as he did, you will discover how memories are repressed, what your consciousness holds, what you observe in your consciousness and what you are holding out on in your unconscious. How our ego's and super-ego's (ego-ideal) serve and protect, yet hinder potential. For me, updating the language allowed me to understand Freuds work much better than if I kept his work in the past and attempted to apply it to today. I dont feel that works for any author. It would be like knowing how to fix an Apple IIe and expecting to be able to fix a Macintosh G3 computer.<br />Freud's \\"Ego and the Id\\" is a great book to begin to understand his theories. Its a small book (62 pages) and will create the foundation of understanding for any of his other works. Having a good working knowledge of this book will also aid you in reading other authors who discuss ego functions as well as your ability to discern how the word is used in relation to Freud's understanding.	2002-01-31
US	50971011	R3S9CFZ0R4JQTZ	0671470450	344790451	Legion	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Case #2 of Lt. Kinderman	After the possession and exorcism of Regan, Lt. Kinderman finds himself in another satanic metaphysical detective case. Unfortunately, not as intriguing as the &quot;first&quot; Exorcist, there are some elements of the book that holds its own. The major problem of the book is that of the author, William Peter Blatty, who is too intent upon letting the reader know how much he knows about films and mataphysics. Kinderman is merely a tool in which Blatty spews his worldly wisdom and philosophy, which, in of itself is a good belief, however, this is not the space for that kind of information. Much of it is irrelevant to the story itself. If one weeds out the philosophy, the story ends up being rather short. The other problem I had with the book was the idea of it being sold as a sequel to the Exorcist. The only thing that makes this remotely a sequel is Detective Kinderman. &quot;Series&quot; would be more like it, as it could have spawned a number of detective stories. Nonetheless, however, it was a fun read, and the story moved along quick and less painful as the first.	2002-01-25
US	50971011	R17HUQ5K5UYA5D	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	32	48	N	N	A New American Model	Noam Chomsky's book '9-11' is a relevant critique of the WTC and Pentagon disasters that will prove to be an eye opener. While I have read various bits of Chomsky's work (including a video of Chomsky's lectures), I favor his view. I have overall little interest in political science, and so much of what Chomsky brings up in this book is new to me. Yet, this did not stop me from catching the underlying theme of what Chomsky is saying: that America is, by definition, a terrorist state. This is what makes Chomsky so controversial. I believe Chomsky makes this statement purely out of objective fact of the US Code. What is purported through the media as the definition of terrorism is that which is attacked against us, or to those nations we \\"like.\\" It is not a popular belief that this works the other way around. Aside from this, Chomsky addresses the the possibilities of why it happened, and what the possible consequences of \\"war\\" may be. Making many analogies to past events and relating world patterns that may prove useful in understanding our current situation. The book is short, but packs a good deal of information where little is repeated. Like most Americans, the events of September 11th had a impact that will be remembered, perhaps for the rest of your life. I highly reccomend this poignant book as it will illuminate some of the myths surrounding the events, as well as give you a keen perspective of what our country is doing without our knowledge.	2002-01-23
US	50971011	RMUQ9UAJI88FP	0809463962	380024993	Time and Space (Mysteries of the Unknown)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Does Time Have a Place?	Time-Life's series &quot;Mysteries of the Unknown&quot; is a fascinating and well accounted collection of strange phenomena and speculations. 'Time and Space' covers ancients concepts of time and space all the way to modern quantum physics of Stephen Hawking. To many of us, Einstein, Hawking, Heisenberg and Penrose's theories are far from anything abnormal, however, when one steps into a place and seemingly transported to another time, this science has yet to acknowledge as either true, or verifiable. Does time has a place, and does space have a time. In some cases it would seem that a particular time is intricately linked with a particular space - and that each, when linked, creates a particular memory that we can view. This is a great series, and gives good objective information from many well known sources.	2002-01-23
US	50971011	RXD96WZ7I1MZM	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	18	23	N	N	A Compelling Read	Schlosser's book 'Fast Food Nation' is about the effects of specialization in the industrial age. More specifically, its the product of transition of industrial turned information. Like the information age, it is primarily concerned with speed (which creates homogenization), while industry is concerned with quantity - yet they are intergral aspects of the Fast Food way. What Schlosser points is the devlopment out of the times in which it was born, that of the superhighways, automobiles and migration to the West. The assembly line coupled with high speed information output gives you the original McDonald's \\"Speedee Service System\\". From this its all down hill. While many of us suspect that McDonald's does not serve high-grade meat to its customers, and other fast food chains are bent upon profit over quality, the book stresses working conditions of both the fast food chains as well as the meatpacking and potato industry. Neither are fun atmospheres, and both apparently have their dangers. It is this revelation to the reader that the author stresses, and to make you aware of what you are eating. Perhaps in a consolidated form, it seems as if eating hamburgers will give you a 1 in 10 chance of digesting a foodborne pathogen. This is the decision the reader must ask: is all the meat bad? Do I want to support McDonalds and other fast food chains and the way they treat people? It is self-evident that companies want to make money. To what end you may ask. From reading this book, I suspect that any large corporation takes little value in their work crew, and process the work with little cost as possible for maximum profits. That is the nature of corporate life.<br />The book is an enjoyable read that goes down easily. Some of the testimonial statements read too much like an A&E biography, expecting the news cast or narrator to shed a tear at any moment. This, to me, takes away some of the objective work that went into the rest of the book. It is clear to the reader that there are some jabs at the fast food market, specifically McDonalds as they are consistently the largest corporation and appear to be the most corrupt from a humanistic point of view; willing to step on anyone who might take away a consumer.<br />It seems that Schlosser may have hit the right button, as controversy surrounding the book builds, that the fast food industry are not making any rebuttals or attempting to remove the book from the shelves. I am sure that Harper-Perennial also made sure that this book is not just anger vented at a particular group made to sound like fact. Whatever you decide, the book is worth the read and cause for good conversation about how to choose your eating style. Because, in the end, from a reader perspective, its not about whether capitalism is great or terrible, or whether McDonalds will rule the world or fall, or if people who choose to work in slaughter houses hate their jobs continue to work there. All of these are in someways inevitable. If its not McDonalds, then some health food idea will come about, and demand will be too great that corners will have to be cut; provided they are out to meet the demands of the people, as well as make a profit. These two factors automatically creates and destroys simultaneously. Either high quality with low distribution, or low quality with high distribution. So it boils down to what your diet will comply with, setting aside beliefs, (beliefs are what advertising is for). In the meantime, check out this book, and talk to someone who has also read it as it will make for some good conversation.<br />The new paperback edition includes an afterword from the author about mad cow disease. But first he includes some negative response from the proper journals, such as McDonald's own periodical. I am not sure if this is to give more credibility to his own work, or make you laugh at thier denials. Either way, the afterword seems irrelevant; after going through the lives of fast food employess, productionlines of potato technology and slaughter houses. The point was heavily made in the first 250 pages, while this just seems to \\"beating a dead horse\\" (for lack of better phrase).n lines of potato technology and slaughter houses. The point was heavily made in the first 250 pages, while this just seems to \\"beating a dead horse\\" (for lack of better phrase).	2002-01-23
US	50971011	ROT34V7C1SXPS	0809463288	539470928	Phantom Encounters (Mysteries of the Unknown)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Are Ghosts Projected Visions?	Another great from Time-Life series &quot;Mysteries of the Unknown.&quot; The book 'Phantom Encounters' deals largely with ghosts, apparitions, and the scientific research that went into the verification of these entities. While science largely ignores this kind of psychic activity, many prominent scholars went on to explore the realms of ghosts and what might cause them to exist. Giving many accounts of various experiences of people, Phantom Encounters states in objective, journalistic-like manner, how ghosts may be messengers of the unconscious. Yet, without adhering to this belief, the book questions why some apparitions visit some, and not others. Why some ghosts are not pertinent to the percievers life, but to someone close by. Much food for thought, why also being entertaining as well as a great resource book.	2002-01-23
US	50971011	R1Q8XZBJ1CV72Z	0233961453	672468160	There's Always Another Windmill	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun and Funny Ogden Nash	Another series of classic Nashisms that give a hearty bellow from the gut from the surprise word-play that makes Ogden's work such a treasure. 'There's Always Another Windmill' is a collection of poems printed in 1972 (originally 1969) from Penguin Publishers, divided into two parts: Songs of Innocence and How Pleasant to Ape Mr Lear. The first a remark upon Blake, while the other Edward Lear as the has been many comparisons between the two. This being the third book of Nash's poetry I have read, and I have never been let down by anything he has written. Unfortunately this book is out of print, howevever, what is left in print is worth getting. Highly reccomended.	2002-01-23
US	50971011	R2IT6E9WR2H6ZF	0465054684	967940175	For God, Country, and Coca-Cola	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The &quot;Definitive&quot; History	Coca-Cola, the great American soft drink that suggested to millions of Americans, &quot;have a coke and a smile.&quot; Perhaps reading this well documented history of the company, you may not be smiling about Coke, but rather that this book is such a good read that its difficult to put down.<br />Businesss journalist Mark Pedergast writes an objective account of Coca-Cola's history from its inception to mass production to symbol of American purity, with the attitude of de-mythologising some of the stories the company has sold to the public. I found the writing not only to be clear and concise, but remarkably well told considering all of the footnotes, appendices, and citations that Mr. Pendergast has accumulated to tell his tale. While the myths that Coca-Cola was developed by some poor root doctor in some chemical accident and that Coke never had cocaine in it are dispelled not to illuminate the company as a sham or to be looked down upon, but with integrity for the achievments of the company, yet, at the same time, not ignoring Coke's influence on American way of life and the individual psyche (making for it, in actuality, a better history than Coke dreamed of). Certainly, the myths that the company purports seem to be as nice as Haddon Sundblom's Santa Clause paintings where, everyday is Christmas, America is pure, and stories are taken out of history and placed in a Neverland of happy endings. Mr. Pendergast does a wonderful job of placing Coca-Cola back into American history writing how a company, such as Coca-Cola, did not arise to power by accident or love by the American people, but by greed, shrewd marketing, and religious fervor for their product.<br />Unless one is not interested in knowing about such histories as this, or any other commercial empire, then there is no doubt one will enjoy this book thoroughly. One point I will make on this book is its title. This edition being the second titled, &quot;For God, Country and Coca-Cola: Second Edition: Revised and Expanded: The Definitive History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It.&quot; For those that are fortunate enough to buy the first edition, one will speculate and wonder about the radical and decisive change in the title. The original title reads: &quot;For God, Country and Coca-Cola: The Unauthorized History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It.&quot; Moving from &quot;Unauthorized&quot; to &quot;Definitive&quot; made me wonder why Coke changed their attitude about their own myths to the historically accurate. Perhaps this book makes that reality hard to argue.ed and Expanded: The Definitive History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It.&quot; For those that are fortunate enough to buy the first edition, one will speculate and wonder about the radical and decisive change in the title. The original title reads: &quot;For God, Country and Coca-Cola: The Unauthorized History of the Great American Soft Drink and the Company That Makes It.&quot; Moving from &quot;Unauthorized&quot; to &quot;Definitive&quot; made me wonder why Coke changed their attitude about their own myths to the historically accurate. Perhaps this book makes that reality hard to argue.	2002-01-17
US	50971011	R1GL0VWWNWT275	1561840602	847153149	Tantra Without Tears	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Tantra Sans Tantra	Hyatt and Black do not describe, or tell what Tantra &quot;is&quot;. For it is not anything you could touch or see as external from ourselves. According to the authors, who display their own experiences during their practices begin to teach you, not what it is, but rather the lifestyle one lives. Like all the mystical arts, it has less to do with dogma than ritual. The doing is more important than the rules. So, when one attempts Tantra, its a breaking of old patterns and realities and forming new ones. As the author says, if it scares you, then good! It will move you out of the familiar and the old and into the new and unknown. So if you think you know what Tantra is, then think again.	2001-11-19
US	50971011	R1GVJ86610DJG6	0877286558	45852482	The Alchemists Handbook: Manual for Practical Laboratory Alchemy	Books	4	53	56	N	N	Great Work!	A how-to book of Alchemy seems unheard of, but here it is! Written by Frater Albertus in the 60's, director of the (now closed down as of 1984) Paracelsus Research Society. The book acts as an introduction to the world of Alchemy, describing its process as well as the symbols employed in Alchemical nomenclature. While it may take a couple of readings to really and truly grasp it, the real learning takes place in the laboratory. Frater Albertus is clear in his meaning and attemts not to confuse the reading by falling to far into the mystical language of the alchemists. The only drawback that I personally had with this book is the M.S. of the &quot;Wisdom of the Sages&quot; installed after Albertus' own writings. The M.S. was written in 1777 written in Latin and German (here translated for you). The content is fine and dandy, however, if I wanted to read an alchemical text, I would not have bought this book to do so. There are plenty of ancient and medieval alchemical texts in print now where I can easily pick one up, however, this book's intention was to learn the art and practice of alchemy in its clearest unobtrusive language. Furthermore, the book is a little more than 100 pages, while the M.S. covers 40 of those pages - almost half the book. So this was disappointing when I wanted to read more of what Frater Albertus had to say. So if you are interested in Alchemy and want a glimmer of light into its practice, I highly reccomend this book, save the last portion of it.	2001-10-05
US	50971011	R1VRC6K0ELQCNG	0385501560	729613164	Choke	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Look Into Madness	See Schizophrenia. See Dementia. See Hysteria. Chuck Palahniuk's newest novel &quot;Choke&quot; amusing look at a medical quack who sees the world as disintegrated and segmented, therefore needs to be analyzed like any biological disease. From here a treatment can be puesued. Yet, like the main character, Victor, his own needs are seemingly never met, as they stem from, like any good Oedipal Complex, the mother. It is the mother that holds the secret. The secret not only to his past, but also to his own psychological past that keeps interupting his sexual and social gratifications. Palahniuk has written a compelling story with a clever and witty style, one that is modern and fresh. See Fight Club. See Survivor. See Invisible Monsters. I highly reccomend this book for anyone interested into experiential insights to madness of the spiritual kind, as well as prose that has a flair for the darker side of comedy.	2001-10-05
US	50971011	R1IFRXS78OQMK6	1561840076	303720680	Eight Lectures on Yoga	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	The Eight Limbs by Crowley	In Magick Book 4, Crowley gives a clear and concise commentary on the eight limbs of Raja Yoga. Here, Crowley delivers the message in lecture form (via the printed page)in his own style. Broken into two sections, Yoga for Yahoos and Yoga for Yellowbelly's, the first covering the first 4 steps (yama, niyama, asana and pranayama), while the latter exploring the altered states of pratyahara, dhyana, dharana, and samadhi. But these later chapters are not without Crowley's own interpretation through the Tree of Life and the Kabbalah. While he may expound seemingly on the latest trends in physics and mathematical formulas of the tetragrammaton, it might be well to keep in mind the states of the higher phases of yoga as they cannot be laid out in a clear objective language. This is the same reason mythology is told in a fantasy-like manner, because it is only understood in metaphorical language. Not to mention, if it was told in out everyday vernacular, it would lose its meaning as well as effect.	2001-10-05
US	50971011	R2PQNU1K056A57	0965694852	451794091	In His Image: Book One of The Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	4	16	23	N	N	An Intriguing Speculation of World End Times	Seemingly prophetic stories of &quot;biblical&quot; proportions are trendy in the science fiction genre. With the 'Left Behind' series far ahead of many of them, you would hope people are reading these books for entertainment value and not &quot;biblical&quot; fact. One more to add is James BeauSeigneur's trilogy &quot;The Christ Clone Trilogy&quot;, with the first one here, 'In His Image'. The Story of the Shroud of Turin and the possibility that its either of Jesus, the one we know from Nazareth some 2000 years ago, or of a Knights Templar a little later in time. According to the carbon 14 dating, the Shroud enters a later period than that of Jesus Christ. But the snag here is there is some blood, a small minute drop that appears to be still living. So who's blood is it? A scientist decides to find out for himself and make a clone of the blood, and thus you have the beginnings of our story. Christopher is the product of that blood (Christ - Christopher). BeauSeigneur was a former intelligence analyst technical manuals for the military, and decided to take a swing at writing fiction. His background is fitting for the worldly affairs that take place within the political arena, however, his spiritual verse needs some discipline. While the story moves quite rapidly (time jumps in decades at a chapter), his writing does not have any life in it. Especially in the beginning of the novel which might read like some of his technical military manuals, referring to the Bible on end, DNA authorities like Francis Crick, along with the literature written on the Shroud of Turin. As the story moves past the &quot;historically&quot; accurate (speculatively interesting), and takes place in the possible future, our humble writer loses his grip on technicalities and focuses on the aim of the story. There is a lot of political jargon, so it may help to be familiar with world politics. I felt the characters were drawn two-dimensional, and the dialogue overall was flat. The book stands at 4 stars because of its informative and speculative factor as well as the main thrust of the story which is one of the better end-time stories I have come across. I look forward to reading the following sequels.t 4 stars because of its informative and speculative factor as well as the main thrust of the story which is one of the better end-time stories I have come across. I look forward to reading the following sequels.	2001-10-05
US	50971011	R3VRYBPQCPRVBT	0786862467	990394359	Walt Disney Imagineering: A Behind the Dreams Look at Making the Magic Real	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Well Structured Compendium	The Imagineers, who have been put together by Walt Disney himself from his staff of animators, put their imagination and engineering expertise to work, making their movies in three-dimension. Anyone who visits Disney World, Florida will immediately note that not a detail gets by them where there is no cultural or graphic response to the scenery. All parts are integral, and the Imagineers recognize this. Some of the most wonderful aspects of their work is in the smallest detail, so as not to stand out, instead, it blends into the environment (like it should). The book is set up into parts of the varying departments of the Imagineers, in the stages in which they prepare a project. Like Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas' book 'The Illusion of Life' they do not fail to recognize good work from a particular artist. Even here, in the lesser known trait of architecture and engineering, the names are noted as any famous artist, which is refreshing and respectable for the artists in their own respective fields to be continually influenced by their peers. A wonderful book that is easy to read, does not burden the reader with too much technical jargon, and easy to appreciate the many pictures of their work. Certainly Disney enthusiasts will enjoy this book, as well as a prospective Imagineer.	2001-07-28
US	50971011	R8E0B4OGV4S10	0965653536	649731170	Naked Pictures Of My Ex-Girlfriends	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My Best Friend's Girlfriend	I can remember fist glancing through it amazed at the number of women this man has amassed throughout the decade. Even more so to my amazement was the fact he was able to get all of his women to unclad themselves for his photo-lens. Not an easy task for a novice. At any rate, a great collage of his triumphs and tribulations in the young age of the seventies, how love has effected his art, the times, and women in general. I was sold on the story. I believed it till the last page. Like most romantic mythologies, the story is too good to want to know the truth, or care that another truth exists. Its art, but with a story. That is what I was sold on. Granted looking at naked pictures of women for ten minutes has its own thrill, but what the artist &quot;did&quot; to get these pictures in an eventual scrapbook of his life is wonderful. The book is perfect by itself in purporting all of these erotic adventures did actually occur, and the feelings and thoughts as the years went on with the male attachment to the woman figure seem vivid enough to give us our own recall of lovely women we have shared intimate moments with in the past. Its a tribute to the past. Its a tribute to women.	2001-07-28
US	50971011	R18WWPQUIYKZ3W	0670888192	451569720	Laetitia Casta	Books	4	4	7	N	N	The Lovely Laetitia	If you want to know how much Laetita enjoys modeling, or she feels about her body, or her thoughts on dating, well then you will enjoy this book. While this book tries to present Laetitia as a three-dimensional character by quoting her and her friends, the quotes and write-ups only detract from what the book intends. Its a picture book of Laetitia Casta in all her form and beauty, in mostly every pose you can think of. Some photos are friendly, others seductive, and certainly some where you cant move your eyes from the picture. I am not concerned with how nice a person she may be, or what her agents say about her, I dont even care what she looks for in a boyfriend because thats not why I bought the book. If I wanted that, I surely could pick up any Cosmopolitan and find out anything about her. Or go on the internet. No, I just wanted to look. I wanted to use my eyes and gaze upon her shapely legs, her gorgeous breasts, and her angelic face. Thats what I bought this book for and thats what I did (ok, I did read the by-lines and sound bites, but for what end I am not sure). A good book for anyone who loves to look at a beautiful woman. Better because its Laetitia.	2001-07-28
US	50971011	R4Z57VKVYKGNS	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Personal Emotional Account of the Holocaust	Jewish writer and historian Elie Wisel was cut off from his childhood learning of his faith when the Nazis took him and his family away from home. Wiesel encountered a new home and new world view in which bigotry, theft, murder, and genocide existed. Wiesel's account of his experience while in the concentration camp leaves the reader on the brink of despair, which is where Wiesel had been. But perseverance and love for his father, respect and faith in his people led him away from the camp to the days of freedom only to be left with the tragic memory. That tragedy led to this compelling story of his life. Highly reccomended!!	2001-07-13
US	50971011	ROS4IZ21PBKTQ	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Slightly Better than the Movie	A study in demonic possession is not a popular topic in too many circles, however, it still comes up from time to time in spiritual psychology. Upon doing my own research of what 'exactly' demonic possession is, 'The Exorcist' is certainly a must, no matter how exploited and distorted the matter has become. William Peter Blatty's book 'The Exorcist' stands as a compentent study of demonic possession in modern times told in story format. The crisis of Regan and her spiritual turmoil she will endeavor by the demon known as 'nowonami'. Yes, this is the backwards English she began to speak, however, in light of modern psychology, it is quite revealing about ones internal state as well as the perceptions one has of themself. The book is an easy read, and for the enthusiastic, you will go through it like a flip book. It would be difficult not to comment on the impression the film has made upon America minds, as one reads the book, one can picture so vividly the different scenes from the film. The film captures the book quite well and almost verbatim where the lines even become recognizable. Again, the only aspect of the book that was not captured in the film was the psychological end, which is too bad in some ways because now, for those who dont like to read, are left with a startling image with no 'intellectual reasoning' about what possession truly is (or might be). That is to say, they are left with feelings of 'I hope that does not happen to me', or 'I believe in God, so it wont happen to me', etc, etc. This is not to say the book is any less startling because of the intellectual content, but rather, because there is no definition of possession, the movie watcher is left with the belief that it is all based on supernatural powers of the devil and/or demons. The majority of the studies given within the framework of the story are legitimate and you can look them up in libraries and find them, which made this book so appealing to me. The story is told well, with well-defined and likable characters with some profound dialogue amongst the priests. My own understanding of demonic possession is not one displayed in this book where I felt it was probably over the top (I imagine for dramatic purposes). Nonetheless and great read and informative, I highly reccomend this novel as a great work of fiction in the last thirty years. If you have seen the movie and are willing to endure the cycle again, you will be thrilled you did. The movie, by and large, would be easier to sit through because the imagination is certainly more powerful than anything that can be projected onto a screen.ined and likable characters with some profound dialogue amongst the priests. My own understanding of demonic possession is not one displayed in this book where I felt it was probably over the top (I imagine for dramatic purposes). Nonetheless and great read and informative, I highly reccomend this novel as a great work of fiction in the last thirty years. If you have seen the movie and are willing to endure the cycle again, you will be thrilled you did. The movie, by and large, would be easier to sit through because the imagination is certainly more powerful than anything that can be projected onto a screen.	2001-06-16
US	50971011	R3B9VQM2KOE1L2	0892813806	960241040	Rolfing and Physical Reality	Books	5	39	39	N	N	It's All About the Attitude	&quot;If there is one thing a Rolfer must remember,&quot; says Ida Rolf, &quot;is to keep in mind that Rolfing is based on the theory of gravity.&quot; This is essentially the underpinnings of the attitude the Rolfer should consider when approaching a potential client. This book which is an amalgam of the wit and witticisms of Ida Rolf more or less defines the attitude of the Rolfer, the mind-set in which one is to take as a form of preparation. Rolfing is not a therapy, nor is it out to cure any ailments, disease or otherwise - it is aimed at elevating ones health for maximum mobility. The body is desgined to move, however, there are obstrctions that we are not always entirely aware of. Although gravity is constantly at play with us every day, we do not take into account the effects of gravity on the body. In Ida's understanding, gravity means structure, which also means relationships. Not just relation of the muscles to eachother and to the bones, but the body to the earth, the body with gravity. What is that relationship? The feet has to move along with with earth, to feel the ground, rather than resist or flatten as if it were a land mover itself. Gravity can be worked 'with' rather than against, which is the whole intention of Rolfing. This book is an easy read, however, because it is thought provoking to the person who is interested in Rolfing, you may want to enjoy some of Ida's brilliance and knowledge in her work. 'Rolfing and Physical Reality' is a good companion to her major work 'Rolfing' which explains the anatomical aspects of the body that has been shifted and unset. While the latter works as a presentation for the appreciation and observations for the Rolfer, this book acts as the thread for the Rolfers mind. I reccomend one with the other and should be read in tandem.	2001-06-15
US	50971011	R3FJJNMOGN8AHG	0877286701	784676465	777 And Other Qabalistic Writings of Aleister Crowley: Including Gematria & Sepher Sephiroth	Books	5	141	153	N	Y	The Key to Crowley	After at least a full year of immersing myself into Crowley's magick and occult studies, I continue to find myself coming back to this book. When I first got the book, I tried reading it and to make heads or tails of what I was reading, but to no avail, so I put the book down until a spark of light drew me closer to understanding. I remembered at one point reading in 'The Eye in the Triangle', a biography written by apprentice Israel Regardie, mentioning Crowley's fascination with mystery novels. I am not a big fan of mystery novels, but I decided to take one up (Robert B. Parker's Godwulf Manuscript for the curious), and it struck me at that point that it seemed to make sense that Crowley enjoyed these kinds of books as they are so evident in his own writing. This is the point of view in which I decided to understand Crowley - that is, to understand his work as a mystery waiting to be solved. You are the detective and you must put the pieces together. All the information is in front of you, but you must understand, interpret, infer, and join various bits of information to gain the whole picture. 777 and Other Qabalistic Writings is just that - a string of puzzle pieces that are shaken up in the box, and its up to you to put the work into it to make the connection. Crowley is not one for spoonfeeding information and this book certainly demonstrates this by having to understand numbers, symbolically and mathematically - how they relate to the Hebrew and Greek alephbet, tree of life, Chinese and Indian philosophy, and the universe: micro and macrocosm, and of course algebraic and trigonomic formulations. With this information that is put into a uniform system of systems. A good rule of thumb to keep in mind when studying (vs. reading), is that every sentence counts. Each line, number, column, diagonal, and row all have a correspondence to each other to make a relationship that, as the Gestalts would say, is &quot;greater than the sum of its parts.&quot; While this work is not for the beginner, and difficult for any novice, it is certainly a must for anyone who wants to dig a little deeper than love potions and money spells. If you can master the work in this book to the point where it is second nature, then Crowley's other works will illuminate itself freely to the trained mind. Crowley's writing is for those who want to &quot;do the work&quot; and not for the lazy person's guide to enlightenment. 777 stands as Crowley's testimony to his mastery over the subject as well as his versatility with understanding the nature of language and how it can be expressed; i.e. compressed information. I suggest to book cautiously to only those who are willing to take the task and set themselves on a journey into another world.k is not for the beginner, and difficult for any novice, it is certainly a must for anyone who wants to dig a little deeper than love potions and money spells. If you can master the work in this book to the point where it is second nature, then Crowley's other works will illuminate itself freely to the trained mind. Crowley's writing is for those who want to &quot;do the work&quot; and not for the lazy person's guide to enlightenment. 777 stands as Crowley's testimony to his mastery over the subject as well as his versatility with understanding the nature of language and how it can be expressed; i.e. compressed information. I suggest to book cautiously to only those who are willing to take the task and set themselves on a journey into another world.	2001-06-11
US	50971011	R1X69HJXXFEPW4	0941404900	254338871	Modern Shaman's Guide to a Pregnant Universe	Books	5	9	16	N	N	You Are Your Own Doing	Are you ready to give birth? I bet you did not even know you were in labor. Well, its time to wake up and take the test. What test you ask? The Bi-Polar Brain Test of course. Its not hard, and you cant fail either (or pass for that matter). Its a skill monitor and change and alter perceptions as you read on. What you will learn, and what I found most ingenius, is that you and I and everyone in the world are chemistry kits. We have built in pharmacies! Why go out and buy alcohol when we can produce it ourselves? Why pay lots of money for acid when your brain is primed for such a state of existence! It wants it! And so do you!! And Christopher Hyatt and Antero Alli are just the tour guides to get you to that state of consciousness. In a fun picture filled fashion reminescent of Timothy Leary and Robert Anton Wilson with Alli and Hyatts own worldly wise witticisms that one can adore so easily. A book to run out and get at your local drugstore. Hurry,, before they sell out! Oh..I am sorry, they obviously did sell out since this book is now out of print. Well, seemingly like a lot of good books they are forgotten and the presses are held up until further notice. Check your usedbook.com store or one in your hometown, see if they got it. If they do, get it. And even more so, get Antero Alli's Akashic Record Player which is a precursor to this marvelous book!! Love It!	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R276ZLAI86U5EC	0140127224	337605310	On Directing Film	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A Short and Pleasing Account by Famed Screenwriter	Of course the question begs, why is David Mamet teaching us how to direct? In one instance, aside from the films he has directed, his expertise and notariety is in writing the script or even the play for the theater. On the other hand, when a good writer has control of his craft, it will be written well enough for any director who takes the script and turn out similar products (either to each other, or even to the script writers vision). Yet, Mamet discloses himself as a competent teacher and director. Its a short book, but there is some good practical information that is discussed, and with student dialogue Q&amp;A to give a sort of &quot;interactive understanding&quot; of how to write and direct a film. On the other hand, Mamet is dogmatic about his approach to the craft and the student answers are all wrong unless answered, not only correct, but the way he wants you to answer them, that is, what he knows to be correct. The dilemma I personally have with all books about writing or directing is they are from a single perspective and allow very little intuition or personal style to interfere. This book is, for the most part, no exception when one has to meet Mamet's standards for what is right or wrong. Given the fact that it works for David, it does not mean it will work for everyone. The trick is to take it all with a grain of salt and skim it off the top. Take what appeals to you and what feels good and what can be applicable to your writing. Its a short book that is clear and concise which is based on lectures given at Columbia University. One of the better books on the subject, so if you feel you need a little more study before you write, I would reccomend this one (although not before Lajos Egris book Art of Dramatic Writing).	2000-11-22
US	50971011	RO8S2MFDDUKVW	044020352X	200782155	Anguished English: An Anthology of Accidental Assaults upon Our Language	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hilarious and Fun!	Without a doubt if you were to pick up this book, it would definately be for the chapter of the History According to Student Bloopers. Some of the funniest bits of comedy you will come across in a long time. Who could forget such non-sensical thinking from students such as &quot;Handel was half German, half Italian, and half English.&quot; Or &quot;Beethoven expired in 1827 and later died for this.&quot; Just a great read and even funnier when read out loud to a few of your friends. Aside, there is the popular court case transcriptions of stupid lawyers who are too busy analyzing words and not realizing their lack of common sense. There are other funny, funny chapters that will have you rolling. Its actually tough to read in one sitting because you will be too busy laughing (and the author advises you should not read it all at once). A classic in the degradation of the English language and one you will read over and over with a chuckle every time!	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R2CPPN12VTYHA1	051752760X	882276676	The Center of the Cyclone: An Autobiography of Inner Space	Books	5	17	18	N	N	This Stuff is Pure Sandoz!!	An autobiography of Inner Space is indeed what is happening here. Dolphin researcher turned consciousness explorer reaches heights that Timothy Leary so much admired about him. The book journeys from his youth to his research days at the dolphin labs and his scientific and personal discoveries and relays them to the reader in such humbleness that one cant help but to empathize and rejoice in his discoveries. Once his dolphin research was abolished, he took it upon himself to turn to neurology and neurological drugs, i.e. LSD-25, or as they called it &quot;Pure Sandoz.&quot; It is here where his naieve approach to drugs really comes out in his writing, as he was not afraid of them, but also had never tried them (LSD in particular). Lilly read everrything he could on LSD before trying it (study before trial, similar to magic and all forms of initiation. Today with psychedelic drugs illegalized almost everywhere in the world (a conspiracy if you ask me), Lilly never condones this method (drugs) to attain self knowledge. Lilly in his deep moments of self reflection and depression understood that it could be achieved through other means without drugs. From here, is where he finalizes his journey. A marvelous book, unfortunately now its out of print, however, if you should find a copy, it would be worth your while to pick it up. I am also assuming you are somewhat familiar with John Lilly, either through Professor Leary or Robert Anton Wilson, in which it will not be a waste of a purchase.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R2MGOPV2H7186P	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Wonderful Surprise!	This book was given to me as a gift, and I was a bit hesitant to read it as I am not a huge fan of fantasy type books. Once I began reading, my own pessimism at first was shining which I had critiqued in my own head the writing, which was nothing incredible, and some of the dialogue was hokey, while the characters were less than intriguing. But as I read on I began to gain sense of what the book was there for. Its not going to sit amongst James Joyces Ulysses so why critique it like it would? I began to enjoy it. It was all about the action of the characters and the magic within that I found marvelous! In fact, the ritual in which Elric does to conjure the Chaos Lord was fairly accurate, and the response and states of consciousness that were described were well on the mark. I just found this book to be great right to the end! I dont know who I could suggest this book to besides sci-fi fans who probably already know about it, but it sits among one of my own personal favorites.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	RY2B0MTZY1060	0486201627	464873030	The Book of Signs (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Graphic Historical Reference Book	Rudolph Kock, graphic designer, typesetter and bookbinder put together these some 400+ signs along with a good historical capsule along each symbol. I found it to be useful when looking up a symbol and to understand some aspect of the sign, although not entirely in full, but a brief understanding of its roots. While not every sign of occultism is assimulated in this book, there is still plenty for one to be satisfied with. Most of the signs are from Early Christian traditions and those that have stemmed from that religion. Orginally these designs were woodcuts by Frik Kredel, Offenbach and Main. The font used to print in the book was created by Koch himself known as magere deutsche type. Originally published in 1930, this Dover edition is worth every penny, for the artist and the occultist.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R1KV9K2GHVZXIS	0802703631	938571618	The Sensuous Dirty Old Man	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Oh, Look Out Ladies!!	I picked this book at a used book store on a whim because of its quirky title and even more amusing was the authors name who was attached to it. Something was not right, so I was curious to check it out. I began reading (like all my books) and soon discovered the hilarity and wit that Dr. Issac Asimov can convey. From what I understand from talking to some films is that Dr. A was indeed a Drity Old Man. The book is a guide book for the young and old alike, the male and female (but mostly male). It acts as a handbook for the pickup artist. To ogle at women with a smile. To take your hand off her knee if she asks, and to put it on her thigh. Clever and indeed insightful, even if its all tongue-in-cheek. Dr. A., and his photographic memory of quoting some wacky moments of history past is just perfect for the confidence level that one places when seeing a hot broad strutting down the street. Afterall, if she is showing cleavage, should not men look at it? What else should we do? As it states: &quot;Don't peep at girls - STARE!&quot; Other anecdotes to those who are inferier to approaching good looking women are those with morals. &quot;Many regard the matter of mammary display as a frontal attack on our standards morality. Sometimes, I tend to agree with them. Many is the occasion on which I have looked down on low-cut dresses.&quot; Dr. A's historical satire is wonderful, as mentioned earlier, is not just a remark on the confidence level one should have, that a man who peeps, leers, looks or smiles in the direction of a female, but also a gesture to the woman that your confidence equals that of the female who is looked upon. Dr. A. says &quot;[Joe] Green, having emigrated to Italy, adopted the Italian version of his name, Giuseppe Verdi. For reasons known only to opera buffs, the Italian name is actually better known today than the name he was born with in Pughkeepsie, New York.&quot; Verdi was a Dirty Old Man. And Vice-President Charles Curtis was a Dirty Old Man. Oliver Wendell Holmes was not. Asimov fans may not appreciate this book as much as his science-fiction or works of non-fiction, however, those who are looking for a genuine laugh, and those who love literature would surely find this little book a gem. Unfortunately, now it is out of print, and unless you want to pay heavily for first prints, a paperback would suit the purpose.ver Wendell Holmes was not. Asimov fans may not appreciate this book as much as his science-fiction or works of non-fiction, however, those who are looking for a genuine laugh, and those who love literature would surely find this little book a gem. Unfortunately, now it is out of print, and unless you want to pay heavily for first prints, a paperback would suit the purpose.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R2L49QVS382KBJ	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	The Classic Science Fiction	One of the most famous science fiction books to date is H. G. Wells' classic War of the Worlds, which has become national paranoia in the late 30's with Orson Welles over the radio. And later in the 50's become a national hit with the movie goers. Well, neither the radio broadcast or movie rendition really took the book to its letter by letter copy, but rather improvised like most non-literal entertainers. The book begins with suspicion, suspense and wonder as a meteor passes the sky without any real notice to anyone. While the book is told in the perspective of the scientist (whose name I cant seem to recall at the moment), later, somewhere after the mid-point the gears switch and we learn what the scientists brother is doing elsewhere. For the majority of the book, once the aliens have control over the earth, which is within the first 4 chapters, things calm down and become a bit stale. Only after we come back to the scientist from the brothers story, things pick up, but mind you, they pick up slowly. I am happy I got the chance to read this book, but was a little dissapointed in how the story unfolded which is why I gave this book 4 stars. Nonetheless, certainly a required reading for science fiction fans, and even now, amongst those persuing literature.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	RPHNT3BDX85XO	039471539X	838042579	NUCLEAR POWER FOR BEGINNERS (A Pantheon documentary comic book)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Bit More Than Beginners	Originally published under the title 'Anti-Nuclear Handbook' by Pantheon Books, this book is set out to raise awareness to the issue of nuclear power as it posed a threat in the eighties (and most likely today as well). While it begins quite simply explaining how nuclear power came about with the advent of Oppenheimer and the atomic bomb in which it was used in WW2, from then on it was harnassed as a tool. It seems to have caused more destruction and problems than the bomb itself has manifested. At this point in the book, it seems to trail into political stances and other world problems. The author Stephen Croall is also the author of 'Ecology for Beginners,' which is evident that the author is somewhat self righteous in his own stance, regardless of his points. The book eventually becomes bogged down with too much information that it transcends comic book beginners status and into intermediary positions. So in essence, it was not an altogether enjoyable read. While I dont know much about nuclear power in general, I would imagine this being an ideal place to begin as I would guess its a thorough and tough subject to ascertain comfortably.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R2M013DT2VU1S1	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fuzzy Logic	Weird, weird, weird. But I liked it! Its not a jolting weird or an uncomfortable weird, rather a soothing, almost psychedelic weird that places you softly on the couch and let things roll over your brain. At first read thats what it will do, roll over your brain while you try to put the pieces together. For a large portion of it, the oddities of the characters and bizarre humor took me by surprise and in delight of what may happen next. At one point I am on the edge of my seat and other moments I am reclined not sure if want to find out. The few bits which ring out presently are some of the humerous touches that Thomas Pynchon creates. Its like a  subtle stylized humor (yet realistice in one manner), and one I have not come across in any other book; a scene that can be so vivid in my mind, yet the writing simultaneously elusive and seemingly vague. I am happy to mention and conclude that the title of the book is well explained in such a way that I found it profound. I picked up this book because of a suggestion by R.A. Wilson, which seemed intriguing, and also the length was more tangible than his milestone Gravity's Rainbow. I figure this might be a good book to start before I embark on such a mission to determine if I even want to tackle it. Nonetheless, the Crying Lot of 49 remains an enigma in my mind that is something that deserves to be read again to clear up the fuzzy spots. Reccomended for those curious about Pynchon without the weight of pages to sweat over. Also reccomended to those who are interested in conspiracy theories and the like.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R31EOGSCYDHEU6	0140184643	723412855	Tarzan of the Apes (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	More than Fantasy	Edgar Rice Burroughs, now catalogued as a classic writer actually became instantly famous before this book with his Princess of Mars book published in 1912, while this book later in 1914. The story of a lost boy in the jungles of Africa where the parents are mauled and killed by Apes, and likewise, the son taken up and raised as one. If you are familiar either with the new Disney rendition or the Hollywood Johnny Weissemuller versions, then you just have not met Tarzan, Lord Greystoke. Both Hollywood and Disney do an injustice, not only to Burroughs, but also to the story and the writing. Embarking on this book, I expected a quick fun, high adventure story that gets to the point without finesse or care of the medium. But E. R. Burroughs gives you all the excitement with the careful delivery of choice words to put you there. There is a lot more emotion centered around this book than one may expect from a jungle adventure. Subtle, but poignant are his words and a visual clarity of the personalities and action make this a worthwhile read, and certainly a classic that can stand next to many other verbosely exaggerated popular classics (I am not mentioning Dickens).	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R3J3B8F41LLGNA	0394748727	970708331	ECOLOGY FOR BEGINNERS (A Pantheon documentary comic book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Intro!	Author of Nuclear Power for Beginners, Stephen Croall makes this palatable introduction to the eco-system enjoyable, entertaining and easy to grasp for anyone. It also makes many fine remarks on our food industry and health in general where ones awareness is raised to the level of conscious living. While his reference seems to rely mainly on Ivan Illich's works (Tools for Conviviality), it does express its own interests that the Earth is a living system an co-dependent no us and other creatures that inhabit this planet. Although out of print, for the beginner it may be worth searching for if they are curious about the subject. Otherwise, for those that do enjoy the Beginners series, then this one is right on!	2000-11-22
US	50971011	RNCKISZ7ZDZ85	0880102551	690483634	The Four Temperaments: Lecture Given in Berlin on March 4, 1909	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Slim Information	A lecture that must have lasted a half hour, Rudolph Steiner's words on the Four Temperments are shallow and missing the mark due to lack of information. While I cannot really say too much about Steiner and his philosophy because I have not read anything besides this short pamphlet-like writing. For 1909, he may have understood some things of early psychology and possibly even read Freud, James and Watson, for there is definately a psychological slant to the teachings. Steiner whose majority of his work deals in occult studies does reach the limits of psychology into occultism, but not to an extreme degree. He makes some logical conclusions here and there, but not enough to add up to anything really pertinent or solidifying an idea. He reads almost like an astrology chart where one is sanguine, this or that is likely of your character. I am still skeptical on astrology, so this did not sit well with me. While Steiners work is reverred by many, I cant say this book would purport me to buy another of his book any time soon.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R1O4YHZ28DCW1S	0863160069	873185610	Medicine for Beginners (A Writers & Readers documentary comic book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cynical, but Informative	Medicine for Beginners is a historical approach rather than an aesthetic approach. It covers from whence medicine was for the shamans and healers and witch doctors. Soon, it became a practice and then a teaching and schooling. The author, although not cynical of the medicine itself, has some animosity against the trade which has become a biollion dollar a year business. Doctors has made it difficult to become a doctor (to raise prices) and insurance (to treat the rich). Since then, medicine has been really geared for those that do have money, and everyone else to pay the rest of their lives in fees (somewhat similar to the IRS and credit corps. do). Nonetheless it was a fun and easy book to read, one should not have any trouble tackling this book within a day. Out of print, it may serve as a good reference book to anyone who is reseaching medical history, but it may be somewhat out of the way as its not at the fingertips of everyone.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	RA5C3U7X62AIY	0679725091	931238648	Freud for Beginners	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Sometimes a Book is just a Book	This book is just a book, but a better book than its successor of the same title by Richard Osborne. Mostly because it does not hang onto the relationship between Jung and Freud as long and focuses more on the theories of Freud. In fact, what I really enjoyed about this book is that gave a good round about summary of most of Freuds theories inside each book. Certainly acts a good stepping stone for those who need to know Freud in a hurry and wants the gist of his work. Richard Appignanesi displays good understanding of Freuds work and summarizes it well and concise. Reccomended for the prodigal psychologist.	2000-11-22
US	50971011	R36F8UVHEUFHCP	0805062998	516857219	The Number Devil: A Mathematical Adventure	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Just One-derful!	Is there a devil on your back thats been hounding you to learn those numbers? Well, there is an easier way to learn and understand numbers. With Haans Enzensberger's childrens book The number Devil, its not only fun, but  makes it all look easy. Sometimes it is, other times it can be  overwhelming. The number devil is a story that takes place in dreamland  where a child, who hates math and numbers finds out how numbers are  essential  to the world we live in. He also finds out that numbers are easy  to understand, so long as we take the time to understaand them. Each  chapter attempts to study a number. Starting with 0 and 1, then moving to  others from 2 on up. Every number is a pattern and creates more patterns.  Its a matter of seeing the patter that clears up the muddle of large  numbers. I found this book easy to read and fun and educational. Highly  reccomended!	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R2W288QMVL3HLS	0671727893	180072208	Pocket Book of Ogden Nash	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	A Genius of Comic Poetry	Often unheard of poet, Ogden Nash, serves as a reminder that poetry itself does not need to be mushy, polite or romantic. Or for that matter psychological, philisophical or religious. Nash's poetry, written from the  early 20's to the late 50's is remark on the social niceties. A critique of  the love-hate relationship of men and women. A funny peek into the lives of  animals. And silly stories for the sake of being silly. The uniqueness in  Nash's work is not the poetry itself, but his play with words. Its clear he  does not take language seriously at all which allows him to mix and  maneuver words to create new ones that will create a genuine laugh. Such  as: &quot;Well I  have learned that life  is something about which you  can't conclude anything except that it is full of vicissitudes. And when  you expect logic you only come across eccentricitudes.&quot; The other  aspect of Nash's writing is his outlaw verse where, although things rhyme,  the rythm is thown askew.<br />&quot;I know that a year has rolled around  once more<br />When I find myself thumbing a crisp new cigarette lighter just  like the coven of other cigarette lighters strewn on a shelf in the garage  along with the broken tire chains and the license plates for 1934.&quot;<br />Nash's work was surely ahead of its time and I am dleighted to have come  across such remarkable work. I highly reccomend this, not just to poetry  lovers, but also to those that appreciate language and humor.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R6C82R64T6PJ1	1582340617	219698478	Toolbox	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Prose in a Box	A graphic prop book told in a prosaic vernacular of the household mechanic. 12 essays dedicated to everyday common kitchen or workbench items that brings to life the unseen or the not want to be seen. Author Morabito  tells it like it is and metamorphosizes the rag into a vampiresque  dependency that not just sucks, but cleans everything it touches. The knife  is moved from a utensil that cuts into an imbecilic cold-hearted mystic who  only moves forward without looking back and has only one pointed  concentration. Each page is designed with a graphic remeniscent of medieval  torture devices by Mexican graphic designer Bernardo Recaimer. As a package  this book looks too enticing not to turn away, however, once one is  embarked on the kitchentop journey of fancy articles into the linguistic  world of poetic merchandise, one is not all that excited anymore. This book  serves more as a fantasy world of Alice in the Toolshed rather than any  real commentary on our kitchendary needs. After reading the first half of  the selections, you will get the sense of where the author is headed (which  many times the author seems to have a spontaneous direction in his  writing). By the sixth essay, you will get the point very clearly that life  in the kitchen happens when you are not there (or least not paying  attention), which, unfortunately, the essays become somewhat repetitious  thereafter. The four stars indoctrinated of this book is due to its  entirely uniquness of the subject and a valid attempt at what could have  been something remarkable.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R26FQIQ05ESE7A	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	5	75	80	N	N	The Best Science Fiction Novel	Even 49 years after its initial publication, The Demolished Man still stands as a true science fiction novel. The story of Ben Reich living in a future world where mind reading is a commonality amongst a group known as  'Espers.' In a world without crime, for one can know when you will commit  one, how is one to go about plotting a murder? Ben Reich has the perfect  plan. This book captivated me from beginning to end when I read it 10 years  ago and I continually reccomend it to those that enjoy science fiction.  Author, Alfred Bester, won the first Hugo Award for Science Fiction for The  Demolished Man. In my opinion this book is still the hallmark of science  fiction novels, unfortunately, however, Bester himself is so unheard of in  many literary circles and more so in the general public. I highly  reccomnend this book for anyone who has a flare for science fiction.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R1R5YWR6FXEWCZ	1881649644	485266825	Everything I Know I Learned at the Movies: A Compilation of Cliche's and Un-Truisms Gleaned from a Lifetime Spent Entirely Too Much in the Dark	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Humerous Peer Into Movie Reality	&quot;No problem is so big that it can't be solved in 12 reels (or less)&quot;. This is a typical statement that one reads in large font opposite of a movie still that complements it. This book is funny and will  make you laugh and maybe even says &quot;Huh! Thats true!&quot;, or  &quot;Oh yeah!&quot; The book is not really a read, so to speak, but a  gander across some 200 pages which will take minutes to complete. The title  itself is a play on Robert Fulghum's (forever parodied) popular self-help  book &quot;Everything I Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten&quot;. Not  something I would go out of my way for, however it has some insight into  the world of movies and how there are some things that typify the cinematic  lifestyle.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R2NC71O884FE41	0140450130	976561271	Androcles and the Lion: An Old Fable Renovated (Shaw Library)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	The Folly of Martydom	To prick a thorn out of a lion's foot one will surely gain new friends and old enemies. The story of Androcles, a Christian who is about to be sent to the lions for being a heretic in the Roman Empire. A cynical, humerous,  poignant, and hypocritical story of religion versus humanism. The book is  intended with the introduction with Shaw's discourse on Jesus and  Christianity. Although I found it dryly written, which some wit involved,  he makes some good remarks on the problems of Christianity. Mainly is the  devout in which they will surely go to the lions before giving up their  gods. Hypocritically the Romans could care less who their gods were or  whether they believed in them, so long it was not a Christian god. The  introduction acts as a set-up to put one in the mind set of Shaw and to  understand his point of view which makes the play that much easier to  understand and funnier to read. The play itself is a wonderful entry into  the classics of the thearter.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	RA4QESERSGE32	0893143928	662915661	Dream Symbolism	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Not Your Typical Dream Book	Originally published under the title Studies in Dream Symbolism, this book does not reveal anything new under sun of the dream world. Freemason and philosopher Manly P. Hall gives his take, although unique, view on the  symbols of dreams. The book discusses the ancient oracles, and past  dreamers of ancient Greece and Biblical tales of the psyche. There is no  reference of Freud or Jung here, or even other major contributors of  dreaming, however, Hall does take a logical approach to understanding your  dreams. Its not written in a step by step process, or a how-to guide. Its  completely informative. Basically, after one writes their dreams down for  dissection, they will take something from their dream and make  associations. A rabbit, for instance is fast and it hops. Its small with  big ears. These are typical traits of a rabbit, so one may presume that  those traits are within yourself, or how you view the world. Hall's writing  style, in this book, unlike others I found messy and unorganized. I was  unsure of what some of his ideas were as they were not always clear.  Although I like Halls work, this was, thus far, my least favorite. I gave  it three stars for his approach to dream symbolism and I personally agree  that the route to understanding your dreams described here is a credible  one.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R3GX9XSEU6S173	0679725415	677569812	Transparent Things	Books	5	3	15	N	N	A Lucid Tale of Memory	Hugh Person, an editor for a book publisher, lost in love. But there are things that remind him. Yes, many things. Nabokov's prose and relationships of present and past is wonderful to read. His words skim like a rock over  the water which creates an emotional gestalt. Like all of Nabokov's novels,  his characters are uniquely naieve, obsessive and guilty; which you just  have to love. This book runs at 120 pages, and is one of his earlier works.  I would reccomend this to those that already enjoy Nabokov and his words of  wonder.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R2423DAAS8739M	0062504681	910949546	The Passionate Life: Stages of Loving	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Live the Passionate Life	Psycholigst and philosopher Sam Keen explores the inner depths and growth of the human consciousness and observes how we grow to love, grow to hate, or grow to become passionate about life. The book is set up where each  chapter is a stage in a persons life. Where they get stuck or caught, how  to grow, and the problems that arise out of each stage. Keen not only lets  you explore your life, but gives his own as a testiment the problems anyone  can have. From death, to seperation to rebirth. Told from a mythological  point of view thanks to his good friend Joseph Campbell, Keen defines myth  as &quot;the system of basic metaphors, images, and stories that in-forms  the perceptions, memories, and aspirations of a people; provides the  rationale for its institutions, rituals, and power structures; and gives a  map of the purpose and stages of life.&quot; This defintion is the epitomy  of the entire book which also follows its own rules. What I found most  influential about this book is it allowed me to examine my own life, the  loves I have gaines and lost, where I have gone on my own personal journey,  and who I took with me, and who I want to take with me. There are many  moments which I was dumbfounded by a stroke of inspiration and  enlightenment. Other times I was upset and depressed by the hard truths and  realities of our world. But by the end of the book, whether I was happy or  mad, I knew that my thinking had changed and allowed me to be more  sensitive to others as well as myself. As a human being, there is the  obligation that we must pay to enter into society and be with other fellow  human beings. To co-operate with eachother, to inspire, guide, help, and  trust others, companion or stranger. The passionate life is not one full of  lust and sex - no, that is far from the truth. It is one who lives every  moment full of breath. One who sees the mundane as divine. To experience  the sensorium of our bodies. Sam Keen has done a remarkable job hitting the  nail on the head seemingly every time. This book, written back in 1982 and  revised in 1993 seems more relevant today than it did at the time he wrote  it.ail on the head seemingly every time. This book, written back in 1982 and  revised in 1993 seems more relevant today than it did at the time he wrote  it.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R30VV71R1R164T	0714530042	617838638	My Mother, Madame Edwarda and The Dead Man	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Destruction and Hedonism	Sometimes erotic, other time incestial, and more times than not this book is shocking and curious. The narratives of a boy, Pierre, and his minglings with his mothers reckless lifestyle. The book is a study of a mothers  destruction after she was raped at a young age. It is also a study of the  contradictions of the hedonic world how it creates problems and destroys  rather than forgets. Its not always a passive life. Pierre learns about  this and we see how it hampers his psyche into being passivle controlled,  not just by mother, but by women in general. The lack of the father figure,  and the hatred towards him allowed him to feel worthless. The second and  third story, Madame Edwards and Dead Man are shorter variations on the same  theme. A different type of storytelling than I am used to reading,  nonetheless I found it completely intriguing (despite at times I did yawn).  Once you read this, it will be one of those books that you will remember.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R3UDDJ4H9E6AVC	0345354907	587914565	The Case of Charles Dexter Ward	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Beware Ye Who Enter	For fear is around the corner. For Howard Phillips Lovecraft, death was never a worry. For many of the characters in his books, death was almost a relief from the torture. It was fear and madness that was always being  confronted head on. The mind of man is quite fragile when placed in  situation of unexpected terror. And Charles Dexter Ward, occultist and  antiquarian is no exception. Ward was a quiet man who moved into his great  great grandfathers house eventually to investigate his past. Set in New  England to give it the right mixture of genuine fright and eeriness.  Lovecrafts masterful style, remiscent of Por, is gorgeous, rich in detail  and content. Full of information on the history of New England. One can get  the sense that Lovecraft knew his locales almost better than his  characters. Aside from his historical geography, Lovecraft also had a very  good understanding of occultism and the ancient languages of Hebrew, Latin  and Greek. Well versed in many of the ancient texts. Of course, this book  also brings out the controversial book the 'Necronomicon.' Some of the  finest in horror written to date that will make you squeamish with fear,  for the most part without the blood and guts. The imagination is more  powerful than the written word, and Lovecraft knows this as well.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	R1M1G6QAI5ZUWJ	0893144177	37928212	The Most Holy Trinosophia of the Comte de St. Germain (English and French Edition)	Books	4	32	34	N	N	A Rare and  Curious Manuscript	Who was the Comte St. Germain? Although there is no certain answer for this, there is some evidence of who he was and what he did. However, still, very little information is available about him. Manly Hall pulls together  his unique library of ancient books to accumulate information about him to  compose a biography. Thereafter, a translation of the Most Holy Trinosophia  along with a facsimile of the original. My only complaint about this book  is the reproductions, which are muddled and hard to see. Not to mention in  black and white, which Hall later gives a commentary which he remaks on the  color of the plates. A color reproduction would have done this book much  more justice. Nonetheless, Hall gives a nice commentary of the work which  he explains that there are 12 chapters (the zodiac) and that each chapter  is part of the cycle of consciousness, or levels. The rituals of initiation  are described in both symbols and commentaries. Some of this is dense to  read and designed for the astute occultist, and other parts are clear and  understandable. Not for all tastes, however for those curious of the lore  of the Comte, then it would be worth the price of the book to pick up,  especially in its hardback format.	2000-07-31
US	50971011	RTUIFW7E6314C	0679725105	529493158	Einstein for Beginners	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A Simplified Approach to a Complicated Subject	Einstein for Beginners acts more as a visual representation of Einsteins work. An easy to read format for anyone interested in knowing Einsteins theories without the mind-boggling formulas. I would suggest this as a  place to begin. A nice read, although the theories one still needs to  comprehend. The author, Joseph Schwartz puts it in a perspective that both  challenges and educates. Highly reccomended!	2000-07-31
US	50971011	RMCPN4P7LUG2I	0877287546	723328456	The Tarot: A Short Treatise on Reading Cards	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Be Your Own Fortune	Have you wanted to know your future? Did you wonder if today will be a good day or a bad day? Ever wonder what problems you have had in the past and how to resolve them? Then you may have come across the book you are  looking for. Famous Occultist S. L. MacGregor Mathers gives a short  discourse on the Tarot which is a reprint of a short pamphlet printed in  1888. Personally I have always been apprehensive when it comes to  divination of any sort, however, I liked Mathers approach. Although its a  short treatise with a brief runabout of the history and meanings, it is  implicitly implied how to set up the reading and how to read it. Stating  also that oneself be the sole reader as one should own their own cards and  do their own readings. Reason being, if my intuition serves me based on his  other works, is the energy that surrounds the deck you hold is not tainted  with other less informed beings so the message will not be dulluted with  too much mixed eneregy. Unless you have your own set of meanings, then the  interpretations in this book will be adequate for any beginner. Well  designed book that is easy to read an informative. If you enjoy Mathers and  are a fan of the Tarot, this is a good introduction.	2000-06-30
US	50971011	R2SGT9EC275MID	0451526597	808071278	The Perfumed Garden of Cheikh Nefzaoui: A Manual of Arabian Erotology (Signet Classics)	Books	5	48	51	N	Y	Any Person's Wake Up	A highly erotic, exotic and curious manuel written in the 16th century is the Perfumed Garden of the Cheikh Nefzaoui. This book was reccomended to me in the readings of Aleister Crowley on one of his many discourses on sexual  magic. The purpose of the Perfumed Garden is to inform the individual of  &quot;proper&quot; sexual practice, the wheres and whens and know-hows and  know-whos. Describing all sorts of positions (and the author comments that  the reader is welcome to make up their own), to the different sizes and  shapes of the male and female genitals (amazon forbids me to say those  dirty nasty words). In almost each instance, the author gives a story in  how to seduce a woman and what to do with her once you have. When not to  fornicate and what to consider once you have. The book does have a male  bias, as it is written from a male point of view, and being that of the  Arabian society, men were the seekers or the hunters while women were the  focus. It would appear that women have less of an option in many cases,  however, there is respect given to the women as they dont neccesarily have  to &quot;give it up&quot; when a man wants her, but rather the man has to  &quot;win&quot; her over. It is the womans job to look as beautiful as she  can (personality not included). Sadly, at least, being a male I like to  think it sad, that the author does give the message that any male ample  enough in their virility to make a womans eyes pop out of her head and  their jaws drop to their knees can win any women. Yet, the Perfumed Garden  does not by any means neglect technique, which as modern day sexologists  would agree is primary for any sexual compatability from both sides of the  court to exist harmoniously. A good companion to the Karma Sutra, the well  known Hindu Manuel of Erotology. I enjoyed the book purely for the erotica  involved, which I found completely stimulating in all areas of the body. I  also found it curious and practical in many ways that it can spice anyones  life, as well as make one think about size; length, width and depth...and  of course, their compatability.spice anyones  life, as well as make one think about size; length, width and depth...and  of course, their compatability.	2000-06-30
US	50971011	R1YLMO35LAIN55	0826404227	466857407	The Cinema of Stanley Kubrick	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Parrot Talk and Kubrick	Norman Kagan should get an &quot;editing&quot; credit rather than &quot;author&quot; credit. This book on the cinema of Stanley Kubrick is basically an accumulation of articles, interviews and reviews of his films  and his life. Albeit some of it was interesting, the book is nothing I  found original. At the end of each chapter, however, the author does take  it upon himself to interpret the films in a manner in which he sees a  destructive, non-sexual, non-emotional Kubrick. That of obsessive and  homicidal. Attempting to make a &quot;connection&quot; in all the films  which I believe is poorly attempted. I would move elsewhere to find word on  Kubrick and his films.	2000-05-23
US	50971011	R1BUO8EM875SD0	048624511X	355873846	Sidelights on Relativity	Books	5	65	69	N	N	Experience vs Hypothesis	This is the first book of I have read in which Einstein wrote directly rather than the many reiterations of his works. Sidelights on Relativity is a two part book of lectures in which he gave in 1920 and 1921. The first  titled &quot;Ether and the Theory of Relativity.&quot; Einstein explores  the concepts given by Newton, Maxwell and Lorentz of the ether arguing the  universe is not mechanical in nature. The other argument is the purely  physical aspect in which the mechanical perspective seems to propose what  is seen is that exists, and/or can be measured and proven to exist. That  &quot;space without ether is unthinkable,&quot; that is, the effects of  spce/time gives credence to ethers existence just as &quot;the undulatory  surface forming the boundary between water and air alters the course of  time.&quot; This, then, creates the contradiction. The second lecture is  titled &quot;Geometry and Experience&quot; in which Einstein argues  Euclidean geometry by noting the difference of experiencing and proposing  laws of earth-measurement. He demonstrates this through the plane and the  globe asking the reader to imagine the globe and a plane. While the plane  is infinite in all directions, similarly one can fill the plane up  infinately. This is not an all together accurate picture of our universe.  Rather if we imagine a sphere and fill that up, we realize only a finite  amount can fill up the space.<br />At this point, I will say that my  understanding stands at a finite point in which it would be only arrogant  for me to claim I understood the entirety of the book. Nonetheless, I found  this book completely readable, mostly due to the fact that there are no  formulas to follow. My knowledge of relativity is limited and I have given  you what I believe I understand. Its a short book with the writing clear  and concise and logical; which surprised me hearing stories about Einsteins  genius in which he is unable to explain in laymans terms. Highly  reccomended!	2000-05-23
US	50971011	R2I1C68RHG3OSW	0879801735	172847389	A Fascinating  History of Magic, Witchcraft and Occultism	Books	1	3	10	N	N	Poorly developed, written and misleading.	Although the book is about Witchcraft, Magic and the Occult, as one browses through it one should immediately notice it acts more as a reference guide rather than any formal history. Crow gives capsulated  accounts of, not just the title words, but any type of secret society,  paranormal experience to ancient wonders and ancient history like cave men  and apes and evolution. Why this has anything to do with the title is  beyond me to answer. Very little references to go by with seemingly overall  irrelevant information, or the information is generalized to the point of  irrelevancy. There are so many books on withcraft, magic and occultism  among the other subjects mentioned on the book that I would hardly  reccomend this to anyone - not even as a beginner or starter book.	2000-05-23
US	50971011	R3ZILNK11TTB	1888869070	85420644	War and Peace in the Global Village: An Inventory of Some of the Current Spastic Situations That Could Be Eliminated by More Feedforward	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Is Your Brain OK or KO?	Media theorist Marshall McLuhan does a double take on the Massage by doubling his informative view of the media world splicing effect after effect after effect. Beginning locally in the village of small tribal cultures of oratory dominance demonstrating the break of the sensorium which created a tactile society. Moving through history as if fragmented in its own way recapitulating the effects of media which broke up the senses and amputated the limbs of our physical and psychical systems. Although written in 1968, McLuhan moves right into the present times understanding first, electricity as extension of the nervous system and lucidly stating that LSD, the psychedelics of the past are equal in effects to the modern day computer as a recomposure of our being. From our computer realities, one can easily define theirs as an integrated inter-net, linking one another through digital media that is light speed. McLuhan understood the implications of Einsteinian-ENIAC models of the world and distupted the passive television view with this commercial interuption to wake up the senses. Reccomended for McLuhan lovers and those who are still watching TV on a regular basis.	2000-05-23
US	50971011	RUE689LXKU0JH	8121505070	476579647	Siva Samhita (English, Sanskrit and Sanskrit Edition)	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	The Classic Yogic Text	Although this book was highly informative and well written, it was not an easy read, nor an entirely pleasant one. I believe the reason mainly is for the dry and, certainly, scholarly translation. Nonetheless, it proved to be  very helpful for me, and surely for those practicing Yoga of all sorts,  whether it be Bhakti, Raja, Jnana or Hatha Yoga. It also includes the main  doctrine of the Yoga student, as well as the disciplines involved. Within,  one will also find positions in which to meditate and the diet one must  take on. All in the frame of 90 pages, this book will surely enlighten  those interested and will get a deeper understanding of the practice. The  book is broken up into 5 chapters with some odd number of aphorisms. Along  with each aphorism is the original Sanskrit text inbetween. I do highly  reccomend the works of Vivikananda as well as &quot;Hatha-Yoga  Pradipika&quot; by Vishnu-devananda. A book to be studied upon rather than  just read, indeed!	2000-05-14
US	50971011	R28A0UWV59EV3O	1561840084	430728017	The Tree of Lies	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dont Lie To Yourself, Become Who You Are	Hyatt's book Tree of Lies is a fun challenge to the Self in a tongue-in-cheek way. Hyatt gives a slice of American Pie and world history and challenges the beliefs of everyone who lives by simple morals by  denouncing them as anything but a lie. The book certainly stands from an  aggressive viewpoint to get the reader to shake off the old skin and step  into a new one, or none at all, perhaps. Some parts were dry and redundant,  however, as a whole I thoroughly enjoyed this book. One of the pleasures  that I found most thrilling were the ending appendixes by a few friends of  Dr. Hyatt's. Introduced by Robert Anton Wilson, anyone interested in  Hyatt's, Wilson's or Leary's work will surely enjoy this one. Become who  you are; there are no guarantees.	2000-05-14
US	50971011	R16XZU731PO0I1	1561841129	119177466	Cosmic Trigger III : My Life After Death	Books	5	7	13	N	N	This Book is a Fake	Robert Anton Wilson's final part of his Cosmic Trigger Series proves that from the beginning its all a conspiracy. Even his own death was just a hoax. Can you prove normalcy beyond a shadow of a doubt? Although I found  this part one of the best, I would still say to read part 1, then part 2,  in that order. Wilson argues Evolution and Creationism, political  correctness, Carl Sagan and of course, conspiracies. Well thought out with  the reading that doubles upon itself, you will find how information adds up  into another line of thinking. Certainly a classic RAW book! Highly  reccomended!	2000-05-14
US	50971011	RJ6PN8YHOQ4CS	050020277X	412763991	The History of Film (World of Art)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wonderful History of Film!	There are lots of books out there on the history  of film, however, there are those that hit the mark quite above others. The History of Film is one of those books. David Parkinsons comprehensive book on the history of film  is not only a great introduction, but also acts as a great reference or  study guide. One of Thames and Hudsons World of Art series, printed on  heavy smooth stock paper with color and black and white photos, one is sure  to appreciate the wuality of this book. Beginning at the dawn of cinema  with primitive snap-shot like cameras, with the advent of film from glass  or discs, into the 20's where cinema was changed forever. There, the greats  are born: Eisenstein, Griffith, Pudovkin, Porter, Lang, and so many others  who contributed, not only to the art of cinema, but to the science of  cinema. Once this is established, theories of film rush in and a wide  variety of culture is brought forth upon the world with different forms of  narrative. From Jules and Jim to Seventh Seal to Olympia to 2001: A Space  Odyssey to Taxi Driver; Bergman, Kubrick, Kurosawa, Capra, Scorsese,  Hitchcock, Chaplin, Huston, and Fellini. Discussing critics points of view,  filmmakers take on the how the films were made as well as the influences  that they would have on society and the film world itself catapulting into  the blockbuster film that we have today. Also bringing out how the studios  were created and who were involved in the ownership. How they broke up and  how Hollywood is run today. I totally enjoyed this book and found it was  well written, informative in every way. The history was kept clear despite  unavoidable overlapping in time. Highly reccomended to the film student!	2000-05-01
US	50971011	REMEZJBHP7DXG	0553278274	957420140	A Night to Remember	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Riding the Waves of the Titanic	I admit it. I caught the Titanic wave when the movie came out. I was intrigued by the story of the huge boat sinking in the middle of nowhere and 1500 people freezing and drowing to death on a boat that splits in half  sinking to the ocean depths. Its a little better than the nightly news.  Walter Lord, authority on the Titanic chronology sets out a most detailed  account of the sinking, from the maiden voyage to the sinking, each  accounted for on the clock. The book was full of facts, however, I felt it  was dry most of the time. I am not arguing the author, just his writing. I  am not all together interested in every member of the crew, nor every  passenger. Least of all am I worried about every little detail or account.  The appendix has a complete listing of every member on board of the ship,  who died and who survived. The story overall is the same and fascinating  still. The inability to answer the question of &quot;why did no one  respond?&quot; still remains even though we know the whole story. Certainly  the best account on the Titanics chronology available to date.	2000-05-01
US	50971011	R3BOOY1CQ4JO9K	0571191371	873960772	Cronenberg on Cronenberg (Directors on Directors)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Look Into a Great Mind	A semi-autobiographical look into the world of David Cronenberg and how he came to make films of grotsque, yet, captivating life of media, biology and society. You will read about his influences in his early childhood life and  then, eventually, virtually being the only Canadian film director with a  promise. Cronenberg seems humble in his writing, yet, you get a sense of  high intelligence. Definately reccomended! It is a good read, moves along  nicely and you will be quite fascinated by his personal accounts of his  world and what inspires him.	2000-05-01
US	50971011	RR7EUUYXQN5FD	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Classic Tale of a Classic Time	Its written with high detail and low action. Fitzgerald's now classic piece of life in the 20's set in New York, Long Island. I cant think of a more moving book than this one, however, I had realized that I felt more  when I was done with book. When I had a chance to see the story as a whole  that the emotions began to set in. Truly wonderful writing that is top  notch among any of the writers I have read. His reading does not  &quot;talk&quot; over you, but rather with you. Which is what makes the  story attractive. Although many people complain about being forced to read  it for school, its probably best read on your own time without  constrictions. The story of Jay Gatzby, party man, millionaire, mansion  owner. Everyone knows Jay. But who really knows him? Highly reccomended!	2000-05-01
US	50971011	R25COX6MPXSF6N	0863161391	856323467	Derrida for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An Excellent Beginning!	Before I read this book, all I ever hear of Derrida is that he is so hard to read. Upon reading this, I realized where this could be true. This beginners book is very well written and made Derrida's work simple to understand. Although one may need a basic knowledge in linguistics and  Sassure, one does not need it all together to comprehend some of Derrida's  work. Author Jim Powell gives a concise look into the dense writings of the  linguist which I not only found easy, but exciting - enough to make me want  to go out and read some of the material that is written about. Along with  an explanation of Derrida's work is also a brief biography which gives on  an idea where he is coming from. Highly reccomended! One of the best  beginners book to date.	2000-04-23
US	50971011	R2Y2QY9KMABCIK	0486232115	736685133	The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage (Dover Occult)	Books	5	14	21	N	Y	Who Is YOUR Holy Guardian Angel?	Possibly the best book on Magic(k) available. The book that would eventually be the main influence in Crowley's magic texts. The writings of the Son Lamech delivered by Abraham the Jew in a clear translation by S. L. MacGregor Mathers. This book, although written clearly and understandable  for anyone, is not to be attempted by just anyone - not yet! For there are  preliminary steps that are not included, however, they are inferred  thoughout in its own, archaic as it is, language. In answer to that, I  believe the Zen koan may suffice; &quot;What is the sound of one  hand?&quot; Mathers gives a scholarly translation, with history behind it,  which hints at his humbleness (perhaps of the time in which he translated).  Highly reccomended for those studying and practicing the magical arts. A  precursor I would suggest is Vivikenanda's 'Raja-Yoga.' From there, one can  summon angels and devils at Will with full Knowledge of what they are doing  using magic sqaures and acrostics. Those that have read the 'Goetia' (also  translated by Mathers) and Hyatt and DuQuette's 'Enochian Sex Magick' may  see some similarities and parallels. However, a classic in every right.	2000-04-23
US	50971011	R91HKZEV62TX6	0893145254	977854817	Story of Astrology	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An Historical Look At Astrology	Beginning with a general survey of astrology, its general uses and ideas and then taking you through the various astrological systems. Historically and culturally the zodiacs are quite varied and the manner in which &quot;charts&quot; is unique also, starting with the Hindus and Burmese and  moving along to Tibetan, Greek, Roman, Arab, and Aztec. This all sounds  interesting, however, I found the text to be dry and focused more on  accounts of the use of astrology rather than explaining the astrological  system of each. In some instances, author and occult historian Manly P.  Hall, does demonstrate some idea of how they are done, or how the zodiac  equates with the calender and body, but it is far and few inbetween and  left me yawning. Hall follows up from the different systems to a discourse  on Astrology and Religion, Philosophy and Science. Drawing from his main  influences, that of ancient philosophy and occultism, he attempts to bridge  the gap to modern day understandings and presumes &quot;hopes for mankind  that perfection of this art will raise social awareness and conditions far  beyond our present limitations.&quot; Hall usually is a great read, but  this one falls short compared to his other occult essays. Not reccomended  for someone just into astrology, but rather for the student of astrology  and astrology based predictions.	2000-04-23
US	50971011	R2RAYYXWD3DJNF	0893145343	94663301	Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy (Adept Series)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Short History of Alchemy and Alchemists	Manly P. Hall's Adept Series reports on the Great Work of Alchemy. Giving a brief history of the art of transmutating base metals into gold. Alchemy, from the Arabian 'al' meaning God, while chemi, or 'khmi' or 'khem' from Egyptian hierglyph meaning dark earth, or darkness, which refers to the  occult or hidden aspects of this art. 'khem' became chemistry, and thus  alchmey which literally translated 'God-chemistry.' This is still being  disputed accoring to Hall. Moving on, the author sets on to biograph the  lives of many famous alchemists like Flammel, Lord Bacon, Khunrath, Lully,  Vaughn, Valentine and some more obscure professors. Although brief in its  entirety, Hall gives a valid and scholarly look into the world of ancient  alchemy. At some points, because of the reference to these men are so  vague, Hall gives his best attempt at ressurecting a life for these men  whom very little has been written due to the heretical works of the times.  Reccomended!	2000-04-23
US	50971011	R36KLMPPRSOG8R	086316160X	207877317	Foucault for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Books: 62)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Nice Introduction to the History of Power	Beginners books sets out to simplify Foucaults work and essentially does so. Sometimes almost too simple. I enjoyed the material, as I had no clue what Foucault was about previous to reading, however, I also felt the writing was a little too sparse. The pictures are nice, which makes this  series attractive, yet, they filled the page often with splash words and  large fonts which sometimes seemed unnecessary or only to fill a page.  Regardless, the text is good and informative and reccomended for anyone who  is interested in reading Foucault for the first time but does not know  where to begin.	2000-04-23
US	50971011	R2L3QG73UJTJAX	0140285652	826622434	Death of a Salesman: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The American Idenity	What a traumatic look at a family of 1950's America. The Land of the Free is the Land of the Miserable. Struggling to keep alive thier hopes and dreams are continually knocked down by the race towards financial security.  Willy Loman, a poor salesman who tragically reminds himself of the past -  the &quot;good 'ol days.&quot; Unfortunately these days were not so good  and the future is always better. A tragedy in every sense, Arthur Miller  creates a sad look into American idealism of the 50's demonstrating that  man's identiy is surrounded by his job and finances. A masterpiece!	2000-04-01
US	50971011	R184BN918G5I45	1558183604	807705909	The Emerald Tablet of Hermes	Books	4	27	27	N	Y	An Ancient Critique of an Ancient Text	This edition of the Emerald Tablet which in which Hortulanus gives  commentary of the thirteen &quot;stanzas&quot; of the Hermes most famous  work. The translation by Patrick J. Smith is readable with explanatory  notes. There is a short introduction which attempts to give a concise  history of the Emerald Tablet, then proceeds from there to read the Tablet  in full, while thereafter is the commentary then notes. Not a long book,  however the dialect of the times is enough to slow the reader down a bit,  not to mention the dense subject matter. Its not an entirely entertaining  book, but fascinating in itself is the Emerald Tablet. The notes are  without references, however well written in a dry, scholarly form.  Reccomended for the student of alchemy and occultism.	2000-03-30
US	50971011	RROPD3PUTN7OM	0893145343	94663301	Orders of the Great Work: Alchemy (Adept Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bio-Historical Perspective	While Manly Hall gives a brief history of alchemy in general, deriving its  roots which seem to come from Arabia and the Middle East. As part of Hall's  &quot;Adept Series,&quot; the main focus of the text is on a select few of  famous alchemists. Albertus Magnus and Hermes Trismegistus did not make the  list, however, thier influece is recognized. Manly Hall chose the likes of  Roger Bacon, Nicholas Flammel, Paracelsus, Johan Baptista van Hemont,  Thomas Vaughn and a few other more obscure characters in the alchemical  world. Hall's writing is observant, yet sometimes unsure, challenging other  perspectives and assumptions (such as A. E. Waite). Because of the esoteric  topic there is not much literature to go by, and many times one has to  decipher through code and language pattern to really determine its owner,  thus giving Hall a tough job of attempting a linear chronology of  alchemical history. Overall it is well researched with lots of good  information for the occult historian and student that is fairly easy to  read. Definately reccomended!	2000-03-30
US	50971011	R1WJUDW4EOZBC4	0788158228	156821372	Design for Dying	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Design Your Dying and Death -Throw a Party!	Timothy Leary's final media jump into the unknown world of death and technology. Famed LSD Guru, former Harvard Professor and author of some 20 books, Dr. Timothy Leary attempts to marry technology with the dying  process. Before doing this, he gives a brief history of his life, the  trials and tribulations. Once he discovers his own diagnosis of prostate  cancer he then takes the step to make death a public and cultural issue.  Attempting to have his brain frozen, or consider nanotechnology to  &quot;fix&quot; himself, or perhaps have his ashes flown into space.  Leary's job in this book to make the reader aware of the many ways one can  die with dignity. I enjoyed this book because its the one book that Leary  wrote with the most accessiblity and clearity unlike his other chaos works.  The book also has an addendum from all his friends. Certainly Timothy Leary  fans will cherish this book, as well as those interested in the process of  death.	2000-03-25
US	50971011	R2IP7EVE7HD52V	1561840386	927624381	The Intelligence Agents (Future History)	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	So, Who and What Are the Intelligence Agents?	As Marvin Minsky desribes in his book 'Society of Mind' the Agents are small programs that achieve small tasks on their own. Once an Agent is grouped with another Agent new functions and actions can occur that single Agents cannot produce on their own. So what about a whole society of  Agents?<br />Dr. Timothy Leary, in his own chaotic style, recapitulates  evolution from the first organism in which life began in the Eastern  Oriental shorelines. DNA, the breath of life is always chasing the Sun  Westward towards our neurological destiny. If you are familar with Dr.  Leary's 24 Stage/8 Neuro-Circuit theory, then you will get a rise from this  book. We have migrated from Asia to California as the launching pad into  space where we will create H.O.M.E.s (High Oribtal Mini-Earths). The  Intelligence Agents have already established their homes in future hive  colonies. The secret to becoming an Intelligence Agent and Intelligence  Increase is to SMILE (Space Migration Intelligence Increase Life Extension  - the 'I' is squared).<br />The book is designed to look like articles  written from future and past Intelligence Agents, with Leary out in the  wings sending you transmissions from Switzerland on his update. The  articles falsely written by such neuronauts as Carol Rosin, Anise Nun,  Henry Marshall, Pauline Kael, Andy Warhol, Susan Kaiser Vogel and so many  others that Leary includes in the Genetic Hall of Fame (however, one must  realize at some point this was all written by Leary himself). The  Intelligence Agents are all working together to get you moving.<br />Leary's  style is jumbled with theories, ideas, histories, dedications, neurological  data, DNA information, cultures of smaller organisms, cultures of cosmic  life, evolution of organisms and individuals, occult, philosophy and  metaphors compact in what seems to be a cross of 'Neuropolitique' and 'The  Game of Life.' What I find exciting about this book is not so much the  confusing writing, but within the chaos there is a positive code that Leary  is sending to all of us, possibly decoded from his own DNA transmissions,  and that code is: &quot;Move On!&quot;he chaos there is a positive code that Leary  is sending to all of us, possibly decoded from his own DNA transmissions,  and that code is: &quot;Move On!&quot;	2000-03-24
US	50971011	R28H7YZN3K3M9H	0520073096	637740894	The Early Alphabet (Reading the Past)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Condensed Alphabetic History	This little book, although only 62 pages, is chock full of information. Setting out from the consonantal alphabets of Proto-Sinitic forms and Ugaritic taking you through time to Greek, Latin, Hebrew and Arabic, which  seem to be derived from the ancient Semetic languages of East and West and  the devleopment of vowels. The book is filled with many pictures and  diagrams of alphabets from ancient cultures, which help the clarity.  Although the book is filled with good information, dont let the size fool  you. There are lots of different lanugages and alphabets here with many  names to remember. Its not exciting reading, mostly scholarly text and not  any narrative to help the reader along. While this is a good book for  someone who already has some knowledge of historical alphabets, I would not  suggest this as an intro. Reccomended to those that already have an  introuctory course in linguistics and historical alphabets.	2000-03-21
US	50971011	R2C94AC5RT5KOL	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truly Unique	The story of the creation of the mammoth Oxford English Dictionary (the linguist jargon is OED). Our star players is Dr. W. C. Minor and Professor James Murray. One on board making working the rest of his life on the OED, while the other in a psychiatric hospital from the Civil War writing  obsessively about the etymologyies of some 10,000 words. The most words  given by any one single person. While the book lagged in some areas,  overall this book was highly unique and totally interesting. Aside from the  story of how Minor and Murray became good friends through correspondences  and meetings at the hospital, one aspect of the book that I enjoyed the  most was that it gave me a great sense of appreciation for what goes into  the workings of a dictionary - in particular the OED. The book also gives  emphasis on certain words which allows the reader to understand much better  the language that s/he uses and to give much more appreciation into what  one says. Profound in some ways, this book is most highly reccomended.	2000-03-11
US	50971011	R3A9V6R98PGEUG	0931191009	378047863	East and West: Ancient Wisdom and Modern Science	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Are We There Yet?	Famed LSD Psychotherapist Stanislav Grof gives this lecture in written form in 1983 at the Seventh International Transpersonal Conference in Bombay, India. Although only 25 pages long, Grof gives a concise, yet dense  history of Western Science. Explaining the cross-overs into other branches  of study, for instance Freud's theories are based on Newtonian-Cartesian  physics, in which people have drives that have cause and effect. Well  &quot;written,&quot; and for the most part for the layman, however, there  are some prerequisites of knowledge in order to grasp it in its entirety.  This book, for me, gave me a great and new understanding of what Einsteins  theory of relativity means to our culture: that our way of thinking as a  culture changes from A to B, to the instantaneous now A and B. If there  were to be any arguments made, it would not be on this lecture in  partiular, but many who writes about Western science &quot;against&quot;  Eastern wisdom, is that it always seems that the West is trying to get to  the East and not vice verse, which, really the idea they begin with is to  meet in the middle. A good read overall, and highly reccomended. A good  book to read with this is Alan Watt's &quot;The Book.&quot;	2000-03-11
US	50971011	R3ULOFVKRYLDB5	089190235X	208130081	Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth	Books	5	48	55	N	N	Control, Operate and Plan Your Spaceship	R. Buckminster Fuller's (Bucky hereout), designer of the geodesic dome (one can see at EPCOT), lays down the thought patterns of a successful world in this short and concise book based on his discoveries (probably  more appropriate than inventions, as he said &quot;I am not tryingto  imitate nature, I'm trying to find the principles she uses&quot;). It is in  this book that Bucky gives the reader insight into how he thinks, and how  to change ones thinking entirely, to see the Earth as a Spaceship. To feel  yourself riding the Earth as a Spaceship. Demonstrating from the anceint  &quot;pirates&quot; and how evolution is changed through specialization.  How a wealthy nation, such as ours, cannot afford to make economical  mishaps or delays on such life-giving elements as water. Moving our modes  of consciousness into Einsteinian, omni-directional thinking, we can then  turn to everyone to &quot;co-operate.&quot; To help others, and not gain at  the expense of others. Certainly a classic in its own right, this book will  change the way you think, not about life or the world, just that you change  your thinking, making every action a universal consequence. There is only  one Earth, and we are all living in it. Reccomended!	2000-03-11
US	50971011	RMQJG3XQURYJJ	0874779111	251799285	The Cosmic Serpent	Books	4	62	72	N	N	An Intimate Journalists Journey	I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and found the writing easy to get along with as its written in narrative form that. Anthropologist Jeremy Narby steps off the plane and into Amazonian country. Here he tries the commonplace hallucinagenic ayahuasca. This plant gives Narby incredible  insight into the human soul, body and nature of life. The author then gives  his experience in as much detail as he could remember, then passing along  the rest of his trip with conversations and whatnot. From here, he sets out  to write his book. Although the author does sort of jump to conclusions  that the double serpents he sees all over ancient mythology is the double  helix of DNA (i.e. the medical symbol caduceus). Although in some cases I  tend to agree with his point of view, and I find much of the ancient  symbols of the past to correlate strongly with our modern psychology,  mathematical sciences and biology. However, in his search, he does not let  go of the idea, which may or not not help his cause. The book would have  received 5 stars, if he stayed on top of his subject. He began with  hallucinagenics in the Amazon, then to DNA, then neurology and smoking  ingredients. He writes humbly knowing what he believes wont be taken to  heart very lightly. There are no answers in this book, however many  questions, pertinent questions no less, which makes this such a valuble and  enjoyable book. Definately reccomended. Fans of Joseph Campbell may really  enjoy this one.	2000-03-11
US	50971011	RXWK34V6JIQWO	0060977264	344489539	By the River Piedra I Sat Down and Wept	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Modern Enchantment	Paulo Coelho writes another great story (one should read &quot;The Alchemist&quot; first) about love, God and the struggle between the two. When one leaves their home, family and childhood love for a spiritual journey, then sends word to his childhood sweetheart, things begin to tense  up; human love for another, or spiritual love for God. A great story and  well written, Coelho knows how to tell a story simply and clearly. Highly  reccomended!	2000-03-11
US	50971011	R5WSFVLRQ66K6	0422734608	715925771	Sanity, Madness and the Family: Families of Schizophrenics (Study in Existentialism & Phenomenology)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	A Testimony of Schizophrenia	Famed psychiatrist R. D. Laing gives a study of eleven families and thier children whom are schizophrenic. Laing gives no interjections, but rather lets the conversations that the families have amongst themselves give their  own testimony. Laing lets the reader know where language patterns occur, in  which he believes is largely due to the psychic split. The &quot;double  bind&quot; theory introduced by Gregory Bateson, in which the child has  been given mixed messages. In the cases given, the studies are all female,  and the mothers are usually the aggressor, while the father the passive,  and if other siblings are included, they usually side with the mother  against the sibling. Shocking, sad and enlightening all together, Laing  gives a great look on how schizophrenic in this light can and does occur.  Highly reccomended and should be read by all psychologists entering or in  the field (it is a shame that this book, like so many of R.D. Laings books  are out of print). One should include with this book Gregory Batesons  &quot;Steps to an Ecology of Mind&quot; which includes the essay which  explains the &quot;double bind.&quot;	2000-03-11
US	50971011	RNQCMCUIH1XDE	0872233847	378541911	The Book of the Breast	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Psychology and Occultism Abreast	Robert Anton Wilson's &quot;Book of the Breast&quot; was his fourth book. Now printed by New Falcon Publishing under the indiscriminating title of &quot;Ishtar Rising.&quot; The edition that I am reviewing is of the Playboy Press edition which is quite different, which is why I am making the distinction. Although the text is the same, throughout the book there are pictures of Playboy Pin-Ups which add to the whole delight of the book and serves its purpose in getting across the idea of the book. The New Falcon edition is all type and a few non-Playboy pics inserted. The book on the other hand was great. Wilson makes many fine arguments about the Breast and how we should be adoring the Breast, not abandoning it, or locking it out of society as if it were the Devil incarnate which rose upon women's Breasts for men to gawk and lose their scientific rationale. Throughout history, at least from the Judaica-Hebrew inception on throughout time up until about the 20's was sex, women and any other type of so-called deviant thought was considered heretical. R. A. Wilson gives an amalgum of references and quotations and puts it together in a cohesive logical and thought-provoking manner, which I believe is his specialty. His comprehension and retension level of information fascinates me and this is one more testimony to that trait of his that he utilizes so well in his writing. Highly reccomended! I would suggest, however, that you search for this version before settling for the New Falcon edition. Although I fully support the library of New Falcon (as they one of my favorite publishers). The Playboy edition is a little difficult to find and you may pay a few dollars extra, but for the experience of it, I believe it is worth it.	2000-03-04
US	50971011	R2P06K8TS7JMYI	1561840505	149917351	The Game of Life (Future History Series, Vol. 5)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Leary's Neuro-Circuits via Tarot	Dr. Timothy Leary's book 'The Game of Life' (Part 4 of his Future-History Series) is by far one of his best and most accessible. Although, like most of his books, they are chaotic and disorganized and for the most part  confusing, this book catergorizes Leary's own philosophy into the  scientific-occult world of Aleister Crowley and Tarot. Leary begins with  evolution and Darwin, along with Mendeleyev and his classification of  chemical elements. Along with neurological thoughts of the nervous system,  DNA, synaptic connections, I-Ching and Hindu Mythology. This is the first  part, which may seem random and non-linear, he eventually connects all of  this to the system of Tarot, which is the ancient occult divination  practice in which picture symbols unconsciously give your brain suggestions  in e-volving your DNA consciousness while in-volving your body/mind  circuitry. Highly regarding Aleister Crowley's work in his &quot;Book of  Thoth&quot; and his own Tarot deck, he understands that Crowley was on a  similar path, only using different language. The second part is a chapter  dedicated to each Tarot card alloting it its own intelligence in the chain  of evolutionary process. Leary does expand the set giving it 24 major cards  instead of the standard 22. An excellent book and highly reccomended to  all!. At first glance this book may look like an issue of Mad Magazine, but  once studied and practiced, it all comes together. Although its hard to  appreciate on its own, I would suggest reading Crowley's own &quot;Book of  Thoth&quot; along with it. Also reccomended is Leary's  &quot;Info-Psychology&quot; in which he explains the 24 neuro-circuits more  scientifically. And for an even more accessible view and understanding of  Leary's 24 neuro-circuits is Robert Anton Wilson's &quot;Prometheus  Rising.&quot; These books together will give you a 3-Dimensional  understanding and insight into the wisdom of the body/brain. This book also  has contributiuons by R. A. Wilson.on.	2000-02-23
US	50971011	R1KW20A5RX7TV5	0804814570	187602105	Rashomon and Other Stories:	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Masterpiece in Short Story	Roshomon, written in 1952, is truly genius in storytelling. From Japanese author Ryunosuke Akutagawa, Roshomon (the story which I write about is titled &quot;In a Grove&quot;) deals with a murder and the trial that takes  place. Essentially it demonstrates that no point of views are ever alike.  The killer, the witnesses, the girl and the dead himself all testify to  what 'really' happened. Of course, in such an incident, no one has any  story that seems equal to anothers. Reality, is whats being demonstrated,  is subjective due by the fact that no one has an all-seeing point of view.  The story is simple, yet well written. It moves along smoothly and  swiftly.<br />The stories that make up the rest of the book I did not read,  for this story was suggested by psychologist Paul Watzlawick who was  inspired by the multiple point of view story telling. This story was also  made into a film by Japanses master film maker Akira Kurosawa, which is  also highly reccomended. Great story telling, and reccomeded for anyone who  loves short stories with a psychological twist. Remarkable!	2000-02-19
US	50971011	R10ZWWET0XEAYA	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	5	34	44	N	N	Jonathan the Great Gull	I can remember, before I read this book about 5 years ago, growing up always seeing this book lying around my house. Of course at the time I never inquired as to what it was, I just saw it all the time. I always  associated it with some Christian book of inspiration that my father was  reading, which is why I never bothered to look at it.<br />After reading  this, however, I was truly amazed with the story. I knew I knew it. I mean,  the story was entirely familar. Like most people growing up in a Christian  household they are likely to hear the story of Jesus. Either from their  parents, church or wherever. This book surprised me with the parallel to  Jesus' own life. Jonathan Livingston Seagull, who knew he something better  to do than just eat. So he flew higher and higher and came down faster and  faster. He was learning. He was experiencing.<br />Soon, after being kicked  out of his own lang and meeting some very wise Gulls. They taught him  perfect speed. It was some time before I understood what this meant. But I  found out one day at an Ani DiFranco concert (learning is everywhere around  you). Someone said that she was the fastest female metal guitarist, or  something or other. It dawned on me then what perfect speed was. Its not  the speed, its not the height, but the quality. In a word: now.<br />At any  rate, this book was one of the books that really inspired me, for many  things outside of it just being a Jesus parallel. It inspired me to know  that we all have more to do with our time than to work to make money to eat  (ad infinitum). One of the great books of its day. Highly reccomended for  those who love good stories. (Oh, by the way - if you loved this story and  thought you might want to see the movie. Dont! You will be utterly bored,  especially by Neil Diamonds droning terrible songs in which a short book is  made into a 2 hour live rendition. A complete let down, not to mention a  waste of a film).	2000-02-19
US	50971011	R1HXKJVCA795T4	0863161952	391036409	Saussure for Beginners (Writers and Readers Beginners Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Here Begins the Father of Modern Linguistics	Saussure for Beginners is an excellent intro to the man whom is credited with as the the creator of modern linguistics. Well written and somewhat easy. This book will surely be taken in stride if you intend to understand  exactly what Saussure was saying. As a beginner myself, I found some of the  theories confusing. Yet, as I found out later, it was not the writing, it  was the theory itself because linguistics is a tricky subject if not  approached with some caution. I dont know of any other book that would be a  good introduction to the subject, not only of Saussure, but of linguistics  itself. Saussure has influenced so many others from Chomsky, Lacan,  Derrida, Barthes and so many others. Overall not as fun as many other For  Beginners books, however there is certainly more information displayed  here. I definately reccomend this book before any other books on  linguistics (yes, even before Saussures own posthumous book 'Course on  General Linguistics').	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R53320BM1AJHH	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Beautiful Work!	This is the first play by Arthur Miller I have read, and I inquired into mostly because of my interest with Witchcraft and the Salem trials. A wonderful play that shows the hypocrisy of a town threatened by purported  withcraft. The cried of &quot;witch&quot; by anyone in this town aroused  and scared everyone. The lead characters Abagail Williams along with  Reverend Parris and John Proctor. I will not give any story here, for you  should read it and be surprised and amazed. Nonetheless, the story lets one  wonder how such a town and belief in the Bible (more so than God) can lead  to such havok. The laws are simple: 1) You are not a witch until someone  points the finger at you. 2) You can deny these charges, but you will be  hung. 3) If you confess you are a witch, then the sentence is jail. 4) If  you do not believe in withcraft you will be hung. These were the beliefs of  the time, and it is demonstrated in this marvelous play. Arthur Miller  tells an exciting story based on history (although he says its not literal  history  for there were some need for dramatic purpose), of a time when  things were simple in America and Massachusettes, yet like all towns in the  world, there is always something brewing in the minds of the good who want  to banish evil from their homes. Highly reccomended!	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R2TBV17W1YVOG3	185326427X	685279918	The Works of James Joyce (Wordsworth Poetry Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Musing Music	James Joyces lesser known poetry is interesting when comparing his literary works of Finnegans Wake and Portrait of a Young Man. This book has 3 sets of poems, the first is called &quot;Chamber Music.&quot; Its made up  of 36 short poems in which Joyce shows love gained and love lost. I  particularly enjoyed this series because each poem is either of the lady or  man speaking in a musical tone, alternately, page by page. Later after  these were published a few musicians put them to actual music which  apparently made Joyce quite happy. The second set, titled &quot;Pomes  Penyeach,&quot; are appearingly random, although they seem to go together  in a strange way when you read them. The last poem, titled &quot;Ecce  Puer&quot; about the birth of his grandson and the death of his father.  Very moving how in a few words Joyce gives out his feelings of happyness,  sadness and somewhat resentment. Simple describes best this set of poems  that Joyce collected in his early years of writing, which Chamber Music is  the first work of Joyce to actually appear in print. Certainly a good  addition to any Joyce lover as well as one who love poetry.	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R158WRLPBQMG93	0893570680	540662077	Brain and Language: Cerebral Hemispheres and Linguistic Structure in Mutual Light (New York University Slavic papers)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Small Lecture on the Left and Right Ear	Roman Jakobson in his later years of Brain and Language studies delivers this lecture at New York University in 1980. Although this may be somewhat dated at the moment, Jakobson surely gives some wonderful insights into how  language is understood by the brain, and in particular how the ears listen  and then register to the brain. Written in a highly dense and technical  (considering its a lecture) along with really long winded sentences that  makes it more difficult to gather everything. He is certainly talking to  the learned student of phonology and neurology. Citing from many examples  from the 40's through the late 70's, Jakobson shows that hearing is a  contralateral process. He explains this through process of aphasia and  other brain disorders and some people with damaged hearing. And these  works, from what I can tell are extended from Gazzaniga's work, as well as  so many others who worked with siezures and split-brain operations.  Definately reccomended for the language and linguistic student, as well as  for neurology studies. Also reccomended is Karl H. Pribram's &quot;Language  of the Brain.&quot;	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R317NNKF46FWRT	1561840017	363440398	Sex, Drugs & Magick: A Journey Beyond Limits	Books	4	30	36	N	N	Demystification	R. A. Wilson's early book on secret orders of the old and drugs of today. Mystics and psychedelics, cops and addicts. Promiscuity and frigidity. All of these are taken into account, which is definately a scholarly look into  the world of drugs and whether or not they are dangerous as well as the  uses for them and their user intentions. Each chapter looks in depth into a  different drug, there are 5 main drugs: LSD, Cocaine, Alcohol, Marijuana,  and Heroin. After each chapter there is a story that gives a personal  account of someone RAW met whom had troubles with dugs, either of addiction  or some other problem that drugs helped or caused damage. Overall its an  objective look into drugs, although Wilson gives some hints that he is  pro-drugs (by the fact that he himslef clearly states his use of drugs).  However, like Leary and Crowley, the use of drugs should be used  moderately, intelligently and with a guide. The reason this book did not  get 5 stars is because A) there are so many mispellings in this book that  New Falcon should look it over again, or whoever edits this book should be  replaced. B) R. A. Wilson, although it is quite clear in how intelligent he  is, and his comprehension level is amazing, yet he takes a complex subject  like the works of Aleister Crowley and explains the message behind the veil  (perhaps it can be argued of what Crowley is really saying, but this is  what I gatehred in the reading). Robert A. Wilson shows Crowleys work in a  new light, certainly, but it was too explanatory and made Crowleys work too  obvious to enjoy the mystery behind the works of the great Magician.  Nonetheless, however, I feel its a good companion to the rest of Wilson's  work, and by right it fits in niceley. Wilson has done a great job  researching his material showing both the cons and pros of drugs which  would make one not only more aware of the drug they choose (if they choose,  as well as drugs in themselves), but also being aware of the circumstances  surrounding them as well as consequences. Reccomended with this book is  Timothy Leary's book &quot;The Delicious Grace of Moving One's Hand.&quot;s  surrounding them as well as consequences. Reccomended with this book is  Timothy Leary's book &quot;The Delicious Grace of Moving One's Hand.&quot;	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R26Z6DVN4V07X6	0863161626	499587694	Classical Music for Beginners (A Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book ; 66)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Short and Simple, yet Shallow	Stacy Combs Lynch has given a beginners book on Classic Music, however I am not sure what age group the beginners have to be. Although there is some interesting information here, it seems as though something is missing in  this book. Perhaps its not focused enough, for the idea of Classical Music  alone can be very broad. She carts down the famous composers dedicating a  page or two to each of them pertaining to different eras and different  classical styles. Once in a while there is be an interuption in what a  particular style or instrument does. Overall the book is brief and could  have been better with more information. A better book is &quot;Classical  Music (Teach Yourself&quot;.	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R3959BE22X14HR	0863161642	951660791	Freud for Beginners (Writing and Readers Documentary Comic Books)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Frued Explained	Although this book does not give a full account of Freud's works and theories, it does give a credible attempt at looking at the life, works and influences of his works. Starting out with a biography of Dr. Frued, the  family affair, the education, as well as his associates. Soon looking in to  the psychological theories of his works. His relationship and hardship with  Dr. Carl Jung, and so many of the followers Freud had, lost and kept in his  battle of Judaism and Nazism. Well accounted, fun and easy to read which  makes the learning fun and easy as well. Reccomended to anyone curious  about Freud without beign bogged down with technical and scholarly works.  This is a good companion to Jung and Adler for Beginners. One can't also  neglect &quot;A Primer for Freudian Psychology.&quot;	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R3BQNG71JD25YB	0863161774	430523557	Sartre for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book,)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	No Place to Begin But Here	Sartre for Beginners by Donald Palmer (whom wrote a few of the 'For Beginners' books) gives a fun look at the popularizer of existentialism. Drawing from Sartre's life experiences, biography and influences to show  how Sartre came to his theories. An easy read, although one must still  contemplate on some level the philosophies that are presented before them.  A good beginning book for anyone who wants to learn more about Sarte and  existentialism in general. A good addition to the For Beginners book  series.	2000-02-18
US	50971011	R28XD8QSFODUZG	0893148210	512099660	Great Books on Religion & Esoteric Philosophy: With a Bibliography of Related Material Selected from the Writings of Manly P. Hall	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Hall on Books and Reading	Truly one of the most unque sort of books I have read. Manly Hall in the opening chapter gives a lengthy discussion on books and how to appreciate them and what one should do in reading and collecting books. Paperbacks he  says have sort created a novelty in publishing, as well as lost some of the  finer aspects of harcover books. Granted one can argue price over quality  any day. Yet many times in paperbacks much of the work is edited. Not so  much the text, but perhaps little drawings, headers, borders and so forth.  These, he says, are all clues to understanding the book, author, the  history as well as symbols. Second he gives a list of books he feels are  praiseworthy as well as ones he feels one should include in their library.  Setting out earlier that one should have about 100 books for their library  and set out to learn about them, the publishers, printing, dates and  rarities. These 100 books should be prized books, not just Dover reprints  or mass market paperbacks. As he says &quot;This author could have touched  this book&quot; in which one will place more personal value on it. The  books he lists are obscure, perhaps ones you would not pick, but ones he  chose mostly for their historical value as well as content value. Ones that  are hard to find (during the time of this books printing) as well as the  originals themselves. One should choose a book to begin their library, save  the money and search for it. find out the quality of the book, the  condition, making sure that its in its original form (with dustjack and  other accessories that may accompany it). Then he discusses when one reads  a book to always have a dictionary at their side. Read for no more than an  hour because your brain will begin to hesitate and slide if its strained  and forced. Read for an hour, look up the words you dont know and learn the  word by writing it down. Manly Hall surely has a fascination and total  appreciation for, not just good books, but books in general. This book has  given me a new outlook on the quality and appreciation of books today and  always.ok has  given me a new outlook on the quality and appreciation of books today and  always.	2000-02-14
US	50971011	R322QC616QB7DB	089314388X	238734788	The Secret Destiny of America	Books	5	252	273	N	N	An Unorthodox History of the USA	Manly Hall's book on the hidden destiny of america is a well written and easy to read book of America as the Neoplatonic Utopia. Citing from rare and obscure references you will discover some amazing ideas of a land not  born in history until some 500 or more years later. The book starts out in  Ancient Egypt with Aknaten, as he declares the first democrat. Hall then  states that the Greeks did at one time sail to America and got as far as  the Great Lakes. The book also deals largely with prophecies. That of  Atlantis, Nastradamus, Lord Bacon, Plato, and other more 'silent' prophets.  The one particular aspect of this book that I really enjoyed is that Manly  Hall really appreciates books and knowledge. He values them to the utmost  degree (see his Great Books on Religion and Esoteric Philosophy). In the  course of this literature he states that its not the facts that matter, but  rather there is another point of view of history that we may not be aware  of. This is just another one and to take it as gosepel truth is to miss the  point entirely. Its to keep our imagination rolling and our eyes open that  we can see the [personal] utopia. He goes on saying that America is the  lost Utopia, or the never found utopia that so many people have been  searching for or speculating in theory. Among the famous people that  founded this country of whom all of which were involved in Freemasonry or  other Secret Occult Societies. Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, and perhaps  even Christopher Columbus. It is clear Manly P. Hall knows his materials  and the content within them. Highly reccomended for anyone learning about  utopias, American history, Manly Hall readers, Freemasonry and Secret  Society.	2000-02-14
US	50971011	R1TAJK1HENBNL9	0877282684	15378642	The Book of Thoth: A Short Essay on the Tarot of the Egyptians, Being the Equinox Volume III No. V	Books	5	98	103	N	N	A Moving Pictogram of the Universe	Aleister Crowley's writing (in general) certainly is one of the most complex styles that I have come across. Quite a learned man, however one must realize to bypass the content of his words and see through them as if  they were covers to different tombs of knowledge, understanding and wisdom.  His Book of Thoth (Egyptian Tarot) may be his best work and seeming most  thought out (aside from Magick: Book 4). To buy the book is not enough, one  surely would need the card set as well to get the full effect of his  descriptions of the cards. Introducing the Tarot in history as well as the  inflential men of the Tarot. Highly regarding Eliphas Levi and his book  Transcendental Magic: Its Dogma and History as one the best and classic  works on the Tarot (also suggested is Paul Foster Cases book &quot;The  Tarot: The Wisdom of the Ages&quot;). I would say that Tarot Divnitors are  not advised for this book because Crowley does not use the cards to fortell  anothers future, but rather as meditative devices to alter ones  consciousness and peer into the unknown world, seeing the other universe -  that is prophecy. After explaining the relationship of the Qaballah, he  moves on to the deck itself beginning like most with the Fool. Going  through all 22 Trumps and 56 Minor cards deciphering the cards himself and  placing it in word symbols for you to figure out. Its not often one can  understand this at first reading. Many readings are neccessary, as well as  looking through many other books of Tarot and occultism to begin to unlock  Crowleys 'tombs.' You will soon find yourself not reading it, but referring  to it like one uses a dictionary. If one wants a fresh new look at what  Crowley is talking implying in all of his sublime wordiness, I highly and  strongly reccomend Timothy Leary's book &quot;Game of Life&quot; and  &quot;Info-Psychology.&quot; The former is a dedication to Crowleys work on  the Tarot told in Leary's style (which he equates evolution with Tarot),  while the latter is Leary's own neuraliterate book which ties in with the  former. The Book of Thoth is the most original book to date on the Tarot  system and highly reccomended for anyone looking to understand truly what  the cards mean, as well as Crowleyites and occultists in general. A  wonderful piece of work!the latter is Leary's own neuraliterate book which ties in with the  former. The Book of Thoth is the most original book to date on the Tarot  system and highly reccomended for anyone looking to understand truly what  the cards mean, as well as Crowleyites and occultists in general. A  wonderful piece of work!	2000-02-14
US	50971011	RWVE6G7LH6SGI	0871357380	500494196	Elektra Lives Again	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Lovely Work	Frank Miller's work from 1990 reviving an old character from the Daredevil series Elektra, who was Matt Murdock's girfriend that died in the series sometime ago. The artwork is great, however the story could use a little more punch. Somewhat reminds me of McFarlanes work in the early part of his  Spiderman series, although Miller certainly puts a more intellectual slant  in his books. Reccomended for Daredevil, Elektra and Frank Miller lovers,  however if you are reading the Daredevil series, I dont think this book is  a neccesity, for its sort of a book unto itself.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1E8IIJOXXPKJD	0863162584	147323665	Gestalt for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	On the Whole - A Great Place to Start	Gestalt for Beginners, (gestalt, which is incorporating the whole) is a great and fun book for anyone starting out in psychology or looking more into the Gestalt Theory which was made famous by Fritz Pearls. Author  Sergio Sinay made a accessible approach inderstanding Pearls theories as  well as close to being able to apply them. Giving a wonderful biography of  Fritz from his many downs in his life to his peak moments near the end.  Explaining the Gestalt approach in a lucid and simple style, I found this  book to be one of the best written books in the Writers and Readers  Beginners Books. Definately reccomended.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1YFJBF2DGEJNX	0863161162	825569512	Zen for Beginners	Books	3	4	10	N	N	A Good Intro	This work by Blackstone and Josipovic is an adequate introduction to Zen Buddhism with some nice history. When it gets into practice and study is where I stumbled. In the discussion of the koan, the authors read off a few  that I am familiar with, but then this one, which I found strange they  would include it:<br />&quot;One day he [Choa-chou] fell down in the snow and  cried out &quot;Help me up, help me up!&quot; A monk ran over and lay down  beside him. Choa-chou got up and walked away. (If you can guess who learned  what in the above situation, you are doing better than the authors). pg  100<br />I felt the authors should have left that out, for it made me  suspicious of the rest of the book. A fun book otherwise and good for  someone who knows a little more about Zen than just a beginner, for they  will have a more refined view.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R4M3BGEK00H51	0863160115	601361968	Sex for Beginners	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A Historical Approach	Author Errol Selkirk wrote the historical perspective of sex in literature. Also prescribing different beliefs of the different times throughout history from the Dark Ages to the Information Age. Running over  sex theories of Freud and Reich and loking into the works of Marquis  DeSade. A fun and easy book to read, however there are some dry spots that  one will come across. Reccomended to those reading the wonderful series by  Writers and Readers Beginners Books.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R3418GKU475WQ6	0863161464	428444935	Malcolm X for Beginners (Writers and Readers)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Black Prince	This book by Bernard Aquina Doctor gives a nice history of Malcom X, a black leader of the 60's. A leader of the Black Muslims as well as the Black Rights movement alongside (and many times seemingly against) Martin  KLuther King Jr. Aquinas lays the ground work by discussing Malcoms  childhood, who his father was which would prove to be pivotal later in  Malcom's life. Growing up poor and oppressed by the WW2 and the KKK among  others, Malcom fought his way to the top and demanded to be heard by all.  He was shot and killed at one of his lectures by one of the Black Muslims  in 1965. Reccomended for those interested in Malcom X's ideas, as well as  those curious about the black movement and some philosophies that went with  it.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1KSWXXTLCTRVH	0863162630	147519015	English Language for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Awesome Review of the Language	Possibly one of the best Beginners books I have read, Lowe and Graham give accurate and detailed information on the theories of how the English Language developed stemming from the ancestral roots of pre-literate  societies to Greek, Latin, Old English to the modern vernacular. Also  discussed is child aquisition of language, linguistics, as well as how the  body creates noises and how we hear them as words. Simply written, the  authors theron look into language and society and how it affects the minds  of the people, in particular race and sex. Many of the words used are  masculine forms or derived from patriarchal societies in which they  appearingly repress women. Thus man is the higher sex according to modern  day English. Whether or not the English language has repressed blacks and  other minorities may be subjective to ones beliefs, experiences and  knowledge of the language. Lowe and Graham do investigate whether the  language does indeed repress minorities, leaving, for the most part, for  the reader to decide if this is true or not. Well written, simple to read  and loads of information for those curious to know more about the language  they speak, with a solid bibliography for one to expand their readings.  Highly reccomended!	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1GRTY1C5EK182	0863161928	57351633	Kierkegaard for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Density Dispersed to Common Ground	I always found Kierkegaards work archaic in language and dense in thought. However, this book helped me work through that in laying the underpinning's of Kierkegaards philosophy in a soft tangible style that is easy for anyone  to grasp and enjoy. Perhaps this book will not propel everyone to  investigate further into his works, however it will leave the reader  satisfied that one has some base knowledge at hand. Donald Palmer gives a  nice presentation of Kierkegaard's work and life from birth to death, which  adds to the understanding of Kierkegaards philosophy. Definately  reccomended to the beginning student of existentialism and Kierkegaard.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R4WYW0473BIYF	0863162754	618998611	The History of Cinema for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Full History	I have read about 25 of these Beginners book by Writers and Readers, and have thoroughly enjoyed them, regardless of whether I liked one better than the other, or found one a bit more shallow. Unlike the other books, the  History of Cinema for Beginners gives a full course on the introduction  towering the other Beginner Books at 375 pages. Which is quite a book for  beginners. As a typical cinema history book would begin, at the beginning  with the pre-projectors of the Zoetrope and the MAgic Lantern. The from  Edison to the Lumiere Brothers. Once passing into the wave of cinema and  displaying the revolutonaries of Eisenstein and Griffith. The sorting into  sections, coutries and movements. This book covers not just cinema, but  also foreign cinema, America, Russian and just about every country that  released a film. Maybe a bit overwhelming for beginners as the  juxtaposition of movements, countries and styles may seem all too  confusing. The author, Jarek Kupsc, may have wanted to express his depth of  knowledge within the world of cinema, and came off a bit brash. Yet,  besides this detail, I found this text complete in its account for the  history of cinema. There is nothing new in this book that one will not find  in other cinema history books, however for the beginner, this may be the  route to go in the end.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R18013IYOQUPLB	0863161189	928443084	Nietzsche for Beginners (Beginners Series)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Nietzsche Petite	If you never have read Nietzsche, but are curious, then this is the book for you! Its not a Cliff's Notes, but its a concise comic story of the life and philosophy of Nietzsche. Written by Marc Sautet, this book will give  the beginner a tactile version of his work, as well as something which one  can have somne adequate and fundamental knowledge of who Nietzsche was.  Reccomended for the beginner absolutely!	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R14MCQNMB7OL0R	0863161847	951759572	Jung for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not the best Beginners Book	Jon Platinia's book on Jung is a fair introduction. The presentation and organization of the book overall is somewhat confusing while the writing is dry and unexciting. I found myself skimming over some lines either because  the writing was uninteresting, or the subject at hand. The life of Jung was  interesting, but once it moved into the psychological works, it lost some  of its steam. There are better Jung intro's available than this one.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	RW6X5HY6TK1F9	0863161669	41614211	Psychiatry for Beginners (Writers and Readers, 59)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Wonderful World of O.D.	David Brizer's book on the introduction to Pyschiatry is an interesting perspective which attempts to show Freud running about a psuedo-land of Oz. From the ancient days of boring a hole in ones head to let out the demons  to the current trend of shoving pills down ones throat. The author  definately condones the use of medication over therapeutic style treatment,  where medication is used in moderation and speculation. Basically this is a  crash course in the history and practice of psychiatry, which for such a  complex subject, you may think the author would take it at a slower pace.  Yet, as an introduction, one is expected to move to another book with more  detail and moderation. Reccomended for the curious and those thinking about  the field of psychiatry. Also, at this point the book is somewhat dated, in  which it needs to be up-dated.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	RBDX1AMWY97LE	1562827928	163271364	The Disney Villain	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Johnston and Thomas Together Again!	Anything by these two wonderful authors and amazing animators should be a must in anyone's collection. Yet, I am baffled that all of their books are currently out of print. I am sure one will not have trouble looking at a used bookstore for a copy of this. This book deals  precisely with what the title says: The Disney Villians. In their usual  classic and lucid style, the authors discuss the troubles they ran while  devising a villian. One that is wicked, yet appealing to the audience.  Going through their catalog of movies from Snow White to Aladdin, they  discuss in detail what a villian is all about, and how the villian relates  to the story, style and main character of each film. Whether one should be  more realistic, or have harder edges, or what kind of mannerisms will this  villian have. Highly reccomended for the animator and artist, as well as  the Disney book lover as these are presented so well. For the enthuseist,  which I also own, there is also a more expensive version of this book,  hardcover with a slipcase, signed by each of the authors and a print of the  filmstrip from Snow White.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1WOHGJ36UI0XV	086316157X	4208459	Philosophy for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Greaat Introduction	Because of the broad scope of philosophy, one does not know where to begin in the subject. This book is a great place to start for it gives a historical overview of philosophy and its philosophers. Starting from the  ancient Greeks all the way to Structuralism. Giving short and concise  prescriptions of different philosophers of all the major and most  influential subjects. From existentialism to the sophists to the age of  reason and phenomenology. Highly reccomended for those just getting into  philosophy and looking for a place to start.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	RLHB8ATHNXDM7	086316188X	168606323	Postmodernism for Beginners (A Writers & Readers beginners documentary comic book)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	A Dense Intro	Jim Powells well written book on Postmodernism is well researched and referred to. An abundance of information is here along with lots of theories through history and their theorists. Overall I found postmodernism  confusing, basically due to my own ignorance on the subject, however this  book brought me a little light on what it is that no one can explain, or  the very least, has lots of difficulty explaining it. Some of the ideas  presented here I found interesting, yet overall I was dumbfounded at some  of the theories and ideas - and still am not sure I know what postmodernism  is yet - other than to say I am an avid McLuhanist. If you are interested  in the subject, then this might be a good place to start.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R294F4AKYF33JX	0831780444	107108684	Anatomy of Animals: Studies in the Forms of Mammals and Birds	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Bissected Animal	Thompson's work on the anatomy of animals, which is not over 100 years old, is a classic study of the skeletal and musculatory systems of the wild life animals. Some of the artwork is pretty, but poor oganization that  makes the entire book less pretty to look at. The book shows foxes, lions,  bison, horses, birds and other animals in their raw forms, with commentary  beforehand, on the folds of skin, glands, nerves, size and proportions of  the animals. I believe the one aspect that is missing here is the animals  in motion. Thompson definately knew his material and his animals well, and  this book is certainly reccomended to artists of any kind, as well as those  who love to draw animals.	2000-02-03
US	50971011	R1HQUHQP2JB7HJ	0060191988	665059037	A Night Without Armor: Poems	Books	2	12	20	N	N	a TOUCHING memoir into JEWEL'S BOSOM	As I browsed through some 300+ reviews, i noticed it certainly is a love/hate relationship with this book. It is apparent who are the Jewel fans (including the obsessers), and equally apparent who is being as objective as possible although sometimes their loathing for a pop-poet is  evident. I find it all rather humerous though. Personally I found the poems  amusing (using the strictest of definitions, confer your OED) - instantly I  noticed all the titles of the poems are the first or second lines of the  poems. Although this is a poetic device, I would argue this being  intentional on her part. Reading these dry montages of her life, I would  take a drink of water and move on to the next to see what else she has to  say. I dont have a favorite. I am not a huge fan of poetry, so its a little  difficult for me to give an all together accurate critique, however I know  good language usage when I hear it (i.e. Nabakov; Joyce). It is evident  that her music is more inspiring for her as I feel her music and words are  clearler more expressionable, refined and poetic (her first album more than  her second).	2000-01-30
US	50971011	R3IIY45ZMIUQUL	0486250814	477822238	The Anatomical Plates of Pietro Da Cortona: 27 Baroque Masterpieces	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Some Great Anatomical Engravings	Remiscent of Andreas Versalius, however not as complete at only 62 pages. Pietro is obviously a lesser known Italian artist from the 1600's, however his work is marvelous in itself. Showing the anatomy dissected in pose the  muscles, organs and nervous system of the human body. No text accompanies  these drawings besides and introductin and plate names. For the price it is  well worth it for the student of anatomy and art, however if you have yet  to get Leonardo's work on the human body or Andreas Versalius, then get  those first.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R35KU6LND83TBH	0486202038	162539482	Animals in Motion (Dover Anatomy for Artists)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Indispensible Reference for Artists	Muybridges momumental work photographing animals in all different gates and poses and tests of ability. Using sometimes up to 100 cameras for a single set up to gain what is now the definitive guide for animators in understanding the motion of animals. It all started with a $25,000 bet:  Eadweard Muybridge and a friend argued whether all four of the horses  hooves leave the ground completely at any point during a gallop. Being  funded for the project, Muybridge proved to be the winner in saying that  horses do in fact leave the ground for a momentary second in their strides.  The book begins with an anlaysis of locomotion, going over the walk, the  amble, the trot, the rack (or pace), the canter, the transverse-gallop, the  rotary-gallop, and the richochet, along with the leap and buck and kick.  There are roughly 4,000 photos in this collection which claims to be the  largest collection of animals in motion. It features not only horses but  lions, deers, oxen, elephants, birds and kangaroos. From this development,  Muybridge not only discovered that horses gallop with no feet touching the  ground, but his discovery led to motion pictures, in which his photos is a  very crude version of cinema today. Later he designed a viewer called a  Zoogyroscope (or Zoopraxiscope) which, similar to a Zoetrope, was a  carousel with slits which you look through while it is spinning to give the  illusion of motion (or persistence of vision). Today these pictures are  looked at for a couple of reasons, mostly as nastolgia for one to have  wonder and excitement of this simple cinema, but it also is a great  reference for modern animators. In fact, for those looking at animation, I  can tell you that if you ask for an application to Walt Disney Animation  Studios, they will give you their requirements and texts, this will be on  the list. Highly reccomended for the artist, graphic, fine arts or  animation or anything else you can dream of.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	RZ57QMBT0WKBZ	0486225720	884975064	The Notebooks of Leonardo Da Vinci (Volume 1)	Books	5	176	186	N	N	Leonardo's Masterworks	This 2-Volume collection published by Dover wonderfully exhibits Leonardo's works with his sketches, designs and ideas. If you ever wondered what Leonardo thought, then these are the books to get. The book is set up  with the text in two columns; the left in the original Italian, and the  right side in the translated English. In those words are written of  Leonardo's philisophical ideas, lives of where he lived and his  surroundings, his theories on color, perspective, proportion, architecture,  foliage, physiology and so many other things that the Great One was curious  about. Througout the book and amidst the text are Leonardos sketches,  thumbnail sketches, workings of famous pieces such as the Last Supper, some  anatomical drawings - and in those pages you can see Leonardo's handwriting  which he tended to write backwards. The value and reference is endless,  especially for the artist. This edition is reprinted from the 1833 version  originally entitled &quot;Literary Works of Leonardo Da Vinci.&quot; This  is a 2-volume set, which is sold seperately, but for the price, it is so  worth the money. Highly reccomended!	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R3HLF6KZZQX3ZD	0486244830	559398843	Leonardo on the Human Body (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Leonardo's Masterpiece	Leonardo Da Vinci's anatomical drawings, due to his extreme curiosity, became one of his most profound works to date. Published by Dover from the original text 1952. The book is set up in 2 columns and broken up into  headers of different anatomical structures; either of bones, muscles,  ventricles of the heart or brains. The chapters are broken into systems:  nervous, cardiovascular, myological, osteological, respitory, alimentary  and others. Within the text there are italicized words. These are the words  written on the drawing itself, in Leonardo's usual backward writing style.  Some of you might be curious, beyond the drawings themselves to read what  Leonardo thought at the time. And from there is the authors commentary. For  those interested in anatomy, drawing, painting or anything in the art  field, this book is highly reccoemended, for it has limitless reference  value. I continually look at it for my drawings. One will also notice that  many of the &quot;models&quot; are of the same body or person. This is  because Leonardo asked a friend on his deathbed if he could cut him up,  dissect him and then draw him. The friend, of course, consented to this,  and so we have Leonardo's masterpiece. Highly reccomended!  Also  reccomended is his Notebooks, also printed by Dover.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R35DF3IR6UEXEV	1885440332	586731896	The Holy Bible King James Version Old & New Testaments: With the Classic Engravings of Gustave Dore	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Dore's Classic Masterpiece	This is Dore's Bible Illustrations with the complete text of the Holy Bible. I cant comment neccessarily on the printing by First Glance Books, for some of them I feel are somewhat light. However, this does not take  away from the beauty of the illustrations that Dore did in the 1800's. This  book is a republication of an earlier edition from the 1860's by Alfred  Mame &amp; Fils, which was a religious publisher. This book is not designed  for the art lover, but rather for the child or person who wants to read the  Bible at home. Although the cover states &quot;With Engravings By Gustav  Dore,&quot; this book is not a tribute to his work, so much as its only an  addition to the Bible itself, for there is only a blurp of his biography  underneath the publishers information. However, the book is hardbound with  a red cover and gold metallic pages, and a gold embossed lettering on the  cover. Certainly if you are a fan of Dore's work I highly reccomend this  edition (which currently and unfortunately is back ordered - check out  Crown Book stores), for I prefer the full text edition rather than just the  illustrations themselves, as I feel the text gives so much more life and  importance to the engravings.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R2KZAXN6IMZ969	0786860707	442451414	The Illusion of Life: Disney Animation	Books	5	119	123	N	N	The Animators Bible	Equivalent to a Holy relic, this masterpiece of a book has inspired me, not only to appreciate Disney's work, but also the animators and animation in general. If you are considering entering the animation field, in  particular working for Disney, then by all means purchase this book and  read it thouroughly. 2 of the Old Nine Men, Ollie Johnston and Frank  Thomas, wrote this book sometime in the early eighties. I read this in the  early nineties. I was such a good read it amazed. Not only what they were  writing about, but how good the writing was. It was humerous, witty,  profound and informative in such a way that is easy to retain the knowledge  which I found immediately applicable. By far the one book that has stood  the test of time beyond all of Disney's &quot;The Art of (Insert Movie  Here)&quot; books. Thomas and Johnston give step by step process of how  Disney complete a picture from the inception of the first idea to the  finalized product on Sunset Boulevard at the El Capitan. I cannot comment  on this book enough and cannot reccomend this book highly enough. Five  stars is the max, but I can say, of all the books I have read, no other  book has inspired me more in my readings, and no other book I treasure more  than this one. I say, the earlier edition of this book may have better  prints and color, but its not the pictures that matter completely (however  nice they are), its what the animators pass on to another animator.  Inspiration for motivation and creativity.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R1NUO8Q4FPPWGM	0486202046	806348946	The Human Figure in Motion	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Muybridges Masterpiece Collection	Eaweard Muybridges work after his success with Animals in Motion, logically would pursue humans doing tasks that would allow us to view humans in motion.With about 4700 photos in this collection, larger than the animals collection, you will see men, women and children doing just about  everything short of coition. All models are nude, running, skipping,  jumping, carrying pails of water. This collection by Dover, one of the  finest publishers around, is a great reference for all artists, especially  animators. As it can show them the muscles and movements and positions of  weight, balance, footing, head movements and expressions to gain an edge on  their drawings for more accuracy. The Walt Disney Animation Studios reading  list highly reccomends this collection for every prospective animator.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R9CHGV9DFV6M9	0486209687	569961316	The Illustrations from the Works of Andreas Vesalius of Brussels (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Medical Materworks	Andreus Vesalius, whom I speculate was a student of Da Vinci, shows the body in all sorts of poses, while in each page you see the body &quot;drips&quot; off its skin and muscles all the way down to the bones. Some masterful work and imagination employed here! Just marvelous! Taken  from his monumental work De Humani Corporis Fabrica, which is still used  today in the medical fields. Also included are plates from his Epitome of  the De Humani Corporis Fabrica and Tabulae Sex. Essentially this is only  the illustrations, but it also includes a lengthy introduction as well as  excerps from the original text. Highly reccomended to the art student and  medical student for this indispensible reference. Also a great book just to  appreciate some amazing art. Some of my favorite plates are of the nervous  sytem in which it is a full body posed standing upright. I imagine how  Andreas created this, and also realized how well he must have known the  body's anatomy in order to attempt such a feat. Awesome!	2000-01-28
US	50971011	RNNQW35DZPS99	1557093423	836053959	Walt Disney's Bambi: The Sketchbooks Series	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exquisite!	Unfortunately this book is out of print, and also I am writing a review under the 100.00 dollar version, which I dont own - incidentally I believe that version is signed by the two authors Johnston and Thomas. Moving on,  this book demonstrates the beauty, skill and patience of the artists that  worked on the film Bambi. It also shows their accuracy for realism as well  as sensitivity to nature and the subject as a whole. Nothing to read here,  but looking through the pictures and being in awe at the sheer beauty of  these drawings, it would equal the time one would take to read an epic  poem. I treasure this book for Bambi and the artwork has always held a  special place for me as I am always inspired when I look at the delicate  nature of the pencil lines in Bambi's neck and eyes, and his fragile legs.  So innocent and pure which is the child in me that likes to come out and  play. There is no finished work here, only pencil sketches of the  characters Bambi, Feline, Flower, Thumper, and many others. Highly  reccomended for the animation lover, as well as the animator whom will find  it a great reference.	2000-01-28
US	50971011	R2Z82TWB3B8FA7	0060900075	554528426	The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell	Books	4	5	8	N	N	An Interesting Book on Observations	Huxley's now classic book which gave inspiration to the rock group, is curious in that you are reading the explorations of one mans mind on mescaline. However, I cant say I found it the most exciting book I have  ever read. This book certainly has its place in ones philosophy library,  perhaps psychology as well. Popular with those who like to experiement with  mind drugs as well.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	RTZHQO4863VVS	0915811006	41314959	Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives	Books	5	8	10	N	N	One of the Most Inspiring Books	A semi-docmentary of the life of Dan Millman with his character Dan, a young athlete in college who stumbles across a most curious gas station attendant by the name of Socrates. This book, after reading it changed my life, as well as inspired me to become a Peaceful Warrior myself. That was  almost 10 years ago, but I keep coming back to it from time to time  reminding myself of some of the simple pleasures in life and to remember to  lose myself in the moment. The book unlocked my rigorous thinking to move  on and look at things differently and more uniquely. Definately a book that  is highly reccomended for anyone, but also for the beginnering philosopher  to change their ways of seeng reality and life.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	RWNG64SE5AQUT	0486269507	919627703	Tutankhamen: Amenism, Atenism and Egyptian Monotheism/with Hieroglyphic Texts of Hymns to Amen and Aten	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Good History of the Young King	E. A. Wallis Budge's book on the Egyptian King Tutankhamen was written in 1923, only a year after Howard Carter's discovery of the tomb. The book goes over the history of, not only Tutankhamen, but also of the relgion of ancient Egypt, being at this time Amenism and Atenism. A good portion of  the book also discusses the king Aakhunaten (his spelling, otherwise known  as Amenhetop IV. Amenhetop being the previous name at the time of  inauguration, if you will, in which the reigning religion was Amenism (thus  tutenkhAMEN, and AMENhetop), which was polytheistic. Once gaining having  his revelation that the Sun god Ra is the one and the all mighty, he  changed his name to Akhenaten, changing the religion to Atenism (thus  AkhenATEN). Many theologists, historians and anthropologists have argued  that Atenism is indeed the first monotheistic religion in history which  would predate Judaism. Many of Budge's translations of hieroglyphics into  the English language has been argued and disputed times over, yet his books  still makes for a good read. Can get dry at times.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2MPA7VQWXR1YX	1565845129	165535921	On Television	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Critique on Journalism	Bourdieu's book, which is actually a lecture transcibed, is a look into the world of journalism on print and on television. Print, now being rivaled by the television news casthas to follow the steps in which television provides the material and the print media has to be there to  create a uniformity in competition. If one veers, then people are unsure of  what to read, and given the times and the message Bourdieu is giving, I  would assume most would follow the TV news. The title of the book might be  misleading in that its more about journalism than television itself. The  author makes many profound obsevations as well as unveiling some of the  competition that actually goes on in journalism where he asks the question  &quot;Where does news come from?&quot; Answering quite plainly that the  journalists do indeed choose what is news, and what isn't. A good read, a  short book, however at some points dense and other points dry and  repetitive. Overall highly reccomended for those interested in media  theory.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2FSOB2858J6NH	048625237X	408591028	All About Lightning	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Well Done.	Martin Umans book of, what I would call an intro to lightning (if there is such a thing). I dont claim to be a scientist or know much about the weather, however I found many of Umans boo fascinating as his writing was clear and easy to understand. Some of the technical aspects were a little  above me, yet learning about the different kinds of lightning, what  lightning does and what is typical to expect from lightning I found  very...well....enlightening (sorry about the pun). I found it to be a fun  book that was a delight to read.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R1QCEEUM1D0KNT	0925417173	137950300	The Elephant Man: A Study in Human Dignity	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Humanity Above Deformity	Anthropologist Ashley Montagu's moving study of the now famous Elephant Man, Joseph Merrick. Based on the writings of Dr. Frederick Treves and the casts and photos of Mr. Merrick, Montagu tells the sad story of a boy who lived a horrible life due to his terrible dieases which grew progressively worse as he aged. Merrick frightened off practically everyone he came in contact with, while eventually settling in as a sideshow freak at traveling carnivals. Eventually being so disfigured and horrible, the bobbies would not even allow the show to go on. Dr. Treves, who discovers Merrick takes him in to his hospital to stay for the rest of his life which was a turning point, as now he would be looked on as a human, and not as a monster. More story than analysis of Merrick's disfigurment, however, leads one to realize the care that Montagu has placed in this tale. This book has also inspired a play, as well as David Lynch's film 'The Elephant Man' which I believe is a good adaptation. The movie puts a moral spin asking whether John Merrick's position as a carnival freak has not changed being in a hospital. That is, is Dr. Treves a carnival barker for the public media rather than for a small crowd paying to watch the traveling band of human curiosities. Montague did not comment on this point of view for he kept Merrick's dignity in tact. Also included are the original writings of Dr. Treve's as well as a few other papers on the Elephant Man at the time of his death.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2XQLLZK9LTAJ4	0877289255	514799193	The Book of Secrets of Albertus Magnus: Of the Virtues of Herbs, Stones, and Certain Beasts, Also a Book of the Marvels of the World	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Secrets Revealed of Our Natural World	A wonderful text for the magician and the student of occult texts. Michael Best and Frank Brightman who edited and translated this edition give a scholarly intro and many footnotes along the way which are insightful and  accurate. The Book of Secrets which has been translated many times in many  languages throughout the years. Totaling 5 books: herbs; stones; beasts;  marvels and planets. Each giving their mysterious compenents and each  elements use in magic. I speculated the use and reality of some of these  'potions' in which one can make dogs stop barking at you, or turn  invisible. However, one cant help but be intrigued and curious about some  of these findings. I would guess that, due to its alchemical nature of the  volume, that, like alchemy itself and the language of alchemy, it is  written in a similar format, one of which is written in code and metaphor  than for literate meanings and intents. Each one laid out in a clear and  simple formula, what the potion does and what to do to achieve those  results. Best and Brightman both argue the authenticity of the book, in  that is was probably not written by Albertus Magnus himself who lived in  the 1200's, but rather speculated to have been written sometime in the  1600's by a follower, based on the colloquial language of the text, where  many books have been attributed to Albertus Magnus for the purpose of  selling the book with a popular author. Definately a good book to add to  anyones occult and magick library, as well as those that study witchcraft.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R137WMPJ0OPTJ0	0060924152	174198300	They All Laughed... From Light Bulbs to Lasers: The Fascinating Stories Behind the Great Inventions That Have Changed Our Lives	Books	4	8	17	N	N	Light Science with Humor	Although I bought this book for a different intention, I still found the book valuable, in that is went over some inventions from the past that is in everyday use where at the time of its inception, it was deemed ludicrous. Light bulbs, fax machines, teflon, nylon, silly putty,  television, computers, video games and many more things that we today are  so at home with. Easily written for the young adult with a style that is  likeable.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2DVND9M2D3GPR	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Instant Classic!	Well, who could argue with the 2000 reviews before me. However, when one reads this they will know exactly how perfect this story is. Harry Potter and his unknown past abot his parents and his &quot;evil&quot; aunt and  uncle who raise him. Well told in an easy format for anyone to enjoy, kids  and adults alike. Potter being the most likeable character to come around  in some time. From start to finish, this book is one to be treasured for  quite some time. Reccommended for Everyone!	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R1P431PA05PQ4A	0679419454	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of Crichtons Best!	I read this some time ago when it first came and anticipated the film (which was highly disappointing). Crichtons mystery novel in the world of business and computers and sexual harassment. Tom Sanders who works for a  computer company, when an old friend, female friend, comes into play as his  boss. She lays down the laws that eventually work against him in this great  thriller that I found a vary hard book to put down. Well written, easy and  informative as well, which makes Crichton so intriguing is his factual  knowledge he places within the context of the fictional world. Reccomended  for mystery lovers, and those on the trail of reading Crichton.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2A23WYXV1CKNS	0802775624	793239388	The Joy of Pi	Books	5	16	21	N	N	History of a Mystery	David Blatners book on the history of Pi is inspiring and concise. Going through the history, East and West, where the reader the will discover all the errors in formulating this most mysterious infinite number. Blatner also discusses how to remember the number, if need be, as well as some  tidbits of information where pi has shown up, either in movies or books or  wherever. The book essentially avoids mathematical equations, although they  are displayed to those that understand them, the book is written so anyone  can appreciate the the work involved in getting to pi. A fun read and  reccomended as an introduction to finding the ratio of the circumference of  a circle to its diameter of a circle.	2000-01-26
US	50971011	R2UETE0O9CHLYC	0811801012	941753888	Star Wars - From Concept to Screen to Collectible	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Great Compendium of Star Wars Artifacts	This book by Sansweet is not only a good reference book, but also a good read. Informative write-ups on Star Wars from its inception to its popularity. Displaying sketches from the film and models. From there it  also discusses all the merchandising that came with the immense popularity  that Star Wars recieved from its debut. Fun to look at all the pictures and  old stuff and foreign artifacts from everywhere. Reccomended for the Star  Wars fan and toy lover alike.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	R3LBI27HELHVGK	0312141475	82922075	Surfing the Himalayas: A Spiritual Adventure	Books	3	4	15	N	N	Nothing to Write Home About	Frederick Lenz's work of a traveler and a Buddhist I found rather uninspiring as a whole. Some interesting ideas overall, but when I was done with the book I put it down and moved on. I read this book when it first  came out, and I never reccomended it to anyone because there are so many  other books that are better. Thats what I feel.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	R2PAUO5M709E0K	0060914025	986053688	Walt Disney's Mickey Mouse: His Life and Times	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Biography of a Star	This book, which is now out of print, published in 1986 by Harper and Row. Attributed to the authors of Hollis and Sibley, although on the book there is no credit other than in the acknowledgements. Regardless however, this  is a fun book posing as Mickey's biography from his earliest times in  Steamboat Willie and with Walt to the days of all his shorts and his  feature film debut in Fantasia. The book also discusses Mickeys appearances  in all the merchandising of the days, from watches to clocks to books to  comic books, music, ornaments and then the last appearance; Mickey's  Christmas Carol. Fun to read and enjoyable and sure to please any Mickey or  Disney fan.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	R1XTB2X8T3696I	1882723007	210436825	Embraced by the Light	Books	1	6	27	N	N	A Good Book if You Are In the Mood For Comedy	I can see why all the hype when this book came out, but a better look at this book will reveal that there is nothing metaphysical besides some visual and auditory hallucinations similar to what you would find in a  psychiatric hospital. Easy to read and intriguining no doubt, yet it falls  short in reality.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	RRO5U98RLWTWR	1854103652	800945356	2001: Filming the Future	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An In-Depth Look at the Monolith	Piers Bizony's great work in putting the pieces together of Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece 2001: A Space Odyssey. Probably one of the most complex look at any film that I have come across in full detail. The book  is in large format with slick pages and color photos everywhere to give you  a behind the camera view of the work being accomplished. This book is  highly reccomended for film students, movie lovers and Stanley Kubrick  fans.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	R1X0GX74ABYC8H	0812059980	456443459	Coca-Cola Superstar	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good fun History, but not Completely Accurate	Italian author Palazzini covers the Coca-Cola history in this short biography of a soft drink. Interesting and has fun facts, but from what understand the Coca-Cola mythology has been skewed in recent times. Yet,  this little factoid does not take away from the rest of the book which  looks at, with pictures, Coca-Colas merchandising effort from collectible  bottles, slogans, advertisements and anything else that can be sold to the  public. A good book for a beginner in advertising and an interest in  Coca-Cola, as well as the collector.	2000-01-20
US	50971011	R3UR11PKA762VJ	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Follow Your Personal Legend	Author Paulo Coelho wrote this magnificent and simple story of a boy and his dreams. His night time dreams and his life time dreams. The boy has a dream that there lies a great treasure at the Pyramids in Egypt. After  meeting with an elusive king, he sets on his journey to find not only his  treasure, but to fulfill his Personal Legend. Wonderfully told, witty and  inspiring. I felt I knew the character, the boy in his travels and  understood his trials as well as the people he came in contact with. Coelho  has written the classic story of the hero leaving his homeland to  understand the world he lives in, on a spiritual adventure. This book was  given to me as a gift from two close friends, and this book reminded me of  the simplicity in life and appreciating each moment that comes to us, and  treating each of those moments as an omen - to be fully aware that this  moment in indeed a gift.	2000-01-19
US	50971011	R27TSLJRFOZBCM	078686060X	791542848	Images	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Oddity Takes a Freeze Frame	Lynches artwork expressed here in Hyperions book entitled Images. Although I expected to see Lynch's artwork, ones that were in exhibits or from college, the majority of it is from his films. I can admit I have seen his  films enough to not want to see pictures of them (if I did I would watch  the movie again). But the pictures that show his work are highly unique and  from a certain point of view, quite disturbing. Whether they are  &quot;good&quot; art or not I am still undecided. Reccomended for Lynch  fans only, or those that versed in the fine arts.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R312JJMF40ZGNJ	0590476459	696088672	The History of Moviemaking: Animation and Live-Action, from Silent to Sound, Black-And-White to Color (Voyages of Discovery)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Introduction to the History of Films	This book is unique because its not just a book that gives a straight chronological view of the history of filmmaking. From Scholastic Voyages of Discovery series, in this book there are a set of stickers that you place  throughout the book. Flip books, fold outs, transparencies, this book is a  treat for anyone that enjoys films or for the beginner who is looking to  learn the craft. Unfortunately this book is currently out of print, but its  a fairly recent book so perhaps finding it will not be difficult. Not for  the knowledgeable in film art who might be expecting new information. This  book is designed for the beginner.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R3L7R3DT1I588H	0811423638	175007350	Movies (The Arts)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Short Intro to Cinema	The history of cinema wrapped up in some odd 50 pages by author Nigel Hunter. Nothing exciting or offensive here, just a straight up history of cinema. Although its currently out of print, its nothintg I would suggest  anyone highly unless it was in a bargain bin and they were just getting  into films.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R3R3H0BIF7TVK4	0385077254	715697163	The Velveteen Rabbit	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Classic Tale of Toys With a Heart	The classic childrens story of a new toy - The Velveteen Rabbit, and a little boys love for it. Also it was the story of toys and how they become real; when the boy truly loves them. Without giving away too much of the story, I do sense a sadness to the story whenever I read it. Perhaps its in  the writing. Yet, nonetheless, there is a classic story here thats been  told and retold many times, and this is one of the times that its told well  and honestly. Highly reccomened to children and adults.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R3B6XRCKI5KLBX	0262522330	844030736	Forward Through the Rearview Mirror: Reflections on and by Marshall McLuhan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Concice McLuhan	I think the reviewer below summed it well in his subject line saying &quot;McLuhan for the coffee table.&quot; Essentially this book is a list of one-liners and ideas of McLuhans. Snippets and paragraphs from books and  articles. Could very well be for the beginner, but without explanitory  notes (but with pictures); while it could also be for the person already  well versed in McLuhans thoughts. Either way, I found it a great book as I  find his thinking fascinating, curious and many times humerous. Well  presented in large paperback format with slick paper and color photos, this  book is a quick and easy McLuhan treat.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R1M6S31M2CGFJ2	0156465116	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Story That Changed Adults Into Kids	I would be hard pressed to believe that this book was actually written for kids at all. Who ever the audience intended, it is still a wonderful story about a boy and his small, small planet with a single flower. Wonderful at every turn giving the message that growing up we lose our sense of freedom,  fun, innocence, creativity and imagination. Highly reccomended for anyone.  This edition that I refer to also has some nice paintings that go with it  This book will definately be worth the time.	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R1OW51J8GNEHJ6	0679805273	689067271	Oh, the Places You'll Go!	Books	5	2	4	N	N	You Can Do Anything	Dr. Seuss' self-therapeutic book about YOU and the places you'll go. Leave the small town and enter the big city. See the big fishes and top cows. Moving along to a far away country that you never heard of are among the places you'll go. Flying in an air balloon to the edges of the earth.  Seeing all different kinds of animals you've never heard before are some of  the places you'll go. WIth your trials and tribulations conqueres and  conquested, you will win out , cause &quot;kid, you'll move  mountains!&quot; Oh, the Places You'll Go!	2000-01-15
US	50971011	R52HL7E1UQ082	0863162312	279473766	McLuhan for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book, 82)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An excellent Intro to McLuhanism	Terrence Gordon, who also wrote a book on McLuhans thoughts and life, gives a cohesive and concise introduction to this genius' work. Although the idea of McLuhan for beginners might be a contradiction in itself, one  needs to start somewhere, and I suggest this one to be a great start.  Citing from all of McLuhans works and some more obscure titles, Gordon  makes the impression that he is very knowledgable of McLuhan, as well as  his theories, being able to make analogies and modern day references for  anyone to understand. This book will also give you the appreciation and  depth of McLuhans work without losing the message in its compactness of  thought. Highly reccomended for those interested in McLuhans works.	2000-01-12
US	50971011	ROUPWD4DWY2B9	0863162339	637414763	Chomsky for Beginners (WRITERS AND READERS BEGINNERS DOCUMENTARY COMIC BOOK, 80)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Stepping Stone Into the World of Chomsky	Chomsky for beginners is great for anyone that has picked up one of his books then tilted their head sideways in a confused state of not understanding. It breaks Chomskys work into two parts: The Linguistic Era;  and the Politics and Media Era. Both are equally fascinating and well  written. Profound in its clarity, this is surely a book that will make you  appreciate Chomsky's thought, whether you agree with him or not. Chomsky  always believed in freedom of thought, and a disgareement is just as valid  and important as someone who agrees. Both should be heard. A good  springboard to reading his works and not overwhelming in comparison to  Chomsky's own writings (who is one of the most prolific writers today). I  highly reccommend this book who wants to learn in a nutshell what Noam  Chomsky is about.	2000-01-12
US	50971011	R237XGLYH33LVT	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	74	82	N	N	Man's Mistaken Identity	Neil Postman's book 'Amusing Ourselves To Death' is an excellent look at the world today (more accurately in 1985). He explains that there is no need to fear George Orwell's vision of 1984, but rather to fear an older  title of Aldous Huxley's Brave New World. One which takes away freedom, the  latter giving you all the freedom you want. Funny and witty, Postman gives  a top rate analysis of the current media (second to McLuhan). I dont see  this book as a prediction of any sort, but rather observing the direction  the media of print and television is headed. Television has been given so  much authority that it does not matter whats on it, so much that its on.  Postman declares that television has the power to do away with books by the  sheer hypnotic power that television has over print. And this, by being in  a trance and reclining in our sofas to and forgetting about the world (and  what the GOVT is doing) is just as fatal as the government getting involved  in every aspect of our lives. This book is a nice read with some  profoundness to it which will change your perspective on 1984, television  and the way you live.	2000-01-05
US	50971011	R25GR3FBWKBYWP	0394714733	712353764	Conversations With Adam and Natasha	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderfully Witty and Charming!	Famed psychologist Dr. R.D. Laing records conversations between himself, his two children (Adam and Natasha) and his wife Jutta. Brilliantly profound listening to the children speak their wisdom. The author points  out that nothing is tampered with in the conversations besides some  inadvertent ommissions. Also there are no after thoughts or annotations,  for he felt he would like that job to someone else. Funny and charming,  this book (although currently out of print)can make you appreciate children  more often, and listening to them a great deal more. A good companion to  Laing's 'Knots.' If you enjoyed this, I would also suggest Gregory  Bateson's 'Steps To An Ecology of Mind.'	1999-12-19
US	50971011	R2HTL2DJYDOM7Q	0893143227	788176253	Inner Lives of Minerals, Plants & Animals	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Learn a Whole new Understanding of Your Surroundings	A brilliant essay on the conflicts of man and his environment and how through our bout with nature it is difficult for us to see Nature has its own mind. Manly Hall explores, through various references of mineral, plant  and animal texts, that these elements, or forces all have consciousness. If  we are patient and observant, we are able to see that there is not only  universal consciousness, but also individual consciousness. Manly Hall  discloses other information on ritual practices, lores, simple  observations, and ancient medicine. Short as this may be, one may feel  compelled to dig deeper into the subject. One might check out anything by  Christopher Bird, or perhaps some references given in the this text.  Overall a great booklet, and really looks at nature in a new way allowing  one to appreciate and possibly see the divine harmony in nature and how  everthing, mineral, plant, animal and human are all interdependent.	1999-12-15
US	50971011	R2YLW0VFMBIK5Z	0472061666	115948422	Aristotle Poetics	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A must for screenwriters and playwrites alike	Aristotles Poetics is a classic in every way and still deserves to be studied and used, not just as a piece of literature. Although Aristotle expresses the highest standards a play should have it can be used as a  guide or premise in which to follow in thier own writings. Declaring that  Sophacles' Oedipus the King as the perfect play, which would be a good  companion to this piece, Aristotle demonstrates how every play should have  these attributes, namely a 24 hour time limit to disclose the plot and  mysteries of a story. Among other things, which would be too lengthy to go  into any review, Poetics stands as a classic guide and should be continued  to be practiced and be in any writers library.	1999-12-12
US	50971011	R1CRZHALY7PUL7	0671213326	377843034	The Art Of Dramatic Writing: Its Basis in the Creative Interpretation of Human Motives	Books	5	30	35	N	N	The Number One Playwriting Guide	Lajos Egri's magnificent account and demonstrations of how to write a dramatic play is exciting and accurate. Citing master playwrites as Shakespeare, Moliere, Henrik Ibsen, and many others pointing out their high  points and low points and how a play is to be constructed showing their  commonalities among them. Starting at the root, and logically building up  the story and characters to create a well developed play. Legri argues  whether the action or the characters drive the play, it would seem the he  believes that the characters are the driving force, however he also  recognizes that they are one in the same, that a well developed character  will alone create the action. Overall the book is presented well, easy to  read and one will have a solid working knowledge to begin critiquing plays,  as well as to get moving on their own stories. It would be advised to read  the plays Legri refers to throughout the book, it will become more handy  and points made clearer when he discusses those stories. Highly  reccomended!	1999-12-12
US	50971011	RNJ311OY00CWB	156184134X	920800451	The Montauk Files: Unearthing the Phoenix Conspiracy	Books	1	8	19	N	N	Many Questions Without an Answer	Well's personal account of exploring the mysteries surrounding the Montauk Air Force Base which he says has connections to the Philidelphia Experiment. Interesting at points, monotonous at others and pointless in  some areas. Laughably he takes along a psychic friend who seems to have all  these premonitions which dont answer anything, or lead the author anywhere  of significance. His exploration of the run down base was the highlight of  the book, but yet the author showed nothing of substance other than some  appearingly unexplained &quot;stuff.&quot; He gives the history of the  Montauk Indians, some history of Pheonix and the occurences there.  Discusses some of Wilhelm Reich's theories and life, as well as Johnny Von  Neuman's life and works. Then disbands for a few pages discussing everyday  symbols like the dollar bill, big busniess logos and pyramids. Which all  seems mute to the point. Poorly developed book with some lousy writing.  Although this is the first book on Montauk I read and the first information  I ever recieved on any mysteries occuring there, I walked away not knowing  anything more than that a &quot;mystery&quot; has occured.	1999-12-12
US	50971011	RS5AAYC5LPKWD	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Keep Waiting My Friends	Existential playwrite Samuel Beckett writes of the absurd in this tragic comedy of two old friends who are waiting for someone named Godot. Of course they dont know who he is, nor do they know anything about him (or  It), but nonetheless, they are waiting for him. Witty and charming  throughout, as well as non-sensical and of course absurd. Definately a  classic! This play also raises many theological and philisiophical  questions as to what Godot is, many speculate it is indeed God(ot?). It  would seem to fit. Highly reccomended for anyone interested in writing,  plays and literature as well as existentialists.	1999-12-12
US	50971011	R8NLBCBSLUUCK	0911226230	778604321	Trance-Formations: Neuro-Linguistic Programming and the Structure of Hypnosis	Books	5	27	30	N	N	You Two Can Learn Hypnosis!	Bandler and Grinder's lecture style book is easy to read with many experiemtns to try out. Learning the ways of NLP you can do anchoring, light or deep trance inductions, reframing, and other phenomenal  occurences. Also is the discussion of natural states of trance as well as  phony mind readers. Putting the reader in a light trance during the  intercourse of the book, internally the reader becomes unconsciously aware  of how to hypnotize anyone, and when practice, all unconscious information  becomes conscious. So then you know it all! Excellent book, well written  with humor, wit and practicality for just about anyone doing anything.  Bandler and Grinder have mastered their art to an easily accessible  practice. Highly reccomended. If you have not already bought 'Frogs Into  Princess,' Structure of Magic 1&amp;2,' Patterns 1&amp;2,' and 'Reframing,'  you may be advised in the course of reading to read it.	1999-12-12
US	50971011	RNZPA4KJH6ZDQ	0877283346	781642352	Book of the Law	Books	5	25	36	N	Y	Every man and every WoMan is a Star	Although I love Crowley's writing and enjoyed this book very much, I am hardly going to claim I understood The Book of the Law. Many curious phrases that were scryed by Crowley, or, dictated, in Cairo in 1904 stating  that the author is Aiwass (which is why there is no author of this book)  which took three nights to write. Whatever the other reviews below may say  might be right, for I believe it is vague enough for anyone to gain  something from it. If you like style in writing, then this book is a good  reccomendation if you disregard the content as being literal. If you are  curious what all the hoopla surrounding this book is, dont be shy, its not  a long book (50pgs), so it wont take you out of your way in the course of  your reading. Not a neccessity in everyones library, but certainly for the  occultist. My favorite line: &quot;He shall fall down into a pit called  Because, and there he shall perish with the dogs of Reason.&quot; (p32)	1999-12-11
US	50971011	R2RWVUUS9L7ONH	0394716094	681596631	Psychotherapy East and West	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Be spontaneous!	Alan W. Watts' excellent looks into the world of psychotherapy, in particular those dealing with schizophrenia, and a world of Eastern religion; Hindu, Buddhist, Zen, Tao. The main topic of psychotherapy the  author reaches is on the subject of the &quot;double-bind&quot; where one  is forced to do two things at once. And the only way a human can do two  things at once is to split into two people. Thus we have the psychological  break. Discussing the writings of such known authors as Norman O. Brown,  Wittgenstein, Freud as well as J. Haley, Erickson, Laing, Reich,  Watzlawick, and Greagory Bateson. Noting mainly that the result of  psychotherapy is that of the East in their liberation. Liberation and a  successful therapeutic treatment are one in the same. The individual is  free from binds, either double or singular, yet, now and again able to  relate to the others world, as well as the world of the self. Watts  &quot;dances&quot; about saying that to be therapeutic, one must also  initate a double-bind so the patient can struggle to break it by  &quot;being himself.&quot; In which, as the subject refers to, to &quot;be  spontaneous&quot; (which is in itself a paradox, as if someone were  controlling you to do something without thinking). Watts concludes in his  classic style discussing the liberation from the self in which words are  constantly changing no matter where you are going or coming from.  Vernaculars and lexicons are part of the moment, not something to be  restricted in time; like all things to be - live in the moment. Reccomended  for the theoretical psychologist as well as the Eastern frame of mind  reader.	1999-12-11
US	50971011	RFUT0VXT1VYKA	1874166374	677131740	Introducing Quantum Theory	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A fun history and theories of Quantum Physics	I can say off the bat that I had trouble with this book. Although I learned about Schrodinger, Bohr, Heisenberg, Einstein, Newton, Plank, Dirac, Born as well as their theories, I found it to be a demanding subject  for anyone. Although the book is an introduction, I would gather the book  presumes you have some previous knowledge of (probably findamental)  algebra, chemistry, thermodynamics and a solid foundation of QED.  Seriously, its a good book and well written, and made hard conecpts a  little bit easier to understand. Math has never been my subject so you may  have better luck with it.	1999-12-11
US	50971011	R2TGFXDW1I8HQ5	0916990206	204741952	The Magic of Rapport	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent Work on the Magic of Communication	Fabulous work on learning what rapport is, as well as how to establish rapport with just about anyone at anytime. The book not only is a useful guide for communication, but also acts as a great precursor to Bandler and  Grinder's work 'The Structure of Magic' (or Frogs Into Princess or  Trance-formations) as well as Ericksonian Hypnosis. Simple and well  presented, Jerry Richardson explains different aspects of rapport in a  clear and simple style with short and practicle chapters from simple pacing  to dealing with resistence. Teaches you how to read body language and tools  such as anchoring. An excellent book and highly reccomended for anyone  thats looking for a place to start in the field of hypnotherapy or NLP.	1999-12-11
US	50971011	RR30NKMV2ZL3G	0380015390	52596332	The Satanic Bible	Books	5	136	175	N	N	Satan: The Rebel	Its understandable how this book can upset people. Either Christians, pagans, occultists or whomever. However, regardless of the word Satan, I found this to be a good base to start out for anyone looking to understand  ourselves in a new way. You could probably go over the book and replace the  word Satan with God, or even with Your Own Name and the results will be  similar (if not more profound). From what I can tell, LaVey is not  presuming Satan to be a mythical figure from the Bible. Although he trashes  Christianity, I believe he does this because Christians have a human  conception of God, so therefore Satan must be human, which LaVey is showing  you how to change your perception of what Satan means. The book, to me, is  about questioning authority. To not let otehrs decide your fate or likes or  dislikes, but for your self to determine what makes you happy. Furthermore,  to question yourself as an authority. Who controls your thoughts, what  controls your thoughts and how did they get there? Control them! The book  has a masterialistic ring to it all, but I think the essence is in  questioning what authorities are controlling your life and to be released  from it. I think its irrelevant that he may have 'stole' rituals from older  Orders (as other reviewers yelled about). Crowley has done that, Regardie  and so many others have used rituals from the past and revised them to  their liking. Picasso said &quot;Good artists copy, great ones steal.&quot;  Its up to you to determine the level of ingenuity LaVey has. The Satanic  Bible offers some good advice, but can misconstrued as evil (easily so) if  not taken lightly and religiously. I enjoyed the book and the message LaVey  sends, for I dont see it as Satanic in the childish perspective, but as a  means to get the neurons firing and the blood pumping and to stretch those  muscles at the corners of your mouth upwards.	1999-12-05
US	50971011	R2NEEIIRHPAYA1	0880881011	604193324	Kabbalah: The Way of Light (Pocket Gold)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A Pleasing Introduction	An introduction to the Kabbalah, although kept simple, it remains as nothing mysterious. Rabbi Kushner gives some relevant examples to our time, however, I feel there is something missing in the whole of the study of the  Kabbalah. Nicely presented and displayed with pictures, this short book is  just an introduction that, because its so short, it misses many of its  aspects.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	RKXDX7ZYATFC0	0451524039	76700733	The Diary of a Madman and Other Stories: The Nose; The Carriage; The Overcoat; Taras Bulba (Signet Classics)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Oddity of the Crazed	A strange story of a mans internal dialogue and his day job, with the infatuation of a lovely women and talking dogs. This book translated by MacAndrew includes other stories beyond 'Diary of a Madman.' I confess here  I only bought the book for this story and that is all I read, based on  Nabakov's reference. The writing by Golgol interesting, yet confusing at  times and most certainly; odd, as the story is. Quite mundane in the  beginning, while the finale is quite a shocker. A worthwhile read, but  nothing to hop off your seat over.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R10HXEUKYCGAR6	0671888048	857519991	Oedipus the King (Enriched Classics Series)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Sophacles' Masterpiece	Oedipus has certainly become famous in both the theater as well as in psychology. To just know the Freudian term does not justify the greatness of this play. As Aristotle deems this the &quot;perfect play,&quot; which  still is valid in todays drama. This particular edition translated by  Bernard Knox also includes photos of ancient Greek artwork as well as a  head of Sophacles with an introduction to the history of the play. A great  read for literature and play lovers!	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R1Y7R8NCZZC22U	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is a Scary Place!	Orwell's classic book on thought control, mind control, body control and just about any kind of control you could think of, is a powerful book that many people hold in regards to as being prophetic. Time has passed and  other realizations occur, however, this book still stands as a monument,  not only in fiction, but in our understanding and use of technology as  either entertainment or mass media awareness, ergo; programming. With Erich  Fromm writing an afterword, which he cites many examples that displays  different types of utopias/thought controlled societies, discussing the  psychological aspects of a society that is shaped in such a way,  reminiscing from his own book Escape From Freedom. A classic book in every  way, and may best be appreciated with Huxley's Brave New World (confer Neil  Postman's 'Amusing Ourselves To Death'). Highly reccomended in any study of  literature.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R1ZPVJXWN0L1FW	0553212478	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Utterly Mad!	An awesome book written in the early 1800's. Completely different than I had anticipated and much more violent than I had thought. Mary Shelly's mind at the ripe age of 19 created this scary modern myth of a  &quot;monster&quot; run amuck among the townspeople, brought to life by the  one Victor Frankenstein. Classic in every respect and deserves a standing  ovation when you are done reading.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R16F6SJ9QDQZSU	0851705596	945122476	Blue Velvet (BFI Modern Classics)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Lynches Classic Under the Microscope	Assuming you have seen the movie, one might be fascinated to read a book on it. Atkinsons book might be the one to check out. Carefully detailed, this book discusses the major plots in the film, in relation to all its  subplots as well as all the inuendoes that are so common in Lynch films.  Not to mention the quirkiness of the characters. Overall, this book was  well told and making some plausible ideas about the strangeness of Lynches  world. Yet, I found it does not help me appreciate the film any better than  I did the first time, or the next time I will see it.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R2U1AFL2WAFS8M	0880880376	165779256	As A Man Thinketh	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Intro to Philosophy	A nice book for someone who wants to step out of the Chrisitian binds of philisophical thinking and move ahead (or across) to a more humanistic or individual approach, instead of worldly, and use a philosophy that has  practicality. This book does not neccesarily subscribe any specific school  of thought, runs it down in a very simple matter-of-fact manner which is  essentialy for any human to begin thinking for themselves. The aim of this  little book is to allow the student to become a practictioner in the  awareness of his surroundings, speech and actions and to learn, benefit and  change any process that one deems unacceptable, namely the individual. A  good book, to the point and reccomended for anyone looking for a change and  needs a place to start.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R277JYX7I66I1S	188886902X	215096937	The Medium Is the Massage: An Inventory of Effects	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Bio-Technological Scrapbook	McLuhan extends his famous aphorism &quot;medium is the message&quot; into the Mess-age of high technology, electricity, light and all forms of media past and present. Citing references from Coomaraswamy, James Joyce and  Eckhardt. Although not a scholarly piece like his other works, this  &quot;experiment&quot; of the printed picture is undoubtedly one of  McLuhans most influential works. McLuhan takes out the words and attempts  to create a &quot;televisionesque&quot; montage demonstrating the effects  of the media. Brilliant work!	1999-12-04
US	50971011	R2UU24C97JRWLE	0851704816	246717770	Wild Strawberries (BFI Film Classics)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Inadvertently Bergmans Bio	I was a little dissapointed in this book by the fact that the authors, Philip and Kersti French told the story of the film, then discussed it, then the background of the film. The discussions about the film were minute  compared to the rest. The background of the film focused majorly on  Bergmans life and what was going on at the time of production that may have  inspired his work, yet I dont see why one would not want to just go out and  read Bergmans own biography. I loved Bergmans film, which is what  interested me here, and it excited me to read about it, but the material  was dry and uninteresting. There were some good insights to the workings of  Bergman, but nothing to change the way you understand the film entirely.	1999-12-04
US	50971011	RX7CDEPV4JEWP	1561840440	331510375	Sex Magic, Tantra & Tarot: The Way of the Secret Lover	Books	5	20	31	N	Y	Sex and Magic using your Tarot	Hyatt and Duquette team together for a ritual using sex as the meditation in gaining insight, enlightenment, samadhi - whatever it may be. Also using your Tarot cards coupled with astrology to determine the time and place of  the ritual (conversation) of the Holy Guardian Angel. Spelled out by Hyatt  and Duquette, both learners of Israel Regardie, in an explanatory manner  how to achieve invocation through sex with a partner or yourself.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2EMD8Y1EGRVIE	1561840297	269973027	Enochian World of Aleister Crowley	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Summon the Angels of Enoch	Hyatt and Duquette put together a splendid ritual using Enochian keys and calls based on Crowley's essay. It explains the charts and tables, that Crowley 'hid' from view, in which, Hyatt and Duquette point out its mystery  and explain it in plain English. Somewhat confusing in how to set up the  ritual and its entire process, but overall its a clear and concise formula.  One should be forewarned, however, that performing these rituals is not to  be taken lightly nor to do spontaneously the moment finishing the book. As  the authors condone, read it, understand it and its implications: meditate.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2MC3ZSNZBIO1T	0911662499	63568086	Konx Om Pax	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Disvover What was taught at Eleusis	Possibly one of Crowley's most influential works, this short book of four short stories is clearly a master in prose, poetry, language and the elusive. 'Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law' is not the  subject here, but rather a symbolic IT is also a tell-tale of the fobidden  knowledge for those that know and those that dont know. As was written in  parenthesis; &quot;Explanatory notes in Latin and Hebrew for the Wise and  Prudent.&quot;	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R19WJQUTI4C4P4	0393310205	846556462	The Language of Change: Elements of Therapeutic Communication	Books	5	27	34	N	N	Principles in Changing Language	Dr. Paul Watzlawick's book of change and communication, largely based on the work of Milton H. Erickson, dives right into the theories of the left and right hemispheric patterns in humans. Then discusses the language  patterns of schizophrenics. These two major themes when studied and  practiced yields a result of change. Watzlawick understands both that: all  people have a set of language patterns; and secondly all people are using  their brain when they speak. Knowing this will able the reader to speak  effectively to a schizophrenic, or just about anyone in a theraputic sense  which will allow change in individuals. This book is easy to read with a  lot of information with a wonderful conclusion. Highly reccomended for  those working in clinical psychology or just looking to change your self.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2X1MMFDLLZM88	1561840114	34189284	Cosmic Trigger, Vol. 2: Down To Earth	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Information Double	This book of Information Doubling is appropriate in that he backtracks to Cosmic Trigger 1, also leading to new experiences which is a compilation of small stories dealing with the life and times of the author. Continuing  forward, R.A. Wilson argues Science and its theories as a contradictory  logic, discovers Korzypiski and Non-Aristotilean Logic as a means of not  only changing reality, but also seeing reality as it is. A step away from  Sirius, and 23's (although minute references are made, this volume focuses  on Earthly problems of secret societies, from Roberto Calvi, Vatican Bank,  and Joanne Hayes, as well as murders and suicides that are much bigger than  at first sight. Wilson covers lots of ground here and doubles the  information from the first page to the final page.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2310IA69FJ1XK	0393310213	454759163	The Situation Is Hopeless But Not Serious (The Pursuit of Unhappiness)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Foiled Again!	Wonderful prose that's tongue-in-cheek throughout, Dr. Paul Watzlawicks book is a sure side splitter. Citing from real life events that exhibits silliness in our everyday lives, the author demonstrates and prepares a  step by step process in which to fail over and over again and to be  unhappy. This is for those that are in pursuit of being unhappy. Like the  miserable and worried and the paranoid and the &quot;I'll say 'no' because  I can.&quot; After reading this book, I can happily say that I am unhappy.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	RUNLU8O4Y2R6K	091699029X	677124694	The Adventures of Anybody	Books	5	19	34	N	N	What Picture Does Not Belong?	A book about Anybody for Somebody and tales and trials of Someone looking for Something in a land that is Anywhere, but we all have been there, I am not sure where, but its Somewhere. Anywho, Bandler also tells the story of  Something in search of Anything that is Anything, and makes you wonder what  that Thing is and if its Nothing or Everything. Yet, upon finishing this  book, I found Somehow Something kept me reading about Anybody. Anyhow, its  a fun book that goes Nowhere and Everywhere for Anyone.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R19Z1AX956WA1D	091120623X	807464903	Raja-Yoga	Books	5	53	57	N	Y	The Illuminated Manuscript	Vivekananda's book, Raja-Yoga, is one of the best books on the subject; beautifully written in a clear and concise manner. Although, like most books on Raja-yoga which discuss philosophies as well as practices, what is  most beneficial about Vivekanada's book is his emphasis upon the effects of  Raja-Ygoa. According to Vivekananda, when one masters the powers of  concentration, then reads the experiences of the enlightened, then one will  then take on that same state. When one knows in which direction to go, and  can predict the state one is about to enter, then one has mastered  concentration.	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2CDAEIGGHBND9	0394717767	982119434	Knots	Books	5	34	47	N	N	Where to Next?	I like this book.  You like this book.  I like this book cause you like this book.  You like this book cause I like this book cause you like this book.<br />If you like this book then I like this book. If I like this book  then you like this book. If you like this book cause I like this book, Then  I must not like this book Cause you like this book.<br />If you are the cause  of my liking this book I must not really like this book. If I am the cause  of you likeing this book Then you must not really like this book. If you  dont like this book cause I like this book Cause you like this book, Then I  must not like the book  Cause you dont like this book.<br />If you dont like  this book cause I like this book cause you like this book cause I like this  book, Then I dont like this book cause you like this book cause I like this  book.<br />She thinks I bought this book cause she bought this book. He thinks  I bought this book cause he bought this book. She thinks I bought this book  cause she likes this book cause she bought this book. He thinks I bought  this book cause he likes this book cause I like this book. She thinks that  he likes this book cause I bought this book. He thinks that she likes this  book cause I bought this book. If she thinks that I bought this book cause  she likes this book and she bought this book, then I must not have bought  it. She must have bought it for me.<br />(R.D. Laing's poetry inspired by  schizophrenic thinking is a masterpiece in its own way. Wonderfully  exhibits the way many people think and have internal conversation that is  tied up in knots).	1999-12-02
US	50971011	R2P4GPM9L97Y81	1561840262	234569083	Monsters and Magical Sticks: There's No Such Thing As Hypnosis?	Books	5	7	19	N	N	Release Your Latent Hypnotic Abilities	There is no such thing as hypnosis, and this sentence proves that! If you dont believe me, just ask your self. Steven Heller and Terry Stele pulled off what magicians and heretics and witches have tried to do for centuries and were burned at the stake for. The accounts described in this book are simple, yet needs attention, care and awareness. There are some great exercises and practices in which you are not doing hypnosis. Heller and Stele both laid their cards on the table and explained that human nature cannot possibly be considered manipulation, brainwashing, hypnosis, or anything of the sort. It is language, bodily and linguil.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R2EZ4USJA4O1RG	0893145416	594818861	The Initiates of Greece & Rome (Adept Series)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Chock full of Ancient Esoteric Magic	A marvelous introduction to the world of Occultism and Ancient civilizations and their secret societies. Manley Hall discusses different mysteries such as the Eleusinian and Dionysus, as well as occult leaders of  Pythagoras, Paracelsus, Plato, Appolonius of Tyana, Virgil and some  relationships in architecture and theater. Well written in Hall's usual  wide range of references which add to the whole history of the subject.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R29ASXL85WRYM5	0938002015	826123714	Great Seal of the United States	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A Country Born of the Freemasons	A short yet involved essay on the meaning and symbols of the United States Great Seal, best known on the back of the dollar bills. These symbols are more than coicidence and have little to do with Americana and more to do  with A New World Order. 13 being the magic number in Paul Foster Cases  essay in which he defines, by gementria and the Hrebraic numerology system  which demonstrates the origins and Masonic influence of the founding  fathers of our country. Deeply imformative, unless you know the Kabbalah  well enough, one will have to slow down to take every thing in. Highly  reccomended for students of the occult and Freemasonry.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R3HL1WSJGGSNGI	0060963964	873121790	He: Understanding Masculine Psychology	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Good storytelling	Johnson's use of mythology and retelling the myths I find exciting, simple and understandable. He is certainly talking to the 'Everyman' where psychology may not be a prominant part in their lives, yet believes there  are men and women out there looking to change internally. Explaining the  Fisher King story from the Arthurian legends, Johnson demonstrates the  stories ability of how man, or the masculine aspect of the psyche goes  through transformation from a little boy holding on to mommy, to a man, and  what it means to be a man, which is not in the traditional '50's  'man-of-the-house' type.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	RA8MKK6LQWVZI	0893143626	562935606	Ten Basic Rules for Better Living	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Basic Indeed!	A good book, however it is basic as the title implies. The philosophy is simple and real. Manly Hall simply describes 10 things to do to live happier. Nothing esoteric or Oriental in this book, just straight clean  living fun!	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R12VLCUALXHHKX	1559500409	884109557	Principia Discordia	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Ummm, Waiter! There is a Fnord in my soup!	Funny, funny, funny!  Seriously though, this book of a new philosophy called Discordianism, Discordia, or Eris, whatever you like cause know one knows for sure. Not sure if they care either. You who read this are now  donned Popes of Discordia. Go now and spread the butter on your toast.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	RWN1ERTM8YXAW	0060963972	472087068	She: Understanding Feminine Psychology	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Very Enjoyable	A great presentation of the myth of Psyche and  her trials, and integrating that knowledge with his own Jungian analysis. Tells the story well and simple, explaining what the trials in the story of Psyche are  telling modern day women and men. The feminine aspects of the human have  been trapped somewhere from Ancient Greece to about 1960, and is now slowly  revealing itself. Johnson may have a good start and understanding of this  knowledge for those who are looking for more of a balance in their lives.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R3BI9ABYR9ET1N	1561840912	42240482	The Walls Came Tumbling Down	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A RAW SCRIPT	Robert Anton Wilson's screenplay which he attempted to have produced in a film is about the adventures of a scientist who Flashes back on LSD and experiences future memory blocks. Eventually time and space skip from one  place to another to an ending I will not reveal here. Entertaining and a  well written script, however, I can understand why Hollywood passed the  idea. Scattered somewhat, however visually appealling it may be (even to  the unconscious). More likely a better read, nonetheless, Wilson is Wilson,  so if you enjoy reading Wilson, then this Wilson will be good enough for  you.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R2M7IPJVFAWKK1	0060920637	46432306	Femininity Lost and Regained	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Lost we may be	I enjoyed Robert A. Johnsons book on the subject of psychological femininity. I believe he makes a good point in the beginning that this does not apply to females only. I am inclinded, somewhat to believe that it  implies more to males than females. Using archetypal myths of Oedipus and  the Hindu story of Damayanti, exploring both their contexts and how it  relates to the psyche, feminine. Not overly stimulating, however makes  adequate use of psychology and mythology 'ala Campbell and Jung.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R16IZYN8UQFAOJ	0916411613	841215049	De Arte Magica	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sex Magic Crowleana	Obscure in Crowley's classic style and not to be understood by just anyone, but rather of initiates, probationers, etc. He describes the purpose of the ritual as well as what to do setting it up and what to do  during the ritual. Not for the restless or the restful, but indeed for all  those that know - or, by Crowley's standards - think they know. Awaken thy  sleep, not to the right, not to the left, but the middle and do what thou  wilt.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R3GJ5W7KPZBZ3F	0062504363	622555736	We: Understanding the Psychology of Romantic Love	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Clear and Concise Story of Love	Robert A. Johnson sets up a wonderful analysis of the Arthurian romance of Iseult and Tristan. Each chapter tells a bit of the story, then the author goes into a dialogue on the implications of the story. Also citing other  more obscure examples to demonstrate what 'true' love is and what is the  'heat of the moment' love. Scraping the surface of some issues on social  commentary in which some of the problems of marriage and relationships in  general derive from out not-understanding of what love is. Robert Johnson's  best work to date, as well as one his most lengthy titles (by comparison).	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R2Q4ZFMY1P93BN	0893143820	937753925	The Tarot: An Essay	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Concise History of the Book of Thoth	A short essay on the history of the Taort, speculated to mean literally 'Book of Thoth' or 'Dogma and Ritual of Mercury.' Manley Hall is speculative on many accounts of the origins of the Tarot, whether Egyptian,  Gypsie or Eastern. The last 30 pages are pictures of his own Tarot deck  designed by him and Augustus Knapp. A nice set, and worth getting  themselves, but it seems to take up space as well as a little self  advertisement. Also included is pictures of the complete deck of Mantegna  which is nice to see.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R2EU4TK4Z0V9NA	0893143790	910053983	The Story of Christmas	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Christmas is not just for Christians!	Well, Christmas comes from Christ Mass, but thats another issue. However, Manly Hall puts together his historical knowledge of the ancients and explains that Christmas, although its meaning has not changed much, its  practice has. Throughout the ages the day of December 25 has been  celebrated by most religions, pagan or otherwise. Short and compact, this  book will give you another light of the Christmas origin and its message.	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R176XI4UFFDF02	1561840033	5388971	1: Cosmic Trigger I: Final Secret of the Illuminati	Books	5	7	11	N	N	The Beginning of A Saga	Personal as this may be, R. A. Wilson's account of the spiritual, supernatural, occult, magic, whatever term you want to give it, is an exciting journey through time and space as we venture through wormholes,  blackholes and kaleidascopes as well. 23's and Sirius is the focus, while  contact with aliens and revelations of Horus with a touch of ESP are all  inclusive in a synchronistic style. Classic Wilsonian literature!	1999-11-28
US	50971011	R3B50A9X87OIB1	0679723005	83678771	The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are	Books	5	8	14	N	N	The Seeds of Evil Grow Weeds	Watts' classic book from the sixties is, what I would call, a beginners guide to realism. Not in a frame of artwork, but in seeing reality more interestingly and indiscriminately. The author teaches, in his classic  almost inadvertent style, to turn the world upside down and see it as being  right side up. The structuring of our eye loosen up when we change the  grids of longitude and latitude of mapping our world into a freeform  chaotic wonder. The simpleness of every moment.	1999-11-27
US	50971011	R2CO9V4H9U5Z6P	0394716655	441098939	Does It Matter?	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Inspired by Matter	I particularly love Alan Watts' play on words in his titles, in which this case he does so well. A common phrase 'Does It Matter' is the subject in which the author explores and expresses his ideas of materialism in a  materialistic age (more so now than in his own time - appearingly).  Discussing his own perceptions in which the way things could be in order to  get full advantage of living and being free from oneself as well as  anything material. Yet, also expressing the notion that materialism, in all  its greed and desires, can be viewed as spiritual and indeed be part of  every persons awakening to real life.	1999-11-27
US	50971011	R20ALCCABC98VA	0062507540	29756441	Owning Your Own Shadow: Understanding the Dark Side of the Psyche	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Simple and Petite	Robert A. Johnson, a Jungian analyst wrote a self-help book (I would hesitate to call it psychology) on discovering your shadowside, or the being not in your everyday awareness. Some call this demons, others  reflections or perhaps repressed emotions or &quot;drives.&quot; Whatever  the case may be the book is a good introduction to Carl G. Jung himself on  the subject of shadows, as well as helping oneself understanding and  becoming aware of their own shadows that they may have repressed some time  ago. Overall a short and sweet book.	1999-11-27
US	50971011	R3QV63KL44JVPY	0140211578	715925771	Sanity, Madness and the Family: Families of Schizophrenics (Penguin psychology)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Madness and Sanity is Bio - Logical	That is to say there are logical means to schizophrenia, and nothing that confers to a physical disability. An amazing study of eleven families and the children who are hospitalized because of their &quot;illness&quot;  (incidentally noted, they are all female patients). Dr. Laing and Dr.  Esertons account of schizophrenia all points to the facts that this mental  illness is not a physical impairment, but a distrust in a persons reality,  through communication, through insecurity of beliefs and senses.  Schizophrenics choose logically and intelligently under the confines of  family life with the parents (who are more delussional than the patient).  Although this book is primarily a psychological study, it reads like a  novel.	1999-10-03
