US	50987513	R1P8GVYEZJ7Z55	0231127960	935557439	The Case for Islamo-Christian Civilization	Books	4	30	33	N	N	How a common experience drove two civilizations apart	In recent years media attention for the Muslim world has increased tremendously and many reputable scholars of Islam have joined the flurry of publications that is released month after month. With Following Muhammad -- a thoughtful essay on Islamic spiritual traditions -- Sufism expert Carl Ernst has attempted to counterbalance the torrent of books on political radicalism. Bernard Lewis, the nestor of Islamic history writing, took the easy way and jumped the bandwagon of Islam-bashing by rehashed his 1999 Vienna Lectures Series under the title What Went Wrong? <br /> <br />Partially in response to Lewis, fellow-historian Richard Bulliet of Columbia University dusted off some of the manuscripts in his archives and then elaborated further on these earlier musings. His The Case for Islamo-Christian Civilization consists of four essays and, although the first one was drafted more than thirty years ago, they have been reworked into a remarkably consistent argument. <br /> <br />Refashioning that earliest essay, from which the book has taken its title, into a rebuttal of Huntington's Clash of Civilizations thesis, Bulliet explains that there are more similarities than differences between Christendom and the Muslim Middle East. The conversion processes during the earliest centuries shared many features; in particular the slow percolation of the new religions into the lower social strata. As contacts became more intensive during the middle periods, it is true that mutual hostility increased but even then peaceful exchange was more common than violent interaction. Only from about 1500 did the two civilizations go their separate ways, but - in an explicit rejection of Huntington - Bulliet observes that this was more due to accidents of history than an inherent necessity resulting from irrevocably different outlooks. <br /> <br />The second chapter \\"What Went On\\" is a correction of Bernard Lewis' negative assessment of Islam as a failed civilization. Bulliet attributed this misreading to the influence of 20th-century western history on Lewis' own worldview. Having been very much part of the effort against totalitarianism during WWII and the Cold War, Lewis fails to appreciate that a Muslim world fighting for independence from colonialism had very different issues on its mind. In his detached survey of Islamic political history, Bulliet consistently argues that, throughout the centuries, safeguarding justice and opposition to tyranny was the constant preoccupation of a religious establishment that tried to remain aloof of politics. When either indigenous despotic regimes - fashioned after the absolute monarchies of early modern Europe (!) -- or imperialist outsiders managed to take over the main power centers in the Muslim world this counterweight was successfully repressed. However, an unintended side-effect of the ensuing modernization efforts has been the rise of alternative `religious authorities' which have started challenging these political constellations. <br /> <br />The next chapter is more of a self-evaluation, in which the author critically examines the misconceptions that are still prevalent in his academic field of Middle Eastern studies. He illustrates this by critical assessments of three seminal works published in the first decades after WWII, when area studies were first introduced in the US. Tied up in the `development theory paradigm', scholars singled out only those congenial to this theory as acceptable representatives of and spokespersons for the Muslims. Those proposing alternative approaches to the challenges of a rapidly changing world, by drawing on the treasure house of their own cultural legacy, were greeted with suspicion and hostility. <br /> <br />Based on his own studies of medieval Islam, Bulliet extends some of the prevailing trends of that past into the future.  In his closing arguments Bulliet shows that throughout history the most creative responses to the challenges, which the Muslim world had to face, came from `the edge'; meaning the often heterodox strands of thought and practices shunned by the power centers - and not infrequently emerging at what were also the geographical peripheries of the Muslim world. In our contemporary world, Bulliet sees three such edge situations that could become significant for the future: the `diaspora' Muslim communities of Europe and America; the democratically oriented political parties in certain Muslim countries; and newly formed institutions of higher Islamic learning. With regard to the latter, the writer specifically mentions Indonesia, where many Muslim scholars of Islam holding western degrees occupy key positions at Islamic universities and in the religious affairs departments. Interestingly, one of them is a graduate of Bulliet's own Columbia University. In his own writings, the rector of the Syarif Hidayatullah State Institute for Islamic Studies in Jakarta, Azyumardi Azra, has also stressed the important role played by Muslim intellectuals of the geographical periphery in shaping the intellectual discourse of Islamic reformism. <br /> <br />Bulliet's long-range historical perspective is a welcome contribution to the current discussions on the role of political Islam in the contemporary world, a discussion that has remained too limited in scope because of  the myopic perceptions of those focusing only on the most spectacular excesses that have recently unfolded on the world stage. <br />	2005-03-15
US	50987513	R3H3AUN52IDRM	0197200028	565684034	Modern Muslim Intellectuals and the Qur'an (Qur'anic Studies Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Breaking ground for new approaches to Islamic Studies	In the course of the 20th century Muslim thinkers have become polarized between two extreme types: staunch defenders of tradition, who in their rejection of Western modernity assume a reactionary stance and try to recreate a society based on the earliest Muslim community of the 7th century; and, on the other side of spectrum, the advocates of a radical remolding of Muslim (Islamic) tradition. <br /> <br />In this volume, editor Dr. Suha Taji-Farouki brings together ten intellectuals of this latter tendency. Although their perspectives differ considerably, their ideas have a number of features in common. As the foundational text of Islam, they take the Qur'an as a source of ethical guidance rather than a specific code of law. They present their own projects as contributions to a renaissance of Islamic intellectual life. In their approaches these scholars often try to internalize contemporary intellectual trends and critical methods derived from Western philosophy and academia. <br /> <br />Among those treated in this book are giants like Fazlur Rahman and Mohammed Arkoun, as well as lesser known, but no less interesting, writers like the late Sadiq Nayhum from Libya and Iran's Mohamad Mojtahed Shabestari. Others include the Egyptian Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd, whose text critical and literary approach of Qur'anic studies made him a virtual `outlaw' in his own country, forcing him to go into exile in the Netherlands in 1995. The Tunisian historian Mohamed Talbi and Indonesia's Nurcholish Madjid also deserve special mention. <br /> <br />The editor must be congratulated for including one woman:  Amina Wadud. The latter is one of those rare female intellectuals daring to speak out on behalf of the underprivileged and marginalized. Apart from Morocco's Fatima Mernissi, few Muslim women have succeeded in establishing such a high public profile and - at the same time - giving rise to so much controversy. Amina Wadud is the black Muslim equivalent of Angela Davis. Apart from engaging in feminist rereadings of the Qur'an, she also positions herself explicitly as an African-American Muslim and finds herself often in a tense stand-off with (male) Muslims from the Middle East. <br /> <br />In his essay on the pioneer of the Neo-Modernism (also referred to as Islamic `Liberalism', `Contextualism', `Substantialism' or `Transformationism') Fazlur Rahman,  Prof. Abdullah Saeed -- a Maldivian scholar currently working as a professor of Islamic Studies in  Australia -- provides the setting for many of the other contributions. Fazlur Rahman's ideas have inspired the writings of innovating intellectuals operating in the wake of his groundbreaking scholarly work . Fazlur Rahman was a critic of the `dictation theory' and one of the first advocates of the notion that revelation was determined by the socio-historical context in which Muhammad lived. While its source lay in the transcendent, the actual utterances were informed by the psychological process the Prophet was subject to. Such a view was nothing short of revolutionary. Other liberating ideas introduced by Fazlur Rahman are the differentiation between the ideal and contingent as it impacts on law; the Qur'an's primary objective of social justice; and its status as an ethical guide rather than a legal code. <br /> <br />One of Indonesia's most important Muslim intellectuals, Nurcholish Madjid (affectionately known as `Cak Nur'), was a student of Fazlur Rahman at the University of Chicago. Much of his work written in the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s is heavily influenced by his mentor's teachings. A key notion, for example, is the positing of `contextuality' as the primary hermeneutical principle. Insisting on the inherent contingency of the rulings of traditional Islamic jurisprudence or `fiqh', Nurcholish makes a case for accepting that many legal formulations are confined to a specific time and specific circumstances. A second hermeneutical axiom is that the circumstances of the interpreterhimself will determine how texts (including the Qur'an) are understood. Building on these principles, Nurcholish formulated his political adage: \\"Islam, `yes', Islamic parties, `no'.\\" <br /> <br />Coined in the jargon of postmodernist text criticism and other literary exegetical methods, Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd's thought makes a distinction between divine inspiration and prophetic speech that is reminiscent of Fazlur Rahman's. Much of Abu Zayd's work is also influenced by another pioneer of the literary study of the Qur'an: Amin al-Khuli, as well as Muhammad Khalafallah and - interestingly enough - Sayyid Qutb, who is also an important source of inspiration for many radical Muslim militants and `fundamentalists'. <br /> <br />Access to the work of the French-Algerian `chercheur-penseur' Mohammed Arkoun is also often hindered by his use of highly specific idiom and arcane terminology. Although his thought lacks an overarching systematization, his lifelong project has been the complete overhaul of Islamic studies. Arkoun proposes an `applied Islamology' in which the anthropological approach features prominently. Most of his writings have dealt with these methodological questions rather than the detailed engagement with the Qur'an text, although in studies like Lectures du Coran he has made very important contributions to the critical examination of the status of the Qur'an as text and shaper of a new cultural-religious discourse. <br /> <br />Apart from these explorers of methodological approaches, the essays on figures like Mohamed Talbi and Mohamad Shahrour show that contemporary Muslim thought also leaves room for a more personal engagement with scripture, highlighting how the text speaks to the believers. <br /> <br />This volume is a valuable contribution to a growing body of innovative studies of the religious and cultural heritage of the Muslim world. With publications like this one, the Institute of Ismaili Studies in London, where the editor did much of her workas a research associate, puts itself on the map as an increasingly more important organization in the field of Islamic studies. <br />	2005-02-14
US	50987513	R1V7NIBYK6ZPXG	0700715053	844822908	Debates on Islam and Knowledge in Malaysia and Egypt: Shifting Worlds	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Of Muslims, Islamists and Islamizers	Sometimes erudition gets in the way of an author's focus on his or her topic. That is what seems to have happened to Mona Abaza, when she wrote what was apparently intended as a comparative study of the approaches to the Islamization of Knowledge in Malaysia and Egypt. A social scientist connected with the American University in Cairo, Abaza has not only extensive research experience in her native Egypt and Malaysia, of course, but she has also worked in Germany and the Netherlands. In addition to that her writing betrays familiarity with French literature and an impressive knowledge of general intellectual discourse in the Muslim world, as well as the debates in the field of Islamic Studies. The flaw of Debates on Islam and Knowledge in Malaysia and Egypt is therefore certainly not a lack of data, but quite the opposite. Although the book's title suggests a sufficiently narrowed-down theme, Abaza seems to have been unable to fight off the temptation to include everything she came across during her investigations.    The author's musings on Islamized science, the juxtaposition of Egyptian and Malaysian cultural landscapes, and the position of Muslim intellectuals in a globalizing world are all suitable topics for the introductory reflections of part I. But it is somewhat of a mystery why Abaza allows hers story to derail in the second part, dedicated to \\"Biographies and Travelling Ideas\\".  Why include Isma'il al-Faruqi, a Palestinian who taught in America, in a book on Egypt and Malaysia? In the same section we find a chapter with the title \\"Henry Corbin, the absent centre\\", only to discover that it is not so much about this immensely profound French philosopher-mystic, but the exiled Iranian perennialist S.H. Nasr. This is not to imply that these thinkers are not relevant, but Abaza could have better prioritized what should be in the book and what not. Indeed, the section also contains two interesting chapters comparing the intellectual output of Malaysia's al-Attas/Alatas brothers, but it sorely misses a chapter on an influential Egyptian intellectual.    In the third and final part, Abaza appears to have rediscovered her bearings. She opens with a lucid exposition on the Islamization of Knowledge debate in Egypt,including appropriate cross-references to examples of institutional cooperation and intellectual exchange between Egypt and Malaysia. In \\"Cultural Invasions\\" she puts the anti-Orientalist onslaught on Western scholarship concerning Islam into a proper perspective, with discussions of the viewpoints of Sadiq al-Azm, Georges Anawati, and Georges Tarabishi - who have charged those jumping on Edward Said's bandwagon of throwing away the child with the bathwater. \\"Counter Images: Secular Responses\\" certainly  is the book's strongest chapter. Here Abaza subjects the proponents of the Islamization of Knowledge project to a very critical examination, not shying away from strong characterizations like `charlatans'. Identifying the `Saudization' of many Muslim societies under the tandem influence of 'Salafi' thought and petro-dollars, she presents the work of the late Zaki Nagib Mahmud as a welcome exception to the rule, although he was also not able to avoid some of the simplifications he accused the Islamizers of. Abaza has also taken care to include a contemplation of gender issues in the Arab world and in Malaysia. Apart from observations on the 'usual suspects', like Nawal al-Sa'adawi and Fatima Mernissi, the author also shares some of her own experiences with  the 'Sisters of Islam' - a women professionals group from Malaysia.    Finally, the book's `Closing Remarks' are just that; Abaza does not present a coherent round-up of the theme(s) she has explored. Probably this would have been impossible anyway, because of the wide range of topics she has chosen to address. Briefly touching on the impact of the Iranian revolution, Said's Orientalism critique (again), and Leonard Binder's seminal study of Islamic Liberalism, her remarks regarding the connection between Islamization of Knowledge and the earlier mentioned influence of Saudi financial prowess are more to the point. Abaza also returns to the anxiety among young Muslim scholars regarding the dim prospects that international academia holds for them. In relation to this, she could have elaborated a bit more on the interesting distinction she makes between 'cosmopolitans' and 'transnationals', as well as the phenomenon of intellectuals turning into `bread writers' for the Arab press. The same applies to some very valid observations concerning the alleged anti-rationalist stance of many Islamizers of Knowledge and the apparent similarities that can be detected in certain strands of Western metaphysics and spirituality. After drawing attention to the polemical tone of the controversial Egyptian scholar Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd's charges that both moderate and extremist Islamizers/Islamists demonize all their intellectual opponents without discrimination, Abaza's final lines express the hope to have illuminated some of the diversities in an apparently very homogenized Islamic discourse.    In spite of the earlier mentioned shortcomings, Mona Abaza's engaging style provides the reader with plenty of stimulation for further readings in contemporary Muslim thought.	2004-08-30
US	50987513	R2BDQKJONZDLID	1400030455	868983665	The Two Faces of Islam: Saudi Fundamentalism and Its Role in Terrorism	Books	1	31	55	N	N	Overkill	In line with its title, the author of this book comes himself across as a bit of a Janus Head: an adherent of Sufism and religious pluralism on the one hand, a staunchly patriotic political conservative, on the other. The Two Faces of Islam is not the work of a detached analyst of political Islam, but an unabashed diatribe against 'Wahhabism' and the Saudi role in promoting this strand of Islam. Here lies the main weakness of this book: although Schwartz provides us with many interesting facts and noteworthy observations regarding the rich pluralist heritage of Islam, he is so selective in his argumentation against Wahhabism that it undermines his credibility.<br />For example, in one and the same chapter, &quot;Sword of Dishonor&quot;, Schwartz claims that the US should let Uzbek president Karimov get on with exterminating the Muslim extremists who are terrorizing his country, but that Washington should protest on every occasion against Russia's repression of the Chechens. His argument for this inconsistency: The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Hizb al-Tahrir are of a distinctly Wahhabi signature and thus a menace to Central-Asia's centuries-old pluralist Islam. Therefore they must be routed. What are the guarantees that Karimov will only target 'Wahhabis' and leave 'Traditionalists' alone? Chechnya's Sufi tradition, on the other hand, has supposedly survived intact and its representatives are in the vanguard of the struggle against a Russian-Orthodox threat. Since the assault on a Moscow theater it can hardly be denied that extremism has also taken root in Chechnya.<br />Schwartz is so eager to lump all Sunni extremists together that he refuses to believe Bin Laden is anti-Riyadh. It is all a ploy to mislead the West. Yet at the same time he engages in what amounts to an apologetics of Khomeini and the Iranian revolution. Because he was educated as a philosopher and initiated in 'Irfan or gnosticism, the Ayatollah does not fit into Schwartz' paradigm of militant Islam. Instead Khomeini is credited as a &quot;standup guy&quot; who at least makes no secrets about his anti-Western views. Anti-Khomeinism in the West was fed by the Saudis because of their vehement anti-Shi'ism. Schwartz goes even further, Khomeini is implicitly dubbed a tolerant pluralist because he taught philosophy, was mystically inclined and wrote poetry in the same vein as the great Sufis. In furthering the cause of Sufism Schwartz could have selected a more convincing argument.<br />In making his case against Saudi-sponsored Wahhabism, Schwartz is further hampered by having never visited the Kingdom and the use of secondary sources only. His selection of these is also questionable. It features Said Aburish but not Mamoun Fandy's excellent study of Saudi dissidents. Schwartz reviles explorer and royal confidant Harry St. John Philby although there is no evidence in the bibliography that he has read any of Philby's books or even Elizabeth Monroe's biography. T.E. Lawrence, however, is presented as a pure idealist, while certain studies shed a very different light on his persona, revealing both a deeply disturbed psyche and political duplicity.<br />This selective use of material also explains his erroneous assessment of the succession question in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi ambassador to Washington, Prince Bandar, and former intelligence chief (now envoy to London), Prince Turki al-Faisal, are certainly high profile figures. But in the line-up for the throne the governors of Riyadh and the oil-rich Eastern Province -- one a full brother, the other the oldest surviving son of ailing King Fahd -- figure more prominently, yet their names - and those of some other key contenders -- are not even mentioned.<br />His report of the Najran uprising in early 2000 fails to notice that the Shi'ites clashing there with security forces are Ismai'ilis (Seveners), while those in the Eastern Province belong to the Twelvers branch. Although the regime does regard the former also as a liability, failing to make the distinction is not only factually incorrect but also a misjudgment of the potential political impact.<br />In his description of Wahhabism Schwartz lowers himself to the level of outright demonization. While it can hardly be denied that Wahhabism is rife with bigotry, difficult to engage in constructive debate, and generally not conducive to intellectual maturing, an attempt should be made to understand how and under which circumstances it developed, and how it is rooted in Islamic tradition. Whether we like it or not, Wahhabism is a factor of very considerable significance in the Muslim World as Schwartz is admitting by writing a book about it. Instead Schwartz makes himself guilty of what he accuses Wahhabism of: dualism and the inherent demonization of &quot;the Other&quot;.<br />Schwartz qualifies its namesake, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, as a &quot;monster&quot; and calls the inhabitants of Central Arabia &quot;savages&quot;, prone to sedition since the time of early Islam. He also implies that Ibn Abd al-Wahhab was bound to dissent due to his affiliation with the Bani Tamim: because the Bani Tamim had once joined the Kharijites, a descendant of the tribe is bound -- a millenium later - to concoct an equally uncompromising form of Islamic revivalism! In an attempt to further soil the Saudis' reputation, Schwartz wrongly represents them as belonging to the Bani Hanifa, a tribe associated with Musaylama, 'the false Prophet' active in Central Arabia during the days of the Prophet Muhammad. The Al Saud descend from the eastern Arabian Dur'u and the clan's ancestor Mani al-Muraydi was only in the 15th century invited by the Bani Hanifa to take up residence in Najd .<br />With his eclecticism and invectives Schwartz has undermined his in itself sympathetic plea for pluralist Islam. Militancy, extremism, and other intolerant forms of Islamic revivalism have rendered the atmosphere in the Muslim world rather insalubrious andSaudi politics have some very unsavory aspects, but Schwartz' approach will do little to clear the air. There are certainly two faces of Islam, but readers would have been better served if the writer had elaborated more on that pluralist Islam instead of this negativist account of what Islam should not be about.	2004-06-02
US	50987513	R3H6AGWDJMCLM6	0385506929	868983665	The Two Faces of Islam: The House of Sa'ud from Tradition to Terror	Books	1	17	22	N	N	Overshooting the mark	In line with its title, the author of this book comes himself across as a  bit of a Janus Head: an adherent of Sufism and religious pluralism on the one hand, a staunchly patriotic political conservative, on the other. The Two Faces of Islam is not the work of a detached analyst of political Islam, but an unabashed diatribe against `Wahhabism' and the Saudi role in promoting this strand of Islam.  Here lies the main weakness of this book:  although Schwartz provides us with many interesting facts and noteworthy observations regarding the rich pluralist heritage of Islam, he is so selective in his argumentation against Wahhabism that it undermines his credibility.<br />For example, in one and the same chapter, &quot;Sword of Dishonor&quot;, Schwartz claims that the US should let Uzbek president Karimov get on with exterminating the Muslim extremists who are terrorizing his country, but that Washington should protest on every occasion against Russia's repression of the Chechens. His argument for this inconsistency: The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Hizb al-Tahrir are of a distinctly Wahhabi signature and thus a menace to Central-Asia's centuries-old pluralist Islam. Therefore they must be routed. What are the guarantees that Karimov will only target `Wahhabis' and leave `Traditionalists' alone? Chechnya's Sufi tradition, on the other hand, has supposedly survived intact and its representatives are in the vanguard of the struggle against a Russian-Orthodox threat. Since the assault on a Moscow theater it can hardly be denied that extremism has also taken root in Chechnya.<br />Schwartz is so eager to lump all Sunni extremists together that he refuses to believe Bin Laden is anti-Riyadh. It is all a ploy to mislead the West. Yet at the same time he engages in what amounts to an apologetics of Khomeini and the Iranian revolution. Because he was educated as a philosopher and initiated in 'Irfan or gnosticism, the Ayatollah does not fit into Schwartz' paradigm of militant Islam. Instead Khomeini is credited as a &quot;standup guy&quot; who at least makes no secrets about his anti-Western views. Anti-Khomeinism in the West was fed by the Saudis because of their vehement anti-Shi'ism. Schwartz goes even further, Khomeini is implicitly dubbed a tolerant pluralist because he taught philosophy, was mystically inclined and wrote poetry in the same vein as the great Sufis. In furthering the cause of Sufism Schwartz could have selected a more convincing argument.<br />In making his case against Saudi-sponsored Wahhabism, Schwartz is further hampered by having never visited the Kingdom and the use of secondary sources only. His selection of these is also questionable. It features Said Aburish but not Mamoun Fandy's excellent study of Saudi dissidents. Schwartz reviles explorer and royal confidant Harry St. John Philby although there is no evidence in the bibliography that he has read any of Philby's books or even Elizabeth Monroe's biography. T.E. Lawrence, however, is presented as a pure idealist, while certain studies shed a very different light on his persona, revealing both a deeply disturbed psyche and political duplicity.<br />This selective use of material also explains his erroneous assessment of the succession question in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi ambassador to Washington, Prince Bandar, and former intelligence chief (now envoy to London), Prince Turki al-Faisal, are certainly high profile figures. But in the line-up for the throne the governors of Riyadh and the oil-rich Eastern Province -- one a full brother, the other the oldest surviving son of ailing King Fahd -- figure more prominently, yet their names - and those of some other key contenders -- are not even mentioned.<br />His report of the Najran uprising in early 2000 fails to notice that the Shi'ites clashing there with security forces are Ismai'ilis (Seveners), while those in the Eastern Province belong to the Twelvers branch. Although the regime does regard the former also as a liability, failing to make the distinction is not only factually incorrect but also a misjudgment of the potential political impact.<br />In his description of  Wahhabism Schwartz lowers himself to the level of outright demonization. While it can hardly be denied that Wahhabism is rife with bigotry, difficult to engage in constructive debate, and generally not conducive to intellectual maturing, an attempt should be made to understand how and under which circumstances it developed, and how it is rooted in Islamic tradition. Whether we like it or not, Wahhabism is a factor of very considerable significance in the Muslim World as Schwartz is admitting by writing a book about it. Instead Schwartz makes himself guilty of what he accuses Wahhabism of: dualism and the inherent demonization of &quot;the Other&quot;.<br />Schwartz qualifies its namesake, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, as a &quot;monster&quot; and calls the inhabitants of Central Arabia &quot;savages&quot;, prone to sedition since the time of early Islam. He also implies that Ibn Abd al-Wahhab was bound to dissent due to his affiliation with the Bani Tamim: because the Bani Tamim had once joined the Kharijites, a descendant of the tribe is bound -- a millenium later - to concoct an equally uncompromising form of Islamic revivalism! In an attempt to further soil the Saudis' reputation, Schwartz wrongly represents them as belonging to the Bani Hanifa, a tribe associated with Musaylama, `the false Prophet' active in Central Arabia during the days of the Prophet Muhammad. The Al Saud descend from the eastern Arabian Dur'u and the clan's ancestor Mani al-Muraydi was  only in the 15th century invited by the Bani Hanifa to take up residence in Najd .<br />With his eclecticism and invectives Schwartz has undermined his in itself sympathetic plea for pluralist Islam. Militancy, extremism, and other intolerant forms of Islamic revivalism have rendered the atmosphere in the Muslim world rather insalubrious and Saudi politics have some very unsavory aspects, but Schwartz' approach will do little to clear the air. There are certainly two faces of Islam, but readers would have been better served if the writer had elaborated more on that pluralist Islam instead of this negativist account of what Islam should not be about.ormer also as a liability, failing to make the distinction is not only factually incorrect but also a misjudgment of the potential political impact.<br />In his description of  Wahhabism Schwartz lowers himself to the level of outright demonization. While it can hardly be denied that Wahhabism is rife with bigotry, difficult to engage in constructive debate, and generally not conducive to intellectual maturing, an attempt should be made to understand how and under which circumstances it developed, and how it is rooted in Islamic tradition. Whether we like it or not, Wahhabism is a factor of very considerable significance in the Muslim World as Schwartz is admitting by writing a book about it. Instead Schwartz makes himself guilty of what he accuses Wahhabism of: dualism and the inherent demonization of &quot;the Other&quot;.<br />Schwartz qualifies its namesake, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, as a &quot;monster&quot; and calls the inhabitants of Central Arabia &quot;savages&quot;, prone to sedition since the time of early Islam. He also implies that Ibn Abd al-Wahhab was bound to dissent due to his affiliation with the Bani Tamim: because the Bani Tamim had once joined the Kharijites, a descendant of the tribe is bound -- a millenium later - to concoct an equally uncompromising form of Islamic revivalism! In an attempt to further soil the Saudis' reputation, Schwartz wrongly represents them as belonging to the Bani Hanifa, a tribe associated with Musaylama, `the false Prophet' active in Central Arabia during the days of the Prophet Muhammad. The Al Saud descend from the eastern Arabian Dur'u and the clan's ancestor Mani al-Muraydi was  only in the 15th century invited by the Bani Hanifa to take up residence in Najd .<br />With his eclecticism and invectives Schwartz has undermined his in itself sympathetic plea for pluralist Islam. Militancy, extremism, and other intolerant forms of Islamic revivalism have rendered the atmosphere in the Muslim world rather insalubriousand Saudi politics have some very unsavory aspects, but Schwartz' approach will do little to clear the air. There are certainly two faces of Islam, but readers would have been better served if the writer had elaborated more on that pluralist Islam instead of this negativist account of what Islam should not be about.	2004-05-03
US	50987513	R13G74LGO37M66	185168316X	418629094	Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism	Books	5	38	54	N	N	Road map to a new discourse on Islam?	During recent years Islam has been put increasingly on the defensive. In response to the flurry of sensationalist publications many Muslims have felt a need to take their recourse to apologetic counter reactions. Not the people involved in the Progressive Muslims Project, who are behind this collection of essays. Instead they have chosen for an assertive stance. But from that position they express some very surprising viewpoints.<BR>In the future the present publication is going to be recognized as one of the watershed books on Islam written in the early post-9/11 period, and is bound to become a core reference for the new direction in which independently-minded Muslims will steer the debate on what it means to be Muslim in the 21st century. All contributors to this volume are Muslim scholars of religion with solid academic credentials and respectable track records as publicists, whose roots lie in the United States, Iran, Kuwayt, Pakistan, Malaysia, and South Africa. <BR>Some of the essays are highly personal reflections on Muslim identity, including two courageous pieces on highly contentious issues concerning gender and sexuality. This review, however, focuses on a few contributions that will certainly reset the boundary marks of discourse on Islam; not only for academic research but also for the more activist engagement with the Muslim legacy. <BR>The tone for these pioneering efforts is set in the introduction by the volume's editor, Dr. Omid Safi, who deserves credit for being one of the driving forces behind the Progressive Muslims Project. His essay \\"The Times They are A-Changing\\" can be read as a blueprint for a new, more assertive, approach to the debate on things Islamic in the contemporary world. Who would have thought quotes from the Holy Quran and Bob Dylan lyrics would ever feature together in the heading of a scholarly work?<BR>Safi starts with what he calls a 'multiple critique', in which he underscores the need for univocal commitment to a universal notion of justice, based on the explicit recognition that all mankind shares in a common humanity deserving unreserved respect. This is definitely a progressive stand, but at the same time Omid Safi warns against the overeasy equation of progress with modernity: proponents of the latter are often as arrogant as the authoritarian Muslim 'literalists-exclusivists' and their views should not be uncritically embraced. Instead the author calls for genuine engagement with Muslim tradition, whereby pluralism, social justice, and gender equality shall serve as benchmarks.<BR>The introduction contains a number of statements heralding this innovative approach: progressive Muslims are not to be automatically labeled as 'liberal Muslims'-- many of whom are too enamored with modernity; the new discourse should be less normative and theological, and more people-centered, \\"chronicling the spectrum of Muslim practices and interpretations\\" with a sense for historical context. More provocative is his call to move beyond mere tolerance of fellow man and toward actively engaging the other on what makes us all human. The same applies to his observation that the phrase 'Islam is a religion of peace' has become hollow, if it means the mere absence of war instead of the more positive struggle for justice. This is one of the clearest rejections of the \\"minimal ethics\\" that characterizes liberal ideology.<BR>Many of these elements are further elaborated by Farid Esack, a prominent South-African Muslim scholar and activist, in an essay that takes the document \\"Progressive Islam - A Definition and Declaration\\" as its point of departure. Esack is very critical of the views expressed by many liberal Muslims, whom he accuses of suffering from the same myopia as their fundamentalist adversaries: presenting themselves as 'authentic' interpreters of Islam and canonizing certain statements in the sacred scriptures without regard for the context. He is equally dismayed by liberal Muslims' failure tochallenge that other form of fundamentalism: that US interests represent the axis around which the earth rotates.<BR>Another outstanding contribution is Khaled Abou El Fadl's \\"The Ugly Modern and the Modern Ugly: Reclaiming the Beautiful in Islam.\\" This essay is a classic example of what a critical examination of one's own tradition is all about. Because El Fadl takes on the phenomenon of 'supremacist puritanism' taking hold of a religion. He observes that \\"when it comes to the issue of self-critical appraisals, Muslim discourses [..] remain captive to the post-colonial experience. These discourses are politicized and polarized to the extent that the Muslim intellectual who takes a critical approach to the Islamic tradition often feels that he is stepping into a minefield.\\" Nowhere is that better exemplified than by the extraordinary dominance of the stern interpretations made by Wahhabism. Originating with the Central-Arabian 'evangelist' Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab (d. 1792) it became the state ideology of the Al Saud dynasty, which has dominated politics on the Arabian Peninsula since the 1750s and started to actively export this doctrine beyond their kingdom in the late 20th century. This only became possible due to a unique convergence of social-political trends and money, which is lucidly explained  by Abou el Fadl and illustrated with ample historical data.<BR>Another important intellectual genealogy is provided by Ebrahim Moosa, an eminent scholar from Duke University, in his essay on a 'Critical Islam.' For this he draws on the work of literary figures like the Turkish novelist Orhan Pamuk and philosophers such as Muhammad Iqbal. But he also refers to the text-critical approaches of Islamic studies by Muhammad Arkoun and Nasr Hamid Abu Zayd, and his own fellow-authors, Farid Esack and Khaled Abou El Fadl.<BR>Before closing, the essay by Amin Wadud on \\"American Muslim Identity\\" deserves also to be mentioned explicitly. For a non-American and non-Muslim likemyself, Wadud draws a most revealing portrait of the complexity of Islam in the United States, where it is not only tied up with concepts of religious experience, but closely entwined with notions of race and ethnicity.<BR>Omid Safi and his colleagues have done a great service to the field of religious studies with what  will hopefully become a visionary book on 21st-century Islam.	2004-03-03
US	50987513	R35Y9H4A5YIG4R	0824819578	828675836	Islam in an Era of Nation-States: Politics and Religious Renewal in Muslim Southeast Asia	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Learning from the Periphery	This study edited by anthropologists Robert Hefner and Patricia Horvatich is an important contribution to the understanding of Islam's role in shaping the twentieth-century nation-states of Southeast Asia and its Muslim population's perceptions of their own identity. <br />In spite of the wide range of topics there is a remarkable consistency in the authors' approaches. One indication for this is the frequency with which the same source material is referenced. This is not a sign of prejudice, but rather of an understanding of certain important \\"megatrends.\\" For example, the authors of six of the book's ten chapters have consulted Eickelman's \\"Mass Higher Education and the Religious Imagination in Contemporary Arab Societies\\"; signaling their shared awareness of the impact of educational changes on the innovative engagement with religiosity.<br />According to Hefner's introduction, the dominant discourse in Southeast Asia is \\"a remarkable combination of pluralism, intellectual dynamism, and openness to dialogue.\\" Southeast Asian Islam's specific social and historical horizon enables us to deepen our understanding of the Muslim world's diversity. In a brief digression Hefner then takes scholars to task for their distorted views of Southeast Asian Islam. Following the authority of Clifford Geertz, most Asianists have dismissed local Islam as just a thin layer of veneer, while many Islamologists consider Southeast Asia as the geographical and intellectual periphery of the Muslim world.<br />Hefner points also to country-specific patterns, like Indonesian Islam's \\"long history of pluralism and extra-governmental independence\\"; Malaysia's limitations on civil autonomy; and the Philippines' search for a balance between Muslim dominance in the south and the danger of its marginalization within the nation-state.<br />The first essay -- Thomas McKenna's study of Muslim or \\"Moro\\" identity in the Cotabato area -- forms a welcome correction of the often ill-understood position of Filipino Muslims. Hefner's second contribution \\"Islamization and Democratization in Indonesia\\" is one of the volume's most impressive essays. This grand scheme is explained on the basis of a genealogy of the Association of Indonesian Muslim Intellectuals (ICMI). Not only is this fascinating phenomenon an astonishing departure from Suharto's earlier New Order policies, but its importance is further enhanced by the fact that virtually all key Muslim leaders played a part in its development, whether they effectively joined the organization or not. Although French journalist Andrée Feillard's examination of the tensions between nation-state and traditionalist Islam provides an illustrative account of the role of the world's largest Muslim organization, the Nahdlatul Ulama (NU), in Indonesian politics, some of her conclusions depend too much on inferences that are difficult to substantiate.<br />John Bowen opens the book's second section with a study of the challenges posed by modernity to local perceptions of self. His approach is reminiscent of James Siegel's seminal study \\"The Rope of God.\\" Where Siegel surveyed both traditional Acehnese Muslim literature and twentieth-century periodicals, Bowen has studied Muslim rhetoric in neighboring Gayo on the basis of an entirely new genre of poetry called \\"saèr.\\" Anthropologists like Siegel and Bowen must be congratulated for their willingness to depart from their discipline's established methodologies.<br />With her study of the Ahmadiyya Movement on the Philippine Island of Simunul, co-editor Patricia Horvatich has inarguably made the most extraordinary contribution. By choosing such an arcane topic the author has also been able to underscore the \\"drawing-in\\" effect of modernization. No place is immune to its impact. At the same time it is important to realize that such intrusions are not necessarily all negative: in spite of the potential menaceto the inhabitants of such remote places, being considered \\"worthy\\" of outside attention also can give rise to a new sense of self.<br />The last essay examining reform and reformism is dedicated to the problematic relation between the student-dominated Dakwah or Revivalist movement(s) and the government in Malaysia. This is placed against the background of the centrality of \\"Muslimness\\" to the notion of \\"Malayness.\\" To illustrate the development of these tensions, author Shamsul A.B. has opted for a historical treatment: identifying an \\"awakening period\\" in which humanities students dominated the movement; a \\"forward movement period\\" during which the science students took over; a \\"mainstreaming period\\" characterized by growing state influence; and the current \\"Dakwah and Industrialized Malaysia period\\", in which - according to the author's prediction -- the movement will continue to penetrate still highly traditionalist rural Malaysia, while its ideological outlook will become increasingly pluralist.<br />The two essays on \\"Ordinary Muslims\\" serve to illustrate the resilience of traditionalist Islam, or better ordinary Muslims' perceptions of what it means to be Muslim. Michael Peletz warns against the assumption that all Malay(sian) Muslims are squarely behind the Dakwah movement, on the contrary: \\"many, perhaps most, are clearly hostile both to various elements of the movement and state agents and others who endorse it.\\" On the other hand resistance is curtailed by four variables: the state policy against any \\"counterhegemonic\\" discourse; a more hidden form of censorship; the moral and existential constraints posed by the centrality of \\"being Muslim\\" to Malay cultural identity; and the \\"Panopticon\\" of social control. Martin Rössler's study of Muslim identities in a rural community of South Sulawesi tries to make a case for finding some middle ground between local particularity and an \\"Islam of all times and all places.\\"<br />In her Afterword South Asia historian Barbara Metcalf shares some final thoughts, in which she endeavors to drawsome parallels with the study of history, religion and nationhood in her own area of specialization.<br />Islam in an Era of Nation-States is a balanced account based on both micro- and macro-level studies. The reader comes away with the impression that the modernization project in Southeast Asia has produced - like probably everywhere else - the good, the bad, and the ugly. On the one hand, it has provided Southeast Asians with a toolbox for critical engagement with their own heritage. At the same time many may have failed to realize the immanent danger of throwing out the child with the bathwater. On the other hand, it has led some reformists to develop a tunnel-vision worldview that sometimes borders on self-hate.	2004-02-20
US	50987513	R2ARGVSCEBJYL3	1862075409	176454948	A Fury for God: The Islamist Attack on America	Books	5	47	50	N	N	What makes extremists tick?	Amidst all the paranoid, hysterical and bigoted writings that have flooded the market in the wake of 9/11 Malise Ruthven's \\"A Fury for God\\" is a beacon of restraint. Except for the somewhat overly dramatic first chapter this book is a serious attempt to trace the roots of the seeming incomprehensible fury unleashed against anything American in the late Summer of 2001.<br />Although, in his preface, he makes no claims to great originality, Ruthven's approach of the subject matter is refreshingly different from most other books, the vast majority of which run aground in superficial treatment  and overly easy conclusions regarding the motivations of Muslim extremists.  It is a bit of a pity that Ruthven did not resist the temptation to graft his narrative on the dramatic imagery of eyewitness accounts. But he quickly makes good on this by shifting to a philosophical approach. For this the author brings with him a solid grounding in religious studies. Although his specialism is indeed Islam, it becomes obvious that he is also conversant with the broader field of comparative religion, enabling him to draw parallels with Christian and even Hindu traditions.<br />One of the most important points he makes in the first chapter is the key realization of the incommensurability of fundamentalist and more liberal thought patterns. Where the latter tend to see religions as 'cummulative traditions', a syncretism of various cultural influences,  the former search for pristine faith: with clear-cut and neat oppositions. Fundamentalists are hardcore dualists, says Ruthven, reducing the world to the Manichaean dimensions of good and evil. In fact, for fundamentalists, faith IS Manichaean. A very interesting observation in this context is that, in that sense, the religious views of many Americans are equally dualist. As Ruthven points out American diplomacy has a distinctly 'Manichaean' streak because American politics  has deep biblical and puritan roots. <br />A major difference between fundamentalist Muslims and fundamentalist Protestants is however how far they are willing to carry their literalism. In the remainder of the book  Malise Ruthven sets out to uncover the genealogy of Islamic fundamentalism. <br />The writer commences with an extensive historical examination of the Jihad doctrine, beginning with its Quranic origins in the so-called \\"Sword Verse\\", he moves on to the importance of the rapid territorial expansion of the Islamic empire during its first generation,  and introduces later-day conceptualizations such as the differentiation between individual and collective obligations to defend the faith, and religious warfare as a sociological agent. Ruthven also signals the centrality of the rewards of martyrdom in Jihad doctrine.<br />Probably the most revealing chapter of the book is \\"The Aesthetics of Martyrdom\\". Here Ruthven tries to make sense of the intellectual heritage left by one of the chief ideologists of fundamentalist Islam: Sayyid Qutb. Most source books on Muslim radicalism recognize the seminal importance of this writer, but Ruthven assigns key importance to Qutb's stay in the USA during 1949-1950. This experience changed his worldview so profoundly that he gave up his earlier literary career and became a Muslim activist. Qutb's statement that he was born in 1951 sounds eerily familiar: 'Reborn' Christians refer to their religious experience in similar terms.<br />Another important point  made in this chapter is the new way in which Qutb encourages his followers to read the Quran. Ruthven calls this 'proof-texting', meaning that certain passages are taken out of context and treated like talismans for spiritual guidance and \\"fetishes\\" of scientific truth. This is further elaborated in the next chapter, where the phenomenon of dedication to a cause until death is investigated. Alongside references to accepted authorities in the fields of Islamic and general religious studies, Ruthven also maps the emergence of a plethora of radical Muslim organizations since the late 1960s. This chapter is also used to set up another key notion: the question of identity. Finally, Ruthven makes some rather surprising connections with `70s urban guerrilla groups (like Germany's Baader-Meinhoff Gruppe) and the philosopher Nietzsche.<br />In \\"Cultural Schizophrenia\\" the writer tries to get into the perpetrators' heads. Not in an effort to come up with some sort of apologetic explanation, but to make sense of how basically rational, relatively well-educated young men can be brought to such horrific acts. This chapter is a search for a common ground in the life experience of the young Saudis of 9/11 and Sayyid Qutb's American sojourn. It also unveils some interesting facts on the pervasiveness of tribal affilitation in Saudi society and the latent dissent among the Wahhabi religious scholars.<br />The two following chapters cover territory that is also dealt with in other books: Saudi Arabia's 'Islamic imperialism', the creation of - in the end uncontrolable - Jihadist  organizations fighting the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, and the importance of the 1990-1991 Gulf War and its aftermath in breeding resentment against the governments in Riyadh and Washington, a feeling ruthlessly exploited by Bin Laden c.s.<br />In the concluding chapter \\"A Clash of Civilizations?\\", Ruthven critically examines the doctrines propounded by two  \\"spin doctors\\" of the Clash-of-Civilizations thesis: Samuel Huntington and Benjamin Barber. Malise Ruthven acknowledges the plausibility of Huntington's civilization concept, but finds his ideas on religion wanting. According to Ruthven, Huntington is shortselling religion because he limits it to formal doctrines and ritual practices, better were it to take them as communication systems or symbolic languages expressing a vast array of human impulses. This might be especially relevant for Islam, which can be characterized as institutionally poor but rich in discursive tradition. Although Barber provides a powerful antidote to the Huntington doctrine, his explanation has another flaw: the denial of  modern Islamism's claim of universality, lumping it together with mysticism and nationalism. <br />Some of Ruthven's references provide already a hint of the direction in which the author is looking for a  way out of the cul-de-sac into which Muslim fundamentalism is leading the Islamic world. In the closing paragraphs the author points at the need of unwavering commitment to restructuring Muslim society on democratic principles, which are not inherently incompatible with Islam.	2002-12-12
US	50987513	RMRDWVC5KNQI8	1860645313	914889476	Islam and Modernity: Muslim Intellectuals Respond	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The other Face of Islam	The cataclysmic events both inside and outside the Muslim world since 9/11 have caused some serious collateral damage. Inter-religious dialogue has suffered a severe setback as a result of the increased antagonism between Muslims and non-Muslims. Especially progressive Muslim thinkers are now in an even less enviable position than before. In their attempts to find ouvertures these potential bridge-builders between modern western thought and Islamic discourse are often vilified by less open-minded fellow Muslims. In todays climate poisoned with suspicion, these intellectuals face a real danger of  being stonewalled or considered mere apologists in the West as well.<br />The only way out of this deadlock of mistrust is to take note of the views and ideas of these often original thinkers. \\"Islam and Modernity: Muslim Intellectuals Respond\\" is a volume of essays in which  some innovative Muslim thinkers are either presented and interpreted by Islamic studies specialists or given opportunity to speak for themselves.<br />After an introduction by Derek Hopwood, sketching the intellectual climate in which the debate on cultural heritage and response to outside influences is grounded in the world of Islam, followed by an essay on modernist influences on 19th century Urdu literature, John Cooper analyzes the contributions of Irans controversial philosopher of science, Abd al-Karim Soroush, to the debate on the Islamization of knowledge. A pharmacologist by training, Soroush also engages in penetrating studies of traditionalism and Islamic philosophy. Although he was very much involved in the educational reforms taking place in the wake of  Irans Islamic revolution, Soroush has nevertheless been able to retain an independent intellectual stand. Cooper explains that he succeeded in doing so because [h]e began to present a more personalized discourse, in which his intellectual autobiography came to figure prominently [..]. In his argumentations for new trajectories towards knowledge Soroush uses elements from the entire Islamic intellectual spectrum: Persian poetry, ideas borrowed from revivalism, mysticism, and scriptural studies are employed to trace genealogies and suggest a new Islamic epistemology.<br />Andreas Christmann presents a micro-level study of the Damascus-based preacher Shaikh Muhammad Said Ramadan al-Buti. The essay is based on field-work in which he has researched the biography of this representative of the traditional ulama or religious scholars, and the influences his ideas have had, mainly through the modern media of radio and TV.<br />Nadia Abu-Zahras survey of the liberal writer on Islam, Husayn Ahmed Amin, shows that his main focus is on the importance of correct knowledge of Islamic history and consideration for social circumstances in the development and implementation of Islamic law or Sharia. Together these will make Muslims aware that Sharia law developed centuries ago and that its stipulations have failed to keep pace with new social conditions. In adapting to these new circumstances, Muslims can enhance their confidence in their Islamic identity. That such a reform has failed sofar is, among others, due to the misconception of  the Prophets infallibility, ignoring the fact that many of the Prophets actions were driven by political and economic interests, and the isolationist attitudes of later generations of jurists. In a detailed analysis of Amins argumentation on the basis of historical and scriptural studies, the author points out several inconsistencies in Amins reasonings.<br />The Sudanese reformist Mahmud Muhammad Taha has paid the ultimate price for his modernist thinking: in 1985 he was condemned to death on charges of apostasy and executed. Mohamed Mahmouds essay focusses mainly on the thinkers most influential work: The Second Message of Islam. Taha may be characterized as a universalist and gnostic, as such  his thought was not so different from certain strands of Sufism.<BR>Tahas philosophy is permeated by two interrelated problems: the relationship between individual and society, and mans relationship to the universe. Tahas starting point that in Islam the individual is the end. Everything else, including the Quran and the religion of Islam itself, are means to that end., makes him a true humanist. Further on Mohamad Mahmoud explains that Tahas evolutionary perspective on religion induces him to take Islam as a living, endless process rather than a doctrine pregnant with dogmatism.<BR>The author then takes us through some intriguing concepts that Tahas philosophy touched upon: original and subsidiary revelations, jihad, gender, slavery, the position of democracy.<br />According to Ronald Nettler, Tunesian-born mediaevist Mohamed Talbi has made a significant contribution to modernist Islamic religious thought in the later half of the twentieth century. Central themes in Talbis thinking are the contextuality of scriptural exegesis, mans innate pluralism, and the provisionality of all knowledge. Interestingly, Talbi acknowledges his intellectual debt to the Christian theologian Hans Kueng for his views on interreligious relations.<br />The Moroccan Mohamed Abed Jabri is a professional philosopher, who has engaged in the debate on how Muslims can  accommodate concepts like democracy and human rights in their conceptional world. Central to his thinking are notions such as ethical princple and rationality. Abdou Filali-Ansaris essay contains an interesting exposition on Jabris view of secularism, serving as an illustration of the invasion of  the theological field by secular intellectuals.<br />From a similar mold, but decidedly post-modernist in tone, is the essay by Mohammed Arkoun, an expert on Islamic philosophy. He makes a case for differentiation between Quran-as-fact and Islam-as-fact on the basis of historical, sociological and linguistic research, without losing sight of the influence that ideologies have on the formation of meaning.<br />Another thinker who has suffered the consequences of his innovative approaches to Islamic studies is Nasr Hamid Abu Zaid, who had to seek refuge in the Netherlands after being sued for apostasy in Egypt. He suggests that semiotic methods can be fruitfully applied to the study of Quran. His essay, dealing with the textuality of the Quran, illuminates Islamic notions of text, language and semantics. He emphasizes, however, that textual particularities must be studied in their historical context,  and that the texts interpretation is absolutely human and therefore infinitely diverse. <br />All in all, this collection of essays makes an excellent companion volume to any of the vast number of books on political Islam.	2002-10-03
US	50987513	R1WQKEN4O31RWV	0805208984	641548887	The Crusades Through Arab Eyes (Saqi Essentials)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Holding up a Mirror to the West	It is sad that only a major political catastrophe has put this book on the map again. For \\"The Crusades Through Arab Eyes\\" was written more than twelve years ago. It is very unfortunate that in the preceding years the publications of award-winning author Amin Maalouf, who writes in French, have not received attention they deserve in the English-speaking world. For also in his other books he introduces the Islamic world from a very different angle than the one provided by most Western media and sensationalist writers, who have jumped on the post 9/11 bandwagon.<br />The Lebanese Amin Maalouf is uniquely well positioned to portray the encounter between the West and the neighboring Islamic world. His country straddles a  'vault line' between two culture zones -- to the terminology of Samual Huntington -- and the journalist Maalouf has personally experienced the tragedy of people being segregated or, worse, violently clash along such a line. No longer able to engage in his profession he has been forced to go into exile in France.<br />In spite of such a traumatic experience he has not given up on what seems to have become his mission as a writer: to point out that there is much more that unites us than that divides us. But then on the other hand, no dispute can turn out so vicious as a family feud.<br />Amin Maalouf cleverly employs the theme of the crusades to make the reader aware of how these alien invaders were regarded by the diverse population of the Near East (contrary to the generally held impression, the inhabitants of Palestine, Lebanon, and Syria were and are a veritable ethnic mosaic). He holds up a mirror, so the speak, in which Westerners can see how they came across to people, who in many regards were more cultured, cosmopolitan, and probably much more tolerant, than these uncough warriors from Europe's back-of-beyond. In fact they were the keepers of the Judeo-Christian and Hellenistic legacies that constitute the very building blocks of our own Westerncivilization.<br />Against this grander scheme of things, the book is also a vignette of a vibrant medieval culture, thus offering a window on a fascinating world that has unfortunatelly disappeared. By examining Levantine society on a micro-level, Maalouf makes its people spring to live. The demonized \\"Saracens\\" of Christian crusader lore now come first and foremost across as fellow human beings. In fact, once settled in the Holy Land, many of the European knights and noblemen quickly became an integral part of that stimulating cultural melting pot.<br />Apart from \\"The Crusades through Arab Eyes\\", readers should read some of Maalouf's other informative and entertaining books on Islamic and Middle Eastern history, like \\"Samarkand\\", \\"Leo Africanus\\" and \\"The Rock of Tanios\\". They will come away with an image of an entirely different Middle East than the one currently dished out.	2002-09-27
US	50987513	R2C5KFBD6VDV4G	1568360525	896804383	The Crossing Place: A Journey Among the Armenians (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Quest for Ararat	Philip Marsden clearly harbors a special interest in eastern Christian traditions, for they run like a red thread through his three travel books. In \\"A Far Country: Travels in Ethiopia\\" he visits this sole surviving Christian nation in the Horn of Africa, surrounded by Islamic countries. \\"The Spirit Wrestlers\\" explores a plethora of  religious movement springing up in Russia, Ukraine and the Caucasus in the wake of the Societ Union's downfall..<br />In \\"The Crossing Place\\" Marsden sets out to investigate the tragic fate of the Armenians, an ancient Christian people from the Caucasus. This mountainous region tugged in between the Black and Caspian Seas lies on the crossroads of  the old Persian, Turkish and Russian realms. It is also the place were six of the world's twelve tectonic plates meet, making it one of the most earthquake-prone regions in the world.  Because of  this geographical position Armenia's fate is permeated with disaster, both natural and man-made. These experiences have made dislocation a continuous theme in Armenian history and provide the book with a double travel motif: not only the author is constantly on the move, but so is his subject.<br />Marsden became interested in the Armenians through a chance encounter in eastern Turkey. There he stumbled on some fragmentary remains of the 1915 Armenian genocide. Intrigued by what he had found he decided to work his way back to the Armenian heartland.<br />The first part of the book is situated in the Near East, where Armenia had almost ceased to exist, \\"pushed down one of history's side-alleys and murdered\\". Or so it seemed, had they not been such a resilient people. Marsden picks up the trail in the Armenian quarter of Jerusalem. He learns that the Armenians first appeared on the Anatolian plains in the sixth century BC. Eight hundred years later their king became the first ruler to accept Christianity. A first glimpse of the `essential Armenia\\" is caught during a visit to a famous center for Armenian Studies, the San Lazzaro monastery in Venice (where Armenians had been resident well before the city's rise to commercial and political prominence in the 12th century). According to one of its scholars the unique Armenian script developed by Mesrop Mashtot embodies an idea that can not be explained but only expressed in one word \\"Ararat\\", the mountain that is the heart of Armenia.<br />Marsden continues his quest in Lebanon -- by way of Cyprus -- and poses himself the question how such a mobile nation, consisting of merchants, pilgrims and adventurers, had been able to  maintain its distinctiveness. Nowhere better to get a sense of that than in Beirut, which has just emerged from a brutal civil war. Here the Armenians had staunchly stuck to their neutrality but also maintained a basis for their commando-type liberation movements, operating with surgical precision in sixteen countries. Only by tapping into the efficient Armenian network of connections is Marsden able to move swiftly and inconspicuously through Lebanon and Syria. Taking the Baron hotel in Aleppo -- founded and still managed by an Armenian -- as a base camp for explorations into the last surviving Armenian villages of northern Syria, Marsden gives us a chilling account of the ruthlessness with which the Turks perpetrated their ethnic cleansing during the First World War.<br />From Syria the author moves into Turkey. Using the ancient city of Antioch, which for seven hundred years had been largely populated by Armenians, the ruins of Ani, capital of a long-lost Armenian state, and finally Istanbul as a backdrop, Marsden gives an excellent overview of another Armenian characteristic: their genius for building. No single ethnic group in the Middle East has made so many contributions to architecture as the Armenians. They were employed by Turkish, Persian and Indian rulers alike. Marsden conjectures that they may  have been instrumental to the development of Europe's Gothic style with its pointed arch.<br />The second part of the book takes us to the Balkans. Since the days of the Byzantine empire, subsequent rulers of Asia Minor have used this region to exile unwanted elements. This permits Marsden to launch into one of his favorite topics: arcane religious sects. The reader is provided with a most interesting account of how the doctrine of dualism, which can be traced back to the earlier Persian religions of Manichaeism and Zoroastrianism, forms the origin of many Christian heresies. Marsden has clearly studied this issue thoroughly and makes an Armenian role in the spread of heretical beliefs to western Europe quite plausible.<br />Traveling through Bulgaria and Romania, Marsden \\"[..] became aware that the Armenians had been a much greater presence in the Balkans than [..] first imagined.\\" More gaps in the knowledge of this, at first so enigmatic, people are filled. He penetrates deeper into their language and learns about the extent of their trading relations. In the Middle Ages they  had  already reached Moorish Spain, Poland and the court of the Mongol Khan. By the 18th century Armenians were connected with the Ottoman, Safavid and Moghul courts, had established an influence with Burmese and Ethiopian monarchs, and traded in Amsterdam, Calcutta, Java and Tibet.<br />Via the Crimea Marsden finally makes it to Armenia proper where the third part of the book is set. Recently wrested away from seventy years of Soviet domination the situation there is still very precarious. During visits to four famous monasteries in the country's northeast, the writer contemplates the so-called \\"Silver Age\\", Armenia's last period of brilliance during the eleventh and early twelfth centuries. Buried deep beneath this short period of fervent monastic activity lies Armenia's pre-Christian heritage. This atavistic past is just as much part of the Armenian identity as its unique Christian beliefs.<br />The book closes with an account of Armenia's more recent tribulations: a devastating earthquake and the war with neighboring Azerbaijan over the region of Karabagh. Witnessing its effects first-hand, Marsden \\"[..] sensed that here, where the threat was greatest, the Armenian spirit was at its strongest. It was the same spirit that had driven the Armenians through the vast improbability of their history\\".<br />\\"The Crossing Place\\" establishes Philip Marsden as a worthy successor of Colin Thubron, one of Britain's best travel writers. Not only do the two share an interest in less obvious travel destinations on the Eurasian landmass, visiting people at the fringes of so-called great cultures, but their writings have also a certain style in common; a captivating prose that unfolds the power of the English language and holds the reader's attention until the end.	2002-09-20
US	50987513	R1I3L5JUSDF1MF	0195141288	553866449	Makers of Contemporary Islam	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Shaping Islamic Discourse	At present, John Esposito and John Voll are probably the most prominent writers on things Islamic in the United States. Both pair a sound academic grounding in religious studies with the ability to provide readable and balanced accounts on current affairs and important intellectual trends in the Islamic world. In 'Makers of Contemporary Islam' they present a number of Islamic thinker-activists - some of whom are quite controversial - in an empathic manner.<BR>In composing this book the authors have tried to strike a balance between 'pure' intellectuals and political activists. In addition to that they have endeavored to ensure a fair geographical spread as well, by including representatives from North Africa, the Arab Middle East, Iran, the Indian Subcontinent, and Southeast Asia.<BR>In their introductory chapter Esposito and Voll give an account of the role of the intellectual in society. This issue is addressed from both a historical and cross-cultural perspective. The writers have also included a typology of the intellectual in Islamic society: distinguishing between traditional religious scholars (the so-called Ulama), secular thinkers, and modern Muslim activist intellectuals. While the relative influence of the first group has been on the decline ever since the arrival of modernity in the Islamic world, the second group was discredited and soon overtaken by the Islamists following the defeat of the Arabs by Israel in 1967.<BR>The authors have emphasized the subtleties in the thought of the Islamists treated in this volume. It is made clear that all these thinkers take a critical stand towards their own cultural heritage and share an interest in dialogue and intellectual exchange with other cultures. This way a much-needed counterweight is provided for the commonly held image of Islamists as narrow-minded radical fanatics and extremists bound on a violent-ridden collision course with the West.<BR>The Arab Middle East is represented by a Palestinian scholar of religion, Ismail al-Faruqi, and the Egyptian philosopher Hasan Hanafi. These two thinkers share a rigorous academic training in both Islamic studies and western philosophy. Al-Faruqi, who has spent his academic career mainly in North America, was very apt at representing Islamic thought in western philosophic jargon, which may greatly contribute to its accessibility for western thinkers. In addition to that he has written penetrating books on important Islamic concepts such as the tawhid - de absolute unity of God. Al-Faruqi has also been engaged in comparative religious studies. Hanafi is a very prolific writer who has spent time in France and the United States. His most important contributions are his treatment of the concept of 'heritage' and the introduction of the phenomenon of 'the Islamic Left': a strand of Islamism that endeavors to translate critical thought into action.<BR>The account on Hasan al-Turabi, a leading Sudanese Islamist, is focussed more on subject's political career than his philosophy as such. Probably this is due to the fact that the authors have based themselves predominantly on earlier research conducted for the State Department. Yet again, their account is more nuanced than the usual - overly facile - qualification of Sudanese Islamism as state-sponsored terrorism. Yet they never become apologetic and clearly point out that Turabi has indeed not shied away from associating with the country's repressive regimes in order to pursue his own agenda. Esposito and Voll point out that the real influence of Turabi has by and large been limited to the local Sudanese political experience. In the intellectual field however his writings have been - and continue to be - very influential throughout the Islamic world.<BR>The Tunisian Rachid Ghannoushi fits in a similar mold. Probably intellectually the least powerful, he has been instrumental in articulating the importance of dialogue between 'culture zones', in order to find ways to borrow from each other's achievements and yet retain cultural authenticity.<BR>Moving further east we encounter the Pakistani economist Khurshid Ahmad, who has been involved in both the development of an Islamic theory of economics and the actual application thereof during his years as a cabinet member and government adviser. Khurshid Ahmad is also a key-figure in Pakistan's Jamaat-i-Islami, whose founder Mawlana al-Mawdudi has been extremely influential for the formation of Ahmad's thought and the furthering of his political career.<BR>A very interesting figure is the Iranian Abdolkarim Soroush (pen name of Hossein Dabbagh). A pharmacologist-turned-philosopher of science, he has been able to remain at the core of Iran's Revolutionary establishment and yet maintain a controversial stand regarding the impact of Islam on science and politics. In this respect he takes an interesting position through his distinction between religion and 'knowledge of religion', which is very much informed by his expertise in textual studies and profound understanding of poetics. Maybe most surprising is Soroush negative attitude towards Iran's 'Mullahcracy'.<BR>Two of Southeast Asia's most influential islamically oriented politicians are also included in this book.  Not only do they share a common cultural-geographic origin and rather similar outlook, but both have also fallen from political grace. Anwar Ibrahim, a former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister and anointed successor of Mahathir, is serving a long-term prison sentence for alleged corruption and sexual misconduct. Abdurrahman Wahid, long-time leader of the Nahdatul Ulama (NU), was impeached as president of Indonesia and forced to resign.<BR>The only female in this book is Maryam Jameelah; an American woman of Jewish extraction, who decided to embrace Islam and has since then made a name as a writer on traditional Islamic values. I wonder if the authors could not have identified another female intellectual, who is more representative for women Islamists.<BR>In conclusion, 'Makers of Contemporary Islam' is an informed and balanced contribution to the growing body of books on the role of Islam in defining relations between cultures and in international politics.	2002-07-28
US	50987513	R4YQ0YRVNP9EN	0292704801	343692061	Arab-Islamic Philosophy: A Contemporary Critique (MIDDLE EAST MONOGRAPHS)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	In defence of Averroes	The Moroccan philosopher Mohammed Abed al-Jabri is one of the most prominent modern thinkers in the Arab and Islamic world. The collection of essays published under the title ARAB-ISLAMIC PHILOSOPHY. A COMTEMPORARY CRITIQUE is the first of al-Jabri's works to appear in English and it provides an excellent introduction to al-Jabri's ideas.<br />Al-Jabri's project is an endeavor to establish a link between modernity and tradition. He wants it to be clear that modernity does not imply a break with the tradition, but rather an upgrading of the way modern Arabs/Muslims can relate to that tradition. Modernity is also something that has to be developed from within Arab culture instead of just copying European modernist methods. For according to al-Jabri the main insight to be gained is the awareness of the relativity and historicity of each and every tradition. Tradition does not represent an absolute reality transcending history.<br />The essays are organized into two parts. In the first section the author opts for a systematic approach of the subject matter, while the second set of essays provides the historical setting in which the tradition took shape, and identifies the germination of rationalist approaches developing within that tradition.<br />In the first chapter on the shortcomings of traditional discourse, al-Jabri presents three alternative readings of tradition. The fundamentalist reading presents the past as a means to establish and confirm identity. Taking the form of a retreat into a defensive stand, it projects a `radiant future' based upon an `ideological fabrication of the past'. Then there is a liberal reading of the tradition. Clearly derived from European thinking it has espoused an `orientalist discourse' and reads one tradition through another.  Such modern Arab liberal thinking contains a real danger of identity alienation. The third reading, the Marxist one, is qualified by al-Jabri as a ready-made dialectical method that must be considered as scientifically unsound because it posits an outcome before engaging into the analysis.<br />The second chapter is the most lucid portion of the book, and it provides a convenient summary of al-Jabri's thinking as detailed in his main work `Critique of Arab Reason'. Referring to the three alternative readings of Arab tradition, al-Jabri points out that they suffer from two major weaknesses: a weakness of method - caused by a lack of objectivity - and a weakness of vision - due to a lack of historical awareness.<br />The lack of objectivity is a result of the flawed epistemology of Arab-Islamic thought, caused by the wrong application of the analogy method. In the Islamic context this became the scientific method par excellence, but it was applied wrongly by jurists, theologians and grammarians alike. In a similar vein can the lack of historical perspective be contributed to a limited view of the past, which is taken as transcendental and sacral, and must therefore be considered as a-historical.<br />Next al-Jabri poses the question how to escape from this deadlock. From the outset the author makes it clear that this epistemological break does not constitute a break on the level of knowledge itself, but takes place on the level of the mental act. Thinkers should not be `taken by tradition' but rather `embrace tradition'. This necessitates a `disjunction between object and subject' as al-Jabri calls it. Without it objectivity is impossible.<br />First of all the subject should be disjoined from the object in order to get rid of a biased understanding of tradition based on that tradition itself. This can be achieved by a meticulous dissection of texts. The next step is to disjoin object from subject. For this operation al-Jabri suggests a process that is made up of three steps: a structuralist approach, which searches for the constants in a text tradition; a historical approach that links the author's thinking to his historical context; and a ideological approach, which envisages a synthesis between the structuralist and historical readings of the text.<br />Then follows what must be considered the most difficult part of al-Jabri methodology: reconnecting subject and object into a meaningful relationship. Here Mohammed al-Jabri's project of rationalist critique appears to suffer a relapse, for the author suggests nothing less than that this rejoining can only be achieved through intuition. Although he adds immediately that he is not talking about a mystical, personalist or phenomenological intuition, this reviewer is of the opinion that the search for the `unsaid' or the `hidden strategy' of a discourse constitutes a breach in the original train of thought. Al-Jabri's claim that all philosophers kept some ideas to themselves sounds unconvincing and appears to be at odds with the writer's outright hostility towards to Gnostic elements in the thinking of, for example, Ibn Sina [Avicenna].<br />After having dealt with the methodological flaws of Arab-Islamic philosophy, al-Jabri shifts his attention to the issue of vision. Whether we like it or not, vision makes up the framework of method. All systems of thought gravitate around a specific `problematics', in the case of Arab-Islamic philosophy the reconciliation between reason and transmission. This problematics was approached through a specific Islamic reading of Greek philosophy. But the modern students of this Islamic philosophy have failed to make a distinction between the cognitive and ideological perspectives of this reading. This failure has resulting in the qualification of Islamic philosophy as being immobile and `avoid of progress and of dynamics'. <br />This qualification is taken up by al-Jabri at the beginning of his historical essays. Their main purpose is to dispel this myth of immobility. For although the cognitive material has remained intransigent, the ideological use of it was dynamic. Al-Jabri characterizes Islamic philosophy as a militant ideological discourse aroundthe problematics of reason and transmission, constantly facing challenges by the reactionary and conservative elements of society. In the second essay al-Jabri identifies these enemies as the Gnostics on the one hand, and the rigorist legal scholars on the other.<br />In the third historical essay entitled `The Andalusian Resurgence' al-Jabri prepares the ground for his own version of the future of Arab-Islamic thought. Sketching the specific pluralist setting of the Islamic extreme northwest its thinkers were uniquely well positioned and prepared to tackle philosophical questions. Far removed from the ideological and political controversies raging in the central and eastern parts of the Islamic world, the thinkers of Muslim Spain and Northwest Africa could almost at their leisure internalize founding scientific disciplines, such as mathematics, physics, and logic before engaging into metaphysics. The two major exponents of this philosophical tradition, according to al-Jabri, were Ibn Hazm (994-1063) and Ibn Rushd [Averroes] (1126-1198). <br />Rejecting the flawed analogy methods of the tradition and Gnostic mysticism alike, Ibn Hazm was a great promoter of the demonstrative method. Ibn Rushd further continued this axiomatic approach in his simultaneous rejection of the Gnostic residues  in Avicennian thought and al-Ghazali's offensive against the philosophers. Although in the west he is generally known as a commentator of Aristotle, al-Jabri insists that Ibn Rushd did not intend to defend Aristotle against all cost, but merely sought to understand him. <br />According to al-Jabri, it is because of the critique of all epistemological principles that he considers Ibn Rushd as the greatest inspirer for all future Arab-Islamic thought. Translated into modern terms: the Averroist legacy of realism, axiomatic method, and critical approach can help Muslims to construct their own reality. Instead of reading a future in the past, such an expression of a native experience would bring Muslims in touch with their historical consciousness.	2002-06-29
US	50987513	R28GOECICSPTWW	1859846793	348527795	The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity	Books	4	106	118	N	N	Iconoclastic account of world affairs	For those who want to understand how such seemingly disparate issues like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Kashmir question, and the situation in Afghanistan fit together in the Post-Cold War world this latest book by Tariq Ali is almost mandatory reading.<br />This is surely a very personal account of world affairs, and in many instances the author is driven just as much by his own convictions as by a desire to explain. For this is not an unbiased analysis. But to be fair to the author, the iconoclastic Tariq Ali makes no attempt to hide this and would be the first to admit that he has his own political agenda.<br />Readers who do not share Ali's political ideology, and this reviewer is one of them, should nevertheless not be put off by this. For the very value of THE CLASH OF FUNDAMENTALISMS is that it captures a mood, a mood prevalent among scores of people in what we like to call the Third World. And as the anthropologist Clifford Geertz has explained in an entirely different context, moods are just as potent as driving forces for human behavior as the more focussed motivations.<br />Another quality that the author can not be denied is courage. The opening sentence of the first chapter is namely: I never really believed in God. Not many people of Muslim extraction would have dared to make such a confession, at least not since the Salman Rushdie Affair.<br />Tariq Ali is indeed not your average representative of the Third World citizen. Born in a family of feudal landowners in the Punjab province of British India, which was divided after the partition between Pakistan and India, his relatives played a role in politics before and after independence: a grandfather was chief minister, and others held senior positions in the armed forces or served in parliament.  Ali's parents, however, became staunch Marxists, while he himself is a self-confessed Trotskyist. Since his student-days he has been at the forefront of many political activities at the extreme left ofthe political spectrum.<br />His family background and his own political activism have made Tariq Ali a uniquely well-connected man, and this book has benefited from that. Throughout the years the author has had access to the military and political establishment in Pakistan, worked for the Russell Tribunal, traveled in worn-torn Northern Vietnam and visited Palestinian refugee camps. He shows himself not only very well read in Islamic history, but is also conversant with the writings of political radicals of both left and right. He augments his account with examples from literature: critical writers such as Abd al-Rahman Munif and Nizar Kabbani are or were personal acquaintances.<br />All this makes his book an important read for everybody who wants to at least attempt to view the world through the eyes of `the Wretched of the Earth'. <br />In the first part Tariq Ali gives a  genealogy of the heritage of Islamic civilization. Taking us from his personal introduction to Islamic learning, via the days of the Prophet Muhammad and early conquests to the crusades and the Ottoman Empire. This is followed by two more thematic chapters on the wide diversity of Islamic doctrines - meant to dispel the incorrect image of Islam as a monolithic bloc - and a very interesting discourse on gender issues in Islam.<br />In the second part of the book the author introduces us into the modern Middle East. Here Ali explains the way a puritanical strand of Islam ends up making common cause with the imperialistic designs of the West, and how the founding of Israel turned the Middle East into a political quagmire, both because of  irreconcilable differences and outside manipulations. It is the author's accomplishment to give a readable account of how Zionism, the experiments with socialism in Arab countries such as Egypt and Syria, the trauma caused by the 1967 war, the rise and fall of Anwar Sadat and the Shah, have all been instrumental in creating a mood, which in 1987 exploded into the Intifadah. The result was that during the last decades of the twentieth century virtually the whole Middle East was submerged in an 'Ocean of Terror'.<br />In the next part, Ali shifts his attention back to his region of origin: South Asia. Because I am not as familiar with this part of the world as with the Middle East, I found this the most informative part of the book. The author explains how the tensions between India and Pakistan can be traced back to the undesired partition of former British India. During the run-up to independence the leaders of the Congress Party and Muslim League did not envisage the horror and atrocities to which they would expose the people they were suppose to represent. Later on it lead to a bloody war in Bangladesh, while Tariq Ali qualifies the Kashmir issue as the unfinished business of partition. Continued interference by the post-Word War II superpowers did nothing to improve the situation. Pakistani and Indian politics became already hopelessly corrupt, even before the situation got completely out of hand in Afghanistan.<br />While in the previous parts the author has tried to give an explanation for the rage that is holding large parts of the Islamic world in its grip, his final section starts with a chapter entitled `A Short-Course History of US Imperialism'. In many instances Ali hits the nail on the head - the doctrine of Neo-Liberalism is just as fundamentalist in character as  Islamic radicalism. His comparison between the theses presented by two high priests of post-Cold War doctrine, Francis Fukuyama and Samuel Huntington, I found particularly insightful. But at the same time the author's personal political predilections come to the fore as he can not resist filling us in on the involvement of these two `state intellectuals' in some of America's unsavory political actions. Kissinger, Brzezinski and Madeleine Albright are taken to task for this as well. A few quotations from Leon Trotsky, by contrast, serve to present himas a visionary, and there is unfortunately also little or no real analysis of what made Marxism-Leninism fail in the end.<br />But in short, THE CLASH OF FUNDAMENTALISMS is a very valuable book for those who want to look beyond the scare mongering of myopic politicians and sensationalist media. In addition to that, is Tariq Ali an entertaining writer as well.	2002-06-16
US	50987513	R1E8AJ04O1AAK9	0195154355	511670641	Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam	Books	4	52	70	N	N	A sincere attempt to understand	Having read a few of John Esposito's other books I had come to appreciate him as one of America's most level-headed analysts of things Islamic. That is why the first chapter of 'Unholy War' was somewhat disappointing. The description of Osama bin Laden's career as a militant Muslim appeared not to differ very much from many other, superficial accounts of this new 'posterboy' of international terror. Thankfully this unease was dispelled by the remainder of the book, where Esposito shows himself again as somebody with a willingness to understand, without becoming apologetic.<br />For in the second chapter the author seems to regain his composure when he constructs a genealogy of the Islamic Jihad doctrine. The reader is guided through the earliest time of Islam, via the lone medieval figure of Ibn Taymiyya and the 18th-century revivalist Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, to three exponents of modern-day Islamic reformism: the founder of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood, Hasan al-Banna, the Pakistani writer-activist Maulana al-Mawdudi, and the chief ideologist of Islamic radicalism, Sayyid Qutb.<br />As this chapter only gives a brief account of the development of the Jihad concept, there are certain unavoidable generalizations. Unfortunately the depiction given of Shi'ism is somewhat simplistic. However, with this historical account Esposito makes the less-informed reader aware of the fact that the past is of great importance for  giving meaning and guidance to Muslim identity.<br />Crucial in this section of the book is the underscoring of the fact that Muslims disagree among themselves about the exact meaning of Jihad. The fact that until to date the United States government judged Islam's holy and unholy warriors by their goals is another excellent observation. They were called liberators when fighting America's Cold War adversary, but brandished as extremists as they toppled America's ally, the Shah. Future policy makers should heed the implicit warning that is containedin Esposito's qualification that things are never that simple.<br />The third chapter is without a doubt the best. Discerning a new dimension of radical Muslim activism: globalization, the author also focusses on the mutual misunderstandings and misconceptions that exist between the Western and the Islamic World. Where Westerners tend to see Islam as a religion of the sword, Muslims equal Christianity with Crusades and hegemonic ambition. Later history has done very little to dispel these grossly simplistic images.<br />But these images do bear a relevance for today's situation. European colonialism ended Muslim expansion that had continued since the days of the Prophet. This setback was formative for the Muslims' present mindset. Combined with the Muslim notion that Islamic societies must reform themselves in every age, 'they make a combustible mixture'.<br />Western domination has not only had an impact on the relationship between the Muslim and Western world, but also on the relationship between rulers and ruled in the Islamic world itself. The upheaval created by Western interference has still not petered out. Most of the Muslim states are creations of colonialism and the prevalent systems of government are still authoritarian. Esposito warns against drawing the conclusion that repression and dictatorship are therefore inherent to Islam.<br />Esposito cautions also against two other misleading generalizations, which are the result of ignorance regarding the complexities of Muslim society. <br />One is the assumption that radical Islam is only about armed resistance, violence, and terrorism. But there is another side to it as well. Even organizations  that are  involved in terrorist activities, like the Hizbollah and Hamas, have at the same time provided vital social, educational, and health services for their communities where the governments have failed to do so. Such contributions to the raising of living standards will get them the enduring support of the people, even if such organizations are at the same time guilty of atrocities against outsiders.<br />Another mistake is to group all forms of Islamic reformism in gloss categories and use umbrella terms. Esposito cites the misdenomination of all radical Muslims as Wahhabis or Salafis. The original meanings of these terms referred to very specific historical movements, while the latter term was - ironically - first used to denote that trend in Islamic thought, which encouraged the incorporation of modernist concepts and ideas.<br />In the final chapter of the book, Esposito makes an attempt to introduce empathy into our stand towards the Islamic world. He points out that if we presume 'the other' as being completely different from what we are, then we will find in 'the other' whatever we are looking. There is a real danger that we will be tempted to demonize the other.<br />Instead we should try to take a look at the historical experience of the Islamic world through their eyes. In addition to that we must endavor to judge Islam by the totality of its teachings, and not take extremist ideas living at the perify as representing mainstream Muslim sentiment. <br />Furthermore, religious traditions have come into being through the interactions of their predecessors. While we accept that a Judeo-Christian tradition has been internalized and turned into what we call 'Western society', most Westerners have difficulty in coming to terms with the prospect of a Judeo-Christian-Islamic tradition. And yet such encounters have  already taken place in the past: in Asia Minor, Spain, and Sicily. They have been vital not only for the formation of Islamic civilization, but also for some of the most fertile phases in Western thought.<br />It is on these grounds that Esposito rejects the unavoidability of a clash of civilizations. Too much cross-fertilization has already taken place. Western and Islamic traditions are pluralist and not monolithic. Towards the end of the book he presentsalso a number of representatives from the Islamic world who acknowledge the existence of such a pluralism. It is such figures who can act as bridge-builders from the Muslim side, while similar minds start at ours.	2002-06-05
US	50987513	R2BJZSG5FAI7LC	0460876341	513722041	Almayer's Folly (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	A powerful tale of the East	Loosely based on the life of a Dutch merchant, setting up a trading post along a river in the interior of Borneo, Conrad's novel 'Almayer's Folly' is actually about man's alienation from his environment and eventually himself.<br />Written during the heyday of western imperialism, when the great powers of Europe subjected the tropics to their rule, the tale of Almayer explores how the tropics actually devoured the individual westerner.<br />The main character of the book is a man obsessed. Chasing a dream, he completely loses touch with reality. Although on the surface  it may seem that he is a white man gone native, Almayer hasn't got a clue what he is dealing with. He is blind to the schemings of his Malay wife and equally oblivious to the fact that his daughter is drifting away from him. <br />Admittedly, the book has 'orientalist' overtones but, then, Joseph Conrad is both a man of his time and a master of poweful prose, not a politically-correct scholar. The stereotypical mystique of Asia and the inscrutable oriental are exploited as a literary means to descend into the deeper levels of man's psyche. Just like the 'true heart' of Borneo and its inhabitants is hidden under layer upon layer of deceiving images, so is the core of each and every individual. The scariest place to travel is not the interior of an Indonesian Island, but the inner reaches of our own soul.<br />Almayer's Folly is one of the best novels ever written. Not only because of the author's masterful portrayals of character, but also due his astounding command of English. It is hard to believe that Conrad's first and second language were Polish and French: he only learned English as an adult. It is this combination of psychological understanding and extraordinary use of language that make him into a literary genius.	2002-06-03
US	50987513	R33C3LIRG9MWUO	0060926562	362980509	The Lost Heart of Asia	Books	5	48	50	N	N	An excellent piece of soul-searching	British travel writer Colin Thubron is one of the most accomplished representatives of the trade. The trilogy about his exploits in the former Soviet Union: 'Among the Russians', 'Siberia', and 'The Lost Heart of Asia' are literary masterpieces.<br />Thubron has that rare ability to find the strangest out-of-the way places, meet weird people, and then render his observations and encounters in beautiful prose.<br />It is always dangerous - and somehow also unfair - to compare writers, for every writer deserves to judged on the basis of his own merits. However, perusing the oeuvre of Thubron, his descriptions often remind one of fellow travel-writer Norman Lewis (heralded by Graham Greene as the best of the twentieth-century), while his prose appears to betray Conradian influences.<br />Thubron takes us on a simultaneous journey through the enormous landmass of Central Asia and history. Most of the lands he visits lie along the Silk Road. Throughout the centuries these steppes and mountain ranges were invaded by Scythians, Huns, Mongols, Turks, and Russians. Prosperous cities such as Samarkand and Bukhara saw the great Buddhist and Islamic civilizations come and go. Under the Communist Soviet Union they were reduced to squalid backwaters. Polution has destroyed the region's lakes and rivers, and disastrous agrarian reforms have depleted the soil, turning once fertile lands into desert.<br />Along the route Thubron meets some amazing characters. Somehow he manages to find that curious balance between being an observer, not getting in the way of the narrative, and establishing a true rapport with the people he meets, so as to give us a rare insight into their lifes.<br />In view of the current worldwide attention for Central-Asia, and the new 'Great Game' that is presently being played out there, everybody who is trying to understand this enigmatic area should read 'The Lost Heart of Asia'.	2002-06-03
US	50987513	RZJZR1THV3NB2	0006376010	28801661	Younghusband: The Last Great Imperial Adventurer	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Warrior-Mystic or New Age Guru?	This book is an excellent achievement by a young British writer. Patrick French has meticulously researched all aspects of the life of this enigmatic 'empire builder'.<br />In the earlier stages of his life Francis Younghusband was desparately trying to gain fame and get his name into the annals of British imperialism. In a way time was running out, for the era of great explorations was coming to an end. Therefore the young officer set his eyes on the last frontier: Central Asia. <br />Very soon Younghusband was caught up in the hike-stake 'Great Game': the competition between Britain and Russia for control over the enormous expanses of inner Asia. Both states considered this region as vital for its strategic interests. The British feared that control of Turkestan and Tibet would bring the Russians too close to the mountain ranges separating India from the rest of Asia. The Russians in turn considered the steppes and deserts of Central Asia as a buffer zone between its Far Eastern territories and British-ruled South Asia.<br />Younghusband's travel experiences through the Himalayas, Karakorum, Hindu Kush and Pamir mountains would turn out to be essential for the formation of his later-day personality and activities. By temperament Younghusband fits into that strange category of the late Victorian soldier-adventurer with a spiritual bend. Just like General Charles 'Chinese' Gordon and T.E. Lawrence (of Arabia), he paired a love for action with unmistakable spiritual inclinations.<br />After his military and administrative career in the British India service had come to an end, Francis Younghusband started a new mission in life. He became involved in a myriad of organizations concerned with inter-religious dialogue and the pursuit of world peace. Although, along the lines, he maintained a vivid interest in all 'things Asian' and was deeply involved with the first Mount Everest Expeditions.<br />French has been extremely thorough in investigating this second career ofFrancis Younghusband, pursuing all kinds of vague leads and intent on turning over the last stone. Patiently sifting through years of correspondence and personal journals, he pieces together a very detailed picture of Younghusband's later life and relationships with the people around him.<br />French's five year involvement with the life of Francs Younghusband was nothing short of an obsession, with the writer being determined to get into the head of his subject. The result is one of the best and most entertaining biographies I have ever read.	2002-05-29
US	50987513	R2UTYWTVB3KBR6	0300093454	673480068	Jihad: The Rise of Militant Islam in Central Asia	Books	4	34	45	N	N	The Great Game Revisited	Ahmed Rashid must be considered the most knowledgeable journalist of Central Asian affairs. Apart from books, his insightful writings have also appeared in reputable current-affairs magazines such as  the 'Far Eastern Economic Review'.<br />In this latest book he once again provides a very detailed and balanced account of recent developments in one of the most tense regions in the world. During years of research and travel Rashid has not only sifted through a tremendous amount of literature and other documentary data, but also established what must be a unique network of informants throughout Central Asia. Such sources combined permit the author to penetrate deep into the murky world of Central Asian politics. <br />He is equally at home in the workings of the (former) Communist party and  Soviet secret services apparatus as the emergence of radical Islamic resistance movements. The interesting and undoubtedly valuable information, which he presents on the less visible - yet very influential - Muslim activists in the region, is all the more important now that Osama bin Laden's portrayal as 'Evil Incarnate' has simultaneously turned him into a media star and the prime suspect for every terrorist act perpetrated.<br />Rashid's writing is characterized by a rare quality, which pairs unbiased analysis with empathy. The author is equally critical of the repression of the will of the people by current Central Asian leaders , the  blind fanaticism of radical Muslims, and the one-sidedness of Western policy towards the region, which he blames on a lack of knowledge and appreciation of the complexities of Central Asian politics.<br />In his book Rashid does not shy away from giving his own view of what would constitute a more balanced policy towards Central Asia. By this he shows that an informed and critical stand does not preclude a sincere engagement, stemming from genuine sympathy for the tormented people of Central Asia.	2002-05-24
US	50987513	R2OL1P2QJ7H7CO	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	2	7	11	N	N	What's wrong with 'What Went Wrong?'	The octogenarian Bernard Lewis is probably the most prominent and influential expert on Middle Eastern history alive. Lewis' erudition is unquestionable and very impressive. Unfortunately he is also an orientalist from the old mold, whose scholarship has been challenged by revisionists such as Edward Said. It is however because of his traditionalist approach that his views go down so well with the Western public and policy makers alike.<br />That is exactly what is wrong with 'What Went Wrong?' When picking up this booklet, the reader quickly learns that the chapters or essays are in fact the Vienna Lectures, which the author gave in 1999 for an undoubtedly very learned audience. It becomes however very clear that these lectures were not given in response to issues that have become so much more pressing since September 11 (although the author was very quick to have a second edition issued after the terrorist attacks).<br />That does not mean the book is not interesting. In his survey of the history of the relationship between the Islamic World and Europe, Lewis displays a very detailed knowledge of Ottoman History, his actual field of expertise. He appears to be fully conversant with the available archive material and even the most obscure memoirs have not escaped his attention. In fact, the list of quoted works shows that Lewis himself has been instrumental in making these sources available.<br />But fascinating as they may be for the scholar, they provide no more than a background for later-day developments, which have a much more direct relevance to answering the issues that are implied by the book's title.<br />While digging deep into 18th and 19th century diplomacy, Lewis only touches briefly on intellectual history, sketching only the broadest outlines of modernist and reformist thought in Islam. There is nothing worthwhile on the surge of Islamic radicalism that engulfed the Middle East since the seventies, nor anything on the exiting ideas of certain current-day Muslim thinkers.<br />All in all, Lewis leisurely floats along on his established - and deserved - reputation as the doyen of Middle Eastern history, pretending to give us an insight into the psyche of the modern Muslim. In order to learn about what present-day intellectual discourse in the Islamic world is all about, readers would do better to consult other publications.-day Muslim thinkers.<br />All in all, Lewis leisurely floats along on his established - and deserved - reputation as the doyen of Middle Eastern history, pretending to give us an insight into the psyche of the modern Muslim. In order to learn about what present-day intellectual discourse in the Islamic world is all about, readers would do better to consult other publications.	2002-05-24
US	50987513	R326IUMV2FIXYM	1568362498	557225571	The Scents of Eden: A History of the Spice Trade	Books	3	25	27	N	N	Hellish Journeys to Paradise	&quot;In The Scents of Eden: A History of the Spice Trade&quot; American writer Charles Corn dishes up a pungent tale of the West's involvement in the eastern spice trade. Although the use of these condiments can be traced back to antiquity, the history of the origins of its commerce is sketchy at best. Until the arrival of the European explorers on the coast of East Indies, the trade had been firmly in the hands of Indian nakhodas and the real-life alter ego's of Sindbad the Sailor for centuries. Hardly any accounts of their exploits survive, at least not in any language accessible to the author.<br />In the wake of their victory over the last Muslim vestiges on the Iberian Peninsula, Portuguese navigators set out to find their own way to the riches of the orient. By obtaining them at their source they would ensure that the dazzling profits to be made in this business would solely be theirs. In this first part of his historical account, Corn introduces a number of colorful characters: swaggering adventurers of a type later immortalized by Joseph Conrad in &quot;Lord Jim&quot;, as well as zealots like the warrior-priest Francis Xavier, whose proselytizing efforts took him all over Asia. Thus we are presented with an animated image of early European colonialism, an era in which the protagonists served both treasury and the cross.<br />Much gloomier is the picture painted of the next phase of European exploits. In an attempt to obtain a unchallenged monopoly over the trade in both pepper and the `holy trinity of spices': clove, nutmeg and mace, the merchants of the Dutch Republic have no qualms about exterminating the native population of the isles or subjecting their competitors to unspeakable cruelty. The figure of Jan Pietersz. Coen, a dour accountant turned Governor General, looms large over this episode, serving as the archetype of the unscrupulous East India Company official. Unfeeling and clinical, he sees terror as a tool to reach his objective: total Dutch control over all trade in the Far East. With surgical precision he executes his plans. His letters to the company directors back home in the Netherlands read like present-day management reports, in which the firing of thousands of workers and the muscling-out of competitors of a market are rendered in the same benign prose. While he retains a certain sympathy for Portuguese and English, the Dutch - to Corn - are insensitive, greedy, amoral, in short: plain evil.<br />But it must be said: Corn spins a magnificent yarn. It is unfortunate that, towards the end of the third part of the book - dedicated to the American participation in the global spice trade, he derails into a moralistic tale, in which the New England merchants and skippers from Salem, Massachusetts, are cast in the unlikely role of `Hollywood' white knights. Here Corn puts his credibility as a competent historian in jeopardy. While one of the contemporary actors in the episode displays a willingness to accept that not all of his fellow countrymen were of unblemished repute, Corn wants nothing of that. So when, after his ship has been hijacked by the Malays, Captain Charles Endicott surmises that this may be the result of the practices of certain dishonest American traders, Corn rejects this out of hand as he writes: `this speculation on Endicott's part is unconvincing. A more likely explanation is that three centuries of infidel European colonization in the Indies - the successive waves of Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch, and English - had bred a profound distrust of Christian Europeans on the part of Muslim Malays in a part of the world where word spread across the waters with the wind [...] The straight-talking, square-dealing sons of Salem had not earned the natives' contempt 250 years later, they merely inherited it from their predecessors.\\"  <br />At first it seems that Corn has fallen victim to the kind of naivité or innocence he wants to celebrate in his heroes. But as he elaborates further on the episode and the ensuing punitive campaign organized by the US navy, one can not dispel the thoght that the author is actually employing the incident as the paradigm for future American interventions elsewhere in the world: protecting American interests overseas is (always) done for morally sound reasons. In underlying message seems to be that in its current, self-appointed role as the world's policeman, the US is confronted with the consequences of wrongs committed by others. And so a well-told `tale of sea' suddenly appears to get political undertones. What a pity.	2001-07-15
US	50987513	RW7GKN8ZKWNU5	0140065504	673022087	Water Music (Penguin Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	44	50	N	N	Travel account, picaresque or novel of manners?	Revolving around the expeditions of Mungo Park, T. Coraghessan Boyle's novel Water Music is not easy to categorize; it is a travel account, picaresque and novel of manners rolled into one.<br />In 1795 the Scotsman Mungo Park (1771-1806) went to Africa to explore the Niger, a river no European had ever seen. Upon arriving in present-day Gambia, he went 200 miles up the Gambia River to the trading station at Pisania and then traveled east into unexplored territory. In 1796 he reached the Niger River at the town of Segu and traveled 80 miles downstream before his supplies were exhausted and he had to turn back. He returned to Africa in 1805, intending to explore the Niger from Segu to its mouth. His expedition was attacked at Bussa, and Park was drowned.   Dedicating the book to the (fictive) Raconteurs' Club, master storyteller T.C. Boyle has concocted an ingenious narrative. At first he spins numerous strands, weaving them into an intricate exotic literary tapestry, as the tale progresses. In fact, the 104 chapters can be read as short stories in their own right. Their titles are sometimes alluding to literary masterpieces by such figures as Ivan Turgeniev, Joseph Conrad and Langston Hughes.<br />Boyle's story starts in the year 1795. Mungo Park is held hostage by Ali Ibn Fatoudi, the Emir of Ludamar, one of the inland Muslim principalities in what is now the Sahel. A protégé  Joseph Banks, erstwhile companion of Captain Cook on his circumnavigation of the globe and now President of the Royal Society and Director of the African Association for Promoting Exploration, Park, a former surgeon on an East India merchantman, has been selected to lead the first expedition in search of the river Niger.<br />Mungo's guide and interpreter is the intriguing Johnson a.k.a. Katunga Oyo. The early biography of this Madingo is reminiscent of the adventures of a character from Maryse Conde. Kidnapped and sold into slavery Katunga Oyo is shipped to a plantation in England's new world colony of South Carolina. After a visit to his overseas possessions the landowner takes him to London. Here Johnson, as  he  is  now  called,  learns  to  read  and  write, and  develops  a  passion  for  literature, becoming a \\"true-blue African homme des lettres\\". After killing a man in a duel, Johnson ends up back in Africa.  Here he \\"melted into the black bank of the jungle\\". Johnson's idiom is full of  - often humorous - anachronisms. He is calling the local cuisine \\"soul food\\" and his old plantation songs \\"the blues\\". He is capable of self-mockery: \\"Don't look at me, brother. I'm an animist.\\"  Sometimes he sounds like a 18th century Muddy Waters. Oscillating between his African heritage and newly acquired European culture, he manages to graft the latter upon his African roots. Johnson becomes a shaman of sorts: At the behest of his former master, who happens to be a member of Sir Joseph's Association, Johnson agrees to join Mungo Park's 1795 expedition. His price: the complete works of William Shakespeare.<br />Ned Rise, a  pauper  from  the  London  underworld,  son  of  an  alcoholic hag, `not  Twist,  not Copperfield, not Fagin himself had a childhood to compare to Ned Rise's'. Through a twist of fate, this impresario of live sex shows avant la lettre, corpse digger and convicted murderer ends up at Fort Goree, just off the Coast of Senegal. Here, at this `gateway to the Niger and bastion of rot' he is drafted into the Royal African Corps and selected to accompany Park on his fateful second expedition into the African interior. Because of his sublime survival instinct he is very able to tune in with his environment Consequently, Ned Rise appears to be better suited to establish a rapport with the natives than Africa-veteran Park.<br />Water Music is more than a travel account. Although it is clear that Boyle has researched his subject meticulously, he is not interested in a mere historically correct chronicle of events as has explained in his introduction.<br />But Boyle does address the issue of the objective of travel-writing seriously. In this respect, it is interesting to see how Mungo Park's own view on his mission evolves in the course of his first journey; the cool observer of the flora and fauna in Sumatra is giving way to the romantic. Held at the court of Ibn Fatoudi Park resolves to make his findings known to the world.ý<br />After an audience with Mansong, ruler of Bambarra, there is a amazing twist. Reading a page from Park's notebook, Johnson notices that the explorer's recording of the meeting is not only inaccurate, but embellishing it beyond recognition. Johnson reproaches Park for this.<br />It seems as if the tables have turned; the African - `the object of study' - demanding accuracy, wanting it `guts and all'. But who is speaking here, and what is his motivation? Is it the intellectual Johnson defending the great cause of science? Or is it the up-rooted Mandingo Katunga Oyo, who wants Africa depicted in all its bizarre horror, motivated by self-hate? Why, on the other hand, does the scholar-explorer Mungo Park want to embellish and cover up? Does he intend to create an image of the `noble savage'? (After all, this is  the age of  Jean-Jeacques  Rousseau). It leaves the reader with questions: how are travel accounts to be read and interpreted? Can a travel-writer's intentions be discerned? And can his account be trusted? <br />The author addresses here an important issue because it goes to the core of travel-writing. Is it possible at all to represent the reality of other cultures? It also raises questions concerning the intertwining of fact and fiction; the imaging of cultures. Water Music is multi-layered; although not an explicit critique of imperialism and although the author does not allow himself to be restrained by ideological shackles, there are implied, ironic observations.<br />Neither does Boyle ignore the culture clash that is occurring within Africa itself between the Muslims, often North-Africans of Arab descent, and the indigenous population of western and equatorial Africa, which is largely animist. The latter are but despicable infidels to the `Moors', who, usually having the political upper hand, prosecute them relentlessly, retaining or  selling  them  as  slaves. It is, incidentally, this conflict which forms a central theme in Condé's earlier mentioned novel Segou. It would be interesting to discover whether Condé has read, and was influenced by, Water Music.<br />But Boyle's main preoccupation is with Mungo Park, the man. In an interview he has explained that, when ýýdoing research for his thesis on 19th century English literature, he came upon Mungo Park in a book by Pre-Rafaelite poet John Ruskin (1819-1900). Further investigation learned that Ruskin's terrific hero appeared to be rather common. What fascinated Boyle was how this seemingly ordinary man came to chase a dream. To abandoned his family and embark on a crazy adventure only to die miserably in the jungle. During the second expedition, He lets Ned Rise also muse upon Mungo Park's insane, relentless push into the interior. <br />Like all good travel-writing Water Music is about two journeys: into the interior of Africa and into the interior of the self, the true heart of darkness.	2001-06-10
US	50987513	R1H5AQR1Y72Q5W	080501960X	919079597	An Empire of the East: Travels in Indonesia	Books	4	18	18	N	N	From Medan to Merauke	This is one of four great books which Norman Lewis wrote about his Asian travels. The author must have been pushing eighty when he embarked on his west to east journey through the 'Girdle of Emerald'.<br />The Dutch decribed the control they had established over a maritime empire consisting of more than 16,000 island as stretching 'from Medan to Merauke', and it is this itinerary that Lewis follows.<br />As usual he tries to stay away as far as possible from the beaten track. No Borobudur, Bali or Lake Toba here, instead the author and his companions decide to explore the northern tip of Sumatra, venturing into the troublesome Aceh province. The staunch Muslims of Indonesia's northern-most region are strongly independent. Even after decades of incessant warfare the Dutch had been unable to completely subjugate these Malay warriors. After independence the nationalist, Javanese-dominated government in Jakarta failed likewise.<br />Lewis then takes us to East-Timor, ravaged by the Indonesian military after the Portuguese withdrawal in 1975. Although political developments since Lewis' visits have changed the outlook of East-Timor dramatically, his account provides an interesting insight into the political situation of the territory just before the collapse of the Suharto-regime and subsequent granting of autonomy to East-Timor.<br />Finally the author visits the interior of Irian Jaya, the Indonesian-controlled half of New Guinea. A disconcerting portrayal of a traditional society on the verge of collapse is followed by a worrying report on the onslaught of greedy mining companies; Lewis makes us witnesses to an ecological disaster in the making.<br />'An Empire of the East' does not reach the level of his earlier books 'A Dragon Apparent' and 'Golden Earth' about French Indochina and Burma respectively. Written in the 1950s these two giants of 20th century travel literature established Norman Lewis as one of the greatest travel writers. Nevertheless, he has again beensuccessful in presenting a cocktail based on his well-tried recipe: combining his highly original depictions of natural scenery with insightful portraits of the people he meets, and - above all - his penchant for unusual situations.	2001-06-05
US	50987513	R218YJJZICZV2G	0824819748	671869308	Siam Mapped: A History of the Geo-Body of a Nation	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Original, innovating and refreshing	Thai historian Thongchai Winichakul's account of a critical period in Thai history pairs an originalap proach with thorough academic research. As the subtitle `a History of the Geo-Body of a Nation' already suggests, the book deals with the crucial episode of the formation of Thailand as a nation-state.<br />Inspired by Imagined Communities, Benedict Anderson's seminal work on nationalism, the author explains in his introduction that he intends to focus his analysis on a by historians much neglected aspect of the spatio-temporal category: geography. <br />Taking the traditional Buddhist worldview as a starting point, he describes how 19th Century Siam, as Thailand was then called, had to come to terms with the many alien concepts considered commonplace in the science of modern geography. Many of these concepts were to have important political implications.<br />Deriving its political system from the Buddhist `Mandala model', the Siamese initially had great difficulies coping with the elementary aspects of political geography. Boundaries and more in particular border demarcations were, if not unknown altogether, considered of minor or no importance in the political view of the traditional ruling class. The Siamese were perfectly at ease in dealing with often illdefined and fluid spheres of influence, frontiers and the `thick lines' of the boundary regions separating the indigenous political entities of Southeast Asia. Likewise they saw no contradiction in the double sovereignty under which the territories at the `margins' of the regional kingdoms often fell.<br />But the Siamese proved to be fast learners and Thonchai quickly dispels the myth that the Siamese were mere victims of or only innocent bystanders at the high political game that was played by the colonial powers in 19th Century Asia. Instead he contends that Siam was very conscious of what was at stake and was just as much a player as Britain or France.<br />`Siam Mapped' is an innovating, provocative and very refreshing account of a very important phase in the history of Thailand. Already exercising its influence on the further course of research into the development of the Thai national-state, this book is a must-read for anyone with a serious interest in the history of Thailand or nationalism in general.	2001-02-12
US	50987513	R39SAY3X19C1Z2	0674824261	566384513	Sources of the Self: The Making of the Modern Identity	Books	5	82	91	N	N	An articulate philosophy of man	With 'Sources of the Self' Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor has written a seminal work along the lines of Ernst Cassirer's classic 'An Essay on Man'.<br />Deploring the minimal ethics of modernity and dissatisfied with post-modern nihilism, Taylor positions his moral theory in the Aristotelean tradition of 'ethos'. But Taylor does not embrace a pre-defined, teleological destiny. Rather, his premise is that in articulating 'the self' we will discover who we are, what we are supposed to do and where we are going. <br />Taylor's quest into what made man into what he is, is traced back to classic Greek thought and Augustinian theology. Subsequently the author takes us to early modernity: from Locke, via Neoplatonists like Shaftesbury, to the period of Romanticism. Eventually this odyssee of the mind is germinating into present-day man as a self-expressing creature.<br />The richness of Taylor's argumentation is often dazzling; here speaks a man of wide and deep erudition, an authoritative voice of intellectual history, seemingly equally at home in science, history and the arts.<br />In the post-modern wilderness of de-construction, Taylor's articulate and subtle history of mentality is an intellectual joy.	2000-10-01
US	50987513	RDI2ABEWLEGJU	081121169X	370430214	She Was a Queen (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Palace intrigues in medieval Burma	Collis is also a great story-teller, taking the reader into a mysterious oriental court, with its intrigues and conspiracies: a scheming chief minister, a decadent young ruler and a strong-willed woman, desperately trying to hold a desintegrating country together.<br />Although originally written in 1937, the book of Pwa Saw can now also be read as an analogy of Aung San Suy Kyi's current-day battle with the ruling junta: two amazing women struggling through a crucial period in their country's history.	2000-09-27
US	50987513	RG1B8S0C2IJE4	0708913903	363217871	A Suitable Case For Corruption (U)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Our Man in Tripoli	A political thriller with a human touch, that is how one could describe this book about a coup against Qaddafi by British author Norman Lewis. Set in Libya and Egypt - it depicts the moral deterioration of a journalist at the hands of unscrupulous newspaper editors, scheming ministry of information officials, intimidating secret agents and shady arms dealers. <br />Blessed with an exceptional ability for observation, Norman Lewis established his reputation first and foremost as a travel writer. Literary giants such as Graham Greene called him one of the best in the trade. In 'A Suitable Case for Corruption' he has applied the same talent to fiction. giving a masterful description of a man's downfall amidst the decadence of expatriate life in a sinister North-African country.<br />If you like the atmosphere of 'Casablanca' and enjoy reading Le Carré, then this is a book for you.	2000-09-27
US	50987513	RTSJD2HKR8FX0	0404168078	592130345	Lords of the Sunset: A Tour in the Shan States	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Golden Triangle as it used to be	In the 1930s Maurice Collis traveled through the Shan states, which later became known as &quot;The Golden Triangle&quot; an area, gaining notoriety as the world's foremost producer of opium. Although he had served for more than twenty years as a colonial administrator in British Burma, he never had the opportunity to visit the Northeastern corner known as the land of Shan people. The Shan are a distinct nation, very different from their fellow-Burmese with whom they are forced to cohabitate because of historical fate. Culturally the Shan are more closely related to the Thai and Lao.<br />The amalgamation of 33 Shan states were at the time ruled by what the Shan called 'Sao Paw' or 'Celestial Overlords'. Collis toured most of these states and visited a number of Sao Paw. He was struck by both the richness of traditional Shan culture and the sophistication of their rulers. Some of them had been educated at the best British universities and a few had even married English wives. <br />Collis was a very observant traveler and history has proven him right. Visiting when Japan was making incursions into Chinese territory and using increasingly belligerent language, Collis predicted that in case of a Japanese thrust into South East Asia towards Singapore, the invasion would go right through Shan territory. During the Second World War this 'Burma Road'- the corridor between China and the Indian Ocean - was indeed vehemently contested by Japanese and Allied forces.<br />Collis saw also internal trouble brewing. With their distinct culture and history the Sao Paws were carefully announcing to their British overlords that they would prefer to opt out of Burma when independence was granted. However their efforts to obtain autonomy were futile. The forceful entry of Shan states has been one of the major causes of the political unrest in Burma today.<br />Lords of the Sunset is an insightful book about a fascinating period in the history of a remarkable people.	2000-09-27
US	50987513	R2KX96HWJF6CGH	0811209725	432823276	Land of the Great Image	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Among the Arakanese	In the early 17th Century Friar Manrique set out from the Portuguese enclave in what is now Bangladesh to explore the fable borderland of Arakan. Based on contemporary accounts, author Maurice Collis, a former British colonial administrator who served himself in the region, tells the harrowing story of a missionary's adventures among hostile natives, pirates, Portuguese colonists and his Buddhist counterparts at the Arakanese court. The title of the book refers to a sacred, golden statue of the Lord Buddha, which was the center of a cult of veneration in Mrauk-U, the capital of Arakan.<br />A very knowledgeable historian and talent story-teller, Collis places the friar's tale in its historical setting, touching upon Portuguese imperialism, the spread of Buddhism and the history of the sacred image itself.<br />Originally published in 1943 it is a good thing that this excellent work has been re-issued.	2000-09-27
US	50987513	RDGJHAY89K799	0805055347	345164845	Kalimantaan: A Novel	Books	4	20	21	N	N	C.S. Godshalk the memsahib's Conrad?	Upon release of her debut novel Kalimantaan in 1998, award-winning short story writer C.S. Godshalk was dubbed 'the memsahib's Conrad' by the Sunday Times.<br />The novel, indeed reminiscent of Joseph Conrad's Lord Jim, is  based on the life of James Brooke. During the golden age of British  imperialism, this 19th century adventurer carved out a small piece of the  East Indies for himself. First founding the settlement of Kuching on the  island of Borneo he was later recognized as the 'White Rajah' of  Sarawak.<br />In Kalimantaan (which incidentally means 'Island of raw sago' in  the Dayak language) the story is mainly told from the perspective of  Amelia, wife of Gideon Barr (the fiction version of James Brooke). After  ten years in the wilderness Barr has returned to England to find a bride.  The young woman of his choice, Amelia Mumm, accompanies her husband back to  Borneo. What follows is the tale of a Victorian woman's experiences in an  alien and often frightening environment.<br />Godshalk is a great stylist,  with an astounding command of language. Blending fiction with historical  and anthropological facts, she recreates the brooding atmosphere of the  island's interior, where these Victorian pioneers were more or less  engulfed by the Malay and Dayak culture: mysterious and impenetrable like  the forest itself. There is for example a chilling description of a  headhunting campaign.<br />However, although the book depicts a very vivid  picture of the situation in Barr's little empire, the plot remains somewhat  thin. In this respect it is not always clear how the vast array of  characters introduced into the story are supposed to contribute to it. As a  result of this multitude of personae the development of their characters  leaves something wanting too.<br />Unfortunately, this is also true for Gideon  Barr. It seems as if the author has taken to heart the warning which she  lets one of the minor characters in the book give to Barr's cousin and  rival,Richard Hogg. In a letter their uncle Jared Heath writes that in the  East 'complex souls do not do well' and he himself had 'clung to his  two-dimensionality like a raft'.<br />The most intriguing figure in the book  is Richard Hogg, who rules over one of the remoter district's of Barr's  realm. He is revered by his tribesmen, who refer to him as 'Tuan Mudah' or  heir-apparent, and whom he calls in turn 'my Dyaks'. He is a brooding man,  with a dark mindset and as such a 'true denizen of the place'.<br />The  incomplete glossary of Malay and Dayak terms I find somewhat irritating. To  add to the flavour the text is spiced up with numerous words from the  native languages. However, while some words that might be expected to be  more or less commonly known such as adat, imam and kongsi are in the  glossary, one looks in vain for angat, langkan, parang and sabut.<br />Despite  these flaws, Kalimantaan is a delightful book. While it may be a bit  premature to put the author in the same category of great storytellers such  as Kipling, Conrad or Marquez, I look forward to her next one.	1999-09-11
