US	50989966	R12UUBB5743XM6	1842930265	945665788	James, the Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Jesus is really my brother	Robert Eisenman was the leading figure in the movement to free the Dead Sea Scrolls and make them all public, which was essential to start understanding what happened twenty centuries ago around Jesus. The present book is the result of his lifelong research in Middle East religious history. First the method. He brings together all documents available from the end of the 1st century BC to the beginning of the 3rd century CE. He considers all that is common but that does not give him the truth. For him the truth may come, and any interpretation can only come, from the differences in overlapping documents. He considers all documents are ideological interpretations of facts and stylistic rewriting of these same facts. The New Testament is a complete rewriting in Greek (he uses the concept of overwrites) of previous documents (he does not specify what they were : probably oral tradition in local semitic languages). He tries to decipher the rewriting and discover the buried version, using the method invented and devised by Kenneth Burke in his logology and his approach of Augustine. And it is the different elements he can find in other documents that lead him along the way to a reasonable and effective interpretation. Second the style. His extremely detailed work leads him to many repetitions of documents and facts in the whole book. It is circular, but each document or fact that is used several times, is used every single time in different conditions and thus helps build a different interpretation and thus gets a different meaning. We have to be patient and very humble in our search for truth, because one fact can have a great number of values and interpretations. That is the style at book level. If we go down at chapter and subchapter levels we have the same circularity but this time because the author threads up facts one after the other in a continuous flow of data from which he eventually gets his interpretation. The discourse is syncretic and thus may give you a vertigo. But it is the only way to proceeed : lines of data from which you draw a conclusion or rather a hypothesis from which you are going to work on. Now the general ideas. Jesus had three brothers, James the Just (minorized in James the Less, and there was only one James), Simon the Zealot, Judas the Zealot (but also Thomas and many other names among which Jude), and one sister, Mary Salome or Salome. The author concentrates on the brothers. First he denounces the multiplication of some names like James, Mary, Judas, Simon, etc. This is done to erase Jesus' family and to lessen and minorize the brothers who were invested by Jesus himself with the responsibility to further his work, James first, in no way with the intention to create a new religion but to create a new balance of power in the East to impose some freedom for the « Jews » to the Romans, and in no way with the intention of being God, or anything like that though he presented himself as the Son of Man, i.e. the Son of Adam, hence the Second Adam, hence the one announcing the end of this unjust world and the coming of divine judgment. The best case is Judas Iscariot who probably did not exist and was a complete invention drawn from various elements in the Old Testament and historical events of the period. This leads to a very clear interpretation of this family as a Zealot or Nazirite family fighting for a strict observance of the Law of Moses (righteousness, love of God, circumcision, separation : no fornication, no consumption of wine and eventually meat, no riches). The book then follows the historical Saulus and his transformation into Paul and his vision/invention of the Christian religion : no circumcision, no food code, spiritual communion with God and Jesus Christ, and communion in the body and blood of Christ (bread and wine) in a ritual sacrifice for everyone. He attacks James in the early 40s but fails to kill him. He lets the Priests and Herodians attack him in 62 which leads to his being stoned. Paul seems to be the inventor of the Christian religion though Mary's perpetual virginity is contained in Nag Hammadi apocryphal documents attributed to James himself. Obviously a new religion was being born. The nazirite of James' party would have led to strong tensions with the Roman empire. His death led to an all-out confrontation and the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple. But James was spreading his influence  fast and far beyond the Jews. Paul highjacked this movement and produced a religion that was universal and acceptable by the Roman Empire, which was to happen with Constantine : the Christian religion became the unifying element of the Empire. With this book we are at the center of such questions, though I do not accept the conclusion that Jesus was on the same line as James. I think Jesus was trying to bring together the two lines : confrontation and collaboration with the Roman Empire into some independent project that would have guaranteed independence for the Eastern part of the Empire, or maybe even more : a federal conception of the Empire.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUed. Paul seems to be the inventor of the Christian religion though Mary's perpetual virginity is contained in Nag Hammadi apocryphal documents attributed to James himself. Obviously a new religion was being born. The nazirite of James' party would have led to strong tensions with the Roman empire. His death led to an all-out confrontation and the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple. But James was spreading his influence  fast and far beyond the Jews. Paul highjacked this movement and produced a religion that was universal and acceptable by the Roman Empire, which was to happen with Constantine : the Christian religion became the unifying element of the Empire. With this book we are at the center of such questions, though I do not accept the conclusion that Jesus was on the same line as James. I think Jesus was trying to bring together the two lines : confrontation and collaboration with the Roman Empire into some independent project that would have guaranteed independence for the Eastern part of the Empire, or maybe even more : a federal conception of the Empire.  <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-07-25
US	50989966	R1RV1NSX7W5W3N	0748617639	734082338	Hell in Contemporary Literature: Western Descent Narratives since 1945	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Falconer misses the point: Hell as paradise	Rachel Falconer has a hell of a good subject for a fascinating book in her title. Unluckily the book is not up to the title. She only considers the books (and most of them are not fiction but memoirs) that are historically oriented and rooted. She excludes from her study all these authors who deal with Hell, Satan, the devil, etc, in a purely fictional and imaginary way. She also imposes onto her subject a vision she derives from Dante, distorting his Inferno on the pattern of Orpheus's descent to Hell to get Eurydice and his re-ascent, his coming back from Hell. In the Inferno, Dante imagines that he is a tourist there, and he is the one to descend to Hell, hence an intruder and an unwelcome body in this universe. His conclusion is that he is defecated out of Hell by Lucifer himself (Falconer reads Dante coming out of Hell through Lucifer's torso : we must not have the same version of the book). And then he finds himself on a road up to Paradise through Purgatory. The book is full of interesting remarks but she misses Stephen King, Anne Rice, Clive Barker, Peter Straub, and so many others. The book is also biassed by a post-modernistic ideology that makes her consider that the present world is too much of a hellish place to have any future. We can only dive into the Hell of this world and enjoy its exquisite suffering. She also considers that the vision we can have of the world has been radically changed by Auschwitz and the Shoah and that this event is the starting point of modernity, of our modern world, and our post-modern phase in this modern world. Then she pushes the ideological bias one iota further by circumscribing the modern world in its post-modern phase, between Auschwitz and September 11. That is a limited catastrophic and apocalyptic vision of the world. She then misses the attempt of most writers and film-makers since the Second World War to rethink these concepts of Hell, Satan and evil in order to show that Hell is never what we think it is and that Hell is never where we think it is. We may think of the novel Memnoch by Anne Rice. But we have to think of the underworld in Stephen King's Dark Tower saga, an underworld that used to be pure and to support the balance of the overworld, till the overworld, our real world, was perverted and soiled by evil characters and actions, which created an unbalance and a rotting process in the underworld menacing in its turn the overworld. And we have to think of the end : killing the crazy Crimson King, which opens on the same finishing page in the seventh volume as the opening page of the very first volume. Starting all over again, but with a few changes because the conditions of this repeat have slightly changed in the seven volumes of this saga. Falconer gets the idea that nothing is that black or that rosy with Salman Rushdie who obviously considers his moving to the West to be an ascent and not a descent. But she does not develop and it remains marginal in her book though it should have been made the very central starting point of her research.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUt Hell is never where we think it is. We may think of the novel Memnoch by Anne Rice. But we have to think of the underworld in Stephen King's Dark Tower saga, an underworld that used to be pure and to support the balance of the overworld, till the overworld, our real world, was perverted and soiled by evil characters and actions, which created an unbalance and a rotting process in the underworld menacing in its turn the overworld. And we have to think of the end : killing the crazy Crimson King, which opens on the same finishing page in the seventh volume as the opening page of the very first volume. Starting all over again, but with a few changes because the conditions of this repeat have slightly changed in the seven volumes of this saga. Falconer gets the idea that nothing is that black or that rosy with Salman Rushdie who obviously considers his moving to the West to be an ascent and not a descent. But she does not develop and it remains marginal in her book though it should have been made the very central starting point of her research. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br /> <br />	2005-07-13
US	50989966	R233DW7AQ19SJK	2207217892	105310756	Le pape des escargots	Books	5	0	0	N	N	La vouivre est l'Eve vierge et &eacute;ternelle de la terre	Roman du terroir bourguignon qui n'est pas un roman purement r&eacute;gionaliste ou même localiste. Il a un rythme beaucoup trop dynamique pour n'être que cela. Son rythme est, n'en d&eacute;plaise &agrave; l'auteur, un rythme d'abord et avant tout urbain, comme s'il &eacute;tait n&eacute; dans l'Eurostar. Ce n'est pas non plus la naïvet&eacute;, même le culte de la naïvet&eacute; paysanne qui fait son charme. Pas plus que la rudesse et la brutalit&eacute; des r&eacute;actions de ces « culs-terreux » que l'auteur se fait un plaisir de montrer comme des culs-terreux franchement grossiers, mal appris, sans &eacute;ducation, etc, mais avec un cur grand comme une maie et en plus sur la main, et une &eacute;ducation digne d'une encyclop&eacute;die universelle. Cela c'est la mati&egrave;re qui va vendre le bouquin aux gogos citadins qui veulent s'imaginer des &eacute;motions fortes dans nos campagnes, s'ils avaient le cran, le courage, le nez peu sensible et la vue pas trop fragile pour affronter ces rustres des landes et des montagnes. Tout juste assez bons pour qu'on les berne ou pour qu'on leur fasse nettoyer les tympans de nos &eacute;glises. Car en plus ils sont d'une cr&eacute;dulit&eacute; &eacute;poustouflante. Ils croient même que les &eacute;toiles forment vraiment des constellations et que c'est par la d&eacute;cision librement consentie de s'allier que les &eacute;toiles d'une constellation lui donne forme, sens, valeur et puissance. Remarquez la rime. Ce roman tire sa valeur de tout autre chose, mieux de quelquechose que nos citadins en mal de d&eacute;paysement barbare consid&egrave;reront comme un d&eacute;lire de vieil ivrogne sans valeur. C'est tout l'arri&egrave;re-plan radotant et radoteur de La Gazette, ce SDF des campagnes, respect&eacute; et même redout&eacute;, toujours attendu et choy&eacute;, qui plonge des racines immenses dans la pr&eacute;histoire de la Bourgogne, de la France et de l'Europe, c'est &agrave; dire la p&eacute;riode o&ugrave; les Celtes qui ne savaient pr&eacute;tendument pas &eacute;crire occupaient ces contr&eacute;es avant l'arriv&eacute;e des historiques Romains qui eux savaient soi-disamment &eacute;crire. L'&eacute;criture des Celtes, uniquement druidique, sera codifi&eacute;e et am&eacute;lior&eacute;e par les moines B&eacute;n&eacute;dictins quelques si&egrave;cles plus tard (5&egrave;me ou 6&egrave;me). C'est ce contexte th&eacute;orique et mythologique, voire scientifique et technique, qui est la vraie richesse de ce roman : ce roman est une incitation &agrave; pousser une porte de savoir qu'il ne fait qu'entrouvrir. Vous apprendrez ainsi que la terre est l'immense mandorle-vulve naturelle qui donne naissance, fertilis&eacute;e par le soleil, &agrave; la vie tout en restant vierge &eacute;ternellement, du moins tant qu'elle n'est pas viol&eacute;e par les autoroutes, le b&eacute;ton et le macadam. Cette terre est le miroir qui refl&egrave;te les &eacute;toiles qui sont un r&eacute;seau dynamique de circulation de forces et de lumi&egrave;re, de savoir et de puissance, qui se retrouve dans la terre sous la forme des circulations de magn&eacute;tismes, d'eau souterraine ou non, et de tellurisme comme certains appellent ces « radiations » terriennes que l'on pourrait comparer &agrave; la lumi&egrave;re c&eacute;leste. Ce sont ces circulations vitales et vivantes souterraines qui forment ce que l'on appelle la wouivre, la force vitale de la terre. L'homme ne vit que quand il fait se rencontrer en lui la wouivre de la terre et la lumi&egrave;re des &eacute;toiles. Et c'est l'escargot qui repr&eacute;sente la rencontre de ces deux forces qui donnent naissance au mouvement vital universel et cosmique. Ce livre ensuite ouvre &agrave; peine la premi&egrave;re page du deuxi&egrave;me volume de cette encyclop&eacute;die sid&eacute;rale : apprendre comment les B&eacute;n&eacute;dictins ont int&eacute;gr&eacute; ce savoir des Druides et comment ils l'ont repr&eacute;sent&eacute; etmis en sc&egrave;ne pour le rendre actif dans leurs &eacute;glises romanes des 10&egrave;me au 13&egrave;me si&egrave;cles. Le gothique sera la perte de ce savoir qui ne survivra un temps, et trop souvent que comme une simple d&eacute;coration, dans les sculptures. Dans le roman ces sculptures sont un discours, une histoire, une cat&eacute;ch&egrave;se en images qui nous indique le chemin que nous devons suivre vers la force que nous devons capter. Cela se perd dans le gothique primaire, puis brûle dans le gothique flamboyant pour enfin être r&eacute;duit &agrave; un tas de poussi&egrave;re st&eacute;rile &agrave; l'âge du gothique baroque puis rococo. Heureusement la musique compensera ce que l'art-chitecture perdra. Le roman contient un quart de page sur la puissance de cette musique.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUe perd dans le gothique primaire, puis brûle dans le gothique flamboyant pour enfin être réduit à un tas de poussière stérile à lâge du gothique baroque puis rococo. Heureusement la musique compensera ce que lart-chitecture perdra. Le roman contient un quart de page sur la puissance de cette musique.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-07-06
US	50989966	R2ILGWG10CCZCZ	2846820015	246258515	Zig-Bang (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Babel n'est pas aussi simple qu'il y paraît	Ces compositions vocales ne doivent pas être lues car elles ne sont que des sons et Aperghis triche terriblement en &eacute;crivant des morceaux de mots ou de conjugaisons que nous reconnaissons. Ces compositions sont faites pour être entendues, exclusivement entendues, sans le moindre visuel. On a alors des sons avec des consonnes et des voyelles ainsi que des coups de glotte ou des explosions labiales par exemple. Ces sons ne forment en rien des mots et des phrases, mais l'auditeur est un homme, ou une femme d'ailleurs, et son r&eacute;flexe va être de couper le continuum de ces sons en morceaux qui vont devenir d'une façon ou d'une autre un lexique et ensuite il va chercher des structures entre ces morceaux et ces structures deviennent une syntaxe qui donne sens au tout. Rien &agrave; voir avec une langue naturelle existante ou du moins que l'auditeur comprend. L'auditeur fait simplement sa salade avec ses oreilles. Ces textes ont &eacute;t&eacute; mont&eacute;s comme une lecture publique dramatique par la compagnie Irakli qui fait l'erreur de parasiter ce monde sonore et vocal avec du visuel : les grimaces qu'il faut faire pour produire ces sons, les gesticulations corporelles pour produire certaines s&eacute;quences, etc. De plus ils rajoutent des intonations, or les intonations de phrase sont des marques d'une syntaxe qui impose un sens au tout. Et c'est l&agrave; une erreur probablement port&eacute;e par l'&eacute;criture d'Aperghis qui n'a pas utilis&eacute; un alphabet phon&eacute;tique mais des orthographes françaises. Alors que Aperghis produit avec un mat&eacute;riau sonore linguistique explos&eacute; les mêmes effets que Xenakis avec les mat&eacute;riaux sonores instrumentaux explos&eacute;s de la même façon, la mise en voix, en espace et en corps de ces compositions leur enl&egrave;vent l'immense polys&eacute;mie qu'elles portent, qu'elles doivent porter. Et l&agrave; Aperghis exprime un fait fondamental de l'humanit&eacute; : l'effet Tour de Babel. Et il force l'auditeur &agrave; être un homme, c'est &agrave; dire &agrave; chercher des concat&eacute;nations et des s&eacute;quenciations qui vont produire un lexique et une syntaxe et donc une architecture signifiante, ou bien &agrave; être une oreille purement m&eacute;canique qui se laisse bercer par des sons continus et sans le moindre sens. C'est ce que l'on fait, l'un ou l'autre, naturellement quand on est confront&eacute; &agrave; une langue &eacute;trang&egrave;re inconnue. C'est ce que l'humanit&eacute; a toujours fait depuis qu'elle est devenue multilingue, et c'est il y a longtemps. Avez-vous jamais vu pleurer une enfant espagnole &agrave; la simple &eacute;coute d'un po&egrave;me en langue de Boh&egrave;me, du Slovaque j'imagine, auquel elle ne comprend rien, et qui simplement s'excuse en disant que c'est triste ? Mais elle ne comprend pas ce qui est dit. Le mat&eacute;riau linguistique parle donc aux sensations, aux sens, aux &eacute;motions. Avez-vous jamais entendu un motet au sens sinistre (l'homme sur son tas de fumier) en latin que personne ne comprend chant&eacute; avec une luminosit&eacute; solaire par une soprano, et donc &agrave; complet contresens ? Et les gens, qui ne comprennent pas les mots, trouvent cela tr&egrave;s beau et chaleureux alors que c'est une trahison même du sens - et de la musique d'ailleurs puisqu'il s'agit de chanter du mineur comme si c'&eacute;tait du majeur, ce qui est possible malgr&eacute; ce que l'on peut penser. Voil&agrave; la recherche qu'apporte Aperghis &agrave; notre r&eacute;flexion et &agrave; notre sensibilit&eacute;. Ce n'est pas de l'ordre du dramatique, mais de l'ordre de la musique, pas de l'ordre du visuel, mais de l'ordre du pur sonore. Et cela doit le rester. Fermez vos yeux si vous allez &eacute;couter la Compagnie Irakli et jouissez du potentiel architectural sonore pur que cela peut et doit être et rester, comme si c'&eacute;tait une &eacute;mission de radio..<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUséquenciations qui vont produire un lexique et une syntaxe et donc une architecture signifiante, ou bien à être une oreille purement mécanique qui se laisse bercer par des sons continus et sans le moindre sens. Cest ce que lon fait, lun ou lautre, naturellement quand on est confronté à une langue étrangère inconnue. Cest ce que lhumanité a toujours fait depuis quelle est devenue multilingue, et cest il y a longtemps. Avez-vous jamais vu pleurer une enfant espagnole à la simple écoute dun poème en langue de Bohème, du Slovaque jimagine, auquel elle ne comprend rien, et qui simplement sexcuse en disant que cest triste ? Mais elle ne comprend pas ce qui est dit. Le matériau linguistique parle donc aux sensations, aux sens, aux émotions. Avez-vous jamais entendu un motet au sens sinistre (lhomme sur son tas de fumier) en latin que personne ne comprend chanté avec une luminosité solaire par une soprano, et donc à complet contresens ? Et les gens, qui ne comprennent pas les mots, trouvent cela très beau et chaleureux alors que cest une trahison même du sens  et de la musique dailleurs puisquil sagit de chanter du mineur comme si cétait du majeur, ce qui est possible malgré ce que lon peut penser. Voilà la recherche quapporte Aperghis à notre réflexion et à notre sensibilité. Ce nest pas de lordre du dramatique, mais de lordre de la musique, pas de lordre du visuel, mais de lordre du pur sonore. Et cela doit le rester. Fermez vos yeux si vous allez écouter la Compagnie Irakli et jouissez du potentiel architectural sonore pur que cela peut et doit être et rester, comme si cétait une émission de radio..<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-06-19
US	50989966	R1SPYMS00CR3H9	0618107347	555352465	The Scarlet Letter (New Riverside Editions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Pearl in the messianic Jerusalem	This novel has become more than a classic. It is a myth, a cult. To cover this romance properly we would have to explore so many levels and details that thousands of pages would not be enough. I will concentrate on the child, Pearl. We must keep in mind that the twelve gates of the messianic Jerusalem in the Book of Revelation are twelve pearls. Hence the child is the gate to this messianic Jerusalem that the Puritans pretended they were building in New England. This gives the fundamental meaning of the child in the book : it is a direct criticism of any puritan, moralistic, fundamentalistic we would say today, approach of religion. Especially since this Pearl will disappear at the end of the book and exist somewhere else. Boston was not the messianic Jerusalem the Puritans had in mind. The second element is that Pearl is seen as unchristian because she is born out of « fornication », « adultery », though in fact out of passion and love. This is clearly shown by the rejection this Pearl is forced to suffer along with her mother, as if this Pearl that should open onto the messianic Jerusalem and the trees of life that bear twelve crops of fruit a year and whose leaves are the cure for the pagans (Rev. 22:2) was opening on the wilderness, or at best the ocean since she lives on a peninsula. There is no cure in Boston for those who are not perfect according to the decrees of the Puritans. There is no forgiveness, no tolerance, no freedom either there. One essential Christian value is missing and it is love. Pearl is also the symbol of what must go along with forgiveness and love, which is repentance, but not the repentance that is imposed as a punishment onto the « sinner », but the repentance that comes from the soul, from God, from the heart. The book clearly shows that public - though here imposed - repentance is torture but a bearable torture that strengthens the victim of the punishment, whereas secret repentance is an unbearable self-inflicted torture that gnaws at the heart, the soul, and the body of the person who is refused the possibility of public repentance. And this is because there is no forgiveness in this society, no possibility for the sinner, no matter who he is and what position he holds, to be forgiven if he repairs the harm he has done, in this case if he marries the mother, since the husband of this mother has disappeared and did disappear two years before. Pearl becomes the symbol of this forgiveness at the very end of the novel, the being who is willing to forgive publicly in front of those who had refused to forgive for more than seven years. In other words Pearl becomes the signpost on the road to love and also some kind of angel or even archangel who shows the way to human salvation, and God's salvation is always on the side of repentance, reparation, forgiveness and love, never on the side of permanent or irreversible human punishment. In fact the only judge is God, the only one who has the power to judge, what's more to try, is God, and God has entrusted humanity with the mission to enable sinners to repent and be forgiven, not to punish, or even torture or execute. Pearl is thus the symbol of an open reading of the Gospels and in a way the signpost on the road to some better future for human beings on earth. This better future is definitely expressed by the post mortem contrition and repentance of Hester's first husband who adopts Pearl as his heiress, hence his own child. His repentance comes after seven years of vengeance, but it does come, and he is the only one to repent among the hostile people in Boston. If thus the sinners' child, Pearl, is redeemed at the end of the book and escapes the punishing puritans, it is because she represents light, sunshine, God's illumination. She is the star that should lead us on the way to the future on earth and beyond : forgiveness and love, and we all must respect love as a divine and sacred value that is stronger than any law, rule, habit or custom, and the lack if not the refusal of respect for love is the direst and ugliest sin a human being, a creature of God can commit. Hawthorne is the author that illuminates best the worst gothic context and produces a shiny romance with the darkest and bleakest material.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUlack if not the refusal of respect for love is the direst and ugliest sin a human being, a creature of God can commit. Hawthorne is the author that illuminates best the worst gothic context and produces a shiny romance with the darkest and bleakest material. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-06-12
US	50989966	R1PA2HP1UFXD0D	0520016106	754413521	The Rhetoric of Religion: Studies in Logology	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	Religious discourse has a deep inner spiritual strength	Kenneth Burke is one great mind of the 20th century. In this book he studies religion, particularly Saint Augustine's writings and Confessions. Through this particular study he reveals his method that is one great tool indeed. He considers language to be made of signifying elements that are the association of a certain object (sounds or letters) and a meaning. Those elements are brought together through morphology or syntax to build compound words or sentences. But Kenneth Burke goes further than Saussure and considers the signifying elements that are repeated in a text and how they are positioned in relation with one another. It is from these networks of signifying elements that he derives the deeper meaning of a text. The relations can be built along lines of similarity or difference, or even opposition. The networked elements can be similar as for their sounds or letters, though different as for their morphological or syntactic environments, or actually opposed morphologically or syntactically, or simply semantically. This is extremely complex and rich and it leads to very powerful remarks. The second step is in line with the first. No individual element, sentence, image, simile, or any other linguistic entity has a meanig all by itself. The real meaning comes from the networks in which it is positioned and how it is positioned in this network. The third step is that the stating of any signifying element implies the possible stating of its antagon. Order implies disorder, time timelessness, etc. The creation of perfection implies imperfection and God states a thou-shalt-not which implies disobedience, doing what is not supposed to be done. This is fundamental. A society does not forbid something that does not exist. If a law says we must not do something it is because it is actually performed. If a society does not forbid something it can be because it does not exist at all or because it is perfectly seen as acceptable. The absence of a law does not imply anything one way or the other. The existence of a law implies that what it forbids exists and what it authorizes exists too, as well as, in both cases, what it does not forbid or what it does not allow. Kenneth Burke injects this approach into his linguistic reading of religious texts. This is extremely powerful and you have to read the book to see how he exploits such principles. From Genesis Kenneth Burke finds out time was created by God as his first creative act, hence it implies that God's eternity before creation was timeless and that God's eternity after the end will be timeless. Eternity is not the flow of time without a beginning nor an end, but eternity is the absolute absence of both flowing and time, hence eternity is a certain static present that fills in the whole conceivable expanse of duration. Time in this conception is only contained within the alpha of the beginning and the omega of the end. If we consider the Fall, it is the result of the thou-shalt-not that implies temptation and disobedience. The Fall implies then a salvation but this salvation can only be gained through a sacrifice that will reprieve the Fall. Burke follows this sacrifice through the whole Bible to show how it is brought to perfection with Christ : God sacrifices his own son to redeem men and women equally and give them the possibility to choose the right actions through perseverance that can only come from the grace God has given them, the grace that enables them to recapture their virginity in their communion in the reenacted sacrifice of the son that will reinforce the will of men and women to persevere in doing the right things. It is this grace and this communion in the reenacting of the sacrifice that boosts the will that makes perseverance possible, which is the Holy Spirit in man. This is the Word in its creating power and it implies communion with that godly energy, as well as with the sacrifice of the son and with other human beings. The conclusion that we can draw from this book is that the concept of God comes from the desire of man to transcend his material limits. He is subjected to time, hence he invents timelessness as perfect eternity. He is subjected to natural conditions, hence he invents supernatural conditions beyond his natural environment. A perfect religion, and there are many, will state that time cannot exists without timelessness, the flow of time without static eternity, nature without supernature, and that reality is the union and perfect balance between these antagons, hence static immobility that is seen as precarious from man's natural experience and having to be eternally regained or rebuilt from both man's and God's points of view, man's both natural and supernatural, material and mental experience. This approach regains a real understanding and the true power of religion : its inner logic, its inner energy. It is no longer an opiate but an empowerment and it will always be that provided it does not refuse to see changing natural conditions and to change the supernatural construct that needs to change along with natural conditions if the balance between the two has to be maintained. Beyond natural material elements man will always conceive of stronger forces and energies that are the real engine of our changing world, our changing time, and will dream of a world where change will no longer be necessary because perfection will be reached, hence timeless permanence. If we know this is a dream that drives us in life, we can assume it and hence accept to live in the real world and try to make it approach this dreamed perfection.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUs book is that the concept of God comes from the desire of man to transcend his material limits. He is subjected to time, hence he invents timelessness as perfect eternity. He is subjected to natural conditions, hence he invents supernatural conditions beyond his natural environment. A perfect religion, and there are many, will state that time cannot exists without timelessness, the flow of time without static eternity, nature without supernature, and that reality is the union and perfect balance between these antagons, hence static immobility that is seen as precarious from man's natural experience and having to be eternally regained or rebuilt from both man's and God's points of view, man's both natural and supernatural, material and mental experience. This approach regains a real understanding and the true power of religion : its inner logic, its inner energy. It is no longer an opiate but an empowerment and it will always be that provided it does not refuse to see changing natural conditions and to change the supernatural construct that needs to change along with natural conditions if the balance between the two has to be maintained. Beyond natural material elements man will always conceive of stronger forces and energies that are the real engine of our changing world, our changing time, and will dream of a world where change will no longer be necessary because perfection will be reached, hence timeless permanence. If we know this is a dream that drives us in life, we can assume it and hence accept to live in the real world and try to make it approach this dreamed perfection. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-05-09
US	50989966	R3UDO1RL0GY2VY	0452264790	198660077	Tar Baby	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Ralph Ellison meets Samuel Beckett	Uncle Remus and his tar-baby reigns ahigh on this amazing book as the absolute lord and ultimate trap he is. Three black couples confronted to one white one. Where is the trap ? The trap is the white mirage represented by this white couple. The mirage is little by little unveiled for what it is : an appearance that covers up an ugly and bleak human reality under the surface of the money they made on the back of the blacks by selling them some candy. This novel is deeply inspired by European playwrights. We recognize Ionesco in the suffering of a black woman due to her being reduced to a sex object, a bitch that the black dogs come and sniff for recognition before taking her. We recognize Beckett and his famous Godot in the son of the white family, a son who will never come for the special Christmas party prepared by the mother who is revealed as a tormentor. The alienation of the black couple who have served the white family for a lifetime is exposed, not so much in their unconsciousness, because they know they are alienated, but in their acceptance of it because it provides stability, in contrast with another couple of servants who do not even have names for these first two couples and are dismissed by the white boss because they tried to steal a few apples, a rare exotic fruit in this tropical west indian island where the action takes place. The whole action is concentrated on the third black couple : the orphan niece of the lifetime black servants who was educated by the white family and a black runaway who is the tar-baby in the book. He is the one who sees the alienation of the blacks in this white colonial society. He knows how the whites are destroying the world and eventually themselves in this attempt to possess and transform nature by killing anything that stands in their way or enslaving anybody that they need. He knows the racial divide and cannot evade it. He is the tar-baby of the black world of the night that breathes and haunts the darkest side of life. He doesn't even have a real name. He is the trap that will try to capture the attention and then the affection of the niece of the black servants. Will he succeed ? No, because it is impossible. How will he fail ? That is the whole novel. Will the niece get stuck in this tar-baby ? No, because there are many other tar-babies to fall for. How will she evade him ? That is the whole novel. What will happen to him when his being the tar-baby trap he is supposed to be will fail and be rejected ? That is the whole novel. A blind black woman will lead him back to his black inferno over a black sea in the blackest of all nights. The book then becomes an allegory of black fate in America. Black men are trapped in their historical heritage and are unable to liberate themselves from this mental and social slavery, in a word the cultural slavery it has become over the decades of liberation and education. They are unable to see that they have to climb over the fragile and perilous rocks of this heritage, beaten up by the waves of the demented reality of life and made slippery by the foam and scum of the ocean of reality, through education and social ambition, unable to see that they can do it if they want to do it. Women are lured into being their accessories by their mutual (both coming from men and women) sexual desires and their need to be needed by a man. To escape this fate they can only fly away to some European white man who will worship them and put them on a pedestal. But will they really be free ? Will they really be what they are : black women with a complete potential and personality or just some fetichised sex object ? The novel is particularly pessimistic about the possibility for these sons and daughters of black slavery in America to find a way to liberation and realization without betraying their forefathers, without forgetting where they are coming from, without losing their souls to the devil of sentimental stability, the worshipping love of some white man, a mirror of their dreams that is fathomless and at the same time empty. You can escape the tar-baby of black historical heritage but is it not only to fall into the trap of the tar-baby of the fetichising and alienating looking glass of the whites ? Is there any real liberation for these black men and women in this white society ? Toni Morrison delivers a chilling message about the impossibility to escape from this reality except by evading the question.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, a mirror of their dreams that is fathomless and at the same time empty. You can escape the tar-baby of black historical heritage but is it not only to fall into the trap of the tar-baby of the fetichising and alienating looking glass of the whites ? Is there any real liberation for these black men and women in this white society ? Toni Morrison delivers a chilling message about the impossibility to escape from this reality except by evading the question. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-04-23
US	50989966	RMZ4ASWHDNNBD	0452283868	921712930	Sula (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Women are the core of a community	Toni Morrison got a well-deserved Nobel Prize for literature. This particular novel is about a woman, practically from birth and to definitely more than twenty years beyond her real death. This woman is living in a black community and as such the novel is a black novel. More about it later. What is absolutely surprising is that most of what is said and described in this novel, the poverty of this community, the rejection and segregation it is the victim of, is practically entirely contained in the black community itself. It gives this novel a universal dimension and the poverty, misery and at times blindness Morrison describes could apply nearly word for word to any European poor working class social group. « The purpose of evil was to survive it and they determined .. to survive floods, white people, tuberculosis, famine and ignorance. » (p.90) Replace « white people » by « rich people » or « bosses » and you will have the working-class literature of nearly any European country in the 20th century, D.H. Lawrence for one or J.B. Priestley for two. That leads me to what Toni Morrison says in some of her non-fiction books or lectures. She says that the whole white literature of the USA cannot exist without the presence in the books or at least in the author's mind of the Blacks as a beyond-the-white-frontier territory. Here it is absolutely clear that black literature in the USA cannot exist without the presence in the books themselves or at least in the author's mind of the Whites as a beyond-the-black-frontier territory. This book is a perfect demonstration of the point. It is also a great book because of the great richness of the psychology of her characters, here only women as main characters. She shows marvelously how what could seem to be erratic or crazy in the attitudes of some women is in fact the result of intricate crossings between experience and situations, one woman, in this case essentially Sula, bringing together what she came across in her life and among other elements several models, her mother, her grandmother and her best friend. But she is a failure because she never gets away from the models and since these models are contradictory that leads her to a suicidal return to her sources where she can die alone, rejected and selfrighteously rejecting everyone else even her best friend. Morrison goes just a little further by showing how her coming back and then her death can dictate some changes in the community, including a final suicidal demonstration and near-riot after her death. Rejected, Sula brings better attitudes in the community out of fear, but dead, she liberates negative attitudes out of a feeling of retrieved freedom. The book in other words explores the far-reaching presence and influence of some women in a community upon all the women and the men of this community. Women become central in such a human group and Morrison exploits this idea as no one has done it before.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUong other elements several models, her mother, her grandmother and her best friend. But she is a failure because she never gets away from the models and since these models are contradictory that leads her to a suicidal return to her sources where she can die alone, rejected and selfrighteously rejecting everyone else even her best friend. Morrison goes just a little further by showing how her coming back and then her death can dictate some changes in the community, including a final suicidal demonstration and near-riot after her death. Rejected, Sula brings better attitudes in the community out of fear, but dead, she liberates negative attitudes out of a feeling of retrieved freedom. The book in other words explores the far-reaching presence and influence of some women in a community upon all the women and the men of this community. Women become central in such a human group and Morrison exploits this idea as no one has done it before. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-03-27
US	50989966	R1UEBHOWHI32TL	0674673778	155326162	Playing in the Dark : Whiteness and the Literary Imagination	Books	4	14	24	N	N	Good, and yet a writer may not be the best critic	Toni Morrison is excellent in these three lectures. She analyzes some white American novels brilliantly and shows how the whole structure and meaning can be re-read from the presence of what she calls Africanism at the back of the mind of the author and at times in the novel itself. Her approach is far-reaching and does not only take into consideration the presence of a black person, but also the deeply metaphorical presence of a dark side in the author's imagination and novels, a dark side that informs the whole work and structures the plot and the story. She tries to explain this presence of this dark side by showing how the Europeans who fled Europe to come to America for a new start arrived with no real model to imitate, and that they had to structure their own personalities from scratch. This could only be done by finding an alter ego that will embody the « other » any person needs to build their personalities. This « other », she says, is naturally the African slave that brings together several differences that make him perfectly easy to become the object of this ego-building : social alienation (slaves), cultural and linguistic alienation (they have been torn away from their cultures and languages) and racial alienation (blacks). The last alienation makes the other two absolutely irreversible because it cannot in any way be changed or hidden. This explains the structuring power of race or rather blackness in this society whose hierarchical structure is never denied or even questioned. Yet I remain slightly unsatisfied in the absolutely uniqueness of this experience. The Europeans when they arrived found the Indians and they tried to make them subservient and even slaves. They could not do it because these Indians did not survive very long in such a position and the most enterprising ones, Cherokees, Iroquois, Seminoles, etc, learned very fast and easily conquered their autonomy and developed a viable economic system. So the Europeans turned to Africans who were rather easily turned into slaves, with no pangs of conscience for the Europeans because they were not natives, so the land was not theirs, and they were black, hence absolutely different by embodying century old fantasms and fears among Europeans who discarded black as being devilish, satanic, dirty, etc. Here we have to insist on one element that Toni Morrison discards too fast : the Europeans had to exterminate the un-enslavable Indians to get their land and then bring the Blacks to America. The Indian genocide is the primary condition for the enslavement of the Blacks. The second element is that she seems to consider the European Enlightenment justified this enslavement of the Blacks. Here I have to disagree because Monstesquieu, for one, and quite many others like Rousseau, Diderot, it is true mainly French people, rejected this approach that pretended Blacks were not human and even had no souls. This French Enlightenment actually produced the abolition of slavery by the French Revolution, even if Napoleon reinstated it later on. That would have enabled Toni Morrison to answer a question she does not ask because she has no answer : where did the abolitionists come from, where did abolitionism come from, if what she describes is the only connection with Europe ? But there is even another question. What she describes is in perfect agreement with the logic and dialectic of the « subject » as advocated by Lacan. Since she quotes Marie Cardinal she should have found out about Lacan. In absolutely any society so far (no developed class-less society has ever existed on the planet) when a subject rejects the « Authority » pole of his personality, authority that is embodied in someone else, in the « social other », that person is dominated by his impulses, positive and negative, and he becomes his only master. Then he has to rebuild this pole of his personality, and the « other » becomes the one he is going to reject. In all our societies there has been an« other ». She hints at social alienation and evokes cultural and linguistic alienation. But our societies have always found a scapegoat that became that « other » they could easily reject, enslave or even massacre : the Jews, the protestants or the catholics, the moslems, Arabs, gypsies, or even women as for that, and for some today in our lay societies priests and believers of any denomination, and our societies can even use one category of the past to build up the rejected group : fascists, nazis, stalinists, maoists, etc. The only point she has is the over-determination that color adds to this phenomenon, though Arabs or Moslems in Europe today, and for centuries in the past, qualify for that kind of racist attitude, and we all know about agism, sexism, homophobic attitudes and many others. She though has an enormous point when she says that invisibility does not solve the problem because the Blacks may be invisible in language, literature, and other politically correct discourses, but they remain visible and at times hauntingly overvisible in the minds of people. One cannot decree the end of racism with a law or a couple of anti-racist classes in school. I think that Ralph Ellison saw more and farther when he said « we have to be one and many at the same time », or when he defended democratic diversity in society and in each social or racial group of this society.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUShe hints at social alienation and evokes cultural and linguistic alienation. But our societies have always found a scapegoat that became that  other  they could easily reject, enslave or even massacre : the Jews, the protestants or the catholics, the moslems, Arabs, gypsies, or even women as for that, and for some today in our lay societies priests and believers of any denomination, and our societies can even use one category of the past to build up the rejected group : fascists, nazis, stalinists, maoists, etc. The only point she has is the over-determination that color adds to this phenomenon, though Arabs or Moslems in Europe today, and for centuries in the past, qualify for that kind of racist attitude, and we all know about agism, sexism, homophobic attitudes and many others. She though has an enormous point when she says that invisibility does not solve the problem because the Blacks may be invisible in language, literature, and other politically correct discourses, but they remain visible and at times hauntingly overvisible in the minds of people. One cannot decree the end of racism with a law or a couple of anti-racist classes in school. I think that Ralph Ellison saw more and farther when he said  we have to be one and many at the same time , or when he defended democratic diversity in society and in each social or racial group of this society. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-03-20
US	50989966	R36EKC3RLCZK2O	0743271521	217051879	Will They Ever Trust Us Again?: Letters From the War Zone	Books	5	10	14	N	N	The Internet as the tool for public opinion to get global	The genre « Letters from the Front » has been used a lot in history. It is a complex genre that can lead to many things. Letters from GIs in the Second World War were used by linguists to analyze many linguistic points concerning the linguistic competence of young American men of average and low education, for example. Michael Herr used letters from the Vietnam war to write his book Dispatches, for another example. Here Michael Moore uses sollicited letters he received via email on his website from various military personnel in Iraq, then in other countries around the world, then from relatives and friends of the aforesaid. The sole subject of these letters is the war in Iraq, even if many touch other subjects, and the book was published as part of Michael Moore's campaign against the reelection of George W. Bush as President of the US in november 2004, Bush II as Chomsky calls him in his recent book Hegemony or Survival, America's Quest for Global Dominance. Michael Moore's book is then more of a pamphlet than just a plain collection of letters, especially with the six-page appendix and all the actions people can do to « Support Our Troops ». If it were only that the book would not deserve any coverage here. But it is a lot more than that and I am going to point out a few elements that have to be taken into account to assess the real value of the book.<br /><br />A New Prophet ?<br />The book sounds personal from the very start because nearly all the letters praise and thank Michael Moore for his good work and ask him to go on with spreading the good word. They are particularly laudative about the film Farenheit 9/11. They treat him as a prophet and they rely on him for the struggle and battle they see ahead. This is typically American, this christian inspiration in the wake of Old Testament prophets. He speaks and they approve and follow. What is at stake here is democracy. It does not work properly in the US. Instead of following prophets or preachers, people should think by themselves, then unite and start working together towards their common goal. This first impression is the very caricature of democracy we can see so often in the US : the individual politicians do all the thinking, preaching their « truth » and then people vote. History is full of aborted democratic elections that led to catastrophes. Hitler was elected.<br /><br />A New Medium<br />And yet the book is a revolution in our political democracy. Why is that ? Because it is the emergence - in an emergency mind you - of the new medium that the Internet is becoming. Everyone has the power to speak their words, to express their opinions and to circulate them all over the world to millions of people. It is the emergence of the medium that builds what Noam Chomsky calls the second superpower in the world, public opinion. And here the letters are crystal-clear about the traditional media that do not carry out their mission to bring the news, all the news and nothing but the news to the people. They do not and the President has even banned some news from being published. This emergence of the Internet transforms the problem of political consciousness and political action. « ...An interactive website where soldiers are able to express themselves freely. » (p. 19) It is the Internet that showed the first pictures of the tortures in American prisons in Iraq or even in Guantanamo. The world has not been globalized only at the military level after the fall of the Wall in 1989. The world has been globalized by the invention of the Internet that enables anyone to have some weight in the world. This public opinion can be moved and the Internet is becoming the modern tool of expression for those who had been systematically rejected into silence in the old days. The « silent majority » of not too long ago has to be reexamined. This idea makes the book all the more pathetic, symbolic and admirable because the world is changing and the Internet has become a battleground at the level of the world with the World Summit on Information Society that is being prepared in Geneva and that has to take place in Tunis in November. In Tunis of all places, where a good dozen of young people have been thrown in jail for having downloaded sites that were forbidden. You should follow these debates in Geneva to understand. Three groups of stakeholders, the Governments (the UN), the Private Sector (business) and Civil Society (NGOs from all over the world). One of the stake is Internet Governance at the present moment in the hands of ICANN, based in California, gathering the main internet related businesses and under the authority of the Department of Commerce in Washington DC. It is little known that this Department of Commerce asked ICANN to obliterate the root « iq » at the beginning of the war, hence cutting all Internet relations between Iraq and the world and in Iraq itself. The protest was strong enough to make them back down. This book is the tip of an enormous global iceberg and an alliance seems to be in the building intelligently led by China that easily gets third world countries and many others behind her, represented as she is by Mrs Hu, a University Professor, today a Counsellor on these questions in Beijing who personally knew the inventors of the Internet in California 35 years ago.<br /><br />A New Outlook on American Troops<br />American troops are far from being united in their way of looking at the war. An important proportion is shown as being opposed to the war and some facts are given to support this atmosphere. Most of these soldiers come from poor families and areas in the US. Most of them enlisted to discover the world, to get some training, and to get a free college education. The recruiting officers told them that they will never really be engaged in a war. They believed them and they find themselves in a war. The book reveals they were carried away by the patriotic enthusiasm that followed the tragic attacks of September 11. But they are also convinced of their mission to defend the Constitution and democracy at home and everywhere in the world. Then they saw what was happening. They discovered they had been lied to by the President, their Commander in Chief, about WMDs. They discovered that they did not have enough defensive and offensive equipment, even personal reinforcements for their protective clothes. They discovered that they were not fighting against soldiers who deserted as soon as they were seen arriving, but against civilians. « He killed a civilian woman his first week in Iraq and didn't have the stomach to fight after the incident. » (p. 176) « It's hard listening to my platoon sergeant saying, `'If you decide you want to kill a civilian that looks threatening, shoot him. I'd rather fill out paperwork than get one of my soldiers killed by some raghead.'' » (p. 24) « Everyone here [South Korea] is excited about going so that they can kill someone. » (p. 44) They also discover that if a wounded soldier dies in the plane transferring him or her outside Iraq, or later, he or she will not be considered as a war victim, as having died in action, and no statistics are given about these wounded soldiers who die later on. The casualties are underestimated. And they also discover that even medical equipment is short and that some medical personnel must ask their relatives in the US to make and send some scrubs to have enough sterile scrubs for their work (p. 190). What's more they discover PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) and the fact that it destroys the life of soldiers after the battle, when they are back from the war and there is practically no military help for them. There are many other elements about this destroyed morale of the soldiers in Iraq. We discover thus that these poor young people got into the army as a way to negociate the financing of their college education, more than anything else, and that the American people were living with the conviction that war was no longer an option after the end of the Cold War. The result is a total lack of morale, resentment against the Commander in Chief and the « pussy » Rumsfeld. The surprising element is the very short time it took for these professional or reserve professional soldiers to become disabused, disenchanted and discontented. These letters reveal the army is crumbling from inside. The reported cases of censorship inside and outside, the rebukes the soldiers get when they are critical inside are signs of this crumbling morale.<br /><br />A New « Class » Consciousness<br />But the letters are short in ideological analysis. They remain strongly patriotic and they do not question war as such, but this war in particular. Their vision of their society is clear-cut but also short-sighted. They oppose the poor to the rich, and they believe the rich are in power to enable the rich who are not in power to get the contracts in Iraq that the war fought by the poor is supposed to bring in. Bush and his associates come first, « Blackwater, Kellog Brown and Root, Halliburton, on and on » second, and soldiers third. They do not see that they have to be slightly more sophisticated to be effective. They do not understand what political work is, that a presidential campaign cannot be fought on one issue, that you must have an alternative and Kerry does not seem to satisfy the authors of these letters. They do not even understand that they have to take part in the political process of building up issues and consensual solutions. They at most envisage private discussions with family and friends, rarely picketing or other public actions, certainly not a battle for a political awakening. This explains the sadness you feel all the time in the book that shoots heavy guns at Bush II, but Bush was reelected, not by a landslide victory but reelected all the same. So what happened ? The book is rich in retrospect : it shows all the shortcomings of this anti-war-in-Iraq movement. It prevented a landslide victory but it could not bring a defeat : it could not bring together a majority on all the political, social and economic problems facing the American people : there was no alternative. This anti-war-in-Iraq movement sounds in these letters as some limbos in which discontented people were, and the opposition between the poor and the rich was not enough to explain Bush's victory won in the mountains and plains, and the South, whereas his opponent won New England and the Great Lakes. In other words Bush won the poorest states whereas Kerry carried the richest ones. Why ? The reference to God is probably the answer and it is ever present in the book. The rural and urban poor, particularly if they are white, have a tendency to look for a conservative religious Christian discourse or belief to compensate their very frustration and poverty and that is exactly the honey Bush used to catch the flies who elected him.<br /><br />So Abraham Lincoln was right : « If you give the people the facts, the Republic will be safe. » But there is a provision for this to be true. People have to take off their warping ideological glasses to see the facts, otherwise the Republic is in danger. And it is exactly what happened. They all kept their idelogical religious glasses on and they voted against their own interest, or did not vote at all. It takes more than one prophet to change the world. Jesus - and he was no prophet - had twelve Apostles, thirteen with Paul.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUeptember 11. But they are also convinced of their mission to defend the Constitution and democracy at home and everywhere in the world. Then they saw what was happening. They discovered they had been lied to by the President, their Commander in Chief, about WMDs. They discovered that they did not have enough defensive and offensive equipment, even personal reinforcements for their protective clothes. They discovered that they were not fighting against soldiers who deserted as soon as they were seen arriving, but against civilians. « He killed a civilian woman his first week in Iraq and didn't have the stomach to fight after the incident. » (p. 176) « It's hard listening to my platoon sergeant saying, `'If you decide you want to kill a civilian that looks threatening, shoot him. I'd rather fill out paperwork than get one of my soldiers killed by some raghead.'' » (p. 24) « Everyone here [South Korea] is excited about going so that they can kill someone. » (p. 44) They also discover that if a wounded soldier dies in the plane transferring him or her outside Iraq, or later, he or she will not be considered as a war victim, as having died in action, and no statistics are given about these wounded soldiers who die later on. The casualties are underestimated. And they also discover that even medical equipment is short and that some medical personnel must ask their relatives in the US to make and send some scrubs to have enough sterile scrubs for their work (p. 190). What's more they discover PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) and the fact that it destroys the life of soldiers after the battle, when they are back from the war and there is practically no military help for them. There are many other elements about this destroyed morale of the soldiers in Iraq. We discover thus that these poor young people got into the army as a way to negociate the financing of their college education, more than anything else, and that the American people were living with the conviction that war was no longer an option after the end of the Cold War. The result is a total lack of morale, resentment against the Commander in Chief and the « pussy » Rumsfeld. The surprising element is the very short time it took for these professional or reserve professional soldiers to become disabused, disenchanted and discontented. These letters reveal the army is crumbling from inside. The reported cases of censorship inside and outside, the rebukes the soldiers get when they are critical inside are signs of this crumbling morale.<br /><br />A New « Class » Consciousness<br />But the letters are short in ideological analysis. They remain strongly patriotic and they do not question war as such, but this war in particular. Their vision of their society is clear-cut but also short-sighted. They oppose the poor to the rich, and they believe the rich are in power to enable the rich who are not in power to get the contracts in Iraq that the war fought by the poor is supposed to bring in. Bush and his associates come first, « Blackwater, Kellog Brown and Root, Halliburton, on and on » second, and soldiers third. They do not see that they have to be slightly more sophisticated to be effective. They do not understand what political work is, that a presidential campaign cannot be fought on one issue, that you must have an alternative and Kerry does not seem to satisfy the authors of these letters. They do not even understand that they have to take part in the political process of building up issues and consensual solutions. They at most envisage private discussions with family and friends, rarely picketing or other public actions, certainly not a battle for a political awakening. This explains the sadness you feel all the time in the book that shoots heavy guns at Bush II, but Bush was reelected, not by a landslide victory but reelected all the same. So what happened ? The book is rich in retrospect : it shows all the shortcomings of this anti-war-in-Iraq movement. It prevented a landslide victory but it could not bring a defeat : it could not bring together a majority on all the political, social and economic problems facing the American people : there was no alternative. This anti-war-in-Iraq movement sounds in these letters as some limbos in which discontented people were, and the opposition between the poor and the rich was not enough to explain Bush's victory won in the mountains and plains, and the South, whereas his opponent won New England and the Great Lakes. In other words Bush won the poorest states whereas Kerry carried the richest ones. Why ? The reference to God is probably the answer and it is ever present in the book. The rural and urban poor, particularly if they are white, have a tendency to look for a conservative religious Christian discourse or belief to compensate their very frustration and poverty and that is exactly the honey Bush used to catch the flies who elected him.<br /><br />So Abraham Lincoln was right : « If you give the people the facts, the Republic will be safe. » But there is a provision for this to be true. People have to take off their warping ideological glasses to see the facts, otherwise the Republic is in danger. And it is exactly what happened. They all kept their idelogical religious glasses on and they voted against their own interest, or did not vote at all. It takes more than one prophet to change the world. Jesus - and he was no prophet - had twelve Apostles, thirteen with Paul.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-03-15
US	50989966	R3I8X0E31JHRG3	0151007640	240499638	Crabwalk	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Internet as a substitute to parents	Universality is at hand. This novel is one of the signs on  our daily road. It speaks of one particular event in German history, the sinking of the ship Wilhelm Gustloff on January 30, 1945, hit by three torpedoes from a Soviet submarine. And yet it is universal. It entertwines the fates and lives of Wilhelm Gustloff, a small nazi dignitary in Switzerland, shot dead by David Frankfurter, a Jew, and after whom a Strength Through Joy vacationing ship was named in 1936, a ship that was torpedoed to death by Aleksandr Marinesko from his submarine. But the historical fact is captured through three generational layers of witnesses. First the Mother, who was a refugee on this ship on that day, pregnant too. Then her son who was born after the torpedoes hit their target, while the ship was sinking, miraculously rescued from nearly unescapable death. Then his own son, and the grandson of the Mother, Konrad, a whizz computer and Internet kid of 17. This network of crisscrossing testimonies and reactions and actions all reported by the miraculously rescued son is already fascinating. The Mother, after having been a clearly supportive nazi follower, turned into a militant and local dignitary of the SED, the communist party in East Germany, due to sheer circumstances, the last Stalinist in East Germany as she calls herself, and she is the ranting and raving memory of this fateful sinking. The son, after leaving East Germany through Berlin just before the wall was erected, marries and has a son of his own, but he gets divorced and the son is entrusted to his ex-wife who, after the wall has fallen, entrusts this son of hers in her turn to his grandmother who is going to raise him in the ranting and raving memory of the good old days, mixing up nazism and communism in one vision of a classless society represented in her mind by the Strength Through Joy movement. The ship was sunk by Soviet hence stalinistic torpedoes and she reverses what should be her hatred or frustration into a blind and absolute love for Stalin himself, and yet, deep under, she remains antisemitic and even anti-non-German, if not jingoistic, probably due to her coming from East Prussia, what is now Poland. Here we already have a lesson about humanity : commitments to this or that ideology is always personal and extremely brittle and fickle because dictated by circumstances monitored by the survival instinct. The book contains some vignettes about the gerneration of her son that are just as realistic : the 1945 baby-boom generation develops an ideology of pure non-committing middle of the road neutrality that explains so well what the world is today : unable to make any clearcut and longlasting choice. But the book becomes a masterpiece when we take into account the third generation, Konrad's. These are lost in total incomprehension and darkness : they have to situate themselves in life with no real committed and ethical models in the previous generations. The grandmother is a hitlerian turned stalinist, and ending her life with a living-room catholic altar with the Holy Virgin and Stalin in the places of honour. The father and mother are living in ideological limbos. A child needs commitment and a model to show him the way towards some ethical behaviour. In this case, Konrad follows his grandmother and finds in the Internet the possibility to recreate a clearcut ideological world through virtual reality. He starts a webpage on the Wilhelm Gustloff and develops his persona as a nazi or at least neo-nazi supporter, and finds in his chatroom-clientele someone who plays the persona of the eternally evil Jew, a certain David, who is no David and no Jew, but assumes this persona. This Internet trick enables the author to speak of the suffering of the German people at the end of the war, often increased by some war decisions of the Allies to hit, at times knowingly, some civilian targets like Dresden whose civilian areas, including the historical palaces along the river, were bombed with phosphorus while the enormous train station was  not even menaced. But it would be short-sighted to reduce the book to that. In fact this Internet dimension reveals the need for young people to have adult models they can follow or not, hence to have committed adult models. It shows that the rising generation finds their models in the personae they meet and build for themselves on the Internet, and that these personae are going to be committed and ethical, in a way or another, often extreme, since no guidance among parents or at school is available. The book pushes the situation slightly further and imagines what may happen if such virtual commitments and personae were to meet in flesh and blood. And that is the best dimension of the book : they will reinvent what has been lived and experienced two generations ago by their grandparents, which means in Germany the conflicts and commitments of the 1930s and two subsequent decades. The book even seems to believe, at least Konrad seems to, that some kind of synthesis is possible in the concept of classlessness. The main conclusion we can draw from such a deep and yet short and quick book is that we have had it all wrong for at least one century, or, if you prefer, that history repeats itself all the time and particularly its mistakes that are maybe not mistakes, just the embodiment of the deep, bright or dark, impulses of human beings. I will say this book is optimistic, even if many may think these conclusions are particularly pessimistic if not provocative.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUmbed with phosphorus while the enormous train station was  not even menaced. But it would be short-sighted to reduce the book to that. In fact this Internet dimension reveals the need for young people to have adult models they can follow or not, hence to have committed adult models. It shows that the rising generation finds their models in the personae they meet and build for themselves on the Internet, and that these personae are going to be committed and ethical, in a way or another, often extreme, since no guidance among parents or at school is available. The book pushes the situation slightly further and imagines what may happen if such virtual commitments and personae were to meet in flesh and blood. And that is the best dimension of the book : they will reinvent what has been lived and experienced two generations ago by their grandparents, which means in Germany the conflicts and commitments of the 1930s and two subsequent decades. The book even seems to believe, at least Konrad seems to, that some kind of synthesis is possible in the concept of classlessness. The main conclusion we can draw from such a deep and yet short and quick book is that we have had it all wrong for at least one century, or, if you prefer, that history repeats itself all the time and particularly its mistakes that are maybe not mistakes, just the embodiment of the deep, bright or dark, impulses of human beings. I will say this book is optimistic, even if many may think these conclusions are particularly pessimistic if not provocative. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-03-12
US	50989966	R2RWETHKPEONGN	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	4	14	23	N	N	Unescapable and yet there are ways out	Noam Chomsky uses his hyper-precise and hyper-logical mind to demonstrate that the US has always been on one line : to conquer the world to increase its own wealth. He starts seriously exploring this line with Wilson and no president since then escapes his logical scrutiny. Bush II, as he calls the present president, is just pushing this policy one point farther and further. Irak is the acme of the use of violent warfare and terroristic aggression to bring down a good servant turned rebellious. This policy wants to be a lesson to the world and it aims at conquering and controlling - forever of course - the oil resources of the world, forgetting that will only last fifty years. But Bush II is shown as being the continuator of all his predecessors, including Roosevelt, Kennedy and Clinton.Then Bush II is launching a monopolistic and illegal conquest of space for the sole military use of it by the US. And this will either lead the world into a devastating arms race that would halt all progress and to the absolute control of the world by the US, or to the destruction of the planet and humanity, a destruction that will be so complete that Russell's prediction will be fulfilled : « The earth will become again incapable of supporting life, and peace will return. » The analysis and exploration is so complete that it cannot be questioned in any way : there is no flaw, no leaking hole, no escape. And yet the book leaves us with a taste of incompleteness and it is not the last two pages that will balance the pessimism of 234 pages with the optimism of the superpower of public opinion and the birth of the solidarity and civil right movement of the World Social Forums. Chomsky forgets that the new technologies that make new weapons so deadly require everyday democracy at the work place and cooperation of all the members of the team that work behind from the producer of electricity to the designer of software and the programmer of customized applications. This goes against the militaristic ambition of the US elite since one person (or a very limited group) can block the whole military machine by pulling off the plug. The French have experienced this during the 1961 military coup in Algeria when the draftees who were supposed to service the military planes that were to invade France just dragged their feet and even plainly did not do what they were ordered to do, thus grounding the planes in Algiers. Chomsky also forgets that the US cannot pay for this militaristic adventure without the whole world financing its horrendous deficit, which means the emergence of new economic powers  like China and India, and even Europe, or the consciousness of the elected popular leaders of the countries that control raw materials like oil or copper or iron and so can block the process by making the US unsolvent, and the US market is not the first market in the world anymore, far from it and steadily declining. The conclusion Chomsky implies though he does not state it, is that we, citizens of the world, must by all means block the neo-liberal policies that the US government and the main corporations in the world dominated by the US are trying to impose onto us. In Europe we have to become conscious we are the possible future for a peaceful world if we join our efforts with those of emerging economic powers. In other words the future is in the hands of the oldest cultures in the world, the Chines, semitic and indo-european cultures, in an alliance with Africa, the cradle of humanity, and the Americas of the Indian traditions. What can a country that has two centuries of history, three centuries of culture and is nothing but 25 decreasing percent of the economic power in the world and less than 5 percent of its population do ? Destroy it ? You're kidding. One should have a pretty suicidal apocalyptic mind to prefer their own destruction along with the world to a compromise that would ensure their survival. Or are we reliving Stephen King's The Dead Zone allover again ? Think of what the doctor says in the book about how to deal with the person who would represent this scary policy.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUer again ? Think of what the doctor says in the book about how to deal with the person who would represent this scary policy. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-03-11
US	50989966	RR558ASP4QIGW	0446405361	224278651	The Dollmaker's Daughters (Bo Bradley Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dolls are easier to deal with than daughters	It is page turner, in a way, indeed. The main interest is that the author has had a long and direct experience of the type of people she is dealing with : the children and their parents that are taken care of by the Child Protective Services of San Diego, California. She takes us into a three generation situation that has led and leads to criminal activities, murders, multiple murders that are all committed within the family circle by one member of it. The elimination game that the murderer plays leads us to the murderer as the only survivor. But we have to understand how it happened and why it all took place. And that is the difficult part. To disentangle this situation the author explores all the actors around the case, all the CPS social workers, the police and the doctors and psychiatrists, the foster families and the service they depend on, etc. This leads to a characterization of these actors. The foster family in question lives on fear : the fear that the child may turn psychic and dangerous because they do not understand what is happening. So they try to protect themselves. The police, or rather one policeman, retired but still working in the shadow of the FBI, is obsessed by his own hypothesis and tries to run it to the end of the line where it does not stick anymore when his supposed murderer is assassinated in his turn. So he is obliged to revise his view and then jumps to the right solution, in time to save two CPS agents. The CPS supervisor had gotten entangled in the case through a short love affair with one of the protagonists thirteen years earlier. So she appears split between her administrative being that makes her protect herself even to the cost of having one victim punished if not destroyed, and yet, deep under, she is a very sensitive and caring woman. Her dilemma. The doctors and psychiatrists really try to help, and yet their opinion has no weight when an administrative service or a court is at stake. But the principal characteristic of the book is that the main character, Bo Bradley, is herself a manic depressive person who has difficulties establishing balanced relationships with others and to acceopt a shared love life. She is always trying to defend herself from other people, isolating herself in so doing, locking herself up onto herself and using medications to keep herself in line. You add to that two teenagers, one the main victim, and the other a could-be victim if she wasn't helped by an uncle, and you have the whole picture. Gothic in a quite new meaning : « What ends when the symbols shatter ? » The totally disillusioned ideology of a whole generation that witnesses the end of a social order and its beliefs and sees no new perspective. They become blas&eacute;, but they could easily get into drugs, violence, criminal activities or even state-sanctified warfare violence to retain some sense of providence or fate or historical justification. A disquieting thriller that forces us to question some fundamentals in our own vision of life and society.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUook is that the main character, Bo Bradley, is herself a manic depressive person who has difficulties establishing balanced relationships with others and to acceopt a shared love life. She is always trying to defend herself from other people, isolating herself in so doing, locking herself up onto herself and using medications to keep herself in line. You add to that two teenagers, one the main victim, and the other a could-be victim if she wasn't helped by an uncle, and you have the whole picture. Gothic in a quite new meaning :  What ends when the symbols shatter ?  The totally disillusioned ideology of a whole generation that witnesses the end of a social order and its beliefs and sees no new perspective. They become blas, but they could easily get into drugs, violence, criminal activities or even state-sanctified warfare violence to retain some sense of providence or fate or historical justification. A disquieting thriller that forces us to question some fundamentals in our own vision of life and society. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-02-27
US	50989966	R3B22RWGOT4N6P	0091799759	656948149	Thirteen Steps Down	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Thirteen steps lead up but they may cast you down	Ruth Rendell is the most surprising detective story writer you can imagine. In this book - her latest - she does it again. We follow the murderer from beginning to end, particularly his psychological intricacies, contradictions, obscure recesses, etc. And once again killing is never really willful, but more the result of psychological circumstances. The character is superstitious, for one, and highly neurotic, verging onto psychotic, for two. The interest of the book is to discover how small details become disruptive for such a person and grow out of all proportion in no time. The second interest is to explore his approach to love and the same approach on the side of those he chooses as sexual partners, and also the one he elects as his essential target. For him there is no counterpart's will. He wants something, so he has to have it and when the world or life deny that satisfaction he becomes frustrated, agressive or even plain murderous. He cannot accept no as an answer. This leads to a third level, to explore the life a female fashion model who is black though this will be clearly stated only page 225. This is one of the new rules coming from political correctness, and I must say I find it a little bit confusing since the ethnic origin of this model who is loved by a murderer should be explained and used in the exploration of his psyche. It cannot be gratuitous. Furthermore, the novel explores the life and psyche of an old lady, the landlady of our murderer, and here Ruth Rendell reaches a certain level of black humour when she shows the detailed picture of the decadence and dereliction of that old lady. Finally I will say that the book shows bluntly how such a criminal, absolutely unprofilable, can escape the police. The police is not in the know because people seem to satisfy themselves with easy and superficial explanations. It takes some time for the two black  « friends » of the old lady to get the courage to go to the police and really start the chase. England sure isn't a police state and the lack of follow-up work on social cases or old people can lead to dramatic situations that might have been prevented.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUand sure isn't a police state and the lack of follow-up work on social cases or old people can lead to dramatic situations that might have been prevented. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-02-27
US	50989966	R9UHJHTEKBOK9	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Dante meets Longfellow in the after Civil War jungle	A phenomenal book, indeed. 1865. Just after thE Civil War. The author starts from a real fact : the first American translation of Dante's Divine Comedy by Longfellow in Cambridge next to Boston. The history of this translation and the meaning of the Inferno of the Divine Comedy are perfect, though debatable. It is too close to Dante's biography to really reach the mythological level that Blake had reached a lot better in his illustrations of the English translation of the beginning of the 19th century. But that is not the main interest of the book. Then the author builds a full plot against this book, this translation from the various fundamentalist protestants who see in the book a work of the popish, papal, romish devil and try to stop it with arguments we still know perfectly : the influence on the students, and the general public, might be disturbing and dangerous, might lead them to sinning and even criminal ideas or even activities. Yet that is not the main interest of the book. The main interest is the criminal plot that  develops around all that from a frustrated and deranged Civil War veteran who identifies his war sufferings to Dante's description of Hell and finds a mission in himself, that of cleaning up Boston of all the sinners who caused the war and menace Dante's translation. We then have a series of crimes that are set up as infernal punishments in the shape of what Dante describes in his poem. The details are of course not to be revealed. But the book reveals the deep hypocrisy of a society that has reached a point where the whole world is going to change. You have those who resist that change and become fundamentalists of a certain puritan conception of protestantism. You have those who seize the change to make a fortune, or to increase the fortune they have made during the war. And then you have those who navigate between the two poles and play the perfect role of the hypocrites who flatter both sides to go on speculating and even embezzling without being questioned by either side. But then you have a smaller group of intellectuals who are looking for a deeper and wider humanistic perspective and could reject both extremes for a reasonable attitude, particularly concerning the veterans who have to be helped out of their misery, rejected as they are by all sides and forced to integrate this moving and ambiguous society by swallowing down and sponging away their suffering and their trauma. Unluckily, these intellectuals are unable to do anything but their intellectual work and venture because they have never known misery, poverty, suffering and they are totally locked up in their comfortable wealthy and protected situation. In one word they are egotistic and since they are poets they end up being vain in the glory they have conquered with their poetry. In other words they are not able to change the world neither for the worse nor for the better. In a word they are pathetic in their sense of justice that only aims at stopping the criminal mind who is killing people to make their own position safer, or just plain safe. The book here becomes even ironical since the model that the criminal is going to use to assassinate people will be unknowingly provided by one of these intellectuals who will, out of his good heart, preach Dante as a cathartic entertainment and enlightenment to the veterans. When we close the book after reading the last page we just wonder if there is a higher meaning, if we have reached in any way the higher meaning that Dante brings to us with his poems, and I must say I think we haven't. It is a great thriller, though a little bit slow because of its intellectualism, but it does not lead to a reflection on society, human cruelty, war, or anything really. I wonder what William Blake would have thought of this use of the Divine Comedy as the basis of a thriller, he who thought Dante was a creator of a complete Christian mythology.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUout being questioned by either side. But then you have a smaller group of intellectuals who are looking for a deeper and wider humanistic perspective and could reject both extremes for a reasonable attitude, particularly concerning the veterans who have to be helped out of their misery, rejected as they are by all sides and forced to integrate this moving and ambiguous society by swallowing down and sponging away their suffering and their trauma. Unluckily, these intellectuals are unable to do anything but their intellectual work and venture because they have never known misery, poverty, suffering and they are totally locked up in their comfortable wealthy and protected situation. In one word they are egotistic and since they are poets they end up being vain in the glory they have conquered with their poetry. In other words they are not able to change the world neither for the worse nor for the better. In a word they are pathetic in their sense of justice that only aims at stopping the criminal mind who is killing people to make their own position safer, or just plain safe. The book here becomes even ironical since the model that the criminal is going to use to assassinate people will be unknowingly provided by one of these intellectuals who will, out of his good heart, preach Dante as a cathartic entertainment and enlightenment to the veterans. When we close the book after reading the last page we just wonder if there is a higher meaning, if we have reached in any way the higher meaning that Dante brings to us with his poems, and I must say I think we haven't. It is a great thriller, though a little bit slow because of its intellectualism, but it does not lead to a reflection on society, human cruelty, war, or anything really. I wonder what William Blake would have thought of this use of the Divine Comedy as the basis of a thriller, he who thought Dante was a creator of a complete Christian mythology. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br /> <br />	2005-02-13
US	50989966	R1A2GTN4TPL7L5	0374226768	656731395	Orange Laughter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dramatic invisibility versus tragic visibility	Ralph Ellison is still alive. This novel is a typical continuation of his themes. One black man entirely locked up Underneath or Below, in the Subway maze of corridors, tracks and blind rooms is the storyteller. He is also locked up in his lost memory that he is going to recapture little by little. And what will come out of it ? A brilliant black woman, Agatha will reveal her mystery. She is the granddaughter of a black minister in North Carolina, but she is the daughter of a white man and her mother was beaten to death by the grandfather of this white man. She will deliver her child in the hands of the brother of this white man. The minister will get a tooth for a tooth, a child for a child, and the brother of the white man, Agatha's uncle, will look after her and then what was to happen will happen, even if it is a blind alley and a dead end. The white man, Agatha's father, will go away and have another child from another woman, this time white. She will die and then the father will die and the child will be entrusted to his grandmother who will come back to the father's town to find his relatives, but she ignores his real name. Fate will bring the white boy and Agatha, brother and sister, together, and the other boy, the black boy Agatha is taking care of and who is our storyteller, will become the friend of the white boy. White and black are so entangled together that they cannot be separated. The whole story takes place in the Civil Rights Movements era and the Ku Klux Klan is all-powerful in this small town of Edene, the badly-named Edene. This will dictate the events and Agatha, her white brother and her black child will get swallowed up in the hatred that goes along with KKK and the emerging Civil Rights Movement. The end will be tragic. Both boys will manage to go to New York and get lost in the Big Apple, the white one successful and the black one rejected or rather dropping out. They will also manage to reestablish a connection, communication and memory, coming back to the black boy, who is now over forty, a door will reopen of a new relation between the two boys, Mikey and Tony. The stuff is heavy, pungent and strong. The novel is interesting and quite easy to read and follow. It shows how guilt, desire and hatred are all twisted out of shape and embedded in all loving postures. Yet something sounds and feels awkward if not out of pace. It is bleak enough to be true, and yet the divided personalities, loyalties and lives are rather well shown on the black side but remain kind of schematic on the white side. The wall standing between the two communities is well rooted in white fear and hatred, but it is insufficiently rooted in the same feelings on the black side. The author seems to be overprudent to describe the hatred, not the fear, the Blacks feel in front of white injustice or rather social and historical injustice. Relations with people from the other side was just as much rejected on the white side as on the black side. This latter rejection is not entirely felt and depicted : it is too much seen as a response to the stimulus of white hatred. It is not only that : the concept of difference, uncrossable difference existed and still exists on both sides, blocking the possibility for America to see that all it represents and it has invented is the result of a constant give-and-take process between the two communities, the result of a cooperation that nearly no one has the courage to show and assume, except maybe Ralph Ellison in the most recent half century. We do not reach the concept of democratic diversity that is emerging at that very period of time (1960s and 1970s) in Ralph Ellisons's writings and thinking. A great book that deals with memory that blocks history in its loss and that unblocks life in its recovery.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUcoming back to the black boy, who is now over forty, a door will reopen of a new relation between the two boys, Mikey and Tony. The stuff is heavy, pungent and strong. The novel is interesting and quite easy to read and follow. It shows how guilt, desire and hatred are all twisted out of shape and embedded in all loving postures. Yet something sounds and feels awkward if not out of pace. It is bleak enough to be true, and yet the divided personalities, loyalties and lives are rather well shown on the black side but remain kind of schematic on the white side. The wall standing between the two communities is well rooted in white fear and hatred, but it is insufficiently rooted in the same feelings on the black side. The author seems to be overprudent to describe the hatred, not the fear, the Blacks feel in front of white injustice or rather social and historical injustice. Relations with people from the other side was just as much rejected on the white side as on the black side. This latter rejection is not entirely felt and depicted : it is too much seen as a response to the stimulus of white hatred. It is not only that : the concept of difference, uncrossable difference existed and still exists on both sides, blocking the possibility for America to see that all it represents and it has invented is the result of a constant give-and-take process between the two communities, the result of a cooperation that nearly no one has the courage to show and assume, except maybe Ralph Ellison in the most recent half century. We do not reach the concept of democratic diversity that is emerging at that very period of time (1960s and 1970s) in Ralph Ellisons's writings and thinking. A great book that deals with memory that blocks history in its loss and that unblocks life in its recovery. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-02-07
US	50989966	R167RPUVHU2MBN	0226701980	794470338	Lying up a Nation: Race and Black Music	Books	4	7	11	N	N	An interesting enterprise that falls kind of short	This book is essential in the field of Black Music. A long first theoretical chapter leads to four chapters that cover four periods : before the American Revolution, before the Cvil War, after the Civil war and the present. The general method is a mix of anthropological and historical approaches essentially founded on documents and their treatment. The next element I will quote in this short introduction is that Radano, except when dealing with what African music was in Africa at the time of the slave trade, only considers what he calls the United States, without even mentioning that they were a small section of North America up to the buying of Louisiana from Napoleon I. He does not study, nor hardly evokes the position of the Blacks in other colonies than the thirteen original English colonies and the subsequent construction of the United States without entering the complex historical process that led to the expansion of the original territory. Apart from Herder and travelogues that he quotes several times, his approach of Black music and rhythm hardly goes beyond the seventeenth century and the « American » context : no large approach of rhythm in music that is necessary from at least since the gregorian revolution, no approach of European music as a very lively field of creation and exchange, this music being reduced to what he calls the « elite » European music and seen as homogeneous. Finally he seems to always conceive the Blacks in  the US and the Whites in the world as being very homogeneous raciallly defined groups. The book is thus packed with information but we can wonder if he really gets to a reassessment of W.E.B. Dubois's and Ralph Ellison's approaches, which is his declared intention, and if he manages to expand their approach, or approaches, to the modern globalized world in which we live. It is these questions that I amgoing to try to answer in a very ellisonian style, that is a discursive and dialogical approach that will try to put in perspective what is being said in the book.<br /><br />1- A Bracing Book<br />I enjoyed the book tremendously because it does not condescendingly pat you in the back. It confronts you - the reader, any musically cultured reader - with an idea that he borrows from Ellison and Dubois. The American nation is for ever double and can only envisage its future by setting up a democracy of differences (plural added by me). Radano seems to only speak of one difference, always in the singular, as if it were an abstract concept and a drawback for African-Americans who are systematically under the accusation from the Whites of being different.<br />This very bias is brain-storming and spirit-raking for everyone because we tend to react as if we were attacked and accused and we think : « Stop and look around ». What is so unique in the dual reality of the American nation, both black and white ? Is it only two by the way ? What about Native-Americans, Mexicans, Asian-Americans, and their respective contributions to the Amarican nation ? This is a nation built on a whole complex of differences and the main and dominant group has to learn how to live with it. And is that main and dominant group that homogeneous ? But isn't that the very core of human history ? No social group has ever been united, even before nations existed, and a society can never be reduced to two groups. The Germans versus the Jews ? We know what came out of it. The working class versus the capitalist class ? We know what came out of it. This is a deep and ancient metaphysical way of thinking. The orthodox Christians versus the heretics. The Christians versus the Infidels. We can argue - for the sake of argument - that this is a « western » concept, a mediterranean attitude, etc. We may think of Turks versus Kurds, of Turks versus Armenians, of Sunnites versus Chiites, to widen the spectrum. We can even think of India and the Untouchables. Every time history thought and behaved as if humanity was cut into two groups, it led to extreme catastrophes.<br />The conclusion reached by W.E.B. Dubois and Ralph Ellison is a lot safer and progressive : the future can only come from democratic diversity, and we must not fall in the trap of considering all Whites - what's more in the world - as one homogeneous group or even class of people, which Radano seems to do often. The poor white farmers, the poor white immigrants, the poor white workers had little to do with the rich plantation owners or the rich capitalists and bankers. That's were the book is most superficial.<br />Chateaubriand, in his M&eacute;moires d'Outre-Tombe, in 1824, wrote :<br /><br />« Les Etats ne se diviseront-ils pas ? Un d&eacute;put&eacute; de la Virginie n'a-t-il pas d&eacute;j&agrave; soutenu la th&egrave;se de la libert&eacute; antique avec des esclaves, r&eacute;sultats du paganisme, contre un d&eacute;put&eacute; du Massachusetts, d&eacute;fendant la cause de la libert&eacute; moderne sans exclaves, telle que le christianisme l'a faite ? » (Livre huiti&egrave;me, Chapitre 6, Editions de la Pl&eacute;ïade, Tome I, p. 275)<br /><br />We even know that at the end of the 19th century, the capitalists of the United States were absolutely frightened by the possible alliance in rural areas of poor white and black farmers, and even the possible alliance of this rural movement with the working class both black and white trade-unionist movement in the cities. They did all they could to prevent it and succeeded. We can wonder if the movement was strong enough and unified enough. But such alliances were possible and even started being built. It's what Howard Zinn describes in his A People's History of the United States, as the Farmers Alliance and the Knights of Labor. The recent development about the Mississippi case (see Mississippi Burning) of the killing of three white northern activists coming to help the Blacks register for voting is there to remind us and prove that the white community is not homogeneous, nor is the black community.<br /><br />2- Syncretic thinking or « jazz thinking »<br />The book is also an exercise in style. It is a book of the 21st century in its very style which is deeply syncretic, not with the colonialistic meaning L&eacute;vi-Br&uuml;hl gave to that term, but as an alternative way of thinking to cartesianism and hegelianism, or as for that marxism and the general scientific discourse of the last ten centuries, if not twenty-five.<br />Syncretic means several things. The reasoning is always a flow of consciousness. Argument A leads to argument B that leads to argument C that may lead back to argument A but in the new context of being brought back up by argument C. The reasoning is circular but in the shape of a helix, hence h&eacute;licoidal, that goes up little by little.<br />Syncretic means poetic in the sense that it associates words and sounds in a flowing continuous rhythm of images and arguments that build up a path to a conclusion that is just one or two steps higher than the starting point. No plain clear-cut deduction or syllogism. Rhythm, sounds, images, concepts, facts are piled or strung up to build a slow pilgrim's progress towards a conclusion.<br />Syncretic means that the facts and conclusions are constantly dialecticized and seen with two edges :<br /><br />« Gifts can be double-edged, serving the giver as well as the taker. » (p. 283)<br /><br />and at once he shows that it can be positive and negative for both the giver and the taker. Note the word « taker » (for the Whites) is not neutral as receiver would have been. He thus doubles the dialectics of Dubois's « gift » but introduces a term for the Whites that may imply that the « taker » was not given anything. This is important. We are back to the first discussion. The Blacks give the American nation a new development in culture but the Whites take it, appropriate it instead of exchanging it for something else. Once again this dialectics does not differenciate the Whites who are racist from those who fight against racism, even to the point of giving their life in doing so. The Civil War was a good example of their giving back. But to remain within the cultural field, or even the musical field, we cannot deny that some Whites have done a lot for that black music to be produced and propagated (I am thinking of that Polish Jewish immigrant after the second world war who created the Chess Label that enabled the blues to get into the radios and onto the market, as Martin Scorsese tells us in Godfathers and Sons), but also that many white artists have used the great gift from the Blacks  to invent their own dimension with it, a dimension that went back to the Blacks to enrich them in their turn with new developments. Jazz is a perfect example but rock and roll is another. Elvis Presley did not only use the black gift : he invested his own style, being and existence  into it to produce a new dimension in music, and not only white music. But we could and should quote Europe : the Beatles, teh Rolling Stones, in English, and all the other musicians and groups in Europe and the world.<br />Syncretic means a fourth thing. The discourse very often sounds like a forum on the Internet with an historical time line that is not respected, with arguments and counterarguments that sound like rebuttals, etc. Rousseau is not quoted in the 18th century section of the book (second chapter) but in the third chapter dealing with the antebellum 19th cenbtury. Same thing with Montesquieu's denunciation  of racism (p. 109) :<br /><br />« It is impossible for us to suppose that these beings should be men ; because if we supposed them to be men, one would begin to believe that we ourselves were not Christians. »<br /><br />And a lot more could be said about Montesquieu. And what about Buffon :<br /><br />« Si Buffon affirme l'unit&eacute; de l'esp&egrave;ce humaine [...] c'est pour une raison purement biologique : des individus de races diff&eacute;rentes peuvent s'unir entre eux et avoir des enfants capables d'engendrer, ce qui prouve que ces races ne sont que des vari&eacute;t&eacute;s de la même esp&egrave;ce, vari&eacute;t&eacute;s produites par la diversit&eacute; des climats et des genres de vie. L'esp&egrave;ce humaine a donc eu la même histoire que les esp&egrave;ces animales. Buffon pr&eacute;cise même que les premiers hommes &eacute;taient noirs, car des noirs &eacute;taient seuls capables de supporter la chaleur qui r&eacute;gnait alors sur la terre, moins refroidie que de nos jours. » (J. Roger, in Histoire Litt&eacute;raire de la France, Volume 5, p. 402, Paris, 1976)<br /><br />In fact none of the Enlightenment French philosophers and scientists are quoted in the 18th century's section. If I insist on the French philosophers and scientists, it's because French Louisiana covers at the time nearly half of the North American continent, from the Gulf of Mexico to Quebec and Maine. It should have been studied in detail in the pre-revolutionary period because of the influence these French had on the history of the United States. We know Lafayette of course who was moved by philosophical ideas. We know too that these ideas will bring about the French Revolution that will abolish slavery, with all the influence it means for the Blacks. The role and action of the French catholic church should have been studied : their encouraging conversion and religious practice, their tolerating of Vodun and other African practices, their teaching reading and writing, their encouraging local languages, particularly creoles that are still in existence today, and of course music. It also would have enabled Radano to contrast the two revolutions. It is not only one word that is different : « all men are born equal in rights ». versus « all men are created equal ». This would have led to understanding that the Whites were not one homogeneous group in America and in the world and that those who will oppose slavery inthe United States had deep and old roots in their culture due to the Enlightenment philosophers and scientists.<br />But this non-respect of the historical time line is typical of today's Internet communication which is deeply and systematically syncretic. This is going to become an important characteristic of the 21st century. We will have to deal with it and we, intellectuals, will have to fight back at this very characteristic. Syncretic thinking is interesting and even enriching by the short circuits it may create in our way of thinking, by the emphasis on intuition more than deduction, by the importance of concatenation instead of logical relation, etc. We need to see that a strict deductive method prevents us from seeing many new ideas and stating many new hypotheses. But one thing we will have to be strict about is the time line of history. We cannot use something from the 20th century to prove something in the 18th century, and vice versa. Syncretism is extremely important for the opening of new trails in the wilderness of the unknown, but it has to remain within the historical time line : anachronism, so common in syncretic Internet thinking, can only lead to fuzzy ideas and confusion. Fuzzy concepts (and we know mathematics are using more and more of these) are necessary to progress but historical confusion is maybe romantic and poetical but it is not acceptable in research.<br /><br />3- African Rhythm<br />The main topic asserted and discussed by Radano is that African-Americans gave America the invention of rhythm and that the « white » reaction changed over the centuries from a consideration that it was purely barbaric to the consideration that it was a disease infecting the whole body of American music. This discussion around the invention of rhythm is very rich and interesting, especially in the scrutinizing of the reactions of some Whites in front of it, even if Radano essentially quotes hostile whites.<br />The first idea is that it was an African-American invention and Radano insists on the break between Africa and America for these slaves. He insists on the fact that they were from different languages, that they were sold and sold again into complete estrangement, that they did not have that rhythm in Africa and could not bring it along with them, that this invention started slowly and haphazardly to develop into slave songs and then later forms of black music. His insistance on a complete break is surprising. He refuses to accept the idea that it was in the genes of the Blacks. I can understand such a refusal. Yet, here and there, he gives facts that go against the idea of a complete break, and what's more he explores what music Africans had in Africa at the time. His idea seems to be that this rhythm was invented under the strain of slavery and all its torture, violence and exploitation, as a reaction to it. He does not seem very clear on that point of the break or the continuity of the Blacks from Africa to America. He seems to forget that Africans were very often trilingual to be able to exchange with their neighbors. He seems not to know that most languages of the slaves were from western Africa, hence from one group of languages ; Bambara or Manding, itself from the wider family of bantu languages. This means that many words, the general intonation and the syntax was very common from one language to the next. The Whites did not know those languages and could not even understand them for most of them, which means that they scattered the slaves according to their original African villages more than according to their languages. He does not take into account the process that created the creole language(s), which is the survival of some lexicon and a lot of syntax of the African Bantu languages into either English or Spanish or French that were imposed onto them. The process accelerated the evolution of the European languages and produced either the creole language(s) we can find in the West Indies, oreven on the continent, or further on down the road of integration the present language of African-Americans, Black English. Some of the testimonies given by Radano even go that way with one preacher who advises his colleagues to learn the language the Blacks speak in order to evengelize them better and faster. The extreme violence of the process of enslavement associated with the complete transportation away from Africa makes communication a necessity and makes the birth of such a language extremely rapid. It only took about one hundred years in England for Anglo-Saxon to evolved into the first forms of the creole language known as Middle English, and the invasion of England by the Normans was a lot less violent and d&eacute;culturizing, which does not mean the loss of one's culture, but the destructurization of one's culture and later restructurization of it. What's more he forgets that the slaves often arrived in the West Indies where they stayed some time to recuperate a little bit under the control of their transporters who were mainly Spanish or French and these did not scatter them away at once. As for the French, often the slaves were captured in Africa and brought to Bordeaux, for example, to be kept for a while in the lower floor of some houses built along the embankment of the river in collective « cellars » or « jails », each transporter having his own slave-house. His lack of knowledge of the process makes him state something that cannot be accepted as an acceptable hypothesis. There was less of a break than he pretends, and the voyage of the slaves from Africa to the American plantations may have taken several months.<br />But his rhythm exploration does not have enough scope. He encloses it inside the black community in the United States, so that he cannot characterize the black invention except with the word « syncopation ». Percussions have existed in all societies, and not only in « primitive societies ». In the Middle Ages they were varied and used in all popular music for dancing. But this popular music and its percussions were introduced in the churches in the famous masses of fools or asses, or in the biblical opera of the 13th century, Ludus Danielis, or in the Danses Macabres of the 15th century. On the other side poplyphony was devised in the 12th-13th century within gregorian church singing and it was introduced into secular music by Adam de la Halle and his « opera » Robin and Marion in the 12th century. In fact we should also speak of the courtly secular music of Troubadours and Trouveres, hence of three styles in constant dialogue and exchange. Rhythm and percussions were mainly from one style but spread to the others. In the 16th century the English madrigal developed under Henry VIII by the junction of popular songs, often known as maypole songs, and the new Italian style arriving in England. Diderot in his Encyclopedia has one full page dedicated to percussions (13 different instruments) in the 18th century, and it does not include the tam-tam. But rhythm which was carried by the tempo of the melody  was also emphasized by percussions or the use of some instruments like the violin, or the strings (Vivaldi), or wind instruments (Purcell). The 18th century is the century of the strange migration of one tempo. The ternary « bourr&eacute;e » was borrowed by J.S. Bach as a rather heavy and rustic tempo from village dances. Mozart borrowed it in his turn and made it light and spinning. And it was to become the waltz later for Viennese salons and then to go back to the people and become very popular indeed late in the 19th century. Exchange is the master word in such musical inventions : here a new tempo which is also a new rhythm.<br />What Radano misses here is essential, and typically African. African rhythm is double. There is what corresponds to our tempo marking the strong beat of the measure, often slow and followed by simple dancers. But there is also another rhythm that is fast, attimes very fast, following all the beats of the measure, at times even beats cut up into sections, and that rhythm can lead to a dance that is completely different, edging even onto a real transe. That is the real invention of African music, the two rhythmic lines, one slow, one fast, that follow each other, are superimposed onto each other. If you slightly push the fast one forward it produces the syncopation we are speaking of. Modern drums are devised to be able to work two or three different simultaneous rhythmic lines. European dances could be very fast too, like the Italian tarantella, but we never had two rhythmic lines.<br />But this invention is not black anymore. It is part of the human universal heritage and culture of the whole world. Note such effects were possible in European music with one instruments providing the official tempo and another filling in the tempo with a much faster rhythm, « too many notes » as it is said about Mozart. The piano even led to that with the opposition between the two hands (which was not possible with the harpsichord because of its rather limited range). And it is that potential that explains the great success of the piano with black music, which is thus a pure case of exchange, of giving back, or taking back something in exchange for something else. This very remark, the invention of the piano forte first and the real modern piano second at the end of the 18th century and at the beginning of the 19th century respectively in Europe, leads us to the next step in the discussion Radano introduces us to.<br /><br />4- Rhythm and the modern world<br />Here we come to an essential discussion. Radano develops it but not far enough. This emergence of rhythm or rather double syncopated rhythm was an expression of a change in working and living rhythms.<br />Songs to accompany work have always existed among workers of all types. Sailors are well known for that but also mowers and thrashers when these activities of mowing and thrashing were performed by hand. It was also linked to European « compagnonages », « corporations » and « free-masons » in the Middle Ages. I could quote one of these songs still used in the 1960s and 1970s by industrial carpenters to get rid of an annoying foreman. Two lines sung by a few and then two lines sung by all the workers, over and over again, till the foreman left the workshop. Such songs go back to very old history and we must not forget that call and answer singing was the normal rule of gregorian chants.<br />But the 19th century, the industrial revolution, urbanization brought a new rhythm in life, always faster, especially with mechanization, fordism and taylorism, or with hectic urban life with subways, trains and automobiles. The human body had to adapt to this new rhythm and to quicken its pace and reflexes tremendously. It brought rhythm, or rather fast rhythm into our life. The African invention, that existed in Africa long before slavery in America, translate that marvellously. The basic heart rhythm did not change, but the fast rhythm of the nerve impulse needed for fast reflexes and quick stereotyped actions was a new thing in life. Radano sees it but does not use it to explain why that rhythmic music became popular nearly over night and to show how vain and useless all attempts to stop the phenomenon or to contain it were bound to be. It goes beyond any class or ethnic group. It is the expression of a new stage in human development and its success shows how the new rhythm in life also - in a way - produced it by taking over some thing that already existed with another signification to express the new environment.<br />You can find that notion of exploded life and living rhythm expressed with other means, in music pieces by Prokofiev, Stravinsky and many others, plus of course all the modern developments we know in all types of music. African-Americans just proposed an original way of expressing that change, and it produced a completely new planet of music. The emergence of percussions in classical European music started with Beethoven, then Berlioz (the Tuba mirum of his Requiem requires sixteen kettle drums and ten percussionists to play them) and then Schoenberg, Stravinsky (who found it so easy to shift from his Russian music to jazz), Bartok, Varese, etc. Today we can even have full orchestras with only percussions. But if you widen the discourse you get out of the racially determined US locked-up approach, you get out of the dual vision of Blacks versus Whites and reach a universal vision of many different styles and groups having percussions and dual or even more syncopated, or not, rhythm in common. We definitely have to get out of dual thinking if we want to reach some valid and constructive conclusion.<br /><br />« Ce que r&eacute;clame [Charles Hoy] Fort contre Descartes, [...] c'est une nouvelle structure mentale, capable de percevoir comme r&eacute;els les &eacute;tats interm&eacute;diaires entre le oui et le non, le positif et le n&eacute;gatif. C'est-&agrave;-dire un raisonnement au-dessus du binaire. Un troisi&egrave;me aeil de l'intelligence, en quelque sorte. » (Louis Pauwels, Jacques Bergier, Le Matin des magiciens, Paris, 1960, speaking of Charles Hoy Fort who published a book in New York in 1919)<br /><br />This leads me to the idea that at the end of the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century, people like W.E.B. Dubois started thinking that the dual racially determined society that was imposed by the powerful Whites of the United States was no longer able to carry any progress. Martin Luther King Jr and Ralph Ellison later, and many others, Whites or Blacks, in the US or in the world, widened this vision especially within the context of the Cold War that divided the world in two.<br /><br />5- Conclusion<br />This book could have reached a universal and universalized approach of Ellison's and Dubois's dialectical contributions to define American culture, nation and music, as a common construct of all Americans in a situation of constant democratic diversity. It could even have reached the level of the world. But it traps the debate in the racial context of the US by not reaching out beyond US borders, both in the past (when the US was only a small section of the North American continent) and in the present (when the US is only one little country in an ever widening world), and by more or less explicitly stating, always thinking, that the Blacks and the Whites are homogeneous groups, to the point that the Whites who fought and still fight against this racial divide have no deep and old roots to do so. It is like an accident or coincidence. This restricted approach then more or less justifies social darwinism and even seems to consider Darwin as the one who opened the door to this perversion of all his thinking and scientific work (p. 249).<br />Let me conclude with Radano :<br /><br />« We as a nation remain committed to such binary thinking whether in discussions of classical music, pop, or jazz, or even in the arenas of world beat and electronic dance music, the rhythmic dynamism of which seems underlaid with discourses of dark primal ecstasy. The racial imagination of black music is not only still with us, it exceeds racial and national bounds. [...] According to this logic, sameness remains perhaps forever linked to difference, to the dynamic, relational tension between blackness and whiteness. [...] The stability of instability reverberates loudly from the final pages of The Souls of Black Folk as he [W.E.B Dubois] issues his defiant message to white Americans. » (p. 284-285)<br /><br />This conclusion contains a contradiction that Radano has never tried nor been able to solve or even overcome. And this contradiction blocks any dynamism : stating that the racial imagination of black music exceeds racial and national bounds and at the same time it is reduced to the relational tension between blackness and whiteness.Contradictions cannot be solved by the elimination of one of the opposing elements, proving orthodox dual thinkers including marxists wrong, but it cannot be reduced to just two elements, otherwise the instability will produce recurrent catastrophic setbacks. It is by working within this instability to produce some change without breaking the back of the camel or capsizing the boat that things may change, maybe slowly, but surely. We have to build alliances within this instability to weigh onto it and make it move in one direction rather than another and produce a new instability that will be better for everyone, or at least for the majority. That is the meaning of Dubois and Ellison for today when we reach the globalized level of the world. Remember our limit is the sky if we are able to seize the day, as some Black Panthers of old used to say.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUher who advises his colleagues to learn the language the Blacks speak in order to evengelize them better and faster. The extreme violence of the process of enslavement associated with the complete transportation away from Africa makes communication a necessity and makes the birth of such a language extremely rapid. It only took about one hundred years in England for Anglo-Saxon to evolved into the first forms of the creole language known as Middle English, and the invasion of England by the Normans was a lot less violent and déculturizing, which does not mean the loss of one's culture, but the destructurization of one's culture and later restructurization of it. What's more he forgets that the slaves often arrived in the West Indies where they stayed some time to recuperate a little bit under the control of their transporters who were mainly Spanish or French and these did not scatter them away at once. As for the French, often the slaves were captured in Africa and brought to Bordeaux, for example, to be kept for a while in the lower floor of some houses built along the embankment of the river in collective « cellars » or « jails », each transporter having his own slave-house. His lack of knowledge of the process makes him state something that cannot be accepted as an acceptable hypothesis. There was less of a break than he pretends, and the voyage of the slaves from Africa to the American plantations may have taken several months.<br />But his rhythm exploration does not have enough scope. He encloses it inside the black community in the United States, so that he cannot characterize the black invention except with the word « syncopation ». Percussions have existed in all societies, and not only in « primitive societies ». In the Middle Ages they were varied and used in all popular music for dancing. But this popular music and its percussions were introduced in the churches in the famous masses of fools or asses, or in the biblical opera of the 13th century, Ludus Danielis, or in the Danses Macabres of the 15th century. On the other side poplyphony was devised in the 12th-13th century within gregorian church singing and it was introduced into secular music by Adam de la Halle and his « opera » Robin and Marion in the 12th century. In fact we should also speak of the courtly secular music of Troubadours and Trouveres, hence of three styles in constant dialogue and exchange. Rhythm and percussions were mainly from one style but spread to the others. In the 16th century the English madrigal developed under Henry VIII by the junction of popular songs, often known as maypole songs, and the new Italian style arriving in England. Diderot in his Encyclopedia has one full page dedicated to percussions (13 different instruments) in the 18th century, and it does not include the tam-tam. But rhythm which was carried by the tempo of the melody  was also emphasized by percussions or the use of some instruments like the violin, or the strings (Vivaldi), or wind instruments (Purcell). The 18th century is the century of the strange migration of one tempo. The ternary « bourrée » was borrowed by J.S. Bach as a rather heavy and rustic tempo from village dances. Mozart borrowed it in his turn and made it light and spinning. And it was to become the waltz later for Viennese salons and then to go back to the people and become very popular indeed late in the 19th century. Exchange is the master word in such musical inventions : here a new tempo which is also a new rhythm.<br />What Radano misses here is essential, and typically African. African rhythm is double. There is what corresponds to our tempo marking the strong beat of the measure, often slow and followed by simple dancers. But there is also another rhythm that is fast, at times very fast, following all the beats of the measure, at times even beats cut up into sections, and that rhythm can lead to a dance that is completely different, edging even onto a real transe. That is the real invention of African music, the two rhythmic lines, one slow, one fast, that follow each other, are superimposed onto each other. If you slightly push the fast one forward it produces the syncopation we are speaking of. Modern drums are devised to be able to work two or three different simultaneous rhythmic lines. European dances could be very fast too, like the Italian tarantella, but we never had two rhythmic lines.<br />But this invention is not black anymore. It is part of the human universal heritage and culture of the whole world. Note such effects were possible in European music with one instruments providing the official tempo and another filling in the tempo with a much faster rhythm, « too many notes » as it is said about Mozart. The piano even led to that with the opposition between the two hands (which was not possible with the harpsichord because of its rather limited range). And it is that potential that explains the great success of the piano with black music, which is thus a pure case of exchange, of giving back, or taking back something in exchange for something else. This very remark, the invention of the piano forte first and the real modern piano second at the end of the 18th century and at the beginning of the 19th century respectively in Europe, leads us to the next step in the discussion Radano introduces us to.<br /><br />4- Rhythm and the modern world<br />Here we come to an essential discussion. Radano develops it but not far enough. This emergence of rhythm or rather double syncopated rhythm was an expression of a change in working and living rhythms.<br />Songs to accompany work have always existed among workers of all types. Sailors are well known for that but also mowers and thrashers when these activities of mowing and thrashing were performed by hand. It was also linked to European « compagnonages », « corporations » and « free-masons » in the Middle Ages. I could quote one of these songs still used in the 1960s and 1970s by industrial carpenters to get rid of an annoying foreman. Two lines sung by a few and then two lines sung by all the workers, over and over again, till the foreman left the workshop. Such songs go back to very old history and we must not forget that call and answer singing was the normal rule of gregorian chants.<br />But the 19th century, the industrial revolution, urbanization brought a new rhythm in life, always faster, especially with mechanization, fordism and taylorism, or with hectic urban life with subways, trains and automobiles. The human body had to adapt to this new rhythm and to quicken its pace and reflexes tremendously. It brought rhythm, or rather fast rhythm into our life. The African invention, that existed in Africa long before slavery in America, translate that marvellously. The basic heart rhythm did not change, but the fast rhythm of the nerve impulse needed for fast reflexes and quick stereotyped actions was a new thing in life. Radano sees it but does not use it to explain why that rhythmic music became popular nearly over night and to show how vain and useless all attempts to stop the phenomenon or to contain it were bound to be. It goes beyond any class or ethnic group. It is the expression of a new stage in human development and its success shows how the new rhythm in life also - in a way - produced it by taking over some thing that already existed with another signification to express the new environment.<br />You can find that notion of exploded life and living rhythm expressed with other means, in music pieces by Prokofiev, Stravinsky and many others, plus of course all the modern developments we know in all types of music. African-Americans just proposed an original way of expressing that change, and it produced a completely new planet of music. The emergence of percussions in classical European music started with Beethoven, then Berlioz (the Tuba mirum of his Requiem requires sixteen kettle drums and ten percussionists to play them) and then Schoenberg, Stravinsky (who found it so easy to shift from his Russian music to jazz), Bartok, Varese, etc. Today we can even have full orchestras with only percussions. But if you widen the discourse you get out of the racially determined US locked-up approach, you get out of the dual vision of Blacks versus Whites and reach a universal vision of many different styles and groups having percussions and dual or even more syncopated, or not, rhythm in common. We definitely have to get out of dual thinking if we want to reach some valid and constructive conclusion.<br /><br />« Ce que réclame [Charles Hoy] Fort contre Descartes, [...] c'est une nouvelle structure mentale, capable de percevoir comme réels les états intermédiaires entre le oui et le non, le positif et le négatif. C'est-à-dire un raisonnement au-dessus du binaire. Un troisième aeil de l'intelligence, en quelque sorte. » (Louis Pauwels, Jacques Bergier, Le Matin des magiciens, Paris, 1960, speaking of Charles Hoy Fort who published a book in New York in 1919)<br /><br />This leads me to the idea that at the end of the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century, people like W.E.B. Dubois started thinking that the dual racially determined society that was imposed by the powerful Whites of the United States was no longer able to carry any progress. Martin Luther King Jr and Ralph Ellison later, and many others, Whites or Blacks, in the US or in the world, widened this vision especially within the context of the Cold War that divided the world in two.<br /><br />5- Conclusion<br />This book could have reached a universal and universalized approach of Ellison's and Dubois's dialectical contributions to define American culture, nation and music, as a common construct of all Americans in a situation of constant democratic diversity. It could even have reached the level of the world. But it traps the debate in the racial context of the US by not reaching out beyond US borders, bothin the past (when the US was only a small section of the North American continent) and in the present (when the US is only one little country in an ever widening world), and by more or less explicitly stating, always thinking, that the Blacks and the Whites are homogeneous groups, to the point that the Whites who fought and still fight against this racial divide have no deep and old roots to do so. It is like an accident or coincidence. This restricted approach then more or less justifies social darwinism and even seems to consider Darwin as the one who opened the door to this perversion of all his thinking and scientific work (p. 249).<br />Let me conclude with Radano :<br /><br />« We as a nation remain committed to such binary thinking whether in discussions of classical music, pop, or jazz, or even in the arenas of world beat and electronic dance music, the rhythmic dynamism of which seems underlaid with discourses of dark primal ecstasy. The racial imagination of black music is not only still with us, it exceeds racial and national bounds. [...] According to this logic, sameness remains perhaps forever linked to difference, to the dynamic, relational tension between blackness and whiteness. [...] The stability of instability reverberates loudly from the final pages of The Souls of Black Folk as he [W.E.B Dubois] issues his defiant message to white Americans. » (p. 284-285)<br /><br />This conclusion contains a contradiction that Radano has never tried nor been able to solve or even overcome. And this contradiction blocks any dynamism : stating that the racial imagination of black music exceeds racial and national bounds and at the same time it is reduced to the relational tension between blackness and whiteness. Contradictions cannot be solved by the elimination of one of the opposing elements, proving orthodox dual thinkers including marxists wrong, but it cannot be reduced to just two elements, otherwise the instability will produce recurrent catastrophicsetbacks. It is by working within this instability to produce some change without breaking the back of the camel or capsizing the boat that things may change, maybe slowly, but surely. We have to build alliances within this instability to weigh onto it and make it move in one direction rather than another and produce a new instability that will be better for everyone, or at least for the majority. That is the meaning of Dubois and Ellison for today when we reach the globalized level of the world. Remember our limit is the sky if we are able to seize the day, as some Black Panthers of old used to say.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-01-26
US	50989966	R2QZCLNGTTWQKD	0195181409	536033901	Truth and Fiction in The Da Vinci Code: A Historian Reveals What We Really Know about Jesus, Mary Magdalene, and Constantine	Books	4	6	23	N	N	Biassed: Vanitas Vanitatum et omnia Vanitas	We all know Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code. It is selling in millions all over the world. It is an excellent thriller. But we are not going to discuss this book as a piece of literature, following in that Bart D. Ehrman. We are not even going to fiscuss this book at all. The two themes it contains are looming high in books and on the wide screen at the moment : the Holy Grail seen as Mary Magdalene, the spouse of Jesus, and their blood line still alive, on one hand, and, on the other, the Templars and their treasure captured in the founding layers of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem during the Crusades. Walt Disney is also interested in that gold mine and their recent National Treasure deals with the second theme and ignores the first. We will follow Bart D. Ehrman here and we will only take into a account the topics the book deals with, i.e. the Christian elements in the novel, b ut through a discussion of Ehrman's own book, hence discuss Ehrman's historical method and not the religiouzs topics as such. The truth does not interest us here but the method we can use to analyze the documents at stake in these religious topics and what we can draw from them about the history of Christianity or even the history of humanity and their cultures and world representations at the time of the birth of Christianity.<br /><br />Ehrman presents us with a book that is going to be essential in the debate, if not even controversy, that is raging around Dan Brown's book. Dan Brown had been clear in the book itself and had announced that all those who are for a rather conservative approach of the Christian faith, particularly the catholic church, will get up in arms to fight against the ideas and hypotheses contained in his book. As a matter of fact, Dan Brown had chosen to make his heroes keep the secret and the « treasure » in its hiding place, which is by the way under the Louvres pyramid, not to disturb the course of history, not to create a real mess in the minds of millions of people, which implies that Dan brown does not know where this hypothetical treasure is and hence would not be able to retrieve it and publish it. But, even if Dan Brown does not bring up the content of this treasure, the book contains enough controversial elements for a real battle to start raging around them. Bart D. Ehrman is one of the battlefield knights but on the side of orthodoxy and continuity. Yet that is not the main interest of his book. His book is a textbook about what he calls « critical history » and a demonstration how it works. And it is this level of this book I would like to discuss here.<br /><br />The work of a « critical historian » in the field of the history of early Christianity and of the study of early Christian documents is very clearly explained in his sixth chapter, in a subchapter entitled « Our Methods for Reconstructing the Life of the Historical Jesus » (p. 122-126). He states that critical historians follow four principles in that perspective that all deal with which documents are supposed to be considered as valid, how to look at these documents and what conclusion to draw out of them. We are going to discuss these four principles, not in general but in the light of the study of Christian documents at the time of the birth and building of the early Christian church.<br /><br />The First Principle<br />The first principle is « The Earlier the Better ».<br /><br />Ehrman thus classifies the Gospels according to their dates of writing. For him the first Gospel to have been written is Mark's, then two come later but borrowing a lot from this first one, viz. Matthew's and Luke. John's come a lot later and is not at all used or examined since it is stated to be quite different. We can also note that among the other canonical documents, the Book of Revelation is absolutely not even mentioned, and the only ones to be used in some depth are Paul's letters. He rejects completely all apocrypha and pseudepigrapha, even those he quickly considers, since they are all dated from a later period.<br /><br />This criterion brings up a serious problem. Ehrman is able to trace in Matthew's and Luke's Gospels what is borrowed from Mark's, what is borrowed from an hypothetical Q manuscript that would have been a collection of quotations from Christ's preaching, and some other sources, L for what is original to Luke only and M for what is orginal to Matthew only. This is quite standard in the field, but provided we ignore the Secret Gospel of Mark.<br /><br />This first and extensive version of Mark's Gospel was brought into existence through the discovery, in 1958 by Professor Morton Smith at the Mar Saba monastery, southest of Jerusalem, of a letter attributed to the bishop Clement of Alexandria who quotes it and rejects a version used by the Carpocratians, the Christian followers of Carpocrates (fl. c.130-c. 150, according to the Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition, 2001, that historically position the preaching period of that « Alexandrian philosopher ») from Alexandria and his son Epiphanes. The interest of this letter by Clement is that it reveals one particularly striking episode (in two successive incidents with the same people) in Jesus life. It is asserted as true by Clement. It is asserted that there are many other elements in the Secret Gospel of Mark used by the Carpocratians that are true, but they are not specified, and also many other elements that are falsified without any specification, which brings to mind the idea that these elements may be true and already the sign of a « rewriting » of ancient sources to fit a canonical vision of Jesus emerging at the time. The very existence of this Secret Gospel of Mark proves that older documents did exist before and were circulated in writ. It also proves, if we look at the quotations from this Secret Gospel of Mark in Clement's letter, that Jesus and his followers practiced a quite different type of conversion « rite » or procedure from the one we are used to consider. Let me quote these two passages :<br /><br />« And they come into Bethany. And a certain woman whose brother had died was there. And, coming, she prostrated herself before Jesus and says to him : `'Son of David, have mercy on me''. But the disciples rebuked her. And Jesus, being angered, went off with her into the garden where the tomb was, and straightaway, going in where the youth was, he stretched forth his hand and raised him, seizing his hand. But the youth looking upon him, loved him and began to beseech him that he might be with him. And going out of the tomb they came into the house of the youth, for he was rich. And after six days Jesus told him what to do and in the evening the youth comes to him, wearing a linen cloth over his naked body. And he remained with him that night, for Jesus taught him the mystery of the Kingdom of God. And thence, arising, he returned to the other side of the Jordan. »<br /><br />This passage is situated in the Gospel (that we understand as being the official one) of Mark by Clement in these words : « For example, after `'And they were in the road going up to Jerusalem'' and what follows, until `'After three days he shall arise'', the Secret Gospel brings the following material word for word. »<br /><br />Clement refutes the Carpocratian addiction : « naked men with naked men ».<br /><br />But Clement adds then a second quotation from the Secret Gospel of Mark :<br /><br />« And after the words, `'And he comes into Jericho,'' the secret Gospel adds only, `'And the sister of the youth whom Jesus loved and his mother and Salome were there, and Jesus did not receive them.'' »<br /><br />Without entering the debate about the sexual practices one can imagine from such quotations, even with Clement's correction that shows a desire to lead to a non-sexual interpretation rather than the sexual one, we have here a document that is essential to assess the validity of all later writings. Note before starting that these excerpts from the Secret Gospel of Mark bring into our mental picture a strange verse in Jesus's Passion in Mark's Gospel at the moment of Jesus's arrest, a verse that no one has ever been able to interpret, and what's more a verse that is kept entirely by Bach In his Mark's Passion : « A young man who followed him had nothing on but a linen cloth. They caught hold of him, but he left the cloth in their hands and ran away naked. » (14:52) We could see a link there and hence start seeing a possible meaning that remains to be elaborated.<br /><br />First, Mark is definitely someone who wrote early, as Clement specifies : « As for Mark, then, during Peter's stay in Rome he wrote an account of the Lord's doings, not, however, declaring all of them, nor yet hinting at the secret ones, but selecting what he thought most useful for increasing the faith of those who were being instructed. » We can note that there are even facts and recollections that are kept secret out of this Secret Gospel of Mark by Mark himself but that are known of the inner circle of the nascent church and hence transmitted orally.<br /><br />Second, Mark wrote himself this Secret Gospel and we even know when. This goes against a remark that Ehrman often reiterates that most of the followers of Jesus and even his apostles were illiterate. Mark was not as proved here. Matthew by profession was not as a tax collector. Luke by profession was not as a doctor, and also as an artist if we believe the Christian Orthodox tradition that says Luke was the first to paint an icon, and that this icon represented the Holy Virgin Mary. And the Book of Revelation (1:9) was written by John himself when in prison in Patmos, even if we can follow the Jerusalem Bible when it says it probably was made up of several different apocalypses (two) and maybe other texts from different authors, but all from the Johannine circle.<br /><br />Third, these early documents circulated with addenda or not. In those days books had to be copied. The copier could change many things. But the preaching was oral of course and the spreading of the « good news » was mainly oral too, at least for the masses of the preached one and future converts (it is clearly said in the Book of Revelation, 1:3). Ehrman takes this into account but without understanding or mentioning that in an oral society like that of Jesus, memory was an extremely well developed quality both among some people who had memory as a profession, but also among all people. And that memory was literally photographic, absolutely faithful and perfect. In Africa for instance we can know the older state of an African oral language by studying what the griots have committed to their memory, be it laws, rules, commercial agreements or tales (the first three elements require perfect fidelity to what was decided, agreed upon or said). Ehrman does not use this element enough and in fact underestimates it. The writings may be from a later period but oral transmission in this society had to be extensive and faithful. Which means distortions were voluntary and motivated, hence meaningful, and they have to be studied in detail, though it is difficult to know what is what in two different versions of one event : who is the one who distorted and who is the one who did not distort ? But there are no reasons to reject Gospels that were transmitted orally and transcribed later on in any language. By the way that is Clement's attitude, but Clement of course had or knew the original versions of the texts at the time, even the secret elements that were not written but only transmitted orally among those who were in a closed and inner circle in the church. Some French catholic researchers (Francis Lapierre and Dominique Labb&eacute;) presented at the University of Western Brittany in Brest in november 2004 a study of Mark's Gospel showing how the doublets or parallel verses can be analyzed as reflecting a semitic source for one verse and aGreek source for the other, which is the proof that the Gospel existed in Amaraic first and was tranferred into Greek later on. The necessity of the parallel verses comes from great differences between the two languages, hence for example the opposition between « rabbi » on the Semitic side and « lord » on the Greek side. It is quite obvious that « rabbi » does not have an equivalent in Greek and that the use of « lord » enables to approach the meaningL This also proves that these canonical texts were « written » in successive layers according to the linguistic need of the preaching and missionary work as the Christian faith spread beyond its Semitic original area.<br /><br />Fourth, most of the texts were probably written collectively within Christian circles. Ehrman says so and it is quite clear when we study the texture itself of the text linguistically, which had been true too of the canonical books of the Old Testament : we all know the two successive versions of the creation of the world and man in Genesis that are linguistically different, along with some differences in content. Ehrman names some groups, though he remains general with the gnostics instead of taking particular groups (the gnostics around and after Philip in the Coptic church have little to do with the carpocratians), but here again he neglects the Johannines who played an important role by being behind both John's Gospel (who may have been written or even composed by someone else or some other people than John, even Mary Magdalene if we want to follow Ramon K. Jusino, M.A., 1998) and the Book of Revelation, according to the Jerusalem Bible.<br /><br />The Second Principle<br />The second principle is « Piling on the Testimonies ».<br /><br />If one fact is only present in these already selected texts only once, it is rejected as dubious. To be considered as reflecting the truth a fact has to be mentioned several times in different documents. This is a prudent principle but in no way a guarantee of truthful conclusions. At times one single element can be crucial and may have been neglected by all but one person. Ehrman gives himself a good example of this : he got from one man only the verbal testimony that the Egyptians who were digging for some fertilizer when they came upon what was to become the Nag Hammadi Library, first hit a skeleton. He accepts it apparently because he got it from « the head of the archaeological team » that was « later responsible for exploring the site near Nag Hammadi » (p. 192, note 5). One man who got it from other people later (no date about the team's work in the book) that is to say several years at least after the actual find : embellishing stories is a very human quality both for the farmers in Egypt and also for archaeologists when it has no consequence whatsoever on the value of the documents that were found there. Its singularity does not mean it is a fantasy even if it may be. Otherwise UFOs are definitely true.<br /><br />But some elements can only be found, and repetitively at times, in the texts that emanate from Mary, Thomas or Philip and their followers or continuators, and other apocryphal or pseudepigraphal texts. The question here is why have these texts that can only represent long oral traditions, been excluded by the church at a certain time, even if it took three centuries to do so, but also by « critical historians » today, and this in spite of the « piling up » of testimonies in these documents ? As a historian we do not have to assess this or that assertion as conceivable or not, for instance the miracles, scientifically. We have to assess the picture these documents want the audience to have of Jesus.<br /><br />Ehrman is going to say that he wants to really build an objective and real knowledge of the material real man called Jesus. Right. But then he should have mentioned the meaning of Christ, the anointed one, and then moved to the word « chrism » that is only used in apocryphal writings, though Jesus is called the anointed one quite often everywhere. For instance in the Gospel of Bartholomew :<br /><br />« Jesus said unto him : `'Bartholomew, my Father did name me Christ, that I might come down upon earth and anoint every man that cometh unto me with the oil of life : and he did call me Jesus  that I might heal every sin of them that know not ... and give unto men (several corrupt words : the Latin has) the truth of God.'' » (IV:65)<br /><br />The text shows that the truth of God is latin and not the original language Greek, or the other derived language Slavonic, not to speak of the original oral language in which this Gospel was spread out of Palestine and its Semitic Aramaic or other dialects and languages. This ointment, this chrism is a real mystery about Jesus and his practices, this oil of life, corrected in a way into the truth of God. The question here is, accepting the anointing Jesus practiced undeniably with some ointment, the chrism, to know the nature of this chrism, this ointment.<br /><br />Many discussions are going on and around about this secret ointment the rabbis used in their secret meditation and preparation. Jesus here seems to say that he has the mission to reveal this secret to everyone and use it for everyone. That goes along with the Secret Gospel of Mark : why in the nude if not for any sexual contact ? To be anointed with this oil of life ? That is no magic (a concept that will develop quite later) but maybe and probably a simple medicine of these days, and anointing people with special oils was common practice and will remain common practice for many centuries, before being turned into witchcraft in the late Middle Ages. Those oils were composed of many elements and we know that some had bacteria-killing qualities, or leading to visions if not  hallucinations. This was a common practice among the Jews from the Exodus to the Kaballah :<br /><br />« The chrism. Yahweh spoke to Moses and said : `'Take the choices spices : ... liquid myrrh... fragrant cinnamon... scented cane... cassia... olive oil... compound into a holy chrism...'' » (Exodus, 30:22-25).<br /><br />What is this « scented cane » ? In Hebrew it is « kaneh-bosm » (note a plural due to the « -m » ending, hence leading to the understanding of it as the floral endings of some plant. Some even see in this word the designation of « cannabis ». In a word, if we use Ehrman's second principles with all the documents that have been rejected out of the canon, and he accepts this rejection, we come to some disquieting questions we probably cannot be answered.<br /><br />The Third Principle<br />The third principle is « Cutting Against the Grain ».<br /><br />Here Ehrman considers the elements in the canon that go against the grain of a certain picture the church of the time wanted to give of Jesus, according to what we think the church's intention was. But how do we know it since we have so few documents according to Ehrman. He considers there must be some pregnant value in these elements for them to have been retained. I like this argument but it is in many ways circular. We choose an element in documents that are extremely difficult to assess as authentic based on the intention of the church at the time that can only be rebuilt from documents that have been produced and retained in a context of deep divisions and conflicts within the Christian community, and hence that are very difficult to assess as authentically representing the will or desire of the church.<br /><br />These surviving documents that are in no way canonical but are instructions, orders, recommendations from the important bishops or thinkers of the church, are obviously political and ideological, produced to build and defend an institution, what's more a nascent institution. It is quite clear that those opposed to this orientation either did not have the means or the authority to produce similar documents, or they were declared heretics and their production was destroyed. Actually Ehrman gives a perfect example of what happened before and after the council of Nicea with the debate between Arius and Athanasius, both from Alexandria in the fourth century. Since Athanasius won in Nicea, Arius disappeared from the picture and we can think Athanasius is the cause of the burying of the gnostic books that will become the Nag Hammadi Library recovered from the desert only in 1945.<br /><br />But this third principle should lead Ehrman to at least include some of the elements found in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha because they obviously go against the grain, particularly the gnostic elements, or the elements we can find in the gnostic corpus of docuemnts, because we know the church fought very hard against these facts, these documents and even the people who were inspired by them.<br /><br />the Fourth Ptinciple<br />The fourth principle is « Context is (Almost) Everything ».<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />Conclusion<br />To conclude, without discussing all the elements brought forward in Ehrman's book, I will say that we cannot capture who Jesus was if we do not deal with this character or personage from an anthropological point of view and with an anthropological method enriched with a lot of linguistics. After all Jesus was first of all a voice, a preacher, someone who moved the world with his oral discourse, and first of all by attracting around him a set of people who will become his voice after his death. Was Jesus also a political calculator ? Maybe. But he never conquered political power, so the question is useless and vain. Were his disciples political people ? Definitely. Their perspective was to build a movement that could lead them to power, or rather lead their movement, their convictions to power and Constantine will give them full satisfaction.<br /><br />So where is Jesus in that ? He is the one who brought a discourse that could articulate the contradictions of the time into some kind of a new synthesis of the antagons. And here, though Ehrman negates it in a way and yet accepts it too, Constantine was crucial. Without Constantine that new synthesis would not have been possible or would have taken a lot more time to get into power, hence that new equilibrium which was indispensible because the Empire was confronted to the Germanic tribes who were not knocking at the door for entry but starting to knock the doors down. The Christian religion was the only easy way for Constantine to unify the Empire, after he had conquered power of course, under his rule and get it ready for the coming fights and battles.<br /><br /> Even in his most apocalyptical approach, Jesus or his followers, particularly John, was seeing beyond this apocalypse. Men and women were supposed to be ready for the coming of this Doomsday and he understood that things had to be done straight away and in  the society the way it was, though that meant changing it, changing the rules, no longer cleaning your hands, as if being clean in your  body was enough to be clean for God, but cleaning your heart because real cleanliness is in the heart and not in the body, and by heart Jesus always meant the spirit that is in any man and any woman and can receive God and his message. So there is no point discussing Jesus's marriage to Mary Magdalene, etc, because that was not the point for Jesus and his followers : the point was to move the world forward for it to be ready for doomsday, though I think we have quite enough elements in the canonical Gospels and texts and in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha to assert that Jesus did not have a desexualized vision of or ideal for the world, present and future. And we have to take the whole corpus of early Christian documents (over three centuries) in an athropological approach to understand anything and reconstruct the mystery (common meaning not Christian meaning) that is called Jesus.<br /><br />I think this book is essential if we want to get someperspective about Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code, but it is not enough and Dan Brown's book does not deserve researchers in relihgious history to analyze and criticize it. It is not a piece of research in that field. It is a novel and nothing else, not even science fiction. So read Ehrman's book and try to neglect the constant hammering it contains against Dan Brown's book. Read it for the research and method on historical questions it contains. You may even see better why Blake was Blake, why the radical dissenters of the 17th century were so divided, and you may understand that when a social contradiction is engrossed with a religious contradiction, the solution will have to come from within that religious contradiction, if we do not want to get into radical solutions that some other people in the 20th century also called final solutions.<br /><br />Bart D. Ehrman should have worked six more months on that book to get away from Dan Brown and up into a wider and more constructive approach. One thing is sure, Dan Brown, if that was his intention as exposed in the book by a couple of characters, has definitely stirred the boat of the tradition in religion and millions of people are probably somewhere wondering about some crucial religious questions, even if most of them know that a book is a virtual being that more or less loses all reality when we close the back cover down.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUarantee of truthful conclusions. At times one single element can be crucial and may have been neglected by all but one person. Ehrman gives himself a good example of this : he got from one man only the verbal testimony that the Egyptians who were digging for some fertilizer when they came upon what was to become the Nag Hammadi Library, first hit a skeleton. He accepts it apparently because he got it from « the head of the archaeological team » that was « later responsible for exploring the site near Nag Hammadi » (p. 192, note 5). One man who got it from other people later (no date about the team's work in the book) that is to say several years at least after the actual find : embellishing stories is a very human quality both for the farmers in Egypt and also for archaeologists when it has no consequence whatsoever on the value of the documents that were found there. Its singularity does not mean it is a fantasy even if it may be. Otherwise UFOs are definitely true.<br /><br />But some elements can only be found, and repetitively at times, in the texts that emanate from Mary, Thomas or Philip and their followers or continuators, and other apocryphal or pseudepigraphal texts. The question here is why have these texts that can only represent long oral traditions, been excluded by the church at a certain time, even if it took three centuries to do so, but also by « critical historians » today, and this in spite of the « piling up » of testimonies in these documents ? As a historian we do not have to assess this or that assertion as conceivable or not, for instance the miracles, scientifically. We have to assess the picture these documents want the audience to have of Jesus.<br /><br />Ehrman is going to say that he wants to really build an objective and real knowledge of the material real man called Jesus. Right. But then he should have mentioned the meaning of Christ, the anointed one, and then moved to the word « chrism » that is only used in apocryphal writings, though Jesus is called the anointed one quite often everywhere. For instance in the Gospel of Bartholomew :<br /><br />« Jesus said unto him : `'Bartholomew, my Father did name me Christ, that I might come down upon earth and anoint every man that cometh unto me with the oil of life : and he did call me Jesus  that I might heal every sin of them that know not ... and give unto men (several corrupt words : the Latin has) the truth of God.'' » (IV:65)<br /><br />The text shows that the truth of God is latin and not the original language Greek, or the other derived language Slavonic, not to speak of the original oral language in which this Gospel was spread out of Palestine and its Semitic Aramaic or other dialects and languages. This ointment, this chrism is a real mystery about Jesus and his practices, this oil of life, corrected in a way into the truth of God. The question here is, accepting the anointing Jesus practiced undeniably with some ointment, the chrism, to know the nature of this chrism, this ointment.<br /><br />Many discussions are going on and around about this secret ointment the rabbis used in their secret meditation and preparation. Jesus here seems to say that he has the mission to reveal this secret to everyone and use it for everyone. That goes along with the Secret Gospel of Mark : why in the nude if not for any sexual contact ? To be anointed with this oil of life ? That is no magic (a concept that will develop quite later) but maybe and probably a simple medicine of these days, and anointing people with special oils was common practice and will remain common practice for many centuries, before being turned into witchcraft in the late Middle Ages. Those oils were composed of many elements and we know that some had bacteria-killing qualities, or leading to visions if not  hallucinations. This was a common practice among the Jews from the Exodus to the Kaballah :<br /><br />« The chrism. Yahweh spoke to Moses and said : `'Take the choices spices : ... liquid myrrh... fragrant cinnamon... scented cane... cassia... olive oil... compound into a holy chrism...'' » (Exodus, 30:22-25).<br /><br />What is this « scented cane » ? In Hebrew it is « kaneh-bosm » (note a plural due to the « -m » ending, hence leading to the understanding of it as the floral endings of some plant. Some even see in this word the designation of « cannabis ». In a word, if we use Ehrman's second principles with all the documents that have been rejected out of the canon, and he accepts this rejection, we come to some disquieting questions we probably cannot be answered.<br /><br />The Third Principle<br />The third principle is « Cutting Against the Grain ».<br /><br />Here Ehrman considers the elements in the canon that go against the grain of a certain picture the church of the time wanted to give of Jesus, according to what we think the church's intention was. But how do we know it since we have so few documents according to Ehrman. He considers there must be some pregnant value in these elements for them to have been retained. I like this argument but it is in many ways circular. We choose an element in documents that are extremely difficult to assess as authentic based on the intention of the church at the time that can only be rebuilt from documents that have been produced and retained in a context of deep divisions and conflicts within the Christian community, and hence that are very difficult to assess as authentically representing the will or desire of the church.<br /><br />These surviving documents that are in no way canonical but are instructions, orders, recommendations from the important bishops or thinkers of the church, are obviously political and ideological, produced to build and defend an institution, what's more a nascent institution. It is quite clear that those opposed to this orientation either did not have the means or the authority to produce similar documents, or they were declared heretics and their production was destroyed. Actually Ehrman gives a perfect example of what happened before and after the council of Nicea with the debate between Arius and Athanasius, both from Alexandria in the fourth century. Since Athanasius won in Nicea, Arius disappeared from the picture and we can think Athanasius is the cause of the burying of the gnostic books that will become the Nag Hammadi Library recovered from the desert only in 1945.<br /><br />But this third principle should lead Ehrman to at least include some of the elements found in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha because they obviously go against the grain, particularly the gnostic elements, or the elements we can find in the gnostic corpus of docuemnts, because we know the church fought very hard against these facts, these documents and even the people who were inspired by them.<br /><br />the Fourth Ptinciple<br />The fourth principle is « Context is (Almost) Everything ».<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />Conclusion<br />To conclude, without discussing all the elements brought forward in Ehrman's book, I will say that we cannot capture who Jesus was if we do not deal with this character or personage from an anthropological point of view and with an anthropological method enriched with a lot of linguistics. After all Jesus was first of all a voice, a preacher, someone who moved the world with his oral discourse, and first of all by attracting around him a set of people who will become his voice after his death. Was Jesus also a political calculator ? Maybe. But he never conquered political power, so the question is useless and vain. Were his disciples political people ? Definitely. Their perspective was to build a movement that could lead them to power, or rather lead their movement, their convictions to power and Constantine will give them full satisfaction.<br /><br />So where is Jesus in that ? He is the one who brought a discourse that could articulate the contradictions of the time into some kind of anew synthesis of the antagons. And here, though Ehrman negates it in a way and yet accepts it too, Constantine was crucial. Without Constantine that new synthesis would not have been possible or would have taken a lot more time to get into power, hence that new equilibrium which was indispensible because the Empire was confronted to the Germanic tribes who were not knocking at the door for entry but starting to knock the doors down. The Christian religion was the only easy way for Constantine to unify the Empire, after he had conquered power of course, under his rule and get it ready for the coming fights and battles.<br /><br /> Even in his most apocalyptical approach, Jesus or his followers, particularly John, was seeing beyond this apocalypse. Men and women were supposed to be ready for the coming of this Doomsday and he understood that things had to be done straight away and in  the society the way it was, though that meant changing it, changing the rules, no longer cleaning your hands, as if being clean in your  body was enough to be clean for God, but cleaning your heart because real cleanliness is in the heart and not in the body, and by heart Jesus always meant the spirit that is in any man and any woman and can receive God and his message. So there is no point discussing Jesus's marriage to Mary Magdalene, etc, because that was not the point for Jesus and his followers : the point was to move the world forward for it to be ready for doomsday, though I think we have quite enough elements in the canonical Gospels and texts and in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha to assert that Jesus did not have a desexualized vision of or ideal for the world, present and future. And we have to take the whole corpus of early Christian documents (over three centuries) in an athropological approach to understand anything and reconstruct the mystery (common meaning not Christian meaning) that is called Jesus.<br /><br />I think this book is essential if we want to get some perspective about Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code, but it is not enough and Dan Brown's book does not deserve researchers in relihgious history to analyze and criticize it. It is not a piece of research in that field. It is a novel and nothing else, not even science fiction. So read Ehrman's book and try to neglect the constant hammering it contains against Dan Brown's book. Read it for the research and method on historical questions it contains. You may even see better why Blake was Blake, why the radical dissenters of the 17th century were so divided, and you may understand that when a social contradiction is engrossed with a religious contradiction, the solution will have to come from within that religious contradiction, if we do not want to get into radical solutions that some other people in the 20th century also called final solutions.<br /><br />Bart D. Ehrman should have worked six more months on that book to get away from Dan Brown and up into a wider and more constructive approach. One thing is sure, Dan Brown, if that was his intention as exposed in the book by a couple of characters, has definitely stirred the boat of the tradition in religion and millions of people are probably somewhere wondering about some crucial religious questions, even if most of them know that a book is a virtual being that more or less loses all reality when we close the back cover down.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-01-15
US	50989966	REQEN2MI5QLJH	0861661397	251926864	Tribal Politics	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The animals of our political scene	Not too many Indians, except one beautiful specimen on the cover. But a lot of pigs and other animals, including grotesque human animals, fat, obese, lardy and looking like perfect slobs. It is Animal Farm re-revisited by the E.T. anthropologist of the future who will discover our strange customs and habits with the eyes of the 35th century, what's more with a venusian or saturnian education. We sure look strange through this magnifying glass. Riddell hesitates at nothing and never backs up, down or in any other direction. He defends his territory and it is that of tracing all the little - and big - shortcomings - or longcomings too - of our political and social life. If you like Blair, or Clinton or Major, please abstain : you could get angry or even have nightmares in the middle of your sleep. Even Diana and the Queen, or Prince Philip, are not spared. Is there a meaning in this book ? Yes, for sure. There is no democracy, hence no free state and free society, if artists cannot use their talent to debunk politicians and bulldoze through our flaws, and God only knows how many flaws we have in store somewhere in the front of our personalities or in the back of our [...] and perverse minds. I particularly liked the couple Blair-Clinton page 94, coming out of their bridal room. Brilliantly impertinent and unrespectful. Just what we need to be reassured about the health and future of our peace - that falls into pieces - and safety - that has little to do with any safe activity, in our dangerous lifestyle and way of life. Rush to this book if you have any sense of humour, particularly British humour. But be careful, if you are in America : you might be considered as at least schizophrenic. A recent case shows it is dangerous to sound, look or seem British in an American psychiatric context. What's more the art is brilliant, though slightly rococo and a lot baroque, edging onto some fantastique and horrifying if not gore style.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-01-14
US	50989966	R3RZHWW47WT5T8	1585090190	936625309	The Book of Enoch	Books	5	108	131	N	N	Enoch, father of Mathusaleh, the censored Book	This pseudepigraphon of the Old testament was rejected for what seems obscure reasons, like most of the time with apocrypha, and yet this book is probably essential. It shows that God's creation was far from being perfect, which we knew of course. But it also gives the episode in which some angels known as the Watchers because they were supposed to be watching the human race, got fascinated by the beautiful women on earth. But these angels were not pure spirits and they were sexually very well provided (« the great stars whose privy members were like those of horses » 88:3) and males. Hence they descended from their heights and took some women and procreated a new race of beings with them, the famous giants who destroyed the earth. And the book contains two versions of the tale, the first one with women procreating giants, and the second one with cows, this time procreating elephants, camels and asses. This is a perfect parable for those scientists and technicians who invent anything and menace the life of the planet and of humanity with the implementation of their inventions. This will bring about God's decision to send the deluge and wipe life out completely or nearly. To clean up the damage god causes even greater damage : the radical, though not quite final, solution. But this book is also essential because there is a complete vision of the other worlds, paradise and all the hells that were being prepared for the coming apocalypse and that were surrounding the human world. The descriptions are very vivid and the trip in these climes reminds us of Dante's Divine Comedy. And that is not all. The book contains a strong section about astronomy, summarizing all human knowledge at the time about the sun and the moon, not so much about the stars, except the twelve sun portals that will give the twelve zodiacal signs. It also contains a strong prediction in the shape of wisdom chapters and verses and in the shape of dream visions that the rich and the powerful will be destroyed, even if God has to stir some trouble down on earth among their victims or subjects to have them removed from power. Finally it also predicts there will be a final day of judgment when the Elect One will perform divine justice in the name of the God of the Spirits. This is very similar to the Book of Revelation. In other words it is an important source and model for that Book of Revelation. Finally it reveals very clearly that Noah is an albino, the fear his birth caused among his relatives, first of all his father, and how Enoch saved him from destruction, which was normal in those days for off-standard children, with the argument that he had a divine mission to fulfill and that he, Enoch, knew about it because it had been revealed to him in his visions and his communication with God. This book is thus both tremendously human by the desire to get a compensation for the oppression of the majority of the people by a few rich and powerful persons or the fear an albino baby can cause among human beings, and tremendously visionary in a way that announces Isaiah, Ezekiel and John but with an extreme sense of retribution, punishment and destruction in suffering for the rich, the powerful and the violent, essentially, plus the dishonest, the blasphemous, liars,  and sexual perverts, meaning here fornicators. This book should be reinstated in the Old Testament and it cannot be ignored, especially since it is one of the sources of inspiration of the English poet William Blake. It gives a vision of the Jewish and Christian religions that has a lot more power by its imagination, its humanity and its great descriptive and evocative style.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUestroyed, even if God has to stir some trouble down on earth among their victims or subjects to have them removed from power. Finally it also predicts there will be a final day of judgment when the Elect One will perform divine justice in the name of the God of the Spirits. This is very similar to the Book of Revelation. In other words it is an important source and model for that Book of Revelation. Finally it reveals very clearly that Noah is an albino, the fear his birth caused among his relatives, first of all his father, and how Enoch saved him from destruction, which was normal in those days for off-standard children, with the argument that he had a divine mission to fulfill and that he, Enoch, knew about it because it had been revealed to him in his visions and his communication with God. This book is thus both tremendously human by the desire to get a compensation for the oppression of the majority of the people by a few rich and powerful persons or the fear an albino baby can cause among human beings, and tremendously visionary in a way that announces Isaiah, Ezekiel and John but with an extreme sense of retribution, punishment and destruction in suffering for the rich, the powerful and the violent, essentially, plus the dishonest, the blasphemous, liars,  and sexual perverts, meaning here fornicators. This book should be reinstated in the Old Testament and it cannot be ignored, especially since it is one of the sources of inspiration of the English poet William Blake. It gives a vision of the Jewish and Christian religions that has a lot more power by its imagination, its humanity and its great descriptive and evocative style. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2005-01-03
US	50989966	R2S7W3BWTGQ89R	0199255628	162471227	The Traveller in the Evening: The Last Works of William Blake	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great and could have been even greater	William Blake (1757-1827) is best known for his Songs of Innocence and his Songs of Experience, but he is a lot more. Morton D. Paley concentrates in this book on the last ten years or so of Blake's life and he particularly scrutinizes what Blake's main production in these years was, i.e. his engravings, etchings, watercolours and paintings, most of them being illustrations of various books. He of course considers the poetical production of these years, but it is rather smaller when compared with the artistic production. He thus examines successively Blake's illustrations of Thornton's Virgil, Blake's engraving Yah and His Two Sons Satan and Adam, Blake's illustrations of Dante's Divine Comedy, Blake's illustrated books on biblical subjects (The Everlasting Gospel, The Ghost of Abel, The Book of Job, Genesis, The Book of Enoch) and finally Blake's annotations of Thornton's new translation and presentation of The Lord's Prayer .<br /><br />This is a great endeavour for many reasons. I will give some. It is very difficult to assess the engravings with the help of the texts they illustrate because Blake remains independent till the end and never hesitates to introduce a differenciation from or even a contradiction with the texts. It is very difficult to capture the deeper meaning of these engravings and it necessitates a lot of patience and erudition. The author is led to that naturally because in most of these engravings some text is including or injected into the work of art. The meaning in these cases can only come from the dialogue that Blake creates between text and picture. The author also understands very well that his approach has to be visual to follow Blake's inspiration, the meaning has to come from the very structure of the work of art and cannot be reduced to the text it includes or the text it illustrates. Just for these reasons, this book is a great treat to read slowly and enrich with the enormous culture that is alluded to constantly by the author. You definitely need to know Blake's poetry or to be able to check some of the poems, to know Blake's art and to be able to check some works along with your reading (both the poems and the illustrations are not reproduced in the volume: some quotations are given when necessary and a few engravings are reproduced in black and white). You also need to know your Bible, Old and New Testaments alike, plus all the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha available knowing that Blake was a Bible scholar, even if he would hate this word applied to him. He knew the Bible very well, in English of course, in Greek definitely, probably in Latin too and partially in Hebrew. In other words you need at least three versions of the Bible (King James's Authorized Version, a standard modern version and naturally a good edition of the Jerusalem Bible with a lot of notes)  plus many marginal books and gospels and texts that you can luckily and easily find on the Internet (best site available : the Wesleyan Nazarene University library). We feel in every page of this book that Morton D. Paley has that knowledge and always considers that the readers must have it.<br /><br />This is a book for research workers, definitely not for students.<br /><br />1. Blake and dual thinking<br /><br />The first element I would like to emphasize is Blake's refusal of any dual thinking. He considers that our common way of putting things in front of our eyes is wrong: we seem not to be able to think without dividing every little problem or issue into two opposing and antagonistic elements. This dual thinking is for Blake the most satanic inspiration we can find in our life. He refuses all science and philosophy, particularly what Paley calls the « classics », i.e. the Greek heritage and all that was derived from it on one hand, and the modern scientific vision, particularly that of Newton and Bacon. Had he been French he would have said Descartes and maybe Pascal. Blake cultivates a conception that is founded on intuition, on spiritual communion with nature, humanity and God, an experience that must be direct, without any intermediary, complete, without any compromission, absolute, without any fear or awe. For him that is art and for him art is the only human activity that can bring man face to face with his creator, with the real God he believes in. « Jesus & his Apostles & his Disciples were all Artists. » (p. 97) Paley's book is full of references concerning this approach of Jesus and religion. From this axiom Blake comes to the simple idea that arts and artists being more or less marginalized in society, if not persecuted, it is because power institutions have perverted Jesus's teaching by imposing onto this teaching the Greek heritage of philosophy and science and the Roman h&eacute;ritage of war and power. Blake sees three enemies to pure art and pure religion that can only come from the heart, and these three enemies are the values of the God of the World, i.e. Satan. First money and the greed it feeds in merchants and landowners. Second power that grows along with any state-institution, and the church is no better than any king, they take part in what Blake calls Caesar. Third violence that nourishes the need for Caesar to have an army to conquer, control and eventually impose his will and create an empire. « Their [Jesus's & his Apostles' & Disciples'] Works were destroyed by the Seven Angels of the Seven Chruches of Asia. » (p. 97) This is an allusion to the first part of the Book of Revelation in which John addresses his recommendations to the seven churches of Asia. Hence the church is part of Caesar and the Empire and it has perverted Jesus's teaching to justify the state, to consolidate its power and to cover up its crimes. The previous two quotations end up where we started, that is to say with science: « Antichrist Science. » (p. 97) Paley draws the conclusion that science is this Antichrist using a pure transitive reading from left to right. I think it is slightly more complex. Transitive reading is fine if it identifies the seven churches of Asia with that Antichrist. But if we do that we come to a brand new way of looking at science. The church, along with the state and the merchants have codified Jesus's preaching into a set of laws that make everything lawful, particularly with repression, mind-control and taxes. Blake will annotate Thornton's Lord's Prayer as follows: « Lawful Bread Bought with Lawful Money & a Lawful Heaven seen thro a Lawful Telescope by means of Lawful Window Light. The Holy Ghost & whatever cannot be Taxed is Unlawful & Witchcraft. Spirits are Lawful but not Ghosts especially Royal Gin is Lawful Spirit. No Smuggling real British Spirit & Truth. » (p. 290-291)  In other words religion has become a science, just like politics and war. In that perspective the science of Newton or Bacon is just part of the system and serves the same purpose: to make a profit, to control people, to rationalize (which includes the word ration) the world for the good of the God of the World, i.e. Satan. This makes me think of the description of Babylon in the Book of Revelation:<br /><br />« There will be mourning and weeping for her by the kings of the earth who have fornicated with her and lived with her in  luxury. They see the smoke as she burns, while they keep at a safe distance from fear of her agony. They will say:<br />`Mourn, mourn for this great city,<br />Babylon, so powerful a city,<br />doomed as you are within a single hour.'<br />« There will be weeping and distress over her among all the traders of the earth when there is nobody left to buy their cargoes of goods; their stocks of gold and silver, jewels and pearls, linen and purple and silks and scarlet; all the sandalwood, every piece in ivory or fine wood, in bronze or iron or marble; the cinnamon and spices, the myrrh and ointment and incense; wine, oil, flour and corn; their stocks of cattle, sheep, horses and chariots, their slaves, their human cargo. » (Revelation, 18:9-13)<br /><br />Here Paley is right we should go bacik to the religious dissenters and radicals of the 17th century to discover that it is not the rejection of science per se that is here at stake, but of its perversion by the Caesars and the Empire of the world, by Satan, into an usable artifact to make a profit and control the people.<br /><br />I insist again on the concept of lawfulness used by Blake to debunk this Babylon. We will come back to it in time. The fundamental Law in this perverting process is the Thora, the Law of Moses, the ten commandments. The people of Israel, or rather their masters, started perverting the divine creation when they started writing down hundreds of pages of laws about everything and anything else. These laws became the tools used by kings, priests and merchants alike to impose their Babylon.<br /><br />At this point I would like to say that the number three (the three evils : merchants, kings and priests, warriors) seems to be fundamentally evil for Blake, hence we must ask the question of a numerical symbolism. At the same time the idea of a beginning is essential and we must ask the question where is that beginning and what will the end be?<br /><br />2. Blake and numerical symbolism<br /><br />We are going to envisage the numerical symbolism in Blake from what Paley says and intimate some tentative ideas about it first.<br /><br />We will start with the analysis of the plate p. 159 entitled Beatrice Addressing Dante from the car. Paley sees a lot of things but does not capture the visual numerical symbolism this drawing contains. The antagonistic dualism we have spoken of is visible in the gryphon that pulls the car. It is composed of the head and wings (raised but not moving at all, like the wings of the animals in John's or Ezekiel's visions) of an eagle and the body of a lion and it is absolutely static. The two animals make us think of John and Mark and their gospels, though we wonder why only two when the four are associated in Isaiah's, Ezekiel's and John's visions (let's see that as a reduction of the perfect four two the dual two and that explains the total immobility of the gryphon), but this allusion is not the most signifying element. From this gryphon an arc of cloud starts and goes over its head where it parts into two branches one going over Beatrice standing in the car and the other descending towards the wheel where it seems to disolve. In front of this gryphon stands a dubitative Dante on the extreme right of the picture, dubitative we are going to see why. On the extreme left two women are standing immobile, one in green for hope, one in red for charity. These three characters are the vertical frames of the picture. But these two women are not alone: a third one, in white for faith, is dynamically swirling in front of the car showing with her left hand the pages of an open book that seems to be carried by the disolving cloud of the lower branch we have just seen and pointing with her right hand at the eagle-head of the gryphon (an allusion to John's Gospel and Book of Revelation). So there are three women but not unified in their stances and four characters in the foreground of the picture and yet not unified. They are not the subject of the picture. They are one of the first indicators we see that something is wrong. The car and Beatrice are the main subject even if seen behind this foreground of four people. The first element of the car, on which our eyes easily set is the wheel that seems to be turning and in this turning movement (looking like a whirlwind) we can see three human figures, two going counterclockwise and one going clockwise. Which way is the wheel turning? Backward like two characters seem to imply, or forward like one character seems to imply? And this turning wheel is in total contradiction with the absolutely still gryphon. Beatrice is standing on the car, not nude but her body clearly visible behind a transparent veil. She also wears a vast mantle and a crown on or slightly over her head. Three elements, where Dante had four in the text, the robe is missing clearly implying that Beatrice is nude and her nude body is supposed to be seen. The three colours of Dante are still there: white for the veil, red for the bottom of the mantle, green for the rest of the mantle, plus a fourth one gold for the crown (the veil was held by some green olive wreath in Dante). But whereas Dante's colours were all vertical, Blake's colours are horizontal in three layers red, green and gold from bottom to top in contrast and contradiction with the vertical white veil. The inversion of the first direction and the contradiction with the second are in sharp contrast with the text and the supposed lateral movement of the car: a vertical alignment against an horizontal movement with a clear emphasis on three for Blake. But Beatrice stands between a front set of three animals' heads and a fourth one behind. The four animals are probably the four evangelists: John, the eagle, at the top of the front group of three, then Mark, the lion, and finally Luke, the ox, with the fourth one, Matthew, the man, at the back (to the left of the picture). These are four animals because it is an allusion to the Book of Revelation. But we see that beatrice has split the four evangelists who are unified like brothers normally and find themselves divided in three and one here. This disunification reminds us of the four foreground characters.<br /><br />All these contradictions and manipulations of standard symbols on the basis of numbers show why Dante is dubitative: he cannot believe his own eyes. Beatrice is the disorder-monger of the tableau.<br /><br />But this leads us to the idea that four is probably a positive number, be it only because it is the number that represents Christ in his crucifixion and sacrifice.<br /><br />The book is full of such symbols.<br /><br />3. Blake and Job<br /><br />Let's take three pictures from the book of Job. The first one, plate 14, p. 249, entitled When the morning stars sang together, & all the Sons of God shouted for joy. The central picture is divided in three strata. On top four angels dancing their arms raised in the sky and crossing their arms one left one with one right one, building a design which was extremely common in romanesque art and that came from Ireland: this design was used to designate Christ in his second coming, hence omega. In the middle layer God is squatting on a vault of cloud, his arms in crucified position and superimposed onto another line of clouds, hence building a big X with four arms, a symbol of the crucifixion precisely. Under his right arm, on the left, God has a representation of Helios driving the cart of the sun drawn by one horse up into the sky. Under his left arm, on the right, Selene is bearing the moon drawn by two serpents. Hence we have the day and the night (we could say a lot about each element of these two pictures). Under the vault on which God is standing we have Job and his wife next to each other but not touching, the wife to the left and Job in the middle (an echo of the two characters of the sun vignette), and on the right the three wise men packed together shoulder to shoulder, the three wise men who failed in their attempt to make Job accept the Law of the state and religion of Israel, and this Law says that if Job has suffered some divine punishment it is because he is guilty of not respecting the Law, which brings Job's protest that he has always respected the Law. One character is missing, the young man who spoke last as if to introduce God, seen as Shaddai systematically in this Book, and this young man spoke with his heart and not his science, with his complete spirit and not the Law, and he prepared the discourse of Shaddai just after him that will make Job change his mind about his stand in front of God: he doesn't claim he is innocent anymore but he accepts God's decisions no matterwhat they are because it is God's free will to do what he wants with humanity and no one can discuss it. And this episode introduces a very important element since Job is forgiven, God means forgiveness, though Job was the victim of a silly bet between God and Satan, this last element showing that God does not follow a rule, a Law, but his inspiration of the moment. The three wise men are fools, and that illuminates the three evangelists separated from the fourth one by Beatrice: three you are fools, four are truthful. The truthfulness comes with the fourth one in a united group.<br /><br />And yet it is not enough. Around the picture, in the margins of the page we have a lot of elements. Three round or almond-shaped vignettes on each side with the six days of the creation altogether around the picture in vertical alignment from top to bottom, but in the sixth vignette, the third on the right, the one at the bottom there, the sixth day of creation, there is no man created by God. An afterthought maybe, or the realization that this creation was not exactly his best success. Three on the left, three on the right, that builds the two cups of Solomon's sign, of David's star: the cup of God pouring his light into the cup of man, quite fitting for the creation of the world. And yet it cannot work because the two groups of three are aligned and not in the shape of triangles, and vertical which does not make it easy to pour from one cup to the other. Six, the very divine number six, is thus perverted by Blake, but probably because it was perverted by God.<br /><br />Plate 19 is not reproduced in the book and yet it is interesting because in the margins it introduces a lot of women but not in any disorderly way. Right and left two women float at the bottom of the margin bearing fruit and flowers. Right and left float at the top of the margin two women scattering petals. They build the X we said was four and a sign of Jesus on his cross but in a rich context because it is the promise of salvation and redemption. Above each of the two upper inset corners two groups of two women appear in the palms, announcing the second coming of Christ, because four and four make eight, a standing omega, the end of the Apocalypse. Going down in both left and right margins two groups of three women are picking the same symbolism as the Genesis vignettes in plate 14, with the same perversion of Solomon's number and sign. At the bottom to the left a big bunch of roses and to the right a bunch bunch of lilies, traditional symbols of Mary Magdalena and of Mary the Virgin respectively. The future is in the hands of women. They accompanied Jesus to his end (both Maries), they announced his resurrection (Mary Magdalena), and here they announce his Second Coming. It is such symbolism that makes me say that Paley is wrong when he says: « Blake repeatedly denigrates the female principle. » But more about it later.<br /><br />Plate 20, still of the Book of Job, is very interesting. In the centre picture Job, at the end of his story is sitting inside a home and telling his three daughters his tale. He is exactly in the same position as God in plate 14, or nearly, but his two outstretched arms and his head point to three vignettes telling the whole episode. On the left the destruction of Job's servants by the Chaldeans, Satan hovering over the scene, in the middle God appears in a whirlwind, and on the right a ploughman is destroyed by Satan himself. This is a rewriting of the story and we know better: Job is a fool. What does it make God? But, quasi-symetrically at his feet the three daughters are sitting on the floor, one on the left, one in the middle and one on the right. The three daughters rebuild with the three vignettes, Job being the central node of it, a six branch star. Not Solomon's sign since the pouring cup is under and the receiving cup is over. Once again no pouring of God's light into man's cup. Job is a fool. But the six branch star is David's sign and this announces that all this foolery is going to bring Jesus, the descendant of David, and the three daughters are a preview or premonition of the three Maries at the foot of the cross. At this point three is maybe bad except when there is perfect unity, like the three Maries in their sorrow at the foot of the cross.<br /><br />We could go on and on showing how this fundamentally christian and romanesque numerical symbolism leads us to meanings that Paley only hinted at or vaguely evoked. It is this element that is essential. A last remark on this point: This numerical symbolism is not significant in itself but, like in romanesque art, in its spatial disposition, here in the picture, as it was in the Middle Ages in the church from one capital to the next and then to the next and to the next again, building or drawing a pilgrimage of salvation in the church itself for the faithful entering the main porch and moving towards the altar and the choir where their human cup would be able to receive the light of God poured from his cup into theirs. I could demonstrate such pilgrimages in some great romanesque churches, or some humbler romanesque churches in Issoire or Arlanc in Auvergne. And you could discover that many of the figures represented on these capitals are extremely similar to those engraved, etched or painted by Blake. Blake is deeply romanesque, a lot more romanesque than romantic.<br /><br />4. Blake and the beginning<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />5. Blake and the end<br /><br />Then what is the end?<br /><br />The final touch to that picture comes with Enoch, a set of sketches more than anything else. Another evidence that God did not do things properly, did not create a spiritual world. After the fall men procreated some beautiful women, and some of the angels, heavily male and oversexed, envy these women, come down on earth, capture them, procreate with them some giant race that destroys humanity, or nearly. These angels should have been pure Spirit, but God somehow failed here too. Then he will repair the damage by causing more damage with the flood and the man who will be entrusted with the salvaging Ark will be an albino, white as snow with red flashing eyes. Is that a good sign? Blake did not go far enough in that project to give more details.<br /><br />6. Blake and the Jews<br /><br />So, can we say like Paley that Blake was antisemitic when he said things against the Jews? Paley writes: « There can be little doubt that Blake wished no harm to the Jews themselves, although he was capable of giving expression to deplorable anti-semitic stereotypes. » (p. 200) It is clear that in our context some remarks by Blake are absolutely unacceptable, but that does not make him an antisemite. He would be here with us he could phrase the same ideas a different way to satisfy our post-Shoah consciousness and repentance. But it is out of place to study Blake in his context and analyze his phrases in our context. Blake was no more an antisemite than Shakespeare or Ben Jonson. Blake was a man with a vision and his vision was first of all contained in the Bible, that is to say in a completely Jewish context. For him Jesus was a Jew and he was a perfect Jew because he implemented and used the heart, the spirit and the brain God gave him to respond to concrete situations and reject all kinds of alienations and oppressions, what Blake, after John, and many others in the Old Testament, calls Babylon. For him there is both absolute continuation from Genesis to the Book of Revelation, and a serious rift in the fabric with Jesus who restructures the Jewish faith to make it go back to the visionary imagination, the artistic freedom of the great prophets and the great patriarchs of the Old Testament. For Blake if the project Jesus was carrying, in the name of the Holy Spirit of God, failed it is because Babylon subverted the project: but Babylon is not the Jews. It is Satan behind pulling the strings of the greedy merchants who donot even hesitate to sell human beings as slaves to make a profit, the caesars, kings and priests alike, who do not hesitate to enslave their peoples to make a profit called taxes, the generals and admirals who do not hesitate to enslave foreign free people or exterminate them if necessary, to put their hands on their riches and resources and make a profit. All that is called Empire by Blake or Babylon.<br /><br />Actually on this question, which is very serious indeed, a great amount of research is to be made to analyze the fine and tricky connections between all the elements at stake in Blake's works but also in the works of all the poets, writers and artists of his time to really evaluate if his position is antisemitic or of another dimension, and hence needs to be reworded in a way more palatable for our consciousness. Yes, when Blake says: « If Humility is Christianity; you O Jews are the true Christians. », we are justified in asserting that such a declaration in today's context would have to be declared antisemitic of a sort. But we should also think of a recent debate about a recent film in which many critics saw at the time an antisemite film and now are backing up on their previous declarations and only admit that this film could lead some to antisemitic interpretations. I am afraid Blake here is just in the same situation. We have to reassess this part of his works and analyze in great details and nuances the real meaning of his words for him and him only, and then eventually take the necessary precautions when bringing such poetry, prose or art to the public, so that there will be no anachronic assimilation on our part and no unacceptable interpretation on the public's part.<br /><br />To conclude this long retension, I have to say that this book was a marvellous experience and that every single page of it was worth the average five or six minutes it required to be read, documented and hopefully digested. We should read such books more often.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUthe book of Job. The first one, plate 14, p. 249, entitled When the morning stars sang together, & all the Sons of God shouted for joy. The central picture is divided in three strata. On top four angels dancing their arms raised in the sky and crossing their arms one left one with one right one, building a design which was extremely common in romanesque art and that came from Ireland: this design was used to designate Christ in his second coming, hence omega. In the middle layer God is squatting on a vault of cloud, his arms in crucified position and superimposed onto another line of clouds, hence building a big X with four arms, a symbol of the crucifixion precisely. Under his right arm, on the left, God has a representation of Helios driving the cart of the sun drawn by one horse up into the sky. Under his left arm, on the right, Selene is bearing the moon drawn by two serpents. Hence we have the day and the night (we could say a lot about each element of these two pictures). Under the vault on which God is standing we have Job and his wife next to each other but not touching, the wife to the left and Job in the middle (an echo of the two characters of the sun vignette), and on the right the three wise men packed together shoulder to shoulder, the three wise men who failed in their attempt to make Job accept the Law of the state and religion of Israel, and this Law says that if Job has suffered some divine punishment it is because he is guilty of not respecting the Law, which brings Job's protest that he has always respected the Law. One character is missing, the young man who spoke last as if to introduce God, seen as Shaddai systematically in this Book, and this young man spoke with his heart and not his science, with his complete spirit and not the Law, and he prepared the discourse of Shaddai just after him that will make Job change his mind about his stand in front of God: he doesn't claim he is innocent anymore but he accepts God's decisions no matter what they are because it is God's free will to do what he wants with humanity and no one can discuss it. And this episode introduces a very important element since Job is forgiven, God means forgiveness, though Job was the victim of a silly bet between God and Satan, this last element showing that God does not follow a rule, a Law, but his inspiration of the moment. The three wise men are fools, and that illuminates the three evangelists separated from the fourth one by Beatrice: three you are fools, four are truthful. The truthfulness comes with the fourth one in a united group.<br /><br />And yet it is not enough. Around the picture, in the margins of the page we have a lot of elements. Three round or almond-shaped vignettes on each side with the six days of the creation altogether around the picture in vertical alignment from top to bottom, but in the sixth vignette, the third on the right, the one at the bottom there, the sixth day of creation, there is no man created by God. An afterthought maybe, or the realization that this creation was not exactly his best success. Three on the left, three on the right, that builds the two cups of Solomon's sign, of David's star: the cup of God pouring his light into the cup of man, quite fitting for the creation of the world. And yet it cannot work because the two groups of three are aligned and not in the shape of triangles, and vertical which does not make it easy to pour from one cup to the other. Six, the very divine number six, is thus perverted by Blake, but probably because it was perverted by God.<br /><br />Plate 19 is not reproduced in the book and yet it is interesting because in the margins it introduces a lot of women but not in any disorderly way. Right and left two women float at the bottom of the margin bearing fruit and flowers. Right and left float at the top of the margin two women scattering petals. They build the X we said was four and a sign of Jesus on his cross but in a rich context because it is the promise of salvation and redemption. Above each of the two upper inset corners two groups of two women appear in the palms, announcing the second coming of Christ, because four and four make eight, a standing omega, the end of the Apocalypse. Going down in both left and right margins two groups of three women are picking the same symbolism as the Genesis vignettes in plate 14, with the same perversion of Solomon's number and sign. At the bottom to the left a big bunch of roses and to the right a bunch bunch of lilies, traditional symbols of Mary Magdalena and of Mary the Virgin respectively. The future is in the hands of women. They accompanied Jesus to his end (both Maries), they announced his resurrection (Mary Magdalena), and here they announce his Second Coming. It is such symbolism that makes me say that Paley is wrong when he says: « Blake repeatedly denigrates the female principle. » But more about it later.<br /><br />Plate 20, still of the Book of Job, is very interesting. In the centre picture Job, at the end of his story is sitting inside a home and telling his three daughters his tale. He is exactly in the same position as God in plate 14, or nearly, but his two outstretched arms and his head point to three vignettes telling the whole episode. On the left the destruction of Job's servants by the Chaldeans, Satan hovering over the scene, in the middle God appears in a whirlwind, and on the right a ploughman is destroyed by Satan himself. This is a rewriting of the story and we know better: Job is a fool. What does it make God? But, quasi-symetrically at his feet the three daughters are sitting on the floor, one on the left, one in the middle and one on the right. The three daughters rebuild with the three vignettes, Job being the central node of it, a six branch star. Not Solomon's sign since the pouring cup is under and the receiving cup is over. Once again no pouring of God's light into man's cup. Job is a fool. But the six branch star is David's sign andthis announces that all this foolery is going to bring Jesus, the descendant of David, and the three daughters are a preview or premonition of the three Maries at the foot of the cross. At this point three is maybe bad except when there is perfect unity, like the three Maries in their sorrow at the foot of the cross.<br /><br />We could go on and on showing how this fundamentally christian and romanesque numerical symbolism leads us to meanings that Paley only hinted at or vaguely evoked. It is this element that is essential. A last remark on this point: This numerical symbolism is not significant in itself but, like in romanesque art, in its spatial disposition, here in the picture, as it was in the Middle Ages in the church from one capital to the next and then to the next and to the next again, building or drawing a pilgrimage of salvation in the church itself for the faithful entering the main porch and moving towards the altar and the choir where their human cup would be able to receive the light of God poured from his cup into theirs. I could demonstrate such pilgrimages in some great romanesque churches, or some humbler romanesque churches in Issoire or Arlanc in Auvergne. And you could discover that many of the figures represented on these capitals are extremely similar to those engraved, etched or painted by Blake. Blake is deeply romanesque, a lot more romanesque than romantic.<br /><br />4. Blake and the beginning<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />5. Blake and the end<br /><br />Then what is the end?<br /><br />The final touch to that picture comes with Enoch, a set of sketches more than anything else. Another evidence that God did not do things properly, did not create a spiritual world. After the fall men procreated some beautiful women, and some of the angels, heavily male and oversexed, envy these women, come down on earth, capture them, procreate with them some giant race that destroys humanity, or nearly. These angels should have been pure Spirit, but Godsomehow failed here too. Then he will repair the damage by causing more damage with the flood and the man who will be entrusted with the salvaging Ark will be an albino, white as snow with red flashing eyes. Is that a good sign? Blake did not go far enough in that project to give more details.<br /><br />6. Blake and the Jews<br /><br />So, can we say like Paley that Blake was antisemitic when he said things against the Jews? Paley writes: « There can be little doubt that Blake wished no harm to the Jews themselves, although he was capable of giving expression to deplorable anti-semitic stereotypes. » (p. 200) It is clear that in our context some remarks by Blake are absolutely unacceptable, but that does not make him an antisemite. He would be here with us he could phrase the same ideas a different way to satisfy our post-Shoah consciousness and repentance. But it is out of place to study Blake in his context and analyze his phrases in our context. Blake was no more an antisemite than Shakespeare or Ben Jonson. Blake was a man with a vision and his vision was first of all contained in the Bible, that is to say in a completely Jewish context. For him Jesus was a Jew and he was a perfect Jew because he implemented and used the heart, the spirit and the brain God gave him to respond to concrete situations and reject all kinds of alienations and oppressions, what Blake, after John, and many others in the Old Testament, calls Babylon. For him there is both absolute continuation from Genesis to the Book of Revelation, and a serious rift in the fabric with Jesus who restructures the Jewish faith to make it go back to the visionary imagination, the artistic freedom of the great prophets and the great patriarchs of the Old Testament. For Blake if the project Jesus was carrying, in the name of the Holy Spirit of God, failed it is because Babylon subverted the project: but Babylon is not the Jews. It is Satan behind pulling the strings of the greedy merchants who do not even hesitate to sell human beings as slaves to make a profit, the caesars, kings and priests alike, who do not hesitate to enslave their peoples to make a profit called taxes, the generals and admirals who do not hesitate to enslave foreign free people or exterminate them if necessary, to put their hands on their riches and resources and make a profit. All that is called Empire by Blake or Babylon.<br /><br />Actually on this question, which is very serious indeed, a great amount of research is to be made to analyze the fine and tricky connections between all the elements at stake in Blake's works but also in the works of all the poets, writers and artists of his time to really evaluate if his position is antisemitic or of another dimension, and hence needs to be reworded in a way more palatable for our consciousness. Yes, when Blake says: « If Humility is Christianity; you O Jews are the true Christians. », we are justified in asserting that such a declaration in today's context would have to be declared antisemitic of a sort. But we should also think of a recent debate about a recent film in which many critics saw at the time an antisemite film and now are backing up on their previous declarations and only admit that this film could lead some to antisemitic interpretations. I am afraid Blake here is just in the same situation. We have to reassess this part of his works and analyze in great details and nuances the real meaning of his words for him and him only, and then eventually take the necessary precautions when bringing such poetry, prose or art to the public, so that there will be no anachronic assimilation on our part and no unacceptable interpretation on the public's part.<br /><br />To conclude this long retension, I have to say that this book was a marvellous experience and that every single page of it was worth the average five or six minutes it required to be read, documented and hopefully digested. We should read such books more often.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2005-01-02
US	50989966	REXARBTXFH449	1400031184	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Uncare leads to crime	Ruth Rendell writes detective stories that are anything but detective stories. This book is the perfect example of this transformation of the genre. We are not interested in the police investigation for a very simple reason : the book is not about it since we, the readers, know everything from the very first page. It shows how haphazard and accidental an investigation is. The main interest of this book is the deep study of the psychology of the characters, and first of all of the murderer. Ruth Rendell depicts a serial killer that cannot be profiled in the FBI way. She is just « mad », out of her mind, mentally impaired. She kills in a complete delusion because she lives in a complete delusion and killing is not killing : it is getting rid of haunting ghosts. Just for that reason the book is fascinating. But the book is also richer than any in the genre because of the deep study of several human types who reveal how our democratic and free societies work. It is, in a way, a severe denunciation of several categories of people who do not make our society better but make it definitely worse, particularly for those who do not have a simple, humdrum, gullible, submissive and obedient psyche and life. It debunks the press and the media and the way they become vultures when they want to make money with a scoop that they have to find, or when they want to make money by selling millions of copies regardless of the harm they may cause to their subject people, their victims. The book exposes the rich and powerful who think they can do anything they want because they can buy it, buy a wife to cover up their private life, buy silence or buy information, buy cars or houses or just some woman to take care of them, and the worst way of buying is not with money but with your good looks, if you are a man just as well as if you are a woman. It finally denunciates the attitude of a few in our society who are ready to do anything to get their hands on some comfort, money or anything they consider important. Social climbing is the worst think a society like ours can endure, and this exists because our society does not provide honest means to achieve something if you do not have the money, the power or the luck necessary to start with. Social services are at stake and they do not come out clean in this book because they do not solve problems, they only contain them. So the book is full of what the Americans would call « grotesque » people : too obese, too thin, too unbalanced, too rich, too afraid of public exposure for nothing but their free private life, etc. But Ruth Rendell seems to be an optimist. After all most of these grotesque characters find a normal and decent way out of their grotesqueness. Most of them, except a few, the victims of the system that makes some of us innocent victims of uncare, like the children in the book, or innocent victims of neglect, the neglect of professionals who should see, who do see and yet do nothing, like in that case the murderer who is known as deranged by a doctor, a policeman, many other people, including her employer, but no one for one reason or another tries to bring her the help she needs in her difficult situation that cannot be solved without this outside help : the irony of this situation is that this lack of care leads to two dead people, many others haunted and severely annoyed by police procedures that lead nowhere, and a lot of wasted energy, love, peace of mind and plain peace « in the valley » if I can say so. What costs or would cost more to society ? To repair the damage caused by this lack of care or the necessary work to prevent it ? Where is the limit between prying into other people's private business and preventing personal disorder or sickness, public disorder and even crime ?<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUy consider important. Social climbing is the worst think a society like ours can endure, and this exists because our society does not provide honest means to achieve something if you do not have the money, the power or the luck necessary to start with. Social services are at stake and they do not come out clean in this book because they do not solve problems, they only contain them. So the book is full of what the Americans would call « grotesque » people : too obese, too thin, too unbalanced, too rich, too afraid of public exposure for nothing but their free private life, etc. But Ruth Rendell seems to be an optimist. After all most of these grotesque characters find a normal and decent way out of their grotesqueness. Most of them, except a few, the victims of the system that makes some of us innocent victims of uncare, like the children in the book, or innocent victims of neglect, the neglect of professionals who should see, who do see and yet do nothing, like in that case the murderer who is known as deranged by a doctor, a policeman, many other people, including her employer, but no one for one reason or another tries to bring her the help she needs in her difficult situation that cannot be solved without this outside help : the irony of this situation is that this lack of care leads to two dead people, many others haunted and severely annoyed by police procedures that lead nowhere, and a lot of wasted energy, love, peace of mind and plain peace « in the valley » if I can say so. What costs or would cost more to society ? To repair the damage caused by this lack of care or the necessary work to prevent it ? Where is the limit between prying into other people's private business and preventing personal disorder or sickness, public disorder and even crime ?<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-12-26
US	50989966	R90J6XIQPRHKL	2243001012	511267756	Week-end (Miroir oblique) (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Young, Juicy, Naive and Perverse	Funny to find a book I wrote and published in 1976 and that was practically only sold by myself to people I knew can be found in 2004 on Amazon.com. How has it arrived there? I wonder. Who is selling it? I wonder too. This book of poetry was a deep dive into the mind of a teenager who was discovering both sex and politics, his body and his society. Enjoy it if you can read French of course.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-12-19
US	50989966	RU4C1T81G8IVC	0199260516	571239807	The English Radical Imagination: Culture, Religion, and Revolution, 1630-1660 (Oxford English Monographs)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The English Revolution as the melting pot of progress	This book is a revealing and thrilling monographs on the English Revolution. It scrutinizes the period (1630-1660) from a completely new point of view and opens a completely regenerated perspective. Before entering the book, it is necessary to express one regret : the numerous books studied in this monograph are listed with their initial publishing dates but not with present references. But this is a detail after all and we can rather easily find this information.<br /><br />Nicholas McDowell starts with the commonplace stereotype about this period of English history. This stereotype comes from Thomas Edwards who fought at the time against the multiplication of religious approaches during the revolution with one essential argument : the presbyterian church and the religious establishment are supported by literate people, whereas all the heretics are religious heterodox groups of illiterate people expressing their artisan radicalism (« illiterate mechanick persons, p.1 ; « cobblers, tinkers, pedlars, weavers, sow-gelders and chimney-sweepers », p.38). Then Christopher Hill, after the Second World War in England, endorsed this point of view to support his marxist approach that these various religious groups were the expression of the working class of the time (craftsmen, artisans and shopkeepers) if not even the populace, hence the root of a deep democratic desire in England (« the most vigorous instance of plebeian opposition to the puritan ethic », p.23). Nicholas McDowell picks this stereotype as a challenge and tries to prove it is completely misguided by ideological and social interest on the side of Thomas Edwards and by ideological if not even political interest on the side of Christopher Hill, though Nicholas McDowell does not enter any polemics with the latter.<br /><br />Nicholas McDowell studies these radicals in great details, particularly the Levellers, the Ranters, the Quakers and a few others along with these. His approach is systematic. He looks for those who were the inspirers of these groups, the main spokespeople of them and shows that they were practically all of them literate, university educated, hence learned scholars. Richard Overton and William Walwym for the Levellers (Chapter 3), Abiezer Coppe and Daniel Featley for the Ranters (Chapter 4), Samuel Fisher, William Penn and Robert Rich for the Quakers (Chapter 5), John Rogers for the Fifth Monarchists (Chapter 4 and 5). Milton will be used in various sections of the book, particularly in the Epiloque. Nicholas McDowell studies many more people along the way, particularly Hobbes, Locke, Erasmus, Rabelais, Montaigne and Spinoza, though in less details. These radicals are shown as having a good education, received in grammar schools and universities and as having held, for some of them, positions in these universities. They are highly literate in Latin, Greek, Hebrew (for some of them) and both classical literature and biblical studies. Thus the stereotype does not hold. This argument is nevertheless a little bit weak because it does not say anything about the followers of these leaders. We do not know what the members of the Levellers, Ranters and Quakers were, at least from this book. The book is also clear that the pamphlets and various books studied here were intended to address the learned scholars of the universities, hence they had to be in a language that was that of university deans and professors. What's more, this book can only study what has survived, hence only printed books or manuscripts. Their language may not be at all the language used by grass and root Levellers, Ranters and Quakers. But I think these objections are rather easy and superficial because of the other aspects and methodological axioms of the book.<br /><br />The first great innovation in the field is to look at what was before. He finds out that universities in the 1630s were overpopulated and that they produced a great number of learned scholars that could not find positions in society. Hence there was a high level of discontentment among those who were dropped along the way. One study is missing here : what kind of students came to the grammar schools and the universities in those years ? Were they all coming from the upper classes, the nobility and the richest merchants, or did some come from lower classes, or at least the middle class of small merchants and artisans ? We have one or two mentions of some poor students who were sizars at the universities : a sizar was a student who received an allowance toward college expenses and who originally acted as a servant to other students in return for this allowance. Richard Overton was one in Cambridge for instance. This phenomenon is not studied though it would probably reveal the improvement of social and economic conditions in England after Elizabeth and under the Stuarts. It would also reveal that, in spite of the absence of any planification, the English society had greater needs in scholars, many of them being priests in the Anglican church of the time. It would finally reveal that the lower middle class was making an effort to promote their children in society. This led to a problem : « Thomas Nashe warned of the dangers to the stability of Church and State posed by disaffected scholars » (p.10). Nicholas McDowell shows how the 1630s already contained some premices to the coming puritan revolution. In other words, this revolution, and what the author consistently calls the « regicide » did not come from nowhere.<br /><br />The second innovation is in fact a methodological revolution in itself. Nicholas McDowell applies methods that we generally find in anthropology to analyze the very texts of these revolutionaries. He tries to understand the value of the words, phrases and ideas in the social, political and religious context as well as in the general literary, rhetorical, philosophical and ideological context. This leads him to a complete reassessment of many assertions. Let us take a cluster of such assertions : the radicals were illiterate because they were against education, Latin and other scholarly elements of that type. The author studies the educational conditions : the imposed study of Latin through Lily's grammarbook that was the only one authorized in schools. This grammar book is built in such a way that it informs the students with a mental architecture that is seen and understood as the foundation of social, political and religious order. « Lily's grammar can be described as the foundation text of the intellectual culture of early modern England. » (p.100) Lily's grammar is coaching the students into obedience, religious assimilated orthodoxy and hierarchical respect. Violence and bodily punishments are widely used to correct the mistakes by beating and humiliating the students in front of their fellow students, by the way an all male environment since education is not for women. This grammar is systematically using examples that center the language on the master as a representation of the teacher, the King and the Church, eventually God. It is systematically seen and graphically shown as ternary meaning the Trinity. We then understand why some radicals will speak of « grammatical tyranny » (p.108) not against grammar per se, nor even Latin per se, but against the manipulation of grammar and Latin by imposing only one authorized approach (Lily's), by using violence to impose correct learning and by using this grammar book to manipulate the minds of the students. Then it is associated to the Book of Psalms that has to be memorized. And beyond this Book of Psalms, he studies the ABC book used to teach how to read to plain people. This ABC book only took religious elements, hence teaching how to read and at the same time imposing a catechism of the christian religion as seen from the religious, political and social establishment's point of view. This leads to another remark : about one eighth (half a million copies) ofthe population (four million people) possessed this ABC  Book, hence probably half of the population had access to it, showing that the population was a lot more literate (in the vernacular and religious orthodoxy) than we can think but a literacu that was acquired along with religious orthodox principles.<br /><br />This education in grammar schools and at universities is thus based on Latin for four or five years, then the Book of Psalms and the Bible (King James I's version of course) from the very start and all along, then Latin culture, Greek, some Hebrew in later years. This education inculcates obedience, a sense of the social hierarchy (at the top of which some will find themselves sooner or later, and the others will be its privileged servants, particularly in the church), the conception that the Bible is the word of God himself and hence is absolute truth and the conception that the church is the spiritual and ideological warden of the social order of the country. Nicholas McDowell demonstrates how the rejection of education is not the rejection of all education but of this education in all its elements seen as alienating. Most of the radicals studied in this book were for another type of education, with variations among them but one essential common point : religious toleration and freedom. It is then clear why Thomas Edwards, a Presbytarian, was against these sects and radical movements : they attacked the social system in its very architectural heart.<br /><br />But most of these radicals go a lot further. Since they are scholars and educated people, they use their own knowledge and education to attack the educational institution, the religious orthodoxy of the church (the presbyterian church after the civil war) and society as a whole. Nicholas McDowell shows how the language of these radicals, in its references and in its rhetoric, is a constant allusion to and perversion of the pedagogical language of the universities with numerous references to the culture that they have tried to conquer on their own : classical of course, but also continental (Rabelais, Montaigne, Spinoza) and Renaissance. They use an essential weapon : ridicule. They turn upside down the official language, which makes it look at least weird and its arguments irrational. This study is pushed to the finest details and is particularly enlightening, at times funny, for instance the addition of the « Lunatick mood » (p.104) by Coppe to the other Latin moods. These radical books are thus like knots in a network of affiliations and derivations. They are in that line inspired by Saint Paul and 1Corinthians 1:19 : « I shall destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing all the learning of the learned. » (Jerusalem Bible). Their main principle that the Bible is not to be accepted as the only source of divine light, that the Bible may be tainted by many successive acts of copy, translating, printing, etc, that divine truth has to be understood as the descending of the Spirit in everyone giving them inner Light, leads them to consider the wise and the learned and the powerful (the King, the priests, the scholars) as being wrong and fools, and to consider themselves as inspired by the Spirit, hence being the true wise and true learned people. They just transfer this religious approach into their own rhetoric and produce the style that is often considered as ranting (meaning chaotic), popular and plebeian (in spite of the heavy sprinkling of Latin, Greek and Hebrew, plus all the cultural quotations and allusions), in a word heretic because it questions the established order, even after the revolution and under the Republic.<br /><br />This method of culturally contextualizing the documents under scrutiny is extremely important because it is in agreement with many other approaches and it can open tremendous intellectual doors. We think of Umberto Eco, Claude Levi-Strauss, Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan, and many others.<br /><br />But I would like to insist on two elements.<br /><br />First a shortcoming. Why did not Nicholas McDowell use the rich corpus of such polemics he would have found in Ben Jonson for instance, but also Shakespeare, Marlowe and others ? The debate on the place and role of puritans, priests and preachers was commonly present in some plays (Bartholomew Fair for instance). The use of Latin, Greek and Hebrew, or other continental European languages was common place and used as a comic tool in many plays before 1630 in the English Renaissance (The Alchemist is a caricature in that line). In the same way he could have shown the effectiveness of this period in transforming the arts after the Restoration. Purcell and Haendel widely use the heritage of the English Renaissance, particularly Shakespeare and Marlowe, but also produce many oratorios or operas based on the Bible with an essential reference to Saul, Belshazzar, David and Solomon to show what a good king is, to show heavily that a general wins a battle when he has a good strategy, that this strategy comes from inside (the inner Light of the radicals) inspired by the Spirit and God, and that a good general thanks God after the battle because the victory is acknowledged as being the result of God's inspiration. That would have tremendously reinforced Nicholas McDowell's conclusion, with Milton, that this period produced a completely new humanism and conception of social, religious and political life that will be the starting point of the Enlightenment in Europe : « There was little need of Voltairean `philosophes' in the late seventeenth-century England - and perhaps no need of an `English Enlightenment' at all » (p.181) This conclusion uses Milton as a springbox for the future. Milton was able to incorporate the debates, and particularly those carried by the Quakers, into his Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, to open a gate towards a society in which every individual would be free and inspired by grace and their inner Light, guided by virtue into discipline that would enable them to integrate the polity of society without in any way restraining pure and perfect reason. A man would then be saved by no predestination, or arbitrary decision from God, or an ever promised and never coming Doosmday. This is the « spiritualist materialism » (p.182) of the Quaker Gerrard Winstanley. This is also the promise of Goethe's Faust II and Faust's salvation through the use of his scientific and technical knowledge to produce, with the work of the people, the improvement of everyone's lot. This is Milton's trinity of Inner-Light/discipline/polity.<br /><br />Then I would like to point out a tremendous enriching inspiration about history and change in any society that this book and method brings us. If it is the masses who make history, they have to have a dream as an objective, a dream that will give them the inner energy necessary for them to start moving mountains, and this dream will lead them to a future that has to be better than the present with more freedom for everyone, more responsibility for everyone in a more peaceful, tolerant and open society. This dream is the inner Light of the  religious radicals of the English Revolution, an inner Light that can only open men to the use of their human reason. This inner Light is also very close to the concept of Id&eacute;al du Moi or Phallus used by Jacques Lacan to explain what drives a person along the road of life. This could male us understand why some societies are changing and why some others look as if they were frozen. If there is no inner dream, there will be no drive towards any goal of any sort. This book could also be a tremendous inspiration to study old periods and arts in those periods. The method used here should be extended and systematized : that would enable us to better analyze and understand romanesque art for instance, that art that is considered by so many as opaque and beyond reasonable grasping. That could create a real perspective for Shalespeare, Ben Jonson and all other Renaissance and post-Renaissance authors in England, and also to Defoe, Purcell, Haendel, Blake and many others after the Restoration, including the continental influence this English culture, particularly the Elizabethan drama, had in France or Germany.<br /><br />« Although William Blake's incorporation of eighteenth-century developments in the rational and historical treatment of Scripture into an enthusiastic cosmology warns against the acceptance of a Whig narrative of inevitable progress towards enlightenment, the de-christianizing implication of Fisher's rational attack on the sanctified status of Scripture are encapsulated by Thomas Paine in the Age of Reason (1794-5) : `Take away from Genesis the belief that Moses was the author, on which only the strange belief that is the word of God has stood, and there remains nothing of Genesis, but an anonymous book of stories, fables and traditionary or invented absurdities and downright lies'. » (p.182)<br /><br />This conclusion from Paine is a clear sign of the death of God that is to come with Hegel's declaration about it. And this conclusion, in the light of Nicholas McDowell's book, points out that religion is a cultural construction and that faith is a personal, mental stand in front of the world and life, and thus has to be studied as such, and probably separated from the study of the church or churches that use this religion and this faith for its or their own reasons and objectives.<br /><br />This book and its methodology could also enable us to understand popular arts in our time, or other times, as having a lot more depth than we often think, even if that depth is unconscious or subconscious or subliminal for the wide audiences of today's cinema, popular best-selling literature and popular music, to take only three examples. This book is an introduction to the only balanced and just analysis of cultural facts in any society. They are autonomous, meaning that they work with their own logic. They are rational, meaning this logic is the product of a reasonable and sensible attitude of the authors and artists, and we can only understand them properly if we start from this very inner logic. They may be articulated onto society, some elements coming from it and some elements reacting onto it, but they stand apart on their own feet. If they are articulated onto society it's because some in society use them as tools to reach their own objectives. All approaches that decide culture is nothing but the result of social and political contradictions and some mirror reflection of social and political reality are wrong. Culture is the representation of the relation between man and the universe in the most general definitions of both terms, and this representation, this spiritual vision is absolutely indispensible for each man and all men to cope with their fate and with life. This is an essential debate that is clearly stated in this book, in one period of history, but it encompasses a lot more than just this historical period, and particularly it proves that ideology is a filter that prevents us from seing things properly and that manipulates our intellect. Christopher Hill is a perfect example of this shortcoming of ideology and it is no excuse for him that he endorsed the ideological vision of Thomas Edwards. As a marxist he should have known better and especially done better.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUculture that they have tried to conquer on their own : classical of course, but also continental (Rabelais, Montaigne, Spinoza) and Renaissance. They use an essential weapon : ridicule. They turn upside down the official language, which makes it look at least weird and its arguments irrational. This study is pushed to the finest details and is particularly enlightening, at times funny, for instance the addition of the « Lunatick mood » (p.104) by Coppe to the other Latin moods. These radical books are thus like knots in a network of affiliations and derivations. They are in that line inspired by Saint Paul and 1Corinthians 1:19 : « I shall destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing all the learning of the learned. » (Jerusalem Bible). Their main principle that the Bible is not to be accepted as the only source of divine light, that the Bible may be tainted by many successive acts of copy, translating, printing, etc, that divine truth has to be understood as the descending of the Spirit in everyone giving them inner Light, leads them to consider the wise and the learned and the powerful (the King, the priests, the scholars) as being wrong and fools, and to consider themselves as inspired by the Spirit, hence being the true wise and true learned people. They just transfer this religious approach into their own rhetoric and produce the style that is often considered as ranting (meaning chaotic), popular and plebeian (in spite of the heavy sprinkling of Latin, Greek and Hebrew, plus all the cultural quotations and allusions), in a word heretic because it questions the established order, even after the revolution and under the Republic.<br /><br />This method of culturally contextualizing the documents under scrutiny is extremely important because it is in agreement with many other approaches and it can open tremendous intellectual doors. We think of Umberto Eco, Claude Levi-Strauss, Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan, and many others.<br /><br />But I would like to insist on two elements.<br /><br />First a shortcoming. Why did not Nicholas McDowell use the rich corpus of such polemics he would have found in Ben Jonson for instance, but also Shakespeare, Marlowe and others ? The debate on the place and role of puritans, priests and preachers was commonly present in some plays (Bartholomew Fair for instance). The use of Latin, Greek and Hebrew, or other continental European languages was common place and used as a comic tool in many plays before 1630 in the English Renaissance (The Alchemist is a caricature in that line). In the same way he could have shown the effectiveness of this period in transforming the arts after the Restoration. Purcell and Haendel widely use the heritage of the English Renaissance, particularly Shakespeare and Marlowe, but also produce many oratorios or operas based on the Bible with an essential reference to Saul, Belshazzar, David and Solomon to show what a good king is, to show heavily that a general wins a battle when he has a good strategy, that this strategy comes from inside (the inner Light of the radicals) inspired by the Spirit and God, and that a good general thanks God after the battle because the victory is acknowledged as being the result of God's inspiration. That would have tremendously reinforced Nicholas McDowell's conclusion, with Milton, that this period produced a completely new humanism and conception of social, religious and political life that will be the starting point of the Enlightenment in Europe : « There was little need of Voltairean `philosophes' in the late seventeenth-century England - and perhaps no need of an `English Enlightenment' at all » (p.181) This conclusion uses Milton as a springbox for the future. Milton was able to incorporate the debates, and particularly those carried by the Quakers, into his Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, to open a gate towards a society in which every individual would be free and inspired by grace and their inner Light, guided by virtue into discipline that would enable them to integrate the polity of society without in any way restraining pure and perfect reason. A man would then be saved by no predestination, or arbitrary decision from God, or an ever promised and never coming Doosmday. This is the « spiritualist materialism » (p.182) of the Quaker Gerrard Winstanley. This is also the promise of Goethe's Faust II and Faust's salvation through the use of his scientific and technical knowledge to produce, with the work of the people, the improvement of everyone's lot. This is Milton's trinity of Inner-Light/discipline/polity.<br /><br />Then I would like to point out a tremendous enriching inspiration about history and change in any society that this book and method brings us. If it is the masses who make history, they have to have a dream as an objective, a dream that will give them the inner energy necessary for them to start moving mountains, and this dream will lead them to a future that has to be better than the present with more freedom for everyone, more responsibility for everyone in a more peaceful, tolerant and open society. This dream is the inner Light of the  religious radicals of the English Revolution, an inner Light that can only open men to the use of their human reason. This inner Light is also very close to the concept of Idéal du Moi or Phallus used by Jacques Lacan to explain what drives a person along the road of life. This could male us understand why some societies are changing and why some others look as if they were frozen. If there is no inner dream, there will be no drive towards any goal of any sort. This book could also be a tremendous inspiration to study old periods and arts in those periods. The method used here should be extended and systematized : that would enable us to better analyze and understand romanesque art for instance, that art that is considered by so many as opaque and beyond reasonable grasping. That could create a real perspective for Shalespeare, Ben Jonson and all other Renaissance and post-Renaissance authors in England, and also to Defoe, Purcell, Haendel, Blake and many others after the Restoration, including the continental influence this English culture, particularly the Elizabethan drama, had in France or Germany.<br /><br />« Although William Blake's incorporation of eighteenth-century developments in the rational and historical treatment of Scripture into an enthusiastic cosmology warns against the acceptance of a Whig narrative of inevitable progress towards enlightenment, the de-christianizing implication of Fisher's rational attack on the sanctified status of Scripture are encapsulated by Thomas Paine in the Age of Reason (1794-5) : `Take away from Genesis the belief that Moses was the author, on which only the strange belief that is the word of God has stood, and there remains nothing of Genesis, but an anonymous book of stories, fables and traditionary or invented absurdities and downright lies'. » (p.182)<br /><br />This conclusion from Paine is a clear sign of the death of God that is to come with Hegel's declaration about it. And this conclusion, in the light of Nicholas McDowell's book, points out that religion is a cultural construction and that faith is a personal, mental stand in front of the world and life, and thus has to be studied as such, and probably separated from the study of the church or churches that use this religion and this faith for its or their own reasons and objectives.<br /><br />This book and its methodology could also enable us to understand popular arts in our time, or other times, as having a lot more depth than we often think, even if that depth is unconscious or subconscious or subliminal for the wide audiences of today's cinema, popular best-selling literature and popular music, to take only three examples. This book is an introduction to the only balanced and just analysis of cultural facts in any society. They are autonomous, meaning that they work with their own logic. They are rational, meaning this logic is the product of a reasonable and sensible attitude of the authors and artists, and we can only understand them properly if we start from this very inner logic. They may be articulated onto society, some elements coming from it and some elements reacting onto it, but they stand apart on their own feet. If they are articulated onto society it's because some in society use them as tools to reach their own objectives. All approaches that decide culture is nothing but the result of social and political contradictions and some mirror reflection of social and political reality are wrong. Culture is the representation of the relation between man and the universe in the most general definitions of both terms, and this representation, this spiritual vision is absolutely indispensible for each man and all men to cope with their fate and with life. This is an essential debate that is clearly stated in this book, in one period of history, but it encompasses a lot more than just this historical period, and particularly it proves that ideology is a filter that prevents us from seing things properly and that manipulates our intellect. Christopher Hill is a perfect example of this shortcoming of ideology and it is no excuse for him that he endorsed the ideological vision of Thomas Edwards. As a marxist he should have known better and especially done better.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-12-11
US	50989966	R1BSK6BUNA05G2	0142004596	111515923	The Secret Voyage of Sir Francis Drake: 1577-1580	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Filling in the dark gaps of a voyage kept secret	A very interesting book that reads like an adventure tale but is packed with clever insight and useful indications, assumptions, deductions and data. It retraces the whole maritime career of Sir Francis Drake, centering on his \\"secret voyage\\" that took him from England to the Strait of Magellan, then to the Pacific Ocean, up the coast of Chile and Peru, as far as Mexico, then up the coast of North America, as far as the southern limit of Alaska, and back along the present coast of Canada, Washington and Oregon, and finally across the Pacific Ocean, around the Cape of Good Hope and back to England.<br /><br />The book describes this trip in great detail and discusses the reconnaissance of the coast of Canada, Washington and Oregon thoroughly, from the famous Strait of Anian in the north to the Bay of Small Ships or Bay of Fires (Portus Nova Albionis for Drake or Whale Cove for us) in the south, a territory he called Nova Albion and of which he took possession in the name of Elizabeth I.<br /><br />The book is very rich in details about this trip and Drake's discoveries. Sir Francis Drake was the first to state that south of the Strait of Magellan lay a set of islands and not an extension of the antarctic continent. He was the first to explore and map the various islands, particularly Vancouver Island on the west coast of Canada and north-west coast of the US. He also determined the longitude of this west coast and the width of the North American continent, reducing it drastically and approaching the real size. He did his measurements through the observation of the moon in what he calls the \\"Point of Position\\" whose name today is Nehalem Bay, where the various stones used for these calculations were found rather recently.<br /><br />The author's method is to bring together all the information he can gather and to compare and discuss all the sources to get some believable deductions from them; then, he confronts this knowledge to the reality of the various sites along the coast and is thus able to come to some geographical conclusions that are realistic, hence acceptable.<br /><br />But the book is a lot more interesting than that. First the author analyzes the policy of Queen Elizabeth I in real perspective. He considers what preceded her and the policy she developed. He shows how her maritime and colonial policy was entirely under the influence of the menace that Philip II of Spain cultivated around England with the war against the Dutch rebellious protestants, the capture of the Portuguese Crown, the building of an enormous fleet and army with the clear intention of invading England and imposing Mary Stuart on the throne. The author shows how Elizabeth tried not to provoke the King of Spain and yet how she helped the protestants in the Netherlands. He shows how she even tried to get into an alliance, even a marriage, with the French royal family, to counterbalance Philip. But she essentially tried to keep under control the maritime and colonial ambition of Sir Francis Drake and other navigators to pacify the King of Spain, at least to prevent him from feeling provoked. Yet she used the skill and power of English navigators to seize a lot of riches, gold and silver, spices and other goods, from Spanish ships and colonies, to pay for her expenses--which makes an essential difference with Spain. She did not cover all the expenses to enhance England's defenses and prepare against the attack of the Spanish Armada. She looked for a working alliance with London merchants who provided her with ships, sailors and equipment. She resorted to piracy--Sir Francis Drake being one of the most important captains to work along that line--when she wanted to get some quick load of gold or silver, or when she wanted to slow down the building and preparation of the Armada, even, when necessary, by attacking Spanish or Portuguese harbours. But this constant menace from Spain prevented her from realizing, maybe not understanding but definitely starting, the vast conquest of American territories that would come later. That is why Drake's voyage and discoveries are very badly known: because she prevented the publishing of Drake's notes and maps, to keep some issues and locations secret. In other words, Elizabeth appears as a very cautious--even if very courageous too--sovereign who could probably not achieve, because of this, what was within grasp. At times we could even think the Queen was unstable in her decisions and irresolute in her goals. Sir Francis Drake's discoveries were going to lay unknown and unused for at least two centuries as a result of that.<br /><br />Secondly, and it is important to emphasize this element, from the very start, her initiatives in the field of maritime and colonial conquest were joint ventures (\\"joint-stock compan[ies]\\" [226]) between the crown, the navigators and the merchants. The risks were shared, the profits too. It never was a national or state initiative. The merchants of London and the sailors and captains of Plymouth were always associated and they paid for a good share of the cost in exchange for privileges in the conquered territories and the ensuing commerce. The Queen got part of the profit, but only in proportion to the part of the cost she had paid. She was in no way different from the other investors. This will in great part explain the type of colonial ventures England would launch into later: the colonies would not be the property of the Crown but of commercial companies that would pay taxes to the Crown after somehow buying special permission or license to take possession of an area and start exploiting it. This approach of the colonization of America produced, at the same time, the big private plantations in the southern colonies and the desire of the plantation owners to remain independent and free from Crown control. They had paid for this freedom. In other words we can understand further events like the War of Independence and even the Civil War with reference to this colonizing method.<br /><br />Thirdly, Sir Francis Drake was a gentleman in his political and human even humane behaviour in his voyages. He always treated his opponents with fairness and elegance, never resorting to violence when it was not necessary, never destroying ships or cities or killing people when it was not indispensable. He treated his enemies and prisoners with grace and good will. But he also showed a great sense of compassion and patience with the natives he found and met everywhere. He would rather stay away from those who were hostile and he befriended those who were welcoming. This was dictated to him by his understanding of the longer and greater historical interest of England, viz. to make friends among these natives in order to facilitate the opening of colonies and the establishing of commercial relations with them later. He was able to consider such a long historical perspective. He never doubted these territories would be English sooner or later but he never envisaged getting rid of the natives. He even seems to have at times envisaged some commercial alliance with those who would be politically organized and strong. He seemed to understand that the people living in these territories were an asset and not a disadvantage. This position is in fact the long-running result of a \\"feudal\\" vision that makes people define a property not only from the value of the earth, woodland, water ways, game, all natural resources, but also from the very people living on this earth, hence working, cultivating or exploiting it. It is this consideration that enabled slavery to be replaced by feudalism and serfdom. It is also this dimension, which sees the value of man in his work, in his activities and production, that will survive and become the ferment of modern humanism, economics and philosophy. Never, I think, is Sir Francis Drake shown as considering these natives as nothing else but cattle or game. Much evidence exists showing how Drake gave presents to the natives, not only useless \\"decorations\\" but also useful implements. We can even think that in some cases he provided some of these natives, when they were not hostile of course, with tools, even tools he produced on the spot, to enable them to improve their work and life.<br /><br />And yet there is a fourth remark to be made. When contact with those natives was established he never forgot that they were, let us say, primitive and had strange beliefs and practices. He never forgot that one of England's aims would be to spread the Christian faith, the true one, the protestant religion, the religion of \\"the God we did serve and whom they ought to worship\\" [318]. This will be the source of long lasting problems later on when the puritanical faith arrives with its desire to survive in a hostile world and convert this world to the true God of theirs; and when this blend of survival instinct and conquering imperialism gets associated with the enterprising spirit of merchants or plantation owners, it will lead to extremes that still have consequences in our modern history. Sir Francis Drake did not seem to be keen on engaging in any slave trade; he even seemed to be willing to associate with ex-slave escapees here and there or even help slaves to escape, taking some under his protection on his ships (even a black woman who seems to have been his mistress; yet he abandonned her on some island when she got pregnant, showing both that he had compassion for the mother and the child who would have been obliged to live and survive in drastic conditions on the ship from the Pacific Ocean to England, and that he probably thought of what would be said and done when he returned to England). But later on the logic of the plantations and the greed of the free entrepreneurs would lead to the development of slavery as an economic system, just as the desire to survive and conquer that came from the puritan protestant faith would lead to pushing away or even destroying all obstacles. Sir Francis Drake did not seem to carry in his mind and behaviour these extremes and he gave many signs of a gentlemanly and humane approach, though we don't know what he would have done if confronted to hostile native populations. He generally avoided them as much as he could, but his aim was not to stay and open a colony; it was only to discover and evaluate new territories. He was not a conqueror but a maritime trailblazer.<br /><br />The last remark I will make concerns the author of the book himself when he says, \\"Although each major group was linguistically distinct from the others, their social organization, technology, and methods were very similar\\" [282], speaking of the natives Sir Francis Drake met on the coast behind Vancouver Island. It might very well have been a remark from the Europeans in Drake's ship. But this remark, endorsed by the author, is surprising: what is this linguistic distance between the various tribes? Is it the distance that exists between various dialects of a same language, between various languages of a same linguistic family, or between languages from different linguistic families? We would like to know more about it. But this has nothing to do with the rest. The difficult, maybe even extreme, surviving conditions in this territory at the time, the precarious lives these Indians were forced to live would necessarily have a great homogenizing effect on \\"social organization, technology and methods.\\" What is more, the times when these various Indian tribes arrived might have been different. This would have enabled the first ones to establish some realistic living organization that would be copied later on by tribes arriving later. Housing depended on the weather conditions and materials available, and these two elements tend to impose some general conception or design. It is the same thing with technology--the invention of tools made with whatever materials were available, in order to hunt, fish or cultivate the earth inone particular place under some particular conditions. The languages spoken by these tribes, even if they were from different linguistic families, would be of little influence on these material elements. What is more, in a deeper back-looking perspective, these tribes were all coming from the same original migrating route. Migration and surviving in new hostile conditions would be a strong force to impose some concrete solutions perfectly adapted to the terrain, be it through sharing knowledge and experience or through copying those that had come first or had been faster in adapting to the area. In other words this remark may seem to be anachronic and totally unfounded; however, and this is remarkable, this anachronic remark is probably the only one in the book--at least the only one I found, and that made me react intellectually. As a whole, the book seems to be very respectful of the time distance between today and Sir Francis Drake's living period.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUresents to the natives, not only useless \\"decorations\\" but also useful implements. We can even think that in some cases he provided some of these natives, when they were not hostile of course, with tools, even tools he produced on the spot, to enable them to improve their work and life.<br /><br />And yet there is a fourth remark to be made. When contact with those natives was established he never forgot that they were, let us say, primitive and had strange beliefs and practices. He never forgot that one of England's aims would be to spread the Christian faith, the true one, the protestant religion, the religion of \\"the God we did serve and whom they ought to worship\\" [318]. This will be the source of long lasting problems later on when the puritanical faith arrives with its desire to survive in a hostile world and convert this world to the true God of theirs; and when this blend of survival instinct and conquering imperialism gets associated with the enterprising spirit of merchants or plantation owners, it will lead to extremes that still have consequences in our modern history. Sir Francis Drake did not seem to be keen on engaging in any slave trade; he even seemed to be willing to associate with ex-slave escapees here and there or even help slaves to escape, taking some under his protection on his ships (even a black woman who seems to have been his mistress; yet he abandonned her on some island when she got pregnant, showing both that he had compassion for the mother and the child who would have been obliged to live and survive in drastic conditions on the ship from the Pacific Ocean to England, and that he probably thought of what would be said and done when he returned to England). But later on the logic of the plantations and the greed of the free entrepreneurs would lead to the development of slavery as an economic system, just as the desire to survive and conquer that came from the puritan protestant faith would lead to pushing away or even destroying allobstacles. Sir Francis Drake did not seem to carry in his mind and behaviour these extremes and he gave many signs of a gentlemanly and humane approach, though we don't know what he would have done if confronted to hostile native populations. He generally avoided them as much as he could, but his aim was not to stay and open a colony; it was only to discover and evaluate new territories. He was not a conqueror but a maritime trailblazer.<br /><br />The last remark I will make concerns the author of the book himself when he says, \\"Although each major group was linguistically distinct from the others, their social organization, technology, and methods were very similar\\" [282], speaking of the natives Sir Francis Drake met on the coast behind Vancouver Island. It might very well have been a remark from the Europeans in Drake's ship. But this remark, endorsed by the author, is surprising: what is this linguistic distance between the various tribes? Is it the distance that exists between various dialects of a same language, between various languages of a same linguistic family, or between languages from different linguistic families? We would like to know more about it. But this has nothing to do with the rest. The difficult, maybe even extreme, surviving conditions in this territory at the time, the precarious lives these Indians were forced to live would necessarily have a great homogenizing effect on \\"social organization, technology and methods.\\" What is more, the times when these various Indian tribes arrived might have been different. This would have enabled the first ones to establish some realistic living organization that would be copied later on by tribes arriving later. Housing depended on the weather conditions and materials available, and these two elements tend to impose some general conception or design. It is the same thing with technology--the invention of tools made with whatever materials were available, in order to hunt, fish or cultivate the earth inone particular place under some particular conditions. The languages spoken by these tribes, even if they were from different linguistic families, would be of little influence on these material elements. What is more, in a deeper back-looking perspective, these tribes were all coming from the same original migrating route. Migration and surviving in new hostile conditions would be a strong force to impose some concrete solutions perfectly adapted to the terrain, be it through sharing knowledge and experience or through copying those that had come first or had been faster in adapting to the area. In other words this remark may seem to be anachronic and totally unfounded; however, and this is remarkable, this anachronic remark is probably the only one in the book--at least the only one I found, and that made me react intellectually. As a whole, the book seems to be very respectful of the time distance between today and Sir Francis Drake's living period.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-12-05
US	50989966	R2OZRCVMM0S693	0300002505	163964933	Ben Jonson: Bartholomew Fair (The Yale Ben Jonson.)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent farce but rather loose in the seams	Ben Jonson creates in this play a complex atmosphere of constant trespassing of social everyday norms to produce an action- and wit-packed experience in which we could easily drown. All possible means are used : trespassing normal life with funfair folly ; trespassing normal social conditions with cutpurses, ballad singers, funfair-merchants, one puritan, one crazy person, a puppet show, etc. But he also embeds in this action some more pregnant issues. Some weddings, for example, that are supposed to be founded on love and not the buying of a license. The puritan who is a gross hypocrite who always finds the right religious words to condemn the sins of other people and to cover his own gluttony. Some women who want some excitement and try to play the easy ladies they dream of being but do not dare to be except behind a mask. A justice who wants to discover reality and true deep crime by using various disguises. The puppet play that reveals two things : first the violent domination of women by men and the subsequent negation of love ; second the vanity and ridicule of the puritan who wants to prevent the show that he calls immoral and profane and expell the puppets that he considers as idols. The puritan is easily negociated into sounding silly, illogical and vain. The justice sees crimes that are not crimes and does not see other crimes that are real crimes. Then he tries to accuse and convict innocent people. He is ridiculed and silenced by his wife taking off her easy lady's mask end revealing herself in that game to his utmost astonishment. The weddings are the result of a certain amount of freedom on the side of women. But the whole play is loose in its plot and lacks the dynamism of a closely-knit action. The language is very popular at times, if not even gross, with many dialects and a lot of wit, often rather easy and farcesque, but it lacks the density that would make it poetical. The attempt to rewrite the classical theme of the puppet play in modern circumstances in London shows the ambiguous change of taste taking place in England at the time but lacks density and fullness. The play could be a good farce, a good entertainment, but it never reaches the strength of a dramatic comedy. It is a disorderly bawdy funfair of many sparkles but no real light or fireworks.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUstances in London shows the ambiguous change of taste taking place in England at the time but lacks density and fullness. The play could be a good farce, a good entertainment, but it never reaches the strength of a dramatic comedy. It is a disorderly bawdy funfair of many sparkles but no real light or fireworks. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2004-11-23
US	50989966	R3K3Y5U72KWYO8	0300093047	278674305	Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Brilliant and uet it could have been blindingly bright	An extremely important book that answers marvellously our prejudices against the Middle Ages. It explores in great details their literature and philosophy to show how people understood beauty then. He sees three phases. First the aesthetics of proportion in direct connection  with the greek mathematical heritage and the biblical teachings about the wisdom of the creation by God who projected his own balanced vision and essence in every single creature. Second the asthetics of light which reveals a more sensorial and even sensual approach to beauty in the fact that light and colors are beautiful at first contact and felt as such without any reflection.<br /><br />Finally the aesthetics of the organism that sees beauty in the fact that a complex composition is the creation of perfect balance among all the elements that are themselves balanced in the same way at a lower level. The second great approach is that of allegorical and symbolical beauty. For philosophers and theologians beauty was to be found in the meaning of things and meaning was to be found in the allegorical and symbolical value of every element considered because for them nothing existed that did not represent the higher level of divine nature, divine perfection. Even a representation  of the devil can be beautiful if it shows perfectly the ugliness of the beast in him.<br /><br />Yet Thomas Aquinas reveals his deeper sense of beauty in the fact that he provides this concept with a certain amount of autonomy. This autonomy had been in the air for many centuries but he is the first theologian to accept it as an important element in his evaluation of beauty. We find the same dilemma with art. At first art is nothing but what is produced by the manual work of people. But through poetry on one hand, and groups or corporations of artists on the other, the aesthetic value of artistic work is captured at least partly. Yet the book has aged a little bit over the last forty years or so. It does not consider enough the practical and material level of things.<br /><br />The existence of poetical tournaments in important pilgrimage cities like Le Puy in France, the constant use of music and singing (and the specialization of some monks in that field), the training of architects and sculptors in some abbeys to build the churches of their abbeys or their priories. It also does not see that some practices, like poetry, is in perfect continuation of what it was in the celtic, nordic and germanic traditions : the poet was on his way to becoming a druid, or singing epics was part of the know-how of a good warrior, or a celtic god was nothing but a good craftsman in one trade and a good poet and singer, etc. The global evaluation then is slightly defective.<br /><br />This leads him to concentrating on gothic cathedrals and neglecting the romanesque period that built thousands of little marvellous gems in villages with sculptures, paintings, etc. The romanesque period is thus undervalued and the gothic re-orientation is over-valued. The pesrpective is then defective. Finally he takes the present conception of art and beauty too much into account to assess the conceptions of the people in those days. Even when dealing with art history we must not, never, look back at things to assess them but always compare what follows to what has come before.<br /><br />In this case he should have compared medieval art - exclusively - with roman art et celtic-nordic-germanic art without forgetting that the chirstianization of the Roman Empire and the Germanic invaders also brought a complete shift from what was done for the free elite of a fundamentally slave-society to something that was supposed to be done for everyone within the church, the liturgy, but also mass events like pilgrimages, fairs and carnavals, or the famous Masses of Fools or Danses Macabres.<br /><br />It was, in our world, the first time ever the whole society was associated to cultural and artistic activities that were integrated in general social life not as an entertainment or a decoration but as something meaningful, even if we can consider the necessity for that meaning to be religious or articulated on a religious dimension as being a limitation. And these elements were quasi-permanent since situated in all the churches and taking place at all religious occasions, as well as non-religious occasions. We will then note that Troubadors were a regression when they were playing and singing only for the noble elite, though from Eco's point of view they were progress since they introduced a new conception that was closer to our modern conception of poetry.<br /><br />From the slave-owning elite, to mass christian pedagogy, and then to the new noble feudal castle-enclosed elite. From refined feelings going along with the barbarity of circus games, slavery and gladiators, to the massive culture of the Peace of God and God's arts and beauty going along with the barbarity of some warmongering local or not so local barons and other nobles, and then to the refined troubador music and poetry for the castle-protected nobles going along with the continuation of the religious oriented arts for the people abandoned by the poets and the musicians. Maybe the Middle Ages were looking for a uniformized society too much, but it is a selective elite practice that came out of it for the superior social class of the nobility.<br /><br />The Middle Ages is a period that tries to manage its contradictions in a balanced way hence shifting from one elitist contradiction to another elitist contradiction. Umberto Eco misses this last point.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUed in general social life not as an entertainment or a decoration but as something meaningful, even if we can consider the necessity for that meaning to be religious or articulated on a religious dimension as being a limitation. And these elements were quasi-permanent since situated in all the churches and taking place at all religious occasions, as well as non-religious occasions. We will then note that Troubadors were a regression when they were playing and singing only for the noble elite, though from Eco's point of view they were progress since they introduced a new conception that was closer to our modern conception of poetry.<br /><br />From the slave-owning elite, to mass christian pedagogy, and then to the new noble feudal castle-enclosed elite. From refined feelings going along with the barbarity of circus games, slavery and gladiators, to the massive culture of the Peace of God and God's arts and beauty going along with the barbarity of some warmongering local or not so local barons and other nobles, and then to the refined troubador music and poetry for the castle-protected nobles going along with the continuation of the religious oriented arts for the people abandoned by the poets and the musicians. Maybe the Middle Ages were looking for a uniformized society too much, but it is a selective elite practice that came out of it for the superior social class of the nobility.<br /><br />The Middle Ages is a period that tries to manage its contradictions in a balanced way hence shifting from one elitist contradiction to another elitist contradiction. Umberto Eco misses this last point.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-11-23
US	50989966	RWY3904D1NRXJ	0226873803	967971006	So Black and Blue: Ralph Ellison and the Occasion of Criticism	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Ralph Ellison is betrayed in a way	Ralph Ellison is a mythic author. He had a tremendous influence with his essays by imposing two changes in the American mood about the Blacks. First he managed to show and prove that the black slaves were victims of slavery for sure but that they also created, from recollection and from pure creation, a culture that remained clandestine for a long time and enabled them to save their psychological sanity in front of the horrendous fate that was theirs. Second he managed to show and prove that sociologists had a completely wrong picture of the Blacks in America, a negative picture characterized by wants and needs but nothing else, hence social cases that had to be dealt with politically. Instead he developed a positive picture of a rich community with ethics and a culture that had nothing to envy from other communities. What's more he showed how this black culture from gospels to jazz, from novels to poetry, from food to quilts, was an asset for the Blacks in general but also a tremendous incentive and asset for all Americans. Without Jim, the Negro, there would not be any Huckleberry Finn, hence no American novel, or definitely not the same thing. Ralph Ellison was also the author of two novels that demonstrated how culture is able to go beyond a particular situation and to reach universal grounds, because these two novels reached universality. He showed in these novels how an oppressed and exploited community, any ianywhere in the world, builds for themselves a culture that unifies them and how they can use many motivations to get together if they feel that culture and their community are endangered, and this beyond all differences and even antagonisms. This is extremely modern. He also shows how, if this mass of gathered people do not find a clear perspective, some minorities among them will get into violence. He shows symbolically how the invisible man, the nameless hero of the first novel, Invisible Man, escapes this rampage but to get locked up in a coal cellar that he transforms into his shelter. He installs hundreds of light bulbs and this white light in this black cellar illuminates the black man he is. He is finally seeable, but unseen, still invisible but potentially visible, because, though white and black can in no way be separated and have to be taken together, you need people who want to see you to be seen. In Juneteenth, the white racist senator reveals himself to be, after having been shot by some person who disagreed with his racism, a black man who used to be, in his teens, a black preacher. No matter how hard and much a white man negates his black roots, they always catch up. Culture is the force that unifies, is the melting pot in which dreams of the future can be invented, is the showcase of any minority that proves through it they are a lot better than what the bigots on the other side may say. But Warren's book misses most of this and speaks of anarchy and chaos in the present urban black neighborhoods, whereas Ellison would have spoken of « democratic diversity » because for him the black community has no future in the present times if it does not encourage differences and build itself from and around these differences, because the unifying culture has to be sufficiently multifarious to involve and lead everyone towards a dream of a better future : and the first quality of that better future will be, and has to be right now, the integration into wider communities, with all their particularities and their differences, so in no way an assimilation, a homogenizing process. Democracy and creativity require diversity and democracy demands, and this from all communities concerned, and in our present case from the Whites who are a community like all the others, that this diversity be cultivated and encouraged. Without forgetting that all damage has to be repaired (this is called reparations). Sorry for Mr Warren, but he missed the target, and by far.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUthat he transforms into his shelter. He installs hundreds of light bulbs and this white light in this black cellar illuminates the black man he is. He is finally seeable, but unseen, still invisible but potentially visible, because, though white and black can in no way be separated and have to be taken together, you need people who want to see you to be seen. In Juneteenth, the white racist senator reveals himself to be, after having been shot by some person who disagreed with his racism, a black man who used to be, in his teens, a black preacher. No matter how hard and much a white man negates his black roots, they always catch up. Culture is the force that unifies, is the melting pot in which dreams of the future can be invented, is the showcase of any minority that proves through it they are a lot better than what the bigots on the other side may say. But Warren's book misses most of this and speaks of anarchy and chaos in the present urban black neighborhoods, whereas Ellison would have spoken of  democratic diversity  because for him the black community has no future in the present times if it does not encourage differences and build itself from and around these differences, because the unifying culture has to be sufficiently multifarious to involve and lead everyone towards a dream of a better future : and the first quality of that better future will be, and has to be right now, the integration into wider communities, with all their particularities and their differences, so in no way an assimilation, a homogenizing process. Democracy and creativity require diversity and democracy demands, and this from all communities concerned, and in our present case from the Whites who are a community like all the others, that this diversity be cultivated and encouraged. Without forgetting that all damage has to be repaired (this is called reparations). Sorry for Mr Warren, but he missed the target, and by far. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br /> <br />	2004-11-17
US	50989966	R312NE0J8DQBZL	0061032034	527472798	One More for the Road	Books	3	1	10	N	N	Uneven and pathetic	We all know Ray Bradbury. We all know he has written some of the best and most disquieting stories in the world, after WW2. But this volume of short stories is very uneven, at least. Some stories are quite interesting, but some other are the pathetic love letters of an old man, a very old man, to life, even and especially when he speaks of death. The point is that there is absolutely no commitment to any human values like freedom, happiness, creativity, except in one way, what he calls himself a very « selfish » way : his freedom soon to be questioned by death, his happiness that has to be satisfied by the world and other people, even dead writers, his creativity that he sums up to drowning in metaphors. But all that is vain and of no value for the reader. What proof does he have that the very young and talented author he met once would have been anything else but a derelict forty years later. And anyway why did he turned up a derelict forty years later ? Where is the cause, where is the explanation ? Nowhere in the story where Ray Bradbury just uses a time-machine to confront the derelict with what he was forty years before, as if the key to the future was in the hands of this young man, as if the only one responsible for his dereliction forty years later were him and him only. There is no compassion for anyone in this book. And the love scene between the two old people in one of the story is absurd, even if he may tell us it is his own experience. It is absurd because it is vain : at seventy one will never be seventeen again, not even in one's head, mind or soul. This is a caricature. These stories are maybe good for some men's magazine but I understand why they were sold for nearly nothing in London in october 2004. The English at least seem to know what is pathetic or even vain and absurd.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-11-10
US	50989966	R23AWDI7VSZ29U	1880418622	871670140	The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, Book 7)	Books	5	1	12	N	N	Even the worst evil is always coming back	The final volume of this enormous saga. Let me regret that it is a little bit short. I would have enjoyed some odd hundred pages more. I also regret the overuse of the Deus Ex Machina, particularly dealing with Dandelo. It was not necessary at all. I do NOT regret the intrusion of Stephen King as a character in his own tale. I just wonder at times if it is not a little bit too much, and what the meaning of it is.<br /><br />The circular parallel, if a parallel can be circular, between Gan (God), Roland (son of Steven) and the author (Stephen King) is mindraking but it could have been kept to a more discreet unsaid innuendo. But it definitely brings up the question of the relation between the author and the book, the author and the characters. It is an essential question for those who want to go scavenging in the author's private mind to explain the book.<br /><br />Here King is subtle enough to trap them on this track by blazing several false trails that bring up the real question : does the author who creates a character and a situation remain the master of his creation or do the character and the situation have an autonomy of their own, or a logic of their own ? This is the real question because a book must be analyzed from inside and not from outside, neither by projecting our phantasms nor those we imagine are the author's.<br /><br />So what meaning does this last volum bring to the whole ?<br /><br />What meaning does the very last chapter bring to the whole ?<br /><br />For one, man's happiness or doom is always man-made. It is the creative spirit of scientists and technicians associated with the evil desire of some men to control humanity, to dominate the world, to follow their egotistic impulses, that bring havoc to humanity, nature and the world. Catastrophes are too often man's work. For two, man's freedom and future are in the hands of both every single individual and the whole society.<br /><br />Each one of us must become conscious of what is the good way to follow (for each one of us, for humanity, for the world). Each one of us must connect with other people who have the same mind and then try to convince the whole humanity of our good intentions and good perspectives, knowing that anyway, in the long run, it is the logic of nature, the world and humanity that will prevail, not that of one particular individual or group of individuals. Stephen King is an ethical individualist who knows ethics is a global dimension that is globally governed by some force that is stronger than any given individual or group. It is not enough to believe we are right.<br /><br />We must go the way this force is going. Humanity is doomed if we do not respect it : pollution or war will destroy us ultimately if we do not accept the limits the universe puts on us. But this last volume brings up a completely different metaphor in its end. The metaphor of an ever-climbing spiral staircase that is built from our memories and the lessons we may have drawn (an essential and multifarious word in this novel) from past episodes provided we have lived them through intensely.<br /><br />And this spiral staircase will lead us to an end that will always be a new beginning, a beginning that will be the same as the previous beginning but with one element that we had forgotten to pick or pick the previous time. We are going up and yet it is always the same straight line we are walking, or rather climbing. It is a repetitive cycle in which we bring one more accessory at each starting point, pushing and pulling ourselves up in the process. No surprise if the last sentence of the last volume is the same as the first sentence of the first volume, if you remember it.<br /><br />In other words, for Stephen King, history repeats itself, but with the little change that will make the repetition slightly different and slightly improved. There is hope in this capability of one generation of men to learn one little thing from the previous generation. The Dark Tower is thus the force that fuels humanity up through history from one generation to the next : our children will do the same as us but with the slight addition that will mean progress.<br /><br />To protect the new generation against evil is just plain criminal because we prevent them to be prepared when evil comes, as it is bound to come. As the Jewish proverb goes in my family (don't forget it is a metaphor) : « Beat your children everyday. If you don't know why, they will. » And they sure will know what bad weather means when they are engulfed in a blizzard. In other words a marvellous opening door for the end of a writing career, if it is the end really : don't forget what is to be found at the top of the tower. Will there be another volume or two ?<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUm one generation to the next : our children will do the same as us but with the slight addition that will mean progress.     To protect the new generation against evil is just plain criminal because we prevent them to be prepared when evil comes, as it is bound to come. As the Jewish proverb goes in my family (don't forget it is a metaphor) : « Beat your children everyday. If you don't know why, they will. » And they sure will know what bad weather means when they are engulfed in a blizzard. In other words a marvellous opening door for the end of a writing career, if it is the end really : don't forget what is to be found at the top of the tower. Will there be another volume or two ?    Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-11-03
US	50989966	R19TXJIJ483D8S	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Many worlds but is there one that is pure?	Stephen King is approaching the end of the path leading to the Dark Tower. This sixth and last but one volume is phenomenal. It is the story of Susannah, who has been hijacked by some primitive spirit, who has been impregnated with a child during a rape in some stone circle, when she moves towards her delivery. It has to happen in New York in 1999. Susannah is thus taken by force, or nearly, to the Big Apple that looks like a big blood pie. The other members of her gunslinger ka-tet are following, plus the priest from Salem's Lot. And all of them are back in New York or in Maine, at different times and at in different places with different missions. Mia, the evil spirit, leads a game that she does not control. Her leadership is thus vain and blind. She is the prey and the prisoner of the Crimson King who wants her child, not really hers in fact, to achieve his destructive project against the beams that support the Dark Tower and the whole world. But the book is phenomenal because it brings together a great number of lines from other books by Stephen King. It is a real multiple crossroads and roundabout of a good dozen of his previous novels. This gives some perspective to his whole writing history. So many books have dealt with the theme of the bad guy who is trying to destroy the world. Evil versus good. But the good side is no choirboy : they are also able, the gunslingers, to kill innocent people if necessary. They are some kind of levelling machine that flattens everything and everyone that stands in their way. There is no stopping them. The chase is irresistible. Stephen King seems to want to give the key to his whole writing career and work. But Stephen King also goes one iota further in his obsession about the relationship between himself and his characters. He becomes an essential character in the book itself. He is the one who has started the whole shindick a long time ago and then he does not know any more if he is the creator of his characters or if he is only the receiver of news from beyond sent by his characters who, once propelled on the road to the Dark Tower, have assumed their existence the way they wanted. In other words he compares himself with the god of this multiple layer universe of his, this Gan who created the world from his navel. He too creates his characters and their adventures from his navel, not from his brain, so he says at least. But this is a fundamental question about creative activities : what creates what ? The artist creates his art, or art creates the artist ? It is impossible to answer such a question because it goes far beyond itself and brings forward the further question : what makes a creative act creative ? Is it because it reflects the world and makes us think about it ? Is it because it goes beyond all limits and taboos coming from the world and drowns us in this permanent tresspassing ambition ? Is it because he follows his deepest unconscious, his deepest impulses and bombards us with the bullets of the dark side of our souls and bodies ? What we can say is that King is a genius as for suspending our disbelief and that is an essential element about his success. He wraps the most incredible events in such a fascinating packaging that we cannot believe what we see and yet we cannot disbelive it. We are mesmerized by the style, by the story-telling and we navigate from one place to another, from one time to the next or the previous one, from one soul to all the others, from one being to the most human and humane or monstrous and frightening creatures without ever being sated, asking for more and more and more, enjoying the pleasure we find in believing, at least for a while, what is unbelievable from the very start. And this journey in the virtual world of the darkest mind in the universe is the supreme experience that makes us reach the deepest truth about humanity. Truth is never what we see because it can only be what we do not perceive and do not want to accept. Truth is a limitless dream beyond the obvious that does not require any faith but only the eyes and the desire to see the invisible. Truth is necessarily beyond any stimulus our senses can give us, at least our five basic senses, because we forgot there is a sixth one : imagination. King forces us to cultivate the garden of our imagination like no one ellse has ever done it, even Shakespeare.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUitless dream beyond the obvious that does not require any faith but only the eyes and the desire to see the invisible. Truth is necessarily beyond any stimulus our senses can give us, at least our five basic senses, because we forgot there is a sixth one : imagination. King forces us to cultivate the garden of our imagination like no one ellse has ever done it, even Shakespeare.  <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br /> <br />	2004-10-28
US	50989966	R6TO78OHJKPCN	0140436030	374643563	The Monk (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	18	N	N	What does a monastery hide in its cellars?	A classic in the gothic genre, in fact even a founding novel of the genre. It is at first sight a strong criticism of religious orders that lead to extreme violence and narrow-mindedness instead of charity, purity, humility, etc. But it is also another denunciation, that of the practice of some noble families of getting rid of some of their daughters by sending them to nunneries. Yet it is a novel that has many other interests. For one it is anti-Faust : the monk is the one who knows, who preaches THE truth, but he is also the one who is easily tempted and dragged into the worst crimes. Then, when the devil comes into the picture, it is not to save that monk from death, but to destroy him utterly : the objective of the devil has been, all along, to tempt him and to lead him to the worst destruction possible when he thinks he is saved from death by this very devil. The devil more or less takes possession of him, puts him under pressure in order to punish him in his mortal body a hundred times more severely than the Inquisition, to punish him not for his crime but for having been a monk who preached purity. Two objectives for the devil : to get rid of this cumbersome monk for the task of the devil in the world, and to prove to the world that monks and other moral fundamentalists are fakes and monsters. In this element this novel is modern because it announces the death of God among the people, the regression of religion. And yet it does not go as far as Goethe will go with Faust. Another interest is in the negation of sexuality by these religious fundamentalits : negatiion for themselves, but also negation for the whole society. Sex is dirty, sex is ungodly, sex is to be absolutely rejected, even if it does not take much for the monk to fall into it, though the nun, next door, seems to be a lot more unpliant on the subject. Women are more fundamentalistic than men on the subject, in the Catholic church. And yet it is through a woman that the devil will tempt the monk, how else could he do it anyway, though he will not even try to tempt the nun. Contradictory messages then. A last remark about how popular opinion is variable and can shift within seconds from adulation to the most extreme and destructive violence and hatred. This aspect goes along with the method the Inquisition uses to lead someone who is redhandedly taken while committing a crime to his or her execution by forcing that person to confess the crimes the court wants him or her to confess : and they will use all methods, even the most cruel ones, to reach their aim. They are not really concerned by the crime itself ot the truth but only by proving to the people with spectacular autodafes how good and useful they are at protecting people against evil. The Inquisition is an ego trip for powerthirsty religious dignitaries. All that and many other aspects make this novel fascinating and in a way modern.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUhow else could he do it anyway, though he will not even try to tempt the nun. Contradictory messages then. A last remark about how popular opinion is variable and can shift within seconds from adulation to the most extreme and destructive violence and hatred. This aspect goes along with the method the Inquisition uses to lead someone who is redhandedly taken while committing a crime to his or her execution by forcing that person to confess the crimes the court wants him or her to confess : and they will use all methods, even the most cruel ones, to reach their aim. They are not really concerned by the crime itself ot the truth but only by proving to the people with spectacular autodafes how good and useful they are at protecting people against evil. The Inquisition is an ego trip for powerthirsty religious dignitaries. All that and many other aspects make this novel fascinating and in a way modern.  <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2004-10-18
US	50989966	R1ZRMPLZYV1VSN	0521485835	427477345	The Alchemist (Cambridge Literature)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The apprentice always gets the treasure chest	A comedy that reveals some common traits in Ben Jonson plays. The Alchemist is a crook who, with the help of a woman and a servant, tries to get as much money as possible from anyone who is ready to believe brilliant promises founded on myths like turning lead into gold, or ready palms, or ready the stars and predicting the future, or getting married to some nobleman. It is all a bunch of lies wrapped up in beautiful language that uses a lot of Latin and Greek to make the promises both dim and brilliant, dim in meaning and brilliant in sound. It works very well till the neighbours start complaining about the agitation in the street and in the house, and till the owner of the house comes back and finds out what is going on. But the servant, aptly named Face, manages to get out of the trap by providing the owner of the house with a wife in the shape of a widow that had been brought in to marry a hypothetical Spanish count. She takes the first one that is ready to go through the procedure and it is the landlord. Since she brings a good dowry,  this landlord keeps the servant Face in his service. On the other side the two other crooks, Subtle, the Alchemist, and Doll, his woman, have escaped through the backyard leaving everything behind, particularly everything they had been able to get from their gullible clients. Face gets the profit and is purified by his new master. The master of the house easily gets everyone out, all the complainers who do not dare go to a court, especially since they have no written evidence of the tricks they have been the victims of, which would mean they would look like fools. They just drop the matter and go away. Crooks once again work in groups and it is the lowest servant of the band that reveals himself to be more intelligent and swift than his own master, so that he cheats him out of the profit, he manages to get clean out of the business, and he even gets a better position than before. All along Ben Jonson ridicules doctors, puritans, rich people who want to satisfy their ambition for power with quick easy and somewhat magical means. Hence the gullible victims of such crooks are definitely made fun of, though Ben Jonson saves morality in a way by punishing the master crook who loses everything, and yet is immoral because the crook apprentice or helper gets all the profit, hence stealing all the victims of what they had paid or given. Rather brilliant though slightly verbose.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUrich people who want to satisfy their ambition for power with quick easy and somewhat magical means. Hence the gullible victims of such crooks are definitely made fun of, though Ben Jonson saves morality in a way by punishing the master crook who loses everything, and yet is immoral because the crook apprentice or helper gets all the profit, hence stealing all the victims of what they had paid or given. Rather brilliant though slightly verbose. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2004-10-11
US	50989966	RH2ZPVGA246N9	0719055431	520411189	Epicene, or the Silent Woman: By Ben Jonson	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gender and social equilibrium	I defy anyone to understand the meaning of this play, of this comedy. Ben Jonson makes fun of many people and things. First of liberated women of his time who wanted to be witty and learned and mixed wit and knowledge with latin and learned references. Second of some men who are ready, to shine in the eyes of these women, to get into quarrels by using some derogatory humour or wit at the expense of some other man. Third of justice, both secular and religious, and their ridiculous use of latin phrases to explore a case in spite of the fact that no one understands what is being said. It produces some kind of gibberish that is some extra-terrestrial language coming from nowhere. Fourth of some rich man who wants to marry in his old age to more or less get his money away from his relatives. Then we have an incredible maze of intrigues, plots and other schemes to make fun of everyone, marry the old man to a woman who does not say a peep up to the wedding ceremony and then finally speaks like a storm, divorce that same man from that same woman for all kinds of legal reasons that never apply to the case anyway, and finally liberate him by revealing, what we knew from the very start, that this woman was a man. This last punchline ridicules the women who had become absolutely infatuated with this Epicene. In the end who is on the right side ? We don't know. The play becomes a satire of the evolution of a society when sexual and genre roles are slightly modified in a way or another. It creates havoc and more imbroglios than real depth and meaning. Maybe Ben Jonson is embracing too many problems at the same time.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-10-06
US	50989966	R3NJHG16G5XUD1	0713630442	593315193	Volpone (New Mermaids Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The fly is better than the fox at cheating	This  comedy is so entangled that a fox would lose his cubs in the multiple loops and traps that are conjured up by all the characters. It reveals how the rich are greedy and want to become richer at the expense of their fellow richmen. It exposes how the politicians are nothing but windbags, would-bes as Jonson calls them. It points out how some women are nothing but flytraps that know everything, that say anything, that have the last word at any time ever. It also shows how a conjurer of tricks aiming at trapping others and taking possession of their goods needs a helper and that the helper can learn even faster than the master, especially if this helper is a parasite by nature. It also shows how men are lecherous and only think of taking the wives of their neighbors because these men, this society is deeply misogynistic and consider that women are harlots, and some other nice words, by nature. There is thus a wide spectrum of criticism of this society, maybe a little bit too wide and too complicated. Due to the names of the characters, the crow, the raven and even the fox are the final victims of the plain fly that is nothing but a parasite sucking the gold of the others. The ending is moral since Bonario and Celia do get some justice from the court, but it is also perfectly immoral because Mosca keeps his unethically gained fortune, in fact the fortune he has stolen from Volpone who wanted to steal the riches of everyone else. It is moral in a way because the immoral and greedy plotters are all punished but it is immoral because the main sorcerer's helper gets his hand on the loot. The sorcerer's apprentice is thus more or less the main benefactor of the moral decision of the court. This leads to another level of reflexion : the court, that is to say the ruling body of Venice, is not so much interested in morality and justice as in the necessity to prevent any event that could rock their boat, endanger their power. Who profits of this decision is not their problem provided it does not stir any discontent among the people. The play thus becomes a strong criticism of justice as blind as long as its interests are not at stake and as opening their eyes only when their power may be disturbed by the crime brought to their attention. We will note in the end that Ben Jonson's style is witty but not really poetic. His poetry is more clich&eacute;s in the garb of witticism.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUem provided it does not stir any discontent among the people. The play thus becomes a strong criticism of justice as blind as long as its interests are not at stake and as opening their eyes only when their power may be disturbed by the crime brought to their attention. We will note in the end that Ben Jonson's style is witty but not really poetic. His poetry is more clich&eacute;s in the garb of witticism.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-09-30
US	50989966	R10K5XH3ZHK7XN	555960884X	817062475	City of Bones	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The bones of consciousness	A thriller, one more some would say. For sure, but what is the interest of this one ? It reveals LA and Hollywood under an X-raying light. All those small details we see everyday and that have no meaningful depth on the instant, become significant in this particular homicide case. The bones of the victim and their suffering. A backpack with nearly nothing in it. A skateboard that is yet another skateboard and yet it is encrypted with meaningful details that start shining like morning stars with the investigation. A father who is thought to be abusing his son and it is all wrong, a preconceived idea. A sister who is supposed to be crystal clean since she tipped the police about the case and turns out to be another victim. A reformed childmolester who is forced into suicide by the media unprofessionally tipped by a police leak. And a gruesome end that smells like frontier justice and vengeance against a criminal who really had no chance and luck in life, even if the book does not ponder enough on the fatality that befalls some individuals in our society. There cannot be any such thing as a born criminal. But there sure are some circumstances that can become particularly oppressive and lead to the worst situations imaginable.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-09-30
US	50989966	R2K46CFMNPDF35	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Is the future that brave and new?	This is a big book. This is a thriller. This is a page-turner. This is a fascinating dive into the lower dregs of terrorism. The first idea you have to consider is that terrorism is a profession and terrorists are professionals. Hence to fight against this phenomenon, which is in no way new but which has very new means and weapons, you need to have professionals anti-terror fighters. This leads to the question of who can control these fighters. It has to be a multinational body under the control of some agencies, but which ? The book takes the stand that ultimate control comes from the CIA, the FBI and the US military, and yet this body of fighters must keep their autonomy and hence be able to intervene under no control except the « ethics » of war, even when war is not declared, and in any country, with or without the agreement of the local government, though the latter case is only considered for countries like, in order of appearance, Australia, Venezuela, Brazil. This leads to serious questions about the legitimacy of this anti-terror group and also about the US leadership that seems to negate local laws and even local authorities, as if, as the book says, a new sheriff were out on the frontier that the world is. But the book goes a long way farther. All kinds of officially known and identified terrorist groups are seen as the heritage of the past (the new islamist groups are not taken into account) and these groups are manipulated into doomed actions. But this reveals that there is another possibility in the field : terrorism coming from american corporations that have tremendous means of action. They are rich and can use enormous amounts of money. They can take advantage of all privileges of international and multinational big corporations that enable them to by-pass all regulations in the field of air transport, customs controls and financial management. Hence they are beyond legal control. What's more they are managed by very small groups of people who have practically no accounts to give to anyone, even the shareholders, as long as money is pouring on the latter's bankaccounts. The case taken into account in this book is an international american-based pharmaceutical corporation that can mobilize tremendous research, development and financial means to reach their aims. They can also use professional spies or ex-spies, some of the best and best-trained in the world like the ex-KGB spies, to develop activities in the field of terrorism. These ex-KGB people, when turned capitalists, are particularly dangerous due to their connections and prestige in some « revolutionary » circles. The book shows how the newly-set Rainbow anti-terror group can cope with such menaces. But the motivation of these criminals is their love for nature and they are so extreme, and, since no differenciation is made between these and normal environmentalists, the book seems to condone those who consider that the environment must not be taken into account at all. The conclusion of the book is just absurd since it is a reference to the « Brave New World » that is coming in the future : but this reference to Aldous Huxley's novel promises us a strange future : the conditioning of any individual from birth into one of five classes of people without any possibility to escape this social hierarchy, except by getting away into some kind of rebellion in some wild uncontrolled territories. How can we accept a future in which one will be forced into one social class by some technocrats or politicians transforming everyone into an unconscious pawn on a chessboard that only this narrow ruling group can control ? In other words this vision leads to a totally undemocratic and unethical world that Aldous Huxley rejected and denounced and that Tom Clancy seems to endorse entirely. A fascinating book that leads to a dangerous vision if the reader does not inject his own distanciation into the discourse, if the reader does not see that this allusion to the «Brave New World » of tomorrow has to be read as an ironical warning about the future of this anti-terroristic vision and management of humanity. And we will credit Tom Clancy with this distanciation in his mind, even if his book does not in any way goes that way.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUNew World  of tomorrow has to be read as an ironical warning about the future of this anti-terroristic vision and management of humanity. And we will credit Tom Clancy with this distanciation in his mind, even if his book does not in any way goes that way. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br /> <br />	2004-09-26
US	50989966	RGFC5UV5BW70S	0451200535	524952501	Postern of Fate	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Cold War is a bad inspirer	One of the most surprising novel by Agatha Christie I have ever read. No Poirot, no Marple, but Tommy and Tuppence. This book is a soft thriller but it deals with a very special type of crime : politically minded organizations that do not hesitate to commit crime to conquer power. Clearly connected and affiliated to the fascist or nazi movement and ideology, this crime is also linked, marginally it is true, to communism. It reveals how a democratic society like Britain is using secret services and special services to infiltrate and explore those organizations in order to contain them or destroy them. What is strange is that there is no real exploration of the motivations of either side. Why do some people want to change the world and can come to criminal means if necessary ? Why does an established social order spend so much energy and time destroying those who could represent a « menace » to this establishment, hence containing any group or organization that may represent change in this established society ? In other words the approach is very conservative. It captures the sympathy of the reader by evoking fascism, nazism or even communism, but no real assessment of the established social order is really given. After all, maybe this established social order should change or be changed ? How can change occur in a society where secret services and special services do all they can to prevent any change ? Isn't it dangerous to block change in a society ? These questions are at the back of the mind of any conscious reader, but no answer is given, no opening is provided, no reflexion is proposed. The book is thus slightly disappointing. It is the typical result of the Cold War ideology and atmosphere but Agatha Christie is a lot better inspired  when she deals with real crime outside the sphere of politics.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-09-06
US	50989966	R3TT925Y8C6F0S	0345422406	312807149	Merrick (Vampire/Witches Chronicles)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The Talamasca declares war on vampires	This novel in the series called The Vampire Chronicles is very surprising in many ways. Anne Rice starts merging her witch line with the Mayfairs and her vampire line with Lestat and Louis, and some others. But this merging is marginal as for the Mayfair line since it  concerns a \\"colored\\" witch, or a witch from the \\"colored\\" line of the Mayfair family, that is to say the descendants of the white Mayfairs in the black population of their slaves and servants. But this line of \\"colored\\" witches introduces us to new witchcraft and first of all Vodun, which some of us call voodoo. The approach shows how the Christian dressing of this religion that has its roots in Africa, is systematic and extensive. But this vodun religion is based on some age-old, ancient practices: animal sacrifices, the use of blood, charms, and of course the belief that spirits exist and that, when we die, we either go into the light, that is paradise, or we err and roam in some dark in-between space and we can haunt the world of the living. There is no concept of hell or satan in this religion. The book though goes even further because it takes us to Guatemala where Merrick looks for and finds some more than ancient spirits and magical artifacts, particularly a mask that will enable her to achieve the objective that Anne Rice gives her in this book. She accepts to bring back the spirit of Claudia, a  child vampire from the very first volumes of these Vampire Chronicles, because Louis wants to know how she is faring in her death. She was made a vampire as a child, she tried to destroy Lestat, escaped with Louis to Europe and Paris, and she was executed by other vampires in Paris by exposure to the sun, because she had destroyed her maker, which is an unacceptable crime for vampires. Merrick does the magic and then we can see the reactions of the various vampires in this group (they are four altogether). This will start a war between vampires and the Talamasca, a secret society studying paranormal phenomena and beings. This book is very interesting because of this blending procedure: blending of two novel lines, blending of at least two religions and two or three witchcrafts, blending of plot lines and diverging developments. A must in the field of fantastique literature.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUhenomena and beings. This book is very interesting because of this blending procedure: blending of two novel lines, blending of at least two religions and two or three witchcrafts, blending of plot lines and diverging developments. A must in the field of fantastique literature. <br /> <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU <br />	2004-08-27
US	50989966	R2QQZMYTBRPCGA	0452266564	146685771	The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty :The First of the Acclaimed Series of Erotic Adventures of Sleeping Beauty	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Sleeping Beauty meets the Prince	Anne Rice's rewriting of Sleeping Beauty is absolutely remarkable. The Prince that claims her takes her away for her to become a sexual toy in the court of some tyrannical Queen. She goes through an initiation that leads her into understanding and feeling that subservience and total submission is the source of absolute slavery to pleasure. Her sexual functioning is made so prominent in her life that it becomes dominant in her bodily functioning. And this sexual desire that becomes permanent is triggered by anything and particularly by humiliation, punishment, abasement, domination, etc. This sexual excitement is also made dependent on all other senses, particularly her sight. She just needs to see someone or something that is desirable for her sexual circuits to start flowing with desire and fluids, and then some punishment or humiliation is inflating this desire even more. She becomes the slave of it and can only fulfill its course. Yet this training of princes and princesses by other nobles does not aim at dominating the intellect of these young people. And in this intellect the rebellious element can become more powerful than their subservience. And in their psyche love can become stronger than sexual drive. Then Beauty is led into rebellion and thrown down into a punishing experience out of the court, in the village next to the castle. Sexual enhancement, if it does not go along with the breaking of the intellect and the negation of all sentiments and passions, can only lead to that rebellion.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-06-24
US	50989966	R2NNPXB3TXJRHH	0452281458	267176978	Beauty's Release: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Resilience and slavery	The first moment of their sultanic experience is to be degraded even more. Their being transformed into sexual toys is considered by their captors as destroying their intellect. They thus become mute animals that have no other level of existence than this very sexual drive and desire to satisfy all sexual and also cruel pulses in the sultan and his court. But this third volume shows the metaphoric or even allegorical dimension of the trilogy. Beyond the erotic speculation in the book, Anne Rice shows how degrading a human being leads to the « discovery » she says, the building of a new consciousness that will have a lasting existence. Human beings are emerging in their humanity or even humaneness through the difficulties and the challenges they encounter, and first of all the degrading and enslaving situations. The more overpowered one is, the greater his psychological strength. This is kind of optimistic because many human beings are destroyed through these experiences and experiments. But it is based on the concept of « resilience » in human beings : their capacity to resist degredation, not by rebelling, but by reinforcing their psyche. The world today shows many situations in which human beings are thus abased and tortured and downtrodden, and it also shows how many of them can emerge from these experiences with a reinforced psyche. Yet it is not that simple, and this resilience does not allow any human being to do such things to other human beings. Anne Rice is an optimist when she deals with humanity. But be sure that the erotic matter of this trilogy will become banal very fast. It will become a decor, a backdrop and nothing else. You will only see, after a while, the degredation and the psychological resilience of the characters. A last remark is to be made : slaves can be made to love slavery, and that is the worst part of it : a slave is not necessarily conscious that he can change the situation, and what's more he is not necessarily willing to do so because he comes to the point where his dependence is a necessity to survive, or at least he sees it like that.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUecause he comes to the point where his dependence is a necessity to survive, or at least he sees it like that.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-06-24
US	50989966	R7G5TC3JNGI10	0452281431	533637295	Beauty's Punishment: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Become a slave and you will love it	In the village Beauty and some others are auctioned to the civilians who transform them into working slaves : they have to work, the boys are turned into horses or poneys, and their masters and mistresses are degrading them and punishing them into a new stage of submission. They develop their dependence on this enslavement to the point of getting in love with the punishment and the punishing masters or mistresses. At this moment they cannot even imagine themselves leaving or escaping from that degrading position because their psyche has been made dependent on it, because their intellect has been centered on it. Their whole vision of the world and of themselves in the world holds only because of this enslavement that becomes the cornerstone of it, the apex of any intelligent or sensual reaction and action. They need the punishment to remain structured. Without the punishment they collapse into sheer non-existence, a scattered jigsaw puzzle whose pieces cannot be set back into any kind of a pattern. But this punishment is brutally interrupted by some sultanic pirates who take away these slaves to become the toys of their master, the Sultan. The Queen negociates that operation by lending these slaves of hers for a hefty amount of money and with the objective of them being given back in a couple of years.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-06-24
US	50989966	R2ZXM5V8CAABH	0451201167	998599484	The Moving Finger (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Miss Marple is knitting her charm	The interest of this small detective story is not where we could think it should be. Miss Marple solves the problem in a very holmesian way : don't look for what is obvious but look for what is hidden by the smokescreen of the obvious. But the book reveals, describes and analyzes the reactions of a village and of the people in the village who are confronted to a series of anonymous letters. It shows how gossiping dominates and informs the minds of the people. It shows how these minds can be totally governed by old fears, perverse curiosity and jealousy in a way or another. It shows how idleness due to the lack of eventful developments in a village manages the life of people : when nothing happens in your village, the slightest little piece of news or observation of your neighbour becomes an essential topic. A criminal, here a murderer, can then use this functioning to build a smokescreen that will hide his own crime and send everyone, including the police, on a wrong track because they are going to follow the obvious and the obvious is what you can see, and when there is a smokescreen you can only see the smoke. It is well done, though regular readers of detective stories will know the solution practically from the very start. This genre is aging rather fast because it has developed so much that it has enlarged the ability of the readers to see the strings of the plot, even when these strings are covered with a smokescreen, and Agatha Christie is a real artist at leading us astray, if we just let ourselves be led, which is in a way an essential quality in a « good » reader.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-06-17
US	50989966	R44Z55EOL8IAQ	2266108417	410413826	Mr. X	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shadows are full of life and death	Peter Straub can be fascinating, and he is in this book. In a MIdwestern city, on the Mississippi, there is a strange history of abnormality and shady events. It all revolves around two families. One family, an old one coming from the east, has a strange supernatural power that is transmitted from one generation to the next : a strange power that endows some with the art of shoplifting, some with the possibility to navigate back into the past, and some with more gruesome possibilities including that of levitating objects or people or of reducing a human being to a pint of bile. The second family is a business institution that accumulates power, property, capital and enterprise. What happens when the two families cross ? What's more through some act of fornication that produces a son that inherits these powers without knowing where they come from ? This man becomes a monster because he knows his powers but he ignores his real origin and resents his marginal at least if not even worse position. He becomes the shadowy criminal that haunts the back alleys of the city. But he even goes slightly further and, unknowingly, recrosses the boundary between the two falmilies and produces a double son, one having only part of the powers but being a full human being, and the other snatched at birth and having the criminal mind of his father and a very unhuman capacity, that of being immaterial in many ways, of being able to vanish into thin air and travel like a draft of wind. This is the supernatural level of the book. But Peter Straub enters the realm of social reality and the « human » son of this Mr X is the target of all ambitions coming from the wife of the heir of the second family whp wants to get a divorce from her husband and put her hands on the money of the family for the sake of her own son. He is also trapped by the shady connections and promises of his own family that protect the heir of the rich family through secret agreements and the acceptance not to tell anyone about the terms of these agreements, including this young man, their nephew. Then it is the quest for the father that this young man gets into that will lead him to the truth and the realization that he has to destroy this father to get rid of the destructive menace that comes from him : this father is convinced that he can only liberate himself by destroying his own son. This father is tricked by the fact that his son has an immaterial double, and that he has to destroy them both. He is tricked by his own material son who brings him back to the past and confronts him with the truth about his own father, a truth he cannot accept and that makes him destroy himself. And yet the son is not liberated completely because he is then haunted and chased by his immetarial brother. There is no escape then and he has to run. Every chapter of this book goes one step further and farther into this haunting chase and it ends with a true and total malediction, a curse. We discover page after page the drama of this curse and the ugliness of a society dominated by the rich who can do what they want, and yet can be captured by some service (IRS or FBI or any other) that manages, with the help of some immaterial being, to crack the bubble of secrecy and protection these rich people have built around themselves. And the downfall is then very painful, but such rich people are able to accept their defeat and then to plan their downfall so that the interests of their capital and family line are not endangered even if they lose the control of them and have to accept to pass them over to that yound illegitimate heir of theirs that is at once transformed by the good news into a business plotter. A great book, though at times a little bit difficult to follow due to its intricacies.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUone about the terms of these agreements, including this young man, their nephew. Then it is the quest for the father that this young man gets into that will lead him to the truth and the realization that he has to destroy this father to get rid of the destructive menace that comes from him : this father is convinced that he can only liberate himself by destroying his own son. This father is tricked by the fact that his son has an immaterial double, and that he has to destroy them both. He is tricked by his own material son who brings him back to the past and confronts him with the truth about his own father, a truth he cannot accept and that makes him destroy himself. And yet the son is not liberated completely because he is then haunted and chased by his immetarial brother. There is no escape then and he has to run. Every chapter of this book goes one step further and farther into this haunting chase and it ends with a true and total malediction, a curse. We discover page after page the drama of this curse and the ugliness of a society dominated by the rich who can do what they want, and yet can be captured by some service (IRS or FBI or any other) that manages, with the help of some immaterial being, to crack the bubble of secrecy and protection these rich people have built around themselves. And the downfall is then very painful, but such rich people are able to accept their defeat and then to plan their downfall so that the interests of their capital and family line are not endangered even if they lose the control of them and have to accept to pass them over to that yound illegitimate heir of theirs that is at once transformed by the good news into a business plotter. A great book, though at times a little bit difficult to follow due to its intricacies.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-06-15
US	50989966	R1RHB1IQ0J462W	0060937262	330724227	Imajica: Featuring New Illustrations and an Appendix	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The alpha is the omega	Is this book a rewriting or a perversion of the Gospels and the Book of Revelation ? Both and neither. The story itself, the plot if you want, is beyond any telling, summarizing or even sketching. It is extremely complex and difficult - at times - to follow. Not too many notes like in Mozart, but too many characters. As a rewriting of the New Testament, a Reconciler (a Christ) has to reconcile and regenerate the five Dominions of the Universe, Imajica, creating love and prosperity. But the male God has to be destroyed - since he is an imposter - to enable the three female Goddesses he had crushed down to take over and give life a chance. He also has to be killed to open the final door for spirits situated in the first layer of this universe. The male God is a tyrant. It is his son that has to go through the process of getting him destroyed and regenerating the alpha to open the omega. This vision is entirely dominated by the female principle : three Goddesses take over ; the God's son's mother who was rapterously raped by this God is the tool used to destroy him ; this universe is composed of five dominions that are building a circle, with a sixth one for the dead that is inside this circle. This book is also a beautiful symphony of words, images, situations and symbols dedicated to love, particularly love between beings who are not supposed - by standard ethics - to love each other : homosexuals ; individuals from radically different species ; love for the destroyer and hate for the Saviour ; and yet love for the Saviour and hate for the destroyer. Love is hate and hate is love. This is achieved page after page. Any love is hate and any hate is love. Life is this constant contradiction and it is only spiritual forces inside and outside that can liberate alienated individuals and real human fate, destiny, providence and feelings. Some will say this vision of the universe is anti-christian or even anti-god. Yet this vision cannot stand and make sense if the concept of God, of a superior force, drive is not present from beginning to end in every event, development, being. This book is the most spiritual and religious book that can be found even if and even because it kills old conceptions of allmighty male gods. This book should be a must for want-to-be priests and preachers.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUf God, of a superior force, drive is not present from beginning to end in every event, development, being. This book is the most spiritual and religious book that can be found even if and even because it kills old conceptions of allmighty male gods. This book should be a must for want-to-be priests and preachers.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-05-20
US	50989966	RLERK5IB6TH41	0446531316	822131758	Street Dreams (Kellerman, Faye)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A female Jewish Cop in LAPD, hard hard hard!	This is a detective story of a new style. In a way an inside story of the LAPD. Cynthia Decker is a cop on the beat in Hollywood. We follow her step by step in a period of her professional life, her transition year from officer to detective. This period is centered on one particular case : the story of Sarah Sanders and her discarded baby. This leads to exploring the world of handicaped people in LA, their problems, their reactions to life and their ways of thinking and behaving. But this also leads to a network or gang of people who are taking advantage of retarded women with a gang rape and a shadowy character who seduces them, uses them and then discards them. Violence is of course part of the picture : a man is beaten up, a woman is hit and run to death, Cynthia Decker is the victim of an attemped murder, etc. But the interest of the book goes a lot farther. It explores the institution known as the LAPD, its inside rivalries, careerism and ambitions, its legal limitations that prevent efficiency, and the necessity at times to go beyond these limits to get the information and the lead an investigation needs, and even the difficulty for women to be really equal in this institution that is definitely male-dominated. Even further it explores the problem of racism inside the institution and of the insritution towards society at large : racial prejudice is an everyday reality and it requires a lot of work to get rid of it or at least to neutralize it. But even further, Cynthia Decker being Jewish, it goes into exploring the Jewish community she lives in, with openings to the old antisemitism of Germany in the 30s, to antisemitism in America today, to the Jewish commmunity spirit both religious and social or cultural, etc. This exploration of Jewish culture is extremely interesting and it is the basis of the motivations of several characters in the book as for their involvement in police work and hospital work. The book brings the case to an end which is in a way a satisfying ending giving answers to all the questions asked in the novel. It has a few flaws that limit the effectiveness of the reasoning. For instance, the fact that the killer is an Iraqi disguising himself as a Mexican is a little bit easy. Sex offenders come from all walks of life and all social strata. It would have been a lot more effective if this character had been a plain American citizen, because most offenders in this field are plain American people, in general plain citizens in any country who are characterized most of the time as simple, lackluster and just nice neighbors. In the same way the anti-arab or anti-Palestinian stand of some characters, though perfectly true among some Jews is provided to us without any distanciation and without what is essential among Jews : all Jews are not thinking along this line and quite many of them remember their past and refuse to reproduce this past against the Palestinians, even in Israel itself. It is also too easy to reduce, the way the book does, the national struggle of Palestinians to terrorism. But apart from these flaws, the book is interesting because it goes beyond the plain criminal details into the psyche and consciousness of the people at stake, particularly the cops. Cops are definitely not simple-minded people : they do have a culture, an ethical stand and doubts about their involvement in society and the way they have to work to find criminals in a society that is definitely opaque and obscure, a characteristic that enables criminals to hide very easily.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUisfying ending giving answers to all the questions asked in the novel. It has a few flaws that limit the effectiveness of the reasoning. For instance, the fact that the killer is an Iraqi disguising himself as a Mexican is a little bit easy. Sex offenders come from all walks of life and all social strata. It would have been a lot more effective if this character had been a plain American citizen, because most offenders in this field are plain American people, in general plain citizens in any country who are characterized most of the time as simple, lackluster and just nice neighbors. In the same way the anti-arab or anti-Palestinian stand of some characters, though perfectly true among some Jews is provided to us without any distanciation and without what is essential among Jews : all Jews are not thinking along this line and quite many of them remember their past and refuse to reproduce this past against the Palestinians, even in Israel itself. It is also too easy to reduce, the way the book does, the national struggle of Palestinians to terrorism. But apart from these flaws, the book is interesting because it goes beyond the plain criminal details into the psyche and consciousness of the people at stake, particularly the cops. Cops are definitely not simple-minded people : they do have a culture, an ethical stand and doubts about their involvement in society and the way they have to work to find criminals in a society that is definitely opaque and obscure, a characteristic that enables criminals to hide very easily.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-04-28
US	50989966	RQ1Z848AMLL91	069103656X	949576922	Faust I & II (Goethe : The Collected Works, Vol 2)	Books	5	28	36	N	N	In Faust II, the devil is fooled	This play is rarely performed, if ever. It is too complicated, too complex, and full of numerous special effects. It is fantastique to the extreme. It also entertwines several lines.<br /><br />First the Emperor. He is captivated by some magic and the apparition of Helen and Paris. This is enough to bring the Court to extreme pleasure. Then this Emperor is lured into creating paper-money. The Empire becomes rich with that money that comes from nowhere. This is of course a criticism of paper money that is invented by the French Revolution, based on all the religious and noble estates that have been requisitioned by the government and are being sold. This episode will end three acts later. This paper money has developed total anarchy because it has made everyone willing and desirous to freely implement their initiative. In other words it has created unregulated free enterprise.<br /><br />Then order has become a demand from the people and they have more or less unified behind a new self-appointed Enperor. Hence a civil war. This vision is absolutely prophetic about the dictatorships that emerged from this nineteenth century's capitalism. Faust and Mephistopheles will provide the old Emperor with victory in exchange of Faust's possession of the coast.<br /><br />The second line is that of the deepest layers of the magical and mythological realms. We go down into the world of the Meres, and of all the fantastique monsters of all mythologies. It becomes a Walpurgis night of a new type and Faust learns how vain and evanescent these beings may be. You cannot count on them to hold their promises. It is fascinating but also totally frustrating. Nothing real can come out of it.<br /><br />And yet, third line, Faust is able to save and conquer Helen just after her return to Greece, just before her being put to death by Melenas. She lives in an old Gothic castle with Faust and she is able to give Faust a son, Euphorion, who will be inspired by Faust so well into believing that anything is possible and desirable, particularly flying in the sky, that he will reenact the experience of Icarus and will fall to the ground and die, and in fact vanish, leaving behind his clothes and lyra. This will determine in its turn the vanishing of Helen.<br /><br />At this point of these three lines Faust finally understands that Mephistopheles can only provide him with illusions, nothing real. And yet, fourth line, he gets from the Emperor the coast along which he is going to implement his ideas, thanks to the real work of people. His mind has thought a way to conquer earth from the sea with dams and canals. Thousands of workers build these polders and create a new rich country that can prosper economically. His mind, associated to thousands of hands, can create a rich country and bring comfort and wealth to thousands of people who deserve it thanks to and earn it through their work.<br /><br />It is then that Faust dies and Mephistopheles wants to take possession of his soul, as promised a long time agao with a signature in blood. But angels come down and lure his lust into forgetting about his aim and they capture Faust's soul and take it into the sky. That is when Faust's redemption becomes possible, fifth line. He has to be examined by three fatherly figures, three patriarchs, and then defended by three women, among whom Gretchen is one essential figure, and these three women have to convince the Holy Virgin of the redeemable dimension of Faust's soul, which she accepts on the basis of the good he had come to in his last living phase, and because Gretchen actually forgives him for his luring her into a lustful affair that caused her being put to death.<br /><br />This play is a sharp criticism of emerging capitalism and its selfish free enterprise spirit. It is a criticism of the simulacra this new emerging society represents : paper money, phantasms, the chase for pleasure, the rejection of religion and of all ethics, the vanity of fake magical knowledge, the illusion of living in some mythical imagined world, etc.<br /><br />It is also the advocacy of the real world, of nature, of implementable knowledge, of science applied to nature in order to improve the lot of humanity, in order for humanity to improve their lot through their own work. Then we can see that Goethe in his mature old age rethinks the world of his younger spirit through a complete reassessment of all human spiritual constructions and illusions. It is a real descent into the hell of a spirit that does not want to acknowledge any limits to its adventurous passions.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUdge, the illusion of living in some mythical imagined world, etc.<br /><br />It is also the advocacy of the real world, of nature, of implementable knowledge, of science applied to nature in order to improve the lot of humanity, in order for humanity to improve their lot through their own work. Then we can see that Goethe in his mature old age rethinks the world of his younger spirit through a complete reassessment of all human spiritual constructions and illusions. It is a real descent into the hell of a spirit that does not want to acknowledge any limits to its adventurous passions.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-04-25
US	50989966	R6UOKNZJTR8WO	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The world is a big plot of the CIA	John Grisham leads us into some political fiction about a presidential election in the US that is entirely rigged by the CIA. This is a very banal idea that many authors have worked upon over several decades now. Everything that happens in the US and in the world comes from the CIA. The CIA is the real and only ruler of the world. Note the boss of this plotting organization is an old man in a wheel chair. Physically impotent, yet he is the brain of all plots, events, and violence in the world. The first idea here is that finally that clandestine king that rules the CIA wants to have a President that would be their real toy, a man that they would have done, made, produced, crowned, through popular vote manipulated by some guided violence in the world. The second idea is that the only winning motto in the US is war, violence, security, the desire to be safe at home, and to control the world in order to be safe at home. The world is dangerous and the US, Americans are the prime target of all those in the world who want a share of power. Hence the only policy can be to double the budget of the Pentagon to have the best defense and weapons in the world. That is a little simple, even simple-minded. But that was acceptable in 2000 when the book came out. Today we would have our doubts because we have found out that the best weapons are nothing against the will of masses of people to counteract and to resist, if these people are ready not to count casualties on their side : they are numerous enough to cause damage, to create havoc, and yet to find more volunteers to go on with the sea of such a popular, massive guerrilla warfare. The last idea, and the thrilling plot of this novel is a scam against gay people organized by three judges (from all levels of justice) operating from a prison. It is easy. It is effective. It can bring in a lot of money, especially when they manage to trap the CIA-made candidate in their net. The whole book is about how they negociate the obstacle that becomes at once a great asset in their scam. And they do that very effectively. An entertaining book in a not so entertaining world. But also a frightening book in a very frightening world.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUthat becomes at once a great asset in their scam. And they do that very effectively. An entertaining book in a not so entertaining world. But also a frightening book in a very frightening world.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-04-15
US	50989966	R9MQ5RRVXZCP1	037541200X	54978597	Blood Canticle (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	9	21	N	N	A crossroads of possibilities	Anne Rice is back on her blood track. Lestat is back too and as lethally biting as usual. She brings together her two story lines : the Mayfair Saga and Lestat's Memoirs. It leads to some very fascinating moments where the psychology of the vampire, as it has evolved from that of the living being that was before, is explored in the various clashes each one of them has with the others, other vampires of course, but also human beings. And Anne Rice brings the Taltos line back into her writing. Fascinating too, but to a point. She decides to retrieve the Taltos from doom a little bit too late and she finds too many corpses that have been produced by a society, the Taltos society, that was doomed to get destroyed because of their own psychological and biological limits and possibilities and by the impossible commerce these Taltos can entertain with humans. They are taken over, which means destroyed both by the plotting members of their society and by the thugs of drug dealing. So we only get a description of their society through the survivors. It would have been interesting to enter this society and discover its shortcomings and its values and possibilities before they were destroyed. This is a little bit frustrating. But what is also kind of irritating is the fact that Anne Rice opens a great number of possible future developments but produces here a transitory book that does not really reach the level and height her novels generally reach. To the point of making a mistake and asserting that Lestat had to retrieve the microprocessor of a computer to take the memory of the computer along. Luckily she corrects the mistake later and this microprocessor becomes a hard drive, though only the hard disk was necessary. I find this volume a little less powerful than the previous ones and defintely less full of research and culture. Maybe she wanted to satisfy her readers who wanted a real Lestat again. Lestat may regress if he does not reach beyond what he has already done and into absolutely virginal lands. For sure he discovers love for a woman, and what woman, but this runs the risk of becoming a little bit soft in the intensity of the psychic and psychological exploration. And that poor Lestat loses his ambiguity in this adventure, though his ambiguity is his personal signature.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUinto absolutely virginal lands. For sure he discovers love for a woman, and what woman, but this runs the risk of becoming a little bit soft in the intensity of the psychic and psychological exploration. And that poor Lestat loses his ambiguity in this adventure, though his ambiguity is his personal signature.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-04-06
US	50989966	R1KDG7XYCQQL03	0850361184	245012979	Marx's Theory of Alienation	Books	4	5	21	N	N	Honest, orthodox, hence unvisionary	The subject of the book is fundamental if we want to understand why the « communist » experiment failed and was doomed to fail. The author is orthodox and intelligent enough to be faithful to Marx but he is also fundamentalistic enough not to see the mistake of the orthodox reading of Marx, of Marx himself. Marx wrote before the modern development of advanced anthropology. So he neglects the fact that man, as a species, was made possible in nature due to two great genetic and physical mutations. Brain and larynx, first, that made language, verbal communication, conservation through memory, transmission through education possible. From here rise the possibility to think with concepts and the necessity/possibility to understand in order to plan life and the satisfaction of human needs, hence to represent man's position in nature : from hence come religions, arts, philosophy, science and technology. Man is a speaking therefore representing being. Brain and hand, second, that made the production of tools, the emergence of means of production possible. This enabled the species to get on its way to controling and even changing nature, to producing more than needed, hence producing surplus value that could become accumulated into capital. The road to industrial development started there with the very first tool ever invented and transmitted in its technology. So what the book attributes to capitalism should be attributed to the emergence of the human species as a « producing species ». But Marx was also from a time before the discovery of the human psyche. So he is lost in considerations on good and evil, ethics, aesthetics and other questions of the type because he cannot know the human psyche is both dark and clear, eros and thanatos, love for others (personal and social survival) and death instinct (antisocial and jingoistic survival). But strangely enough the author of this book does not envisage the present phase of human development : the informational revolution, universal communication, globalization, the generalization of music, films, TV and even arts everywhere in society and at any time, the individual revolution of liberated - and yet to be controled, but how ? - impulses, desires, passions, etc... Istvan Meszaros probably wrote too early (1970) and too fast (just after 1968). But if we read it as a standard marxist approach of 1970, we know why the « communist experiment » failed : it negated the real historical development of humanity by rejecting the representative power of man and the explosive dimension of the liberation of individuals and individual initiative.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, universal communication, globalization, the generalization of music, films, TV and even arts everywhere in society and at any time, the individual revolution of liberated - and yet to be controled, but how ? - impulses, desires, passions, etc... Istvan Meszaros probably wrote too early (1970) and too fast (just after 1968). But if we read it as a standard marxist approach of 1970, we know why the « communist experiment » failed : it negated the real historical development of humanity by rejecting the representative power of man and the explosive dimension of the liberation of individuals and individual initiative.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R2L1Y4MIOS567I	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Just Dido Just Unjust Fate	This play is a plot of conflicting interests. The survivors of Troy, Aeneas first of all, are saved by Dido, Queen of Carthage. Dido an Aeneas fall in love by decision of Venus. Iarbas who is in love with Dido, is rejected. Anna, Dido's sister, is in love with Iarbas and sees hope in that. But the gods have other projects. Jove imposes his decision : Aeneas wust go to Italy to instal the remnants of Troy there. So Aeneas leaves. Dido then kills herself, Iarbas follows suit and Anna does the same. Marlowe is cruel with his characters and endorses the gods' tyranny entirely. There is no escape from fate. There is no hope for men and women alike. This vision of humanity as a plaything in the hands of the gods is extremely disquieting and pessimistic.<br />Dr Jacaques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R30IKUF0FETT94	0440147778	890625763	Just Above My Head	Books	5	7	11	N	N	At the end of the road...?	To review such a novel is like establishing the 3D map of a continent without a computer. It is a nearly impossible task in less than, one hundred thousand words. I will spare you that.<br /><br />The novel is in the first person and apart from two pages (548-551 in my edition that counts 557 pages) the man telling the story is Hall Montana, the elder brother of the main character Arthur Montana. The two pages are at the end of the novel and then for this very short moment Jimmy Miller, the friend and lover of Arthur Montana, is taking over. I can see two reasons why the author chose that first person story telling from cover to cover.<br /><br />The first and most important one is to be able to explore the psychology of the characters, of the narrator of course but also of the other characters by making them tell their stories or their sides of the story to the narrator. This is artificial of course, but that's the main difference with Richard Wright: events are not the main substance of the novel but the prompters of psychological reactions and exploration. Thus Hall Montana has to be the confidant of all the characters, particularly his younger brother. This is a story telling trick in many ways but it gives the novel its second characteristic.<br /><br />The book has a tremendous autobiographical dimension which is supposed to make us believe the story which at times does not correspond to Hall Montana's possible knowledge, for example Paris, though the author of the novel does know Paris like both sides of his right hand. This is the great danger of this novel and it is essential not to fall in such an easy and gaping trap.<br /><br />Any attempt at trying to say or believe that this is James Baldwin's life would be completely misguided. First of all it would destroy the enjoyment of the novel as a novel and second it would prevent us from understanding the characters as fictional characters and force us into taking them as real persons. But it is true the novel is constantly pushing us into believing or just drifting into that perversion. That makes at times the novel difficult to appreciate since we constantly have to readjust our vision; No, Hall Montana is not James Baldwin, neither can Arthur Montana be him. I will thus try to take this novel as a real novel and I will only attribute to the author the architecture of the novel and the ideology that emerges from the novel.<br /><br />James Baldwin and slavery<br /><br />The novel concerns the Blacks in America, the descendants of slaves. Yet there is not one character who is identified as an ex-slave. This is important because the novel does not speak of slavery. It exclusively speaks of the Blacks in America after the Second World War. And how the Blacks are exploited or dominated in the Korean War, then freed in the emerging Civil Rights Movement, the famous Summer March of 1963 and slightly beyond. It does not take side at all, though Arthur Montana is very active in the South, though he is from Harlem. The South of the time of segregation and the period of the white racist and criminal backlash when these whites realized the Blacks were up in vocal and mass protest and that they were going to be heard in the USA and in the world. Non-violent for sure but with a lot of psychological and social violence, along with some purely physical violence, including one case of abduction and killing on one hand and a chain gang episode on the other hand. The South is seen as a menace from beginning to end, and yet some kind of shrine where Arthur Montana wants to go on active pilgrimages to support with his gospel singing the Black communities that are peacefully protesting against segregation. But such pilgrimages have to have their human offerings and these move slightly from pure assassination by the Ku Klux Klan to official but appealable chain gang legal kidnapping. This evolution that is not really assessed gives the novel a taste of anti-climactic perspective, but we will come back to that point later.<br /><br />Black Muslims<br /><br />There is a very short passage about the Black Muslims and how these consider the Blacks have to take their own affairs in their own hands and thus conquer political power by freeing themselves from the heritage of the past. But James Baldwin only sees the universal accusation against the whites who have conquered the world, conquered God too and made it white, and set the whole non-white world, though essentially Blacks, into slavery through colonialism. These Black Muslims are the only ones, but only in two pages, to assert that the Blacks have to re-conquer God who was stolen from them by the whites. Hall Montana rejects this position in one short sentence:<br /><br />\\"Gods who could be stolen and then stolen back did not interest me at all. I wasn't raised to deal in stolen goods.\\" (322)<br /><br />We can note the very dark humor conveyed by the play on the wortds Gods-goods. That's how Hall Montana pushes aside anything he does not want to support; with a play on words, with some dark - I dare not say black - humor. That kind of black humor is constantly present in the relations among the characters, and the language is often the mirror in which you can find that humor, though situations are at times used, like the drastic image of the death of Arthur Montana, lying on his back on the floor of an underground toilet in a London pub not too far from Piccadilly Circus. This image is used from the very start of the novel to the end and we will only know what really happened at the end, and here James Baldwin cheats on the goods since the context till the very last pages makes us imagine he was the victim of some racial crime or violence, though we are surprised about London, and yet we know London pubs are not always very peaceful. But we only learn at the very end that he dies of a heart attack. This ending blows up the pretence of the narrator having gotten his facts and states of minds of the characters from them since Arthur will not be able to speak about his last trip to London and his subsequent death to any one at all. Yet apparently he has a lot to say in the novel.<br /><br />Arthur Montana, a gospel singer<br /><br />Arthur Montana is a gospel singer who will get famous in the last 14 years of his life. He starts with a quartet of four Harlem teenagers: Arthur Montana; Peanut (Alexander Teophilus Brown, was not sent to Korea because of his physical condition and ended up in Washington DC, was abducted and assassinated in the South by the Ku Klux Kan); Red (ended as a junkie after the Korean War, abandoned by his wife and two children); and Crunch (--- Hogan, Arthur's first love but who lost his love or rather the appeal of his love for Arthur in Korea and is declared \\"mad\\" by Hall Montana, though he is \\"working in a school for delinquent boys, and had one girl friend after another,\\" page 333). The quartet is the Trumpets of Zion. For a while they work along with a child preacher, Julia Miller that brings her family into the picture. That family is entirely built and working around this Julia: the mother Amy, the father Joel, the daughter Julia and the son James, aka Jimmy. Note the three J initials of the father and the children. The mother will die fast and then Julia will get out of the pulpit. The father will get crazy and will rape Julia repeatedly until she gets pregnant (from Crunch maybe, from the father probably) and he beats her into aborting. We can say at this moment Jesus is far away from these brothers and sisters. Arthur and Jimmy are trying to get together in a later period but they can't and it is by accident that Jimmy will play piano for Arthur for the first time in Florida: the accompanying pianist, Scott, from Harlem being forcefully enrolled in a chain gang in Montgomery.<br /><br />Jimmy and Arthur will establish then a collaboration that will immediately evolve into a love affair. But we must first understand what gospels orthe Gospel are for Blacks.<br /><br />\\"N[****]rs can sing gospel as no other people can because they aren't singing gospel - . . . When a n[****]r quotes the gospel, he is not quoting: he is telling you what happened to him today and what is certainly going to happen to you tomorrow. . . Our suffering is our bridge to one another. Everyone must cross this bridge, or die while he still lives - but this is not political, still less, a popular apprehension.\\" (112)<br /><br />There is no apprehension of the past only the apprehension of the present suffering and the creation of empathy with other Blacks, the audience. Gospel merges the present situation of the Blacks and the Biblical or religious reference. They re-appropriate the God who was never stolen from them but who was white from the very start, even if Semitic, and the whites only made that God of theirs the only God and confiscated his possession. By investing black present experience into this vision of God, Gospel singers make him black or of an unspecified color, hence assumed black. God becomes for them a human but dematerialized God whose presence is absolutely real within his virtuality.<br /><br />Music, the cry of life and death<br /><br />But music has something else in it and it is this something else that enables the merging of other fields into this religious discourse.<br /><br />\\".Music don't begin like a song. . . Music can get to be a song, but it starts with a cry. That's all. It might be the cry of a newborn baby, or the sound of a hog being slaughtered, or a man when they put the knife to his balls. And that sound is everywhere. People spend their whole lives trying to drown out that sound.\\" (96)<br /><br />The first cry is universal, all babies cry when they are born and ot is a call for love and nurturing. But even so, this is merged into the music because the music has a double nature:<br /><br />\\"You worry too much about the beat, but the beat comes out of the time - the space between one note and the next note. And you got to trust the time you hear - that's how you play your song.\\" (87)<br /><br />\\"Sometimes they [Arthur and Jimmy] both feel imprisoned by the song, leaping to go further than the song, or Arthur's tempo, allow: then they sweat hardest, learn most. There is always a beat beneath the beat, another music beneath the music, and beyond.\\" (540)<br /><br />\\"The song does not belong to the singer. The singer is found by the song. Ain't no singer, anywhere, ever made up a song - that is not possible. He hears something. I really believe, at the bottom of my balls, baby, that something hears him, something says, come here! And jumps on him just exactly like you jump on a piano or a saw or a violin or a drum and you make it sing the song you hear: and you love it, and you take care of it, better than you take care of yourself, can you dig it? But you don't have no mercy on it. You can't have mercy! That sound you hear, that sound you try to pitch with the utmost precision - and did you hear me? Wow! - is the sound of millions and millions and, who knows, now, listening, where life is, where is death?\\" (550)<br /><br />Music, and gospel, becomes a medium for that eternal question reverberating constantly in the consciousness and the unconsciousness of every person experiencing life that only becomes savory when death is present in the background. That's the song in the song, the beat in the beat, the tempo in the time and the time in the tempo. Then music and gospel can be the voice of the Blacks and their present suffering. But it can also be the voice of the love between Arthur and Jimmy. And Arthur uses that medium all the time to declare his love to Jimmy in public. Arthur's farewell song to Jimmy on the stage of a Paris music hall, in the absence of Jimmy himself, due to their final argument, Arthur feeling the end coming, is such a metaphor, such a public declaration:<br /><br />\\"Boy,<br />you sure took,<br />me<br />for<br />one big ride. . .<br />boy,<br />don't get too lost<br />in all I say.<br />but at the time,<br />I, really,<br />felt that way. . .<br />Lord Knows,<br />I've got to stop believing<br />in all your lies.\\" (552-553)<br /><br />This song seems to be extracted from Feelin' Alright by the English band Traffic, released in 1968 and then made world famous by Joe Cocker in 1969. The merging of gay sex in this song is of course original here in this novel. But this merging is made possible because the music is seen as a basically metaphorical medium for all kinds of human passions, experiences, empathy or compassion, suffering and joy.<br /><br /> Gay segregation<br /><br />This gay element is also typical of James Baldwin and beyond any easy identification of the author with James Miller, aka Jimmy in the book, or with Hall Montana, who had his gay sex experience in Korea (boys will be boys and men will be men and soldiers will always grown-up boys), or even Arthur Montana, gay sex and homosexuality is merged into segregation and desegregation.<br /><br />\\"These people got the gall to claim to be giving something they didn't never have the right to take away.\\" (289)<br /><br />And Arthur is feeling the same rejection for his being the \\"kid brother\\" of Crunch in Harlem as for being black everywhere, and particularly in the South, except in Paris in France.<br /><br />\\"In the split moment that the girl and the man [the caretaker and her man in Crunch's building where he has a room before going to Korea] had looked at him, Arthur had felt violated, stripped naked, spat on. It was in nothing that was said. It was in the contempt and complicity in the eyes. . . Then he wanted to run, not from Crunch exactly, but out of this eternity.\\" (251)<br /><br />James Baldwin and change<br /><br />This situation leads us to the essential dimension of the novel. It is a realistic, and yet very frozen, vision of the situation of Blacks in America in the period stretching from 1950 to the early 1970s. The main problem brought forward by James Baldwin is that black people are invisible. They are not seen in their human dimension, and at times they are not seen at all by many whites who can evacuate the \\"problem\\" that way. Blacks become incorporeal beings floating in mid air in a society that the whites see as white and nothing but white. Erase the color of black people and then there is no racial \\"problem\\" any more. That's in line with Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man. This invisibility becomes ingrained in black people.<br /><br />\\"You cannot love if you cannot be loved, you cannot see if you cannot be seen.\\" (88)<br /><br />\\"The gift will tell you if anybody loves you;, if anybody sees you - especially your father, your mother, your brother - and the gift will tell you, if you can read it, what they see.\\" (108)<br /><br />\\"It is impossible for a black man. . . not to anticipate, endlessly, disaster at the hands of his countrymen. The result is that he is always looking around him at people who do not know, or dare not know, what he is thinking, people who have been rendered incapable of seeing him.\\" (330)<br /><br />\\"All the years that we spent in and out of the South, I always wanted to say to those poor white people so busy turning themselves and their children into monsters: Look. It's not we who can't forget. You can't forget. . . You can't forget the black breasts that gave you milk: but you don't dare remember either. . . who can hate a baby? But you can: that's why you call me Tar baby. . . Tell you one thing: that God you found is a very sick dude. I'd check him out again, if I was you. I think He's laughing at you - I tell you like a friend. He's made it so that you can't see the grass or the trees or the sky or your woman or your brother or your child or me. Because you don't see me.\\" (396)<br /><br />This invisibility the Blacks have to live through all the time in white society makes them close themselves onto their community. And strangely enough that makes them unable to see themselves and one another. As we have seen with the black caretaker of Crunch's room in Harlem, she does not see Crunch and Arthur as they are defining themselves as two beautiful lovers, but she sees through them and despises them because she does not see the love between the two boys, and she has interiorized the code of moral rejection of the whites. This is the acme of this segregation for a black person, to suffer rejection and violence from another black person who knowingly or unknowingly, willfully or un-willfully, for a profit or no profit at all, becomes the instrument of white rejection, white segregation, white racism. We always find someone smaller or weaker than us and we then can bully them in a way or another, always on the basis of the norms of the dominant layer of the society.<br /><br />Is there a future in this world?<br /><br />But this general idea is not rooted in a knowledge and proper evaluation of the pros and cons of what slavery was, of what Blacks and whites were under slavery, of what is good and what is bad in every single one of us and in our community. This idea then leads James Baldwin to the impossibility to understand the evolution of society, the way things go as fast as they can, which means as fast as the people in the concerned society can go. James Baldwin does not see the positive in this evolution and he rejects desegregation because the Blacks are becoming some entertaining Sambo presence in previously entirely white surroundings, and what's more they must pay a high price to get into these previously all-white restaurant in Washington DC where they have to play the social clowns for the whites. One example is explained with Julia who made the money that saved her and Jimmy (after a phase in prostitution in New Orleans). She made a career in advertising as a model and Hall Montana is a professional of advertising and commercial communication.<br /><br />\\"We were expected to be aware, too, that the presence of blacks in advertising was a major sociological breakthrough. Was it? For our breakthroughs seemed to occur only on those levels where we were most speedily expendable and most easily manipulated. And a `breakthrough' to what? I was beginning to be wary of these breakthroughs, was not certain that I wanted a lifetime pass to Disneyland. On the other hand, here we were, and you can't have your cake and eat it, too: we would simply have to find a way to use, and survive and transcend the present breakthrough the same way we have survived so many pothers.\\" (436)<br /><br />No matter how little visible the Blacks became with advertising or the famous film \\"Guess Who is Coming to Dinner Tonight\\" (1967), it was visibility and it was the result of the 1963 conquered visibility in Washington DC. James Baldwin takes a surprising stand practically negating the evolution of the American society in this long period from 1945 to his present 1979. But at the end of the novel, though before the 14 years of full love relation with Jimmy, Arthur in Paris is having a relation with a certain Frenchman Guy Lazar, a rich but declining gay man, and Arthur likes Paris because of a strange reversal of emotion:<br /><br />\\"Nothing in Paris really reminds him of home, in spite of the disastrous French attempts to imitate the American scene. . . He has no way of understanding what they are saying, therefore, it does not matter what they are saying: in the resulting silence, he drops the guard. . . He could never have done that in New York, where all his senses were always alert for danger, or in London, which was exasperating because it spoke a foreign language which sounded, superficially, like its own. But they were saying different things in London, or they were saying the same things in a different way. His efforts to break the code exhausted him. But nothing is demanded of him in Paris. In Paris, he is practically invisible - practically, free.\\" (438)<br /><br />Paris, the land of invisibility<br /><br />There is a contradiction here in terms. In Paris he makes the people around him invisible in what they may say or mean because he does not understand their language and he transfers this invisibility he projects on them onto himself and he becomes invisible, so he says, in Paris, invisible. It is of course not true and he will be seen by Guy Lazar because he is invisible to himself. He will elope onto a few day long adventure with that French red-haired man who is looking for an exotic boyfriend after the departure of his steady Algerian friend because Algerians are having some problems in Paris at the time: a very innocuous way of speaking of one of the most ruthless colonial wars of that period that will only be overtaken in cruelty by the Vietnam war. When you are like that totally lost in an environment that does not understand you and that you cannot understand, the first one who will cross the divide will be welcome, especially if he can speak your language and you will not see the motivations of this trespasser.<br /><br />That's why in Paris, he is introduced to a black musician in some club and this black musician used to be a friend of Arthur's father and he hijacks Arthur into singing for him in the club. The musician is a fictitious Sonny Carr, a probable allusion to the drummer James Owen `Sonny' Carr, born in Dunn, North Carolina and with a career in New York, another James of course, but that is not exploited. Or is he an allusion to the blues singer Sonny Terry, born in Greensboro, Georgia? You can't know from the novel itself. Sonny Carr suggests the song Daniel Saw the Stone. Arthur does not see the metaphor of Daniel in exile in Babylon, then in the lion pit. He sticks to the stone being Jesus, hence to the most superficial meaning: that of the words in the dictionary. But he concludes the episode with a song of James Baldwin's own composition:<br /><br />\\"I'm pleased with what you've done,<br />And your race has been run<br />And I've brought you the key<br />And I've got your key here with me<br />And I praise God, I have another building,<br />Not made with hands.\\" (490)<br /><br />This is a very sad note that is supposed to announce the end, yet to come in Paris and London fourteen years later. It is sad because it is God's judgment of the artists, here Arthur and Sonny Carr. They are welcome to that other building not made with hands, hence that messianic Jerusalem promised to those who have fulfilled their mission on earth. But that mission has nothing to do with the suffering on this earth to be suffered like a curse, with discrimination to be accepted like a natural fact of life, desegregation, living together, finding a way out of the painful present, and these latter three are hardly considered, because the present will always be painful, even if some problems might seem to be solved, because new forms of suffering will always appear.<br /><br />The final dream. . . or is it nightmare?<br /><br />And that leads us to the concluding page of this book, Hall Montana's dream of Arthur's death. All the characters are there in this dream: Paul Montana, Ruth Granger Montana (Hall's wife), Florence Montana, Amy Miller, Martha (Hall's girlfriend before going to Korea), Sidney (Hall's friend turned Black Muslim and Martha's husband to be), Joel Miller, Tony Montana (Hall's son), Odessa Montana (Hall's daughter), Arthur Montana, Jimmy Miller, Julia Miller.<br /><br />\\"Florence is in the rain pouring down on the road. . . Ruth's fingers stroke my back. Arthur moves to stand beside me.<br />\\"Shall we tell them? What's up the road?\\" . . .<br />And Arthur repeats his question.<br />\\"Shall we tell them? What's up the road?\\"<br />The question torments me, like a song I once heard Arthur sing, and can't now, in my dream, for the life of me, remember. . .<br />Hurry down,<br />sunshine,<br />see what tomorrow brings. . .<br />The sun went down,<br />Tomorrow brought us / rain.<br />Then I do remember, in my dream, the beginning of a song I used to love to hear Arthur sing. Oh, my loving brother, when the world's on fire, don't you want God's bosom to be your pillow? And I say to him, in my dream, No, they'll find out what's up the road, ain't nothing up the road but us, man, and then I wake up, and my pillow is wet with tears.\\" (556-557)<br /><br />And that leads us to an open end in the present of the dream that leads to the present of the last sentence which is not in the dream any more, while the novel was all in the past.<br /><br />Time to conclude.<br /><br />The book came twenty years before the concept of Post Traumatic Slavery Syndrome/Disorder approach to slavery from the point of view of the descendants of the slaves who want to become a constructive part of this world of ours, but it is a perfect example of the disorder. We could follow every single page to show how slavery left behind, reinforced by segregation, some psychological elements that block the possibility to change, the main characteristic being the totally closed up reality in which the Blacks were trapped-and-chained by slavery and this reality developed in them, in order to survive, a defensive set of educational and behavioral features that were transmitted from mother to children, and from father to children, eventually, and that was the necessity to behave in a certain way and never to show what you may think, feel or just be. Three centuries of such forced training and taming and breaking cannot disappear in a minute. They called it seasoning and it required quite a lot of hard hot pungent hateful and despicable violence that had no excuse of any sort.<br /><br />Yet James Baldwin seems to reject to the end of the road what could be desirable in the present drenched with rain. There is thus no hope, but there is also a rejection of hope in this world except in a well secluded and protected niche that has to remain invisible to everyone outside. And that is the main characteristic of PTSlaveryS/D, the mental seclusion that produces the impossibility to assume the past and turn it into a force for the future. And that is possible because that past required from the black slaves a tremendous personal force to just survive and live and survive again before escaping to the Indians, on the underground railroad, or music and religion, Vodun or Christian.<br /><br />Any wild animal when it refuses life in a zoo or in a cage may exhibit rage at first but very often just lets itself die. Isn't that why they never enslaved, at least not for very long, the Indians because they could not live long in captivity? The force of the Blacks in slavery is absolutely proportional to the violence from the slave-owners. That force was so powerful that in spite of everything the African slaves kept their music, their polyrhythmic beat and tempo, and the beat in the beat, the tempo in the time, the time in the tempo, and so many other cadenzas within, under, beyond and through-and-through cadenzas. That is the main human heritage of the whole humanity from slavery, and I am talking here of positive heritage. The African slaves gave to the world a music it had never heard before and it is our present.<br /><br />The main defect of the novel is that it is so rich in hierarchically piled up strata that it reads very slowly, but it is worth the time and the effort, even if Arthur Montana's death on his back on the floor of an underground toilet in a pub in London is an anticlimax as for racist violence and white cruelty. It is nothing but a heart attack after an argument with his lover, his heart in a way, Jimmy Miller who may have been then uprooted out of his own heart. Beautiful romantic poetry but an anticlimax nevertheless. Is love more important than society? Is the heart more important than the mind? Is the personal blooming of a person more important than the development of social justice? Is God nothing but a pillow against brutality and evil?Or is God one of the inspirers and leaders of human progress?<br /><br />To ask the question is also to answer it.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUat makes them unable to see themselves and one another. As we have seen with the black caretaker of Crunch's room in Harlem, she does not see Crunch and Arthur as they are defining themselves as two beautiful lovers, but she sees through them and despises them because she does not see the love between the two boys, and she has interiorized the code of moral rejection of the whites. This is the acme of this segregation for a black person, to suffer rejection and violence from another black person who knowingly or unknowingly, willfully or un-willfully, for a profit or no profit at all, becomes the instrument of white rejection, white segregation, white racism. We always find someone smaller or weaker than us and we then can bully them in a way or another, always on the basis of the norms of the dominant layer of the society.<br /><br />Is there a future in this world?<br /><br />But this general idea is not rooted in a knowledge and proper evaluation of the pros and cons of what slavery was, of what Blacks and whites were under slavery, of what is good and what is bad in every single one of us and in our community. This idea then leads James Baldwin to the impossibility to understand the evolution of society, the way things go as fast as they can, which means as fast as the people in the concerned society can go. James Baldwin does not see the positive in this evolution and he rejects desegregation because the Blacks are becoming some entertaining Sambo presence in previously entirely white surroundings, and what's more they must pay a high price to get into these previously all-white restaurant in Washington DC where they have to play the social clowns for the whites. One example is explained with Julia who made the money that saved her and Jimmy (after a phase in prostitution in New Orleans). She made a career in advertising as a model and Hall Montana is a professional of advertising and commercial communication.<br /><br />\\"We were expected to be aware, too, thatthe presence of blacks in advertising was a major sociological breakthrough. Was it? For our breakthroughs seemed to occur only on those levels where we were most speedily expendable and most easily manipulated. And a `breakthrough' to what? I was beginning to be wary of these breakthroughs, was not certain that I wanted a lifetime pass to Disneyland. On the other hand, here we were, and you can't have your cake and eat it, too: we would simply have to find a way to use, and survive and transcend the present breakthrough the same way we have survived so many pothers.\\" (436)<br /><br />No matter how little visible the Blacks became with advertising or the famous film \\"Guess Who is Coming to Dinner Tonight\\" (1967), it was visibility and it was the result of the 1963 conquered visibility in Washington DC. James Baldwin takes a surprising stand practically negating the evolution of the American society in this long period from 1945 to his present 1979. But at the end of the novel, though before the 14 years of full love relation with Jimmy, Arthur in Paris is having a relation with a certain Frenchman Guy Lazar, a rich but declining gay man, and Arthur likes Paris because of a strange reversal of emotion:<br /><br />\\"Nothing in Paris really reminds him of home, in spite of the disastrous French attempts to imitate the American scene. . . He has no way of understanding what they are saying, therefore, it does not matter what they are saying: in the resulting silence, he drops the guard. . . He could never have done that in New York, where all his senses were always alert for danger, or in London, which was exasperating because it spoke a foreign language which sounded, superficially, like its own. But they were saying different things in London, or they were saying the same things in a different way. His efforts to break the code exhausted him. But nothing is demanded of him in Paris. In Paris, he is practically invisible - practically, free.\\" (438)<br /><br />Paris, the land of invisibility<br /><br />There is a contradiction here in terms. In Paris he makes the people around him invisible in what they may say or mean because he does not understand their language and he transfers this invisibility he projects on them onto himself and he becomes invisible, so he says, in Paris, invisible. It is of course not true and he will be seen by Guy Lazar because he is invisible to himself. He will elope onto a few day long adventure with that French red-haired man who is looking for an exotic boyfriend after the departure of his steady Algerian friend because Algerians are having some problems in Paris at the time: a very innocuous way of speaking of one of the most ruthless colonial wars of that period that will only be overtaken in cruelty by the Vietnam war. When you are like that totally lost in an environment that does not understand you and that you cannot understand, the first one who will cross the divide will be welcome, especially if he can speak your language and you will not see the motivations of this trespasser.<br /><br />That's why in Paris, he is introduced to a black musician in some club and this black musician used to be a friend of Arthur's father and he hijacks Arthur into singing for him in the club. The musician is a fictitious Sonny Carr, a probable allusion to the drummer James Owen `Sonny' Carr, born in Dunn, North Carolina and with a career in New York, another James of course, but that is not exploited. Or is he an allusion to the blues singer Sonny Terry, born in Greensboro, Georgia? You can't know from the novel itself. Sonny Carr suggests the song Daniel Saw the Stone. Arthur does not see the metaphor of Daniel in exile in Babylon, then in the lion pit. He sticks to the stone being Jesus, hence to the most superficial meaning: that of the words in the dictionary. But he concludes the episode with a song of James Baldwin's own composition:<br /><br />\\"I'm pleased with what you've done,<br />And your race hasbeen run<br />And I've brought you the key<br />And I've got your key here with me<br />And I praise God, I have another building,<br />Not made with hands.\\" (490)<br /><br />This is a very sad note that is supposed to announce the end, yet to come in Paris and London fourteen years later. It is sad because it is God's judgment of the artists, here Arthur and Sonny Carr. They are welcome to that other building not made with hands, hence that messianic Jerusalem promised to those who have fulfilled their mission on earth. But that mission has nothing to do with the suffering on this earth to be suffered like a curse, with discrimination to be accepted like a natural fact of life, desegregation, living together, finding a way out of the painful present, and these latter three are hardly considered, because the present will always be painful, even if some problems might seem to be solved, because new forms of suffering will always appear.<br /><br />The final dream. . . or is it nightmare?<br /><br />And that leads us to the concluding page of this book, Hall Montana's dream of Arthur's death. All the characters are there in this dream: Paul Montana, Ruth Granger Montana (Hall's wife), Florence Montana, Amy Miller, Martha (Hall's girlfriend before going to Korea), Sidney (Hall's friend turned Black Muslim and Martha's husband to be), Joel Miller, Tony Montana (Hall's son), Odessa Montana (Hall's daughter), Arthur Montana, Jimmy Miller, Julia Miller.<br /><br />\\"Florence is in the rain pouring down on the road. . . Ruth's fingers stroke my back. Arthur moves to stand beside me.<br />\\"Shall we tell them? What's up the road?\\" . . .<br />And Arthur repeats his question.<br />\\"Shall we tell them? What's up the road?\\"<br />The question torments me, like a song I once heard Arthur sing, and can't now, in my dream, for the life of me, remember. . .<br />Hurry down,<br />sunshine,<br />see what tomorrow brings. . .<br />The sun went down,<br />Tomorrow brought us / rain.<br />Then I do remember, in my dream, the beginning of a song I used to love to hear Arthur sing. Oh, my loving brother, when the world's on fire, don't you want God's bosom to be your pillow? And I say to him, in my dream, No, they'll find out what's up the road, ain't nothing up the road but us, man, and then I wake up, and my pillow is wet with tears.\\" (556-557)<br /><br />And that leads us to an open end in the present of the dream that leads to the present of the last sentence which is not in the dream any more, while the novel was all in the past.<br /><br />Time to conclude.<br /><br />The book came twenty years before the concept of Post Traumatic Slavery Syndrome/Disorder approach to slavery from the point of view of the descendants of the slaves who want to become a constructive part of this world of ours, but it is a perfect example of the disorder. We could follow every single page to show how slavery left behind, reinforced by segregation, some psychological elements that block the possibility to change, the main characteristic being the totally closed up reality in which the Blacks were trapped-and-chained by slavery and this reality developed in them, in order to survive, a defensive set of educational and behavioral features that were transmitted from mother to children, and from father to children, eventually, and that was the necessity to behave in a certain way and never to show what you may think, feel or just be. Three centuries of such forced training and taming and breaking cannot disappear in a minute. They called it seasoning and it required quite a lot of hard hot pungent hateful and despicable violence that had no excuse of any sort.<br /><br />Yet James Baldwin seems to reject to the end of the road what could be desirable in the present drenched with rain. There is thus no hope, but there is also a rejection of hope in this world except in a well secluded and protected niche that has to remain invisible to everyone outside. And that is the main characteristic of PTSlaveryS/D, the mental seclusion that produces the impossibility to assume the past and turn it into a force for the future. And that is possible because that past required from the black slaves a tremendous personal force to just survive and live and survive again before escaping to the Indians, on the underground railroad, or music and religion, Vodun or Christian.<br /><br />Any wild animal when it refuses life in a zoo or in a cage may exhibit rage at first but very often just lets itself die. Isn't that why they never enslaved, at least not for very long, the Indians because they could not live long in captivity? The force of the Blacks in slavery is absolutely proportional to the violence from the slave-owners. That force was so powerful that in spite of everything the African slaves kept their music, their polyrhythmic beat and tempo, and the beat in the beat, the tempo in the time, the time in the tempo, and so many other cadenzas within, under, beyond and through-and-through cadenzas. That is the main human heritage of the whole humanity from slavery, and I am talking here of positive heritage. The African slaves gave to the world a music it had never heard before and it is our present.<br /><br />The main defect of the novel is that it is so rich in hierarchically piled up strata that it reads very slowly, but it is worth the time and the effort, even if Arthur Montana's death on his back on the floor of an underground toilet in a pub in London is an anticlimax as for racist violence and white cruelty. It is nothing but a heart attack after an argument with his lover, his heart in a way, Jimmy Miller who may have been then uprooted out of his own heart. Beautiful romantic poetry but an anticlimax nevertheless. Is love more important than society? Is the heart more important than the mind? Is the personal blooming of a person more important than the development of social justice? Is God nothing but a pillow against brutality and evil?Or is God one of the inspirers and leaders of human progress?<br /><br />To ask the question is also to answer it.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R1SQ3RMNLZ0TJM	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Dramatic but untragic farce: Dr Faustus	This drama never reaches the level of a tragedy. Faust only signs his pact with the devil to know evanescent pleasures and aimless pointless powers. He becomes a trickster who builds a horse with straw and gets fun from mocking the Pope and supporting the German Emperor Charles V against him. He gets a glimpse of Helen, the object of the Trojan war, but about nothing else, except grapes in december and wine from anywhere. Faust is the dupe of the deal because he gets nothing serious, not even real love, from this devil who in the end gets averything : the soul, the body, the flesh, the blood, the brain, and he can even tear every limb off the body of the foolish doctor. We could think it is a tale that supports the puritan fundamentalist vision of God and the devil, yet he laughs at the Pope, systematically creates havoc in Wittenberg, Luther's homeland, and he ridicules anything sacred in the world. Is Marlowe an iconoclast, or is he the precursor of Shakespeare who deals with these spirits as if they were dreams, nothing serious, just entertaining friendly beings, or even Purcell who reduces these witches to fairies who help humans in their matrimony ? Marlowe was a child in a way and he embodies both the total lack of respect of teenagers for anything adult, and the fears of children in front of the bad dark boogeyman in the cupboard or under the bed. This play has aged tremendously.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R1VG53947P1ML2	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Edward II: how to snuff a candle under a table	This historical play is better than some other plays by Marlowe because the events it is based on are, by themselves, well built and full of suspense. But Marlowe insists on the negative side of things. He sees Edward as a perverted King who only revels in carnal pleasure with his minions. He wastes the money of the crown and irritates all the Barons and the Queen. This leads to his death. Marlowe then shows Mortimer, the Queen's lover, as a tyrant, a dictator, a criminal, an unpolitical figure, and that leads him to his fatal end. Marlowe likes gross events and bloody acts. He has all his « victims » executed on the stage and even Edward is killed in full sight of the audience in a most disgustful way in a dungeon that is the receptacle of all the rejects of Berkeley Castle, particularly from its toilets and its water closets. The only moment of epiphany is the sudden revelation of Edward III as a King of justice. But here again this new teenage King goes to some extremes and has his mother sent to the Tower of London, though, we know, she will survive thirty one years. Marlowe probably invented Elizabethan drama, but he could not - and did not have enough time to do so - bring it to the level it will reach only with Shakespeare. His language definitely is the « blank verse beast » that Bernard Shaw rejected. It flows marvellously and fluently but it has none of the poetry, beauty and embroidery that Shakespeare's will master and illustrate.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	RUWZGZRYKUBOO	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	An unreedable antisemitic Jew	An unredeemable antisemite play. The Jew, Barabas mind you (why not Judas Iscariot ?), is the arch enemy of everyone. He is ready to do anything to amass fortunes or to defend his riches. Unjustly deprived of his fortune by the christian governor of Malta, he will become a criminal Machievel. He will kill and sacrifice everyone for his vengeance, even his own daughter. Some will try to denounce him. They will die. He will sell the city and island to the Turks and thus enslave the ex-governor with whom he will deal a strike against the Turks. Unluckily he is himself tricked by the ex-governor who then captures the Turkish heir in order to obtain reparations and independence for Malta. The whole play shows that no one is good, that all human life is nothing but criminal scheming of one section of society against all the others, of Christians against Jews and against Moslems in all possible combinations. Yet the Jew of Malta is by far the worst among these wolves and he is the only one of them to be really killed in some boiling cauldron of suffering. Marlowe was an absolute pessimist about humanity that could in no way produce anything good and the Gods of men are the inspirations of all possible crimes. Marlowe likes catastrophes and no redemption. He is even more pessimistic than Terminator, since in this case some machines can learn - at least about - human feelings. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R3QTBO8YRRAKXD	042513024X	461985061	The A. B. C. Murders (A Hercule Poirot Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Poirot the magician can be tricked but by whom?	This woman is a killer in murder stories. She has no complex with Sherlock Holmes always in the wings and she is able to do things differently and yet in the tradition. The tradition here is of course the revelation of the real culprit in a conference by Hercule Poirot in the last five pages of the book. The tradition is to use Hercule Poirot's brains more than his magnifying glass. Already a difference in this similarity. But then everything  is very different, is in a definitely more modern mood. Hercule Poirot is looking for the psyche of this serial killer and the motivation he has. He follows the line of a madman on the loose and yet keeps his awareness open to facts that could lead to a completely different solution, and sure enough it is the psychology and motivation necessary for these crimes to appear logical that enables Hercule Poirot to tell the name of the killer. This is more important than real evidence which can always be collected afterwards when the mystery is cleared. In other words Agatha Christie is already in 1936 on a « profiling » line that will appear in the world as a standard method only in the 1980s in the FBI to answer the challenge of serial killers. She is in other words postmodern when everyone is nothing but premodern. She is ahead of her times and by at least one if not two generations. The story itself is fabulous in the way it is organized and told. Suspense is perfect. The mystery is dense and dark. The solution is clear and logical. There is only one difficult element : two girls, two victims have a birthday before their murders and their parents or relatives buy them silk stockings for this same reason. This is a little bit coincidental. But apart from that everything is clear, except why Mrs Malbury's daughters call the suspected criminal to warn him that the police is coming. That sounds both fishy and strange, and is definitely not explained in the story. But what a good detective story-teller Ms Agatha Christie was and still is and will still be for quite a while. In other words she is a classic in the genre.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUl is and will still be for quite a while. In other words she is a classic in the genre.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R4UBLWK75JMWN	069103656X	949576922	Faust I & II (Goethe : The Collected Works, Vol 2)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Science and Work create all riches and bring salvation	The first Faust is a marvellous romantic tragedy. Dr Faust sells his soul to the devil to be young forever and enjoy life. And he sure does. He seduces the young Gretchen and impregnates her, which is a crime for the woman in those days in Germany. She will be imprisoned because of her fornication and she will become crazy. She will refuse to elope with Dr Faust and she will die on the gallows. The play is extremely fascinating with some interludes that are devilish pageants with witches and wizards, and a direct allusion to Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream that is shifted from an entertaining fairy-dream to a wicked and perverse diabolic Sabbath-night. This first Faust has been the model for many adaptations, particularly for the opera. <BR>The second Faust is introduced by a long sequence of illusions and impersonifications of historical figures entertwined with tricks and antics performed by Dr Faust at the German Emperor's court. But this second Faust centers on Faust's love for Helen of Troy. A mystical and pure love. It turns sour when their son tries to fly like Icarus, falls to the ground and dies. He had internalized his father's dream to equal the Gods, to go against all rules of nature. This triggers the disappearance of Helen and Faust's fall. Yet Goethe redeems Faust by making him understand that his science must not be used for his sole pleasure but to govern and inspire the work of simple people and make them build up a rich country gained on the sea with dams and canals. When he thus understands that knowledge associated with work can create a real paradise on earth he is redeemed by God and accepted in Heaven after the intermission of three paternal patriarchal figures (the three judges of the old Greek mythology that greeted the dead to sort them out and send them to Hell or Heaven), the three penitent women that were at the foot of the Cross, the Holy Virgin herself, and Gretchen that had been deemed pure and innocent by God. Thus Faust announces the 19th century and the industrial revolution that will create riches from the association of science and work.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R2PDYGSKK9XZI5	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	No dramatic art in this Massacre of Paris	The situation considered in the play is great and promising. The shift from one king to a third via a second. The civil strife of some nobles against the kings in order to reinstate a noble line, the Bourbons, back on the throne with the Italian Queen Mother as an accomplice or manipulator of ill repute. The religious background of the war between the Catholics and the Huguenots, a war that is grossly excessive and absurd and that brought extreme horror in the hands of the Catholics. All that could have made a good plot and a good play. Unluckily it is as schematic as a journalese report on the situation in a people publication. There never is any depth in these men and Marlowe takes great pleasure in exhibiting all the crimes, murders, assassinations on the stage. Marlowe is the ancestor and creator of horror films. He is the model that will entrance and inspire so many in literature and the cinema. He was a success in his days because of his gross approach but he does not stand in the subsequent centuries for the same reason : the plays are shallow, the plots are simplistic, the language is bland and tasteless.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	R381510G25946U	1840221305	126572424	The Plays (Wordsworth Classics of World Literature)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	No one can save this Tamburlaine	Marlowe will never equal Shakespeare. That's absolutely banal to say so. In this double play dealing with the historically asserted conqueror, Emperor and tyrant, Timur Lenk (1336-1405), a descendant of Gengis Khan, the character could give us a great play. A lot of battles against very different worlds and peoples from Asia to Africa and Europe. All kinds of religions mixing in these countries : christians, moslems, pagans, etc. An area that was at the time the center of philosophy, poetry and science. The bloodthirsty tyrant Marlowe depicts is a caricature of what he must have been. You do not conquer vast worlds without understanding their cultures and integrating them in you. You do not conquer vast worlds by destroying all their cities and exterminating their populations. You have to put them on your side if you want to get something out of it : it is the work of simple people that creates all riches, and to last long (two generations in this case) you definitely must bring them something that entices them into some acceptance. Marlowe only depicts the bloody tyrant and at times it becomes laughable in its excess. Even his love for his « conquered » queen is made rather trite and his queen does not have any deep pangs of conscience when her own father, the King of Egypt, is brought into slavery. His killing one of his three sons because this son refuses to be a warrior is treated as if it were a trite little event. Marlowe is, in other words, superficial, and his language has no poetry. He is the B series of Shakespeare's time.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-03-06
US	50989966	RB5KPSXHIUX5L	0521294118	749780160	The Poems: Venus and Adonis, The Rape of Lucrece, The Phoenix and the Turtle, The Passionate Pilgrim (The New Cambridge Shakespeare)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Lucrece is beautiful and ethical, that's her doom !	Shakespeare is at his best in this poem. At his best as for the subject : a raped virtuous wife who cannot go over the stain and cannot even utter the name of the rapist because she does not see his crime first, hence her vengeance second, but she only sees her crime first, hence her punishment second, and she commits suicide in front of everyone. At his best in the contradictions he brings in the treatment of his subject : Lucrece is not able to understand that rape is a crime on the side of the rapist, and not a fault on the side of the victim, but, and there Shakespeare is great, Roman society, and probably English society too, at the time but also today, will not accept her explanation if she does not consider herself as absolutely guilty of the crime she was the victim of. A woman is never accepted as clean and white if she is raped, she keeps some guilt in the eye of society, be it only to have « incited » or « caused » the rape by her being enticing, beautiful and desirable. In this society, the Roman society, but also ours, the woman is always, somewhere, even if she goes to court and gets the rapist in jail, the cause of the crime, hence the one responsible, at least partly, for the crime. Shakespeare does a pretty good job at showing this unescapable dilemma for a woman. And this appears clearly in the treatment of Tarquin's banishment in exactly one concluding line. What is banishment when compared to death in mental torture ? But Shakespeare is also at his best in his poetry, in his poetical style, in his brilliant use of the language to enchant us with music, the music of words, sounds, meanings, and all other musics you can imagine and find in this poem. I will suggest everyone to study in fine details the section going from line 925 to line 1035, what I call the « time » soliloquy. It is absolutely marvellous and brilliant, and what's more, it is extremely modern, even if it is fully Renaissance. On this subject, time, the Renaissance was particularly prolix, even verbose, but Shakespeare rises over time into some eternity by the way he composes the rhythm and the harmony of this brilliant piece. It becomes timeless and should be studied by all people to finally understand that time is cruel but that life is even more cruel if we do not accept to go along and away when necessary with time. Time becomes a friend in a way, and not an enemy because it knows how to liberate you from life, suffering and useless aging when aging does not bring anything any more except torture and humiliating degrading and ever increasing inferiority, declining and vacuity.<br />Dr Jacques CIOULARDEAUularly prolix, even verbose, but Shakespeare rises over time into some eternity by the way he composes the rhythm and the harmony of this brilliant piece. It becomes timeless and should be studied by all people to finally understand that time is cruel but that life is even more cruel if we do not accept to go along and away when necessary with time. Time becomes a friend in a way, and not an enemy because it knows how to liberate you from life, suffering and useless aging when aging does not bring anything any more except torture and humiliating degrading and ever increasing inferiority, declining and vacuity.<br />Dr Jacques CIOULARDEAU	2004-01-31
US	50989966	R2BFEGY4C9FIFO	0140433775	694073899	Beowulf: Old English Edition (PENGUIN ENGLISH POETS)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	One of teh greatest English poem of all times	Beowulf is a masterpiece of English literature, the mastermind of all the authors, playwrights, and many other artists coming after it. The language is rather difficult because it is Anglosaxon. But the book gives systematic notes about the words, and only the words, of the poems. Some of these notes are vague if not faultive. One example : page 51, the word « eorl » is given as meaning « man » on line 761 et « warrior » on line 769, without any more ado. We do regret that these lexical notes are not collected into a lexicon, which would save many repetitions and make it easier to find the word one is looking for. We also regret that there are no notes about the « grammar », « morphology » or « syntax » of Anglosaxon. We thus miss a lot, for example the feminine, masculine and neuter genders, and this is absolutely essential. One example : « Beowulf » is the association of the feminine « beo » meaning « bee » and the masculine « wulf » meaning « wolf ». Yet one can, if one has a good lexicon or dictionary and a good « grammar » of Anglosaxon, get into these subtleties. And then the poem is remarkably beautiful. I am not going to insist on the mirror it is for the christianizing of the old scandinavian, germanic and probably celtic mythology. This is not commonly studied, but I would like to insist on another element : the structure of the poem. The very first part is absolutely typical of the old culture : Beowulf goes out against some monsters who have survived from a very old period, a very old race (the giants who have been locked up in some mountain by the Gods of this religion), and he conquers glory and fame. There is no « fate » in this section, or very little. Beowulf is a young « adventurer » who blazes his trail through the world and history. Then there is a long transition from this glorious age to old age and death and there a new discourse appears and builds itself in the poem : man has to assume some fate that comes from God. Man has to stand up in front of his fate, no matter what it may bring, because it is his divine dimension that demands it. This is both Christian and germanic. So Beowulf is courageous and tries to bring good living conditions to his people because that is his responsibility in front of God, be he the Christian God or Odin, or the « weird sisters » of Shakespeare, the three Norns, Urd, Vervandi and Skuld. But the last part goes beyond this rather non-defined transition. Beowulf has to fight again against a monster, this time a dragon. This fight is Christian in many ways because the dragon is a reference to the « Book of Revelations », or Daniel's dragon Bel. It is Christian because Beowulf will give the order to bury forever the hoard of this dragon for two reasons : men are not supposed to be greedy any more, and this hoard comes from very old periods of human history and represents the culture of these old centuries. Greed is a capital sin and these old centuries have to be rejected, along with their culture and religion. But, yet, Beowulf is a man who carries the culture of past ages and his burial is typically that of a hero of the past : the pyre, the cremation, though not with a woman, wife or servant or slave, or any other human being who would sacrifice him/herself or be sacrificed to the dead man ; the twelve children going around the tomb represent the twelve rune, Eoh or Eihwaz, the yew tree, a symbol of death in germanic culture, a symbol of Odin's final battle, the Ragnarok, the end of the world, brought down by a general war among all human races and gods alike, with maybe the promise of a regeneration. This death is a tremendous mixing of Christian and Germanic beliefs, though this death is christianized in its perspective : to bring peace to the world, to reject greed, to look for a regeneration of the soul, to believe that man can improve. And yet it is the negation of the « Thing » political system of this culture : the king, who should beelected by the people, is here designated if not appointed by the dying king, Beowulf, in the face of death and God. This is in a way a justification of God-anointed kingship, hence the shift from the old germanic « Thing » democracy to a feudal God-appointed kingship. That poem is definitely one of the most powerful and important poems of English culture. It should be studied in depth by all students or scholars who want to understand anything about the English mind ; even today and probably tomorrow.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUelected by the people, is here designated if not appointed by the dying king, Beowulf, in the face of death and God. This is in a way a justification of God-anointed kingship, hence the shift from the old germanic « Thing » democracy to a feudal God-appointed kingship. That poem is definitely one of the most powerful and important poems of English culture. It should be studied in depth by all students or scholars who want to understand anything about the English mind ; even today and probably tomorrow.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-21
US	50989966	R238Y6XUQDUG04	0393974065	624225036	Beowulf: A Prose Translation (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	A mastermind masterpiece in English poetry	A very useful book on a cult poem in English literature, maybe the founding poem of English literature. The translation of the Anglosaxon text is altogether good because nearly word for word. Yet it contains some imperfections, or some untranslatable - and improperly rendered - elements. For example the text contains at least thirteen words to speak of the sword, without counting developed metaphors or descriptions. It is of course impossible to translate such lexical richness. But it is a sign of this iron-age civilization bent to fighting with this sword, among other equipment. It shows the great symbolical value of the sword in this culture before the arrival of christianity, and it will survive after the conversion of these peoples to this new religion. This text also represents the christianizing of the old mythology or religion of scandinavion, germanic and probably celtic peoples. Hence the All Father (Odin) of this culture, becomes in the text « Father all-ruling » (section 4), « All-ruler » (section 19), « Ruler of Men » (section 24), « Ruler of Glory » (section 25), « wise Lord » (section 26), « the Ruler ... everlasting Lord » (section 33), and then a standard « God » several times. This chritianizing of an old religion is an essential aim of this poetry and it is done with great care. For example again, the twelve children that pay homage to Beowulf after his being cremated, are a reference to the twelve apostles, the twelve doors of the messianic Jerusalem, the twelve layers of gems in the wall of the messianic Jerusalem, all references to the Bible. But twelve is also the runic letter Eoh or Eihwaz, representing the yew tree, a symbol of death in many ways, and even of the « Ragnarok », the end of the world, the great hunt and war among all living beings, men and gods alike, that will bring the world down, and maybe its regeneration afterwards. Here the christian context moves this regeneration towards that of the soul after death and eventually after the second coming, Doomsday. If we study this poem from this symbolical point of view, with all the cross-references we can imagine and find, we have a masterpiece that spans centuries of old culture and religion and opens up on centuries of a new culture and religion. It is the passageway between two spiritual worlds. It would be very interesting to compare the dragon of the « Book of Revelations » and the dragon that finally kills Beowulf though he is also killed by Beowulf simultaneously. We have to remember that Shakespeare was extremely learned about these cultural facts and that the three « Weird Sisters » in Macbeth are his modern version of the three Norns, Urd, Vervandi and Skuld, who govern our lives and our fate. And what's more « weird » comes from the word « wyrd » that means « fate » in Beowulf, that is fate in Odin's mythology, that is the twenty-fifth rune, and the vision of Beowulf's fate in this poem is very scandinavian, germanic : you do not fight against fate, you assume your fate and stand up to it, even if it means your death. A man in this culture is standing up in front of fate not to oppose it but to live or die upright and assuming anything that may come. No submission to death. No submission in life. One must live and die on one's feet, facing the future, one's weapons in one's hands, believing that one will be something beyond any challenge if one can say : « I was walking tall in the face of life and death ». This poem is a lesson of courage and stamina, as well as of our limits in front of the personal, social, natural, historical or cosmic perspectives we have to face. Some of the collected articles after the text are very enlightening, for example J.R.R. Tolkien's.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUventually after the second coming, Doomsday. If we study this poem from this symbolical point of view, with all the cross-references we can imagine and find, we have a masterpiece that spans centuries of old culture and religion and opens up on centuries of a new culture and religion. It is the passageway between two spiritual worlds. It would be very interesting to compare the dragon of the « Book of Revelations » and the dragon that finally kills Beowulf though he is also killed by Beowulf simultaneously. We have to remember that Shakespeare was extremely learned about these cultural facts and that the three « Weird Sisters » in Macbeth are his modern version of the three Norns, Urd, Vervandi and Skuld, who govern our lives and our fate. And what's more « weird » comes from the word « wyrd » that means « fate » in Beowulf, that is fate in Odin's mythology, that is the twenty-fifth rune, and the vision of Beowulf's fate in this poem is very scandinavian, germanic : you do not fight against fate, you assume your fate and stand up to it, even if it means your death. A man in this culture is standing up in front of fate not to oppose it but to live or die upright and assuming anything that may come. No submission to death. No submission in life. One must live and die on one's feet, facing the future, one's weapons in one's hands, believing that one will be something beyond any challenge if one can say : « I was walking tall in the face of life and death ». This poem is a lesson of courage and stamina, as well as of our limits in front of the personal, social, natural, historical or cosmic perspectives we have to face. Some of the collected articles after the text are very enlightening, for example J.R.R. Tolkien's.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-21
US	50989966	R2C4M2RQKXNMCI	0520230027	36398935	The Madonna of the Future: Essays in a Pluralistic Art World	Books	4	3	12	N	Y	He missed the communicational society of ours	This book is a collection of articles and essays, most of which must have been published in The Nation, for which Danto is an art critic. They cannot and will not reveal any structured and clearly defined approach of art. They are an impressionistic progress through Danto's own writings. But Danto ignores anything that does not go his way. He ignores Bosch who is the negation of his « beauty » definition of Renaissance art. He ignores all those who deal with « ugly » subjects, even Goya and his drawings about the horror of war and many other subjects. He ignores television and video art, directly on these media (there is one instance in this book of the use of video art in a museum presentation : that is not television and video art, that is the use of video and television technology within the museum). He even relegates video and television art in the « demotic » field, that is to say art for the people, and this approach, borrowed from Hegel, is absolutely condescendent towards the people : people can only suck on the television pacifier because they are not able to understand and enter the sphere of real art. Danto is an aristocrat, like all art critics. He thus ignores the audience of art, the people who are bombarded with artistic forms everyday in the supermarkets, in films, on TV, and in all kinds of mediatic channels. Danto is a typical university professor turned into an art critic and who advocates and illustrates the dominant vision that art is IN the artist, IN the official art circulating system, IN the critic's analysis of it. I dream of a real republic of arts, arts FOR the people, WITH the people and BY the people. Not a submission of artists to the « uneducated » people but a constant permanent intercourse (and this implies exchange, and personal - even sexually and emotionally motivated - connection) between the artists and the wide audience that is bombarded with artistic productions. When I read Danto I think of what Spiro Agnew said about « ephete intellectuals ». Agnew was not a very kosher and clean character but he definitely had one point here : what is important in art is the effect it has on the widest audience possible through the various media that use artistic concepts and constructs to be effective. What I am interested in is not the self-satisfied belly-button titillation of artists or art critics but the real effect art forms have on people in general through channels that Danto does not even know, because he is totally locked up in his artistic ghetto. It's a shame because some of his ideas are interesting, orginal and even explosive. But he does not even know about it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUt « ephete intellectuals ». Agnew was not a very kosher and clean character but he definitely had one point here : what is important in art is the effect it has on the widest audience possible through the various media that use artistic concepts and constructs to be effective. What I am interested in is not the self-satisfied belly-button titillation of artists or art critics but the real effect art forms have on people in general through channels that Danto does not even know, because he is totally locked up in his artistic ghetto. It's a shame because some of his ideas are interesting, orginal and even explosive. But he does not even know about it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-19
US	50989966	RS4XTE6YXYS0J	0812695402	451063356	The Abuse of Beauty: Aesthetics and the Concept of Art (The Paul Carus Lectures Series 21)	Books	4	22	38	N	Y	Clearly out of everyday art practices among the "people"	This book is a collection of articles and essays, most of which must have been published in The Nation, for which Danto is an art critic. They cannot and will not reveal any structured and clearly defined approach of art. They are an impressionistic progress through Danto's own writings. But Danto ignores anything that does not go his way. He ignores Bosch who is the negation of his « beauty » definition of Renaissance art.<br /><br />He ignores all those who deal with « ugly » subjects, even Goya and his drawings about the horror of war and many other subjects. He ignores television and video art, directly on these media (there is one instance in this book of the use of video art in a museum presentation : that is not television and video art, that is the use of video and television technology within the museum).<br /><br />He even relegates video and television art in the « demotic » field, that is to say art for the people, and this approach, borrowed from Hegel, is absolutely condescendent towards the people : people can only suck on the television pacifier because they are not able to understand and enter the sphere of real art. Danto is an aristocrat, like all art critics. He thus ignores the audience of art, the people who are bombarded with artistic forms everyday in the supermarkets, in films, on TV, and in all kinds of mediatic channels.<br /><br />Danto is a typical university professor turned into an art critic and who advocates and illustrates the dominant vision that art is IN the artist, IN the official art circulating system, IN the critic's analysis of it. I dream of a real republic of arts, arts FOR the people, WITH the people and BY the people. Not a submission of artists to the « uneducated » people but a constant permanent intercourse (and this implies exchange, and personal - even sexually and emotionally motivated - connection) between the artists and the wide audience that is bombarded with artistic productions.<br /><br />When I read Danto I think of what Spiro Agnew said about « effete intellectuals ». Agnew was not a very kosher and clean character but he definitely had one point here : what is important in art is the effect it has on the widest audience possible through the various media that use artistic concepts and constructs to be effective. What I am interested in is not the self-satisfied belly-button titillation of artists or art critics but the real effect art forms have on people in general through channels that Danto does not even know, because he is totally locked up in his artistic ghetto.<br /><br />It's a shame because some of his ideas are interesting, original and even explosive. But he does not even know about it.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUDanto I think of what Spiro Agnew said about « effete intellectuals ». Agnew was not a very kosher and clean character but he definitely had one point here : what is important in art is the effect it has on the widest audience possible through the various media that use artistic concepts and constructs to be effective. What I am interested in is not the self-satisfied belly-button titillation of artists or art critics but the real effect art forms have on people in general through channels that Danto does not even know, because he is totally locked up in his artistic ghetto.<br /><br />It's a shame because some of his ideas are interesting, original and even explosive. But he does not even know about it.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-19
US	50989966	RWFHUES1N1SU	0691002991	99316659	After the End of Art	Books	4	13	22	N	Y	A pale book about the pale of history in art	This is an essential book but definitely pass&eacute;. It is hard to follow and it is hard to get clear ideas from it because it is extremely digressive. His concept of « the end of art » is based on the idea that « art » is a concept that appeared around 1400 and died around 1963. The very idea of this concept is absurd, and he knows it, because artistic practices existed before 1400 and still exist, after 1963. We have to get rid of this concept of « art » to go back to concrete artistic practices. Arts, but also philosophy, religion or science are representations of the world, of man, of the relations between the two. And these representations are contradictory, coming from a person who is itself contradictory in a world that is contradictory. In other words all human representations are a bunch of hierarchised end intertwined contradictions. Art is reduced by Danto to « painting ». This is in itself absurd because painting cannot be cut from all other artistic practices, from all other media that convey human representations. Art must be all inclusive. Art is part of a whole, of a multimedia vision, expression, representation. Danto does not take into account the great « moments » of history when a change in one technical field transformed the world of « art » (multimedia, multiart, multigenre artistic practices). First the invention of writing that enabled an easy conservation and transmission of written representations : philosophy, literature, religion, etc. Second the invention of the printing press that killed the art of illuminations, created the art of prints, etc, and spread the possibility for individuals to appropriate a work of art. Third the invention of theaters, hence of plays, operas,and the development of concerts. Note theaters were invented by the Greeks a long time ago and reappeared in the Western world only with the Renaissance. Arts shifted from churches (open to all) to the chateaus (open to a few) and then to the theaters (open to those who could afford it). This will ultimately lead to the museum and the teaching of arts (fine arts, music, literature, poetry, etc) in the schools. Danto never takes into account this institutionalization of art that shifted from a religious pedagogical representation (in the Middle Ages or in Africa and some other countries and continents) to institutions that had the mission to preserve and teach what artistic productions they considered as acceptable. Fourth photography and the cinema (plus the radio and television) : the emergence of a communicational society, and Danto seems to ignore that Marshall MacLuhan is THE master analyzer of this communicational society. Fifth the computer and the Internet that produce today the all-inclusive communicational society. Sixth the evolution of commercial practices in a consumer's society where packaging, advertising and all kinds of applied arts become the commercial necessity for corporations of any type to be competitive on the market. This might have led Danto to understanding that over the last five centuries a new society has emerged : an all-inclusive multi-you-name-it-you-have-it communicational society in which anything static is becoming dead. Hence we have to move, we are moving towards a dynamic performing artistic life in which all arts have to mix because they all mix in everyday life (music, visual and dramatic shows, films, and so on, visual environment and universal packaging). Art is then going back to what it was but on a new universal scale : mixed arts in public places like churches or market places, but without any limitation and without the obvious ideological pedagogical objective of the old days. Have we entered an era of universal artistic practices for everyone ? We may think so, and we have to study in details the obstacles and the limitations on that road, as well as the opposition between consuming and creating, between professional creation and amateur practices, between works that open up doors and have a future and works that are just following a trend - if not a fashion - or even going back to an old practice.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUdoors and have a future and works that are just following a trend - if not a fashion - or even going back to an old practice.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-12
US	50989966	R1FAP5O6CCKEV6	0684804433	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Impressionistic approach of acaste society	The story of a family in the American Switzerland at the frontier of the South, close to the Mississippi. They start when the city is just a small village and they grow - over two generations - along with the city, Altamont. The book gives us a very good vision of social hierarchization, a « caste » system, with seven castes. First the Episcolians who have the highest social eminence. Then the Presbyterians who are less fashionable but solidly decent. Third the Methodists who are the middle group between vulgarity and decorum. Fourth the Baptists who are the most populous and common. Then we have three castes of outcast people. The « negroes » or Blacks who are nothing but « dogs walking on two legs ». Then the Jews who are a perpetually chased and hunted group. Finally the Pigtail Alley white-headed, white-haired and white-faced people. Those seem to be rejected even more than the previous two groups. This caste system is based on two scales of « values ». First religious affiliation among white Americans. Then a « racial » rejection  based on the color of the skin (blacks), the non-christian religion (jews), the color of the hair and skin (white, in fact what could be « poor whites » who are not even decent enough to live up to their race). The members of the second generation are followed very carefully. And that is where the book has a real problem. We constantly jump from a descriptive vignette to a psychological portrait, always at a determined moment, so that we cannot in any way have a fair idea of the plot, the events, the way they are stringed together, nor of the real psychology of any character, because, along the pages, we have quite many psychological vignettes of one character, and not two of these vignettes are comparable or equivalent. The writing is perfectly impressionistic and we get lost in its meandering among successive touches. This is a shortcoming because we do not really enter a « novel », but rather a slide-show where each slide would be a vignette, but with no unifying commentary. The end is pathetic because it shows how the children are fighting to put their hands on their shares of the father who is going to die's estate. Eugene, the last born, stands over the m&eacute;l&eacute;e because he is going away and does not want to come back. He is going to Harvard to finish his university studies. And there appears the long-dead Ben, his brother, who makes him realize that anyone has to sever the chain to the family in order to be, to be oneself, to be free and oneself in one's own world and on one's own feet.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUlide would be a vignette, but with no unifying commentary. The end is pathetic because it shows how the children are fighting to put their hands on their shares of the father who is going to die's estate. Eugene, the last born, stands over the mélée because he is going away and does not want to come back. He is going to Harvard to finish his university studies. And there appears the long-dead Ben, his brother, who makes him realize that anyone has to sever the chain to the family in order to be, to be oneself, to be free and oneself in one's own world and on one's own feet.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-12
US	50989966	R6UYOY1345J9W	1413705588	344350819	Poems From My Bleeding Heart	Books	4	22	27	N	N	My heart's oath is to love you, and I mean it David	Some will say he is not T.S. Eliot, and yet. Some will say he is not Walt Whitman, and yet. Some will say he is not Allan Ginsberg, and yet. Do we know who is going to be the T.S. Eliot, the Walt Whitman or the Allan Ginsberg of this 21st century ? Not I, not me, not myself, and that makes three. And yet I like his poems. They are easy to read and yet somewhat enigmatic. They speak of horrible events in our life, known as AIDS or DEATH, and yet they are full of light, even the dark light of the night, or « the hours of the moon » as he calls it. And yet I prefer the night when there is no moon. He speaks of LOVE and seems to like it, though his girlfriend should rince her hair more when she washes it to avoid « its shampoo scents », though he likes them. We can imagine him going around and sniffing on shampoo all day long. After all some sniff glue. Funny. And not ah ah. He drinks beer, but it has to be cheap beer because the only memory he keeps of it is the fluid flow of exhaust he gets out of it. I prefer a beer that I can remember because of its taste, its bitterness, its fleshy body and its bodily aroma. But well, some people in the world are deprived of Belgian, northern English or Irish beers. He loves anecdotes, and most of them have to do with love - or is it sex ? - and they cover the whole spectrum/spectra of possibilities one could imagine. This is not politically correct, but sexually it is definitely enticing, even if all that is presided over by the « Priestesses of promiscuity ». Poetry has not reached, and will never reach, what Arthur C. Danto has selfrighteously called the « end of art », quite wrongly indeed. Poetry that has to do with words, everchanging words in an everchanging society, will never come to an end, except if people, or should I say men and women, and particularly children, all became deaf and dumb, mute and silent. This, luckily will never happen, and David Rehak is like a light in a storm that tells us there is someone living there, overthere and beyond that can read since he needs a light. I have many questions to ask and I would like to hear David Rehak reading his own poetry. Is he that sure there is a difference, at least the difference he states, between a Catholic, a Protestant, a Eunuch or a Teacher ? They all sound to me to be particularly twisted and, to use his language « f**ked up » (sorry, in French in the text) by the accidents of life. Read it, you will enjoy it, I'm sure.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUiving there, overthere and beyond that can read since he needs a light. I have many questions to ask and I would like to hear David Rehak reading his own poetry. Is he that sure there is a difference, at least the difference he states, between a Catholic, a Protestant, a Eunuch or a Teacher ? They all sound to me to be particularly twisted and, to use his language « f**ked up » (sorry, in French in the text) by the accidents of life. Read it, you will enjoy it, I'm sure.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-11
US	50989966	R8MNQ8I7OM53Z	0141439491	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A bleak vision of human future	I am rather disappointed by the book that definitely is a classic. Lilliput is just another image of monarchy, but in no way different from what Swift knew. The criticism comes from the scale of the people who are extremely small. Brogdingnag does not change this approach, only the scale of the people who are extremely big, though in this case there is a direct criticism of the exploitation the « grotesque » Gulliver is the object of. Laputa, Balnibarbi and Luggnagg show a strange floating saucer in a kingdom dominated by unpractical scientists who try to do everything upside down. It is a satire of scientists in general who are so little concerned by the welfare of the community that they can ruin just for the sake of implementing their hypotheses. Glubbdubdrib is funnier because it enables Gulliver to meet all kinds of people from the past and this leads to remarks about philosophers or politicians or generals that show how small and little and even tiny they were. Japan only shows the extreme anti-christian policy that can be reached there and the extreme self-centeredness of the Dutch, which is probably a criticism of the crown in England. But the last voyage to the country of the Houyhnhnms is by far the best because here we reach both a severe criticism of the human race reduced to its animal instincts and behaviors, and a utopian society in which evil does not exist because it cannot even be conceived, because it is totally out of reach for these kind reasoning and reasonable horses. And yet Gulliver is expelled because he is a Yahoo, no matter what, and the natural reason of these dominant horses leads to rejection, after having found in Gulliver's explanations a solution to get rid of the Yahoo by sterilizing them into extinction, just the way men do with horses in European countries, just a little bit more systematically. This leads to the idea that genocide and ethnic cleansing is a natural attitude, an attitude that goes along with natural reason that says that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swift's times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type. We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people. Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUys that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swift's times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type. We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people. Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-06
US	50989966	R1WMA1EC5X4LQP	0393957241	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	3	13	N	N	The model to a whole literary genre in England	I am rather disappointed by the book that definitely is a classic. Lilliput is just another image of monarchy, but in no way different from what Swift knew. The criticism comes from the scale of the people who are extremely small. Brogdingnag does not change this approach, only the scale of the people who are extremely big, though in this case there is a direct criticism of the exploitation the « grotesque » Gulliver is the object of.<br /><br />Laputa, Balnibarbi and Luggnagg show a strange floating saucer in a kingdom dominated by unpractical scientists who try to do everything upside down. It is a satire of scientists in general who are so little concerned by the welfare of the community that they can ruin just for the sake of implementing their hypotheses.<br /><br />Glubbdubdrib is funnier because it enables Gulliver to meet all kinds of people from the past and this leads to remarks about philosophers or politicians or generals that show how small and little and even tiny they were. Japan only shows the extreme anti-christian policy that can be reached there and the extreme self-centeredness of the Dutch, which is probably a criticism of the crown in England.<br /><br />But the last voyage to the country of the Houyhnhnms is by far the best because here we reach both a severe criticism of the human race reduced to its animal instincts and behaviors, and a utopian society in which evil does not exist because it cannot even be conceived, because it is totally out of reach for these kind reasoning and reasonable horses.<br /><br />And yet Gulliver is expelled because he is a Yahoo, no matter what, and the natural reason of these dominant horses leads to rejection, after having found in Gulliver's explanations a solution to get rid of the Yahoo by sterilizing them into extinction, just the way men do with horses in European countries, just a little bit more systematically.<br /><br />This leads to the idea that genocide and ethnic cleansing is a natural attitude, an attitude that goes along with natural reason that says that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swift's times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type.<br /><br />We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people.<br /><br />Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.<br /><br />To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUan attitude that goes along with natural reason that says that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swift's times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type.<br /><br />We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people.<br /><br />Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.<br /><br />To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-06
US	50989966	R20DOY8E9BB7TN	0451527321	363288838	Gulliver's Travels (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Is ethnic cleansing justified by natural reason?	I am rather disappointed by the book that definitely is a classic. Lilliput is just another image of monarchy, but in no way different from what Swift knew. The criticism comes from the scale of the people who are extremely small. Brogdingnag does not change this approach, only the scale of the people who are extremely big, though in this case there is a direct criticism of the exploitation the « grotesque » Gulliver is the object of. Laputa, Balnibarbi and Luggnagg show a strange floating saucer in a kingdom dominated by unpractical scientists who try to do everything upside down. It is a satire of scientists in general who are so little concerned by the welfare of the community that they can ruin just for the sake of implementing their hypotheses. Glubbdubdrib is funnier because it enables Gulliver to meet all kinds of people from the past and this leads to remarks about philosophers or politicians or generals that show how small and little and even tiny they were. Japan only shows the extreme anti-christian policy that can be reached there and the extreme self-centeredness of the Dutch, which is probably a criticism of the crown in England. But the last voyage to the country of the Houyhnhnms is by far the best because here we reach both a severe criticism of the human race reduced to its animal instincts and behaviors, and a utopian society in which evil does not exist because it cannot even be conceived, because it is totally out of reach for these kind reasoning and reasonable horses. And yet Gulliver is expelled because he is a Yahoo, no matter what, and the natural reason of these dominant horses leads to rejection, after having found in Gullivers explanations a solution to get rid of the Yahoo by sterilizing them into extinction, just the way men do with horses in European countries, just a little bit more systematically. This leads to the idea that genocide and ethnic cleansing is a natural attitude, an attitude that goes along with natural reason that says that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swifts times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type. We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people. Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUys that the species standing in the way of reason have to be exterminated. But the book never reaches that level of thinking, since Swift could not know about such policies that will flourish in later centuries, and yet the Irish occupation should lead him to some idea of what such a principle can lead to. Thus at a second level of reading we find a criticism of « natural reason » though it is not fully expressed and developed. After all it is that « natural reason » that led, already in Swifts times, to the genocide of Indians in America : they were not human, they were attributed all kinds of shortcomings like aggressivity, the love of war, the lack of cleanliness, a strong stench, and many other elements of the type. We can even note that beyond the genocide, the sterilisation policy will be implemented, but not on males, rather on females, and this in some US states up to the 1950s and maybe the 1960s. And this policy initiated by the Scandinavians in the early 20th century (and it was to last at least fifty or sixty decades) was to be systematically used against physically or psychologically impaired people. Hitler will follow that model, pushing it one bit further. In a way the book becomes then some vision of the future. This book hence is a prefiguration of many other books on the subject, such as « The time Machine », « Brave New World », « Animal Farm », etc. This book seems to be the archetype of a literary genre in English literature, and of course the archetype of many films dealing with the same subject, particularly extraterrestrials.To conclude I will say that such a book is definitely not for children even if it is often assigned to young children in some schools.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2004-01-06
US	50989966	R1YI82OTBITE3U	0140157379	446962747	Haroun and the Sea of Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The dark forces of humanity are in our own political tales	This story is by far not for children, at least not only and not too young. It is a fable about the whole world in general and the Indian Ocean world in particular and the systematic split of it or them in two hostile camps in a time (1990) when there was not the slightest idea that humanity could get over that division. The Soviet Union was dissolving and the Eastern European block was falling apart and yet the world was still seen as split in two, and 9/11 was going to perpetuate this dual vision with wars against the camp of darkness by and from the camp of light, wars that might have been slowed down only when the side of light came under the authority of a man of color. As Fidel Castro is supposed to have said, Cuba will be recognized by the USA only when the US President will be black and the Pope South American. He is supposed to have cast the dice of this prediction in the 1970s, in Prehistory in other words.<br /><br />The reason of the discrepancy we could see in the dissolving of the Soviet Union and yet the survival of the dual vision of the world is that it is not based on that macro-political vision but on a direct local political vision, the Indian subcontinent, and also on the general ideology conveyed by two cultures in this sub-continent, Islam first of all and Hinduism secondly. What’s more it is an ideological vision that was reinforced by centuries of colonialism and even more centuries of Indian Ocean slavery trade. We have to note here that Admiral Zheng He from China when he travelled far and wide in the Indian Ocean represented a triple vision with the famous trilingual stone tablet brought to Galle at the beginning of the fifteen century: three languages Chinese, Tamil and Iranian; three religions Buddhism, Hinduism and Islam.<br /><br />When the Portuguese, then the Dutch, then the English and the French came they all brought the Christian vision that divided the world in two: the Christians versus the others in an undifferentiated whole mixing together “paganism” (what an ugly word), Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam and some more even. We must keep in mind that the Christian Trinity is in fact one and only one with one voice, one spirit, one word, one God, one everything they may think of, on heaven and one hell, which makes two worlds, one heaven of divine light and one hell of permanent night and darkness. There is no duality in Christianity, on the divine side at least, and there is only an artificial trinity unified in one non-dividable God.<br /><br />The whole story is thus based on dual oppositions starting with the storyteller Rashid Khalifa and his wife. Haroun Khalifa, their son, is very fast made the second half of the father by the mother Soraya Khalifa falling an easy prey of the next door neighbor the clerk Sengupta abandoning his own wife. That will cause the breakdown of the storyteller who will lose his story telling ability. And that will happen when he is engaged in some political campaigning to support one candidate against another. The first meeting goes bad, silent, khattam-shud. The second meeting could have been just as bad if Haroun had not taken over the business of his mute father.<br /><br />They end up on planet Kahani where the sea of stories is residing and developing. But this planet is cut in two because it is immobile, like our Moon, with one half in constant daylight and the other in constant night, with the wardens of the sea of stories in the daylight half and the enemies of the sea of stories in the night-dark half. This night-dark half is dominated by a certain Khattam-Shud who is double, him and his shadow (that reminds me the famous Genesis: “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. 2 Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.” Genesis 1:1-2), and who imposes the cult of the idol Bezaban, the god without a tongue dedicated to total silence and no speaking. The only possibility of communication they have is some sign language, Abhinaya, the language of gestures borrowed from the classical Indian dance tradition. And it seems it is clandestine, some kind of resistance.<br /><br />This division is of course representative of the division between Islam (represented in the subcontinent by Pakistan, but also close at hand by Iran and Saudi Arabia) and its Shariah law that admits only one meaning to the Quran and that admits only one systematic behavior that rejects all kinds of pleasures, satisfactions and communication. At the time of this book even television was not exactly favored, except as a tool of propaganda. On the other side it is more an Indian, Hindu vision of the joyful satisfaction of all desires and needs, even the most corporal ones. The book remains discreet about these corporal needs, though Soraya Khalifa and the neighbor Oneeta are quite clear about their needs.<br /><br />What is interesting is that this division has one stake, the sea of stories, the storytelling practice of the Indian Hindu tradition against the Islamic approach for which there is only one story, the Quran. Of course this is a negation of the old tradition of the Arabian Nights, that is never alluded to as Arabian, but as the one thousand and one tales, hence more in its Iranian heritage. That is the only moment when the dual world this story refers to is slightly warped since the Iranian and Arabian tradition of the one thousand and one nights, nights mind you, is on the side of the storytelling Hindus. Nothing is ever that simple in the world, especially when you consider the author is a Muslim and the famous Sinbad the Sailor story leads Sinbad across one ocean to many countries that are in fact islands in the Indian Ocean and India itself.<br /><br />But does this story have a meaning?<br /><br />Of course it does. It means that when you divide the world in two there is a good side and a bad side, a side made of light and a side made of night. But this night side of reality is a fake world because it is only made with congealed frozen darkness and it dissolves into water as soon as you bring some light into it. The side of the night can be easily defeated in the best of all ways: transformed into a world of light by providing it with the light of the sun. That’s definitely the result of the experience of 1989 and subsequent years: the dissolution of the Soviet Empire based on a tall tale about communism and absolute equality among everyone: only one face, only one head, only one haircut, only one style of shoes or ties, only one story be it the little red book of Chairman Mao or the Communist Manifesto of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin and a few other Walter Ulbricht’s, since equality means identical for these limited minds. And that means that what Salman Rushdie was going through at the time, the death penalty edicted by some imams in Iran and Pakistan, could be defeated and these dark forces of intellectual darkness could be brought to light one day and to discovering the sun shines for everyone. That also means that the conflict between India and Pakistan can be thought as limited in time and one day the twilight zone of Kashmir will be opened to full light.<br /><br />This optimistic ideology is a real pleasure of course, even if it is slightly simpleminded in its vain division of the world into two blocks, two zones, two worlds, one good and one bad. Nothing is ever like that and that simple. We must keep in mind that black holes are made of antimatter but all that we call matter and the cosmos comes from nothing but a big bang in an enormous black hole of anti-matter. Don’t ask me where this anti-matter comes from. No one knows, particularly not those like Stephen Hawking who advocate the Big Bang Theory.<br /><br />I am sure young children would enjoy the story if it were told to them, teenagers up to 14 might enjoy reading it. But beyond you have to be a lot more mature and adult to appreciate the real stakes behind the d&eacute;cor of the tale.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUit is only made with congealed frozen darkness and it dissolves into water as soon as you bring some light into it. The side of the night can be easily defeated in the best of all ways: transformed into a world of light by providing it with the light of the sun. That’s definitely the result of the experience of 1989 and subsequent years: the dissolution of the Soviet Empire based on a tall tale about communism and absolute equality among everyone: only one face, only one head, only one haircut, only one style of shoes or ties, only one story be it the little red book of Chairman Mao or the Communist Manifesto of Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin and a few other Walter Ulbricht’s, since equality means identical for these limited minds. And that means that what Salman Rushdie was going through at the time, the death penalty edicted by some imams in Iran and Pakistan, could be defeated and these dark forces of intellectual darkness could be brought to light one day and to discovering the sun shines for everyone. That also means that the conflict between India and Pakistan can be thought as limited in time and one day the twilight zone of Kashmir will be opened to full light.   This optimistic ideology is a real pleasure of course, even if it is slightly simpleminded in its vain division of the world into two blocks, two zones, two worlds, one good and one bad. Nothing is ever like that and that simple. We must keep in mind that black holes are made of antimatter but all that we call matter and the cosmos comes from nothing but a big bang in an enormous black hole of anti-matter. Don’t ask me where this anti-matter comes from. No one knows, particularly not those like Stephen Hawking who advocate the Big Bang Theory.   I am sure young children would enjoy the story if it were told to them, teenagers up to 14 might enjoy reading it. But beyond you have to be a lot more mature and adult to appreciate the real stakes behind the décor of the tale.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-12-18
US	50989966	RFE4S158TDARB	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Salvation and destruction both come from inside our psyche	This is the most expected book by Stephen King. And the expectation is rewarded with a marvellous experience : reading this fifth volume of the Dark Tower series. Stephen King is here at his best. He brings together some other books of his and entertwines them, dramatically and effectively, into the tale. It is Salem's Lot of course, and that is a brilliant development. Some may say that he uses again situations like the assembly of the village and this repetition may seem humdrum. This is a false perception. He renews the situation in all possible ways. And the book stands out as one great achievement. It also deals with problems of our society. There is a strong feeling of rebellion against machines and modern technology that want to take over the universe, as the tools of some individuals or groups of individuals who want to conquer and control the whole world. It is a denunciation of this technological and mechanical dictatorship we are living in, but technology and machines are always seen as the extension of the morbid desires and impulses of some dark people who pull the strings in the wings, and we long to discover those wings, and we feel in phase with our gunslingers who want to prevent this domination, to save the universe from the dictatorship of these dark minds. Stephen King is also mixing motivations : some are moved by religious feelings and convictions, some are moved by adolescent needs and dreams, some are moved by the desire to control their lives, some are moved by the impulse to destroy the dark side of humanity, etc. These motivations bring together very different people in one common task. Stephen King also explores the people who are ready, for petty profits, to sign up with the dark side of life and become traitors of their own community, and the reasons of this treachery are also very varied, and the gunslingers are not immune. Anyone can become possessed by some dark forces : personal ambition, personal interest, or just some schizophrenic split in their psyhe, a split that is produced by society itself because we do have to be schizophrenic to be able to survive in a world deeply divided between humanistic dreams of peace and quiet development and totalitarian selfish interests. This exploration of the deepest layers of modern man's or woman's psyche is fascinating, frightening and also thrilling : the thrill of the future not being entirely determined and enslaved, of the future being open to our decision to stand against dark forces, of the future being in our own hands. And yet it is not that simple, because to bring up this humanistic future, the gunslingers are at times obliged to be ruthless and brutal with other human beings or even with themselves or among themselves. The dark forces are everywhere and the future can only be brought about through a painful and sometimes fatal delivery. We are mesmerized by this sense of delivery that pervades the whole book : delivery as in the bringing about of a new life, delivery as a liberation of our potentials, even if these potentials are at times purely destructive.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUc split in their psyhe, a split that is produced by society itself because we do have to be schizophrenic to be able to survive in a world deeply divided between humanistic dreams of peace and quiet development and totalitarian selfish interests. This exploration of the deepest layers of modern man's or woman's psyche is fascinating, frightening and also thrilling : the thrill of the future not being entirely determined and enslaved, of the future being open to our decision to stand against dark forces, of the future being in our own hands. And yet it is not that simple, because to bring up this humanistic future, the gunslingers are at times obliged to be ruthless and brutal with other human beings or even with themselves or among themselves. The dark forces are everywhere and the future can only be brought about through a painful and sometimes fatal delivery. We are mesmerized by this sense of delivery that pervades the whole book : delivery as in the bringing about of a new life, delivery as a liberation of our potentials, even if these potentials are at times purely destructive. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-12-15
US	50989966	R3VDBH68QB1HWD	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A new world is never far from the old one, and yet...	This book really is an epic, but an epic of what ? Maybe an epic of human feelings, an epic of humanity, an epic of the building of a new world by mostly uprooted people from another old and unidentified world, most of the time. The heroes are people who fled from their families, who did not have any family, who do not have clearly cut and declared parents, who fled from a country that they did not like anymore, who fled from the cities of the east or the fledgeling cities of the west, who fled from saloons and card playing, who fled from women, who fled from sheriffs, who fled from the law and law-abiding customs. A new world is born from these materials. But the book is also a lot deeper at another level. It shows how Texas rangers established some peace where they operated. It shows how sheriffs establish some peace where they operate. But it shows that this new world, mostly lawless, is a paradise for all those who want to make a living out of adventure, be they law-abiding and they become the cowboys who can discover new lands and build new life stolen from nature, and also mostly from Indians or Mexicans, or be they outlaws, Indians or whites alike, who only find their pleasure in stealing, killing, trafficking, raping, torturing, hurting, shooting, etc. And yet it is from the constant confrontation of these two kinds of people that a new world can be born. What kind of a new world ? Read the book to have an answer. The book is an epic in the shape of a long journey from south to north with several thousand cattle and several dozen horses. A journey that renders possible any kind of encounters and agressions, of any kind of discoveries of unkown places. But this long journey is punctuated with deaths, killings, assaults and self-defense, solitude in the plains and agoraphobia in the cities, drinking, gambling and whoring around in this nascent world, as old in many of its procedures and processes as any old world on earth. And yet the whole journey is crowned off by the return journey of the leader of the first trip back to the starting point to find out that several problems they had had to deal with have been solved, but also that several people they had left behind had turned sour and maybe just crazy, because leaving is maybe easy for those who leave but it is a lot harder for those who stay behind. Emotions in any one of all the chapters, fear, love, sadness, nostalgia, homesickness, regret, repentance even, when confronted with what they leave behind, what they have not chosen to do, what they encounter that casts death all around, and yet joy, pleasure, exhilaration, enthusiasm even at the novelty of what they discover. Picaresque is the word that best suits this novel, and it is so good that you cannot even rush through it. It is a slow reader and this slowness multiplies the pleasure of it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUoff by the return journey of the leader of the first trip back to the starting point to find out that several problems they had had to deal with have been solved, but also that several people they had left behind had turned sour and maybe just crazy, because leaving is maybe easy for those who leave but it is a lot harder for those who stay behind. Emotions in any one of all the chapters, fear, love, sadness, nostalgia, homesickness, regret, repentance even, when confronted with what they leave behind, what they have not chosen to do, what they encounter that casts death all around, and yet joy, pleasure, exhilaration, enthusiasm even at the novelty of what they discover. Picaresque is the word that best suits this novel, and it is so good that you cannot even rush through it. It is a slow reader and this slowness multiplies the pleasure of it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-12-06
US	50989966	R10UZPI3S5O2W2	1873176163	363300436	The Philosophy of Punk: More Than Noise	Books	5	9	16	N	N	Punk is more than simple protest !	This book is extremely important to understand the punk movement that started in the US in the mid 70s and exploded in the world from Great Britain in the late 70s with The Sex Pistols and The Clash. The book tends to show that this « musical » movement, this new stage in rock development is unique and lasting. This is true and false at the same time. Music in the United States, and elsewhere in the world, has always been a medium to convey ideas and protest. Folksongs, Gospels, Protest songs, Jazz, Negro Spirituals, Working Class songs, Blues and even Rock and Roll per se have been such media. Nothing new under the sun as for that. We could also quote the use of songs and music by all kinds of tyrannical regimes, or plainly national anthems. We could even quote centuries of church music and sacred music as expressing political ideas in their days. So, what makes the difference with the punk movement ? The author is very clear about it, even if the ideas he expresses here and there are not always perfectly clear. First it is the result of the consciousness among a wide mass of young people, initiallly coming from the working class or alienated classes in cities, suburbs or the countryside, of the fact that they were the victims of an alienation. It became particularly visible in the 70s when a certain affluence among the population at large  in our countries  made it all the more visible : those who did not have anything, those who had no shelter, home, commodities, even decent food, became very conscious of their depravation. The Blacks first of all (and it led to famous inner city aznd ghetto riots), but here, with the punk movement, the whites. This led to strong Black movements like the Black Panthers or the Black Muslims among the Blacks. This led to the punk movement  and also the skinhead movement  among the whites. They used their music to differentiate themselves from dominant society. And they conveyed a style and ideas that were and still are mostly against all kinds of alienation, hence they got in touch with and at times integrated the anarchist movement or at least philosophy. Their music was derived from rock and roll and tried to use sounds, harmony and rhythm to create something sounding in complete negation with all that had been done before, and thus they tried to disrupt the musical scene. They took clear stands on essential issues in our societies. First of all against the government, the police, the state and they became political anarchists advocating the uselessness of such institutions to enable people to live in peace and quiet, provided these people accepted to share responsibilities, means and objectives : self-government became their motto. They opposed any war and even the army as useless, ruthless and dangerous. They became total pacifists. In the same line they advocated, most of them, non violence. They fought against any kind of discrimination : racism, sexism, homophobia, agism, and many others. Female groups became very popular and visible on the punk stage. They also got involved in the ecological movement. But they seem to forget, or neglect, the fact that they have been very fast recuperated by the major labels, by the media even, because young people are a market and CDs or clothing or beauty products are highly profitable. They tried to build some kind of an alternative economy, but it remained marginal and it did not change the world. The Berlin Wall fell because masses of people wanted it to fall because their development was warped and slowed down by state communism that was in fact nothing more than state capitalism with a feudalistic market economy. The book is yet extremely rich and interesting in references, quotations, and all kinds of historical and chronological elements, without forgetting the ideological presentation of punk anarchy. A must if we want to understand the role youth is playing in our societies, and the power of music as a medium of young peoples ideology, even if it is only in the music itself, the rebellion against the musical norms of any time. In a word Mozart would have been a Punk in our days, and he was a Punk in his days.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUs ideology, even if it is only in the music itself, the rebellion against the musical norms of any time. In a word Mozart would have been a Punk in our days, and he was a Punk in his days.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-31
US	50989966	RPQPMF4J8KEH6	0553110845	257407410	House Corrino (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Politics or the balance of evils	This volume is the concluding volume of the Prelude to the Dune series. It is a marvellous concluding volume. The Herberts, and probably more the father than the son because the father designed the whole series, are against politics in many ways. Politics, when it falls in the hands of greedy people, violent people, immoral people, becomes a real plague to humanity. But deeper than that we can question what limits are missing for these to become such a plague. Greed is the result of a certain economic system that considers profit as being the utmost value in life. It forgets progress is only progress when it is shared by all. Violence is the result of the possibility for some to do what they want because there is no democratic control of their actions. It negates democracy that states that an action has to be approved by all. Immorality is the result of personal or collective creeds that one or a group can do what they please because they have some justification on their sides, be it a twisted religion, or a contorted ideology, or a perverted psychology. It rejects sharing and togetherness that imply that pleasure is only acceptable when it is the pleasure of all. But at the same time the book shows how some can act along a code of honor and a rule of love and that honor and love impose some duties on all : the duty to respect others, to help the weak, to support the poor, to work for the happiness of all. And this attitude becomes the troublemaker for the greedy, the violent and the immoral. The book is optimistic when it states that in the end the good always succeed. Maybe the good in a transhistorical approach, but how many good men, women and children may have died and perished before the good win ? There is also in the book, like in all the books of the series, direct allusions to some of our references : the Catholic Bible for example. The supreme merchants (the Guild and the CHOAM, who have the absolute monopoly on transportation) are also the supreme rulers and no one can do anything without their ultimate support, which means that they will do nothing against some evil as long as their immediate economic interest is not at stake. They are like referees who only see evil when it steps on their toes, and they often accept bribes to close their eyes to some evil in the making. It then appears that there cannot be any peace if it is not based on some balance of terror or fear. In other words peace is nothing but some equilibrium among worlds that may be as evil as the devil himself but who are kept in place by some deterring power that has to be well shared. And that is the only shared element in this world : the fear of some possible terror. Peace can only exist within a constant cold war. Until some new disruption appears from inside or outside. There is no hope in this world, in this vision. But the book is tremendously fascinating as a mirror of our shortcomings, and it is entertaining.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUand no one can do anything without their ultimate support, which means that they will do nothing against some evil as long as their immediate economic interest is not at stake. They are like referees who only see evil when it steps on their toes, and they often accept bribes to close their eyes to some evil in the making. It then appears that there cannot be any peace if it is not based on some balance of terror or fear. In other words peace is nothing but some equilibrium among worlds that may be as evil as the devil himself but who are kept in place by some deterring power that has to be well shared. And that is the only shared element in this world : the fear of some possible terror. Peace can only exist within a constant cold war. Until some new disruption appears from inside or outside. There is no hope in this world, in this vision. But the book is tremendously fascinating as a mirror of our shortcomings, and it is entertaining.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-29
US	50989966	R2Q48Z6DHMIOFE	0812504674	691093854	The Invisible Man (Tor Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	There is no democratic control of science	This novel can be understood at several levels and each one is fundamental and excellent. First, the crazy scientist. A young physicist discovers the secret of invisibility. He implements it on himself and the situation in which he projects himself makes him absolutely crazy and his only objective becomes the desire to dominate the world in a reign of terror. New inventions change the relation between science and the world, between scientists and society, and produce a complete unbalance by projecting the inventors into some unknown land for which they are not prepared. They become crazy. Here Wells seems to advocate a socially-integrated science, a science that answers demands or orders or needs duly expressed by society. Second, the desire to discover new territories. There is no science if the desire to go beyond any known limits is not implemented, no matter what the consequences may be. The quest for this new knowledge has to come from one mind and has to be encouraged no matter what. But the danger we have already seen leads Wells to the conclusion that such quests must not be solitary and have to be shared among scientists. Hence the scientific community must encourage such research. Here Wells criticizes the scientific community : some try to plunder the research of young scientists for their own glory and interest ; some refuse any innovation that would disturb the social balance from which they draw their prestige and income ; some are even more negative and refuse any innovation because it disturbs some « established » truth. This condemns these young scientists to isolation or alienation. Third, modern society is severely criticized, and here Wells becomes very ironical. Some scenes are funny like the invasion of the department store by the invisible man. Wells takes an obvious pleasure in describing the puzzled reactions of individuals who are confronted to this invisible man. But Wells also becomes very critical at this moment and shows how society defends itself by becoming a military body of man-hunters. They do not try to negociate the integration or re-integration of the mad scientist. They just aim at mobilizing people into a vast hunt that has only one objective : to kill. Society is ready to kill any one who may disturb their social order just to eliminate the disturbing element and go back to the established normal order of things. In other words Wells shows us a deeply conservative society. In other words he is from his own age. Today science and technology are moving things at a tremendous speed without the possibility for any one to stop it. But Wells had seen something absolutely fundamental : change produces conservatism, or even extreme reactionary attitudes that can lead to fundamentalism and the total exclusion of groups that are seen then as scapegoats. Wells had foreseen the rise of fascism, nazism, and any other ideology that leads to the exclusion of one group of people, be they those who supposedly slow down change, or be they those who supposedly impose their version of this change. For Wells there seems to be no democratic way to manage change and scientific progress.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUefends itself by becoming a military body of man-hunters. They do not try to negociate the integration or re-integration of the mad scientist. They just aim at mobilizing people into a vast hunt that has only one objective : to kill. Society is ready to kill any one who may disturb their social order just to eliminate the disturbing element and go back to the established normal order of things. In other words Wells shows us a deeply conservative society. In other words he is from his own age. Today science and technology are moving things at a tremendous speed without the possibility for any one to stop it. But Wells had seen something absolutely fundamental : change produces conservatism, or even extreme reactionary attitudes that can lead to fundamentalism and the total exclusion of groups that are seen then as scapegoats. Wells had foreseen the rise of fascism, nazism, and any other ideology that leads to the exclusion of one group of people, be they those who supposedly slow down change, or be they those who supposedly impose their version of this change. For Wells there seems to be no democratic way to manage change and scientific progress.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-19
US	50989966	R352MIGS1G86SM	0451522389	53414232	The Time Machine and The Invisible Man (Signet classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A realistic pessimistic vision of his future, our present	1- THE TIME MACHINE : In this short novel, this novella in fact, H.G. Wells enters frightening lands that are still quite up to date more than a century later. If God is dead and we do not have His guidance in life, what happens ? If Science is true and we only have It to guide us, what happens ? If Darwin has seen truth, and if we only have His Theory to guide us, what happens ? No more Providence, only evolution. The working class will develop into a subterranean race that will have the absolute power of providing everyone with what they need to survive including their clean air, and, whats more, that will provide the upper race with all it needs to enjoy life and do nothing at all. The upper classes will evolve into a new type of cattle since they do nothing, they live in a decaying surface world that has lost all knowledge and scientific guidance. They will regress to a childs consciousness that wil ; only know one adult fact, sex, and they will enjoy the pleasures of inactivity all day long, and the fear of being caught by the subterranean race on moonless nights to become their daily meat. So when Gods Providence disappears from our consciousness there is only a dramatic evolution that will lead to the absolute regression of humanity into animality and the ultimate destruction of humanity and its diasappearance with maybe the hope of a new emergence starting from scratch, that is to say, from the sea and sea-creatures that may evolve again into a new human race in some billion years. But the final morality of this scientific tale of science fiction is that the first victim will be the scientist himself, (1) because he wont be believed, and (2) because he will be swallowed up by his own invention and will disappear into the thin air of time traveling. A mind raking and mind boggling book that should give you some nightmares, if you read it with a mind to its predictive value.<br />2- THE INVISIBLE MAN : This novel can be understood at several levels and each one is fundamental and excellent. First, the crazy scientist. A young physicist discovers the secret of invisibility. He implements it on himself and the situation in which he projects himself makes him absolutely crazy and his only objective becomes the desire to dominate the world in a reign of terror. New inventions change the relation between science and the world, between scientists and society, and produce a complete unbalance by projecting the inventors into some unknown land for which they are not prepared. They become crazy. Here Wells seems to advocate a socially-integrated science, a science that answers demands or orders or needs duly expressed by society. Second, the desire to discover new territories. There is no science if the desire to go beyond any known limits is not implemented, no matter what the consequences may be. The quest for this new knowledge has to come from one mind and has to be encouraged no matter what. But the danger we have already seen leads Wells to the conclusion that such quests must not be solitary and have to be shared among scientists. Hence the scientific community must encourage such research. Here Wells criticizes the scientific community : some try to plunder the research of young scientists for their own glory and interest ; some refuse any innovation that would disturb the social balance from which they draw their prestige and income ; some are even more negative and refuse any innovation because it disturbs some « established » truth. This condemns these young scientists to isolation or alienation. Third, modern society is severely criticized, and here Wells becomes very ironical. Some scenes are funny like the invasion of the department store by the invisible man. Wells takes an obvious pleasure in describing the puzzled reactions of individuals who are confronted to this invisible man. But Wells also becomes very critical at this moment and shows how society defends itself by becoming a military body of man-hunters. They do not try to negociate the integration or re-integration of the mad scientist. They just aim at mobilizing people into a vast hunt that has only one objective : to kill. Society is ready to kill any one who may disturb their social order just to eliminate the disturbing element and go back to the established normal order of things. In other words Wells shows us a deeply conservative society. In other words he is from his own age. Today science and technology are moving things at a tremendous speed without the possibility for any one to stop it. But Wells had seen something absolutely fundamental : change produces conservatism, or even extreme reactionary attitudes that can lead to fundamentalism and the total exclusion of groups that are seen then as scapegoats. Wells had foreseen the rise of fascism, nazism, and any other ideology that leads to the exclusion of one group of people, be they those who supposedly slow down change, or be they those who supposedly impose their version of this change. For Wells there seems to be no democratic way to manage change and scientific progress.<br />(...)an-hunters. They do not try to negociate the integration or re-integration of the mad scientist. They just aim at mobilizing people into a vast hunt that has only one objective : to kill. Society is ready to kill any one who may disturb their social order just to eliminate the disturbing element and go back to the established normal order of things. In other words Wells shows us a deeply conservative society. In other words he is from his own age. Today science and technology are moving things at a tremendous speed without the possibility for any one to stop it. But Wells had seen something absolutely fundamental : change produces conservatism, or even extreme reactionary attitudes that can lead to fundamentalism and the total exclusion of groups that are seen then as scapegoats. Wells had foreseen the rise of fascism, nazism, and any other ideology that leads to the exclusion of one group of people, be they those who supposedly slow down change, or be they those who supposedly impose their version of this change. For Wells there seems to be no democratic way to manage change and scientific progress.<br />(...)	2003-10-19
US	50989966	RVQWHWCOSCI56	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Fourth Dimension leads to the Twilight Zone	In this short novel, this novella in fact, H.G. Wells enters frightening lands that are still quite up to date more than a century later. If God is dead and we do not have His guidance in life, what happens ? If Science is true and we only have It to guide us, what happens ? If Darwin has seen truth, and if we only have His Theory to guide us, what happens ? No more Providence, only evolution. The working class will develop into a subterranean race that will have the absolute power of providing everyone with what they need to survive including their clean air, and, what's more, that will provide the upper race with all it needs to enjoy life and do nothing at all. The upper classes will evolve into a new type of cattle since they do nothing, they live in a decaying surface world that has lost all knowledge and scientific guidance. They will regress to a child's consciousness that wil ; only know one adult fact, sex, and they will enjoy the pleasures of inactivity all day long, and the fear of being caught by the subterranean race on moonless nights to become their daily meat. So when God's Providence disappears from our consciousness there is only a dramatic evolution that will lead to the absolute regression of humanity into animality and the ultimate destruction of humanity and its diasappearance with maybe the hope of a new emergence starting from scratch, that is to say, from the sea and sea-creatures that may evolve again into a new human race in some billion years. But the final morality of this scientific tale of science fiction is that the first victim will be the scientist himself, (1) because he won't be believed, and (2) because he will be swallowed up by his own invention and will disappear into the thin air of time traveling. A mind raking and mind boggling book that should give you some nightmares, if you read it with a mind to its predictive value.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-16
US	50989966	R1VKN9COBI9ZUR	0553275186	436653148	The Lonesome Gods: An Epic Novel of the California Desert	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Gods live in deserts and mountains	The first thing we have to say about this book is that it does not fit the simplistic vision of western literature or cinema as for Indians. This book is a completely different approach that considers Indians are different, but of a higher level, somewhere, probably a higher mental or even intellectual and definitely spiritual level. And the book contains a severe criticism of Europeans along that line : « First we should study what they believe and how it applies to the way they live. First they must be sure of our respect. » And our respect was far from being obvious and our effort to study and understand what they believed, etc..., was far from being one of our lines of conduct. The book is very rich in that line, showing how they did have some beliefs and some theory of life and nature that went a lot farther than ours at times. So, some may say then that the clash was unavoidable. But it could have been quite different.<br />The second thing about this book is that it studies in great detail the status and use of violence in Californian society, and even in American society, around the 1840s and later years. The Spaniards were driven by their aristocratic sense of honor that made them look down upon all others without any distinction. They were the cream of the earth. The Mexicans were moved by the desire to keep California within the Mexican state and they were ready to do anything along that line. The Californios desired to be their own masters and become independent and they wanted to seize the day and take part, in a leading position if possible, in the great transformation that was coming up with the opening of California to the American entreprising spirit. Then the Anglos were that driving force that was going to transform California but they did not prove very subtle at times and their finesse was not very much refined and developed in some of them.<br />The  the book is fascinating because of the plot and the characters and it shows how the American enterprising spirit was in phase with the survival instinct of humanity, a survival that could only be achieved through development and the conquest of new territories, new activities and wealth. This could lead to some criminal strategies : steal, murder, take control of what others have developed and accumulated. This could lead to some hard working strategies : work hard for others so that you can take part in the development of the country and get a share of the accumulated wealth, but through your own hands or your own intelligence. It could also lead to some spiritual strategies : those who had a vision of the future, generally rooted in a vision of their past, a vision of a better future rooted in the recollection of their sufferings or their parents' sufferings. But life is then the constant clash between those three groups, particularly between the two extreme groups and the outcome is never sure. Louis L'Amour adds to that a certain amount of mystical and mythical belief that gives some motivations a sort of cosmic dimension because he shows marvelously how the hard life they had to live was building their character and their strength, not only their greed and certainly not their fear.<br />A great book indeed.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUerprising spirit was in phase with the survival instinct of humanity, a survival that could only be achieved through development and the conquest of new territories, new activities and wealth. This could lead to some criminal strategies : steal, murder, take control of what others have developed and accumulated. This could lead to some hard working strategies : work hard for others so that you can take part in the development of the country and get a share of the accumulated wealth, but through your own hands or your own intelligence. It could also lead to some spiritual strategies : those who had a vision of the future, generally rooted in a vision of their past, a vision of a better future rooted in the recollection of their sufferings or their parents' sufferings. But life is then the constant clash between those three groups, particularly between the two extreme groups and the outcome is never sure. Louis L'Amour adds to that a certain amount of mystical and mythical belief that gives some motivations a sort of cosmic dimension because he shows marvelously how the hard life they had to live was building their character and their strength, not only their greed and certainly not their fear.<BR>A great book indeed.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-13
US	50989966	R1HIOIS1AVIJ4H	0553282107	943284989	The Burning Hills: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The desert is a metaphor of life and love	Western literature has an undeniable charm and represents a unique creation in the world. Let me get rid of the radical rejection of Indians as blood craving and war monging individuals with no individuality. Native Americans are rejected into and by such clich&eacute;s. The land grabbing thieves that the Europeans were are calling wolf when the original landowners start defending their property. But western literature goes a lot farther than that. It shows an essential side of humanity : the desire to go beyond limits, to force the future, to create a new world out of nothing, or out of not much, to curb nature to human needs and projects, and Indians are only part of that nature. It also shows how human feelings are reduced to some basics that can be the foundations of a more complex construction, but that are most of the time the essential part of that construction that never gets off the ground. Humanity living within its basic needs. Love is thus reduced to the need to be needed and the need to be protected along with the need to need and the need to protect. This is simple but essential. We can maybe regret that all the romanticism and the elaborate feelings that love implies are not included in the western recipe but the basic sentiments of need-beneeded and protect-beprotected are an essential human attitude that shows how man and woman can only survive and create the future in difficult situation because that is their destiny. It is this fundamental human destiny to conquer the world and transform it which is essential in western literature. Then what do we do when these values are projected into modern life ? That's a completely different question that requires a lot of thinking and much discussing. Western literature is a central melting pot from which the iron of human endeavor can be produced and refined.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-07
US	50989966	R1Z7MNOB4VE2FN	0753703769	734058273	Sherlock Holmes: The Complete Illustrated Short Stories: All 56 Stories with Original Illustrations from The Strand Magazine	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Get up and wander through the landscape of English crime	Conan Doyle is a genius. When he invented his famous detective Sherlock Holmes he found a gold mine for publication in the press in England from 1891 to 1927, and of course for book publication later on.<br />The second element we have to put forward is the strange taste the English public has had for a long time for detective stories. After Conan Doyle Agatha Christie will come and many others. The English are attracted by the delinquent side of social life, by these shady characters who are taking advantage of their neighbors to make an illegal and immoral living, though at times we may wonder if it is really immoral, if those who have all the riches they have, by birth most of the time, are not even more immoral than the crooks who are taking advantage of them. In a way these stories, and the English interest for these fringes of social life, show that a sort of bad conscience goes along with it and they want to explore it.<br />These stories show that criminals are not crazy people but are very rational people who use their brains to find some loopholes in the system that they can exploit to their own benefit. Most of these stories are depicting very clever criminals who really transform crime into some profitable industry. And they also know about modern technology and use the knowledge they can find in science to improve their productivity and their profit. In the stories we can see modern inventions coming into the picture little by little, such as the telegraph, telegrams and the telephone.<br />These stories also show that the detective who will be able to stop these criminals will have to use a very sophisticated way of thinking, trying to get the knowledge that criminals need to commit their crimes even before them. It also shows, from beginning to end, that the society Conan Doyle is speaking of is the society of the train in which other means of transportation are secondary, except horse-drawn carriages of any type within the narrow limits of London downtown area. Beyond, Sherlock Holmes uses the train, be it the Metropolitan train or railways going outside.<br />These stories eventually enable us to draw the main trait of Sherlock Holmes's personality and way of thinking : to use any kind of knowledge he may have accumulated in his mind, to feed his mind with new knowledge all the time, and to always look at a case from an intuitive point of view that tries to build up various alternative hypotheses among which he will eventually choose when time comes and new facts appear. This is an essential mental stand : never reduce yourself to one solution and never close your mind to alternative explanations, no matter how farfetched, provided they fit with the facts you know. Then you just have to look for the missing elements that can fill the holes in your various hypotheses.<br />The final element I would like to put forward is that Conan Doyle is definitely of his time : the characters represent the ideas of his time and there is practically no romanticism about these criminals. Some may even reflect very dark sides of the ideology of the period. One example : the heavy antisemitism of the « criminal » in the very last story, published in 1927, The Adventure of Shoscombe Old Place, shows how this man is warped by his financial interest, but also how the justice of the land will take a lenient attitude in front of his « crime » which is not killing anyone or stealing anything, but just cheating with circumstances to evade « the Jews » who are holding him in their hands because of his debts. Is this justice excusing the unpleasant things he does because by doing so he is able to evade, temporarily, these Jews ? One may think so.<br />Conan Doyle in other words is able to show the sad and sorry sides of his society, without ever leaning towards any ideology that may ask for this society to be changed : he even goes as far as condemning such attempts, or rather those who represent such attempts, like the Nihilistshe deals with in one story at least (The Adventure of the Golden Pince-Nez).<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUwith in one story at least (The Adventure of the Golden Pince-Nez).<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-10-05
US	50989966	R2CP53RYNS3DX4	0670031720	28976631	Drop City	Books	5	2	5	N	N	It's hard to be humane in unhuman conditions	An excellent perfectly told story. But what is it about ? A hippy commune in California is under the menace of being ousted by the local court and the sheriff. They move to Alaska, to extreme conditions of survival. This brings out the psychology of every character and it is not very flattering for some. Extreme survival conditions reveal the hidden face of each one of them and some of these revelations are absolutely devilish. They are also set in parallel with a young couple that makes it a real trade and adventure to survive in the best conditions and yet without getting into extreme hatred or survival strife with their neighbors. This couple is like the measuring rod to evaluate the hippies. The book reveals that you need to be particularly hard working in such condittions and this reveals those who are hippies to escape any discipline. They become parasites and very fast they start living on the back of the others, without working really and going as far as stealing, and then they drop out before being rejected. Then you have those who cannot bear anything slightly hard and these will eventually drop out. Here there is a touch that bothers me : one of these is a black man, the only black man who manages to follow the commune to Alaska. It reveals open racism among the locals there but it also contains, symbolically, a racist rejection of the character and since he is the only black he becomes the representative of his racial group and that verges onto symbolical racism. Finally you have those who are going to prefer some sentimental attachment to the hardship of living through the Alaskan winter and night. This is the case of the « guru » who owns the land and leads the others to Alaska but he leaves before the winter arguing that his girlfriend, who is no hard-struggling group-minded survivor, is sick. Extreme conditions are the revealing touchstone for all of them and few are those who will go through the adventure and the hard works it entails. Pessimistic in a way, it is also optimistic by the simple conclusion that in such conditions some will be able to cope and some will not be able to cope. Hippyism is easy in California, an easy way to live on the back of others, particularly on the women's back (if I can say so) concerning the men, but this parasitism leads to plain antisocial attitudes or dropping out back to society for some of them. The book is in a way an illustration that humanity needs a challenge, needs extreme conditions to reveal itself, but it is not clear about the fact that some of the survivors will survive on the bodies of many victims of their pushing. Enjoy the book.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUin a way, it is also optimistic by the simple conclusion that in such conditions some will be able to cope and some will not be able to cope. Hippyism is easy in California, an easy way to live on the back of others, particularly on the women's back (if I can say so) concerning the men, but this parasitism leads to plain antisocial attitudes or dropping out back to society for some of them. The book is in a way an illustration that humanity needs a challenge, needs extreme conditions to reveal itself, but it is not clear about the fact that some of the survivors will survive on the bodies of many victims of their pushing. Enjoy the book.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-09-08
US	50989966	R3QQ9BNFABE6PU	0743226852	250310778	Maneater	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Funny stage for a hilarious comedy	Hoolywood and Los Angeles entirely contemplated from a woman's point of view, and not any woman, but a young woman who wants to marry a rich man. Her theory about that manhunt, her practice of that sport, her prey and her hunting technique that leads her to a quick marriage and a quick pregnancy. Unluckily she did not check who the man really was and accepted who he was supposed to be. Of course he is not who he is supposed to be and this leads to a tremendous imbroglio. The book is funny, extremely funny and positively optimistic. The author does believe in love and does believe love can survive any small or big detail that may be thought as capable of pooping the party. In other words, this book is not - and it does not pretend to be -  very deep about women or Los Angeles. It is a vivid and dynamic picture of the scene and the action that takes place on that scene, or shouldn't I say that stage. Entertaining and relaxing.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2003-08-18
US	50989966	R1LAWOSBUO323V	0671042807	414799642	Rescue Me	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	It's a hard life to be a free woman	This novel is a little gem in its genre, a love story. But the author goes beyond and introduces us with a far more complex picture of L.A. society. The main character, Amanda, has to navigate among many perils and hazards. Her brother, a drugpusher, his girlfriend, a drugaddict, their son, a miracle in such conditions, her lifelong friend and lover who becomes her husband through blackmail, her boss and associates who take advantage of her with no future, and her real love Gabriel, a black factory worker who is a hundred time better than all the others. She will be forced into a marriage she does not want, and she will find Gabriel again on the very day when her husband announces he wants a divorce. The book also shows how some people, here men, from the lower classes of American society are able to make it and become successful entrepreneurs of a type or another : the land of opportunities is still here. But these men are motivated in their social climbing by women, the women they want to possess or the women they love. And yet the book goes even further by showing in great details the fate and lot of women in this American society. All women are exploited by men as sex toys, all women are exploited by men as social status tools, and yet again women resist this status of being nothing but a possession. There apparently are many ways, some closer to prostitution than human dignity, some harder than the hardest ordeal one can imagine, some rather easy and yet leading to a life of solitude and depressive alienation. Of course the end is luminous, it is a happy ending. But the book is rich in numerous pages and reflexions on the position of women in American society. It is serious and it should be read by many, men and women alike, to ponder on what they do and what they want and what they impose to others.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-08-10
US	50989966	R192IIAG8U3CK3	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	3	8	N	Y	Social criticism worded for teenagers and even children	This fifth volume of the Harry Potter saga was more than expected and it finally came out and it did not disappoint our expectations. This volume is interesting because it puts the first four volumes in a clear perspective as for Harry Potter's fate contained in a prophecy. This volume is interesting too because it shows how Harry Potter is able to summon around him a fair number of fellow students to fight against the Dark Lord, Lord Voldemort. This is a great optimistic sign about young people who are able to fight against evil, against what is bad in the world. Then the adventure of the fight between the good forces and Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters is full of unexpected developments and surprises. But the book is also interesting because it shows how a government in our countries is easily choosing the third way that is the negation of evil forces and the rebuffing of good forces who denounce these evil forces. This is a clear cut syndrom in our societies today with the choice of that middle of the way policy that leads nowhere except to victimizing those who are the only defense against evil. Here we can wonder if Rowling is not aiming at those benevolent governments who do not have the courage to fight against what is wrong in our societies and prefer giving aspirin against cancer or coughdrops against tuberculosis. The next interest of this book is that good is identified with being good and humane with your fellow humans, with accepting differences between people, be they physical, psychological or cultural and moral, with refusing discrimination, any discrimination in any form. The final interest of this book is the description of school life when the head and the teachers try to impose control of and limitations on students rights. It creates havoc and it leads to catastrophes, especially when some teachers try to retain some knowledge and to prevent students from getting the full picture of what they can and want to know. Luckily young people seem to be able to resist and to find other ways to get the knowledge they need and want.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignano be able to resist and to find other ways to get the knowledge they need and want. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-08-04
US	50989966	R14IYE8ZUWHPPX	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	5	16	36	N	Y	Fresh and exhilarating	This book is an extremely enlightening book about America. First, historically. It gives an inside view of nearly twenty years of American history from the point of view of those who want to make the USA more humane, more dynamic and more influential. How can the USA assume their international role ? How can they set an example to the world ? Can the result of the 2000 presidential election be such an example when the candidate who had most votes was defeated, and when the count and recount of ballots was stopped by the Supreme Court thus rejecting into oblivion the votes of a great number of citizens ? Is that democracy ? How can the USA influence the evolution of the world towards more democracy and less war, more human rights and particularly more women's rights and less injustice, more sharing of the results of human work and less selfishness, more environmental protection and respect and less reckless exploitation of human resources and natural riches ? The answer is in one simple idea : It takes a village ... The USA must bring everyone together to fight for progress and development. This is hard and it requires a good knowledge of the world, a good knowledge of the differences between peoples and countries and cultures, a fair and passionate effort to bring together different groups beyond their differences on common objectives : democracy, a sharing vision of market economy, equal rights for everyone in spite of cultural, sexual, religious, philosophical and economic differences. This is hard, this is difficult, this requires a lot of humane compassion and openminded understanding. Second, philosophically. Ms Clinton sets her inspiration in line with the deep humanistic approach of life represented by Emerson, Whitman and many others in America over the last two centuries, but also in line with thinkers from all over the world. She seems yet to have a slight difficulty in grasping the progressive thinking of the European tradition that goes back to the Ancient Greeks like Socrates and Aristotle. She seems to lack some understanding of all the long evolution of Christian thinking in Europe in the Dark Ages, when religious thinking was widely open to human suffering and the human desire to build the New Jerusalem on earth. But she has compassion, she has education, she has the ability to see the perspective of human history even if she is too narrowly closed up in two centuries of American history. Third, culturally. This is probably the best aspect of the book : her understanding that in each country culture is the essential element to define the country's approach to the world, the people's way of thinking and imagining the future. She does not seem, though, to know enough about the cultures of all countries and peoples in the world. It is fine and dandy to say that Nelson Mandela's forgiving policy is admirable. It is a lot more important to see that it is the resurgence of very old African ideas that are able to span history over the five centuries of European colonialization. Nelson Mandela recaptures the old traditional approach to the world that says that African society is entirely open to the outside world, to welcoming and assimilating outsiders and yet fully respect their differences. Nelson Mandela goes back to Bantu or Zulu tradition, the very tradition that made colonialization possible. Something though has changed in the world and Ms Clinton fails to see it : the Christian, western world is no longer dominant, even if they have the economic and military power to impose their views. The Christian western world is today only one section of the world and the other sections have te be taken into account and considered as equal to this very Christian western section. She still has to learn something about the world, even if she is a few light years ahead of the conservative and fundamentalistic approach of the present majority of the Republican Party who have completely forgotten Lincoln and the historical role he played in changing the face of the world. This book is a must on anyone's reading list who wants to understand what is happening in the world, even if the book does not contain all answers. Can any book do ? She represents the future of the USA, at least for the rest of the world.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignane he played in changing the face of the world. This book is a must on anyone's reading list who wants to understand what is happening in the world, even if the book does not contain all answers. Can any book do ? She represents the future of the USA, at least for the rest of the world.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-07-25
US	50989966	R11NYN8A9M0BUI	0971869413	564647181	The Jesus Thief	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	The world is power-hungry!	When I read the first book of that girl I knew she was up to something. But this second book sure is SOME-thing. I am not impressed by the cloning of Jesus. Easy and technically possible. I am not even impressed by the belief the blood on the Shroud of Turin is Jesus's. Anyone can believe it. It does not matter anyway whether it is or not, at least in this book. Anyone, everyone is going to belive it. But I am impressed at the consequences of this act. And there J.R. Lankford is great. Great as for the describing of the feelings and pangs of faith the surrogate mother experiences. Great as for the feelings and pangs of scientific ethics the Doctor who performs the operation experiences. Great too are the three secondary characters : the doctor's paramour ; the doctor's sister and the surrogate mother's paramour. Great too the fact that the doctor and his sister, though raised as Catholics, are Jewish by their parents who escaped the holocaust and changed their religion afterwards. Good idea to make a catholically-educated Jew repair the accusation Jews have been the object of for twenty centuries. But she goes beyond all this and reaches the highest level of greatness by imagining the reactions of the prudent Catholic church, of the enthusiastic christian believers, and of the powerful and power-addicted politicians and machiavelian string-pullers in the wings. Those who have power today would react to the news of a new Jesus coming into the world in the most panicked and frightened way. This proves that those who killed the first Jesus were necessarily those who had power and those who have power today would not hesitate one second to kill any new Jesus. She thus reveals a dimension of human society that is generally overlooked : human society is in the hands of a few people who have total power over it and manipulate it to their sole and only interests. And any menace to that power causes the strongest and most violent reaction possible out of fear, the fear of losing their power. They are power-hungry for sure but for them power is an addictive drug and they cannot imagine themeselves cutting on their habit. In spite of the fact that the book is maybe too slow in its first half, when this power perspective is revealed the book becomes breathtaking. A new Jesus has to be hidden away from them, has to be declared dead, has to disappear into non-existence. That is a realistic conclusion. Beyond this we enter science-fiction. What will happen when this Jesus is of age and starts his trip into society to change it ? And, anyway, will he do it because his personality is only fifty percent genetic and is also fifty percent education ? The book stops on and with this question and we do not enter science-fiction. Let us imagine, according to our beliefs, what may happen twenty or twenty-five years later, and also, eventually what may happen during these twenty or twenty-five years. Will Jesus be a good student at school ? He was not exactly a good one in the Temple.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignansing their power. They are power-hungry for sure but for them power is an addictive drug and they cannot imagine themeselves cutting on their habit. In spite of the fact that the book is maybe too slow in its first half, when this power perspective is revealed the book becomes breathtaking. A new Jesus has to be hidden away from them, has to be declared dead, has to disappear into non-existence. That is a realistic conclusion. Beyond this we enter science-fiction. What will happen when this Jesus is of age and starts his trip into society to change it ? And, anyway, will he do it because his personality is only fifty percent genetic and is also fifty percent education ? The book stops on and with this question and we do not enter science-fiction. Let us imagine, according to our beliefs, what may happen twenty or twenty-five years later, and also, eventually what may happen during these twenty or twenty-five years. Will Jesus be a good student at school ? He was not exactly a good one in the Temple.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-06-22
US	50989966	R2WAR4QY994DNG	0742629457	179797891	Vera; or the Nihilists (Collected Works of Oscar Wilde)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Wilde is no Gorki nor no Brecht	This rewriting of Romeo and Juliet is not convincing at all because the Nihilists are reduced to sectarian fanatics, the Czar to a manipulated tyrant, the courtiers to bloodthirsty powerhungry wolves, the Czarevitch to a romantic puppy suddenly grown adult. Vera, the most popular and feared Nihilist, will kill herself out of love to save the Czarevitch who is on a trail of reforms after the assassination of his father. This caricature has nothing to compare with Gorki?s The Mother, nor Brecht?s Mother Courage and Her Children. It is yet interesting to see how Oscar Wilde is far from understanding what simple suffering people can be in Russia at that time and what the psychology of the Nihilists was. He uses quite many clich?s and does not get into any depth. So the superimposing of a pale Romeo and Juliet ending does not give depth to something that is shallow.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-28
US	50989966	R2SAYPEPR3BNXN	0451167783	446331567	A Streetcar Named Desire	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	An eternal tragedy in our modern world	Tennessee Williams probably signed there his best play, at least the one that is best-known. It is entirely centered on a woman who flees from Mississippi to New Orleans to live, for a while, with her married sister. The two sisters were born in the Southern aristocracy that got bankrupt by not being able, or even refusing, to get into the new flow of time. One went away and married a working class immigrant who is in many ways uncultured and rough, even violent at times. But desire is stronger than that violence and love survives a row from time to time, provided truthfulness and some sensual sincerity exist. But that is only the secondary theme to which Blanche, the other sister, is confronted and this brings back her real drama that is burried in her memory. She married very young. Her husband was also very young and a poet. But she discovered that he also was gay and she could not accept it due to her southern aristocratic principles. He was an abomination and she told him so one night and he went out and killed himself. She never overcame her guilt and she delved into a more and more dissolute life with any man that could come along, till she went back to a substitute of her dead husband, a 17 year old boy. The family protested and she was expelled from the school system (she was a teacher) and from the city. Confronted to the life of her sister and husband, she regresses into southern sophistication. She comes across a man, Mitch, who could and even would like to marry her. But her sister's husband, wanting to get rid of her, exposes her lies about her past to his friend Mitch and his wife. He destroys the dream and Blanche sinks into some psychotic nightmare that becomes a complete breakdown when her brother in law, on the very night when his son was born, rapes her. The end is a lesson about the savage and wild world in which we live and in which life must go on, or, as actors say, the show must go on. Her sister has to come to terms with this sad event, accept it or rather negate it not to be broken up by the event, and sister and husband have to get rid of Blanche. Only one solution : to have her institutionalized. The play is an extremely strong exposure of that simple fact that one has to follow the trend and change along with the world, no matter how hard it may be to adapt, to survive and remain balanced and sane in an insane and completely incomprehensible world. It also exposes that one is in a way one's own victim when one is not able to accept the world the way it is and imposes rules from the past onto it. This is probably the worst crime because it leads other people into suffering or even death, and you into guilt. So what is the desire that is at stake on such a play ? Sexual desire ? Maybe. Sentimental desire ? Maybe. But first of all the desire to survive by paying the price you have to pay for it. It thus becomes the exposure of a society in which feelings, sentiments, sexual impulses are nothing but secondary emotions and pleasures that can gratify your life if you are able to adapt to the world and survive in it. This world is inhumane, dehumanized, extremely savage. Men and women are like animals who can only aim at surviving or satisfying their animal impulses. Culture, civilization, principles, ethics, everything really human becomes a trauma in such a world. At the time of the play the only outcome could be the sacrifice of those who cannot adapt. Has it really changed ?<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignanept it or rather negate it not to be broken up by the event, and sister and husband have to get rid of Blanche. Only one solution : to have her institutionalized. The play is an extremely strong exposure of that simple fact that one has to follow the trend and change along with the world, no matter how hard it may be to adapt, to survive and remain balanced and sane in an insane and completely incomprehensible world. It also exposes that one is in a way one's own victim when one is not able to accept the world the way it is and imposes rules from the past onto it. This is probably the worst crime because it leads other people into suffering or even death, and you into guilt. So what is the desire that is at stake on such a play ? Sexual desire ? Maybe. Sentimental desire ? Maybe. But first of all the desire to survive by paying the price you have to pay for it. It thus becomes the exposure of a society in which feelings, sentiments, sexual impulses are nothing but secondary emotions and pleasures that can gratify your life if you are able to adapt to the world and survive in it. This world is inhumane, dehumanized, extremely savage. Men and women are like animals who can only aim at surviving or satisfying their animal impulses. Culture, civilization, principles, ethics, everything really human becomes a trauma in such a world. At the time of the play the only outcome could be the sacrifice of those who cannot adapt. Has it really changed ? <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-28
US	50989966	R2CZ78G734IDUV	0486421279	884381658	Salomé (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	It could be a perfect opera	Oscar Wilde touches here a fundamental subject in Christian lore : Salome and John the Baptist, and through them Jesus and the prophesy that he is the Messiah. It would be a perfect subject for an opera because the events are contained in too short a time and the feelings and motivations are too simple and intensely concentrated for a dramaruc play. Salome asks for John's head out of spite because she could not possess him, because he refused to acknowledge her, and also because she knows this will mean the downfall of her step-father, the killer of her own father, and the incestuous husband of her mother. So vengeance is her second motivation. Those motivations are too simple to build up the tragical force of a play, but they are so intense that they could have inspired the most dramatic and powerful music. Oscar Wilde's language is beautiful in many  ways but this beauty does not give any complexity to the simpleness of the emotions and motivations. This beautiful language could have become the carrier of a beautiful music. Actually we can hear the music of a Scarlatti, or of a Purcell behind the words, maybe even a Haendel. But as a play it is a little bit flat and without enough depth to build a beautiful performance. As a matter of fact the centrepiece of the play, the dance of the seven veils, is not a dramatic event but a visual and musical event. And we cannot in anyway escape the recollection of the fantastic little black and white film by Clive Barker on the subject. Salome is worth more than just a dramatic play. She can only find her full strength when music and dancing come into the picture, when it is fully visual and musical.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-27
US	50989966	R2U7WC3PCOHY9I	0486264785	586166490	The Importance of Being Earnest	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wit is stronger than appearances	Oscar Wilde gives us in this play one of his best instance of humor, or would I say wit ? Every situation, every word, every piece of this dialogue is full of smartness and intelligence. The only aim of the play is to show us how absurd strict social canons are. Life is extremely more fun than the respect of such rules that destroy any kind of pleasure or happy turns of events. Good society is thus turned upside down and the best instance of such humorous antics is the fact that the son of a general was officially born in a handbag deposited in the cloakroom of Victoria Station, the Brighton Line. How ridiculous ! How funny, ah ah and funny, strange ! Oscar Wilde shows how vain all appearances are because appearances may hide deeper things that are of far more important value than these appearances. This play is thus a constant and perfect example of comedy. But in spite of this light appearance of the play, we can feel the deeper suffering of Oscar Wilde who is very serious about the absurdity of keeping up appearances instead of taking only character into account. In other words, this comedy is a sign of the total decay of such higher society that is nothing but a pretty face with nothing behind, nothing in the head or the brain. It is a call for a real society based on human values like love, truthfulness, faithfulness. All twists in the social fabric create unconceivable embroglios that lead to entanglements and other difficulties. Things would be so simple if men and women could just follow their inclinations and their deep sentiments. We also find in this comedy a deep marivaux-ian influence : Marivaux loved in his play to alter identities, but among girls, to test the love of men. Here it is the men who have altered identities and it leads to testing their ability at sacrificing such entangled situations for the love of a girl. There is also a strong recollection of Shakespeare who enjoyed turning his girls into boys in his comedies, but once again to test the love of men, to see without being seen, for women. Oscar Wilde, in the social setting of a Victorian society, is just as witty and funny as Shakespeare in say As you Like It, or say again A Midsummer Night's Dream. And life turns Aunt Augusta, alias Lady Bracknell into the ass of the fable.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignane love of men, to see without being seen, for women. Oscar Wilde, in the social setting of a Victorian society, is just as witty and funny as Shakespeare in say As you Like It, or say again A Midsummer Night's Dream. And life turns Aunt Augusta, alias Lady Bracknell into the ass of the fable.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-27
US	50989966	R2BXD82GBU23V6	048641423X	646408605	An Ideal Husband (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Love, politics and forgiveness	Oscar Wilde gives us here one of his best plays. He explores the political world in London and how a young ambitious but poor man can commit a crime, which is a mistake, to start his good fortune. But he builds his political career on ethical principles. Sooner or later someone will come into the picture to blackmail him into supporting an unacceptable scheme, by producing a document that could ruin his career if revealed. His past mistake may come back heavily onto him. But he resists and sticks to his moral reputation. He prefers doing what is right to yielding to some menace. He may lose though his political ambition and career and his wife's love. But love is saved by forgiveness and the man's career is also saved by the work of a real friend who recaptures the dubious document and destroys it. In other words love and an ethical career are saved by the burrying of the old mistake into oblivion. In other words love and friendship are stronger than the scheming action of a blackmailer. This is a terrible criticism of victorian society which is based more on appearances than principles and yet able to destroy a man's absolutely ethical present life with a mistake from his youth, throwing the baby along with the water of the bath. It is also a criticism of the victorian political world where you cannot have a career if you are not rich, money appearing as the only way to succeed, at least to succeed fast. But it is a hopeful play because love and friendship are beyond such considerations and only consider the best interest of men and women, in the long run and in the name of absolute purity. Better be a sinner and be forgiven when you have reformed than see a reformed sinner destroyed by the lack of forgiveness. Oscar Wilde advocates here a vision of humanity that necessitates forgiveness as the essential fuel of any rational approach. Real morality is not the everlasting guilt of a sinner without any possible reform. Real morality is the recognition that forgiveness is necessary when reform has taken place. Otherwise society would be unlivable and based on hypocrisy and the death or rejection of the best people in the name of (reformed) mistakes. One must not be that sectarian, because man can learn from his mistakes and improve along the road : one can learn how to avoid mistakes and repair those oen has committed. If condemnation is absolute, no progress is possible. A very fascinating play, a very modern play. And yet when can one be considered as reformed, when can we consider one has really corrected one's mistakes and improved ? And who can deem such elements ? The very core of political and ethical rectitude is concerned here and Oscar Wilde embraces a generous approach.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignans is necessary when reform has taken place. Otherwise society would be unlivable and based on hypocrisy and the death or rejection of the best people in the name of (reformed) mistakes. One must not be that sectarian, because man can learn from his mistakes and improve along the road : one can learn how to avoid mistakes and repair those oen has committed. If condemnation is absolute, no progress is possible. A very fascinating play, a very modern play. And yet when can one be considered as reformed, when can we consider one has really corrected one's mistakes and improved ? And who can deem such elements ? The very core of political and ethical rectitude is concerned here and Oscar Wilde embraces a generous approach.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-26
US	50989966	R1RF5M0N5AEXP8	0175565422	239829018	Lord Arthur Savile's Crime (Nelson English Readers Library)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Don't believe superficial certainties	Lord Saville one night listens to a chiromantist who tells him he has to commit a crime, whose victim is supposed to be a relative of some kind, before being able to marry his love. The tale is full of humor and shows how he fails, systematically, in his enterprise, because he believes the soothsayer. But the more humoristic the tale becomes, the more desperate Lord Saville grows. Till one night he kills the chiromantist. He has finally been able to rebel against the prediction and this rebellion proves the prediction is a fake. But a second dimension appears in the tale. The chiromantist had been introduced to Lord Saville by some woman who invites such oddities to her parties to amuse the audience. She behaves as if she believed in those ominous birds that she calls lions. And Lord Saville was naive enough to accept this prediction as true and unescapable because it had been introduced to him by this particular woman, in this particular situation. Men must not fall in the traps of social tricks that some women hire to give some life to their social evenings that would be very dull otherwise. Who is wiser? The woman who \\"animates\\" her social gatherings with such attractions? Or the man who falls in the trap of believing such predictions? The other tales of the collection are all just as funny by showing how some people are able to go beyond such appearances and reach another level of being that is some kind of game and it becomes a trap to the gullible ones.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-22
US	50989966	R3RC5GOOO2YT	0486419258	108562635	The Canterville Ghost and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	What if ghosts were just enslaved victims?	Oscar Wilde, in this Canterville Ghost story, reaches a tremendous level of humor and caustic social vision. The humor comes from the fact that the American family that buys the ghost along with the mansion takes him as being real and apply to him all the possible modern techniques to improve his life and make his sojourn in the mansion untroublesome for the new inhabitants. It is also funny because two young boys play all kinds of tricks to the ghost and there is no end in their creativity. But the story is also a little bit sad because it reveals the ghost has become a ghost when the brothers of his wife, whom he had assassinated, took vengeance and starved him to death. It also reveals that the ghost can be redeemed if love comes along and frees him of his misery and fate. And this love will come from the young daughter of the American family. She will naively open her heart to the suffering of the ghost and thus free him of his lot. This also shows how the attitude of the English owner of the mansion are just not interested in the suffering of the ghost, whereas the Americans will take this ghost seriously and will try to understand him and give him solace. Beyond the humor of the tale there is the tremendous belief that suffering can be solved.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-22
US	50989966	R1E3ZDA8OQYTRM	0486278077	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Appearances are not what they look like	Oscar Wilde is a man who is obsessed by appearances. In this particular novel, he follows from the moment Dorian Gray sells his soul to the devil named beauty and youth, pleasure and enjoyment, to his death and he describes how someone who looks perfect, perfectly young, intelligent, brilliant, beautiful, moral and healthy is in fact nothing but a monster decaying in all possible immoral actions, deeds and ways just under the surface. It is a very strong criticism of victorian society that considers appearances as more important than real ethics and morality. He exposes the hypocrisy of such a society where a whole class of people are nothing but perambulating pictures of perfection hiding the mire and mud of crime and evil. We can also feel another dilemma in this book. Oscar Wilde's own dilemma who has to keep up appearances, the appearances of a well behaved, well educated and perfectly integrated man in this aristocratic society of his, and who yet lives a passion and a whole basket of desires and impulses that are absolutely rejected as crimes by victorian society. We know he will not be able to hide this deeper nature forever. But the book shows that no one can evade one's being exposed and rejected, condemned and sentenced to some punishment forever. There always comes a moment when one will be exposed and rejected. This shows how deeply Oscar Wilde must have suffered in his life. The painting is nothing but a mirror of the deeper self of Dorian Gray, but a mirror who will become one day his accuser.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan.	2003-05-22
US	50989966	R1UT4USNTWRL48	0486400786	930947259	Lady Windermere's Fan (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	How can women survive in victorian society	Oscar Wilde entirely dedicates this play to the exploration of the way a woman can be saved from destruction in this society of appearances. A woman was the victim of an imbroglio in the past and abandoned her daughter. This woman comes back and the daughter ignores her relation to her. She is brought back into societry by the daughter's husband who knows the truth but does not want his wife to know it. But there is some kind of malediction that flies over the heads of these women. The daughter nearly does the same mistake as her mother but she is saved by her mother who accepts to be tainted in her daughter's place. Bus Oscar Wilde must think there is some kind of reward for a good deed and all is well that ends well, and this play has a happy ending. In spite of all the melodramatic sentimentalese atmosphere, Oscar Wilde definitely explores in this play the great disadvantage of a woman in society. Men can do nearly all they want. Women are extremely limited and have to walk a very straight and narrow line. Oscar Wilde seems to be ahead of his time as for the fate of women: he seems to aspire for real equality for them, though he shows in all possible ways that this is impossible in his society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-22
US	50989966	R1ILB6MXZ80SAV	0679444734	229461846	The Happy Prince and Other Tales	Books	5	12	15	N	N	There is always some salvation	In these tales, most of them being sad and even very sad, Oscar Wilde looks for a way to save one's soul in front of the misery of the world. Anyone in society who lives in the upper classes does not necessarily see the ugliness and suffering of the world when one looks at the lower classes. But in these tales the Happy Prince, or the Selfish Giant, or any other character will manage to get salvation out of their upper class blindness, by opening their eyes to misery and suffering and by doing what they can to repair these pains and evils because they will realise they have to feel responsible for the world, because they are more powerful and could easily impose their selfish rule. But the giant will discover nature, if not God, punishes him for his selfishness. The nightingale will try to redeem a young student by giving him a red rose in a season when read roses do not bloom. And yet the student will not get the love he wants because he is nothing but a non-entity for the girl he would like to be loved by. There is also a very sad note in A Devoted Friend and how friendship can become a mask for selfishness, a nice appearance for an ugly and egoistic attitude. Those tales are sad and at the same time they convey a moral full of hope. All is not lost if the Happy Prince can give away his happiness for those who suffer, even if later the powerful of his society will reject him when he does not look happy and beautiful any more<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-05-22
US	50989966	R1NT4ZUGL2Q2VD	0671885995	649675809	The Horror Writers Association Presents Peter Straub's Ghosts	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Ghosts of the mind	Peter Straub has selected some extremely interesting ghost stories in this book. Very systematically he looked for stories that depict a deranged mind more than real paranormal phenomena. The ghosts are living in the minds of the main characters and that gives a real twang to the book. No special effects, no monsters with a zipper in the back but phantasms, imaginary beings, delusions, all the result of a mind that does not know where to stand any more. And when you lose your footing, you have the tendency to see the ground floating over your head and the air harbouring a lot of incredible beings and creatures. In other words these stories are perfectly plausible, most of them, and they give you a real feeling of unease because you know you could experience the same thing under some circumstances.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-04-24
US	50989966	RK8VDVPH66JII	0395969190	282451525	Black Talk: Words and Phrases from the Hood to the Amen Corner	Books	5	10	20	N	N	Black Talk on loan	This book by Geneva Smitherman is a good buy because it is very recent and it aims at explaining what that language some call ebonics, at least the variant that exists in the USA, is. The book is a dictionary in a way but the presentation is giving a central idea. Black talk is the language AfroAmericans create and use in their community both to differentiate themselves from the whites and to speak a language that is not understood by the whites. They are thus smuggling meaning into white society that only them understand. But the main phenomenon the author shows is that the whites are copycats and borrow that language from the blacks and keep it on loan, without interest, and enrich their own language with it. In a way today's black talk is tomorrow's white talk and today's white talk is yesterday's black talk. This shows a great level of creativity and even a great level of inspiration : AfroAmericans inspire the whites with their creativity, which tends to imply that the creativity of the whites, particularly among young people, is black driven and black inspired. The question that is not answered is why AfroAmericans, as a community, are not recognized for what they are : an essential engine in the creativity of American society and culture. Some will say that this is only words, but words are the tools of the mind and these words transport meaning. This is the other question that is not answered : the meaning the whites use in those black words is not what the blacks convey with them. Are the whites unable to get this meaning ? Doesn't this meaning apply to white society ? Is it a last form of racism, the racism of the language and the mind?  I think it is more complex and words, when they shift from one situation to another, necessarily change meanings. This is a case of languages in contact. The whites borrow the words but they implant the meanings they want in them.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-04-16
US	50989966	RZL20F1HHM36Z	074352585X	808038753	The Man in the Black Suit : 4 Dark Tales	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Horror curled up deep in your armchair	Stephen King is writing novels, and in this case short stories that are supposed to be read in the night to put yourself to sleep with a pair of nightmares as fodder of your soul. But here they are read, and it is different. Quite different indeed because the visual reading we are used to is replaced by hearing the reading of the tale by someone else. You become in other words inactive. And the reading by the actor simplifies the text and reduces it to one possible interpretation, whereas your own reading might open more doors. So you have to follow the reader. At times it even brings up readings you may not have thought of at all. For instance, the fourth tale, « That Feeling, You Can Only Say What It Is In French » read by Becky Ann Baker brings up that the d&eacute;j&agrave; vu feeling comes from the fact it is a second honeymoon and a second honeymoon has to be deja vu . Hence the hell or purgatory the text speaks of becomes that second honeymoon and not at all the hell or purgatory that might follow death. The tale becomes then very strong in the idea that you must never take second helpings, especially when the first one had been good. The second one can only be second grade. So try to listen to these tales and you will enjoy them as much as I did but in a quite different way you had enjoyed your own reading of them as printed on paper.	2003-04-01
US	50989966	R3RXC9PV9JCR98	0595165443	560230110	SunBirds: #1 Beginnings	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Are Peacocks the saviours of our world?	Peacocks, you are all there, standing tall and walking high, but there are enemies all around.<br />  First the Raisers, the human beings raising you to embellish beautiful gardens. The little peachick Mocha has to learn how to survive from others and to teach others how to clear their fear of these human beings, though it is natural for pheasants to be afraid of the dark hell humans prepare them for, the kitchens and the diningrooms of so many families who will never know that birds have a language (prefering their clickings and other little noises), feelings (prefering the filling of the bird on the serving dish), and even emotions.<br />  Second, these birds have to face the drastic danger of a take-over of the planet by flies who are trying to produce armybugs to get rid of humans. These flies - or rather fl-eyes - want to impose their governance and power over all other living creatures to achieve their conquest. They kidnap birds made weak by their raids on food and water, to produce their armybugs, their drones.<br />  Mocha, the peachick is in great danger and his father, Aquarius, will have to go to his rescue. But how can he from his cage?<br />  Luckily there comes the third party in this story, the bugs who have reinvented computers and computerized weapons. The bugs are too small and too isolated to use them in an all-out war against fl-eyes. So they have to get into an alliance with birds. Difficult to achieve, since bugs are the favorite breakfast, lunch and dinner of birds, but they succeed and Mocha will be saved. Hallelujah.<br />  To know the details, get the book and read it.<br />  But the book is also a big hyperbole of our human race and the silly way and habit we have to fall into war and destructive ambitions.<br />  Humanity is thus divided between the raisers, those who produce, work and enrich the world; the birds, those who represent beauty and feed the body and soul of their fellow human beings, even if they don't always know that and are afraid to fall the victims of the greed of human beings; then the scientists who look after the welfare of humanity by inventing machines that demultiply the powers of men and protect their existence; finally the dark armies of flies who can only aim at getting the upperhand and enslaving humanity and target all the others to reach their ends.<br />  This book is in a way naive - but isn't that the quality of youth and innocence - by thinking humanity can easily unify to reject the dark forces of fl-eyes and their domination. Is it that simple? And can we easily forgive the humans who only see food in our beautiful birds and artists and poets, a simple way to make a profit out of them? Can we negate the looting and pillaging of our mother nature for our own and sole interests?<br />  And is it that easy and simple to identify dark forces only in one group of people instead of seeing evil spread out everywhere, in all human beings who are necessarily contradictory, full of contradictions.<br />  But there remains Andrew A. Browne is starting a long voyage in literature and we have to congratulate and encourage him on his \\"pilgrim's progress\\" hoping he will go on avoiding the traps of oversimplification and maturing like a good wine, a good cheese or just a healthy fruit tree into producing a rich harvest.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignanare afraid to fall the victims of the greed of human beings; then the scientists who look after the welfare of humanity by inventing machines that demultiply the powers of men and protect their existence; finally the dark armies of flies who can only aim at getting the upperhand and enslaving humanity and target all the others to reach their ends. <BR>    This book is in a way naive - but isn't that the quality of youth and innocence - by thinking humanity can easily unify to reject the dark forces of fl-eyes and their domination. Is it that simple? And can we easily forgive the humans who only see food in our beautiful birds and artists and poets, a simple way to make a profit out of them? Can we negate the looting and pillaging of our mother nature for our own and sole interests?<BR>    And is it that easy and simple to identify dark forces only in one group of people instead of seeing evil spread out everywhere, in all human beings who are necessarily contradictory, full of contradictions.<BR>    But there remains Andrew A. Browne is starting a long voyage in literature and we have to congratulate and encourage him on his \\"pilgrim's progress\\" hoping he will go on avoiding the traps of oversimplification and maturing like a good wine, a good cheese or just a healthy fruit tree into producing a rich harvest.<BR> <BR>Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-26
US	50989966	R1SMVIDS5AHSP6	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The psychology of State Troopers	This level is absolutely amazing in the very fine and detailed approach of State Troopers in the daily life of their profession. They appear as being very humane among themselves, very sensitive even, though at times the males tend to be careless with women, but they know how to make up for their lack of attention and appear to be big children in their procedures. They also appear to be very open on the society around them. They never show any kind of arrogance and condescendence towards the public, even if they have special phrases to speak of them, even if they deeply hate the drunks, those who beat women and molest children. They really look at men and women with a deep feeling of community, of service. They may even become heroes without knowing it, without trying to do it, just because it is a reflex in their nature, in their training to help, to protect, to save even those who are in any kind of danger. They also have their small sides, though their private life is alluded to but never really explored in this book. Some may like alcohol too much, some may like tobacco too much, some may put their service over their families, some may be « married » to their group, but they never live completely cut off from society and other people, and they even know how to lie, or let's say disguise truth, to protect their work or to protect people and their families from the dangers of their work. Stephen King makes us like them because they are really human. And that is a change in Stephen King's books that have put the emphasis on the black sides of such military or paramilitary personnel quite often, from Firestarter to Dreamcatcher. But here the psyche of a teenager is analysed and approached with great care, and a tremendous amount of love, even for his rebellious stand and his vengeful scream in front of the unjust world that deprives him of his father. His colleagues will find the words and the gestures necessary for this young man to get beyond his rebellion and his desire of a vengeance, to build a motivation to live and love other people and even the worst possible events in his life. He will learn to lie to his mother to protect her and his sisters against the horror of his experience. This is a real miracle.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-19
US	50989966	RKXLQAWBY3TTG	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The ultimate door to and from somewhere else	Here again, Stephen King goes beyond what he has done in many other books, and yet retains the main dimension of his presentation of that other world, lets say some extraterrestrial world, as being dangerous, as aiming at attacking us, as wanting to destroy us or invade us in a way or another. And yet he finds a formula that is very effective, and highly symbolical. The door to that other world is an old car, a Buick 8. This is a common theme in his books where cars have been haunted, dangerous, where that symbol of America and modern life has been, very often, described as a door to evil, to the uncontrolable evil of the mind or of the world beyond the door of normality. We think of Christine of course, but we also think of the frequency with which cars have been the trauma that brings evil. It is true too that cars are also the means to escape from evil in many other books. The car in US society is ambiguous, maybe because it is both a horse of a new type and a weapon in the hands of those who use them as an agressive tool, to hurt or to kill. But what is interesting in the book is not so much the magic of that evil car, but the reactions of various State Troopers in front of that danger, and here again we find a very precise description of these attitudes, of these psychologies, aven if somewhere there is a sense of fate that no one can escape, and that this fate has roots in another world, in another level of reality, deeper maybe, or just beyond. And this beyondness is embedded in the language of the book by always going beyond normal words and looking for strong expressions, very creative phrases that bring together the color of everyday familiar language and the strength of poetry. This is a real achievement.<br />Dr Jacqyues COULARDEAU ? University of Perpignan	2003-03-19
US	50989966	R109HIHIFQES6Y	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fun is fun and done is done	This is the thirteenth reason to read this collection. When it came out as an ebook I did not care for it so much. I do not like the clicking to turn the pages. I like the crisp feel of the paper pages. This story is absolutely great. You will fall into its traps at least four or five times. And you will end not knowing what is real and what is not. It sure is a funeral service for one's mother, but it is a lot more than that. It is the vision of life and death through the eyes of a heart-attack victim. Everything is blurred and every recollection is a piece of guilt you are paying for right now. It is this deep sense of guilt which is pervading the story through and through. It is marvelous. The reflection on death is only secondary, because we have to die anyway, though no doctor, no ghoul, no preacher, no soothsayer can tell us when. So why live in anxiety because we are going to die, and everyone is going to die? The only important thing is how, when and where. And that we can hardly know.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU...	2003-03-09
US	50989966	RUFRJ1XQLBY61	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	When you reach twelve, you wonder if it is Judas!	The twelfth reason to read this collection is the twelfth story, \\"1408\\". It is a banal story about a haunted room, in a banal New York City hotel. When we start reading it we think: \\"One more story about...\\" But we do read it and discover it is not one more story about... It is not even a rewriting of the haunted room in \\"The Shining\\" or some other haunted room or house King uses so often. It is different. Not different in what happens inside the room. But different in what happens before and what happens after. Before we have a description of all the evil things this room has caused. And this is spooky, but after all it might only be coincidental. But after it is different because then we have the description of a survivor, of one who has lived something horrible through and has survived it. And this is not spooky anymore but only realistic and true. The state of the body and the mind of the survivor is what anyone can check and even touch any time in psychiatric wards or in burntvictims wards. And this is so real, so true, that it makes the story itself true and real. And that is spooky. Are we supposed to accept all the tales those survivors tell us? Are all those survivors really crazy or have they really lived through something horrible? Both probably and we cannot sort out either. A strong and powerful experience can put your body and brain akimbo on both side of an immense hole that attracts and rejects you at the same time. Oh, how sweet it could be to just jump into that hole and get lost into its darkness of its light, according to the moments and the fancy you may have in your head. Rush and read it. Even if this story dedicated to the number 13, to a room situated on the 13th floor of a hotel (even if it is numbered 14), and whose figures sum up to 13, has not been set as the 13th story in the collection, though it deserved it. But after all it is the twelfth story and has to be Judas in flesh and bone and his twenty silver pieces.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-08
US	50989966	R1DRPEGGC2V818	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The ninth reason, the Devil's reason	The ninth reason to read this collection is the ninth story, \\"The Road Virus Heads North\\", and nine is the number of the Devil. I had liked this story in \\"999\\", but here I love it. it is pure suspense, pure fear, pure fright. It is an opening in the basement of the world out of which the fiery blood of all creatures of the night springs in the shape of a car, a vampire, a bomb, a werewolf, ... And Stephen King is one of the best at sending such plagues onto us, his faithful and regular readers, and we like it. So rush and read, and eventually drool with unfathomable scared horror. The end will let you panting with no relief and hardly able to breathe for fresh air. So, just go out and enjoy the moon in the sky, but don't forget your scarf: there is always a virus travelling along some road, to the North or the South, who cares, or who scares?<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-06
US	50989966	R2ZGL1UG5K35A	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	The eighth reason to read this collection	It is &quot;LT's Theory of Pets&quot;. It is funny how pets are both love presents and divorce tools. A cat versus a dog, a man versus a woman, or vice versa in both cases. Pets lead to divorce just as marriage and love lead to pets. But one offers a pet to his/her love because one likes the pet and somewhere maybe hates his/her partner. And pets are aggravating circumstances because they do all they can to break asunder the two partners who pretend to love each other, and they probably do, both the partners love each other and the pets break them asunder. But the end of the story is not that funny because of the interference of a serial killer in the business and a deadly and bloody ending. Rush to it. You will love it. Yes, Dear Abby is right, the giving of pets &quot;is an exercise in arrogance&quot;. And we all fall into  the trap one day or another, one way or another. Why don't we stick to flowers and plants?<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan.	2003-03-06
US	50989966	RRKZCV905KVO9	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The seventh reason to read this collection is heavenly	Stephen King does not hesitate to explore socially-oriented situations and the short story \\"Everything's Eventual\\" is in the best tradition of \\"The Dead Zone\\" or \\"Firestarter\\" or even \\"The Stand\\". If you have a special power and you are recruited by an organization whose aim is to clean up the planet of pacifists and progressive people, and you finally find out their aim, what do you do? Sit still and enjoy the fringe benefits, or destroy the tree that nourishes you? The dilemma is important and real. If you know someone who is crazy enough to press on the red button and that someone is going to be elected or is elected to the red-button-pressing-power-position, what do you do? If you have Hitler in front of you before he seizes power, and you know what he is going to do, what do you do? Does any individual have the right to straighten up the wrong he knows is going to happen? This story is definitely a mind-raker and a consciousness-enhancer. Go read the collection, if you don't want to miss an essential milestone in our consciousness.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-04
US	50989966	R1Q7YNPZSVO0DA	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Each story is one more reason to read the collection.	The sixth reason is &quot;The little Sisters of Eluria&quot; in which you will recognize Roland Deschain of Gilead, just starting on his long pilgrimage to the Dark Tower. He is still naive and innocent, or is he really innocent? He gets into a strange abandoned city with a bizarre population of mutants and nuns of a new type: they don't like gold nor God, they are hospitalers and use some bugs as doctors, and they love their customers, their sick people for their deepest and funniest nourishment. This will encourage you to buy all the Dark Tower volumes and read them as fresh water on a hot summer day. The naivety of Roland in this story is so important that you will smile and that will give you a taste of what Roland is not and will never be in the Dark Tower novels. Rush! The Little Sisters of Eluria may not wait for you.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-03
US	50989966	ROGYQM8EZ2XZ1	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A fifth reason to read this book	The fifth reason is \\"In the Deathroom\\". This confrontation of the hero to \\"private\\" interrogation in the cellar of the Information Ministry of some dictatorship is the acme of fear and resourcefulness. There is always a way out from this ordeal. Most of the time it is death. Some of the time it is spitting it all out (rarely). And if a miracle happens it is by escaping. Stephen King chose the most improbable solution, but the only interesting thing is how. Read the story to know. But the worst part of it is the unfathomable damage such an experience can leave behind in the mind of the happy victim. Isn't it better to die in such circumstances? Stephen King should now write the other side of the story: the torturing methods our democracies use to impose squareness to those who have lost or have never had the concept of a straight line and prefer going through the rabbit hole along the way to discover what is off limits. But any reader can just imagine what torturing can be in a civilized world where electricity is not used for such endeavours.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-03-02
US	50989966	R1VQ3SOWTOELZV	0375411992	838568330	Blackwood Farm (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Eternal life is so human	Anne Rice, in this new episode of the Vampire Chronicles, blends Lestat and his vampiric world completely with the Mayfairs and their bewitching universe. It sure is not the first time, but the second, after Merrick Mayfair and her recent adventures. But this time things are slightly more intricate. The hero of this volume, the newly made vampire Tarquin Blackwood, has always been a viewer of spirits and ghosts. He has always been haunted, with his love and his total submission and acceptance, by a certain Goblin. The turning point is when Tarquin meets, by accident, Mona Mayfair, a young fifteen year old witch of the Mayfair family, the future heiress of the whole Mayfair planet and empire, and our Tarquin just decides to fall in love with her and she responds with the similar decision of falling in love with him. But then he discovers that he is a direct descendant of Julien Mayfair, an old uncle in the family, dead in 1914. He learns it from Julien's own mouth and that explains his ability to see ghosts, but this does not explain who Goblin is. He will discover little by little that this Goblin is becoming stronger and stronger and that he is also becoming meaner and meaner with him and the people he loves. The rest is of course unexplainable here. I do not want to reveal how this Goblin will disappear from the world and go back to God.<br />But I would like to insist on the meaning of the book, the metaphorical meaning. Anne Rice never writes  for the only sake of writing and for the sheer pleasure of writing. She writes about our world. She is a metaphoricist at heart. So what does she tell us about the world? She tells us that the world is not a realm of equality and justice, and that those who have power and money can help the others, even to reform their ways and become better. She tells us that the intelligence of a person has little to do with the environment in which this person is born or raised, but only with the opportunities that person is provided with in life and the world. Thus an intelligence can be spoiled by the lack of opportunities and an intelligence can be saved and even redeemed by opportunities offered to its carrier. But there is more. This book also tells us that the worst evil we can come across in this world is the vengeful and scornful and angry cry for justice from a person or people who have been, by accident or intentionally, the victims of an injustice, an alienation, a frustration. Anne Rice is telling us that such people may come to blind hate and destructiveness. But she also tells us that we may be just as blind and destructive if we do not know or understand the causes of this frustration and alienation, that we are, unawares maybe, responsible for this alienation and frustration. So we have to save the victims from what we have unwillfully and unintentionally (all the more if it was willful and intentional) caused and compensate for the consequences of our acts and free these victims of their anger, frustration and alienation, even if it may costs us dearly. Our responsibility is at least engaged because we have been blind of the situation and have done nothing to correct it. The victim is in no way responsible for the consequences of our acts. This is marvellously said, demonstrated and illustrated by Anne Rice in this novel.<br />Rush out and buy it at once. And read it in one single go.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignanith in life and the world. Thus an intelligence can be spoiled by the lack of opportunities and an intelligence can be saved and even redeemed by opportunities offered to its carrier. But there is more. This book also tells us that the worst evil we can come across in this world is the vengeful and scornful and angry cry for justice from a person or people who have been, by accident or intentionally, the victims of an injustice, an alienation, a frustration. Anne Rice is telling us that such people may come to blind hate and destructiveness. But she also tells us that we may be just as blind and destructive if we do not know or understand the causes of this frustration and alienation, that we are, unawares maybe, responsible for this alienation and frustration. So we have to save the victims from what we have unwillfully and unintentionally (all the more if it was willful and intentional) caused and compensate for the consequences of our acts and free these victims of their anger, frustration and alienation, even if it may costs us dearly. Our responsibility is at least engaged because we have been blind of the situation and have done nothing to correct it. The victim is in no way responsible for the consequences of our acts. This is marvellously said, demonstrated and illustrated by Anne Rice in this novel.<br />Rush out and buy it at once. And read it in one single go.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2003-02-24
US	50989966	R2UB9UBW58BLPZ	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	A great subject neating about the bush.	The subject, the midlife crisis of a sportswriter in some important national magazine in New York, caused by the death of his son and the subsequent divorce asked by his wife, is interesting. The life of this well off professional journalist in some rather distant middle class and upper middle class ciry in New Jersey is also interesting. His new affait with a black nurse who took care of him in the hospital after some accident of his could lead to some fascinating exploration. Unluckily the very unobvious navigation from the past to the present, from one place to another seems to imply that the main character in the novel has developed a severe case of disorganised time and space, of time and space jetlag that makes the novel very difficult to read and the meaning very difficult to decipher. It could have been a great book but is only very average....	2003-02-21
US	50989966	RUXGVOJ901EQD	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Caste is beautiful but caste society is ugly	This Indian novel is a masterpiece. It is first of all a picaresque novel about India, Indian society and Indira Gandhi's political power when she was the Prime Minister. As such it gives us a description of this society over a thirty years' period of time. It shows the formidable alienating caste system in which some are rejected from society as if they were animals, reduced to living on the crumbs the other upper castes condescend to give them or let them have directly from the mud of the path. Torture, harrassing, mutilations, castrations, pure executions, vengeance against any possible change : the untouchables are pariahs in their society and all members of the upper castes can do what they want with them and to them, and they are beyond the reach of justice of any other institution, especially because the government uses the upper castes to impose their will and power.<br />Yet we are presented with the life adventures of several people from various castes, from various religions and their relations in this Indian society that cannot live without ordering in a way or another some massacres of one particular type of people every so often to pacify the social climate and to alleviate social problems or conflicts with the old scapegoat strategy. Now the Muslims, then the Sikhs, then any other group of people, and always the untouchables as the permanent scapegoats. But it can also encourage all kinds of superstitions against witches among others, all kinds of religious narrow-mindedness, all kinds of bigotry on any subject.<br />But our characters go beyond this bigotry and try to survive and implement their free enterprising will and desire in this society. They can succeed for a while, with the help of a beggarmaster, provided they pay a regular fee to get this protection. But in the end the beggarmaster dies, the protection disappears and the uppercaste ruffians catch up on the running away untouchables and every thing falls into the pit of an unimaginable horror : one goes back to her rich brother but becomes his housemaid and turns blind ; her two tailors become mutilated perambulating bodies that are reduced to turning beggars ; the last one, the student who is from a well-off family and has had the chance to study enough to get a technical degree is finally pushed into suicide when he discovers the fate of all his ex-friends. There is no redemption at all for this society and for these characters. There is only destruction and final vaporization in this society that may only tolerate them as marginal ghosts on the fringes of normal life. Any attempt at being free entreprising beings in this society is paid with the unavoidable and total perdition : and yet their souls do survive even if it leads to suicide, as a sign of recapturing the beauty of old times and of old feelings and emotions.<br />This enduring story should make us think about the great failure of progress : no one can stop it, slow it down, but it will always be captured by the ambitious politicians or capitalists who will understand it justifies their violence and it can bring them hefty benefits and profits, even if they have to break and throw away many eggs to make this progressive omelette.<br />It is a haunting novel that has the total right to possess us into the most drastic and dark vision of humanity and its road to a better - if better it is - society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignanr : one goes back to her rich brother but becomes his housemaid and turns blind ; her two tailors become mutilated perambulating bodies that are reduced to turning beggars ; the last one, the student who is from a well-off family and has had the chance to study enough to get a technical degree is finally pushed into suicide when he discovers the fate of all his ex-friends. There is no redemption at all for this society and for these characters. There is only destruction and final vaporization in this society that may only tolerate them as marginal ghosts on the fringes of normal life. Any attempt at being free entreprising beings in this society is paid with the unavoidable and total perdition : and yet their souls do survive even if it leads to suicide, as a sign of recapturing the beauty of old times and of old feelings and emotions.<BR>This enduring story should make us think about the great failure of progress : no one can stop it, slow it down, but it will always be captured by the ambitious politicians or capitalists who will understand it justifies their violence and it can bring them hefty benefits and profits, even if they have to break and throw away many eggs to make this progressive omelette.<BR>It is a haunting novel that has the total right to possess us into the most drastic and dark vision of humanity and its road to a better - if better it is - society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan	2002-12-31
US	50989966	R2UEJ4F5S19D25	0316548189	848381140	Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Read this book to free your soul of wrong illusions	Nelson Mandela is a born story teller. He tells us his life in details from his childhood to the historical vote of 1994. He is a real artist in his way to link his past experiences, even those of the time when he was a child, to his present consciousness, which enables us to link the past and the present in the most enriching and enlightening way. He hides nothing about his life and about his commitment to the freedom of South Africa, insisting on the fact that the freedom of the Blacks could only be achieved if the whole South African, if all the segments of the population could become free in South Africa itself. He insists on the fact that even the whites were not free before 1994, under apartheid, because they were the slaves of prejudices and misconceptions of what humanity and human values are and have to be. His inspiration is deeply christian, but also deeply rooted in African traditions, because he is an Africanist first, hence he assumes this fundamental value that all Africans share, when their traditions have not been warped by outside influences or actions, that all men and all women and all human beings are brothers and sisters, deeply equal, but in their variety, in their diversity, in their multiplicity. To negate this diversity is the first and most egotistical sin of any human being because this leads to the rejection of one particular type of human beings just because they are different, no matter what the difference might or may be. Hence his struggle meets the struggle of those who want to free humanity of social segregation and social unequality, among whom he met, and worked with, the Communists who he always refused to reject when he finally made up his mind that the only road to freedom was a road on which all freedom fighters, no matter who they may happen to be, have to walk, struggle and even fight together, and this struggle is far from being finished and completed today. This book is a book of hope that shows that a free mind, or a people aspiring for freedom, cannot be in any way destroyed by even more than twenty-seven years in prison, because even in prison this mind, this people will fight to improve the lot of everyone. The struggle for freedom never ends and freedom means understanding the others, even your oppressor, because in everyone, even in this oppressor, there is some desire to free themselves of what has to be called their alienation, and we are all alienated to something or some situation because our eyes are never wide open enough. Even the eyes that are widest open are somewhere, more or less, shut to something they should learn to see, they should learn to appreciate, even if they don't know what it is yet.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Perpignan Universityple aspiring for freedom, cannot be in any way destroyed by even more than twenty-seven years in prison, because even in prison this mind, this people will fight to improve the lot of everyone. The struggle for freedom never ends and freedom means understanding the others, even your oppressor, because in everyone, even in this oppressor, there is some desire to free themselves of what has to be called their alienation, and we are all alienated to something or some situation because our eyes are never wide open enough. Even the eyes that are widest open are somewhere, more or less, shut to something they should learn to see, they should learn to appreciate, even if they don't know what it is yet.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Perpignan University	2002-12-09
US	50989966	R8RV2GUSTDE6K	0451205464	753340557	Oblivion's Altar:: A Novel of Courage	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Death is at times the condition to survival!	David Marion Wilkinson wrote there a fine and fascinating novel on the policy of the US vis-&agrave;-vis the Cherokee people and fate. As soon as the Cherokee were confronted to the presence of the whites they realized that their living circumstances had changed. To face the upsurging wave of arriving whites, they had to make choices. They chose integration at first and decided to invest in the education of their children, the development their agriculture on the white pattern, the wide openong of their clans to whites through marriages producing an important proportion of mixed-bloods who will imprint a strong change in their society. So they invented an alphabet for their language and started a printed newspaper, that still exists. They also translated the Bible into Cherokee and adopted a constitution modelled on that of the US, which more or less imposed a regression in the role of women in their society. They tried to build a nation that was integratable in US society because organized on similar lines, though retaining their language, their culture, many of their traditions (including their religion based on a single god, the Great Provider) and their defiant spirit. But there came a time when the choice imposed by the whites was between two evils : to move west on the basis of a more or less negotiated treaty or to wait for the coming of US soldiers and other militia to be dislodged from their land. The choice was between an attachment to the people and their survival or to the country, the territory, the land of their ancestors. Some leaders did not understand that the second choice was just unrealistic in front of white decisions and will. Some understood the dead-end in which they were and negociated their departure. This led to the peaceful and rather orderly departure of some, behind Chief Ridge and later on to the painful and cruel forced departure of the others with bayonets in their backs on the Trail of Tears. The novel explores the deep motivations of the leaders of each faction and their contradictions. The depicting of such complex convictions and feelings is done in such details that the book becomes a saga or even an epic of Cherokee survival in the wake of their Trail of Tears. The book also tries to bring to light the personality and rich heritage of Chief Ridge, a man who has been completely evacuated from Cherokee memory. It is thus a call for his rehabilitation nearly two centuries later, some kind of reunification of Cherokee purpose in present-day American society.<br />But the best side of the book is the deep inspiration the author found in an extremely careful exploration of Cherokee culture, Cherokee mythology and Cherokee history. His rendering of the Trail of Tears in one of the final chapters is a marvelous evocation of the suffering and yet of the hope of the Cherokee, of the cruelty of the whites and yet of their christian compassion, of the danger of complete extinction of the Cherokee on this trail and yet the fantastic will to survive and to thrive after the ordeal. Never do we have the impression to be in a history book, but always in a human, humane and deeply felt account of events always captured from the point of view of their various actors, including Sharp Knife better known as President Andrew Jackson. And that is the best and worst part of this story : the whites did not try to annihilate the Cherokee essentially out of hatred for the Red Indians, but out of the will to avoid a civil war coming from a possible secession of southern states. And this attempt, which was successful by isolating South Carolina who refused the federal power of Congress, did not avoid the Civil War that was to come thirty years later. The Cherokee were sacrificed for no avail, at the best some respite or delay. That's what appears as most striking about the whites : they are most of the time governed by short term interests and do not see the wider and longer picture. In other words, their desire to impose their civilization, a desire that is always dominant in their way of looking at the world, is here ever present and this is a beautiful lesson in modern politics, because some Americans, often in powerful positions and offices, are still thinking and acting along that line, that we must definitely consider as imperialistic. The novel is thus more modern than we may think at first sight.<br />Everyone who is interested in America and the American project for the world, and the US have a project for the world, has to read this book to get new and invigorating insight in the subject.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan, Francetheir civilization, a desire that is always dominant in their way of looking at the world, is here ever present and this is a beautiful lesson in modern politics, because some Americans, often in powerful positions and offices, are still thinking and acting along that line, that we must definitely consider as imperialistic. The novel is thus more modern than we may think at first sight.<br />Everyone who is interested in America and the American project for the world, and the US have a project for the world, has to read this book to get new and invigorating insight in the subject.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan, France	2002-11-03
US	50989966	R2HSJMP95V26CO	0316353299	53525621	Blue Highways: A Journey into America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	America's history is lying away from the Interstates	This book of travels is fascinating because the author takes his subject from an angle that we are not used to. He decides to tour America using only the blue highways, those highways that are not Interstates nor even US highways. So he gets away from the motoring crowd and discovers another America, an America that lives in some tradition, in some order that is based on stable connections with nature and with social communities. He also tries to discover America and its history by meeting people and exploring local history, the history of small villages or cities and their citizens. His history is more story than history but it is very human and deeply fed with a culture that the franchised facade we know everyday may us think it has completely disappeared, or even that it has never existed. This constant delving into the deeper layers of our reality is giving us some energy to resist the franchising process and to look for men and women who have made this country and are still giving this country some tasty flesh and thrilling energy. We are glad to understand that America really is what we hope it is, a deeply human and humane culture and not only the fast-running and media-superficial Internet glasswindow that hides the back-shop and the men who work behind the wings.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan.	2002-10-16
US	50989966	R1PIY9383R02W6	0446363073	928512799	Midnight Graffiti	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A gallery of styles	This collection of horror short stories is exceptional because of the wide range of styles and stories it contains. The reader will not be lost in a jungle of imaginations because the book is organized in five chapters that are each dedicated to one type of atmosphere and plot. Hence when you start one chapter you know what continent of horror you are entering and you will get variety within that landscape. Some stories are absolutely stunning and fascinating. I found « Say hello, Mister Quigley » by J. Michael Straczynski too gentle on the incestuous father. Of course the victim has to forgive, but most of the time this forgiving is impossible because of the damage caused by the incestuous parent. I loved « Bob the Dinosaur » by Joe Lansdale because it shows how kids live on the illusion of a dream that is shattered by reality when it becomes true, when it gets satisfied. It is better to live on dreams even if they are disturbing, particularly for the parents' everyday life. Finally « Dark Embrace » by James Van Hise is a refreshing vision of vampires associated to a sickening vision of child molesting. Vampires become, in a way, gentle and lovable, even if they are monsters, when you compare them to child molesters who kill to cover up their tracks when their pleasure is satisfied. Vampires are also very human and long for company and love. Which a child molester never long for. He longs for brutal contact (rape) and absolute solitude that makes him kill his victim because he is entirely enslaved by his desire, his perverted passion for kids.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan at Mende.	2002-09-24
US	50989966	R2KAXZCD61EM3B	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incest a new crime	This book is an essential memoir in the field of education. The education of young children and then teenagers. They are confronted to all kinds of ambiguous and contradictory experiences and they have to build up their own psyches and visions of the world from what they understand, experience and at times suffer in the world. This book deals with a recent historical period when some incestuous practices that had been common place and perfectly neglected by all authorities for ages came to the front and were considered as criminal at long last. We must widen the scope and consider imposed sexual practices from adults onto young children and teenagers. The latter do not know what sex is, though they live the sexual drive intensely. They can be manipulated and used by adults. They have to learn about sex all by themselves. The point is that incest warps the learning because parents are natural models for the kids and what they say is naturally the rule, the law, the truth. If parents sexually meddle with their children, they warp the perception these have of this essential human activity. Then the kids react and build their own personalities from these warped experiences. That leads to a complete mix-up that can bring the young people to all kinds of despaired attitudes : suicide, revulsion, criminal drive, rebellion, etc. This book shows how Donald D'Haene managed to go through it, build by himself and for himself some kind of balanced grown-up life. He chose confrontation and was half-heartedly followed by the social authorities that should have followed him entirely. That is because he was the first or one of the first to come up with the denunciation of such practices in a society where it had been neglected and ignored for centuries, in fact forever. It should be a beacon in our consciousness that life is complex and requires a lot of courage to come to terms with its hardships or crimes, with victimization and the pangs of growing up. The main lesson is that growing up can only be successful if one confronts one's past and comes to terms, no matter what and which, with it. It is a lesson of courage on the side of the individual and a denunciation of the half-measures a society takes in such fields as incest. The general idea that governs social services in such cases is that the kid has to be protected but that the family unit must not be broken up. The society tries to deter but does not want to intervene in family matters as long as it can ignore them. A must on the reading-list of any educator and social worker, or even psychologist or psychiatrist. The conclusion I may put forward is that we have to be careful in such fields because at times an insufficiently thought about act from « social » services might be more harmful than helpful. A criminal has to be punished but the punishment must be seen not as a deterrent in society but as a helping hand for the victims to grow through the crisis such crimes build up in them. The prime concern has to be the victims and not the perpetrators of the crimes nor society. This is a new approach to social behavior and it is far from being a won battle. Especially since sex deals in everyone of us with the deepest layers of our beings, the deepest drives of our psyches and necessarily the guilt one develops at only having « unhuman » desires (and I don't say unnatural because man is not a purely natural animal any more but a social and historical being), and I am afraid everyone has or has had such desires and everyone develops some guilt concerning them.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan.wing up can only be successful if one confronts one's past and comes to terms, no matter what and which, with it. It is a lesson of courage on the side of the individual and a denunciation of the half-measures a society takes in such fields as incest. The general idea that governs social services in such cases is that the kid has to be protected but that the family unit must not be broken up. The society tries to deter but does not want to intervene in family matters as long as it can ignore them. A must on the reading-list of any educator and social worker, or even psychologist or psychiatrist. The conclusion I may put forward is that we have to be careful in such fields because at times an insufficiently thought about act from « social » services might be more harmful than helpful. A criminal has to be punished but the punishment must be seen not as a deterrent in society but as a helping hand for the victims to grow through the crisis such crimes build up in them. The prime concern has to be the victims and not the perpetrators of the crimes nor society. This is a new approach to social behavior and it is far from being a won battle. Especially since sex deals in everyone of us with the deepest layers of our beings, the deepest drives of our psyches and necessarily the guilt one develops at only having « unhuman » desires (and I don't say unnatural because man is not a purely natural animal any more but a social and historical being), and I am afraid everyone has or has had such desires and everyone develops some guilt concerning them.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan.	2002-09-14
US	50989966	R1XXNKQD44K268	0140434917	616146466	The Hunting of the Snark : An Agony in Eight Fits (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Ahead of his time	Lewis Carroll is brilliant in this piece. First of all the poetical music is perfect, absolutely perfect, and yet the words don't mean much. Many of these words are not even to be found in any dictionary. Be it only for the music, this piece is astonishingly good. But the piece has a meaning. I will not enter the numerical value of the numbers used in the poem : 3, 42, 6, 7, 20, 10, 992, 8, and I am inclined to say etc because some are more or less hidden here and there in the lines. Hunting for these numbers is like hunting for the snark, an illusion. But the general meaning of the poem is a great allegory to social and political life. A society, any society gives itself an aim, a target, a purpose and everyone is running after it without even knowing what it is. What is important in society is not what you are running after or striving for, but only the running and the striving. Lewis Carroll is thus extremely modern in this total lack of illusions about society, social life and politics : just wave a flag of any kind, or anything that can be used as a flag and can be waved, in front of the noses of people and they will run after it or run in the direction it indicates. They love roadsigns and social life is a set of roadsigns telling you where to go. Everyone goes there, except of course the roadsigns themselves who never go in the direction they indicate. Lewis Carroll is thus the first post-modern poet of the twenty-first century. He just lived a little bit too early.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-08-17
US	50989966	R2I28K33D82YN8	0060291508	718203903	Alice's Adventures in Wonderland	Books	5	4	10	N	N	Alice and her "wonderlust"	Lewis Carroll is a great author for kids and he represents a completely new phase in children's literature. Children are children and they only have grown-up age in front of them as a limited world and a perspective, the latter of which they may change when they are grown up by remembering what childhood was for them and the tales they entertained when they were children in order to tell them to a new generation of children. Lewis Carroll leads Alice into a world where everyday objects and animals, but also strange objects and animals, mix. Everything is right and wrong at the same time. Too small or too big. Everything speaks and tells stories or sings songs that remind Alice of songs she knows but that come out strange and distorted. This whole world of wonderland is a suddenly animated pack of cards in a doll's house and doll's garden. But at the same time Lewis Carroll invests the fears and the fantasms of the child into this world. We then can have and see a father figure and a mother figure that loom high in this world and represent a completely aborted sense of justice. Alice, the child, becomes the one who puts things together and back to straightness by just dreaming this disrupted world awake. She only nostalgically remembers the fascination that was hers and the strangeness that was that world's. Waking up brings her back to normality and clears this wonderland of the menaces it contained. Lewis Carroll is a genius when he thus depicts a world of fear and frustration and shows how this world can become marvellous in real life because it is the antipodes of everyday regular society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-08-02
US	50989966	R26NVNAK23D5SW	0824059638	377891991	The Last Tycoon (F Scott Fitzgerald Manuscripts Vol)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Love in a power-hungry jungle	F. Scott Fitzgerald probably had there his real masterpiece, but he did not have the time to finish it. The social and political background, the film industry in Hollywood, was perfect for the kind of intrigues and characters he tried to depict. The period brought a sense of absolute confrontation between the leaders of the industry and the workers, writers, scenographers, technicians, etc. The communist manipulation of the situation was just as effective and real as that by the capital-owners, and this confrontation enabled some social-climbers and some violent power-hungry individuals to take over, when they deemed it necessary or possible, from those who had a cultural and even artistic vision. This artistic vision was not in anyway exclusive of the economic consideration that a film had to make money, but led to the idea that some films had to be so good that they did lose some money bringing a certain aura to the producer. Fitzgerald was also dealing with characters who had a private and emotional life, though mostly an emotional instability that made them desire a dream more than real achievement. Love was never a real consideration. It was at the most a side-kick in life. And that dimension of human life is marvellously shown in the unfinished manuscript. Love is a mixture of memory, dreaming, hoping, need, desire, lust, and social use, at times social escape. This is a final version of love from a man who had probably seen it all and was more than ready to leave this life behind. Unluckily he left it a little bit too soon.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-07-31
US	50989966	R2OYYCN4P25SX7	0715373803	269076347	Peel's England	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Go and see by yourself	J.H.B. Peel invites us onto a voyage through England, but not the England of the mortorways and highways, but that of back roads and paths or lanes. He looks for the eternal England that can even survive the modern or postmodern world of urban development or sprawl. He goes to small hamlets and well hidden places behind the woods or beyond the fields. He also mixes into his text all his knowledge about the history of England going back to the Anglo-Saxons and crossing some ten centuries of events and memories often borrowed from poets, writers and other important personages. It is quaint, and attractive because of this quaintness. It is an England that we rarely see because we rarely make the effort to get out of the way, to follow the rabbit that escapes through a hole in some hedge. Yet it is not a nostalgic book, because it does not reject modern development, it just looks for what things used to be and still are behind the main modernistic decor of supermarkets, cars and parking lots. And with some training we can even discover the quaint house that still stands among modern apartment blocks as the witness of the many centuries without which England would not be England.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-07-28
US	50989966	R36H4EXSDNNOR1	0718501969	314057438	Old New Zealand and Other Writings (Literature of Travel, Exploration and Empire)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The first impact of European influence	F.E. Maning was one of those Englismen who arrived in New Zealand before its being integrated in the British Empire. He became a Pakeha Maori, the personal « property » of a Maori chief, trading with his tribe in many articles particularly muskets and gunpowder. The book is interesting because it describes the Maori civlization before its being completely destroyed by colonialization. But it is of great interest in its showing the direct influence of European culture, particularly of the musket, on the fate of the Maoris from the very start of the European presence. Before, this warlike people was living in forts positioned on hilltops and on cliffs, that is to say in dry and healthy places. Only their agriculture was concerned by the low lands that were cultivated. This location of the forts and villages was perfectly well adapted to the use of the spear to defend them. With the musket everything changed. It was necessary, for it being used in best conditions, for the Maoris to move their forts and villages to the lowlands. This made them live in swamps, in very unhealthy territories. Their wars were changed, some of their customs were also changed and their habitat was changed. This last element caused the propagation of serious diseases among the population, causing its reduction over a few decades. This book is thus a perfect testimony about the changes colonialization brought to those populations, those people who some like to describe as primitive.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-07-26
US	50989966	R1C71044BX243E	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Is America one?	John Steinbeck decides to tour the US from coast to coast and then back to try to capture the country and its inhabitants, to capture the soul of America. His decision to travel alone, with his dog Charley, in a big camper, incognito, is a risky decision. Risky for his security : you can be attacked by anyone in some isolated areas. Risky for his mental state because it means solitude and the necessity to speak and converse with total strangers he meets on the road, here and there, and this solitary adventure is kind of difficult for him because he is not always capable of being receptive to the unknown others. Risky too for his intellectual welfare because he meets with people and circumstances that force him to think and to question his own personal convictions. The first conclusion he finds is that in fact this last risk is not that great because one, and he is no different from anyone else, only looks at things and sees things that one is ready to see and look at. In  other words he discovers that tourism, since his trip is nothing but tourism of some kind, does not really enable the tourist to see with virginal eyes. The tourist can only see with his cultured and cultivated eyes. The second conclusion he comes too is that all Americans are fundamentally alike, share some fundamental truths and characteristics. Yet he does not see the contradiction there is in such an assertion with the fact that he discovers some extreme form of racism in the south that is grappling the first moments of school integration. He feels nothing in common with the racist whites and he cannot really get in contact, in touch with the few blacks he meets and who resist any exchange, closing themselves up in some kind of cautious silence and artificial humble attitude to prevent any provacative action or reaction from the whites. He does not see either the contradiction between his belief that all Americans share some fundamental values and his conviction that he as a tourist projects his own vision on the reality he tries to scrutinize. These fundamental common elements seem to be in the eye of the author. He is defending the principle of the melting pot, the blacks and the indians not being taken into account, and he goes thus against history that sees the emergence of the black civil right movement at this time and will see the emergence of numerous other movements of the same kind over the following decades : native Americans, gay people, women and their liberation, hispanics, etc. He is not able to conceive the salad bowl the US is going to become in the wake of multiculturalism. An interesting book that gives us a series of perfectly well dated snapshots of the US and does not avoid some unpleasant realities he comes across.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUs own vision on the reality he tries to scrutinize. These fundamental common elements seem to be in the eye of the author. He is defending the principle of the melting pot, the blacks and the indians not being taken into account, and he goes thus against history that sees the emergence of the black civil right movement at this time and will see the emergence of numerous other movements of the same kind over the following decades : native Americans, gay people, women and their liberation, hispanics, etc. He is not able to conceive the salad bowl the US is going to become in the wake of multiculturalism. An interesting book that gives us a series of perfectly well dated snapshots of the US and does not avoid some unpleasant realities he comes across. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-07-25
US	50989966	R1U4F9T5R41FGK	3895084603	981429693	Travels With a Donkey (Konemann Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Looking for the Camisards in the Loz&egrave;re Mountains	R.L. Stevenson writes here the first account of a touristic journey in France. He is the first modern tourist. He penetrates and discovers the country and the people of what he calls the Loz&egrave;re, this mountain range in the south of The Central mountains in France, a range of mountains that was the locale of a protestant rebellion at the very beginning of the eighteenth century, severely repressed by Louis XIV. These protestant insurgers are known as the Camisards. Stevenson tries to discover the landscape, the natural setting of this insurrection and tries to show how the insurrection was connected to the very nature of these mountains. He also shows how no repression can change a person or a population. These old Camisards are still alive in the memory and the customs and ways of the protestant population of this region. It is the survival of this faith that interests and fascinates Stevenson. He also notices that the catholics and the protestants, at the time of his travels, lived in harmony but with an absolute divide between the two communities. A young catholic man who married a protestant girl and changed his faith in the process was unanimously condemned for this breach of loyalty. This book is also a perfect example of what tourism can and must be : the discovery of the visited people's mentality, culture, way of life, and the connection of these with the surrounding nature, and not only a quick look at monuments and other (un)perishable. One has to live with the people, no matter how little, to eat the people's food and to be in contact with the people in order to discuss general and particular subjects and to understand their way of thinking and behaving. Thus tourism becomes an adventure even in the heart of the most civilized country and only a couple of miles away from a railroad.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-06-29
US	50989966	R1VF9T4CEZ7XN5	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Witch-hunting is alas universal	Arthur Miller wrote this play to oppose the McCarthy witch-hunt. This aspect has aged. But the play keeps a universal value in the way it describes how, in any closed society, in this case religiously closed, all those who do not conform the pattern will be prosecuted and executed. It shows with great depth the process of accusing the victims and how the victims are trapped between their refusal to lie due to their religious faith, and their desire to survive even if it is by lying. But the situation is so tense that this lying becomes impossible because it implies accusing others, hence it goes against the grain of any moral and human behavior. This is still true in our world. As soon as something does not go the way we want it to go, we look for scapegoats and we accuse them of being the disturbing elements. This has been true with the Jews, the Gipsies and some others under Hitler. This has been true of all those who opposed the regime under Stalin. This is still true in our societies in many areas. We are always ready to start a crusade against the outsiders and those who are different to defend our own order. And in such situations private life in invaded, the rights of individuals are negated. Any « purification » policy is built on a whole set of tyrannical actions. Arthur Miller reaches a universal meaning when he says such actions are true of any society at any time. A society seems to always look for some homogenized unity, rejecting diversity with great ease. The new element that may be seen today in some societies is the protection of minorities by the law. But the temptation remains.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-06-29
US	50989966	R22XURT6BH3OV7	0684801558	958015468	The Beautiful and Damned	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Those rich kids are the victims of their education	In this novel, F. Scott Fitzgerald is extremely cruel with his characters and society. A young couple of the generation that came of age just before the First World War, were both born in extremely rich families and were educated for the vainest of all lives, high life and no work. They only knew the value of money for what its possession could provide them with : luxury, parties, alcohol, shows, etc. But they did not know at all what working to earn it could mean. Fitzgerald explores in the tiniest details the descent to hell for these two young people and what they considered as their final salvation (the inheritance from the grandfather was finally given back to them by courts). But they have been dragged so low in their vain attempt at surviving without doing anything while waiting for the court decision, that they are plain misfits in society. They have a lot of money and can be wooed and courted by other members of the aristocratic class, but they are despised and they despise all the others. No moral or even social salvation, just a golden version of hell on earth. This novel is a masterpiece in explaining and showing how the education of a young man or a young girl is entirely responsible for the personalities and behaviors these young people will develop later on in life. Hence it is a deep book on education, the education of the children of the rich. They have to conquer their inheritance through their own achievements and efforts or work. This book by Fitzgerald is definitely the best I have read, so far, because it shows these simple truths in the cruellest and most unadorned painting...	2002-06-27
US	50989966	R20OLXYWHEZHL3	0192834207	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Perfect fun	This play by Shakespeare has had a tremendous influence. First it was trasnformed into an opera by Purcell under the title of The Fairy Queen. Second it was widely known in Germany at the time of Goethe, but under the title of The Walpurgis Night. Goethe himself alludes to it in Faust and composes his Walpurgis Night at the end of the Faust as the prolongation of the end of Shakespeare's play. What is interesting in this play is the fact that the world of spirits, the night in the forest are used as elements to create a marvellous and light comedy. No witchcraft in all this. An entertaining though slightly grotesque tale. The Queen and King of the fairies use their powers to make fun of simple men, even providing Bottoms with the head of an ass (an old practice from the Middle Ages when the bishop of the pope were shown as being asses in the Masses of Fools or of Asses, some « carnival » rites authorised by the Church). But what is most important in this play is the fact that the fairies, with all their antics, make three marriages possible, and that is the end of the play. Three marriages, two times three people, three men and three women, the sacred number of Salomon. This ending is a christian ending. And when we add to these three marriages the couple of the Queen and King of Fairies, we come to the number of four couples, which is the sign of perfect equilibrium in Shakespeare. We find such a  umber (four marriages) in As you Like It. Finally the whole play, or nearly it all, takes place in the night, the realm of Selene, the goddess of the night and the moon, who is only one of the three facets of Diana, the goddess of forests, animal life and hunting, whose third facet is Hecate, the goddess of death. This threeforld nature of Diana is constantly present in the play. It is the very symbol of the fairies. We must understand that for Shakespeare three is the number of disruption, chaos and the fairies bring chaos, though, in the end perfect equilibrium is achieved. The last element concerns the style of Shakespeare. He adapts his style to every character, moving from the highest and most perfect poetry with the King and Queen of fairies or with Theseus and Hippolyta, to a very simple language with the six (six again) craftsmen who prepare a play for Theseus and Hippolyta's wedding. In other words it is a light comedy that carries Shakespeare's whole art in its lines. A perfect introduction to this art, and with a lot of fun, thanks to the pranks fo Puck, a light-headed fairy of his own.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUved. The last element concerns the style of Shakespeare. He adapts his style to every character, moving from the highest and most perfect poetry with the King and Queen of fairies or with Theseus and Hippolyta, to a very simple language with the six (six again) craftsmen who prepare a play for Theseus and Hippolyta's wedding. In other words it is a light comedy that carries Shakespeare's whole art in its lines. A perfect introduction to this art, and with a lot of fun, thanks to the pranks fo Puck, a light-headed fairy of his own.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-06-13
US	50989966	R2BEH5BIGIU5HH	1563893002	102040050	Menz Insana	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Insanity as a sane escape	Christopher Fowler and John Bolton give us here a phenomenal comic strip. It is centered on the mental world in which people can really be free, themselves, without any restraint from society and from their own personal censorship. We are ourselves and free only on this mental level that lies beyond real life. Real life is grey, drab, sad, full of norms and predigested behaviors. The mental plane is free, full of colors, full of adventures. Everything is possible and we meet there the strangest beings we can imagine, all those who have left their bodies somewhere in the real world to live the freedom of their minds. But somewhere there is a myth : the desire of those liberated souls to go back to the real world and see their real bodies. They discover then that in the real world they live a life of total alienation, often pent up in some asylum, whereas on the mental plane they can be free and experience feelings that would be impossible in the real world, because on the mental plane they accept any absurdity as being freedom and real being. Yet, in a way, generally catastrophic from a social point of view, the mental state they are in on the mental plane, can free their social bodies and beings in real society by some supernormal, extranormal intervention. The drawing is creative and rich in colors and strange forms. On the mental plane everything is possible, and the drawing assumes this freedom to produce a vision of real freedom in insanity. We long for the possibility to be there and finally get rid of all our restraints. Even if life on the mental plane is only possible if our bodies are still alive in society, somewhere, in a way or another. A fascinating world that is given a tremendous force by a very creative language.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-05-29
US	50989966	R3RWW32VFQY7GV	0963837109	423819172	American Dream, American Burnout: How to Cope When It All Gets to Be Too Much	Books	4	0	0	N	N	When life is too much for you	Dr Gerald L. Fishkin brings us in this small book a good summary of the problem of modern life : we live under stressed conditions at work, in everyday life in general and in our homes and families. This stress creates anxiety, depression and eventually the burnout effect in people who can go as far as becoming completely alienated and longing for the end of their suffering, including in death. This is nothing new, but this is increased by two things : the ever-faster pace of our lifestyle and of course the simple fact that we live longer. The suffering is perfectly well described and the solutions are perfectly well explained with a strong emphasis on the fact that they have to come from within us, and if a no return point has been reached, they have to be inoculated inside us in order to reconstruct what stress may have destroyed. The most important fact in this book is that this burnout concerns everyone and first of all either those who have to deal with other people's problems like teachers, priests and doctors, or those who are constantly under the pressure of superiors or the demands of an unescapable system. But we must be very careful with this book because some of the symptoms of depression or burnout might be the symptoms of something completely different. It is useful to keep in mind that such a problem can only be dealt with with the help of a professional person. The main chracateristic of burnout is that a victim of it is unable to see it...	2002-05-08
US	50989966	R1KBRGOOSQZW4E	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The logic of the absurd	Joseph Heller has produced a masterpiece with this novel. A masterpiece of the absurd. The absurd of democracy. The democracy of the US armed forces. Any one has rights, but each right is blocked either because someone higher has the authority to block it, or because the implementation of this right shows that the subject does not qualify for this right. In such a situation there is only one solution : escapism. The situation is dramatic since we are in Italy during the second world war. Simple pilots and bombardiers have no say whatsoever on their fate or lot. Either it goes against the authority of someone higher up who makes them do what he wants to satisfy his own ambition. Or it goes against the general trafficking by the local entrepreneur in the armed forces who aims at making money on the war situation in the name of free enterprise, asking for the war to be privitized. Or it goes against circular rules that disqualify you as a beneficiary of these rules as soon as you ask for them to apply to you. Those questions are very serious. Where is the dignity of the warriors ? Where are the noble objectives of the war ? Where is the defense of the country in such a war ? Where are courage, loyalty, heroism when everything is mercantilized and speculated upon for the profit of a few ? And what does victory mean in such a situation where some are trafficking with the enemy in order to make money, even on the military operations themselves ? The world is absurd and one can only escape from it if one wants to retain one's sanity. But, as opposed to Kafka, this author uses humor and makes us laugh at such silly situations : it is a highly funny book, but in which any laugh or smile hides the sadness of the situations or facts with great difficulty. We would really like to get angry at such mediocre middlemen who dictate hell for other people in their own interest and can do that because these other people lack the courage to rebel, are like sheep following the flock without protesting.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUhout protesting.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-05-05
US	50989966	R1AE66PE6LDT1C	0573611300	742128485	The Kingfisher	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Quaint and delicious	This play is a sentimental and past-oriented vision of aristocratic society in England. The old bachelor who is nothing without his butler. The old widow who feels she is nothing without a husband. Both sharing recollections of their more or less wild younger years. It is full of tact, full of feeling and it is made as quaint and natural as a kingfisher, one of these superb little birds that live along a river. It is for the three characters a way to come back home to where they belong after a life of estrangement, of absence in the wide wild world. A social setting that has probably completely disappeared in this world. So it is more than quaint, it is nostalgic.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-04-12
US	50989966	R1FMUBG2DLJ77K	0140437878	698965388	Heartbreak House (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The absurd serving utopia	Bernard Shaw is a great playwright. In this particular play he exposes the shortcomings of English upper classes. They only think of mariage, business, politics, but England is in fact a drunken skipper, a skipper on which every sailor and even the captain are drunk with rum and unable to see the danger coming up and to deal with it. So the skipper is condemned to break on the rocks. England in the same way is condemned to break on the rocks because no one, in the upper classes, thinks beyond their interest. This catastrophe coming up is shown by some kind of supernatural explosion at the end of the play and the members of these upper classes admire the event as being beautiful and they are totally unable to cope. The picture given by Shaw of England is particularly pessimistic. Their is no future and no hope for that country. Along the way he discusses important issues such as the liberation of women within their enslavement and their power is nothing but hypnotism or drowning men in a sea of words and charm. The only sane man in the play is the captain, with an allusion to Whitman, « Captain my captain », who sees the catastrophes coming and is unable to convince his own daughters or their husbands and friends that they have to control the boat if they don't want it to capsize. But does he really want to convince them ?<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-04-10
US	50989966	R13WQK6MUQ3G8K	0684843781	835712680	This Side Of Paradise	Books	5	0	1	N	N	To be young is to grow and demand reforms	Francis Scott Fitzgerald gives here a masterpiece. The building of the conscience of a young American man is explored in the finest and most intricate details through his training in a prep school and at Princeton. His influences from all kinds of writers and poets are also examined in the way they interlace one another into a very subtle and complex whole.<br /><br />This leads that young man to the experience of the First World War and what follows and he moves from what could be considered as a pose to a more conscious state of mind in which the social reality of his time becomes pregnant with meaning.<br /><br />That leads him to a socialist stand coming from his dissatisfaction with the establishment that does not propose reforms and change but is self-satisfied in its achievements.<br /><br />The second level of the novel is the sentimental pilgrimage that the hero follows from the sheer discovery of love play to the deepest passion that leads nowhere and is finally identified by him as nothing but a negation of his self in the titillation of his egotism.<br /><br />Love is nothing but a mirror of himself and there is none of the two-way altruism that builds real love as a dual-carriageway of emotions and personal involvement.<br /><br />Hence he moves from a pure egotistic personality to something that is identified as a personage that is able to take into account the outside world as a living being of itself.<br /><br />The final element of interest in this book is the way Catholicism is an inspiration on that road and that his final starting point as an altruistic socialist is nothing but the development of Christian love that does not exist if the other is not one's equal, no matter where this other stands in the social order.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-03-17
US	50989966	R1PRSQCUPHY8VJ	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Love is a tricky business	F. Scott Fitzgerald is an author that represents the 20s in the US, this period where everything was crazy and rich before the Great Depression. This novel is the story of a love affair and of a career, that of Doctor Dick Diver. He is promised to a bright future as a psychiatric doctor. He marries one of the richest heiresses of America who was a patient first of all and became his wife. This love affair is described in the smallest and tiniest details. But Dick Diver comes to the point where he needs to distanciate himself from this ex-neurotic if not schizophrenic wife who was raped by her own father. Dick Diver is also extremely sollicited by many women because he is handsome and charming. He has a short-lived affair with a young Hollywood actress, Rosemary. But his wife Nicole is absolutely dependent on her love for him and cannot survive without his love.<br />The story leads us among the circles of rich Americans and English people who mostly roams the highlighted areas of Europe, spending the money they have and that is always more than they can spend. But a breaking point builds up slowly and explodes sometime in 1927-28. He gets more and more aloof as for his job, if not frankly sloppy and finally gets out of it due to alcoholism. He gets also more and more distant from Nicole. But the real breaking point is when Nicole conquers her freedom through a liaison with another man. Then the end is inevitable : divorce and going back to America to have a general practitioner's office in the state of New York.<br />But the book is a lot more interesting than just this picture. It shows how the very rich are living a complete dream life with caprices, good manners and civility, but no touch with the real world and how they get so far from the real world that they have to develop some kind of a screen to be protected from the fall this distance may represent : alcoholism, an artificial lifestyle and environment, spending as a daily occupation. This is in full contradiction with working to earn a living, which Dick Diver is always doing and a collapse is always at hand and it finally happens. One cannot live the contradiction between a real professional life and an artificial lifestyle. What's more interesting is that the fall comes from this very artificial lifestyle. Alcoholism is a coping strategy that dooms a professional life. Good manners and nicely controled love affairs are also in contradiction with a family life (the doctor has two children) and a professional life. So one day it has to break.<br />Thus the night of the title has many meanings : the nightlife of this detached society, the shadow of all the little affairs and liaisons that remain unrealised or hardly realised, the night of the movie theater since the cinema is always in the background, the night of the end of a love affair, a passion, the night of a lost career. And Doctor Dick Diver submits to this gentle slope going down slowly, to this coming night as if it were a liberation from the obligations of this artificial life. He goes back to reality and gets lost in the night of the unknown, unknown at least for the members of this artificial society of over-rich kids who never grow up. Finally it is a style in the book : every detail is always draped in some kind of shadow, in some kind of night that helps any contradiction and evolution to exist and to survive any kind of crisis.radiction with working to earn a living, which Dick Diver is always doing and a collapse is always at hand and it finally happens. One cannot live the contradiction between a real professional life and an artificial lifestyle. What's more interesting is that the fall comes from this very artificial lifestyle. Alcoholism is a coping strategy that dooms a professional life. Good manners and nicely controled love affairs are also in contradiction with a family life (the doctor has two children) and a professional life. So one day it has to break.<br />Thus the night of the title has many meanings : the nightlife of this detached society, the shadow of all the little affairs and liaisons that remain unrealised or hardly realised, the night of the movie theater since the cinema is always in the background, the night of the end of a love affair, a passion, the night of a lost career. And Doctor Dick Diver submits to this gentle slope going down slowly, to this coming night as if it were a liberation from the obligations of this artificial life. He goes back to reality and gets lost in the night of the unknown, unknown at least for the members of this artificial society of over-rich kids who never grow up. Finally it is a style in the book : every detail is always draped in some kind of shadow, in some kind of night that helps any contradiction and evolution to exist and to survive any kind of crisis.	2002-03-09
US	50989966	R2WDOTFO2EFZ6J	0586083030	607998049	Wild Boy of Aveyron	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A masterpiece for all educators	Harlan Lane, in this book which is already a little bit old but remains a masterpiece, gives us a complete picture of education movements starting with Itard's attempt at educating the wild boy of Aveyron and going through to Montessori's school of pedagogy. He carefully identifies the main mistakes made by Itard with the wild boy : he did not emphasize enough the capabilities of the wild boy when he was captured and he de-socialized him by not integrating him in a social group of his peers and in society at large. Apart from that this doctor started a completely new movement in education that will be largely amplified by his student S&eacute;guin, who will put the essential emphasis on socialisation and productive activities opening the door to Montessori who emphasizes in her turn the importance of self-education in a socially active and stimulating school environment. These three people are the founding fathers and mother of the education of deaf-mutes, mentally-handicapped children and children at large.<br />His book though is optimistic as for the « victory » of these ideas and principles. The debate, at times conflictual, is still raging in our school systems that are not enough socialised, i.e. open onto society at large, and that are not based on self-education in a socially structured and stimulating school environment. Too often we relapse in narrow guidance if not replacing the autonomous efforts of the students with the superior frame of learning imposed by teachers. He also does not emphasize enough on the need for a strict and compelling behavior of the teachers who must not in any way accept to substitute their knowledge to the individual and collective search for knowledge among the students, in spite of all resistance that comes from the very second principle of Seguin's method. It is a natural tendency among children and teenagers to resist such a course of action because it is a lot more exacting, it requires a lot greater effort on their part. This natural tendency to do as little as possible is slightly overlooked. Autonomy is costly on the side of the students and is challenging on the side of the teachers who are not the only source of knowledge any more.<br />A great book that should be the starting point of any educator in any field and at any level because it shows that motivation is the only engine of learning as for students, and that motivation is varied among students and contradictory with the natural tendency to do as little as possible, to rely on a pre-digested source...natural tendency to do as little as possible is slightly overlooked. Autonomy is costly on the side of the students and is challenging on the side of the teachers who are not the only source of knowledge any more. <br />A great book that should be the starting point of any educator in any field and at any level because it shows that motivation is the only engine of learning as for students, and that motivation is varied among students and contradictory with the natural tendency to do as little as possible, to rely on a pre-digested source...	2002-03-07
US	50989966	R2HM5L96TU7WEB	0899660460	507854420	Tarzan of the Apes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pulpy but hefty	Edgar Rice Burroughs wrote this novel in 1914. It is the story of a baby raised by apes in Africa and coming back after many adventures to civilization. It is a very well written novel on heredity and training and how human intelligence can be impaired by nothing, even twenty years spent in the deepest jungle with apes. Human intelligence, even in the most adverse circumstances, will enable the subject to capture abilities and capabilities from the smallest elements available, and devise typically human procedures that will enhance his heredity and put him on the road to civilization. The turning point of this adventure is language and language can be captured provided some incentives are present, and they are in this story in the shape of books. From there human superiority based on intelligence can develop. The central element in the plot will be the confrontation of Tarzan with the famous Jane and his discovery of love and his desire to learn how humans may love. He will go through this long and thrilling experience with strength and an extreme sense of his humanity. The end of the novel is contained in the very last page and is very sad : the last lesson about humans, their gallantry. Tarzan yields the woman he loves and who loves him, his estate and his noble title for the sake of this very woman. But the book is not very nice with Jane who appears in the end as a fool dominated by fear, the fear of the unknown. But the book is still perfectly readable and enjoyable, even if the second woman character, Esmeralda, Jane's black servant, is characterized as even more frightened and void of courage as Jane herself. This is probably a sign of the time before the first world war, with a tinge of racism, especially when dealing with Africans.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-02-26
US	50989966	R1LYNOCWVZMVZY	0380977400	477402843	999: New Stories of Horror and Suspense	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A garden of pleasure	This book is a collection of stories, short or long, in the vast field of horror and fantastique literature. The panorama is nearly complete and dedicated to the devil by its own title. I particularly like the final short novel « Elsewhere » by William Peter Blatty. The ending is totally surprising and very well interwoven into the whole story, with a final twist in the very last paragraph, so that we do not know any more who is a ghost and who is not. Are we all ghosts ? Some other stories are very good. No surprise with Stephen King, though his story deserves a longer treatment. Anyone interested in this literature could use this book as a compilation of pleasures. But it could also be a perfect introduction to the genre for novices and newcomers.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-02-23
US	50989966	R1PMPDQP87KWCU	0804117683	79568500	Moo	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Hilarious intellectual ghetto	This is the story of an AG midwestern university campus. It is a self-enclosed institution, in other words an intellectual and social ghetto. The author explores this reality along two lines. First she adopts a multiple point of view approach that explodes the unity of the campus into varying and antagonistic approaches. We enter that way all kinds of inner conflicts captured from all kinds of personal points of view. It is a jigsaw puzzle with all the pieces scattered over a wide table. We have to reconstruct the whole picture and this is both funny and inspiring. But, since a ghetto is supposed to be penetrated by the outside world that surrounds it, the second approach deals with all kinds of intrusions from outside. The first intrusion is that of a big corporation that dictates its rules by donating money and making the university rich. All kinds of compromises are thus imposed and accepted because of all the security and the fringe benefits or percs this intrusion brings along. The second intrusion is political and comes from the Governor of the state who decides, out of hostility against the politically motivated professors, to cut on the budget. This creates a real panic on the campus when everyone discovers that programs and careers are just perishable goods that can dry out overnight and disappear at dawn. The trick here is to bring around a change of mind of the Governor who cancels his own decisions and everything comes back to normal, that is to say overspending and carelessness. This novel is witty and very funny due to the various personalities and conflicts it describes and animates for us. The core of this novel is the tragic life of a pig, or hog if you prefer, who is a clandestine passenger on the campus that has cost one quarter million dollars and who dies of a heart attack when he finally gets the opportunity to escape. In other words it is impossible to escape this ghetto, to live outside this ghetto once you have taken roots in it. And the metaphor of the hog is just the best metaphor you can imagine for such a campus, a hog that has been raised only on a fattening diet that makes him so big that he can't even walk. Fatten university campuses with money and they become inoffensive to the outside world because they are self-contained and totally irrelevant for the outside world, or nearly.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUaphor of the hog is just the best metaphor you can imagine for such a campus, a hog that has been raised only on a fattening diet that makes him so big that he can't even walk. Fatten university campuses with money and they become inoffensive to the outside world because they are self-contained and totally irrelevant for the outside world, or nearly.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-02-07
US	50989966	R2468T8O56TZME	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A voyage in initiation	Harper Lee wrote there a delicate and sensitive novel on the coming of age of two children in the South (Alabama) in the mid 1930s, that is to say during the Great Depression. The central issue of the book is the progressive discovery of the outside world by two - or three - young children, a girl and one or two boys. This discovery has to do with the ugliness of some people in our society, the prejudiced white people, the openly lazy white social cases who live on welfare, the miscarriage of justice against a black man who is condemned on the sole testimony of two white people by an all white male jury, the planned and failed lynching of the black man the day before his trial, etc. But it is also the discovery of the neighbors and that the people you see, or don't see, everyday are not necessarily what they seem to be, like this crippled woman who is fighting successfully her morphine addiction and conquers it just before dying, so that she can die clean. But it all centers on one neighbor that leads the life of a recluse and that fascinates the children who want to attract him outside to see him. They will eventually succeed twice, the first time totally unawares of it, and the second time just in time for him to save the life of the two children in the hands and under the knife of a white reject of society. This initiation to society goes along with the desire to make these children fit for southern gentility, for them to be a gentlemen and a lady, even if those ladies and gentlemen are not exactly pure and clean, unprejudiced and open-minded, in fact quite the reverse. But it is by integrating this society that you may make it change little by little because most of them want change but do not have the courage to advocate it, though they will support those who willl stand for a reasonable and progressive change. The book is so touching and full of feeling, that it probably is the masterpiece of a life time, and a time-enduring one.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-02-01
US	50989966	R26UQA4Q0R5ERI	0671722794	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Puck is a trip of luck	Shakespeare in this play tries to entertain us with supernatural beings in a forest who more or less take humans under their influence to make them enjoy life and love as the only aims of humanity. It naturally leads to several weddings, but it is the slow discovery that the beings of the night are the allies of men and women if these do not forget their are human. They are human because they believe in and accept the creatures of the night as being benevolent and aiming at the happiness of humanity. Love can always triumph because these mythical beings are looking after it. In this play we have one of the antecedents to Purcell's later work on a British mythology, we have the resistance to the rising puritanism that is going to engulf England and impose the absolute closure of theaters and even the rejection of such plays because they do not abide by the simple christian faith but refers to pagan beliefs that are still strong and alive in the consciousness of simple people, if not also of educated people, even if with another value. Luckily such beautiful comedies will survive the Puritans and are still the source of our pleasure. One does not need to believe in elves to find pleasure in Puck.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-29
US	50989966	R113AMZTDHRJ5X	0671039164	29336337	Antony and Cleopatra (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When love and fate mean death or power	Shakespeare in this play shows how love is not human but surrealistic. Love does not answer reasonable questions. It is a fundamentally unreasonable attitude that brings the lovers to absurd behaviours negating all logical, political and historical values. Love has no limits even if history will prove stronger and the lovers will be destroyed. Shakespeare beefs up this theme with a language that is so rich that we are fascinated by the words, the symbols, the symbolic value of words and acts. He is particularly rich in his style that is entirely, words, poetry, actions, and even feelings, organized following some simple symbols, particularly numerical symbols. In this play Cleopatra appears as being the core of the symbolism and she carries with her the number eleven that comes from the old English runes with the meaning of fate, of fatal defeat, of a flaw that cannot be corrected or escaped. It is her destiny to bring Antony to his defeat and death, just as it is Antony's fate to be governed by this woman and led to his own destruction because of his love for her. It also shows how the Emperor is able to use this fatal situation in order to capture all powers and to impose his absolute will on the Roman Empire. He seems to be the one who plays not well but with all the assets of the game up his sleeves, and he takes them out one at a time when the situation is ripe for these assts to become the key to is ascension to absolute power by defeating those who may oppose him.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-29
US	50989966	R3RGGUB0B20AAU	0671722840	43217624	Richard III (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When good is evil and vice versa	This play by Shakespeare is a fundamental achievement in drama. The main character is shown as evil but at the same time, if one can read properly and see all the details, he is the one who finally establishes the principle that the English king has to be accepted at least if not selected by the representative of the City of London, hence establishing the « constitutional » or « parliamentary » nature of the English Crown. It also establishes the fact that a bad king must give way to a good one, that it is a moral duty for everyone to fight against a bad king. We are miles away from the feudal acceptance of the king as the direct representative of God on earth and against whom all rebellion is unacceptable. The play builds up this moral resistance against the bad king little by little and makes it irreversible. Here we really touch the historical value of this king : he is a complete turning point in the English monarchy : the king has to accept being scrutinized and criticized by all the representatives of civil society, even if, for a time at least, these can be lured and cheated. Sooner or later good will prevail. This is  Shakespeare's fundamental belief that tragedy comes from the disruption of a balanced situation by some crime and finds its resolution in the rebalancing of the situation by the elimination of the bad ones and the coming to the front of a new generation of good ones. The value of this belief in our present world is fundamental and essential.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-29
US	50989966	R1RRSO0EF9FPOV	0446607711	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Supreme Court is pristine	David Baldacci mixes several lines of interest and plot very convincingly. Very convincing is the military plot of some people who performed experiments on privates without their knowing and agreeing with various drugs like LSD or PCP. The result is an interesting case, approached both through its sexual dimension (raped women in the armed forces) and the experimental dimension at the level of the Supreme Court whose functioning and even function are explored in details, particularly how a decision is built and agreed upon. Here the interest is to know if the armed forces are above the law and if personnel can suit them for compensations and damages when something wrong has taken place. Very convincing too is the career of a defense attorney who started as a cop and resigned after a shoot-out with young drug dealers. He wants the truth in the case that led to the death of his brother, a Supreme Court clerk. His procedure and the plot that builds the novel is very precise and credible. Convincing too is the love affair that develops between this defense attorney and another clerk of the Supreme Court. Both want the truth and are ready to fight and even endanger their position to get it. At this level the book is a perfect example of the rights of a citizen and the dangers and perils for being one to the end, to the dire and bitter finish. To be a citizen is to refuse any compromission with evil and evil elements in society, even if your livelyhood or welfare may be endangered by this action. It is this that is the real dimension of democracy and freedom, and those two values of ours are not untouchable in our societies. They always are the result of a fight within the society for them to be respected by everyone, including the institutions who should uphold them from the very start and by principle. An excellent book because it goes beyond a simple action plot.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-22
US	50989966	R3TJUAYEZZSWFZ	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Poignant and naive	Arundhati Roy introduces us here into Indian society in Bombay. It is a marvellous love story between a Touchable woman and an Untouchable man. The story is very moving and very convincing. It is brought to us mainly through the eyes of the two twins of the main character. She is a divorcee and she raises her kids in her family which owns a pickle factory. The two kids, a boy and a girl, make us discover this world with naive eyes and also with a lot of double-thinking. They think and speak in two languages and these two languages are mixed in a very agreeable way. But they also think in two different ways because they are from two eggs and yet twins, one and yet double. But they also think double because their best friend is an Untouchable and this is the cause of the drama. This Untouchable has been favored by the family but there are limits to their favor. Then, when this limit is trespassed, the whole society and everyone becomes ugly, brutal, immoral, unbearable, even the kids are blackmailed by their aunt into accusing the dead Untouchable of having kidnapped them, to save, so the aunt says, their mother. This leaves a bitter taste and shows how urgent it is for this society to find a way to move away from this feudal tradition. It also shows how it is an important slogan for the dominant communist party, even if it is only a slogan.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-16
US	50989966	RO622CJ45FJTJ	0913559598	738136732	Beowulf: Letterpress Edition	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The founding masterpiece of English poetry	Beowulf is a tale of glory, courage and death. It starts with a burial at sea, on a boat forever roaming the ocean with a rich hoard of gold and it ends with the pyre of Beowulf himself buried with a rich hoard in a mound to remember the dead king and to be a signal to all sailors about the land they will welcome as a harbour of peace. But the whole trajectory of this tale is founded on three exploits, three killings of monsters. First Grendel the sea monster who is destroyed with sheer muscular strength. Then Grendel's mother at the bottom of the sea in a lair that looks like a womb that has to be purified by the killing and beheading of both the mother and the son, a son that has no father and that is the last descendant of the outcast Cain. It is the perfect Christian rewriting of an old saga, the destruction of all monsters, of the last monsters bringing the end of Cain's line and the redemption of humanity in God by the cleansing of the womb that produced such monsters. It is the killing of the mother that had no husband and her son that had no father, of those unhuman beings that live on preying humanity. All the old legends are thus christianized and Beowulf, the hero, some would have seen a god in him in the old days, becomes a Christian hero who cleanses the womb and christianizes it, who brings the light of God to the world along with glory and peace. But the chistianization of the saga is only complete when a third killing takes place, a killing that will mean the death and sacrifice of the hero. The third monster is a serpent, a dragon, keeping a fantastic treasure under his guard. The monster of flight, fire and also water, the cross of all monsters of water, air and fire, living in a deep burrow in the earth. He associates the four elements and has to be killed for humanity to be free of such menaces. Beowulf will do it though he will die of it. It is the killing of the dragon in the Book of Revelation that opens the road to the New Jerusalem, the City of God. This dragon is also an obvious father symbol. Hence all the monsters are destroyed, and the victory is complete by the killing of the father, though that killing both means the death of the hero and the birth of a new hero who helps Beowulf defeat the dragon. The treasure of the dragon will yet not be appropriated by the winner because it represents the strength of this dragon, of the father, of the hero. The hero will be buried with it and the tomb will become a beaconing symbol of security and welcome for men. This christianization is very subtle. Eight warriors will enter the dragon's lair, eight like Jesus Christ in christian symbolism, but also like the omega of the Book of Revelation. And then twelve warriors will consecrate the burial mound of Beowulf, twelve like the twelve doors of the New Jerusalem, like the representatives of the City of God, of the prediction of the end of the world and the redemption of all worthy men and women after the last call of God who is both the alpha, the beginning, and the omega, the end, of life, of the world, of humanity, of any man's life that has to start with a heroic act and end with another.<br />The language itself makes it difficult to read but the effort is leading to a worthwhile beauty that no translation can ever achieve.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUof God. This dragon is also an obvious father symbol. Hence all the monsters are destroyed, and the victory is complete by the killing of the father, though that killing both means the death of the hero and the birth of a new hero who helps Beowulf defeat the dragon. The treasure of the dragon will yet not be appropriated by the winner because it represents the strength of this dragon, of the father, of the hero. The hero will be buried with it and the tomb will become a beaconing symbol of security and welcome for men. This christianization is very subtle. Eight warriors will enter the dragon's lair, eight like Jesus Christ in christian symbolism, but also like the omega of the Book of Revelation. And then twelve warriors will consecrate the burial mound of Beowulf, twelve like the twelve doors of the New Jerusalem, like the representatives of the City of God, of the prediction of the end of the world and the redemption of all worthy men and women after the last call of God who is both the alpha, the beginning, and the omega, the end, of life, of the world, of humanity, of any man's life that has to start with a heroic act and end with another. <br />The language itself makes it difficult to read but the effort is leading to a worthwhile beauty that no translation can ever achieve.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-09
US	50989966	R15BLO1TQV42EF	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A marvelous translatiion of an outstanding piece of poetry	Beowulf is a tale of glory, courage and death. It starts with a burial at sea, on a boat forever roaming the ocean with a rich hoard of gold and it ends with the pyre of Beowulf himself buried with a rich hoard in a mound to remember the dead king and to be a signal to all sailors about the land they will welcome as a harbour of peace. But the whole trajectory of this tale is founded on three exploits, three killings of monsters. First Grendel the sea monster who is destroyed with sheer muscular strength. Then Grendel's mother at the bottom of the sea in a lair that looks like a womb that has to be purified by the killing and beheading of both the mother and the son, a son that has no father and that is the last descendant of the outcast Cain. It is the perfect Christian rewriting of an old saga, the destruction of all monsters, of the last monsters bringing the end of Cain's line and the redemption of humanity in God by the cleansing of the womb that produced such monsters. It is the killing of the mother that had no husband and her son that had no father, of those unhuman beings that live on preying humanity. All the old legends are thus christianized and Beowulf, the hero, some would have seen a god in him in the old days, becomes a Christian hero who cleanses the womb and christianizes it, who brings the light of God to the world along with glory and peace. But the chistianization of the saga is only complete when a third killing takes place, a killing that will mean the death and sacrifice of the hero. The third monster is a serpent, a dragon, keeping a fantastic treasure under his guard. The monster of flight, fire and also water, the cross of all monsters of water, air and fire, living in a deep burrow in the earth. He associates the four elements and has to be killed for humanity to be free of such menaces. Beowulf will do it though he will die of it. It is the killing of the dragon in the Book of Revelation that opens the road to the New Jerusalem, the City of God. This dragon is also an obvious father symbol. Hence all the monsters are destroyed, and the victory is complete by the killing of the father, though that killing both means the death of the hero and the birth of a new hero who helps Beowulf defeat the dragon. The treasure of the dragon will yet not be appropriated by the winner because it represents the strength of this dragon, of the father, of the hero. The hero will be buried with it and the tomb will become a beaconing symbol of security and welcome for men. This christianization is very subtle. Eight warriors will enter the dragon's lair, eight like Jesus Christ in christian symbolism, but also like the omega of the Book of Revelation. And then twelve warriors will consecrate the burial mound of Beowulf, twelve like the twelve doors of the New Jerusalem, like the representatives of the City of God, of the prediction of the end of the world and the redemption of all worthy men and women after the last call of God who is both the alpha, the beginning, and the omega, the end, of life, of the world, of humanity, of any man's life that has to start with a heroic act and end with another.<br />The present translation by Seamus Heaney keeps the rough and extremely musical language of the original. It is both coarse and melodious and the rhythm of the verse gives us the simple music of those old tales which were necessarily sung by the heros or the poets in the meetings of the warriors after the battles. The translation though loses some of the subtle symbolism conveyed by the anglo-saxon text of old, but that is absolutely unavoidable because the two languages are so far apart, have so little in common. The most beautiful translation to date.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUof God. This dragon is also an obvious father symbol. Hence all the monsters are destroyed, and the victory is complete by the killing of the father, though that killing both means the death of the hero and the birth of a new hero who helps Beowulf defeat the dragon. The treasure of the dragon will yet not be appropriated by the winner because it represents the strength of this dragon, of the father, of the hero. The hero will be buried with it and the tomb will become a beaconing symbol of security and welcome for men. This christianization is very subtle. Eight warriors will enter the dragon's lair, eight like Jesus Christ in christian symbolism, but also like the omega of the Book of Revelation. And then twelve warriors will consecrate the burial mound of Beowulf, twelve like the twelve doors of the New Jerusalem, like the representatives of the City of God, of the prediction of the end of the world and the redemption of all worthy men and women after the last call of God who is both the alpha, the beginning, and the omega, the end, of life, of the world, of humanity, of any man's life that has to start with a heroic act and end with another. <br />The present translation by Seamus Heaney keeps the rough and extremely musical language of the original. It is both coarse and melodious and the rhythm of the verse gives us the simple music of those old tales which were necessarily sung by the heros or the poets in the meetings of the warriors after the battles. The translation though loses some of the subtle symbolism conveyed by the anglo-saxon text of old, but that is absolutely unavoidable because the two languages are so far apart, have so little in common. The most beautiful translation to date.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-09
US	50989966	R1RUEY4ZWWYMBH	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Kitchen God's Wife finally got a divorce	Amy Tan is a great storyteller. But she is also great for three other reasons. First she is able to unravel a story from at least two points of view, here a mother and  her daughter. Officially it is the story of the mother told to the daughter, but in fact it is the background and underground building of the daughter's personality as a Chinese American : the Chinese side of her self is the inheritance of her mother's experience. Second she deals with women in their liberation, not the liberation of the younger generation, but their liberation as the natural outcome of the hardships and subsequent liberation of their mothers. It is the struggle of the mothers for their freedom that gives freedom to their daughters. In that respect Amy Tan is one of the very best writers on the condition of women in the US. She is at least as good as the Afro-American women writers along that line. Third she is always able to connect the traditional Chinese side of her story, in China itself, with the war against the Japanese and the coming of the Communists, to the modern Chinese American culture. She does not exorcize the Communists, nor the Japanese, though she sounds partial with the Japanese as agressors, though their task was made easy bvy the rotten Kuomintang officials and army. On the other hand she is fair witrh the Communists and shows how they were able to use deep discontent to capture their own victory. It is the case here with women and feudal marriages. The Communists are able to help the women who want to escape this fate knowing that it will start a  real revolution in the country and that most women will follow suit. The divide then appears for what it is : a cultural divide, the free choice between serving one's society and serving one's interest, a communal - if not communistic - choice on one side and a personal - if not individualistic - choice on the other side. This leads to a very optimistic note at the end : the two sides are not opposed and can find a new unity, especially now that the kitchen God's wife has finally divorced her godly husband, reducing him to a hellish destiny and enhancing herself into a totally optimistic future for both men and women, for society, through equality.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUunity, especially now that the kitchen God's wife has finally divorced her godly husband, reducing him to a hellish destiny and enhancing herself into a totally optimistic future for both men and women, for society, through equality.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2002-01-01
US	50989966	R3SF4AGD5D8S33	0156011654	4054666	The Last Life: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Between the past and a dream	Claire Messud is a great storyteller. The story is that of the initiation of a young French teenager to adult life. That would be trite if some extra elements were not mixed to this basic line. First she has a handicaped brother who is condemned to remain in a wheelchair all his life. Second her father has his own story and the end of this story is both poignant and sad, divided as it is between the emigrating boat in Algiers Harbor and the coffin of the refusal of the French defeat. But most of all she is of « pied-noir » origin, her father and her grand parents having been born and bred in Algeria and having lived the war and the independence of this country in blood and loss. This is already something to set her aside from her fellow French teenagers. But her mother is also American by origin and that projects her directly into that split culture, between the lost culture of Algiers under French rule, a culture entirely attached to a disappeared past, and the American culture entirely open, she says, to the future. So we see her playing a part in every situation since she has no past, except a dream, and she has no future, except a dream too she is the only one to be able to make true. You then add to that the dual inspiration from her religion and Saint Augustine's City of God, on one side, and from the revolutionary Camus's City of Man on the other side, and  you may think both are equally impossible and that life is nothing but compromises in real present circumstances. And yet it is a lot more than that, and you can only discover it by reading this very fascinating book.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-25
US	50989966	R145OYW8T10KGT	0300078803	135277436	The Spanish Inquisition: A Historical Revision	Books	4	21	36	N	N	A difficult Reconquest	This book is extremely well documented on the subject. It shows how this Inquisition was the result of the reconquest of Spain on the Moslems and the policy of converting the Jews and the Moslems to christianity. Later on it was ordered for those to leave the country. To purify the conversions and to impose strict obedience to the church, the Inquisition was invented. It did not prevent protestantism which never had a deep influence, but it developed a particular type of faith that is extremely submissive to religious authorities and the King. It was a long and slow process over two centuries. But all this history gives depth and flesh to Goya's paintings and satire, without which it would only be gruesome art. It also gives some density to Don Quixote by making the windmills look like the goals of the Inquisition. But Don Quixote is crazy and more or less inoffensive whereas the Inquisition is perfectly sane and definitely offensive. The author yet is very careful to put his data into perspective with other courts and other countries : Spain is certainly not the worst case of systematic miscarriage of justice and of cruelty. Far from it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-22
US	50989966	R3KF4YHM4U81ZH	0393974995	740233698	The Waste Land (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Where is the present?	One of T.S. Eliot's bestknown poems. What I am feeling is more an impression than a meaning. The world is old, like coming to its end, decaying. The poet sees and only sees. It is soundless and yet it is music. He brings together all sorts of recollections, experiences and small vignettes of the world, and a whole array of references to all kinds of cultures to show how the past is foregone and the future is not there. There remains only the thunder that speaks unaudible sounds of farewell on a road we cannot even see, nor follow as for that.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-16
US	50989966	RKWYYU68HAPJF	0156332256	442985758	Four Quartets	Books	5	3	15	N	N	What's left when time has gone!	By far the crowning of T.S. Eliot's poetry. The evanescent equilibrium point between a whole set of couples of antagons. The present is such a point, but demultiplied by a myriad of other couples. Past-Future, Has-been-Might-have-been, and this point is movement, constantly moving between those antagons. It gives you a vertigo, the vertigo we feel in front of the present that is a constantly moving equilibrium point. Fascinating. Men are no longer hollow but they are unstoppable motion. They are some light, fine and fuzzy moving line between all the antagons of human nature, of nature as for that. Then a long and rich metaphor of life with the sea, neverending movement that ignores past and future but is pure present and nothing else. Men and women can only worship this everlasting  present motion, time and place that is no time, no place and no motion, just unstable energy burnt in its own existence.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-16
US	50989966	RAWZLEQPXSIL	0151189781	320895570	T. S. Eliot: Collected Poems, 1909-1962 (The Centenary Edition)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A diamond mine	PRUFOCK AND OTHER OBSERVATIONS<br />THE LOVESONG OF J. ALFRED PRUFOCK<br />This poem is a beauty. The language is so fluent that it flows lightly and evenly between our ears and its music is perfect and delightful. The images build up a crown or a wreath, according to tastes, life and death mixing equally with love and gloat. Deeply shakespearian by its syntax it is pure Chopin by its music, both rhythm and notes.<br />THE WASTE LAND<br />One of T.S. Eliot's bestknown poems. What I am feeling is more an impression than a meaning. The world is old, like coming to its end, decaying. The poet sees and only sees. It is soundless and yet it is music. He brings together all sorts of recollections, experiences and small vignettes of the world, and a whole array of references to all kinds of cultures to show how the past is foregone and the future is not there. There remains only the thunder that speaks unaudible sounds of farewell on a road we cannot even see, nor follow as for that.<br />THE HOLLOW MEN<br />It is the end of the world, and this is nothing but a whimper because men are hollow. They do not contain anything. They are ghosts of history, so that history itself is a ghost and the world has no future. This poem is extremely and astoundingly modern indeed. NO FUTURE.<br />ASH WEDNESDAY<br />This poetry is entirely dedicated to death, but also to the time between birth and death, a time of turning, a time that is felt like flying, going, flowing but there is no word, no world able to whirl any sound. Men are like living deads, already dead and moving towards death with no hope, except maybe the hope of God, but God is silent, so there is the only consolation of the Lady who is also silent and comes only after death to stare more than anything else.<br />CHORUSES FROM « THE ROCK »<br />« Where is the Life we have lost in living ? Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge ? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information ? » These choruses are entirely dedicated to God, but with some original approach. What is important is what comes from God. God is light, but a light that is invisible and it is this invisible light that must help us never to forget that man is spirit and body, just like the Temple, and that the spirit suffers when the body suffers. And the body does suffer a lot in our mechanical times. The body is split in myriads of individuals who do not think the body as one, and society as one, and this oneness as communion with the light of God, an invisible light in a time when touching is the proof of existence.<br />FOUR QUARTETS<br />By far the crowning of T.S. Eliot's poetry. The evanescent equilibrium point between a whole set of couples of antagons. The present is such a point, but demultiplied by a myriad of other couples. Past-Future, Has-been-Might-have-been, and this point is movement, constantly moving between those antagons. It gives you a vertigo, the vertigo we feel in front of the present that is a constantly moving equilibrium point. Fascinating. Men are no longer hollow but they are unstoppable motion. They are some light, fine and fuzzy moving line between all the antagons of human nature, of nature as for that. Then a long and rich metaphor of life with the sea, neverending movement that ignores past and future but is pure present and nothing else. Men and women can only worship this everlasting  present motion, time and place that is no time, no place and no motion, just unstable energy burnt in its own existence.<br />OLD POSSUM'S BOOK OF PRACTICAL CATS<br />A set of nice and musical poems on various cats. They are enchanting and light and every rhyme is the best, each one better than all the others. A little book to be given to boys and girls who do not know yet that language is art and speaking may be a compliment to their lives.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUod, but with some original approach. What is important is what comes from God. God is light, but a light that is invisible and it is this invisible light that must help us never to forget that man is spirit and body, just like the Temple, and that the spirit suffers when the body suffers. And the body does suffer a lot in our mechanical times. The body is split in myriads of individuals who do not think the body as one, and society as one, and this oneness as communion with the light of God, an invisible light in a time when touching is the proof of existence.<br />FOUR QUARTETS<BR>By far the crowning of T.S. Eliot's poetry. The evanescent equilibrium point between a whole set of couples of antagons. The present is such a point, but demultiplied by a myriad of other couples. Past-Future, Has-been-Might-have-been, and this point is movement, constantly moving between those antagons. It gives you a vertigo, the vertigo we feel in front of the present that is a constantly moving equilibrium point. Fascinating. Men are no longer hollow but they are unstoppable motion. They are some light, fine and fuzzy moving line between all the antagons of human nature, of nature as for that. Then a long and rich metaphor of life with the sea, neverending movement that ignores past and future but is pure present and nothing else. Men and women can only worship this everlasting  present motion, time and place that is no time, no place and no motion, just unstable energy burnt in its own existence.<br />OLD POSSUM'S BOOK OF PRACTICAL CATS<BR>A set of nice and musical poems on various cats. They are enchanting and light and every rhyme is the best, each one better than all the others. A little book to be given to boys and girls who do not know yet that language is art and speaking may be a compliment to their lives.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-16
US	50989966	RWI3MBR1IFBYT	0151686564	831494069	Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cats forever	A set of nice and musical poems on various cats. They are enchanting and light and every rhyme is the best, each one better than all the others. A little book to be given to boys and girls who do not know yet that language is art and speaking may be a compliment to their lives.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-16
US	50989966	R21QGZMH78E1C2	0156182890	67896780	The Cocktail Party	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Survival kit in a schizophrenic society	In a world of appearances, a new species of peace-makers has been invented. The priest of old has disappeared. The psychiatrist has replaced him. He is there to listen to secrets, to sort out situations and to propose solutions to human problems. The very few that are worth it can become the saints of today, going to foreign desolate countries and helping people out of their difficulties, fighting poverty and diseases, bringing the christian faith to pagan people, living in suffering and dire hardship. The others are helped to adapt to our society, to be successful in this society without feeling the remorse or the fear that come along with it. They just become adaptable, supple enough to fit in a deeply dishumanized society. The psychiatrist is the go-between for such people.<br />This play is surrealistic and yet perfectly descriptive of reality. It is full of a new type of poetry, his poetry of love and hate, of a new type of drama, his drama of conflict-solving. T. S. Eliot manages to shift from the most superficial bourgeois drama to the deepest and serenest tragedy turned comedy. The path of these people is tragic in a way, but it ends in beauty or at least in harmony.<br />Yet I think T.S. Eliot would have been better inspired if he had gotten away from this bourgeois aristocratic society that is nothing but vain cocktail parties and superfluous appearances. The great poet he is could have been a better playwright.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-16
US	50989966	R2LGVSQC49SPO2	0743410653	418692542	Booked to Die (Cliff Janeway)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Bookchase becomes a hunt	John Dunning is taking us into a surprising world, that of bookscouts in Denver. The criminal plot is only there to give some momentum to the novel and to emphasize the strange passion that buying books of value is. We are not alking of the value of the book seen as a piece of literature but rather the value of the book seen as an antique, as a collectible. Looking for such books, buying them and then selling them is seen as an hypnotic activity that can lead someone to killing his fellow men in order to appropriate a real treasure and then to protect one's secret and possession. Dunning add to that a tight study of the cop's psychology that makes him become a bookman. Where is the knot between the two ? And this knot is analyzed in many details. The cop deals with human passions and fears that can lead him into a frenzy to discover the deep layers of human nature. The bookman is directly involved in such a human passion and the cop become bookman cannot avoid his destiny at unwrapping the truth of a killing in this book-world. And his aim is to protect this world, to keep it ethical in spite of the extreme passion that goes along with it. How can a human passion remain pure ? That is the question. John Dunning does not give us an answer but gives us a fascinating thriller that comes to a close that no one could have foreseen. The ending is thus a little surprising and we are made to understand that human passions always lead to extreme positions that have nothing to do with logic and that a cop is a bizarre being who deals with human passions but does not have the right to experience them : looking for the truth in a murder case, in the bad doing of a passion, kills any passion in the cop himself. A cop is a recluse from passions and real life.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-12
US	50989966	R1ZJ1V9HNU7WJ3	0440213991	406878623	Guardian Angel (V. I. Warshawski)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A woman's eye on man's business society	Sara Paretsky is a lot more than a plain detective story writer. She describes a whole society, in this case that of Chicago and its crime, or crimes. Violent crime is not number one on her agenda, though it comes in due time. She is mainly interested in white collar crime, the type you find  in business and finances. These criminals are highly qualified and educated and some believe that they can have all they want, just because they have the education, the money or the power it takes to command the world. Violence only comes up when some outsiders, first of all the private investigator of this book, try to get into the circle to find out about those criminal acitivites. After moral or social intimidation violence comes in the same line, and it can go all the way to elimination. But this classy world does not accept to be endangered and they are ready to sacrifice some of their children in order to save the system. You can become an outcast overnight if your actions or initiatives endanger the power of the bosses of this society. It is a clan and those who do not accept these clannish procedures are rejected. But Sara Paretsky goes a lot beyond and gives also a fair picture of some burning issues in our socieries. She does not put them all on the front burner but she does for the position of women :  they can do all they want, no profession is beyond their reach, because an equal society has to reject any privilege or segregation. A fascinating page turner.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-07
US	50989966	R3L560YB3Z1K1L	0874716268	765540032	Childe Harold's pilgrimage and other romantic poems (Everyman's university library ; 1005)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pilgrimage among the nations of Europe	Lord Byron travels in Europe from Portugal to Spain, then to Italy and Greece, then to the Ardennes and the Alps, to Switzerland and Venice and Rome. He beholds the war-torn Europe after Napoleon and is a witness to the emerging nationalism of all nations. He blends his song of independence for all countries or peoples into a long and rich song of nature that mixes historical references, mythological recollections and all other connections he deems natural and useful to give universality and even some kind of a new power coming from the faith in the ability of men to free themselves and to reach up to the realisation of their potentials. The form is also very engaging : a ballad with some songs here and there. The rhythmic and rhyming patterns are fluid and delicate and Lord Byron reaches a rare power and, should I say, finesse in the use of the form. We nearly get an epic, or at least an epic in the making, and this strong tone is ever present in the poem.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-12-02
US	50989966	R1LJDXGERI6ZZP	0849953235	298082995	Life Lessons: Book Of Revelation (Inspirational Bible Study Series)	Books	5	9	42	N	N	The Revelation of the Beginning after the end	This Book is attributed to Saint John, but was probably written by his followers after his death on the basis of his oral teaching. It is an essential piece of Christian fantastique litterature.<br /><br />The story is perfectly gripping and inspiring. The symbols are very complex. The numerology is fundamental.<br />God is heavily defined as binary : the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last, He-is-and-He-was. In only one instance is he ternary, when he is defined as « He who is, who was and who is to come ».<br />The second figure that is essential is seven : it is the symbol of God's power, God's punishment, God's cleansing of the world with the seven angels, the seven trumpets, the second set of seven angels and the seven bowls containing the seven plagues.<br /><br />Yet God is not only 2. He is also the multiples 4 and 8. And what is important too is the definition of the New Jerusalem as being square with three doors on each side, hence twelve doors. 12 is the figure of perfection, the absolute perfection of the City of God on earth.<br /><br />When we read this book with these simple ideas in mind we find that the story is thrilling, with the pregnant woman chased by the dragon, and then again the woman representing God, pregnant again, confronted to a second dragon. This symbolic image is fundamental. This « woman adorned with the sun, standing on the moon, and with the twelve stars on her head for a crown » is the representation of perfect knowledge, of the solar year and calendar, of the lunar year and calendar and of the twelve signs of the Zodiac. The dragon represents the negation of knowledge (idolatry), wisdom (fornication) and perfection (Babylon/Rome sitting on its seven hills).<br /><br />To conclude we must understand that this vision is the basis of all romanesque art and especially romanesque churches that will join under the influence of the Benedictines, the knowledge/wisdom/ science of old from the ancient Egyptians to the modern Greeks or Romans via le linking Celtic tradition. And then we understand why these churches are situated facing the East, with a North-South transept, and why these churches are the pilgrimage of the faithful from the West, the world, to the East, God, crossing the transept to enter the realm of God himself. These romanesque artists will only add Solomon's symbol, the two cups, one receiving (man's), one pouring (God's) God's light, the two triangles building a star, hence 3x2=6.<br /><br />Please, if you don't believe this Book of Revelation is the whole Christian wisdom in twenty pages, please visit the Benedictine abbey-church for women in Lavaudieu, France, and you will understand how this Book became the acme of Christian inspiration. It is so true that the leaves of the tree of knowledge that grow along the river that crosses the New Jerusalem is the cure for pagans (and not their punishment).<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUns via le linking Celtic tradition. And then we understand why these churches are situated facing the East, with a North-South transept, and why these churches are the pilgrimage of the faithful from the West, the world, to the East, God, crossing the transept to enter the realm of God himself. These romanesque artists will only add Solomon's symbol, the two cups, one receiving (man's), one pouring (God's) God's light, the two triangles building a star, hence 3x2=6.    Please, if you don't believe this Book of Revelation is the whole Christian wisdom in twenty pages, please visit the Benedictine abbey-church for women in Lavaudieu, France, and you will understand how this Book became the acme of Christian inspiration. It is so true that the leaves of the tree of knowledge that grow along the river that crosses the New Jerusalem is the cure for pagans (and not their punishment).    Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R2PI2Q2KFS5NZ9	0802132758	512368592	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead	Books	4	8	17	N	N	The mechanics of absurd melodrama	We all know Hamlet from Hamlet's or Shakespeare's point of view. We identify with the hero and his lot is a pure tragedy. Tom Stoppard looks at the same story from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's point of view. Everything becomes fuzzy and more or less insignificant. No identification is possible. We enter an absurd melodrama, absurd because we cannot find our place  in it, and we are left with the « mechanics of cheap melodrama ». So we have all the deaths necessary for Hamlet to be himself but from the point of view of two totally useless and aimless characters. We are even glad they are dead at the end of the play.<br />Then fate or life or predestination is reduced to a disrupted game of hazard, a hazardous game since the players will die, but in which all rules are inefficient, even probability rules. « Something is rotten in the kingdom of Denmark » and they see it but cannot in anyway identify it. « All your life, your live so close to truth, it becomes a permanent blur in the corner of your eye ». And truth cannot be seen by them, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. We can, maybe, see it, but the play folows the wrong line for it to come out clearly. Hamlet is not a victim of anything, but just a ruthless and uncontrollable violent and crazy person who kills for reasons that are unknown to everyone.<br />This play was crucial in the history of drama because it corresponded in American history to the very moment when the consciousness of Americans started to shift from the logical imperialistic violence of Korea, to the absurd and unjustifiable violence of Vietnam. After this moment, this play, Americans will never be the same and they will always be tempted to look at the world from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's point of view, that is to say from a pointless and meaningless perspective.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	RCHL92UJP85UC	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Passion is universal	Anne Rice is back, Anne Rice brings us one more volume of the Vampire Chronicles.<br />Her multilayered style is just as good as, or even better than usual. A tale in the tale in the tale. We jump from the present to the past, and then to a distant past, and then to a recent past. We jump from Marius to Thorne, to Mael, to Avicus, to Pandora, to Makare and Maharet.<br />She jumps into Marius as the main story teller and we recognize episodes that have already been told from here Pandora's point of view, there Armand's point of view, overthere Lestat's point of view. We recognize and yet rediscover them, since the story line is the same but the point of view is all poweful to give a completely different vision.<br />The vision here is dominated by Marius and his immense sense of passion. He tells us his life of fabulous passion for mortals, for blood drinkers, for Akasha, the Queen, and the systematic loss it leads to every single time. He always creates and prompts his own loss out of his absolute passion by being extremely dominating and flying into anger and possessiveness all the time.<br />Anne Rice reveals that loce is possible among blood drinkers, a love that finds its realization in blood sharing.<br />Marius opens up our eyes to the painting and arts of the Italian Renaissance, first of all to Botticelli. This is a habit in her novels now. She skips though over the Dark Ages, the Middle Ages that she does not know enough, particularly the romanesque period and the very difficult and intelligent blending of the Christian faith into the old Celtic tradition. That makes her miss a point : the Renaissance is a movement back to ancient Roman and Greek mythology, because it is the only way to go beyond what has been achieved in the Middle Ages. To go beyond because it leaves the field of representations entirely grounded in the earth, the old Celtic earth, and it reaches for the vision of life that is entirely inspired and inhabited with light. But this obsession of light is contained in the Celtic faith, though marginally ; it is contained in the gothic style that shifts from the romanesque pilgrimage from worldly darkness to celestial light, to the elevation from dark earth to heavenly light, from an horizontal progress to a vertical ascension. The Renaissance just brings light into the artistic vision, as the core of this vision.<br />Anne Rice finally is an enchanteress with her style. It is a real miracle to listen to that style where she uses some plain words or stuctures to create linguistic life. For more curious people I will just quote here the numerous postposed adjectives, the subtle use of to with look instead of at (giving dynamism to a very static look at), or the use of the preposition unto which is little common in our language. All this creates a prodigiously dynamic style and music.<br />A masterpiece that should be read by everyone under the sun, or, if you prefer, under the stars.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUof light is contained in the Celtic faith, though marginally ; it is contained in the gothic style that shifts from the romanesque pilgrimage from worldly darkness to celestial light, to the elevation from dark earth to heavenly light, from an horizontal progress to a vertical ascension. The Renaissance just brings light into the artistic vision, as the core of this vision.<br />Anne Rice finally is an enchanteress with her style. It is a real miracle to listen to that style where she uses some plain words or stuctures to create linguistic life. For more curious people I will just quote here the numerous postposed adjectives, the subtle use of to with look instead of at (giving dynamism to a very static look at), or the use of the preposition unto which is little common in our language. All this creates a prodigiously dynamic style and music. <br />A masterpiece that should be read by everyone under the sun, or, if you prefer, under the stars.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R24Q4PGGA5LJWD	0156632772	73864050	Murder in the Cathedral	Books	5	27	34	N	N	English in spite of all	This 1935 play is a gem in English drama.<br />First, the tone, the style, the poetry are purely shakespearian. It gives the play a power it would otherwise never have. The biblical inspiration is not at all clear or direct. There are four tempters and temptations whereas Jesus only had three temptations and one tempter.<br />The play does not only recall the martyrdom of Thomas Becket. It shows he probably sinned, committed the sin of pride or vanity, though with the best intention : to establish the church as the supreme ruler. Yet this event is also the first fight between the English crown and the church, a fight that will culminate under Henry VIII with the creation of the Church of England.<br />The play is also a clear argumentation in favor of that extreme act for several reasons. One, sympathy for the underdog is not justice. Two, the killers were absolutely disinterested and were to be banished after the act. Three, this murder was necessary to strengthen the King's power, hence the country. Four, Thomas was a « monster of egotism » verging into mania and he committed « suicide while of unsound mind ».<br />But the play is a lot wider than that. It defends the simple people who suffer all the time. It defends those who possess some fraction of truth, for which it is worth dying if necessary. It advocates the most total and radical freedom of thought, freedom of speech and freedom to defend one's ideas to the bitter and bloody end that society will necessarily impose.<br />Finally it shows that England has three levels of power : the King, the barons and the church, and one level of constant fear and suffering, the people, the labourers. Here the church is curbed to the King's power. Later on the King's power will be curbed to the barons' power with John Landless, and that will be the beginning of parliamentary power, of democracy. Thomas Becket refuses to go that way, hence slowing down history by strengthening the King only and leading England into centuries of strife among barons and between two families to control the throne as the only source and center of power. Parliamentarism will only succeed fully in the seventeenth century. Thomas Becket's choice could have been different, from a political point of view that he refuses from the very start.<br />Was it a sacrifice for nothing ? We can ask the question because the people will go on suffering for ever and ever, no matter what, in this vision of history.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUnturies of strife among barons and between two families to control the throne as the only source and center of power. Parliamentarism will only succeed fully in the seventeenth century. Thomas Becket's choice could have been different, from a political point of view that he refuses from the very start.<br />Was it a sacrifice for nothing ? We can ask the question because the people will go on suffering for ever and ever, no matter what, in this vision of history.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R34XWE9DPU3MFQ	0440218659	467197478	The Crocodile Bird	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Let's be free, please	Ruth Rendell is one the living stars of modern British detective fiction. But she is also, in other books, the direct continuator of Dickens with a social and highly psychological inspiration.<br />In this book, the main heroin is completely trapped by life. At first by her mother. Then by the mansion her mother is in love with. Then by her first love-at-first-sight boyfriend.<br />The book is the full story of this imprisonment and how she will manage to get free. The ending is absolutely unpredictable and it comes after the heroin has cajoled and caressed all other possible exits, either partial, total or just thE continuation of her mother's life and obsession.<br />What is best in this book is the way the story is told. We are constantly shifting from the time when the story is told, to the past and even the distant past. The tortuous line enables us to enjoy every single chapter as a whole and then the book as an absolutely clever construction that does not reveal us the end before the last three pages.<br />A must also for those who are interested in the psychology of women in our age of their liberation. It is very well done and very finely analyzed.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R3GYAEZ1VYIF48	0520213300	531208367	The Song of Songs: A New Translation	Books	5	8	16	N	N	Love is human and divine, both	This book of the Old Testament is first of all a beautiful poem. The subject is love, love for a woman and love for a man. It is the love song of two lovers.<br />It is never erotic or pornographic, but always poetic. That is probably why it was used over and over again by composers in vespers dedicated to the Holy Virgin, particularly the first poem : « I am black but lovely, daughters of Jerusalem » with the famous songs « Nigra sum » and « Pulchra es ».<br />This book has always been considered by the Catholics as an emanation of King Solomon and as prophecy about the coming of Jesus, about the Holy Virgin.<br />It is of course possible to see a metaphor in that lovesong, the Bride being Israel, the people of God, who have neglected their vineyard and were punished for it, who have sinned and are now repenting after the fair punishment. Then the Bridegroom is God himself.<br />But what remains - above and after all - is the marvellous poetic language to describe love and the loved ones. It is probably the Book that demonstrates best the fact that the Bible is speaking of real men and women and not of unreal, virtual ones. They believe in God, which gives them a higher vision and deeper meaning, but they remain human with their attachment to love, justice and peace, the three main virtues Jesus will bring us in the New Testament.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R1DKY9XV9AMBGX	0310206081	670594069	The NIV Application Commentary : Daniel	Books	4	0	68	N	N	Daniel is in the lions' pit but also a good judge	This book is very important because it is one essential prophetic book about Jesus, one essential source for the Book of Revelation. It also contains a well-known passage about Daniel in Babylonia and his confrontation to the lions. Daniel is able to interpret dreams and visions and he is thus prophesying the future. His confrontation with the lions in the lions' pit follows the miracle of three other deported jews surviving a furnace in which they are thrown. The first section is the basis of a church opera, Ludus Danielis, performed in Beauvais, France's cathedral in the XII-XIIIth centuries. A recording of it is available.<br />But Daniel is also a model of fair justice against wicked injustice. That is how he saves Susanna from death, by logically revealing the two wicked lying elders. This is how he proves to Cyrus that Bel is an idol and not a God, and that the priests are cheating him, and all that only with logical means and devices. This is how he kills the dragon and reveals it is no God.<br />We will note that the episode of Daniel in the lions' pit is given in two different versions. As a matter of fact the second version is merged into the first version for the church opera.<br />This book is a good adventure book. It uses miracles only in extreme situations and it demonstrates that reason and logic are the fundamental tools of good government whereas deceiving and lying are the basic tools of profiteers and wicked people who detain power and want to retain it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R149G5TIV3RWBB	0310206081	670594069	The NIV Application Commentary : Daniel	Books	4	1	75	N	N	Daniel is in the lions' pit and a great judge	This Book is attributed to Saint John, but was probably written by his followers after his death on the basis of his oral teaching. It is an essential piece of Christian fantastique litterature.<br />The story is perfectly gripping and inspiring. The symbols are very complex. The numerology is fundamental.<br />God is heavily defined as binary : the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last, He-is-and-He-was. In only one instance is he ternary, when he is defined as « He who is, who was and who is to come ».<br />The second figure that is essential is seven : it is the symbol of God's power, God's punishment, God's cleansing of the world with the seven angels, the seven trumpets, the second set of seven angels and the seven bowls containing the seven plagues.<br />Yet God is not only 2. He is also the multiples 4 and 8. And what is important too is the definition of the New Jerusalem as being square with three doors on each side, hence twelve doors. 12 is the figure of perfection, the absolute perfection of the City of God on earth.<br />When we read this book with these simple ideas in mind we find that the story is thrilling, with the pregnant woman chased by the dragon, and then again the woman representing God, pregnant again, confronted to a second dragon. This symbolic image is fundamental. This « woman adorned with the sun, standing on the moon, and with the twelve stars on her head for a crown » is the representation of perfect knowledge, of the solar year and calendar, of the lunar year and calendar and of the twelve signs of the Zodiac. The dragon represents the negation of knowledge (idolatry), wisdom (fornication) and perfection (Babylon/Rome sitting on its seven hills).<br />To conclude we must understand that this vision is the basis of all romanesque art and especially romanesque churches that will join under the influence of the Benedictines, the knowledge/wisdom/ science of old from the ancient Egyptians to the modern Greeks or Romans via le linking Celtic tradition. And then we understand why these churches are situated facing the East, with a North-South transept, and why these churches are the pilgrimage of the faithful from the West, the world, to the East, God, crossing the transept to enter the realm of God himself. These romanesque artists will only add Solomon's symbol, the two cups, one receiving (man's), one pouring (God's) God's light, the two triangles building a star, hence 3x2=6.<br />Please, if you don't believe this Book of Revelation is the whole Christian wisdom in twenty pages, please visit the Benedictine abbey-church for women in Lavaudieu, France, and you will understand how this Book became the acme of Christian inspiration. It is so true that the leaves of the tree of knowledge that grow along the river that crosses the New Jerusalem is the cure for pagans (and not their punishment).<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-11-10
US	50989966	R33GJSI4ZSL8VE	0802152058	816635232	Real Inspector Hound and After Magritte (Play)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This concerns only &quot;After Magritte&quot;	Tom Stoppard here tries to create a totally magrittian world.<br />As for the visual part, it is easy since Magritte was a painter. Chaotic, illogical, absurd visual elements and characters. Some elements are moved to create new absurd tableaux, even when they are apparently the results of logical movements.<br />It is trickier to do the same with the dialogue of the play. He uses confusing words. He uses absurd language about an absent character that is described and interpreted in all kinds of ways by the various characters at various moments.<br />But what about the plot ? Stoppard throws two cops into the tableau and they are so logical that they are entangled into absurd logical lines and come to absurd conclusions. The world becomes both kafkaian and orwellian, though it remains a comedy, or even a farce.<br />Brilliantly done. Some details in the text are only visual, and would be hard to vocalize, for example the pun, on « lute- loot ».<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	RU2K6KC5MF11O	0571110940	720954785	Dirty Linen	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Kind of dirty lingerie about sexual laundering	The three plays are a whole, due to the same setting.<br />The first part of Dirty Linen is a farce about a Select Committee appoinbted by the PM (Prime Minister) to investigate the allegations of immoral conduct concerning some MPs. It is turning the whole procedure into a sham, a silly attempt. First the final report is written before the Committee meets. Second the well- named secretary, Ms Gotobed, gets undresssed little by little and reveals she has slept with literally hundreds of people in order to become some permanent sub-Secretary of some type. Third the whole report amounts to refusing the press's allegations as unfounded, but without any real investigation. It is a biassed and plain cover-up operation.<br />The second part turns the whole thing upside down. The first part was in perfect agreement with common practices in Great Britain : to hunt down the politicians who have non-politically correct sexual activities. The second part is a dream for Great Britain, with a new report introduced by a certain well-named MP, Mr French, rejecting all allegations in the name of the protection of the privacy of MPs against the right to know of the public. This is a dream for Great Britain, all the more ironical because it is the French principle : private life is more sacred than the freedom to inform. It is beyond limits for this right to inform.<br />The small play in-between those two parts is a long reverie on America described by a civil servant dealing with the application of an American for British citizenship, just because he is American. It is purely boring and lacks humor or fun.<br />This play is a famous one by Tom Stoppard. Its only interest is that it tackles a real political problem, but this problem is so trite that the play sounds like a complete waste of time.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	R6IZQQWDGXI92	0345430573	151155247	A Certain Justice (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Justice is a justified injustice at times	This detective story is a lot more than a detective story.<br />1- It is a new stage in the English genre. Sherlock Holmes was an outsider competing with the police. Hercule Poirot was Belgian, so twice an outsider. Here Dalgliesh is a member of Scotland Yard. This book is, in a way, a vindication of Scotland Yard.<br />2- It contains a deep reflection on social determinism. Both one of the criminals and one of the coppers (a man and a woman) were born and raised in a socially derelict apartment complex and neighborhood for the poor. They both had the same choice, and they chose two different ways.<br />3- It advocates a certain vision of managing people. Dalgliesh is both strict on basic rules with his subordinates, but also extremely humane, even with unprovable criminals. « It is better for a useful man to continue to be useful than to spend years in gaol ».<br />4- It displays a deep understanding of human justice and perticularly that fundamentally British principle that it is better to let a criminal go free than to imprison an innocent. This principle is surprisingly original, and also irritating for the judicial system, in foreign countries, in Europe or the USA. Any doubt about the guilt or the value, the force of a piece of evidence has to benefit the accused, no matter what. We suddenly think of Mumia Abu Jamal's case which exposes the radically opposite functioning : contradictory testimonies should benefit the accused. In this case the textimony that does not support the guilt of the accused is overlooked, if not purely negated.<br />5- Finally, this book is Dickenbsian because it gives us a phenomenal description of the psychology and the social background of all characters, policemen, policewomen, suspects, criminals, etc... We have here a fully developed social tableau of modern time Great Britain.<br />A masterpipece in the genre. When the British set themselves to doing something good, they are excellent. And the detective story genre is one field of absolute perfection for them. Three details though. The keyring of the first victim is overlooked during most of the investigation. A drawback. A jacket belt that is not in the proper place at the end. A shortcoming. What about the never answered question : « Why did he ask me to inquire about the spectacles she was wearing ? » A flaw. But such details do not reduce the value of the book as a fantastic description of modern British society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUld of absolute perfection for them. Three details though. The keyring of the first victim is overlooked during most of the investigation. A drawback. A jacket belt that is not in the proper place at the end. A shortcoming. What about the never answered question : « Why did he ask me to inquire about the spectacles she was wearing ? » A flaw. But such details do not reduce the value of the book as a fantastic description of modern British society.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	R2WDMAWDFR45C2	0802135617	438387410	The Real Inspector Hound and Other Plays	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Hound may hide another. Beware!!!	Don't expect to find these plays funny when you read them. They are written to be acted and you are supposed to see them acted on a stage by a bunch of comedians more than actors. Then they become hilarious, though maybe slightly old-fashioned.<br /><br />They are using all types of comic resources.<br /><br />First of all situational comic. Just plain absurd events, definitely always looking for things and peripetias in the most unforeseeable ways. A mother in her nightgown lying flat on her back on an ironing board with a top hat on her stomach, that's the acme of logical absurdity.<br /><br />A woman on all fours on the floor in her panties and brassiere looking for a needle she has dropped under a very critical lighting system.<br /><br />Then Stoppard uses or even overuses the contradictory recollections and descriptions of situations and people emerging from the muddled minds of the characters. And a poor man who has done nothing to the world ends up hopscotching - or is he a one-legged man who broke his wooden leg? - on the pavement in his striped pyjamas or football outfit ort prison gear with a tortoise, a football, a crocodile skin bag or whatever looking like this or that, round maybe though it could be cubic, under the arm, brandishing an ivory cane, a blind man's stick, a hockey club or a baseball bat in his left hand if it is not his right hand and it even could be a third hand after all, if the world is what it seems to be in the mind of a deranged character.<br /><br />Then Stoppard uses childish repetitive cans of words on whose wriggling he plays to produce grotesque and clownish effects.<br /><br />There is no end to that kind of humor since there is no end to the number of words in the dictionary and there is always a Miss Gotobed who will not be any Lady Lay who will rather be an upright startup secretary with a career in front of her and a reputation behind her. But who cares about what's behind? At times though it is difficult to see how a woman can show both her legs and her cleavage at the same time. She must be a contortionist.<br /><br />So we are not surprised when characters have changing identities, when Magritte is mixed up with Maigret, when some English words sound French in a French context, and vice versa, but you will excuse my French anyway. At times there is no other language but French to express absurdities.<br /><br />But well, the play as a reading piece is slightly boring since it contains nothing but long descriptions of silly, absurd and grotesque situations and the crazy dialogues of corrugated people who have so little to say that when compared to that so little nothing becomes a lot.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUan can show both her legs and her cleavage at the same time. She must be a contortionist.<br /><br />So we are not surprised when characters have changing identities, when Magritte is mixed up with Maigret, when some English words sound French in a French context, and vice versa, but you will excuse my French anyway. At times there is no other language but French to express absurdities.<br /><br />But well, the play as a reading piece is slightly boring since it contains nothing but long descriptions of silly, absurd and grotesque situations and the crazy dialogues of corrugated people who have so little to say that when compared to that so little nothing becomes a lot.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	R3I4IM8THIJEXT	0571096573	766226952	After Magritte	Books	4	4	4	N	N	How to be farcically absurd on the stage	Tom Stoppard here tries to create a totally magrittian world.<br />As for the visual part, it is easy since Magritte was a painter. Chaotic, illogical, absurd visual elements and characters. Some elements are moved to create new absurd tableaux, even when they are apparently the results of logical movements.<br />It is trickier to do the same with the dialogue of the play. He uses confusing words. He uses absurd language about an absent character that is described and interpreted in all kinds of ways by the various characters at various moments.<br />But what about the plot ? Stoppard throws two cops into the tableau and they are so logical that they are entangled into absurd logical lines and come to absurd conclusions. The world becomes both kafkaian and orwellian, though it remains a comedy, or even a farce.<br />Brilliantly done. Some details in the text are only visual, and would be hard to vocalize, for example the pun, on « lute- loot ».<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	RNY1N9WKCBXQK	0571047270	493067476	The Real Inspector Hound	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A bouquet of allusions	Tom Stoppard loves multilayered writing and drama, creating comedy or even farce.<br />This play is an allusion to An Inspector Calls. It uses travesties, double or triple identities like Shakespeare in his comedies. It is a direct descendant of Samuel Beckett's absurd drama. It is an allusion to Murder by Death.  It is thus a parody of many models and even a parody of a parody.<br />But it is also built with a mirror projecting the audience onto the stage, then projecting this projected audience into the play, and the actors into this projected audience of critics. This is again a multifaceted mirror.<br />Finally no one is true, no one is false, no truth is true, and no truth is false. All theories are purely abstract, absurd and abscond fantasies. The last layer of parody and criticism is directed at the police of course as for the plot of the play, and the critics as for the performance of the play and the play itself.<br />Stoppard is a hard hitting satirist cast loose onto the public, the critics and society. Catch out of it what you can. And nothing if you can't catch anything. Too bad for you. Stoppard will not cry.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-27
US	50989966	R23QK8WPYZL8KQ	156740961X	23941635	Stellar Audio Volume 14 (Horror Stories, Vol 14)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sara Paretsky, a great punch-line eater!	This review concerns a few stories by Sara Paretsky, &quot;A Taste of Life&quot; being the first one of them.<br />Sara Paretsky writes short stories like other people drink tea. Each story gets its real meaning with the last page, the last sentence, the last line. The punch-line that turns the whole story upside down.<br />In A Taste of Life, she shows how a daughter can be the victim of a cannibal mother who steals all she wants from her daughter out of plain fear of competition or out of spite. She steals her slimness and beauty for forcefeeding her. And she even steals her love. But the punch line makes the conflict pathetic by turning it inside out. The mother meets with her righteous retribution.<br />In Dealer's Choice the turning upside down of the situation is quite striking but less meaningful. It is after all nothing but a small very traditional detective story.<br />But in The Man Who Loved Life the punchline takes a very general meaning. The big pundit of pro-life activists, of religious biggots about the family-centered society and the father-centered family, is destroyed when, during a big commemoration of the role of the hero in the fight for life and the protection of the unborn, it is revealed that he did not know his own wife followed the other track. He looks like a fool and the pro-life movement is revealed to be nothing but a male chauvinistic sham. Brilliant.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R3PQO17WEK8353	0140261893	899427388	Jackson's Dilemma	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Puck and Ariel are hard at work.	A perfectly Shakespearian comedy. Three, practically four, weddings like in As You Like It (four) or A Midsummer Night's Dream (three). The threads are so entangled that everyone is about to marry the wrong matches. Luckily some Puck-like  Jackson appears in the picture and sets things right, with the help of a twelve-year-old boy.<br />Iris Mirdoch is quite apt at organizing sentimental suspense, bends and U-turns in the plotline, and at evoking the perverse atmosphere of a place where everything is wrong, the chaotic drama and then the cleansing of the mess and the thoroughly happy atmosphere of the crowning weddings.<br />Jackson comes from nowhere, has to go no one knows, not even him, where, and is there to sort out odd ends and unmatched couples. He brings the right ones to the right others, and he brings happiness.<br />But his alter ego is Benet, the wall-named, since his name means « dumb » or even « retarded » meaning late in historical time. He is the one who creates havoc by insisting on some totally wrong unions. This creates a new level of reading. The rich, the upper class, high society, are nothing but the psychiatric ward of the social hospital. They are all spaced out and corrugated, and their treatment comes from a guardian angel who makes them comb out straight their disorderly interlaced hairs.<br />The end is just mysterious but serene and it shifts from Jackson to the little boy who is understood as the naive Ariel of so many Shakespearian comedies. And we are at the beginning of a new stage, just like the sunshine breaks through after The Tempest.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R18KMRCLNC4Z0X	0460043765	585861927	Understanding Music	Books	3	4	5	N	N	He missed the point!	« The language ... was Latin, and the normal metre of the Latin verse was a triple metre known as tempus perfectum, consisting of trochees (long-short) and iambs (short-long) ... However, such a concept as 3/2 was not even thought of, the natural metre of the verse making so rigid a constraint unnecessary. What was taken into consideration was a form of musical symbolism by which the religious concept if the Trinity came to be associated with a triple metre ; the time-signature for such a rhythm was shown not as 3/2 but as a perfect circle, itself a symbol of perfection. » (p. 14-15)<br />When a book starts with such an assertion, I have the tendency to discard it at once, because this is simply absurd, and it is supported by no proof, no evidence. All we know is that music was duple up to J.S. Bach who introduced a heavy triple bourr&eacute;e that Mozart will make light, thus inventing the antecedent or precursor of the waltz.<br />Popular dances were triple but they were NOT in Latin. Church music was duple : check for example the Old Hall Manuscript or Willam Byrd. The latter uses the polyphony of his compositions (in Latin) to make it turn around and around, by a permanent shifting from the bass to the alto and down again to the bass via the soprano and the tenor, and back to the alto, or the other way round. To make that music dance around, they used something that had nothing to do with metre.<br />I do not say that Antony Hopkins's book is not interesting, but I cannot go beyond such an unfounded remark that kind of make fun of the concept of the Trinity which is definitely not that trite. What he says might be true with a popular dance stuck with that particular rhythm. But I would accept it as triple when I am shown the decomposition of the longer note into two shorter notes. This is not possible with Latin where the stressed syllable, in spoken language, is longer than the unstressed syllable. But the whole problem is that all other stressed languages of the Germanic family or even the romance family, oppose, naturally, stressed and unstressed syllables, not in length but only in emphasis. That will produce the famous iambic pentameter, in spite of the French or Norman influence, as for English. French will move towards a syllable-based metre and not a stress-based metre like English, or, before, Anglo-Saxon.<br />This fundamental binary rhythm will be dominant in music up to Bach, except in popular music, and in English poetry forever. In French poetry they invented a line of four groups of three syllables, hence basically triple, but because French was not a stress-based language. And that was achieved only in the 17th century.<br />An interesting book, though, in spite of its objective to speak to the non-learned in music. That too is a drawback. People have to - if they want to enter the syntax of music, hence to understand the causes of their pleasure (and no one has to understand why they like a piece of music to like it) - break themselves into the standard language of music criticism. The more they « understand » the nuances, the details, and the proper language for them, the more they can communicate with other people and enhance their own pleasure by sharing it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUGermanic family or even the romance family, oppose, naturally, stressed and unstressed syllables, not in length but only in emphasis. That will produce the famous iambic pentameter, in spite of the French or Norman influence, as for English. French will move towards a syllable-based metre and not a stress-based metre like English, or, before, Anglo-Saxon.<br />This fundamental binary rhythm will be dominant in music up to Bach, except in popular music, and in English poetry forever. In French poetry they invented a line of four groups of three syllables, hence basically triple, but because French was not a stress-based language. And that was achieved only in the 17th century.<br />An interesting book, though, in spite of its objective to speak to the non-learned in music. That too is a drawback. People have to - if they want to enter the syntax of music, hence to understand the causes of their pleasure (and no one has to understand why they like a piece of music to like it) - break themselves into the standard language of music criticism. The more they « understand » the nuances, the details, and the proper language for them, the more they can communicate with other people and enhance their own pleasure by sharing it. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R2M4LIXLCPR168	0816410798	43811481	008: Gospel According to Saint John (New Testament for Spiritual Readings)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	John is a perfect argumentator	This Gospel starts when Jesus begins his mission on earth, when he goes on his way to glory and the crucifixion. This Gospel is built with a great sense of logic, explaining the mysterious facts, now and then, and with a great sense of suspense. It is a simple and easy-to-read story about Jesus.<br />This Gospel has a very good argumentative  feeling. It tries to capture the attention and th reason of the readers. John is a born rhetorician, but for simple people, for everyone and no one in particular. The language is common, even plain, and yet poetical, clear, and yet very dense and packed with meaning.<br />The form itself is that of a very traditional romance-tale of the old old days. It is as poetical as the Rime of the Ancient Mariner, and as meaningful as Beowulf. That's why it is a very good first contact with Jesus and with  the Christian faith and God. Even young children can follow and understand the story, and their reaction can only be a deep sense of injustice from the higher-ups, sympathy for Jesus, and condemnation of those who used their power to stop the freedom of speech of those who questioned that power. And then everyone will feel a deep sense if predestination, understanding that Jesus followed a road that had been decided upon beforehand by his Father, by God himself, or, for those who do not believe in God, by the general social and political situation of the time in Jerusalem.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R3DRQDI392L89E	0802150896	430714947	Travesties	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Postmodern or just no historical perspective?	Zurich 1917, a marvellous subject. The meeting point of the Bolsheviks and other revolutionaries on one side, and of the new « revolutionary » artists, be they James Joyce and the stream of consciousness writers, or Tristan Tzara and the Dada movement.<br />The first interest of the play is to situate the dynamic of each revolutionary movement very well. Lenin is the figurehead of the revolutionary politicians, James Joyce and Tzara of the modern literature movements.<br />Then Stoppard makes them meet. In Zurich it is more or less an artificial meeting though they share most of their ideas (the files that are unknowingly exchanged at the beginning and exchanged back at the end show how identical their ideas are) and yet they have styles, general postures that make them unable to have a real dialogue.<br />Tom Stoppard goes even further by tracing along Lenin's positions on art. He shows the perfect contradiction contained - as Walt Whitman would say - by the man. On one side (Tolstoy), he understands that a work of art is a reflection (hence not a purely identical image) of social contradictions and therefore of society, and also a reflection of the contradictory artist (all artists contain contradictions) and his contradictory position in society (hence in the social contradictions of this society). On the other side, once in power, he condemns, at first, then wavers on the subject, Mayakovsky and the Futurist mocement, and definitely considers intellectuals as bourgeois individualists. But the artists of 1917 represent exactly a similar contradiction between the absolutely nihilistic approach of the Dada movement, and the mentally realistic movement represented by James Joyce. The former rejects all heritage. The latter rearranges the full heritage within a modern man's consciousness, hence within a revolutionary or disturbing consciousness.<br />The play is at times funny, at times realistic, at times dramatic, according to the points of view, but the essential one of these is the recollections two (minor) characters have of the period sixty years later. We are forced to accept that historical perspective : what it was then and what we can do of it now.<br />The conclusion of the play is typical perpetual movement, here perpetual syllogism : « Firstly, you're either a revolutionary or you're not, and if you're not you might as well be an artist as anything else. Secondly, if you can't be an artist, you might as well be a revolutionary... I forget the third thing. » Unfinished of course, like any historical achievement. History is always unfinished, in spite of Marx's dream of a contradiction-free communist society. This is the biggest sham of western philosophy ever dreamed of by a man of the amplitude and intensity of Karl Marx. You can be a genius but reality is more real than philosophy. The proof, as Marx liked to say, of the pudding is in my eating it. Full stop. Period.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUl one of these is the recollections two (minor) characters have of the period sixty years later. We are forced to accept that historical perspective : what it was then and what we can do of it now. <br />The conclusion of the play is typical perpetual movement, here perpetual syllogism : « Firstly, you're either a revolutionary or you're not, and if you're not you might as well be an artist as anything else. Secondly, if you can't be an artist, you might as well be a revolutionary... I forget the third thing. » Unfinished of course, like any historical achievement. History is always unfinished, in spite of Marx's dream of a contradiction-free communist society. This is the biggest sham of western philosophy ever dreamed of by a man of the amplitude and intensity of Karl Marx. You can be a genius but reality is more real than philosophy. The proof, as Marx liked to say, of the pudding is in my eating it. Full stop. Period.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	RWX7DR4KFTPI6	0679761799	292535740	Going to Meet the Man: Stories	Books	5	7	9	N	N	To be a man may give you the blues!	A fabulous collection of short stories that have not really aged in spite of the forty years gone since they were first published.<br />Sonny's Blues is a real gem because it shows three ways out of deprevation, out of the mental ghetto that grows in a real ghetto, like Harlem, out of desperation and dereliction.<br />One can go upward in society, become a teacher, through hard studies, get  married, raise a family. In one way, accept the American Dream and forget about the tragedy, or the nightmare. « God Save the American Republic ! »<br />One can get into music and into a completely different world of imagination, art, harmony, research, rhythm, melody, all that the world does not provide. That is the Blues, Jazz, the fairyland of OZ. Unluckily you have to go there and come back. « God pity us, the terrified republic ! »<br />And one can get into heroin, the fabulous horse of American history, the mythical horse of the Great Plains, the mystical horse of the Railroads, the heavenlike horse of Indians and Blacks. Forget all that and shoot your veins. « He who sees his veins can see his pains ! »<br />James Baldwin is a master in the field of transforming human pain into heavenly light by sharing it with our souls. It does not erase the pain. It just makes it luminous, the light of a new way to some hazardous future. « But where danger is, rescue is ready too », as H&ouml;lderlin used to say.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R1AF27JNPFJNC9	0688031110	540492837	On the Yankee Station: Stories by William Boyd	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It is hard to become of age!	A collection of stories about initiation. Killing Lizards is a marvellous story about a young boy shifting from killing lizards, as phallic symbols, to blackmailing his mother to get the love he wants from her, especially since the blackmailing tool shows the father does not control the mother any more.<br />I also loved Hardly Ever, as a frustrated initiation to sex for a teenager. His initiation is purely superficial, unable that he is to go through it, in spite of a real possibility he goes to sleep on (he goes to sleep, with a girl, when that girl is ready for more), but it is always compensated verbally by some bragging about with his school pals.<br />Gifts is even stranger. The young student is unable to get through his initiation and has to satisfy himself with some gifts. Everyone of his conquests presents him with personal or confidential elements. His poverty, caused by some postal strike, makes this experience even funnier, funny-strange, because the poorer he gets, the more private gifts he receives.<br />Boyd is a strange writer about frustrated, and even twisted, initiation for teenagers. Fascinating how they can live on this frustration that becomes their everyday food, or even fodder, the brain being more or less negated.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-20
US	50989966	R1Z3T3WBHXWXN3	0262631598	482207302	Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man	Books	5	5	6	N	N	How can intelligence survive or be revived?	Marshall McLuhan introduces us to the world of the media through history and how these media have dominated our life for centuries, from the very beginning of humanity. It explains how the invention of the phonetic alphabet has completely linearly structured our western mind, a structuring that was then amplified by the invention of the printing press. But then he jumps to THE invention that changed all that : electricity, that is still changing all that by making the old principle of linearity obsolete since electricity is founded on the principle of simultaneity. He demonstrates how today controling the flow of information is the only way to control the world. This is both illuminating and frightening. We may wonder if the Internet is not introducing a new principle : the come-back of intelligence, of intelligent analysis of data by the human brain because we finally can bring together and confront several sources and several analytical tools at the same time. The book was written before the Internet. If this is true, then there is hope. But it explains why a society, why so many people resist any new medium : it endangers their fragile equilibrium by expanding one or several of their senses, by disturbing their sense ratios, hence by giving them a feeling of amputation against which they protect themselves by rejecting the novelty. Only artists and creative minds are able to assume the new medium and even see beyond it and capture its potentialities.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-04
US	50989966	R3SYPYWDLUBZXM	0060922753	257310668	Medieval People	Books	5	42	43	N	N	The real taste of real life	Eileen Power studies the Middle Ages, not from an abstract historical point of view but from simple and real people and what we can know about them. I particularly like her study of Marco Polo, from his notes and diaries, which gives us a materialistic and realistic vision of what they saw of the world, and not what we want to see of what they saw. I also loved Madame Eglentyne, a prioress taken from Chaucer but at once identified to one particular prioress through real life archives and descriptions. A very interesting and useful book to enable us to capture the density of everyday life in the Middle Ages.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-10-04
US	50989966	RTW319QU1ANU9	0553580302	698766211	House Harkonnen (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	In the slave pits of the Beast!	In this second volume of the prelude trilogy, we move slowly towards Dune itself. So many characters and events are set in place that explain all the understood elements in Dune. Idaho Duncan, Halleck Gurney, Dr Wellington Yueh, Liet Kynes, Jessica, and some others.<br />But the main center of this volume is to describe in details the dictatorship of the Harkonnen : the disease of the Baron, the beastlike character of Glossu Rabban, their exploitation of slaves and their pleasure in hunting men, gladiator games, using human beings as prey, toys or torture entertainments. Their psychology of power for the sake of profit is explored in all possible ways and with a tremendous amount of details. There is no other political thinking for the Baron : power has to bring in a profit and human beings are nothing but the tools used to make that profit. Within the Imperium the Baron's sole reasoning is that he has to impose this vision of the state, and thus to oppose one house that represents the antithesis of it : House Atreides, whose power and political action is based on honour and the code of ethics that is derived from it. The book thus explains, or rather goes on explaining after the first prelude volume, the antagonism between the two houses.<br />The next interesting element is the seizure of Ix by the Tleilaxu with the support of the Emperor. We discover there another ruthless exploitation of men and women. Men are slaves brutally forced to work and women are experimental beings used by the Tleilaxu to produce anything they want. Women are pure chemical living machines capable of producing living matter and tissues.The absolute of immorality behind the stringest proclamations of religious orthodoxy. There again the Atreides are antinomic because they found their action on the respect of people and on their love.<br />Finally a last remark about the structure of the book. It is different from the other Dune volumes by Frank Herbert. It is true this trilogy is by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. The chapters are very short indeed and the introspection that is so characteristic of Frank Herbert's style is here practically absent or reduced to very little. The book, like the preceding volume, is essentially an action book, and suspense is essentially created by short chapters following different lines and the constant intertwining of these different lines.<br />Nevertheless, an indispensible volume to understand the whole Dune series.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. The chapters are very short indeed and the introspection that is so characteristic of Frank Herbert's style is here practically absent or reduced to very little. The book, like the preceding volume, is essentially an action book, and suspense is essentially created by short chapters following different lines and the constant intertwining of these different lines.<br />Nevertheless, an indispensible volume to understand the whole Dune series.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-09-14
US	50989966	RH7167E7M3CO3	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Sony, Nintendo and Company, Danger!!!	What happens if a child with his console and his TV can transform the real world into the world of his game ? This book is a direct criticism of the emprisonment such console games represent for young users who entirely live in the games, in the worlds of the games. For them reality does not exist. They live in the virtual reality of their games. But the book tells us this story from another point of view, that of the people in the neighborhood who discover one day their neighborhood has been closed up and tranformed into the arena of some killing games whose targets they are. The story is very morbid but the curse manages to be lifted. The book is the story of how some people realize what is happening and manage to unplug the curse and save everyone. The cops arrive when everything is finished, as usual. A gripping though very pessimistic book about electronic games and consoles. Only Richard Bachman, and not Stephen King could write such an extreme story. Beautiful and page-turning. Try it and you will never put your fingers on a console the same way as before.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-09-08
US	50989966	R2NIEOG1JIWPQW	0808519085	346025288	Cycle Of The Werewolf (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beware! The moon, full or not, is the mother of all dangers!	This book is a rare achievement by Stephen King. It was ordered to illustrate some calendar. So it follows the monthly pattern. Twelve short episodes telling us how a werewolf, well disguised and hidden in the local society of the village, is uncovered by a handicapped boy and his sister and uncle, and then trapped into a confrontation that kills him, with silver of course. The book is particularly good because of the structure in twelve short episodes, which is not common in Stephen King's novels. The book is also interesting because it denounces the « posse »-minded crowd who start a general hunt and hence expose themselves to the greedy and bloody hands and jaws of the werewolf. « Posse » reactions are more dangerous than effective. Good moral lesson, to be submitted to kids as early as possible. A really fascinating small book. ...	2001-09-08
US	50989966	RQKBV5LUQJHC6	0451197879	321732450	Roadwork	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Our global consumer's society leads to violence!!	This is a Richard Bachman book. Here one male individual, due to some roadwork around his home, blows his top and gets destructive against this consumer's society that does not provide individuals with peace and quiet, security and a healthful and healthy future. he becomes berserk and he starts destroying anything that comes from there, from out there, from this society, and then symbolically this society itself. And he does that to celebrate Christmas and New Year. His solution is final and has no return. This book reveals that a society that does not provide people with an outlet for their desire for change, a procedure for them to change their society in a way or another, they have to turn violent one way or another, either violent against other people or violent against themselves. The development of globalization is a perfect demonstration of this phenomenon. The global process is not under the control of the people, so they become discontented and they may become violent : violent in demonstrations, violent in their everyday life, violent against other people or themselves, even suicidary. Their aim becomes the pure and simple destruction of everything they can lay their hands on and that represents, in their eyes, this global society. Here it will be a McDonald restaurant. There it will be a confrontation with the police. Overthere it will be the destruction and looting of stores. And so on without any limits. This book is a call for a society where every individual will be associate with the decisions and will be able to air their ideas, opposition or agreement, a society where the opinions of individuals will be absolutely crucial, asked for and respected. And this starts at the local level. This book is very pessimistic about our society, but maybe our society deserves this pessimism. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-17
US	50989966	R3UT96XAYYTT5C	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Walk as far as you can!!!	This is one of Richard Bachman's books. The situation is extreme and it deals with the practice of a competition to the most absolute ending possible. It is a walking competition. It has a starting line but it has no finish line. The finish line will be determined by the distance the winner will be able to walk, when he is the last one on the road, because all those who stop or try to escape will be put to death. This is a denunciation of absolute competition, even of competition per se. To compete is to want to defeat the others, to crush them under one's foot, and hence it contains a destructive objective that goes against any kind of human project. It leads to practices that are unfair, unjust, unacceptable like the use of doping drugs, like the use of pushing the others off the track, like the use of limited and hidden violence to get rid of the opponent, etc. One should see the practices that emerge in cycling for instance, in the pack at the head of the race, a pack of mostly wild animals. Brutality on soccer fields or rugby fields is well known in some countries, etc. Here Bachman pushes the game to its logical ending. If you enter a competition you can only get out of it dead or the winner. Competition is torture, even on oneself, in order to determine who the best one is. Unacceptable. We dream of sports that would be more humane and less beastlike. But is there one sport where this competitive spirit does not govern the psychology of the players ? In universities this is called the paper chase. But in sports it is a flock of rats or spiders that have to conquer their grub by eliminating their opponents and competitors. We dream of practicing a sport just with oneself and competing with only oneself, trying to go beyond one's own limits but not pushing others off the race to get the title or the medal. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-17
US	50989966	R2J3R1UG2B809R	0451168615	717487152	Skeleton Crew	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An exhilarating collection of pure gems!	In this collection of short stories, Stephen King explores many themes. I will only consider some that deal with recurring ideas. « The Mist » deals with illegal, secret and uncontroled experiments by the army. Those produce monsters in a very thick mist. The characters are trapped in a supermarket and try to defeat the monsters and survive waiting for emergency services to rescue them. The tape version is very effective in its sound environment that recreates the tense and psychotic atmosphere. « Here There Be Tygers » deals with a schoolboy who is terrorized by his schoolteacher. He manages to get permission, quite an achievement, to go to the restroom during a class. But he lingers there because he meets a tiger. His lingering brings some messengers and the teacher to check what is happening, and the schoolboy gives the order - or does he really ? - to the tIger to devour the teacher. « The monkey » is by far one of the best. This monkey that comes from Asia, keeps recurring and reemerging from his own destruction, one generation after another. The crimes of this monkey are considered in two generations : that of the father and that of the sons. The parallel reveals that the monkey only comes into the picture to satisfy some destructive, more or less paranoid, more or less justified, desire to kill on the side of one male character. Two couples of brothers in two different generations and the monkey strikes again. Rivalry between two brothers. Death and killing desires in all growing young male teenagers. The attempt to get rid of the monkey will give rise to a catastrophe on the lake. In the background unemployment, poverty, moving on, frustrations of all types. Finally « « Milkman # 1 &amp; 2 » shows that in our consumer's society we must not trust in the least any thing that comes from outside, from the market, because it way well be a trap. This deep dissatisfaction that is always found in Stephen King's fiction about the mercantile and consuming society that is ours. Many more stories, all of them outstanding or very good. Rush to that skeleton and become one of its crew. Dr Jacques COULARDEAUis ours. Many more stories, all of them outstanding or very good. Rush to that skeleton and become one of its crew. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-17
US	50989966	R244KK0UML59VG	0452277752	321732450	The Bachman Books: Four Early Novels by Richard Bachman, author of The Regulators	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This here review only concerns the brainstorming "Rage"!	This 1977 novella is prophetic of the various high school massacres still to come by then and that have flourished over the last twelve years or so, and particularly the one at Columbine High School. A teenager gets berserk one day and takes his class hostage after killing two teachers. The class is then turned into a reality show during which the students reveal themselves and settle accounts. \\"Where is the monster that walks tonight?\\" Stephen King asks. The monster is inside the teenager because teenagers have learned how to stifle their own screams and to let the poisoned apple grow on the branches of the inner tree, a poisoned apple that bleeds inside like some cancer. The monster is the apple of knowledge proposed by the snake to Eve and Adam but it gets swallowed by the snake itself. When the snake swallows its apple it becomes catatonic like Ted at the end of the novella. But to get to that point Charles Decker, the student who brought a weapon to school and took his class hostage, uses the Stockholm syndrome to manipulate the class into revealing their secrets which will bring Ted to his catatonic state. There Stephen King forgets absolutely no causes for this inside bleeding reality of the teenager who has swallowed his scream. Fathers and mothers are taking advantage of their children. The high competitiveness that is imposed onto the children who become real mental cannibals against their own friends. The school system and the teachers, particularly the administration of the school, principal and guidance counselors, are severely accused of warping the children into monstrosity. Not necessarily by evil acts, though the imposed silence of the inner suffering is a crime against humanity, the monster is carefully and very actively nourished with all kinds of rules that lock the suffering inside the heart and the mind of the kids. Sooner or later it must break and it does break. After the drama then justice with three bullets will miss killing the rebel who will survive in some psychiatric hospital as insane and irresponsible. Psychiatry will get the mission of keeping that crazy young man inside some locked walls forever or at least for a very long time, and the catatonic one, the one who did not manage to get his evil out like the others will be progressively plunged into some deeper state that will become a coma and death. Psychiatry is the jailer and the undertaker. Add that that the guidance counselor who is shown as a cowardly and vain false scientist and even doctors who are only interested in their own balance that they keep by nurturing the suffering of others, here children who become the guinea pigs of their own psychosis and frustration. Medicine is not better I must say and is the institution that is entrusted with giving the sick and the guilty the last rites before dying, some kind of secular extreme unction. The horror of this novella is in that depicting a society that inseminates and then grows and raises with great care the very evil that will destroy the weak and the impatient, those who will not be able to resist and those who will rebel and will be brought down like weeds in a field. In a way it is at times poignant to see that sorting out of those who will have the right to survive in this society because they do not jeopardize it.<br /><br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Cr&eacute;teil, CEGIDill survive in some psychiatric hospital as insane and irresponsible. Psychiatry will get the mission of keeping that crazy young man inside some locked walls forever or at least for a very long time, and the catatonic one, the one who did not manage to get his evil out like the others will be progressively plunged into some deeper state that will become a coma and death. Psychiatry is the jailer and the undertaker. Add that that the guidance counselor who is shown as a cowardly and vain false scientist and even doctors who are only interested in their own balance that they keep by nurturing the suffering of others, here children who become the guinea pigs of their own psychosis and frustration. Medicine is not better I must say and is the institution that is entrusted with giving the sick and the guilty the last rites before dying, some kind of secular extreme unction. The horror of this novella is in that depicting a society that inseminates and then grows and raises with great care the very evil that will destroy the weak and the impatient, those who will not be able to resist and those who will rebel and will be brought down like weeds in a field. In a way it is at times poignant to see that sorting out of those who will have the right to survive in this society because they do not jeopardize it.    Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID	2001-08-17
US	50989966	R16GGHSOFVQ0DI	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From excellent to sublimeness	This fourth volume makes you hope there will be many more. By far, so far, the best, and the thickest. The book is packed with events and a tremendous level of creativity and imagination. At the same time the references to the previous volumes are still numerous, giving to this new episode a perfect continuity in the story.<br />The first element that jumps out is the fact that Harry Potter has been growing in age from one volume to the next, and in this volume he really has his age, thirteen. This is the mark of a very good writer who is able to follow the maturity or the maturation of the characters, so that the story is realistic. Never in the four volumes, and particularly in this volume, are the characters older than they should be. Hermione discovers social consciousness and gets interested in the fate of elves, as well as she discovers the difference between friendship and love. Ron Weasley discovers the need to believe his friends and the first pangs of love or sexual awareness. Harry Potter opens his eyes to the necessity to assume his responsibilities by learning what he needs to accomplish his tasks and the sense of honor and human solidarity even within a competition in which he tries, and he is not the only one, to remain human, with his challengers or co-competitors, instead of being an unsensitive and selfish winning machine. This is done with great subtlety and delicacy. Fred and George Weasley are older and they discover the need to have a social and economic position in society that brings in an income based on a creative project for the whole community : this is known as business in any society.<br />The second element is that the confrontation between Potter and Voldemort finally comes to a direct face-to-face one-on-one duel whose stake is life or death for Harry Potter as well as life or death for his direct friends and the whole community. The battle leaves the level of individuals to reach the level of society, a real universal value, a cosmological dimension. And in this progressively built up, and non-final because undecisive as for the life of death of Voldemort himself, frontal shock, the writer shows a level of imagination that has no limits. She uses older elements in an unforeseen or at least partially unpredictable way, and she adds new elements that are totally undeductable from the previous volumes. Suspense is absolute and never, at this level, loosened or weakened.<br />The third element is The widening of the national and ethnic scope of the book. The author introduces a competition that brings into the picture two schools from abroad : one from France and another one from eastern and central Europe. Hence there is a play on the particular « dialects » of those foreigners in their use of English, a play on food variations, on clothing variations, on transportation variations, etc. This is supposed to widen the scope of the students&#8217; consciousness and awareness of the differences that exist between and among humans to bring out a wider accepting of national and international cooperation. But she also widens the scope by introducing several other communities, particularly  some that are traditionally rejected by wizards and witches on the basis or pure prejudice, that is to say racism : merpeople, elves, goblins (a little), giants (only a beginning). The aim is always to show that cooperation between different ethnic groups is necessary to give the future some stability and predictability.<br />The fourth element has to do with political power and its abuses. Power for the sake of power (Lord Voldemort), or for the sake of stability (The Minister of Magic, Fudge), or for the sake of lawfulness (that always covers some unlawful element and some inhuman attitudes to impose the law), or for the sake of personal privileges (like the power to show off, to get publicity, to bet and gamble) leads to abuse and cecity, at least shortsightedness, the incapability to see how the future will change and warp those principles or objectives, those ambitions, those values : to be a real leader you have to keep in mind the unification of your people and the wider longer aims of human life, of social life, of history. Lord Voldemort and his followers find themselves on the wrong side of history, just the same as the Minister of Magic who only wants to protect what has achieved, which is the past, and to prolong it into the future. This idea that the future needs moral commitment and the accepting of change is essential in this book. There is a real mirror in the book that gives us a picture of our own society that uses democracy in order to capture power in the name of change and progress, and then defend it in the name of stability. Any political leader is led to conservativeness, I am even inclined to saying conservation.<br />We thus wait for the next volume that will have to deal with the fight against the revived Lord Voldemort and also with some fundamental issues that have not yet been solved : love and its outcome, the fate of Harry&#8217;s godfather, the need of justice and to avoid injustice or to repair cases of injustice, when injustice occors, etc. We can trust the writer to bring in new elements that will constantly feed the mill of suspense and imagination.and warp those principles or objectives, those ambitions, those values : to be a real leader you have to keep in mind the unification of your people and the wider longer aims of human life, of social life, of history. Lord Voldemort and his followers find themselves on the wrong side of history, just the same as the Minister of Magic who only wants to protect what has achieved, which is the past, and to prolong it into the future. This idea that the future needs moral commitment and the accepting of change is essential in this book. There is a real mirror in the book that gives us a picture of our own society that uses democracy in order to capture power in the name of change and progress, and then defend it in the name of stability. Any political leader is led to conservativeness, I am even inclined to saying conservation.<br />We thus wait for the next volume that will have to deal with the fight against the revived Lord Voldemort and also with some fundamental issues that have not yet been solved : love and its outcome, the fate of Harry&#8217;s godfather, the need of justice and to avoid injustice or to repair cases of injustice, when injustice occors, etc. We can trust the writer to bring in new elements that will constantly feed the mill of suspense and imagination.	2001-08-14
US	50989966	RF15K172WG0QP	0446675962	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Read it fast if you don't want to be behind times	This book is a beacon and a lighthouse in our transforming world of e-anything you want. Bill Gates is an optimist and it shows. I think the whole book can be reduced to a quotation by Alfred Sloan, the Chairman of General Motors : « Bedside manners are no substitute for the right diagnosis. »<br />Bill Gates analyzes absolutely all the consequences of the release of Information Technology in the Internet time onto the economy, society, administration, life. He does not take any precaution to sweeten or soften his message. You will follow this revolution, that is unescapable, or just plain die. When reduced to that the book is by far too long. But it is not only that.<br />The book studies hundreds of particular cases were the problem was confronted, solved or refused and the consequences of this acceptation to go along with modern times or of this refusal to have anything to do with such an iconoclastic approach that destroys, makes obsolete everything that was common creed in our society. Those cases are extremely well shown and described and are superbly enlightening and entertaining. Because this book is also entertaining. You will find some real pleasure in reading it.<br />But the book also goes beyond this. It is a book for all the CEOs and CIOs of the world. Hence it is pedagogical and didactic. It demonstrates what has to be done and it gives examples of the right solutions, and all the practical advice and even diagnosing recipes needed for any one to find their ways in the labyrinth and jungle of modern information times. The main objective then becomes to liberate thinking in business by entrusting machines with collecting and analyzing data, with the help of some human friends. When this thinking is finally liberated, business can use the speed of thought to increase its efficiency, its transformation and its progress. The general idea is that failure, slump or recession is never anything else but the inability to seize the day in these technological times.<br />It also, here and there, explains how Microsoft navigated through all the troubled waters of change and capitalistic success. Strange enough it makes us feel and think that the word « capitalism » itself is obsolete in global times. It is obsolete because the economy, business have to give each one member of the working team that the workers (at all levels) have to become and be for the economy to work, their total independence of thought, autonomy of decision and yet integration in the wider picture of the team. He shows marvelously that there is no business that can survive if democracy, discussion, confrontation and common objectives emerging from the aforesaid are not the very core and ethics of the economy and business. He also implies that any business has to become global to survive : global by covering the whole world ; global by envisaging the totality of a problem, product, range of products, etc ; global by the desire to dominate your field completely and totally. That leads to an understood and never expressed idea that the anti-trust regulations that are ours today are pass&eacute;, old-fashioned, ineffective, even dangerous because mutilating for thought, business and the future of the world. Then competition is no longer the same thing as it used to be : the competition between several firms producing or providing the same goods or services. Competition is innovation and this can only come through the liberation of thought and through a new organization of business : a firm has to literally control its whole field of activity but including innnovation and democracy in its everyday functioning and concentrating on the core issues and activities necesary for its global role to be total, and by understanding that free business thinking will always produce the start-up that may break you if you are not one step ahead of any possible innovation. A businessperson is both a visionary prophet and a convincing guru. And keep in mind that profit,both individual and collective, is and has always been, the objective of the human race. It empowers each and all human beings with the energy to go beyond even the farthest limits and frontiers. We do not venture in hostile lands if we do not aim at getting a profit out of it. Otherwise we are forced to do it : it is slavery or the gulag.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUndividual and collective, is and has always been, the objective of the human race. It empowers each and all human beings with the energy to go beyond even the farthest limits and frontiers. We do not venture in hostile lands if we do not aim at getting a profit out of it. Otherwise we are forced to do it : it is slavery or the gulag.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-10
US	50989966	R16U4F1NJ0ZNT	0446675962	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Read it fast, not to be behind times!	This book is a beacon and a lighthouse in our transforming world of e-anything you want. Bill Gates is an optimist and it shows. I think the whole book can be reduced to a quotation by Alfred Sloan, the Chairman of General Motors : « Bedside manners are no substitute for the right diagnosis. »<br />Bill Gates analyzes absolutely all the consequences of the release of Information Technology in the Internet time onto the economy, society, administration, life. He does not take any precaution to sweeten or soften his message. You will follow this revolution, that is unescapable, or just plain die. When reduced to that the book is by far too long. But it is not only that.<br />The book studies hundreds of particular cases were the problem was confronted, solved or refused and the consequences of this acceptation to go along with modern times or of this refusal to have anything to do with such an iconoclastic approach that destroys, makes obsolete everything that was common creed in our society. Those cases are extremely well shown and described and are superbly enlightening and entertaining. Because this book is also entertaining. You will find some real pleasure in reading it.<br />But the book also goes beyond this. It is a book for all the CEOs and CIOs of the world. Hence it is pedagogical and didactic. It demonstrates what has to be done and it gives examples of the right solutions, and all the practical advice and even diagnosing recipes needed for any one to find their ways in the labyrinth and jungle of modern information times. The main objective then becomes to liberate thinking in business by entrusting machines with collecting and analyzing data, with the help of some human friends. When this thinking is finally liberated, business can use the speed of thought to increase its efficiency, its transformation and its progress. The general idea is that failure, slump or recession is never anything else but the inability to seize the day in these technologicaltimes.<br />It also, here and there, explains how Microsoft navigated through all the troubled waters of change and capitalistic success. Strange enough it makes us feel and think that the word « capitalism » itself is obsolete in global times. It is obsolete because the economy, business have to give each one member of the working team that the workers (at all levels) have to become and be for the economy to work, their total independence of thought, autonomy of decision and yet integration in the wider picture of the team. He shows marvelously that there is no business that can survive if democracy, discussion, confrontation and common objectives emerging from the aforesaid are not the very core and ethics of the economy and business. He also implies that any business has to become global to survive : global by covering the whole world ; global by envisaging the totality of a problem, product, range of products, etc ; global by the desire to dominate your field completely and totally. That leads to an understood and never expressed idea that the anti-trust regulations that are ours today are passé, old-fashioned, ineffective, even dangerous because mutilating for thought, business and the future of the world. Then competition is no longer the same thing as it used to be : the competition between several firms producing or providing the same goods or services. Competition is innovation and this can only come through the liberation of thought and through a new organization of business : a firm has to literally control its whole field of activity but including innnovation and democracy in its everyday functioning and concentrating on the core issues and activities necesary for its global role to be total, and by understanding that free business thinking will always produce the start-up that may break you if you are not one step ahead of any possible innovation. A businessperson is both a visionary prophet and a convincing guru. And keep in mind that profit, both individual and collective, is and has always been, the objective of the human race. It empowers each and all human beings with the energy to go beyond even the farthest limits and frontiers. We do not venture in hostile lands if we do not aim at getting a profit out of it. Otherwise we are forced to do it : it is slavery or the gulag.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-10
US	50989966	ROF5UOHE5O34	0670823074	587534185	Nightmares in the Sky: Gargoyles and Grotesques	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Did not catch the many-century old value of these gargoyles	This is a coffee table book. But it does not have to be bad. The pictures, by f-stop Fitzgerald, of those gargoyles are interesting, some of them very original, but the introductory text, by Stephen King, is definitely too long for what it has to tell. The only idea of some value is that these gargoyles, and yet some of them are not gargoyles, are alive. Fine. And then what ? Why are they ugly, though some of them are not ? What is their symbolical value on twentieth century houses or buildings in New York or Chicago ? This is not answered.<br />Originally those gargoyles, a long time ago indeed, were there to protect the buildings they were sitting on, many churches among others, by fending off the real devils and monsters they were supposed to represent, and people believed these monsters and devils did exist in those days. That was the first function. The second function was to teach people (essentially on church porches or inside churches, and they were not gargoyles any more) the dangers of sinning, the devils that were waiting for us or the suffering we may be condemned to. That was a pedagogical function. They were thus alive because they represented some faith, some belief that gave them life.<br />With the passing away of religion as the center of our life, these values have disappeared, and yet they survive in a less religious value. These gargoyles, these monsters, who are not always monsters, protect our homes against the outside world that is dangerous or against our fears they are supposed to keep out. Pedagogically, they do not teach us religion anymore but they have taken over an artistic value. They have become a decoration, and they are intended to be monstrous or frightening. They are supposed to be a way the people in the house tell us to stay away, they are like shouts from those people directed at us to frighten us away, most of them. But they also have another value. They are references to classical gods, to natural elements, to cultural characters that only exist in our literatures or mythologies. Then they become some kind of showing off ordered by the owner to decorate his or her house to show everyone he or she has some culture : here Jove or Zeus, here Neptune or some Sun-God (p. 121), etc.<br />What would have been interesting, would have been the following questions. Why are some not frightening at all (p. 116, 86, 78), and why are some not looking at us at all (p. 117) ? Why are some not Christian at all, not western at all ? A Chinese one for instance page 110, if it is Chinese. And finally why are so many just plain nice and friendly, like page 90, or some kind of clown like page 115 ? They probably represent the fantasms, fears, likes and desires of the owners, builders, artists, but they cannot be reduced to nightmares in the sky. They are interesting declarations someone we dont even know is throwing at us with the hope we may understand, appreciate or like them. In other words they are not cathartic. They are a discourse directed at us and we are supposed to understand it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.racters that only exist in our literatures or mythologies. Then they become some kind of showing off ordered by the owner to decorate his or her house to show everyone he or she has some culture : here Jove or Zeus, here Neptune or some Sun-God (p. 121), etc. <br />What would have been interesting, would have been the following questions. Why are some not frightening at all (p. 116, 86, 78), and why are some not looking at us at all (p. 117) ? Why are some not Christian at all, not western at all ? A Chinese one for instance page 110, if it is Chinese. And finally why are so many just plain nice and friendly, like page 90, or some kind of clown like page 115 ? They probably represent the fantasms, fears, likes and desires of the owners, builders, artists, but they cannot be reduced to nightmares in the sky. They are interesting declarations someone we dont even know is throwing at us with the hope we may understand, appreciate or like them. In other words they are not cathartic. They are a discourse directed at us and we are supposed to understand it.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-08-10
US	50989966	R3FMKCEGLK6DOL	0879724110	623129310	The Gothic World of Stephen King: Landscape of Nightmares	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Too much intellectual tinkering, but a few great ideas	A fascinating collection of studies on Stephen King, though, by now a little old. The first intention is perfect : to take Stephen King seriously and to study him as a social, cultural and literary phenomenon, particularly in his multimedia dimension.<br />The first idea is essential : Stephen King is the son of a tradition that goes far back in US history. He is in no way a new phenomenon. He has to be studied as the heir of this tradition. But he melts two approaches together : the horror tradition and the melodramatic (I would prefer social or sociological or even psycho-sociological) treatment of his characters and themes. That's absolutely true of all his novels. We are in the real world, even when it is a fantasy like in the Dark Tower series.<br />The second idea is just as important : the impact of Stephen King on the modern world is enormous. He sells millions, tens of millions of volumes. His films are blockbuster successes. He touches an enormous proportion of the public. I disagree though with the fact that his main audience would be, on one side, middle class women looking for romance, with a touch of horror, and, on the other hand,  teenagers looking for strong emotions. As for teenagers it is a lot more complex. They are looking for direct commerce with death and suffering in a world where such things seem so remote from our everyday life. As for middleclass women, it is totally wrong. Stephen King has capitalized over the decades on his younger public to touch now practically all segments of adult society.<br />The third idea is that there is a parallel between Stephen King's approach of the cinema, his critical reading of films (Danse Macabre) and Freud's approach of dreams, his reading of drams. This is absolutely dangerous. No we cannot and must not psychoanalyze Stephen King from his books. This is childish. And no, the parallel does not exist : it is intellectual tinkering. We cannot deal with a book or a work of art the way Freud dealt with a dream. The writing of a book is at least subconscious and most of it is conscious. A dream is necessarily unconscious. A dream has a purely pictorial, situational and impulse-driven syntax, whereas a book or a film is a lot more than that : it is language and as such has one syntax. It is situations and images (projected and recreated at times in the imagination of the reader), and these have a twofold syntax : that of the author and that of the reader or viewer. A book can be read against the conscious intention of the author. Finally a book does not reflect the unconscisous impulses of the author, but the subconscious, conscious, and at times but rarely unconscious personal positioning of the author within the contradictions of himself, society and his relations with society.<br />Finally, the fourth idea is that Stephen King has a fully developed style and this is absolutely right, and that is why his books are selling so much.<br />Just as Shakespeare was not THE Shalespeare of his times, Dickens THE Dickens of his times, Stephen King is not THE Stephen King of his times. But just as Shakespeare is a universal genius, Dickens another and Whitman (who was nearly nothing in his days) a third TODAY, Stephen King will be such a universal genius in maybe less than fifty years, because he gives us a full picture of America, of its nightmares and its dreams, but also a universal picture of bad and evil at work in both society and man (or woman or children). And this is my conclusion. Stephen King can be disliked by some and loved by others, just like any author was in their days, and he will still be disliked by some and loved by others fifty years after his death, but he will then be an unavoidable author both about today's America and about the universal divided nature of man (woman or children).<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUdream. The writing of a book is at least subconscious and most of it is conscious. A dream is necessarily unconscious. A dream has a purely pictorial, situational and impulse-driven syntax, whereas a book or a film is a lot more than that : it is language and as such has one syntax. It is situations and images (projected and recreated at times in the imagination of the reader), and these have a twofold syntax : that of the author and that of the reader or viewer. A book can be read against the conscious intention of the author. Finally a book does not reflect the unconscisous impulses of the author, but the subconscious, conscious, and at times but rarely unconscious personal positioning of the author within the contradictions of himself, society and his relations with society. <br />Finally, the fourth idea is that Stephen King has a fully developed style and this is absolutely right, and that is why his books are selling so much. <br />Just as Shakespeare was not THE Shalespeare of his times, Dickens THE Dickens of his times, Stephen King is not THE Stephen King of his times. But just as Shakespeare is a universal genius, Dickens another and Whitman (who was nearly nothing in his days) a third TODAY, Stephen King will be such a universal genius in maybe less than fifty years, because he gives us a full picture of America, of its nightmares and its dreams, but also a universal picture of bad and evil at work in both society and man (or woman or children). And this is my conclusion. Stephen King can be disliked by some and loved by others, just like any author was in their days, and he will still be disliked by some and loved by others fifty years after his death, but he will then be an unavoidable author both about today's America and about the universal divided nature of man (woman or children). <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-08-07
US	50989966	RSLJ1ISCS2OL7	1580631606	855950234	The Stephen King Universe	Books	5	15	15	N	N	At last a guide, and a map.	Stanley Wiater, Christopher Golden, Hank Wagner are quite overwhelmed with their entreprise : to describe the Universe of Stephen King's fiction. But they do a marvelous job at it, even if some purists may find some mistakes, contradictions, etc. Each entry gives you a general presentation of the work, then a presentation of the characters and finally eventual adaptations to the screen.<br />They also include in their work (which is not an encyclopedia) the works that were only produced for the screen, like The Golden Years and Cat's Eye<br />They try, everytime it is possible to connect the characters, places , situations and artifacts from one book to the others. That is where the purists find some mistakes or misleading elements. But, as far as I know it is the first time such a book is published in such a format, in such length, hence in such usefulness, not only for Stephen King fans or addicts, but also for those who consider Stephen King's multimedia fiction as a social, cultural, and even political phenomenon that has to be studied in depth, in its plots, in its style, in its cross references. And it is not a simple compilation if not piling up of raw data, as so many other attempts amount to. No reference given here by me.<br />Let me regret one thing though : the sources are not given, and that is a shortcoming. Stephen King always or nearly always works from a « model », a starting block that is a prompter : a film, a book, a situation (from the news for instance), and it would be interesting to show how on some themes he does not distanciate himself from the general principles of the model (Vampires are beasts that have to be destroyed, except in the long short-story « Popsy » where the vampire is actually a justice-maker and with a family structure behind : grandfather and grandson), to show too how on some themes, like Extraterrestrials, he takes a stand between two models and chooses the urban paranoid one : destroy them to the last. Where are the Encounters of the Third Type ? I will regret, for example too, that they do not study the rock and roll quotations in Christine. They are the reference used by King and they are meaningful and significant.<br />A last remark : works are not in chronological order, neither of their actual writing nor of their publishing. This is also a handicap for those who want to understand the evolution of King's art and influence.<br />An essential book nevertheless.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUEncounters of the Third Type ? I will regret, for example too, that they do not study the rock and roll quotations in Christine. They are the reference used by King and they are meaningful and significant.<br />A last remark : works are not in chronological order, neither of their actual writing nor of their publishing. This is also a handicap for those who want to understand the evolution of King's art and influence.<br />An essential book nevertheless.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-07-31
US	50989966	R2CGAKH6Q1O13Q	0553110616	737842842	House Atreides (Dune: House Trilogy Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Eventful Prequel	A very interesting and fair attempt at extending the Dune series. The idea to start with a prequel is a great idea because it provides us with the elements that we could only guess in the first novel by Frank Herbert. The fact that the prequel is supervised and partly written by Brian Herbert, Frank's son, is a guarantee that it is fairly faithful to the originals. We thus discover why the Baron is inflated and sick. We thus discover details about Rabban's personality (if we can call this a personality) and his family background. We also get data about the Emperor  and his Bene Gesserit wife. We also get data about the Atreides family : the death of Paulus, the beginnings of Leto I, his personality, his friends. We also understand the ups and downs of Ix and the Vernius family. In short it gives us the background of the first novel, and this is a good thing.<br />But such an attempt has a drawback. The style of the two writers (Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson) has little to do with Frank Herbert's. It is entertaining, informative, rich, packed with dense action, but the main characteristic of Frank Herbert's novels is missing : there is little introspective explanations. The characters get their psychology from their actions, whereas with the father they got their psychology from their constant introspection and teaching, first : action was only quite vague as for the psychology and motivations. Those who are on the verge of a caricature are the Bene Gesserit, the witches. Their motivations are hardly explained, except in breeding programs (with no details) and their direct active meddling with the current course of events. We do not get any perspective in their long term objectives and in their motivations, let alone their constant use of Other Memory and their constant questioning of any decision anyone of them is taking within their fields.<br />Thus, the characters seem to be in their infancy. We have the impression we are in some kind of limbos from which great depth will eventually, later come out. But it is a page-turner indeed.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAUgreat depth will eventually, later come out. But it is a page-turner indeed.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU	2001-07-31
US	50989966	R36C36XLKK1L2E	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deserves 5 three quarter stars!	This third volume is packed with magic and suspense. It starts dramatically from the very beginning. Harry Potter is chased in all possible ways and he will finally discover the truth about his father and mother, about their death, about who the traitor was, about who the victims were. New dimensions of the magic world will appear and the book develops a wide side of horror. The main characters in this new dimension are the Askaban prison wardens, the Dementors. But this book also develops the vision of the magic world from a political point of view. We deal with its government, and especially with the fake justice that reigns there, a justice that takes decisions under the pressure of some bullying VIPs who frighten those who have to take decisions. And we find out that there is no way to escape that fake justice, except if some wiser people decide to go against it in the wings and deprive this blind system, and justice is blind as blind can be, of its preys by cheating with the system, and, there, only magic enables such cheating. In other words, it is a criticism of normal society that works the same way, whose justice is just as blind as here, but in the real world there is no magic, hence there is constant miscarriage of justice that cannot be prevented nor repaired. This book is thus becoming a critical metaphor of the real world. The book is also interesting because we follow the heroes in their growth, one year after another and the author is marvellously able to make them grow under our eyes. They are children, but they become more and more mature with each volume. So far they are young enough to grow in maturity only in the field of their intellectual and social awareness and responsibility, in the field of their social, ethical and cultural principles. They discover injustice and are repulsed by it. They discover hate and they are both dejected and disgusted by it. The main asset of the book remains that the world we are discovering is a real world, with human feelings, with families, with a social and economic organization, etc. It is not a parody of the real world, at the most a metaphor of it, but it is a fully developed world with fully human characters, even if they are wizards and witches, even werewolves. And this particular trait shows us how racist a society can be that rejects those who are different because they are different and are seen as dangerous, though they can be dealt with in a humane way and helped to be totally inoffensive, their particular qualities becoming assets for everyone. A brilliant third volume that is such a page-turner that the back cover is reached even before the front cover is opened.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities IXhuman feelings, with families, with a social and economic organization, etc. It is not a parody of the real world, at the most a metaphor of it, but it is a fully developed world with fully human characters, even if they are wizards and witches, even werewolves. And this particular trait shows us how racist a society can be that rejects those who are different because they are different and are seen as dangerous, though they can be dealt with in a humane way and helped to be totally inoffensive, their particular qualities becoming assets for everyone. A brilliant third volume that is such a page-turner that the back cover is reached even before the front cover is opened.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities IX	2001-07-18
US	50989966	RAJ089BQT8YPU	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Be prepared to any surprise!	It's not excellent. It's delirious. This second volume of Harry Potter's adventures is full of twists and unforeseen, unforeseeable new elements that pop up all the time, around every corner and page of the dark corridors of this bewitched castle and of this book. We are following a line that no one can in any way know before they reach the very point where they are and, even there, they cannot know the next point, the next surprise, the next fright, the next epiphany. Harry Potter disregards every rule you can imagine, and that is a real pleasure because the story is thus a jungle of at times breathtaking new steps in a long pilgrimage through a world that is nothing but a big basket of magical events.<br />But this book is also a severe criticism of a certain adult world, either the real world of humans, or this world of human relations transposed into the world of wizardry and witchcraft. The bad ones are not outside in the human world, but inside in the magic world. Some have ambition and have to crush the others to realize them and they don't hesitate in front of any crime, lie or misdeed to achieve their goals. Better get the worst and evilest monsters out of their locked chambers than fail in reaching the targets those ambitious people have set to themselves in order to cover up their evilness and their blackmailing domination.<br />What's refreshing in this book is that salvation comes from some twelve year old kids, because kids are the future of the world, with the discreet support of some adults that are slightly more intelligent than others and have more courage than others, the courage to look for good and to push back evil forces. This makes this book very optimistic about humanity. The real magic is then no longer witchcraft but just human values like love, friendship, truthfulness, faithfulness, intelligence, imagination, visionary insight. This is a book that any adult should be required to have read, studied and analyzed to the very point of understanding it and accepting its moral teachings. Our world would be so much the better if it were so.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.standing it and accepting its moral teachings. Our world would be so much the better if it were so.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-07-12
US	50989966	R2HUL656VVVNC3	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Never play with fire	Once gain, the book is a lot better than the film. The film has the general line of action, has the main knots of the plot, but the book gets into the deeper minds of the father and the daughter and it gives the story a lot more credibility. The general line is once again the evil experimentation by the army or some secret services of some drug devised by some crazy doctor. The results are a strange power for the father who was submitted to the expriment, and an even greater power for the daughter who was born from the union of the couple who both were submitted to the drug. The secret services want to study this power in order to produce some news soldiers who would fight without weapons but with their minds. But the very fact that they attack her father makes her so crazy that she uses her power to its full might and destroy this world of manipulation of human beings. But it goes one step farther. The girl is finally safe when she goes to the Rolling Stone magazine and reveals the whole story. The press is all powerful, when they want to be, to stop such scandals and gross over-use of power. This magazine is a far better choice than the one in the film, because it shows that what we could call the pop margin of society is the real protection the whole society has against the abuse of political or military or occult power. The film is also a lot deeper as for the mother and the indian agent. Once again, read the book first and foremost. It is great. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-07-06
US	50989966	RYYKBBU48SDIV	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sparrows are powerful	This book is essential in Stephen King' world. It deals with fundamental problems. First it deals with the problem of writers who use pen-names. The pen-name becomes somewhat of a real character, a real person. Never use a pen-name, except if you have something to hide, because sooner or later you'll have to kill him, to bury him and he may come back for a vengeance on you for his annihilation. And that's what happens. Then King uses an important twist in his vision of man : man is always double in a way or another. Here he carried, when a child, his own twin in his brain and this twin had to be surgically taken out and destroyed. This is some kind of medical twist that has a certain amount of believibility. But when the killed his pen-name, and character of thrillers, he comes back for a kill. So he follows the author and kills in the most ruthless way all the people who are close to him. But he carries his finger prints and he signs all his crimes as being those of the author. This one has to evade the police surveillance he is under to manage to trap his double and to bring him to the house where he is going to kill him a second time. And there comes the magic. The life of the one means the death of the other and vice versa. So when the double starts writing, the writer starts dissolving. But nature, the nature of the indians and the nature of all mythologies, has a solution to such a situation : sparrows. And a myriad of sparrows come from hell to take the double back to hell where he belongs. This is a re-write of the famous scene by Hitchcock but with the mythical dimension it does not have in Hitchcock's films. The book is very powerful because of the enormous quantity of details and personal reflexions that were dropped in the film. The author gets a real depth in all that, and what a depth. Please read the book. It is a hundred times better than the film. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-07-06
US	50989966	R3QE8SD37LSDO0	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best will always be the best	The English have always been, over the last 150 years, the best and most creative writers of children&#8217;s books, and Rowling, in this case, is the latest child of this long and rich line.  This book is the story of a young teenager who is a wizard by birth and is taken to a wizards&#8217; school to learn the trade. The adventures are the best I have ever read on the subject. It completely regenerates the art of wizardry and the literature that comes from it. It is a whole and complete world with real families, real children, real brothers and sisters, friends and fiends. But moreover it is a world deeply possessed by the fight between two different types of magic : the clean and respectable line that is the official one, and the dark line that is trying to take over. This dark line even has its spies and servants in the other line and the fight is always to the finish and death is the stake. The child, Harry Potter, is a brilliant naive and courageous child that has the guts to oppose the dark forces and to defeat them with the help of a brilliant wizard who is working in the wings. But what is most beautiful is that those kids are real kids, with all the interests and the passions of children. It is a mirror of our world that really teaches courage, truthfulness, resistance against bad forces and the need to only rely on real strong convictions and not on vain rules coming from a society that only tries to regulate the chaos we live in and are only able to let the door open for dark forces to take over....Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-07-06
US	50989966	R25T0NAXDT9Y7V	0761986286	559567711	The McDonaldization of Society	Books	4	14	21	N	N	A good but biased beginning!	George Ritzer in this book gives us a quick survey of the history of McDonald's restaurants. Then he analyzes in depth the four parameters of this phenomenon : efficiency, calculability, predictability, control, and then moves to his criticism of this rationality, what he calls the irrationality of rationality. The book is absolutely biased because it does not take into account the tremendous improvements such a phenomenon brought to society : a certain liberation of women from housework with take-away restaurants, the possibility to work shorter hours by reducing the lunch-break to a very short period of time, hence enabling people to go home earlier and to have more free time thanks to less wasted time, the possibility for many millions of people to go to a restaurant, without spending there a tremendous amount of time, and some of those millions might never have had this opportunity in the old times. What's more Ritzer forgets that it has always been a fundamental objective of humanity to reduce wasted time, to reduce heavy, difficult and long tasks to mechanized lighter, faster and easier tasks. We can discuss the percentage of fat in McDonald's burgers, but we cannot say this type of rationalization goes against humanity : it is in perfect continuity with what humanity has always tried to do. When the printing press was invented it rationalised the production of books and made old « books » obsolete (what a loss when we know the beauty of such old middle-ages books), but it also enabled the multiplication of such books and the lowering of their cost, so that a whole revolution came out of it : the spreading of the printed Bible transformed the Christian world with no chance to go back to the limitation of the knowledge of and access to the Book to only a minority that could do and say what they wanted. This book is essential to understand our modern world, but it is dictating a model that has become in many ways obsolete. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.es II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	R1D119GLE2JTH6	0441102670	337219306	Chapterhouse: Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 6)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	To escape an enlightened dictatorship is the only way.	This is the last volume of the saga. The Reverend Mothers of the Bene Gesserit are confronted to the Honored Matres. The twist is the capture of one Honored Matre, in the previous volume, and her training as a Reverend Mother, so that she can join the physical capabilities of the Horored Matres and the psychological and mental capabilities of the Reverend Mothers. So the two hostile orders, after a swift war, with the victory of the Bene Gesserit first, immediately reversed into the victory of the Honored Matres, are joined into one by this ex-captive Honored Matre become Reverend Mother. She hence becomes the leader of both orders and she can fulfill the plan of her predecessors, in the Bene Gesserit as well as of the Honored Matres, in joining the two by teaching diplomacy to the Bene Gesserit and by educating the barbaric Honored Matres. A new phase in the development of both orders will be reached by the synthesis of both, through symbiosis. But we also have the explanation of the origin of the Honored Matres. They are the descendants, in the Scattering, of the Fish Speakers who were the guards of the Tyrant Leto II issued from the religion of the sister of Muabdib, the father of Leto II. This religion, dominated by a woman, was an administrative democracy turned dictotarial, and in the Great Scattering that followed the death of the Tyrant Leto II, these Fish Speakers that Leto II had recuperated from his « aunt » join forces with wild Reverend Mothers and Scattered Reverend Mothers. They joined the physical power of the Fish Speakers and the sexual obsession of the Abomination who created the religion from which they originated. They, on the other side, neglected the mental element of the Reverend Mothers, the Bene Gesserit, by being cut from this Bene Gesserit. So they are mentally underdeveloped and they are only aiming at controling the world through violence, that they had brought to an unrivaled level, and sex. They turned criminal and conquering when they were pushed back, into the Old Empire, from the Scattering by new beings probably created by some genetic manipulation devised by the Bene Tleilaxu, the famous Futars (half cats and half men) that can only behave, have a coherent action if they have their Handlers behind, these Handlers being the humans who are programed to control them. This plan succeeds, but four people refuse it and decide to escape : the last Tleilaxu Master who was the prisoner of the Bene Gesserit and never submitted (he carries a whole bank of ghola cells that he managed to keep secret from the Bene Gesserit) ; the last Ghola of Idaho Duncan who had always refused to submit to the Bene Gesserit and willfully take part in their plans, though he helped them but always as a prisoner and because of his « love » for the ex-Honored Matre turned Reverend Mother ; the last descendant of Leto II, the Tyrant, who has the power to dominate the sandworms, who saved one from Dune when Dune was destroyed, and who started reviving the worm civilization on Chapter House, with the benediction of the Bene Gesserit, but also as a well-hidden challenge to that Bene Gesserit, and she takes a few of those « baby » worms to the Scattering with her ; and finally the ghola of Teg Miles, the Bashar of the Bene Gesserit who managed their final attack and victory turned defeat and then turned victory back again. In other words the last remnants of the Atreides family escape from the new order of the alliance between the Reverend Mothers of the Bene Gesserit and the Honored Matres. When the mental powers of the Bene Gesserit are joined to the physical and sexual powers of the Honored Matres, leading to an enlightened dictatorship, the only sensible attitude is to escape and fly away, and there are always some accomplices in such a situation. So they succeed. We will never know the following phase, that is to say the foreseeable confrontation of the new Bene Gesserit and Honored Matres order on one hand and the new civilization the escapees are going to produce in the Scattering. But well, a saga is never finished. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.ilization the escapees are going to produce in the Scattering. But well, a saga is never finished. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	R1T2U9WZZZISXA	0761956093	581284324	Virtual Politics: Identity and Community in Cyberspace (Politics and Culture series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Virtual communities are real communities of a new type	This book is a collection of articles, but each is essential. The main discussion in this book is that of the concept of community. It is no longer, in cyberspace, what it used to be : people meeting at the same time, in the same place with common interests. It has to be redefined and discussed : the casual meeting of people from different places at the same time (though it is not the same clock time for each one of them) with no immediate and environmentallly-imposed common interests but with common intesrests that are selected by them and having to do with the topics each one of them is interested in at that moment of meeting. But this is a real community. And many articles show how the exchanges between these casually-meeting people can mutually influence the definitions they have of the topic, clarify the understanding they have of the stakes of the topic, and even modify their points of view and hence their attitudes in society when they get out of cyberspace. Cyberspace communities are thus becoming a permanent school based on exchanges, discussions and direct influence from one cybernaut onto the other or others. This has a direct influence on the definition of the individual and therefore on the definition of politics, because debates and information become the basis of the elaboration of one's political ideology and positions. Cyberspace is democratic in that way even if it is not based on voting but on confronting and exchanging. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	RFD5ZF1OC188I	0761955267	406611954	Virtual Culture: Identity and Communication in Cybersociety	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Is the Persona a defense or a culprit?	This book is essential to understand the concept of persona in cybersociety. It is based on many articles that take examples of exchanges among people on one chat or in one forum, and how these exchanges can be effective as for changing the points of view of the cybernauts, to elaborate a common interest among the participants of the site who may have come together haphazardly or out of mere chance. It also shows how arguments can be effective on others and even push some negative topics into some straits, such as racist points of view that are confronted to arguments the standard racist paticipants have little chance to get across in real society, due to the ghettoisation of ideological groups. This book also shows how one gets onto the Internet, into these forums and chats by deciding on what personae they want to have, persona that may have little to do with the real selves of the persons behind : a male becomes a female, etc. This leads to a serious discussion of crime in such an environment. A crime is the result of the non-respect of a rule set by the webmasters of the site. But it cannot be dealt with as if it were the same « crime » in society. Hence a sexual crime in such an environment has little to do with the same sexual crime in society because it is a virtual crime, a crime that has no reality, no real direct consequences. Anyone can anyway protect themselves against such « agressions » by the personae they choose (some kind of shield that keeps the anonymity of the individuals), and by always being able to log-off, get out of the site. So what is a proper punishment for such « virtual crimes » ? The question is at least extremely complex and such crimes cannot be dealt with by normal courts. So what procedures and what « courts » can exist on the Internet. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	R2JV0HL5POM337	0451163524	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Three more to be four on the quest	This second volume of the Dark Tower series is essential because it sets up the team of people who are going to start the pilgrimage to the Dark Tower itself. These three people are extracted from our real world by the Gunslinger, Roland, who crosses the limit between his world and our world to choose the three companions he needs, to build up a group of four (an essential number in Stephen King's books). First a young teenager who is able to see a red rose in an abandoned lot in New York. He has the imagination of children and he believes in what he sees in his inner eye and hence has the power of childhood, a power that can transform the world. The second is a heroin junkie who is extracted from our world and has to go through a withdrawing period in his new environment, and this period is very difficult for his companions but also very instructive for the readers, and especially young readers, who discover how ugly such an addiction can be or become in some conditions. The third is a black woman who has been crippled in the subway by some criminal who threw her on the tracks in front of a train and she has lost her legs. So she is in a wheelchair. She is very bitter about the world, crime, and her handicap, and here again there is a heavy pedagogical value in this character because we discover how her new « mission » liberates her from her bitterness. This black character is also one of the very first fully developed black characters in Stephen King's books, and as such is a sign of an evolution that will be amplified in later books. All these characters have to learn how to survive in this strange and decaying world in which they are precipitated. This book, like the other volumes of this Dark Tower series, should be heavily recommended to a younger audience. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	RRE3TQOELLWWY	0761955402	330725458	The McDonaldization Thesis: Explorations and Extensions (Studies in Rural Culture)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Reject the telephone as a simulacra of communication!	In this second book, George Ritzer pushes his general thesis to extremes that become nearly absurd. To pretend that credit cards are a simulacra of money is true, but money is a simulacra of bartering. To reject credit cards because they are a simulacra is like rejecting the market place and that would make us go back to what ? When were commercial exchanges between people not using some tokens, some simulacra of the value of the exchanged goods ? But he even goes further : organized tourism or cruises are a simulacra of the discovery of a new territory. We can discuss the simplification such organized tourism brings, but should we go back to the old « tourism » of previous centuries and reintroduce colonialization, the genocide of encumbering populations, slavery, and some other side-effects (that were rather the direct objectives) of such adventures ? Same thing with Disneylands and other entertainment parks. They are only the development of the old fairs and festivals of previous centuries that took place on market day or on some special occasions, like carnivals and pilgrimages and some others. The only difference is that we can visit such parks all year around, and if some are intellectually limited, the number of those who go deeply into some topics are numerous, and, would I say, more and more numerous, presenting sciences, technology, history, geography, and many other topics. And the mass-basis of these make them cheap, a lot cheaper when we take into account the amount of subject matter. And we can have in a short period of time and in the same locale a tremendous amount of information that we could only have through long and tiresome research before. This leads us to the Internet. A simulacra of communication or research ? Certainly not. A new dimension of communication and research. It might be used in an underdeveloped way. But it does not have to be that and people are learning, provided schools, universities and social institutions lead them into it, incite them to do it. An interesting point of view but we must remain very alert not to be thrown into some kind of retrograde ideology. Would anyone ever think of rejecting the telephone as a simulacra of communication ? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.incite them to do it. An interesting point of view but we must remain very alert not to be thrown into some kind of retrograde ideology. Would anyone ever think of rejecting the telephone as a simulacra of communication ? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-23
US	50989966	RS46ITURTK99S	0452279615	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	3 from our world to build a team of 4	This second volume of the Dark Tower series is essential because it sets up the team of people who are going to start the pilgrimage to the Dark Tower itself. These three people are extracted from our real world by the Gunslinger, Roland, who crosses the limit between his world and our world to choose the three companions he needs, to build up a group of four (an essential number in Stephen King's books). First a young teenager who is able to see a red rose in an abandoned lot in New York. He has the imagination of children and he believes in what he sees in his inner eye and hence has the power of childhood, a power that can transform the world. The second is a heroin junkie who is extracted from our world and has to go through a withdrawing period in his new environment, and this period is very difficult for his companions but also very instructive for the readers, and especially young readers, who discover how ugly such an addiction can be or become in some conditions. The third is a black woman who has been crippled in the subway by some criminal who threw her on the tracks in front of a train and she has lost her legs. So she is in a wheelchair. She is very bitter about the world, crime, and her handicap, and here again there is a heavy pedagogical value in this character because we discover how her new « mission » liberates her from her bitterness. This black character is also one of the very first fully developed black characters in Stephen King's books, and as such is a sign of an evolution that will be amplified in later books. All these characters have to learn how to survive in this strange and decaying world in which they are precipitated. This book, like the other volumes of this Dark Tower series, should be heavily recommended to a younger audience. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-17
US	50989966	R2OPPEIYGKU9NO	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A fantasy version of the evil Dark Man	Officially this is a book for children, children who like fantasy and magic. The main character is a child who is trying to save his world from the grip of a sorcerer, a version of Flagg, the Dark Man, who controls this world through his magic and his constant spying on people. The child is imprisoned in a tower and he manages to escape. This tower is of course a reminiscence or a premonition of the Dark Tower of the series of novels that is not yet finished. This tower is essential in Stephen King's work. Here it is a prison that you must escape from. In the Dark Tower series it is a tower that you must reach to regenerate and save the decaying world. It occurs in other novels in different shapes and with different values. The struggle between the child and the wizard is very well organized and full of suspense and fear. The fantasy is always understood as referring to a world that is under our own world, though this aspect is less clear than in other books like The Talisman. This other world is definitely referring to the Middle Ages and of course to the Round Table Knights, King Arthur and Merlin. This book should be promoted a lot more for young teenagers. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II anc IX.	2001-06-17
US	50989966	R2CT7RZIJ3LNVV	1559724692	508451685	The Lost Work Of Stephen King: A Guide to Unpublished Manuscripts, Story Fragments, Alternative Versions and Oddities	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	A useful book about the working method of the Maestro	This book does not contain any complete work by Stephen King, but it explores many texts or other works that are little known and that are at times difficult to find. It sums up the texts, works, stories, etc, gives the starting line and at times the punch line, analyzes these works and evaluates the chances one may have to get them. Some of these works are nowadays more readily available than said in the book. It is the case of « L.T.'s Theory of Pets » that has been published in an audio cassette version as read by Stephen King himself in London in 1998 (Stephen King Live !, 1999) or of « Lunch at the Gotham Caf&eacute; » read by the author and published in the form of a CD audiobook (Blood and Smoke, 2000). This book gives some insight on how Stephen King works by exemplifying working or alternative versions of some books we know, and by also covering some rare pieces that show how adventurous and compulsive a writer he may be. I particularly appreciate the column he has in The Maine Campus from february 1969 to may 1970. A must, in other words, for the students of Stephen King's works, the Stephen King literate and the Stephen King lovers. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-16
US	50989966	R2AWXQGO215TV	0451162072	639916239	Pet Sematary (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mic Mac and trucks are plaguing life from beyond death	Here the book is just as great as the film. Yet the book gives a better notion of the stressful episodes, particularly the death of the hidden handicaped sister of the mother, and the guilt of her parents, particularly her father, a guilt that he re-directs against his son-in-law that he accuses of all evil events, such as the death of his grand-child. The book emphasizes heavily on the dangers of trucks on American roads. The book gives a full account of previous uses of the « pet sematary » as a ressuscitating means : and the Indian background is better put forward. But all together the film is a good introduction to the book, the book giving more details, more flesh to the story. And that is Stephen King's essential genius : he dives into the thick material of American society and we are in the midst of the dramas of this society, dramas that are contained and carried by the contradictions of the society  itself. That gives to the magic of the living dead (a student who was killed when jogging on a road) and of the Indian folklore behind the story a realistic dimension that makes those elements a lot more acceptable and believable than they would be otherwise. Stephen King is one of the great writers of American literature because of this realistic dimension, and because of his language that integrates popular language in the most creative and dramatic way. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-15
US	50989966	RM0Q5RTGZ9VSK	0451161351	381306153	Cujo	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The poor punish the rich	The book is, by far, better than the film. It is better because it describes in details the social environment of the drama. First it describes very well the profession of the father who is working in advertising and is confronted with a crisis about one of his popular TV advertisements about cereals. We follow this crisis and the solution that has to be found in the context of a possible law-suit from some customers who attribute some health problems they have to the consumption of the cereals he advertises. Second it describes very well the psychological problem of the mother who is « neglected » by her husband due to his stressful situation. He has to think of his money-making career first and he is less of a loving husband due to his lack of time. So she has a liaison with a crafstman, a liaison that is a quest too : the search for a man who is purely male and even a little bit beastlike in his sexual performance (sex for sex and nothing else). Third the description of the car problem is more detailed, and it is this problem that determines the drama. Fourth the description of the « popular » family of the car-repairman is also more detailed : domineering husband, submissive wife, son taken inbetween this difficult relationship. In Stephen King&#8217;s novels, the details are essential because they give a full picture of American society. They make the books realistic, a fresco of American life, and this gives Stephen King a dimension that can compare with some of the greatest names of American literature, like Dreiser. The core of the book is that the son of the rich family is the victim of the dog (a toy of a kind) of the son of the poor family. This make the book tragic. Then the death of the rich kid in the hands, in the arms of his mother shows how her « mistake » is severely punished, as well as the mistake of the father who does not solve a material problem out of spite because the liaison was revealed to him in the midst of his own professional crisis. He kind of abandons his wife to her own means and she is not able to cope with a rabid Saint Bernard. But who would be ? ...e kind of abandons his wife to her own means and she is not able to cope with a rabid Saint Bernard. But who would be ? ...	2001-06-15
US	50989966	R3VKE8ABSAQ3BJ	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beware the father is in a killing mood	Here Stephen King is reaching a high that is a real acme. An alcoholic teacher is fired from his job. He has a past of violence against his son. His wife is fearful and frightened. But he gets a job as the caretaker of a hotel in the Rocky mountains for the winter. The family is thus isolated in this hotel that was built on an indian cemetary. It is thus haunted and little by little the hotel will take over the sanity of Jack, the caretaker who will identify with all the past dramas that occurred in this hotel and he will little by little become the axe that is supposed to kill his wife and his son. The trick in this book is that the son has some special ESP power and he can communicate with the black cook who will be alerted and will come to the rescue but to no avail. A drama that is poignant because the father wants to kill the son and in the end the son kills the father. This father-son relationship is absolutely unevadable. It has to go to the end of its perspective and this perspective is death for one or the other. King chooses the father and hence reenact his own personal drama : a son, without a father and somewhere feeling guilty for this absence. If you are not afraid of getting claustrophobic by reading this claustrophobic story, please run to it and devour it. You will liberate your deepest guilt : the mythical killing of the father that has pervaded our civilization since the very first moment it came into existence. And you may even think of Jesus, the son, who is put to death by the decision of the father, a decision the son accepts and assumes. Here it is like the revenge of this crime and the search of an exit that will save the son from the claws of the father. Are all fathers invading crushing weights ? No answer can be provided. Please see the psyche of the man who wrote the book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-10
US	50989966	REFUMCO9WKPLH	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A curse is forever and we are all darkness to the core	This is not a Stephen King book, but a Richard Bachman book. A lawyer, one day, has some clintonian activity in his car with his wife while driving. he hits a jaywalking old gipsy woman and kills her. The police chief will excuse the driver. The judge will acquit him. But the father of the old lady will curse them three. And then it is a fight between the lawyer and the old gipsy man, a fight to death. The maffia will be brought into the picture and they will victimize the gipsies all along the Atlantic coast of New England. Finally the old gipsy man will take his curse back but in such a way that the lawyer will have to pass it to someone else, and he chooses his wife. But unluckily his daughter will be caught in the trap too and the lawyer will take the curse onto him again but with no possible return on the passing it on to other people. There is thus no escape, no future. The curse has to run its course to the end. This book is both suspense and total absolute fate. No way out of it. The simple reason why it is so fatalistic is because there is no light in man, just the dark side, dominant and all-invading. No fight between light and night, but only between night and night, between two darker shades of darkness. A thriller that has the taste of a moral tale about the deepest nature of man. But a moral that brings no salvation....	2001-06-10
US	50989966	ROHQ6S2I64O2Z	096518790X	234869718	Not Between Brothers: An Epic Novel of Texas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Multiculturalism is not easy.	D. Marion Wilkinson gives us in this book a marvelous epic, that of Texas. Real historical characters are all around us in this book, though it is centered on one Remy Fuqua who is fictional and leads us across all racial, social and ethnic groups of this country, or rather this nation. French, Irish, Scottish, Mexican, true Anglo-saxon and American and of course essentially the Comanches but also a couple other Indian tribes. It also leads us right into the heart of a neverending conflict between the Tejanos of Mexican ascent and the Texians of American ascent. Texas appears like an essential pawn on the North and Central American chessboard that has to be conquered if anyone wants to control the whole continent.<br />Yet history and fate have decided that things were not supposed to be simple, and were supposed to be the result of the compelling movement of the Americans to the West, and of a sheer superiority in numbers and violence, enhanced on the American side by technological inventions like the revolver. Thus there is no way to resist against the arrival and the mentality of the Anglos, the American newcomers.<br />The book is dominated by several unsolvable dual conflicts. First, that between the first Anglos and the Mexicans. Remy will trespass the limit and that will not be simple. It will remain conflictual till the end of his and his falmily's sojourn in Texas. Then the divide between the Tejanos and Texians as opposed to the Comanches. A perpetual war for conquest or survival, according to the side, that will never end but with the death of the mythic chief Kills White Bear. This duality will be embedded in the book twice : Remy and Beatriz's son will be stolen by Kills White Bear and raised as a Comanche under the name of White Eagle . Note this constant element on the side of this Comanche chief and his adopted son : their animal spirits are albino in both cases, as if the Whites were an absession, a fatality, an unescapable doom. Then this duality is embedded a second time by the impregnation of Beatriz by Kills White Bear when she is his captive. And the second son who will be born from this forced union will become a second son for Remy, a substitute for his lost son. But the book goes a lot farther than that by finding a third level where to use this duality. The end of the novel is the bloody and poignant confrontation of the two sons and brothers. The final bullet is so dramatic that I cannot tell you who will shoot whom. It would destroy too much of the suspense. And yet it is a beautiful ending, even if Beatriz will never know about it. Only one son will survive.<br />We must make an important remark. This book is brutally, ruthlessly and superbly realistic. The author gives the real details of the barbarity of all sides, be it the Mexicans, be it the Comanches or be it the Texians. They are all barbarians, even if at times in different ways, that is to say with different gods and beliefs. Some will say that the picture of the Comanches is biassed. Some will say the same about the Mexicans. But just the same some will be able to make the very same remark about the Texians. Texas will be born a nation through a difficult delivery that will imply a deadly war that will have to eliminate the losing sides. The side that will be eliminated completely is the Comanches. But the others, even the winning Texians, will not be spared quite a lot of blood. Thus the book seems to be balanced.<br />The last remark will be about the psychology of the characters. It is detailed, very precise and rich. It mixes all levels of a man's or woman's personality : his or her culture, his or her past, his or her future, his or her feelings and reactions to events, his or her dreams and visions. What emerges at the end of this long novel is a fantastic and even magical picture of Texas and its natural setting with all its animals, including human animals, if not at times beasts.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities IIand IXII and IX	2001-06-05
US	50989966	R1GTXLYJPS139G	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Outstanding science fiction	The book is based on the extreme hypothesis that America could become a fascistic country, with three zones and social groups : the rich and happy business downtown area, the poor, famished and under- or unemployed working class derelict area, and the camps for the opponents who are authorized to survive and not be executed. Television is the absolute tool to dominate and control the people by providing them with old circus games like in Roman times. The main game is The Running Man, where a man is supposed to resist some super-duper-monstrous state-fighters who use all kinds of technology against empty-handed men. The book releases the designated fighters (ex-convincts who dream of a chance) directly in the second zone of society where they have to survive. The whole game changes when the cop who refused to kill innocent people in Bakersville is brought into the picture. He will manage to help the resistance, so that the truth will be broadcast on television, and he will capture a plane and destroy the whole television building, including the main master of ceremonies. But there is no hope, because the « hero » dies in his plane that crashes against the building, and the resistance does not stand one chance against the police and the army of the state. This book is signed Richard Bachman, and it is absolute pessimistic science-fiction. There is no future, there is no hope, there is no anything you want. We are living in a bleak dead alley that has no way out. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-03
US	50989966	R2KJ90XG5HWZDE	0738830658	343343222	The Crowning Circle	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Thrilling and chilling psychic depth	Ms Lankford has written here an extraordinary book. It so rich that it is also difficult to give a very short review of all the qualities of the novel.<br />It is a thriller about a serial killer. She definitely tries to follow the profiling of such killers by the FBI at Quantico. And this is perfectly well done, because all the crimes of this serial killer went unperceived for six years, and that is an essential element with these killers : they want to remain anonymous, to remain in the wings, unseen as long as possible, and thus free to go on with their activities. There is only one element I find a little bit far-fetched : the rejection of the killer by his parents when a child. It does not really fit the picture, even if a super-intellectual-wizard may frighten... workers, the most astonishing part of it  being the rejection by the mother whose role... is unexplained.<br />It is also a highly technical book and the use of high-tech is not a gadget. It is not justified by itself only. It is essential to the dramatic construction of the novel. It even blocks the discovery of the killer for a while, due to the fact that the data base built by Jake does not contain the unifying element that leads to the killer. That is a short coming of such a data base : the analyzing elements are set by the operator and in the case of a serial killer, the unifying motivation is never clearly visible, because it comes from the deepest layers of his psyche and is well hidden from sight. Thus Ms Lankford shows the limits of technology.<br />It is also a book of passion. Two couples are the center of the investigation and Ms Lankford marvellously explores the motivations and limitations of the love between the two males and the two females of that quartet, as well as the friendship between the two males. This is done with a lot of feeling and even modesty. For instance the main character, the Black forensic psychologist, has very deep blocking elements in his past and it explains his resistance at stepping over them and revealing them to the woman he loves, and this level of teh book is very persuasive and consistent.<br />The final confrontation of the killer with this very character is a remake of the film Seven but with such a level of creativity and psychological depth that Seven looks like a caricature of the book that came afterwards though. But after all the son is father to the father.<br />I particularly love the denunciation of the limitations of the police who cannot accept that someone from the outside, someone who is not a pure and clear-cut cop may, can and even has to see things better than them because the outsider is looking from outside pre-configured behaviors and thinking models. Any institution will react against innovation because it disrupts their everyday routine, especially at two levels : the closedness of the institution (that will never like the wind coming from outside), and the thinking humdrum procedures that do not accept any variations from the standard patterns. An institution tends to be conservative and exclusive, if not jingoistic, if we can use such a word for such a situation. I also love the denunciation of rotten media, in this case the rotten TV station known as Channel 3. It centers on an unethical journalist who practices pay-offs, blackmail and menaces....<br />I also love the great intricacy with with Ms Lankford mixes the Vietnam war in the psyche of the main characters. It is done with subtlety, a great level of human understanding, an immense depth in the exploration of human suffering. This leads her to a multicultural approach of situations and personal behavior, and that also is admirable because it finally makes this novel a real american novel that does not exclude some ethnic groups from the social life that the US have to build if they want to survive as a beacon for the world, a beacon of democracy, culture, humanism and all other positive values.<br />A book that you have to read if youdo not want to remain behind the times.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.ou do not want to remain behind the times.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-02
US	50989966	R2CDXKB6VMKYES	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Teenage is a cruel age	It is one of the earliest books by Stephen King. Each section has a different point of view, which enables the book to explore the psychology of three teenagers and the conflicts between them, as well as their love or friendship. Arnold is the main hero. He is a senior in high-school and his family is dominated by a tyrant mother. So he tries and wants to escape from this stifling tyranny. His tool is to fall in love with an old car called Christine. This car is haunted by its first owner and it has special powers that it uses to protect its owner who has to be in love with it, an exclusive type of love. This gives Arnold the power to resist his family, particularly his mother, and also to resist, and even get revenge from, the bullies who try to victimize him, and later trash his car. The car will be the tool of that vengeance, even if, in the book, it is not clear at all if Arnold knows about it or not. Every single time the car kills someone, Arnold is somewhere else in someone else's car. The second hero is Arnold's friend Dennis who is definitely his best friend, but also his best challenger as for love. He is a member of the football team and he will desire, silently it's true at first, the girl Arnold will fall in love with. The girl, Leigh, is jealous of the car and the car tries to get rid of her. So she tries to save Arnold from the car with Dennis's help. The two of them will destroy the car with a bulldozer, a yellow kakasucher as it is called by Stephen King. They will succeed and Arnold will have a different fate in his own mother's car that will be made crazy by the living dead that was haunting Christine. This book is an exploration of teenagers in their high-school days' psyche. It is not particularly nice with teenagers, though the tyrannical control society tries to impose onto them is shown as the cause of all rebellions and rebellious or unethical feelings or actions. The book is pulsating with old rock and roll songs that open each chapter. It is a real exploration of those old songs, particularly those that deal with cars. It of course shows the mythical being a car can become in the American society, particularly for teenagers for whom it represents power and growth, adulthood independence. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.is a real exploration of those old songs, particularly those that deal with cars. It of course shows the mythical being a car can become in the American society, particularly for teenagers for whom it represents power and growth, adulthood independence. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-02
US	50989966	R14VFBLEGFHX0W	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A perfect suspended beginning of a long series	This is the first volume of the Dark Tower series. The main hero, the gunslinger, is nearly dead on a beach, attacked by some monster crabs or lobsters, dying of some kind of fever in a world that is under our own world. This gunslinger has to cross a door somewhere to be able to find, in our world, the drugs that will save him, but also to have the idea of building the team he will need to go to that Dark Tower that should represent the resurrection of his world, the epiphany of our world. So it is the beginning of the trip across some vast country toward this tower, with some crossings into our world to get the antibiotic he needs and to discover the people he will need on his trip. This underworld is not explained, except that it lies under our world. We don't know why the hero is in the situation he is in at the beginning of the novel. We don't really know why he has that strange mission to go to the Dark Tower, to save his world. We do not know who he is and what he was in that apparently ruined world. This first volume just builds up the character and is an excellent appetizer that will make us feel famished for the next volumes. We must note we find the same pattern in The Talisman by Stephen King and Peter Straub, a pattern that was to be found too in The Eyes of the Dragon : a ruined world lies under our own world and our own world's survival depends on the saving of this underlying world. We can also compare this book with IT and some other books, where the underworld is the haunt and home of some monster that lives upon our world by vampiristically drawing its food or vital energy from our world. This duality of Stephen King's imaginary world is fundamental in his fiction. The point is that in the present book, this underlying world is not really feeding on our world, though what happens in it is both caused by what happens in ours and determines what will happen in ours. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, paris Universities II and IX.	2001-06-02
US	50989966	RYGFSLCRELQ6W	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	5	1	9	N	N	Careful, the trapped ETs are there to suck on you	This book is one of the most interesting books by Stephen King. It is heavy with meaning and many themes are present.  The first theme, which in fact is not the main one in the story, is that of the drunk poet and the western novel female writer. The story hence revolves around two writers. The poet is the one who is different, unable to be integrated in his society and to follow its evolution. He has had an accident and he has a metal plate in his head. This metal plate gives him the capability to stand apart, to remain aloof, to keep out of the main stream, and that is why he is a poet, because he can see things and events from a different position. His problem is then that he cannot really live up to this aloofness and he has the tendency to drink too much to negociate his difference. He is an alcoholic. But the events in the book enable him to test his will power and requires him to reject his desire and inclination : he has to reject his alcoholism, perfectly well shown at the beginning, to remain in touch with his project that has to do with the rejection and destruction of the menace that hangs over the heads of his fellow-citizens, and thus to save them, or to save  his society. He is able to regenerate himself but that leads to only one thing : his death, a heroic death since he is able to destroy the menace that has taken possession of his town. He is a-social, never able to refrain from doing what he is expected not to do, particularly to denounce those who exploit society, even if it means danger for him, and even if he needs the protection of alcohol to find the courage to do it. He is the moral voice of our society, but the restraint society applies on him zips up his mouth, silences his voice. He is called Gardner, the one who cultivates the private garden of his society. Then the book shows an array of women and their attitudes toward their male-dominated society. First of all, the « sheriff » of the city is a woman and she gives her job a more humane dimension. She thinks of children first and tries to enable them to understand the protective role of the police. She is more protective than repressive, and this is good because that is what the police should be. The western novelist is adventurous because she cannot live the time of the frontier she writes about, and her adventurousness will find its field of application in the discovery and excavating of the alien spacecraft. She will trigger the invasion of the community by these aliens, not so much dead but hibernating and waiting for their chance to capture the vital energy of the humans to regenerate their own vitality. They are like vampires who finally, through the intermission of this western novelist, find their revitalizing victims. She is also the lover of the poet and brings him the equilibrium he needs. But she is the discoverer of the wild forest, she is the adventurer who opens new vistas to her community and who brings danger into it. The poet will be in his turn her balancing element because he will trigger her into regeneration, enabling him and her to break the yoke and the dependance weighing on their community. The private gardener and the wild frontier discoverer are like the two sides of one coin and the two trends of any society : danger of wild discoveries and balance of inner imagination. The third woman is the deputy sheriff, the wife who is betrayed by her postal worker of a husband. She is the passionate and possessive lover who will prefer becoming totally crazy and insane by following the vengeance brought to her by the aliens rather than any sane call that would mean a divorce from a dominating husband that we also can imagine slightly brutal at least psychologically. She is the standard middle of the way wife who keeps their dominating men in the right path. They prefer being dominated by faithnful husbands to recapturing their freedom from a betraying husband. So her natural call will be to kill, though she is a deputy sheriff, rather than accepting to live in independance, hence in total responsibility because it also means loneliness, at least sexually, though not socially. She is a useful lady in the community but she cannot live in sanity if she is not under the domination of a man. The next woman in the book is the sex-appealed and preying manta of a socialized husband-thief. She cannot know love as a feeling, but only love as a theft, hence her loving power is only a lusting impulse for married men who are all the more lustful and attractive  because they are married. She is a thief at heart and she kind of understands her mission as the big revenge of women against men for centuries of enslavement. She can only be destructive towards her « men conquests ». She can only use and destroy the men she lusts for. She is the perfect prey-« bird » in our society.  Then King ponders upon scientific and technological inventiveness. It comes from the aliens. It is the little change they give those victims to lure them into accepting to become their vegetative energy bank. So they start inventing things that transform, that would transform, everyday life into a real haven on earth, but due to the direction imposed by the aliens it transforms life into a daily hell of absolute totalitarianism in the community, an attitude that leads them to become totally autarcic and to eliminate all those who do not accept this yoke. There is here some kind of fear on the side of Stephen King in front of science and technology. Life is simple as long as it remains what it has always been. It is simple as long as it progresses slowly. Any fast revolution is alien to human society and dangerous for human society. It is a reflexion of the present all-comprising technological and scientific revolution the world is living. Any small town community rejects that at first sight because it disrupts their life, and here it leads to collective totalitarianism and suicide. In a way Stephen King is an anti-science-fiction writer who refuses to consider aliens as a chance and progress as a positive gamble. He is in the line of many other thinkers and writers in the field : he sets from the very start that those aliens are dangerous and have to be destroyed. I understand he would say it is the attitude of any small town community, but he never gives another vision, or nearly never. So it has to represent one of his deepest fears. There are strange connections appearing here, like the similarity of attitude and ideology with that we find in Ron Hubbard's science-fiction (« Battle Earth » for example). It is the same attitude we find in the « Alien » film series. It is the same vision we find in the « Predator » film series, particularly in the second film. And we could multiply the examples. That is the complete opposite of Frank Herbert's approach in his « Dune » series, or Jules Verne's approach in all his novels. Finally we must question the Christian approach of the book. Gardner, the poet, will have to sacrifice himself to save humanity. He is the perfect Christ, but a modern Christ. He is a poet, he is a socially marginal character even if he is the conscience of this society. He has to sacrifice himself like Christ, leaving behind tears in the eyes of his lover (though there is no mother, holy and virgin, in the background). He will have to face the hatred of the crowd who wants to crucify him, to get him out of the way, and he will have to trick them all into crucifying himself to save them. There is no reasoning with a mad crowd. There is only using their madness to achieve the destruction of the evil forces and to regenerate the crowd against its or their own will.  Another aspect is essential : the use of children dogs and senior citizens. The first captured victim is a child. The second is a dog and one of the later victims is a grandfather. It is the conjunction if these three unsocial, antisocial or a-social forces that will bring the danger down. The children are adventurous (becoming the gate openers and the first victims), on the incitation of the grandfather, and it is their escape, though only coming through Gardner, that triggers the final destruction of the danger. It is the stubborn resistance of the grandfather that leads to the discovery by Gardner of the true nature of the danger, and this grandfather will save the western novelist, after her liberation, from the criminal hands of the man-stealing woman who will come to kill that woman who now stands between them, the community, and the aliens. She will come with an axe, the perfect castrating tool, the perfect representation of male chauvinistic alienation and enslavement of women (see « The Shining » for instance), but here brandished by a woman, meaning that any woman who becomes a male chauvinistic pig in a female body can only lead, if she is free to act, society to its ruin. The dog is also essential because it is the guardian of humanity, though it is also the natural victim of men. It is able to become the tool of the aliens in the name of its love for its master or mistress. He is killing them all, master and mistress included, out of its own love for them (this idea is present in « The Green Mwriter who refuses to consider aliens as a chance and progress as a positive gamble. He is in the line of many other thinkers and writers in the field : he sets from the very start that those aliens are dangerous and have to be destroyed. I understand he would say it is the attitude of any small town community, but he never gives another vision, or nearly never. So it has to represent one of his deepest fears. There are strange connections appearing here, like the similarity of attitude and ideology with that we find in Ron Hubbard's science-fiction ( Battle Earth  for example). It is the same attitude we find in the  Alien  film series. It is the same vision we find in the  Predator  film series, particularly in the second film. And we could multiply the examples. That is the complete opposite of Frank Herbert's approach in his  Dune  series, or Jules Verne's approach in all his novels. Finally we must question the Christian approach of the book. Gardner, the poet, will have to sacrifice himself to save humanity. He is the perfect Christ, but a modern Christ. He is a poet, he is a socially marginal character even if he is the conscience of this society. He has to sacrifice himself like Christ, leaving behind tears in the eyes of his lover (though there is no mother, holy and virgin, in the background). He will have to face the hatred of the crowd who wants to crucify him, to get him out of the way, and he will have to trick them all into crucifying himself to save them. There is no reasoning with a mad crowd. There is only using their madness to achieve the destruction of the evil forces and to regenerate the crowd against its or their own will.  Another aspect is essential : the use of children dogs and senior citizens. The first captured victim is a child. The second is a dog and one of the later victims is a grandfather. It is the conjunction if these three unsocial, antisocial or a-social forces that will bring the danger down. The children are adventurous (becoming the gate openers and the first victims), on the incitation of the grandfather, and it is their escape, though only coming through Gardner, that triggers the final destruction of the danger. It is the stubborn resistance of the grandfather that leads to the discovery by Gardner of the true nature of the danger, and this grandfather will save the western novelist, after her liberation, from the criminal hands of the man-stealing woman who will come to kill that woman who now stands between them, the community, and the aliens. She will come with an axe, the perfect castrating tool, the perfect representation of male chauvinistic alienation and enslavement of women (see  The Shining  for instance), but here brandished by a woman, meaning that any woman who becomes a male chauvinistic pig in a female body can only lead, if she is free to act, society to its ruin. The dog is also essential because it is the guardian of humanity, though it is also the natural victim of men. It is able to become the tool of the aliens in the name of its love for its master or mistress. He is killing them all, master and mistress included, out of its own love for them (this idea is present in  The Green M	2001-05-26
US	50989966	R16NW72Q98W4ZQ	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Fascism is always lurking behind the wings	The hero, John Smith, due to an accident in his youth, is endowed with a special visionary power when he touches someone, a power that was activated by a car accident in his early twenties that caused a long coma of five years.  When he comes out of his coma he discovers his power with a nurse. He helps her infant-daughter to be saved from a blaze at her home when the child is alone while her mother is working. This power reveals the present.  But then the power his enlarged with the doctor, Dr Weizak, a Polish Jew who survived the assault of Hitler on Poland in 1939. The doctor thinks his mother is dead. But the vision reveals she is alive, living in the US, married under another name. The doctor will call her but will not talk to her, because « it was not meant to be ». This power thus reveals the past and the present.  This historical event and the beginning of the Shoah, at least for the Polish Jews, is essential in the dramatic construction of the book.  In another case, John Smith will be able to reveal the future, and hence influence the present to change it, and along with the present to change the foreseen future. A young boy he is tutoring in English would die in an ice-hockey event. The boy is advised not to go and he doesn't go, though his father is sponsoring this event. The father does not cancel the event. The accident on the ice takes place , but the boy is safe. So John Smith can change the outcome of an event, hence the future, quite naturally by having an influence on the decisions of the protagonists in the present. This sounds like Back to the Future, but it is not the same thing because in another novel, The Langoliers, in Four Past Midnight (New American Library, New York, 1990), Stephen King shows his vision of time : there is no past because everything is eaten up by the langoliers and there is no future because the future is just the waiting for the coming present. Hence the past is death and the future is the promise of life, but life is nothing but the present. So the past is memory and the future is imagination. You cannot travel in time.  But the real core of the book is his meeting with a candidate to the Senate. It appears, in the subsequent vision when John Smith shakes his hand, that he will be President of the United States and will start the final atomic holocaust, the total human Shoah, out of pure craziness, pride and egocentric selfishness.  Then John Smith asks for advice from Dr Weizak and the question is : « If, knowing what you know now, you, could go back to 1933, would you kill Hitler ? » The answer is, without any hesitation : « Yes I will kill the son of a bitch. » on the ground of his medical mission to protect and save human lives.  Then John Smith prepares the killing of that politician. He will not succeed and he will be killed by the bodyguard. But the politician will reveal himself as a coward by protecting his life with a baby used as a human shield. The picture of this stance published on the cover of Newsweek will destroy his political future and he will shoot himself. This last means to achieve such a goal (the destroying of the politician), the use of the press is common in Stephen King's novels. Let's quote : Firestarter (The Rolling Stone magazine), The Stand (a local TV station that is captured by US military forces), The Running Man (a TV game show that turns sour for the organizers in a clearly science-fiction book), etc.  But, in The Dead Zone, the Shoah is used as the dramatic turning point in the novel, justifying the right for a citizen to kill a dangerous politician when he knows the latter shall jeopardize the whole of humanity in the future.othing but the present. So the past is memory and the future is imagination. You cannot travel in time.  But the real core of the book is his meeting with a candidate to the Senate. It appears, in the subsequent vision when John Smith shakes his hand, that he will be President of the United States and will start the final atomic holocaust, the total human Shoah, out of pure craziness, pride and egocentric selfishness.  Then John Smith asks for advice from Dr Weizak and the question is :  If, knowing what you know now, you, could go back to 1933, would you kill Hitler ?  The answer is, without any hesitation :  Yes I will kill the son of a bitch.  on the ground of his medical mission to protect and save human lives.  Then John Smith prepares the killing of that politician. He will not succeed and he will be killed by the bodyguard. But the politician will reveal himself as a coward by protecting his life with a baby used as a human shield. The picture of this stance published on the cover of Newsweek will destroy his political future and he will shoot himself. This last means to achieve such a goal (the destroying of the politician), the use of the press is common in Stephen King's novels. Let's quote : Firestarter (The Rolling Stone magazine), The Stand (a local TV station that is captured by US military forces), The Running Man (a TV game show that turns sour for the organizers in a clearly science-fiction book), etc.  But, in The Dead Zone, the Shoah is used as the dramatic turning point in the novel, justifying the right for a citizen to kill a dangerous politician when he knows the latter shall jeopardize the whole of humanity in the future.	2001-05-26
US	50989966	RBXF3KNIEI3R5	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	No future without a full knowledge of your roots	Amy Tan is a very fine writer of Asian ascent. She is able to capture both women's psychology and Chinese culture and heritage in such details and nuances that it is a real pleasure to enter her world. This book concentrates on the relationship between an Asian-American daughter and her mother of pure Chinese ascent who immigrated after the Second World War. The mother is caught up in her old age by Alzheimer's and she is the victim of dementia. But bafore starting to lose her memory she committed to paper a story of her life in China. The daughter is intrigued by her mother's dementia that goes back to the past over and over again and she tries to find out what went wrong in those days that would explain the present situation. And when she finds her mother's pages, she finally can relate what she had lived in her youth with a tyranical and often frustrating mother and what her mother had lived in her early years in China. And little by little she discovers the great mystery of her grand mother and her dramatic fate.<br />This first line of inquiry is doubled with the relation of the heroin with her manfriend and how their relation can evolve into a real permanent relation, after ten years of permanent non-permanence. The mother is the catalyzer of this evolution. And the mother finds some kind of happiness in this old age by being moved to a special assisted living institution, with her full agreement, though she is lured into the first three months' experience of it, and in finding some manfriend in the man who translated the pages she had left behind for her daughter.<br />The very strong point of this novel is the entertwining of two cultures and especially the great importance of the Chinese heritage in the psyche of the mother, but also of the daughter due to the education she got from her mother. And this all comes to the search for the mystery grandmother and the ambiguity of the name she has been given over decades and decades of life in China, and in finding the real name of that grandmother. This is a really muticultural book because of this blend of cultures, influences, psychologies in the various characters and particularly in the daughter, a second generation Asian-American, who cannot really find her balance in American society if she does not totally assume the heritage of the mother's past that was transmitted to her indirectly through common life with her in her childhood and youth years. There is no balance of an individual if he or she does not assume the past and the roots of her blood line.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.ng the real name of that grandmother. This is a really muticultural book because of this blend of cultures, influences, psychologies in the various characters and particularly in the daughter, a second generation Asian-American, who cannot really find her balance in American society if she does not totally assume the heritage of the mother's past that was transmitted to her indirectly through common life with her in her childhood and youth years. There is no balance of an individual if he or she does not assume the past and the roots of her blood line.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-05-26
US	50989966	R17BZ79MZNKWWP	0671046160	815342548	Blood And Smoke	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Paranormal but humorous	Stephen King has been experimenting some new forms of communication for a while, and his attempt at giving short stories on CDs is quite a promising success. First his voice is agreeable and hoarse enough to give density to stories that need heavily-packed language. We could regret that some voice effects are too bland, but that is a choice and it is acceptable if we consider the object of these recordings is to make people use their imagination and not only to manipulate their hearing to plunge them into a pre-constructed audio world. We have to represent the referential world of the stories in our mind&#8217;s eye. First , Lunch at the Gotham Caf&eacute; is a thriller and it is absolutely exciting. Every moment of it is more dramatic than the previous one, exploring the mind of a man suddenly turned crazy and murderous, and also exploring the mind of the main character, Steve, trying to cope with the craziness of the havoc the maître d&#8217; is creating, as well as exploring the vicious mind of Steve&#8217;s wife, soon to be ex-wife, who is getting just as lunatic as the maître d&#8217; and becoming unable to see that she was saved by Steve and even quite able to try to make him fail in his attempt, to get some vengeance of hers, not realizing that she would kill herself in the same move. Blood all right, but Stephen King shows that under any stress at all, the real reaction of a smoker is to quit and then his vision is demultiplied into a nightmare that can any time come true. And it sure does here. Second, 1408 is the only story of the set that contains an element of supernatural dimension : one room of one hotel in New York is inhabited by some unhuman being, or is it really a being of any kind ? Yet it is carnivorous and you can only escape it by killing yourself or using the only thing it is afraid of : fire. And there is the smoke of a book of matches used to light up, not a cigarette but a victim, so that the being lets the victim go because it does not like roasted meat. Yet He will not escape the trap really and he will go away with some unhealthy souvenirs who will eventually bring him down to an early death in suffering. But keep some matches at hand all the time. It is the safest way to escape one of those haunting « beings » that live in the walls of our urban buildings. Third, In the Deathroom is another thriller, a realistic story about some kind of anti-communist dictatorship in some kind of Central American big-brother-state. There, tobacco is the means to escape, the tool to fake your way out of the torture room, the death room, the death row of the Ministry of Information of that hellish paradise for Hitler&#8217;s babies and apprentices. The point is that tobacco will never become a new habit for such an escapee from Tortureland. It will become some pilgrimage of a vague one-minute instant on forty-third street, just to pay homage to the tool that triggered out the forage to freedom of our hero.  A brilliant set, a set of stories gleaming with power, suspense, surprise, horror, and, above all, realism. Stephen King is not speaking of any out-of-the-world fantasy, but of our everyday life of divorce, lunacy, crime, nightmares, fears, torture and dictatorship. Please get down to it and jump into that phenomenal trip.ted meat. Yet He will not escape the trap really and he will go away with some unhealthy souvenirs who will eventually bring him down to an early death in suffering. But keep some matches at hand all the time. It is the safest way to escape one of those haunting  beings  that live in the walls of our urban buildings. Third, In the Deathroom is another thriller, a realistic story about some kind of anti-communist dictatorship in some kind of Central American big-brother-state. There, tobacco is the means to escape, the tool to fake your way out of the torture room, the death room, the death row of the Ministry of Information of that hellish paradise for Hitler&#8217;s babies and apprentices. The point is that tobacco will never become a new habit for such an escapee from Tortureland. It will become some pilgrimage of a vague one-minute instant on forty-third street, just to pay homage to the tool that triggered out the forage to freedom of our hero.  A brilliant set, a set of stories gleaming with power, suspense, surprise, horror, and, above all, realism. Stephen King is not speaking of any out-of-the-world fantasy, but of our everyday life of divorce, lunacy, crime, nightmares, fears, torture and dictatorship. Please get down to it and jump into that phenomenal trip.	2001-05-23
US	50989966	RO2YL89HOGCEA	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	5	8	N	N	His glasses are special but invigorating	Howard Zinn is a great historian, not because he knows thousands of facts that we are never told about various social, ethnic, cultural or political movements in  the United States, or even before the Revolution, but because he constantly asks questions about why and how this or that decision was taken, this or that event took place. He is not satisfied by the Declaration of Independance or the Constitution of the United States. He asks the question of the meaning of it at the time, and for him the meaning is : Who was it done by ? Who was it done for ? Who was it done without ? Who was it done against ? Who was rejected by it ? Whos was alienated by it ? etc. And the  various amendments prove his point : children of both sexes, women, blacks of both sexes and Indians of both sexes were explicitly excluded from the benefits of the constitution at the origin. And the debates before, during and after the writing and voting of the constitution prove his point too, with many explaining their point of view that a representative government is more effective to contain any kind of social or political protest movement than any other form of government, though I am convinced they were wrong : the English Monarchy becalme really representative only lately, and Monstesquieu has proved to the whole world that democracy is an unavoidable and irreversible movement and aim. Where I find him at times too schematic is his constant reference to the concept of class. He has some difficulty getting over that concept and higher than that concept that cannot explain everything. He has problems understanding that the real motivation of any protest movement of any kind is to be found in the alienation the protesters experience, be it social, political, sexual, cultural, ethnic, age-related, or of any other possible nature. Then the question is to ask how such alienations produce protest movements and how such multivaried alienations and ensuing protest movements can come together. But when they do, they can be very effective in blocking a certain way the system works, like in Seattle in the Fall 1999. This question is not answered by Zinn, and his too strong an emphasis put on the concept of class prevents him from being able to even ask the question. Nevertheless the book is essential because it gathers so much unknown data about so many historical events. It is a great help for students to widen their quests and for teachers and professors to enrich their practices. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II &amp; IX.they do, they can be very effective in blocking a certain way the system works, like in Seattle in the Fall 1999. This question is not answered by Zinn, and his too strong an emphasis put on the concept of class prevents him from being able to even ask the question. Nevertheless the book is essential because it gathers so much unknown data about so many historical events. It is a great help for students to widen their quests and for teachers and professors to enrich their practices. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II &amp; IX.	2001-05-20
US	50989966	R271DKWSA5TZQO	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Learn that the future is unwritten.	The first novel ( Dune) was full of the contradictions surging from the meeting of several worlds, several philosophies and several ways of looking at the world. The Atreides are an old feudal people based on honor and self-inspired justice and righteousness. They have to free the planet of Dune of the fascistic, rotten, decaying, bloody and cruel dictatorship of the Harkonnen. They do it by sealing an alliance with the Fremen, the men of the desert. And doing that Paul, the heir of the family, creates a new religion, a new way of looking at the world, a new philosophy. In this second volume this philosophy finds its full realisation because Paul has to choose between two survivals. First he himself has to survive through death and he does it by willing to the world a pair of heirs who have all the prescient powers he had and all the rectitude the Fremen had given him. By doing that he manages to destroy the conspiration against his power and to provide his Empirium with a new generation of leaders. ...he is blind, he does not have any vision any more, so he has to give himself away to the sand worm in the desert and to become part of the whole planet, part of the whole universe. He steps into this track without any hesitation and becomes a roaming saint inspiring the whole Empirium with the philosophy of melding oneself into Nature, into natural ways, the ways of eternal Nature, this eternal Nature humans or other thinking beings can try to pervert but that always regains the upper hand. This is Fremen philosophy, and Herbert shows this choice in depth, with emotion and feeling, with passion and sensuality, with the force and strength of a new faith, the faith in the future that comes all by itself, provided there is a visionary mind that can deliver it to itself, deliver this future of Nature to Nature itself, that can  deliver Mother Nature to Mother Nature herself. And this delivering becomes a crisscrossing crossroads of meanings between giving life and birth, bringing the goods of the promise, and freeing the real energy and potentiality of Nature. Herbert adds to that a marvelous sense of details that demultiplies the meaning and creates a phenomenal suspense, a fascinating interweaving of twists and surprises in the fabric of this tale. ...bringing the goods of the promise, and freeing the real energy and potentiality of Nature. Herbert adds to that a marvelous sense of details that demultiplies the meaning and creates a phenomenal suspense, a fascinating interweaving of twists and surprises in the fabric of this tale. ...	2001-05-20
US	50989966	R13SNXHKP5EUO2	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	1	4	N	Y	The catcher next (sequel and end)	5- The military men who are in charge of the cleansing operation against the Extraterrestrials reveal themselves as brutes, beasts, led by a crazy man who has decided that his objective is to kill all the ETs, all the human beings who have been infected or who have witnessed the operation, including women and children, then all the soldiers who have taken part in the operation, except maybe some of his elite tropps, when it is not only himself. Many references are done to other operations of the type : Haiti, Bosnia, Croatia, Irak, etc. This is a strong criticism of the US armed forces and of their objectives. How can such bodies of people have wandered away from any ethical values ? And even the only one who is going to be instrumental in the final epiphanic chase, does it only because of an old and deep feeling of guilt coming back from his childhood. He is not « good », he is just trying to repair his old « badness ». This theme is of course common in Stephen King's books. It is the famous Shop. Or is the very starting point of The Stand (military experimentations on biological warfare) or in The Talisman (the nuclear research in Nevada). But here it is pushed to an extreme limit that is absolutely frightening. And is there any escape or redemption possible ?<br />6- The book is strongly anti-republican by the clear and repeated criticism of a certain narrowly elected President. He is rejected as an opportunist who never tells the truth but only manuipulates the masses. This is particularly disquieting. How can supreme power in the US lay in the hands of a man who is shown as a puppet, a dangerous puppet. This has some antecedent in The Dead Zone, but the antidote is never to be found in the present book : the antidote of the press, the free press, like in The Dead Zone or in Firestarter, to quote two books. In fact the rare visions of radio people given at one particular time in the book is that of irresponsible people totally dominated by the ambition to please their audiences even if it creates a panic. That is quite different from the vision we had at the beginning of The Stand, of an anchorwoman who dies in her studio, killed by military forces, but who goes on, till the end, giving what she thinks is the truth. In this book those irresponsible « radio-jockeys » are not even reprimended by anyone. They are free to be irresponsible. At this level the book regresses on many other books.<br />7- The influence of the cinema is extremely important in this book. It seems to be a rewriting, or a remake of many not films but genres of films : the science-fiction of the fifties and teh sixties with the systematic invading extraterrestrials, and the western films of Ennio Morricone or Clint Eastwood. Two characters are informed by such a deep knowledge of such films : one is one of our heroes, and the other is one military man who will end up very badly. These constant film references give to the book a very attractive value : we are introduced to a world of knowledge that enables those who know those films to get a new pleasure out of their knowledge and the book : the second level of reading that is thus introduced. This has commonly been used in Stephen King's books, though most of the time it was more references to pop music like in Christine for example. This strong emphasis on `pop'-cinema is new. But at times, and this is totally willed and desired, the narrow limit between film-fiction and reality is erased and some characters are directly taken out of such films and behave like the characters of these films.<br />To conclude, we have to say that Stephen King is entirely on one line : urban paranoia. He explained this concept in length in Danse Macabre. But here he puts it into action from beginning to end. This cuts the world into two halves : the good Americans and the bad ones (anything that is bad and cannot thus be American). And the aim of the good ones is to destroy the bad ones, and vice versa at times. Butthis is short of The Stand where the bad ones were destroyed thanks to a « christian » sacrifice of some good ones and thanks to the very destructive forces this sacrifice brought out among the bad ones. The destruction came from inside with the intercession of the « christian » martyrs. Here nothing of the type. Just plain conquest on the bad side, destruction on the bad side, and the answer to this destruction is also to destroy on the good side. But there is nothing Christian in this book. Bad versus Good and that is all, and to the finish. Of course Good succeeds. But why and how ? That is the book. You'll have to read  it if you want to discover the answer to this final question.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Parid Universities II and IX.t this is short of The Stand where the bad ones were destroyed thanks to a « christian » sacrifice of some good ones and thanks to the very destructive forces this sacrifice brought out among the bad ones. The destruction came from inside with the intercession of the « christian » martyrs. Here nothing of the type. Just plain conquest on the bad side, destruction on the bad side, and the answer to this destruction is also to destroy on the good side. But there is nothing Christian in this book. Bad versus Good and that is all, and to the finish. Of course Good succeeds. But why and how ? That is the book. You'll have to read  it if you want to discover the answer to this final question.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Parid Universities II and IX.	2001-05-03
US	50989966	R2DPQJUP3EPETQ	0441328008	580553453	Heretics of Dune	Books	5	5	13	N	N	Dune Forever (Sequel and end)	When the book comes to a close, the next and final stage is ready and the main proponents on the side of the Bene Gesserit are assembled : the Mother Superior Odrade, the impregnated Honored Matre, the ghola, Sheeana and the worm they have saved from the sterilisation of Rakis. <br />The conclusion that comes up from this book is that history is a treacherous « science » because it locks up the people in a vision that aims at reproducing and justifying existing power orders. Then history has to be re-examined and re-studied to be put in perspective, the perspective of a change of events. <br />The second conclusion is that the domination of people leads to doomed power, tyranny, no future. To really have a long-lasting influence on history and the world, you need to dominate, to manage the deepest dynamics of humanity, and those are genetic lines, religions, beliefs, faithfulness, trust, friendship and love. <br />The third conclusion is that there is deep distrust in these novels against technology for the sake of technology and power. The belief is that human values are a lot more better. <br />The fourth conclusion is that the real dynamic of humanity is survival, the survival of individuals, the survival of species, the survival of values, the survival of human feelings, the survival of beliefs and cultures, the survival of humanity because humanity is the only perspective the world, the universe has to develop and to be endowed with a long-term mission, a long-term project : the expanding universe itself can only exist if this wide vision of survival is totally accepted and assumed by any individual and by the whole community.  The fourth conclusion is that beliefs are stronger than any material force, especially those beliefs who concern the soul, the mind, the intelligence of men and women, their capacity to imagine and invest their imagination into the living organism that the universe is. <br />The fifth conclusion I will draw is that progress can only come from conflict, that the future can only be delivered through fights, revolutions and even wars : humanity cannot be but a divided and striving reality : the absence of fighting and eternal peace only lead to tyranny and the freezing of historical change, though history can never be stopped : there will always be the forces that will delibver the future and these forces will always be successful in spite of any set-back of even regression. Mental and imaginary powers are the only real powers in this universe.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-05-03
US	50989966	R1PVPY44OP0GFE	0441328008	580553453	Heretics of Dune	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The Heretics first (to be continued)	This fifth volume in the Dune sequence by Frank Herbert is essential to understand the whole sequence. It is also essential because the center used so far is slightly, even radically, shifted. Dune, Arrakis, now Rakis is no longer the center of this saga, but only the key to the last development of the novel, the keystone of the denouement which brings the total sterilisation of the planet.<br />The main change or shift is the fact that the novel is centered on The Bene Gesserit Sisterhood. They hold the energy necessary to the action. They are the only force able to bring together two newcomers. Sheeana, this girl who can speak to the worms, who can speak to the descendants of the Tyrant or God Emperor, Leto II. She obviously holds in her the essential genetic elements that can bring the total regeneration of this universe, because this universe is totally rotten, even worse than the Kingdom of Denmark. This girl enables the religious system on Rakis to shift from the Priesthood, the heirs of the God Emperor, of the now Divided God, to the necessary recuperation of the Worm, of the God Emperor's teaching and its radical renewing by a deep rejuvenation and questioning, based on the popular faith that has never died in spite of all pressures. A new perspective is supposed to come out of this re-evaluation.<br />But a new female order appears in the picture, a conquering order of Honored Matres who want to enslave the whole world. Their method and tool is sex. They have devised a new sexual technique that makes men subservient and totally dependent. They conquer total power by giving the illusion to their direct slaves that they do take part in this power, though these slaves have to betray all human feelings, all faithfulness, all legitimacy in their thinking and living in order to have a position that controls - which is a total illusion - a little sector of society. They are nothing but tools used by these Honored Matres to conquer and control the world, to reduce 99.99% of the population to, the simple status of « scum ».<br />This novel hence is heavily centered on two women's orders. The Bene Gesserit who uses accumulated knowledge and constant reevaluation of this knowledge to understand history, to understand the real perspective of the real world, hence to step beyond the limits of the history of historians who only rewrite the past to fit the projects of the men in power, of the tyrants in power. We may note that this order is yet based on a minority that controls the world, though this minority is trying to guide the world into a higher level of consciousness, of awareness. For them sex is nothing but a tool to achieve some genetic goals : the selection of exceptional people who will be able to concentrate in them the qualities and the mental powers of the best blood lines ever produced by humanity, one being that of the Atreides. On the other side The Honored Matres do not aim at entrusting the world to the best men and women ever existing, but only to control, manipulate and destroy, to enslave in one word, and for them sexuality is the tool of that enslavement.<br />This novel shows how the fight between those two orders is doomed in the short run because their is no weapon or protection against this sexual power of the Honored Matres. Yet, the Mother Superior of the Bene Gesserit is trying to bring together the elements that are going to produce their final success. Those tools are Sheeana, since she has direct contact with the worm. Then a new ghola of Idaho Duncan (a real obsession in this sequence of novels that is finally broken, because the present ghola is to be the last one) produced by the Bene Tleilax (but the Tleilaxu are fiends and they have implanted in this ghola the order to kill the Bene Gesserit Imprinter who will reawaken his sexual desire, as well as the total sexual power that the Honored Matres have produced, and this fiendish as well as thoughtless act will give the Bene Gesserit the power to explore this special weapon used by the Honored Matres, because the ghola is imprinted by an Honored Matres who becomes the total slave of the ghola since he has a power that is equal at least to hers and she does not know how to cope, and because the ghola impregnates her and the child that will be a good study specimen). Then Teg Miles, the supreme Bashar of the Bene Gesserit, who is transformed in his mental and physical powers by the attempt of the Honored Matres to prenetrate his psyche, his body awareness to know the plans of the Bene Gesserit, and that attempt is a mistake (Teg is able to organize a rebellion that saves the ghola, himself and a few other faithful fighters, and Teg is able to bring the ghola to Rakis and to know where exactly the worm who is carrying Sheeana and Odrade is intended to come to deliver them to him and the no-ship he has captured). Note Teg will have to sacrifice himself and his faithful followers for this no-ship to go.<br />The most interesting element is the constant negociation between the Bene Gesserit and the Bene Tleilax, and the final defeat of the Bene Tleilax, because the Bene Gesserit is able to use the Bene Tleilax's religious beliefs to lure them.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.er to explore this special weapon used by the Honored Matres, because the ghola is imprinted by an Honored Matres who becomes the total slave of the ghola since he has a power that is equal at least to hers and she does not know how to cope, and because the ghola impregnates her and the child that will be a good study specimen). Then Teg Miles, the supreme Bashar of the Bene Gesserit, who is transformed in his mental and physical powers by the attempt of the Honored Matres to prenetrate his psyche, his body awareness to know the plans of the Bene Gesserit, and that attempt is a mistake (Teg is able to organize a rebellion that saves the ghola, himself and a few other faithful fighters, and Teg is able to bring the ghola to Rakis and to know where exactly the worm who is carrying Sheeana and Odrade is intended to come to deliver them to him and the no-ship he has captured). Note Teg will have to sacrifice himself and his faithful followers for this no-ship to go. <br />The most interesting element is the constant negociation between the Bene Gesserit and the Bene Tleilax, and the final defeat of the Bene Tleilax, because the Bene Gesserit is able to use the Bene Tleilax's religious beliefs to lure them.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-05-03
US	50989966	R2UEKCLR2GN0JM	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Schizophrenia as salvation	John Kennedy Toole committed a crime against seriousness. His novel is hilarious, though, I think it becomes less hilarious with time because our society is evolving in the direction he showed as being an extreme margin. It is the story of Ignatius Jacques Reilly, an educated scholar who is completely out of joint and out of work in a society that does not want to recognize his value. He is divided between a terroristic mother and an anarchistic girl friend. And we are in New Orleans. There is no room in our society for those marginal intellectuals who see the world as a big boiling pot of normalization, and yet this world is divided in all kinds of pleasure groups. He is revulsed by those pleasures, so he is homophobic, he is misogynistic, he is anti-anything that may appear under the sun and that does not recognize him as a genius. His mother forces him into the working world and every attempt at doing something financially profitable will turn sour because he will only be guided by his desire to transform the world, to make it what he wants it to be. He is neurotic, for sure, but also psychotic but a strange psychosis that makes him commit a constant and repetitive social suicide in the name of his unrecognized genius and personality. Some other characters around him are a lot more hilarious than he is. The undercover cop is pathetic in his attempt to achieve something valuable though he is only able to follow and suffer the trend that would eventually lead him to destruction. Luckily Ignatius is here and leads him to rings of illegal perverts : child pornography, pire violence, etc. There is also a fabulous bourgeois or industrialist who survives from nothing, except his inheritance, but who is salvaged by Ignatius who causes a great crisis with one of his clients. This crisis will lead to pure injustice, though also pure justice : retiring an old senile secretary who accepts to take one of Ignatius' provocations on her shoulders to be retired. But the Levy of Levy Pants finally finds some energy and invents Levy Shorts that will be a success because of his newly-found entrepreneurial energy. The mother is pathetic in her motherly love and her desire to get rid of the weight that her son represents to her. And all that is caused by a grownup teenager who could not grow over his father's death when he was young, and then his dog's death when he was still in high-school. Then he got in connection with another anarchistic mind, a girl, and fell in love with her but the clash between the two anarchism led her to go back to New York, and yet to retain the relation, and yet to come at the last minute and salvage him from internment in a psychiatric hospital. He escapes this cp&ugrave;^metely destructive environment because and thanks to her. But this book is a deep reflection on society. Our society, in the name of post-modernistic individualism leads to a complete control of individuals provided they stick to their little cubicles and their preformatted attitudes. Then they are aithorized to do all kind of private capers, provided they are completely cut-off from mainstrema diversified normalization. They have to be consciously and willingly schizophrenic to survive in society and have their pleasures in the dark night margins of this society. Such a world is unbearably crazy and this denunciation of post-modernism is an inspiring ray of sunshine in the darkest pit of all. It is this aging and improving of this dramatic analysis of our modern society that makes this book a piece of unforgettable art. But beware ! Do not identify with any character if you do not want to become as crazy as they are, as disruptive as they are and as much of misfits as they are. If you cannot live up to sane schizophrenia, you better leave and go back to your death chamber of an isolating cell. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.evy Pants finally finds some energy and invents Levy Shorts that will be a success because of his newly-found entrepreneurial energy. The mother is pathetic in her motherly love and her desire to get rid of the weight that her son represents to her. And all that is caused by a grownup teenager who could not grow over his father's death when he was young, and then his dog's death when he was still in high-school. Then he got in connection with another anarchistic mind, a girl, and fell in love with her but the clash between the two anarchism led her to go back to New York, and yet to retain the relation, and yet to come at the last minute and salvage him from internment in a psychiatric hospital. He escapes this cp^metely destructive environment because and thanks to her. But this book is a deep reflection on society. Our society, in the name of post-modernistic individualism leads to a complete control of individuals provided they stick to their little cubicles and their preformatted attitudes. Then they are aithorized to do all kind of private capers, provided they are completely cut-off from mainstrema diversified normalization. They have to be consciously and willingly schizophrenic to survive in society and have their pleasures in the dark night margins of this society. Such a world is unbearably crazy and this denunciation of post-modernism is an inspiring ray of sunshine in the darkest pit of all. It is this aging and improving of this dramatic analysis of our modern society that makes this book a piece of unforgettable art. But beware ! Do not identify with any character if you do not want to become as crazy as they are, as disruptive as they are and as much of misfits as they are. If you cannot live up to sane schizophrenia, you better leave and go back to your death chamber of an isolating cell. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-03-27
US	50989966	R1HKLGQJD6AOR	0140250743	606168371	The Celts: Second Edition (Penguin History)	Books	4	17	24	N	N	A great culture assassinated by the Legions	Nora Chadwick gives us in this book an essential vision of what the Celts were. A great civilization, extremely advanced in crafts and arts, with a fully developed mythology of gods who were the masters of these crafts and arts. She gives us all the details she can find on this civilization : their level of development and any kind of metal work and the rich social order that went along with it. Dynamic agriculture, rich arts, a lot of commerce, great crafts and a religion that was based on those social values. Just for this reason, this book is essential. She should have insisted on the Celts' great underdevelopment as for warfare when confronted to the Romans. They were all warriors but were not able to fight against a professional army. They were individuals fighting to defend their own communities not mercenaries fighting to conquer and to loot. Some more recent research has been done on the Gauls and has revealed how those warriors were preparing for war. They were trying to build some unity through rites that made them share their most intimate feelings and fluids. A lot of research has also been done on the position of women showing that they were the doctors of this civilization, and hence were not reduced to a secondary and minimized status. They were full members of their society. This civilization was not mizogynistic, or phallocratic and certainly not homophobic. Their religion was also a set of rites that made all members of the society equal. Unluckily, the Romans, and even the Mediterraneans (Phenicians, Greeks and Romans) conquered them first through some commerce and then through military force. They destroyed this civilization and reduced it to slavery. And that was only the beginning. Christianisation was performed ruthlessly and all the culture, the arts, the mythology were destroyed by being forced into Christian rules. It is emblematic to see how the first christianisation of these people was destroyed later on to stick to the new Roman augustinian ideas, which meant a second deprivation of their culture by purifying the first Christian faith they had adopted of all the remnants or recollections of previous Celtic heritage. Some will say history cannot be repaired. Sure. But we must note that our Western civilization lost a tremendous amount of inspiration and human depth by this brutal colonialization. The Celts were dedicated to human and visionary values that we have lost. The Celts were dedicated to a real cult of nature and total respect for it. We are presently reinventing this respect for the natural environment. But we have to do this because the Mediterraneans destroyed it some twenty centirues ago. What a waste of time ! What a waste of energy ! Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.nian ideas, which meant a second deprivation of their culture by purifying the first Christian faith they had adopted of all the remnants or recollections of previous Celtic heritage. Some will say history cannot be repaired. Sure. But we must note that our Western civilization lost a tremendous amount of inspiration and human depth by this brutal colonialization. The Celts were dedicated to human and visionary values that we have lost. The Celts were dedicated to a real cult of nature and total respect for it. We are presently reinventing this respect for the natural environment. But we have to do this because the Mediterraneans destroyed it some twenty centirues ago. What a waste of time ! What a waste of energy ! Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-03-27
US	50989966	RYKNFTT7LXR27	0786866462	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Silent homophobia is a crime against humanity!!!	Christopher Rice is the most attractive, courageous and pungent author of his age I have read for quite many years. In this book he dares to deal with THE problem of the US at the present moment : sexual-oriented violence, and in this particular case, homophobia, the lynching of homosexuals. First the book is a real thriller and we will know two or three fundamental secrets only on the very last page. It is marvelous, it is a prodigy for someone so young. Second the style is that of his generation, the zapping generation. The time line is broken, distorted and even mashed into some kind of a-temporal contemplation and story telling. It is absolutely fascinating to jump like that from one time to another, from one place to another, from one character to another, from one point of view to another. The reader has to be active from beginning to end. The reader is not a passive spittoon. The reader is the only one who can follow the line by reconstructing it constantly. Christopher Rice is really the most exacting and demanding author because his readers cannot just follow the flow of the discourse, of the story since we are plunged into a maelstrom  that has to be sorted out for us to just plainly survive as readers. Christopher, you are a genius and the intercourse we have to entertain and build with your story, with you, is the most fascinating and exciting personal relation one reader can weave with his author, and I do not say one author with his reader. The initiative of this intercourse must come from the reader. The author is nothing but the prompter of our pleasure that can only be found in our reconstruction of the tempestuous tale Christopher dares delve us into. Third, Christopher Rice shows that homophobia comes from the deepest layers of a society, the deepest layers of a personality, from the deepest and muddiest layers of a culture. Homophobia is not a belief, is not an ethical attitude. It is a disease and as such must be treated as a plague. Homophobia is the disease in this society of ours that makes killing, torturing, raping and even worse forms of inhuman behavior plain justified because it is based on a norm that does not accept any exception. Homophobia, just like racism or sexism or any other rejection of even the slightest difference (the way to dress or to speak for instance), is a crime against humanity and  Christopher Rice makes it also a crime against God, Life and Intelligence. Homophobia is THE CRIME PER SE, and there is no other crime that can compare. To read such a book and to enjoy it is the only way to build a consciousness of humanity, humaneness, divinity and divineness. But, and this is essential, even the neutral ignorance of the existence of homosexuality, of sexual differences, without any expressed hostility, is the first step and the most vicious step to homophobia. We must accept differences, and we must accept to integrate these differences in our every day consciousness, language, experience, etc. The old attitude : « I don't mind really, so far as it does not cross my path », is exposed as the first step and the hypocritical step of the cultured and civilized moron and bigot that seems to be tolerant and is in fact non-hostile as long as the subject is kept out of sight, is hidden away, is negated in the environment of the effete intellectual and moralist. That common criminal remains an innocent liberal as long as he does not see any evil, he does not hear any evil, he does not taste any evil, he does not smell any  evil and no one ever ever speaks any evil in his presence. And not like the famous three monkeys, but in absolute concrete material reality. In other words, this criminal will remain innocent as long as what he does not want to know about will remain out of prehension for him. But as soon as the homosexual he has been living along, unawares, all the time with, dares come out of his cabinet, closet or even wardrobe, he will pick up a pistol, a gun and a rifle and willshoot point blank at this unacceptable vicious pervert who dares ask for the right to exist in full light, under the bright sunshine. Christopher Rice, you have written a cult novel on the subject of homophobia and you deserve already a Nobel Prize. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.oot point blank at this unacceptable vicious pervert who dares ask for the right to exist in full light, under the bright sunshine. Christopher Rice, you have written a cult novel on the subject of homophobia and you deserve already a Nobel Prize. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-03-03
US	50989966	R2IYYVCJ9C82DN	1569472041	259609033	Adrian Mole: The Cappuccino Years	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Blair Project seen from Ashby-de-la-Zouch	Sue Townsend is a marvelous writer. With this character, Adrian Mole, that she has been following since his puberty, we have a funny, and satirical, yet very kind vision of England over the last thirty years. In this volume Adrian Mole suffers a loss of profession, a debut on Cable TV, a debut, with a ghost writer, in publishing, a divorce, a case of DNA-decided new son, and many other adventures, including the burning of his brand-new gift house. But the naivete and the apparent silliness of the character  covers a deeper vision of society. The vision is this time very satirical, even if most of the time at a third or fourth level. He witnesses the arrival of Tony Blair and the first year or so of this new English politician. The man is new, the party is not, the solutions are not, just the man and the language, including a certain dimension of sexual innuendo to capture attention and obedience. Through the many pages of this diary, all kinds of typical English traits are presented, always defended, or nearly, but in such a way that we know there must be at least five tongues in ten cheeks. And that is probably the best aspect of this book. It is the tone of Laurence Sterne and his Sentimental Journey, though in this latter case France was at stake. But we have the same style and the same treatment of the matter. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-02-23
US	50989966	R2JMYTSVNVRW5U	0684823438	526098515	Rock, Paper, Scissors	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	There are rotten apples in the State of the Republic	Steve Manuel commits here his first fictional crime. And for a first it is quite good. It is a political thriller, a thriller first, but completely embedded in a political context. It is very dynamic, technically very well informed. It is a page-turner, even if there are here and there some discrepancies. Even if the allusion to Kennedy's assassination is never specifically materialized. But the main theme is disquieting. The American state, starting in 1963, has been colonized by some ambitious people, one is the State Secretary, another one is an essential general from the Pentagon, and some unclean dealers (warmongers and armsmugglers, etc). These believe that the good objectives of the political system cannot be reached except if untraditional methods are used, in order to stay over the law, over any control from the FBI, the CIA, the Secret Services and some other agencies of the same type. To be effective, you must be a criminal, and these infiltrators have chosen that path. Against them a representative of corporate America, or corporate globalized America to be more precise. And, in spite of some criminal aspects of his projects, it is this one who appears, in the end, as the good one, though he uses weapons quite freely, but to punish criminals, even if his target is Saddam Hussein. That's where I find the book slightly short : Saddam Hussein is absolutely bad and the Israelis are absolutely good in the book. But can we be that simple ? We are not always clear if the action situated in the 90s is not a little bit off its historical rockers when Russia seems to be still seen as communist. Not clear either when the Democratic President has a State Secretary who heavily served under Reagan. Everything is possible, in political science fiction, but not in political fiction that is situated in our real time. But those are details and the lesson remains that the vision of the US state, or any other state as for that, is that of an organization that is over the law. The State Secretary uses criminal methods to prevent the assassination of Saddam Hussein seen as a balancing block in the Middle East, but the missiles used by the corporate businessman were provided to him by the President who appoints the essential person to the State Secretary security organization in order to block the State Secretary. Who is clean here ? Who wants peace even if it is a fragile balancing game ? Who wants war even if it means the endangering of US interests, and of global interests as for that ? If you want to know whether Saddam Hussein is assassinated or not, read the book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.w. The State Secretary uses criminal methods to prevent the assassination of Saddam Hussein seen as a balancing block in the Middle East, but the missiles used by the corporate businessman were provided to him by the President who appoints the essential person to the State Secretary security organization in order to block the State Secretary. Who is clean here ? Who wants peace even if it is a fragile balancing game ? Who wants war even if it means the endangering of US interests, and of global interests as for that ? If you want to know whether Saddam Hussein is assassinated or not, read the book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-02-10
US	50989966	R234P07OC740TD	0750917032	862110679	The Black Death (Sutton Illustrated History Paperbacks)	Books	4	12	18	N	N	A beneficial catastrophy	Philip Ziegler in this edition of The Black Death tries to give a full picture of the Plague that reached Europe in 1338 to stay there till the Great Plague of London in 1665. He compiles all information he can on the subject and confronts all these contradictory elements and tries to give a fair, balanced, and honest picture. Difficult. This plague probably cost Europe between 12.5% and 70% of its population according to the places, regions and population density, hygiene,etc. Yet the plague was not such a scourge after all. After two or three centuries of steady and great expansion of rural Europe due to the first agricultural revolution (the use of animals to till the land) and that caused a tremendous demographic expansion, the situation changed at the end of the 13th century. Overpopulation (two much labor for the amount of work available, and two many people for the avaialble resources of the time), famines here and there, undernourishment and malnutrition, all that caused the development of « heresies », that is to say standard religious orders (like the Franciscans) or religious inspired groups that advocated the poverty of Christ, hence the poverty of the church, hence a more equalitarian society and a better sharing of the resources. This led to dire crusades and the Inquisition that became a ruthless and criminal tool of the church to impose its full control on the minds of people. It also went along with the development of an apocalyptic vision of the world, the famous coming of doomsday and of the Antichrist. The plague (pneumonic, bubonic and septicaemic) was a way to reduce pressure and the great reserves in human resources explain the fact that recovery was rapid. But it also proved the apocalyptic vision wrong, because the world did not come to an end. It produced a new approach to religion, more sincere, more contemplative, but definitely no longer based on the coming of the Antichrist. They started wanting to go back to the real text, to the Bible, since all the predicators were wrong, and since priests or cardinals were just punished the same way as simple sinners. What's more the Sodom and Gomorrah myth did not stand this time : the whole population was not destroyed, but only a portion of it. The conequences were far reaching in other fields. It gave serfs and villeins a better bargaining power, more freedom and mobility. It caused increased salaries and more money instead of edibles or other goods. It moved society towards a more monetary hence commercial society. In the countryside it reduced the power of landowners. It also decimated some perambulating professions, especially craftsman, builders, stone workers, etc, and it deprived the great wave of church building that followed of their best artists, and thus it gave rise to what we call the Perpendicular style, simpler, less ornate and purer. The geometry is the same, but the looks are more austere. The function is clearer : to elevate the faithful towards the light of God, towards the light of the Truth. New forms of art also developed under the influence of the Avignon Popes : a gregorian polyphony, new forms like Motets, etc, all things that are attached to the Italian Renaissance, and yet that developed greatly in the 13th and especially 14th centuries in France. This book will not give you a final knowledge of that greatly neglected historical period, but it will definitely enrich your mind with a lot of disquieting ideas. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris universities II and IX., since all the predicators were wrong, and since priests or cardinals were just punished the same way as simple sinners. What's more the Sodom and Gomorrah myth did not stand this time : the whole population was not destroyed, but only a portion of it. The conequences were far reaching in other fields. It gave serfs and villeins a better bargaining power, more freedom and mobility. It caused increased salaries and more money instead of edibles or other goods. It moved society towards a more monetary hence commercial society. In the countryside it reduced the power of landowners. It also decimated some perambulating professions, especially craftsman, builders, stone workers, etc, and it deprived the great wave of church building that followed of their best artists, and thus it gave rise to what we call the Perpendicular style, simpler, less ornate and purer. The geometry is the same, but the looks are more austere. The function is clearer : to elevate the faithful towards the light of God, towards the light of the Truth. New forms of art also developed under the influence of the Avignon Popes : a gregorian polyphony, new forms like Motets, etc, all things that are attached to the Italian Renaissance, and yet that developed greatly in the 13th and especially 14th centuries in France. This book will not give you a final knowledge of that greatly neglected historical period, but it will definitely enrich your mind with a lot of disquieting ideas. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris universities II and IX.	2001-02-06
US	50989966	R718DYWL0E1VQ	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	20	24	N	Y	Great though not complete	Umberto Eco reaches here a certain perfection in that type of historical novel on the early fourteenth century, though he does not try to explain in any way the reasons of the emergence of all the heresies dealing with poverty. The economic context is entirely neglected : two centuries of extremely important expansion based on the first agricultural revolution (a lot of cultivated land gained on the forests, the use of animal energy and work to till the land). This had caused a great expansion of the population and the development of cities, hence of commerce. This increase in population had made the crusades possible. But due to the inability to plan the demographic expansion and to develop the next stage of the agricultural revolution (rotation of crops, fallow fields and fertilizing) Europe is becoming overpopulated, with a great richness in a minority (including the church) and an ever wider section of society touched by poverty, famine, malnutrition, etc. The answer is religious : the church preaches total submission to the fate of man decided by God, and more and more orders or heretical groups preach the equalizing of society by imposing poverty as an ethic duty for all, particularly for the rich, preaching thus a redistribution of wealth, and going as far as a refusal of property seen as the cause of unequal society. The book starts with the debate on the poverty of Christ as a model for the church, and with this debate being recuperated by the new German Emperor to control the church and impose his authority on it. The Popes then flee from Rome and go to Avignon, where they are protected by the King of France. This level of the debate is richly illustrated by the book. The book is thus centered on those two levels : the theological, and partly social, debate on poverty and equality, and the struggle for power between the King of France and the German Emperor, and the impossibility for the Church to remain neutral and to become the real referee between the two monarchs. That leads to the heretical debate and the role of the Inquisition. The book leans toward the meaning that poverty is a necessary requirement to force humanity to reflect on its fate and its destiny, and it also leans toward the meaning that the Inquisition is not a real system of justice but an organisation of watchdogs that enables the church to eradicate those who would introduce debates inside the church. The method used by the Inquisition is very finely detailed and discussed : to destabilize the accused with the menace or the use of torture so that the Inquisitional judge appears as a saviour, a last recourse, and then this dependance towards the judge makes the accused play in the hand of the judge and then justifies the system and the accusation, not with real facts but with the acceptation of a lethal fate to escape suffering and questioning.<br />Strangely enough, Umberto Eco adds an ever true theme in the book : the use and the necessity of knowkedge as the ferment and the engine of progress. Knowledge can only be found in the books of the past and subsumed through the observation of facts and the use of logics. Knowledge is a liberation of the spirit but also of the body, because it enables progress and better means to improve the lot of man on earth, through inventions and machines. This goes against the grain of a dogmatic approach of religion, supported by the Inquisition and the fight against heresies : if the Book, the Bible, is the absolute sum of true knowledge given by God to man, then man does not have to look for knowledge, look for new facts or interpretations, try to invent new machines or productive processes. On one side liberation through knowledge or science. On the other side submission to a closed text and interpretation of that text and the eternal repetition of it and submission to whatever life may bring, all of it being seen as the will of God or the making of the Devil. Then intelligence can only be used to decide whatis on the side of God and what is on the side of the Devil and the Antichrist.<br />The book does not close so many debates, but only tells us a story. The abbey is entirely destroyed, starting with the library, the largest library of christendom. The monks are hence either killed or scattered away and their knowledge is lost just like their books. What is interesting in the book is that it is entirely organised like a thriller and guided by the Apocalypse, by the Book of Revelations. So we discover little by little a fierce fight for power within the abbey, and the criminal planning of a blind and fundamentalistic monk who prefers killing other monks and destroying the whole library for one book not to get into the hands of anyone, the second part of the Poetics by Aristotle. Fundamentalism leads to crime, and even crimes against humanity. This book is thus tremendously modern and strong. It is also sad, not because knowledge always succeeds (which would not be sad really, except for the fundamentalists), but because knowledge always encounters resistance and rejection. There is no way to see knowledge be recognized at once, and the field of knowledge is a fierce battle field for power among those who should defend only truth. They only defend their own personal truth that ensures them to keep their power or conquer new powers.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.t is on the side of God and what is on the side of the Devil and the Antichrist. <br />The book does not close so many debates, but only tells us a story. The abbey is entirely destroyed, starting with the library, the largest library of christendom. The monks are hence either killed or scattered away and their knowledge is lost just like their books. What is interesting in the book is that it is entirely organised like a thriller and guided by the Apocalypse, by the Book of Revelations. So we discover little by little a fierce fight for power within the abbey, and the criminal planning of a blind and fundamentalistic monk who prefers killing other monks and destroying the whole library for one book not to get into the hands of anyone, the second part of the Poetics by Aristotle. Fundamentalism leads to crime, and even crimes against humanity. This book is thus tremendously modern and strong. It is also sad, not because knowledge always succeeds (which would not be sad really, except for the fundamentalists), but because knowledge always encounters resistance and rejection. There is no way to see knowledge be recognized at once, and the field of knowledge is a fierce battle field for power among those who should defend only truth. They only defend their own personal truth that ensures them to keep their power or conquer new powers. <br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2001-01-26
US	50989966	R2AZYIHD04HIXA	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Soul turning	John Saul is a master of macabre suspense. This book hence is a thriller first of all with a series of crimes and the search for the criminal. But it is a lot more. It is the description of the ideology of a small city in New England. You find the tribes, the hostilities, the loves and the divisions of a small society, along various lines : social lines like rich and poor ; historical lines like the founding families and the others ; political lines like the families who control the city and the others ; and even cultural lines like those who respect humane ways and those who only abide by biassed ideas and the local grapevine. And yet this book goes a long way beyond. It uses some ghost to reveal, little by little, the deepest past of the « criminal ». The ghost is haunting the criminal with nightmares and even manipulation. The ghost is invading the whole environment of the criminal and putting things right her own way, that is to say taking away from the criminal, her own sister, all the things she got due to the death of that particular ghost : a son, a husband, a family, a house, etc. The ghost is on a vengeful road and she will never be taken away from it. And this book still  goes farther by using a fundamental theme in John Saul's writings : the theme of brutalized and sexually assaulted kids. This dimension gives John Saul's novels a very poignant taste, the taste of some sickness that pervades our society, a sickness that will probably never end because the victims of such bad treatments are oblivious of them as soon as they can escape them, by growing for example. Memory is such a short-term business. And often these lost memories will be embedded into some innocent strangers later on through some kind of unconscious transfer from the perpetrator onto this stranger in the mind of the grown-up victim. In this particular novel, the line is demultiplied and the various threads are intricately entertwined. That gives a deep and strong pageturner that we can only put down when the last page is turned. It is a book for those who like compulsive reading. And the main lesson is that there is no escape in front of a ghost that will never be killed in anyway and that will possess any living person who will fit her desires. Ghosts are eternal and life is always a necessary coexistence with one or several ghosts and we have to learn how to survive with them in the background. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Parus universities II and IX.nly put down when the last page is turned. It is a book for those who like compulsive reading. And the main lesson is that there is no escape in front of a ghost that will never be killed in anyway and that will possess any living person who will fit her desires. Ghosts are eternal and life is always a necessary coexistence with one or several ghosts and we have to learn how to survive with them in the background. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Parus universities II and IX.	2001-01-04
US	50989966	RSN4706QLH1KX	0441294677	274386890	God Emperor of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Governing is to plan one's end	Frank Herbert in this novel reaches a height of vision that is incredible. Leto II, tranformed into some worm by his symbiosis with the sandtrout, has imposed a more than three thousand year long peace in the whole universe unified under his authority. Dune has been completely transformed and has lost practically all its deserts and its worms, hence its spice. It is Arrakis. Leto controls the world by controling the remaining spice and hence being able to ration it and give it to anyone who needs it, provided they obey. But a new phase in human history is coming. He has managed to produce, through birth planning, the perfect female Atreides, Siona. He has also used regenerated Duncans for all that time and the last one is supposed to be mated to this Siona. But new progress is coming from the planet Ix. It is a new project of traveling machines that will not need spice as the Guild needs right now. This will open space to free transportation. They have also produced, from a few cells of an old opponent, Malky, the perfect woman that can capture the love of Leto II. This trap does work, and it is during the process of going to the celebration of their wedding that the others attack them and destroy them. Leto has to give his world to womeone else, and that someone else has to accept this world, willy-nilly. There is no escape. But the book is far more interesting as a treatise on political and historical government. « A leader tries to perpetuate the conditions that demand his leadership. » This is one force that comes out of history : conservative perpetuation of a given political organization. But at the same time, such a leader is doomed in his own perpetuation if he is not able to understand that he needs the outsider as well, the rebel, the one who questions and even menaces his power. He is really doomed if he does not give a position to that outsider, so that his own power is both reinforced and justified by this challenge. The book is the whole story of this final challenger who will destroy the leader of three odd thousand years, but who will also inherit this world and hence be able to move it to some change. Frank Herbert is perfect as a story teller both in the thrills and suspense he is able to create and in the fabulously intricate psychology of his characters. Such a story, such a book, and even the whole series of Dune novels are essential for us to navigate in our modern world, though it requires a good knowledge of quite a lot of human history, and a certain dose of realistic pragmatism not to transfer all that into everyday life, though it is satanically tempting. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.final challenger who will destroy the leader of three odd thousand years, but who will also inherit this world and hence be able to move it to some change. Frank Herbert is perfect as a story teller both in the thrills and suspense he is able to create and in the fabulously intricate psychology of his characters. Such a story, such a book, and even the whole series of Dune novels are essential for us to navigate in our modern world, though it requires a good knowledge of quite a lot of human history, and a certain dose of realistic pragmatism not to transfer all that into everyday life, though it is satanically tempting. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-12-29
US	50989966	RIGT6ZYQL4XND	0441104029	357442714	Children of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book Three)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Sandtrout Glove of an Epiphany	This third volume of the Dune saga amplifies the previous spiritual dimension that deals with the emergence of a religion in popular folklore with a new approach that gives to this religion the force of a terroristic and absolute tool to impose a political power, a political organization and total control over the people. But the main interest of the volume is the slow and systematic decaying of that power and in a way its denunciation. Not purely on the basis that it is absolute political power, hence totalitarian, but because it is seized by a person who is haunted by the ghost of the tyrant that this person's own father toppled. Thus a morality appears in the tale. Power is good if the ruler is good. Power is bad if the ruler is bad. It seems thus to go against one common assumption : power corrupts and absolutre power corrupts absolutely. In fact Herbert goes back to John Adams, the Second President of the Unites States who used to way : « Despotism, or unlimited sovereignty, or absolute power, is the same in a majority of a popular assembly, an aristocratic council, an oligarchical junto, and a single emperor. » In fact Herbert seems to think that the only decent power is that of an enlightened emperor using force and even cruelty only when necessary. But when is it necessary ? This political dimension of the saga and of this volume is doubled with an interesting level of fantasy and fantastique. That enables the author to introduce some twists in the story that are not logical but only deus ex machina, even if necessary for the story to go on. Yet these tricks are interesting, if we accept to suspend our incredulity, because they are always delicate and extremely well, announced, introduced, developed and used. A great book to read for the fun of it as well as the reflection it contains. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-12-05
US	50989966	RJQV8MAFNXYR	0553455370	625777480	Romeo and Juliet: BBC Dramatization (BBC Radio Presents)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Far from satisfying	This radio adaptation is interesting in some ways, but it remains rather short on its objective. The sound universe created behind the voices is rather diminutive. Some voices are not that very accurate : Juliet is rather old-sounding and Romeo is quite late in his twenties at least. Lord Capulet speaks as if he were plain drunk all the time. But what's more some interpretations are defective. The famous sonnet during the dance is just badly done. The tone is wrong. The wit is flattened, etc. The balcony scene is slightly better, luckily. Romeo, by the way, is too much of a hooligan, of an agressive character, not at all in keeping with the world we can vaguely hear behind. Finally there are some cuts and some changes in the text that are not at all justified, such as « pacing » for « passing ». Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-11-28
US	50989966	R1JCE05MZPVQJV	0811202097	823934486	Under Milk Wood: A Play for Voices	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What a moon in that sunny seafaring field!	One full day, from night to night, in a Welsh village, town and harbour. All Dylan Thomas's art is there everywhere everpresent in those few odd but packed pages. Unforgettable oxymorons : « night's first darkening snow ». Unforseeable metaphors : « his dream buckets down ». Unpredictable similes : « her ears fall off like figs ». A permanent joy, even in the most squalid situations : « and quick as a flash he [Mr Pugh] ducks her [Mrs Pugh] in rat soup ». The permanent music of the language and of innumerable songs : « We are a musical nation ». The simple and healthy desires of man for woman and especially of woman for man : « Tom who is two yards long, Dick who is three feet thick, Harry who is as sweet as a cherry, the good bad boys from the lonely farms, Willy Wee who is six feet deep, and Mr Waldo in Pembroke City, the chimbley sweep, till a kind young woman took pity, come and sweep my chimbley ». Everywhere we are at sea and in the hills enjoying life and its misfits, misdeeds, and misadventures from wave to wood, from beach to bloom and broom, « Let me shipwreck in your thighs ». « Off to Gomorrah » as Jack Black says, « all black like the Ace of Spades ». Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-11-18
US	50989966	R35REPK6VEQKJG	0060194480	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492 to the Present	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Open your eyes, but use glasses if necessary.	Howard Zinn is a great historian, not because he knows thousands of facts that we are never told about various social, ethnic, cultural or political movements in  the United States, or even before the Revolution, but because he constantly asks questions about why and how this or that decision was taken, this or that event took place. He is not satisfied by the Declaration of Independance or the Constitution of the United States. He asks the question of the meaning of it at the time, and for him the meaning is : Who was it done by ? Who was it done for ? Who was it done without ? Who was it done against ? Who was rejected by it ? Whos was alienated by it ? etc. And the  various amendments prove his point : children of both sexes, women, blacks of both sexes and Indians of both sexes were explicitly excluded from the benefits of the constitution at the origin. And the debates before, during and after the writing and voting of the constitution prove his point too, with many explaining their point of view that a representative government is more effective to contain any kind of social or political protest movement than any other form of government, though I am convinced they were wrong : the English Monarchy becalme really representative only lately, and Monstesquieu has proved to the whole world that democracy is an unavoidable and irreversible movement and aim. Where I find him at times too schematic is his constant reference to the concept of class. He has some difficulty getting over that concept and higher than that concept that cannot explain everything. He has problems understanding that the real motivation of any protest movement of any kind is to be found in the alienation the protesters experience, be it social, political, sexual, cultural, ethnic, age-related, or of any other possible nature. Then the question is to ask how such alienations produce protest movements and how such multivaried alienations and ensuing protest movements can come together. But when they do, they can be very effective in blocking a certain way the system works, like in Seattle in the Fall 1999. This question is not answered by Zinn, and his too strong an emphasis put on the concept of class prevents him from being able to even ask the question. Nevertheless the book is essential because it gathers so much unknown data about so many historical events. It is a great help for students to widen their quests and for teachers and professors to enrich their practices. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II &amp; IX.they do, they can be very effective in blocking a certain way the system works, like in Seattle in the Fall 1999. This question is not answered by Zinn, and his too strong an emphasis put on the concept of class prevents him from being able to even ask the question. Nevertheless the book is essential because it gathers so much unknown data about so many historical events. It is a great help for students to widen their quests and for teachers and professors to enrich their practices. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II &amp; IX.	2000-11-07
US	50989966	R5XWEI5ZXBHH9	067104236X	675590435	More Than a Hero: Muhammad Ali's Life Lessons Presented Through His Daughter's Eyes	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Let the Young Dream of Him!	Hana Ali does a marvellous job at presenting her father, the famous and unforgettable Muhammad Ali, and some of his writings. We admired him when he became the World Champion of his boxing category. We admired and supported him when he refused to go and fight in Vietnam for conscientious reasons ; « No Vietcong ever called me a nigger ») and when the system got its vengeance by getting his boxing title off him and putting him in the « can » for quite many years, punishing him for his objection but also punishing his wife and his children. We admired his will power when he reconquered his title. To read his poems, his writings is most invigorating. His daughter presents him as a hero and an angel. We feel his faith in a God of goodwill and charity, of love and peace in every single sentence, in every single page. We understand the total admiration his daughter cultivates for him. Especially since he now endures his natural ordeal which is named Parkinson's. Some pages of that book are beautiful, and that is enough to say so. His love for the poor, for the deprived, for the dispossessed is one more reason to think he was and is a great man, a great spirit, a soul all Afro-Americans can be proud of, a model for younger generations of any race who have lost the desire and the strength to fight for a better future for humanity. An inspiring book that we should all read and comment, that we should have teenagers read and comment in school. Only one flaw in that perfect gem : the one instance when he cannot convince his daughter to eat her vegetables, and he accepts her to dispose of them in the toilet. Has Hana thought of those in the world who have no vegetables at all to eat ? I have been educated in this absolute morality that considers that food is too hard to be bought, cooked, prepared for it to be in any way thrown away. Even bread crumbs can be used to bread some meat or to thicken your soup. But nevertheless, it is and remains an inspiring book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.DEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-11-03
US	50989966	R2JJ1ZJ937IAKA	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Reading us into everyday real horror!	Stephen King has been experimenting some new forms of communication for a while, and his attempt at giving short stories on CDs is quite a promising success. First his voice is agreeable and hoarse enough to give density to stories that need heavily-packed language. We could regret that some voice effects are too bland, but that is a choice and it is acceptable if we consider the object of these recordings is to make people use their imagination and not only to manipulate their hearing to plunge them into a pre-constructed audio world. We have to represent the referential world of the stories in our mind's eye. First , Lunch at the Gotham Caf&eacute; is a thriller and it is absolutely exciting. Every moment of it is more dramatic than the previous one, exploring the mind of a man suddenly turned crazy and murderous, and also exploring the mind of the main character, Steve, trying to cope with the craziness of the havoc the maître d' is creating, as well as exploring the vicious mind of Steve's wife, soon to be ex-wife, who is getting just as lunatic as the maître d' and becoming unable to see that she was saved by Steve and even quite able to try to make him fail in his attempt, to get some vengeance of hers, not realizing that she would kill herself in the same move. Blood all right, but Stephen King shows that under any stress at all, the real reaction of a smoker is to quit and then his vision is demultiplied into a nightmare that can any time come true. And it sure does here. Second, 1408 is the only story of the set that contains an element of supernatural dimension : one room of one hotel in New York is inhabited by some unhuman being, or is it really a being of any kind ? Yet it is carnivorous and you can only escape it by killing yourself or using the only thing it is afraid of : fire. And there is the smoke of a book of matches used to light up, not a cigarette but a victim, so that the being lets the victim go because it does not like roasted meat. Yet He will not escape the trap really and he will go away with some unhealthy souvenirs who will eventually bring him down to an early death in suffering. But keep some matches at hand all the time. It is the safest way to escape one of those haunting « beings » that live in the walls of our urban buildings. Third, In the Deathroom is another thriller, a realistic story about some kind of anti-communist dictatorship in some kind of Central American big-brother-state. There, tobacco is the means to escape, the tool to fake your way out of the torture room, the death room, the death row of the Ministry of Information of that hellish paradise for Hitler's babies and apprentices. The point is that tobacco will never become a new habit for such an escapee from Tortureland. It will become some pilgrimage of a vague one-minute instant on forty-third street, just to pay homage to the tool that triggered out the forage to freedom of our hero.  A brilliant set, a set of stories gleaming with power, suspense, surprise, horror, and, above all, realism. Stephen King is not speaking of any out-of-the-world fantasy, but of our everyday life of divorce, lunacy, crime, nightmares, fears, torture and dictatorship. Please get down to it and jump into that phenomenal trip. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX....t escape the trap really and he will go away with some unhealthy souvenirs who will eventually bring him down to an early death in suffering. But keep some matches at hand all the time. It is the safest way to escape one of those haunting  beings  that live in the walls of our urban buildings. Third, In the Deathroom is another thriller, a realistic story about some kind of anti-communist dictatorship in some kind of Central American big-brother-state. There, tobacco is the means to escape, the tool to fake your way out of the torture room, the death room, the death row of the Ministry of Information of that hellish paradise for Hitler's babies and apprentices. The point is that tobacco will never become a new habit for such an escapee from Tortureland. It will become some pilgrimage of a vague one-minute instant on forty-third street, just to pay homage to the tool that triggered out the forage to freedom of our hero.  A brilliant set, a set of stories gleaming with power, suspense, surprise, horror, and, above all, realism. Stephen King is not speaking of any out-of-the-world fantasy, but of our everyday life of divorce, lunacy, crime, nightmares, fears, torture and dictatorship. Please get down to it and jump into that phenomenal trip. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX....	2000-10-14
US	50989966	R35BW9ZU17VNNE	0679776613	716027591	Flying Home: and Other Stories	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Flying is easy if there is no buzzard on the way	Ralph Ellison is a great writer. In this collection of old short stories we see him grow and develop under our own eyes. He deals with the problem of racial relations and of race definitions with a tact and humor that make some of his stories extremely funny. But some others are dramatic and deal with a more general and abstract matter. The title story is typical of that. A black pilot is confronted to all kinds of reactions, from his dead father, from a vulture that crashed his plane, from the white owner of the field where he crashes, from the blacks who try to solve his problem : he broke his ankle in the accident. The father is being humorous about heaven and white Saint Peter. The white owner is deeply racist and brings two « nurses » from a psychiatric hospital since a black man has to become crazy if he flies. The black witnesses are just trying to help the poor fallen pilot without getting any antagonism from the white owner, which is not exactly easy. In each story we find such situations that bring racism to the fore or that reveals the « education » a black man has to go through to become « adapted » to this racist society, to make himself, if not invisible, at least unconspicuous. Those stories are worth a little voyage into this writing that we see building itself stone by stone. Of course the real walls are the novels, but here are the handy tasks that shaped Ralph Ellison's hand and pen for the novels. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-10-04
US	50989966	R298H0J4HE6OK7	0375503935	431556445	Magic Terror: 7 Tales	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Horror worse than terror and yet terrific	In this collection of tales, Peter Straub is exploring some disturbing and  disquieting territories. Some of them are extremely fascinating and for  compulsive readers. The themes are also very varied. One constant : there  is always an element of supernatural that is either leading the story or  just plain  misleading the reader. At times this element only comes right  at the end. So we swing between realistic descriptions and tales, and  completely supernatural unbalance. We can find many influences in these  tales, particularly Vietnam, racism and religious bigotry : some kind of  religious social darwinism. The supernatural elements just make the story  absurd from a realistic point of view but perfectly understandable, logical  from the extreme point of view that is exposed and rejected. There is  always double talk in those tales, some kind of two forked tongues in both  cheeks. The best, from my point of view, is « Porkpie Hat », because we  have to imagine the real explanation, which is not too hard to do, and yet  there might be another explanation just as logical as the first one, since  the first one goes against so many things embedded in Southern society.  This first explanation is just « impossible », because it breaks all  limits, here racial limits, in this society. And yet... To be read instantly.  Peter Straub is the best manipulator of supernatural magic in horror  literature. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-09-06
US	50989966	R3QD9QHNIPVT7S	0571200982	943147454	Seven & 8Mm (Classic Screenplay)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	It concerns only Seven	It is surprising to read the screenplay after having seen the film several times and exploited it in class with senior high school students. There are  fundamental differences and the screenplay does not center the story the  same way as the film. The screenplay is definitely centered from beginning  to end on Somerset and not on Mills, or even on the couple Mills-Somerset.  The question that comes up then is not whether Mills is going to flunk or  not, but whether Somerset is going to leave the police and the City or not.  The first and last scenes of thes creenplay have been cut off. Apart from  that the differences are essentially details, but as I said before, the  perspective is different. The numerous and long stage directions are also  interesting because they give more meaning to the visual details, and they  also explain better why some details are there, but not always. It does not  tell us why the apartment of the 3rd victims is number 303 and Doe's  apartment is 6A. But there we can easily find the connection, and the  symbolism. But Mills is shown as an angry and ambitious man who does not  have the patience it takes to cope with the perverted world in which we  live, or die. Mills is definitely angrier and he reacts more violently in  the screenplay. We also find out that the stage directions explain his  character better than the way Brad Pitt plays it. Brad Pitt appears to lack  some depth and not to be able to show the psychological complexity that we  find in the screenplay, whereas Morgan Freeman is a lot better. That's  probably why the film was decentered from Somerset and centered on the  couple Mills-Somerset, not to put Brad Pitt in a secondary position. One  element though in the screenplay is to be criticized : the metronome used  by Somerset to recapture his balance at the end of a day, to erase the  noise of the city, to come back to some regular rhythm and to go to sleep  is definitely overused. Once is enough to understand. Three times is too  much. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.is too  much. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities II and IX.	2000-08-20
US	50989966	R2LVO0E6JO21OX	0375707549	361649258	Juneteenth: A Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	Y	To see is to be!	Ralph Ellison is back on our desks. His posthumous novel, marvellously  edited by John F. Callahan, is the continuation of the reality and vision  of Invisible Man. It is a book on identity, the identity of the black man,  beyond the long period of suffering under slavery, and then discrimination.  It is a visionary book about the future rising of the black man over these  circumstances and into the future. But it is also a very accurate portrait  of the black man's self-inflicted alienation : I mean religion, I mean the  rite of Juneteenth to celebrate the end of slavery as a myth of rebirth, in  June, in continuation with ancient summer rites, and a total blending with  the Christ's resurrection and the belief in a life after death. We feel in  the main character, a preacher of that new era, his fear for and  defensiveness toward the modern world, the cinema that he accuses of giving  the viewers an illusion about reality, without seeing that what he calls  the Truth, that is to say his belief in God's will could be seen as an  illusion too, but also without seeing that men and women, children and  adults are fascinated by new communication techniques, hence by the cinema.  And we do know better than this character. Ellison shows very precisely how  the black preacher is trapped in his own illusion, in his own fantasmagoric  world of « true » intentions that are false because leading to an impasse.  He is very critical all along of this preacher's refusing to tell the real  truth to Bliss, his white adopted child that he is grooming into becoming  his preaching assistant and a preacher himself, so « lying » to the child  in the name of a superior Truth, God's Truth. Vanity on his side to pretend  he knows God's intentions and motivations. The real truth is always best  and any lie is nothing but a lie and it distorts or twists reality. But  there is another dimension to that book : its lyrical and poetical approach  of man, humanity, growing, human objectives, hatred and love, and it is  this dimension that makes Ralph Ellison universal and able to go beyond  racial and racist limitations. And this universality has to do with  personality : a man cannot deny his deep nature and he has to go along his  own road, but his personality will be built little by little along this  road with the stones and bricks he will find there, from what he will learn  from people he will meet, from the events he will have to face and be  confronted to. Freedom is an individual dimension, just like truth, but  freedom and truth have no meaning whatsoever if they are not shared with  other people and their freedoms and truths. In other words, there is NO ONE  TRUTH revealed to us by God or some kind of prophet or any other authority,  be it the Senate or the Supreme Court. Truth is a construct just like  freedom is a conquest. And conquering and constructing truth and freedom,  one's truth and freedom, may be very frightening and disquieting, and it  may also hurt many other people if one does not accept to share one's truth  and one's freedom with these others. Ralph Ellison in this book reaches the  acme of his vision. He leaves invisibility behind and he finds a way to see  and represent the invisible. « What goes on in that darkness I create when  I refuse to see ? » he writes. And that is exactly what this book is : how  to explore and disspell this darkness cast on oneself and on the world by  this stubborn refusal to see. And any man, each man, every man and all men  are obliged, sooner or later, to open their eyes and see reality. « The  light of the body is the eye ! » Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities  II and IX.red and love, and it is  this dimension that makes Ralph Ellison universal and able to go beyond  racial and racist limitations. And this universality has to do with  personality : a man cannot deny his deep nature and he has to go along his  own road, but his personality will be built little by little along this  road with the stones and bricks he will find there, from what he will learn  from people he will meet, from the events he will have to face and be  confronted to. Freedom is an individual dimension, just like truth, but  freedom and truth have no meaning whatsoever if they are not shared with  other people and their freedoms and truths. In other words, there is NO ONE  TRUTH revealed to us by God or some kind of prophet or any other authority,  be it the Senate or the Supreme Court. Truth is a construct just like  freedom is a conquest. And conquering and constructing truth and freedom,  one's truth and freedom, may be very frightening and disquieting, and it  may also hurt many other people if one does not accept to share one's truth  and one's freedom with these others. Ralph Ellison in this book reaches the  acme of his vision. He leaves invisibility behind and he finds a way to see  and represent the invisible.  What goes on in that darkness I create when  I refuse to see ?  he writes. And that is exactly what this book is : how  to explore and disspell this darkness cast on oneself and on the world by  this stubborn refusal to see. And any man, each man, every man and all men  are obliged, sooner or later, to open their eyes and see reality.  The  light of the body is the eye !  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities  II and IX.	2000-08-19
US	50989966	R195R1OO5MVM21	0262600250	717146379	The Architecture of the Language Faculty (Linguistic Inquiry Monographs)	Books	3	4	21	N	N	Architecture needs foundations	This book is essential to understand where Chomsky's theory stands today.  Jackendoff was the linguist in Chomsky's school who tried to cope with the  problem of semantics, but he is an orthodox syntactical generativist. So he  was only able to cope with syntactic functions in an interpretative  approach, i.e. a semantic approach. In spite of what Chomsky said that  syntactic functions were ermbedded in the derivational tree, hence in  syntax, he took that semantic approach. This book is the last step before  the end of this approach. Beyond there is no future. Beyond we, linguists,  have to reformulate the axiom and go to the hypothesis that syntactic  functions, perfectly well mapped and analyzed by Jackendoff from the very  start, must be understood as syntactic and not semantic. This would enable  structural linguistics to finally understand that the foundation of  language is thought, that the foundation of the sentence structure is  functional, starting as mental functions (known as the « lexie » in  Culioli's approach) and becoming syntactic functions as the organizing  architecture of language from the very start, in the deepest of deep  structure. Without then entering details, that would enable structural  linguistics to understand that nothing has any value by itself but only in  the architecture in which any element is entering. But yet, this book is  essential to put together  all the necessary elements. For instance that  could enable us, linguists, to capture the real order of the components of  language not as being horizontal as Jackendoff states page 39, Figure 2.1,  but as being vertical. In other words, and as a conclusion, I will say that  this book gives us some of the essential cornerstones on which we,  linguists, can reorganize the whole theory and include what is known as  semantics, or most of it, into the syntax. And that is a lot more potent  than any interpretative semantics, that has no value whatsoever for the  speaker who does not interpret but generates discourse. Jackendoff looks at  language from the receiver's point of view, forgetting that there is a  speaker BEFORE  a listener. We must start from a generative point of view,  not from an interpretative point of view. The latter can only be second,  hence meaningless for us, linguists. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris  Universitezs IX and II.terpret but generates discourse. Jackendoff looks at  language from the receiver's point of view, forgetting that there is a  speaker BEFORE  a listener. We must start from a generative point of view,  not from an interpretative point of view. The latter can only be second,  hence meaningless for us, linguists. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris  Universitezs IX and II.	2000-08-18
US	50989966	RUXMZGZM6EKZR	0374226369	696397728	Shakespeare's Language	Books	4	15	58	N	Y	Sheakespeare's music	Frank Kermode's book is inspiring. It is rich and gives very interesting  details. But it keeps the basic axiom of Elizabethan studies :  Shakespeare's language is poetry and it is centered on words. The remarks  in this book are totally essential to know, if we want to understand that  the axiom is too short. Shakespeare's language is music.<br /><br />Shakespeare was  bred and fed in the century long musical movement that produced the English  madrigal, at exactly the same time as Monteverdi did it in Italy. This  madrigal is founded on a binary music with a ternary variation. Shakespeare  works on that element and extends it to all the levels of language :  semantics (words), syntax, figures of speech, sounds, alliterations, rhythm,  etc. And he adapts his linguistis music to each play.<br /><br />The second element to  be taken into account is Shakespeare's extreme awareness of numerals and  their symbolical value. Richard III is based on the number 9, the  cacodaemon, and on both specular or mirror symmetry and translative symmetry.  That's one example. If we study Shakespeare's language and plays along that  line we find that the number 2 and its multiples are positive and the  number 3 is always a variation that introduces some imbalance.<br /><br />7 is the  acme of disruption in &#34;As You Like It&#34; and the art is to avoid the seventh  step, the seventh age of man, the seventh level of lying. 8 in the same  play is perfection.<br /><br />In this book, since I'm working on Antony and  Cleopatra, Kermode gives us the key to the strange style of the play,  particularly of Cleopatra's language and some essential scenes, but he does not know. The key is given by the 17 « become » (and other forms) and the  44 « fortune ». 17 = 11 + 6 (6 = 2x3) and 44 = 11 x 4. This appearance of  the number 11, unique to my knowledge in Shakespeare's plays, is a direct  reference to the Last Supper after Judas has left (the number of disciples  left). Hence it is the number of treason, hence of the snakes. Since my  study is due, you bet I am going to work on that element.<br /><br />Conclusion :  Shakespeare's language is music and it is numerically mapped.<br /><br />Dr Jacques  COULATREDEAUof treason, hence of the snakes. Since my  study is due, you bet I am going to work on that element.<br /><br />Conclusion :  Shakespeare's language is music and it is numerically mapped.<br /><br />Dr Jacques  COULATREDEAU	2000-08-18
US	50989966	R2XR9RL6WNMWS6	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Black is beautiful but invisible in white light	Ralph Ellison is a completely new generation of black literature. When I put this book on the syllabus of English Literature at the University of California in 1973, Fall quarter, it was the first time a novel by a black  author was thus proposed to the wide public of the university (English III,  Initiation to English Lieterature). I chose it because it is a book that  goes beyond pure racial concerns and reaches a higher level. It is based on  a « white » metaphor : the White House, a plant producing white paint, in  short a whole metaphor about being whitewashed and brainwashed. This comes  to the concept of invisibility. It appears in a Harlem riot. A black man is  unseen by his white fellow citizens. Either completely, so he has no  existence whatsoever, or partially and he is only seen within a « white »  frame of mind and of existence. To be seen the black man must be white (in  behaviour, in personality, etc), i.e. must conform to a stereotype that  fits in white ideology, which of course justifies any kind of segregation.  But the best of all vision in the book is the confrontation of the hero  with the black general secretary of the Communist Party of theUS. This man  has only one eye and the other eye is made of glass, and the confrontation  is centered on the dropping of this glass eye into a plain drinlking glass.  This man, who is black, who is a revolutionary, who wants things to be  changed (in a stalinist way, maybe, but changed nevertheless) has a  one-eyed vision of the world and he becomes the symbol of all politicians  who can only see what they have decided to see, who can only have, due to  there partisanship, a one-sided, hence biassed, vision. It is an allusion  to the « two »-party system. It is an allusion to the division of Congress  in two bodies : the Senate and the House of Representatives. It is an  allusion to the division between Congress and the White House, to the  division between the Federal Government and the States' governments, to the  division between Congress and the states' legislatures, etc. The US is a  dual system but anyone standing anywhere can only have a one-eyed vision,  or at best several one-eyed visions that are contradictory and hence never  brought together. So the end of the book is a metaphor of roots for the  Blacks:  underground in a cellar, a black coal cellar, entirely illuminated  with white electric light, hundreds of white electric lights to make things  and the hero visible, but in an egocentric cocoon that is centered on the  black man himself. No one can see him. We are of course in 1952, before the  Civil Rights Movement, before Martin Luther King, and many others, before  the Black Nationalist Movement, the Black Culturalist Movement, the Black  Panther Party, etc. These movements are going to make Afro-Americans  visible, especially with the help of the media. These movements are going  to highlight the invisible violence the Blacks were the victims of, and  make this violence regress. But the new strategy, and it is contained in  the book already, of white society will be to divert white violence into  the black community so it became black violence against blacks, a  self-destructing violence meaning that the whites can wash their hands of  it. That is the meaning of the riot that destroys Harlem, but with fire and  violence coming from the blacks themselves : they destroy their own  community because they see it as a symbol of their being rejected and their  being submitted to segregation. In other words it is a reaction without a  dream. There is no dream. The black hero is trapped in his  white-electrically-illuminated black-coal-cellar, entirely closed-up onto  himself with no dream about the future of the American society as a whole,  blacks and whites included, all minorities included. There is no hope at  the end of this book and that is why it is the most hopeful and positive  book on black condition in America, and it is still absolutely valid. Just  ask Angela Davis what it means. She knows, with her Rainbow Alliance, she  knows with her being expelled from the CPUS because she was supporting  Gorbatchev, that is to say the end of the Cold War, that is to say the end  of a one-eyed vision on each side of the divide between the two camps,  though each side was looking at the world from a different eye. And this  book also contains a vision of what may happen, or may be happening : white  America being too ruthless in its vision and domination of a  post-cold-war-world will recreate the divide...Just  ask Angela Davis what it means. She knows, with her Rainbow Alliance, she  knows with her being expelled from the CPUS because she was supporting  Gorbatchev, that is to say the end of the Cold War, that is to say the end  of a one-eyed vision on each side of the divide between the two camps,  though each side was looking at the world from a different eye. And this  book also contains a vision of what may happen, or may be happening : white  America being too ruthless in its vision and domination of a  post-cold-war-world will recreate the divide...	2000-08-14
US	50989966	R1EHS8YVAWP596	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The Bellows of Beauty, Intelligence and Death	Saul Bellow is back and his Ravelstein is great. We have in this book a double story, that of Ravelstein, an intellectual, a philosophy professor from Chicago, or somewhere, who suddenly becomes a millionnaire but dies of  AIDS, and that of Chick, a writer, who has been chosen by Ravelstein to  write a memoir about his life, and who nearly dies of a tropical disease.  Those two stories are like mirrors, constantly entertwined and interlaced,  both faithful to each other and distorting the image of the one or the  other, and at times even the reality of the real persons. It is a quest for  truth and understanding in a world where appearances or often more  important than truth. This gives a very deep vista into human nature. This  book is also about the role of Athens and Jerusalem as the bases of our  vision of the world, of our ideology, of our history and political life.  Plato and Socrates rhyme with Moses and Abraham, and they sing and act the  most beautiful Song of Songs by the most eternal King Solomon. The book  gets us beyond life and death, beyond any limit that could cripple our  thinking that must be freed of all manacles and reins. And yet it is not  finished. The book is also an assessment of the Shoah, of the Jewish people  as the core and the heart of the human soul. How can we explain the attempt  to destroy the Jews when they play that important a role in our  civilization ? Suicide ? Folly ? Craziness ? Or just blood thirst,  cannibalism, the need of blood on our shoes and feet to grow harder and  stronger ? But it is only to wake up later on weak and guilt-ridden. There  is no escape from that blood glut. It has to go through and then to be  expiated, and it has taken more than half a century to just acknowledge the  crime, try to appease it, look for an exit and a total cleansing of the  mind. We still have some venon in our blood and our flesh and our thoughts,  and Saul Bellow is tracking that venon and exposing it to our amazed eyes,  blind-folded eyes, and we have to wake up from that satiated slumber to  maybe become really human. The trip is not yet finished, because the  bacteria is still in our tripe and our guts don't want to reject it. We  displace it at times, but we always come back to the center of that vicious  circle that says we must destroy the Jews to be rid of our incompetence and  lack of longing, because inocence is in longing even if our world is trying  to build itself on the negation of this fundamental feeling and attitude.  If we do not long for something we will never struggle for it and we will  never improve our nature. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX  and IIolded eyes, and we have to wake up from that satiated slumber to  maybe become really human. The trip is not yet finished, because the  bacteria is still in our tripe and our guts don't want to reject it. We  displace it at times, but we always come back to the center of that vicious  circle that says we must destroy the Jews to be rid of our incompetence and  lack of longing, because inocence is in longing even if our world is trying  to build itself on the negation of this fundamental feeling and attitude.  If we do not long for something we will never struggle for it and we will  never improve our nature. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX  and II	2000-07-27
US	50989966	RUYQUI0H8DTKP	0833563505	589915655	The Queen Of The Damned (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	She is a Queen, but I am a human monster.	Anne Rice is a genius and this volume of her Vampire Chronicles is by far the best example of her talent. What is best with her is the way she knows how to travel in time to show the grandiose evolution of humanity from  barbarism and superstition to some kind of improving civilization. But she  knows better than any one else how to mix the myths from the oldest periods  of human history with the basic myths of our modern world, especially  Jewish and Christian myths. She is thus able to rewrite the big tales of  our imagination and to give them a new life. Here the tale of the vampire  is transformed into a social saga both of human talent and of vampiristic  horror. And those vampires become lovable and beautiful, cultured and  refined. They are the acme of human life, be it mainly because they are  death all through and over. Death is the acme of life. And life is the  epitome of death. So we are bound to fall in love with Lestat de Lioncourt  who was born in Auvergne in France et reborn in Paris. But now he is the  new inspiration of the next century somewhere between San Francisco and New  Orleans. Anne Rice is so talented that we can feel Bourbon Street and Rue  Royale living under our eyes, even if we haven't seen these streets or the  French Market or the Caf&eacute; du Monde. They are there in those pages, alive  and thriving with energy and they are glaringly beautiful in the night and  peopled with the most fantastic beings, even if some consider them as  monsters. We would really like to meet those monsters and have an Interview  with the Vampire, just for the kicks of feeling their sharp teeth on our  sensitive necks. If you haven't yet read these Vampire Chronicles, you are  just one or two decades late on the twenty-first century. So hurry up and  catch up on your tardiness. Especially because there must be eight or nine  books in the waiting. Dr Jacques COULARDEA U, Universities of Paris IX and  II.	2000-07-20
US	50989966	R1DXFUG4IHU53Z	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What happens if Hell is Me?	Bret Easton Ellis is probably one of the most powerful heirs of Dreiser and many other American writers of that wool and silk, including the genius-like Thomas Harris. He is one of the greatest in his « genre ». And  what is his genre ? Realism doubled with Hitchcockian suspense and horror.  Psychological gore turning little by little into plain hell. A yuppy has  had problems with his parents, his family, though we will never know what.  His mother has been committed to an institution for years if not decades.  His father is like some kind of never seen never heard Satan. His yuppyish  objectives are to make money, to spend money, to exercise and beef himself  up in  some health club, to rent, watch and bring back video tapes, to  watch TV, to run from one fancy restaurant to another, to dress in the most  fashionable way, in short to keep up appearances. But he is a predator in  his deepest heart and he cannot survive as a predating yuppy if he does not  become a social, sexual and carnal predator. He is Jekill and Hyde, both at  the same time. He is the two sides of the American dream, the nightmare is  just under the surface. The best achievement of this novel is the end.  After being chased through New York by the police he manages to escape  because of the dumb social discrimating spirit of the cops who do not do  the simplest verifications, because they are not able to imagine a yuppy  could have done what has just happened. And the last couple of dozens of  pages will bring the character back into clandestinity, into line, back  behind his brown-nosing and conformistic facade. The psychotic torture deep  in his brain and flesh will go on, dominated, controled, invisible to the  public. We verge here onto schizophrenia. Such a book has to be compared to  Dreiser's American Nightmare, to Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man, to Thomas  Harris's Hannibal or The Silence of the Lambs. It is a masterpiece that  will survive any re-evaluation in the coming decades. No one can understand  what is happening in American society and in the world if they do not read  this milestone fictional vision. The author is a prophetic sign on our road  to human and humane dealing with the evils of life. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,  Universities of Paris IX and II.can understand  what is happening in American society and in the world if they do not read  this milestone fictional vision. The author is a prophetic sign on our road  to human and humane dealing with the evils of life. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,  Universities of Paris IX and II.	2000-07-09
US	50989966	R3VWXSRCWKEP8F	0930794907	348482599	VIOLENCE AND DEFIANCE	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Deranged language	Herbert Lust dared to study schizophrenia or psychosis through the  language of the character. Since he had lost all contact with any possible  distanciation and conceptualisation, the author decided to describe his  deranged life through his deranged language and to writetwo hundred pages  or so without once using the abstract preposition OF. And it works. We feel  as if we were swimming in the deep end of an absolute unreal world that  traps us in its matter and even fabric so that we cannot escape this  slavery, this domination, not even knowing if it is true or false, real or  imagined. Life is nothing but that gluey and sticky paste that wraps us up,  ready that we are to be pushed into some oven to be cooked like a duck in a  crust. It is avision, it is a nightmare, it is a shame the author, who is a  specialist of Modigliani, has not committed another crime of that fictional  type. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II	2000-07-09
US	50989966	R3I1RL4QLQTOKL	0425104338	807841356	Danse Macabre	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When the heart answers the soul	Stephen King's huge success is the result of several parameters.  1- Supernatural elements that are always ancillary elements in the dramatic and realistic structure of the stories.  2- Simple metaphysics : Good  and Evil, deeply founded on a spiritual approach of the Christian religion,  and on a dichotomic vision of humanity as containing both good and evil.  History helps him here to identify those good and evil elements.  3-  Some privileged individuals who are victimized or handicapped (physically,  mentally, by young age, by old age, by their sex, by their social status,  by their intellectualism, by their artistic activities, etc), or both, and  who are the tools to regeneration.  4- This cycle of returning evil and  antagonistic good and evil is never ending, just suspended or contained for  a while, before evil comes back and starts its disruption of the world  again.  5- The whole fiction is always situated in a world that is  directly and realistically connected to our everyday world. Even when we  move to a fantasy world like in The Dark Tower or The Eyes of the Dragon,  or The Talisman, we are still perfectly connected to the present world, to  the present world pushed back into some past, to the present world  destroyed by savagery and repression, to an identifiable past revived into  the present. There is no non-human fantasy world like in Tolkien, or no  futuristic intercosmic world like in Hubbard and others. Even the worlds of  Insomnia or The Regulators are connected to our world. In the first case it  is doctors that are the model of the evil beings (and some reference to the  Erynies of Greek mythology), and in the second case it is the world of  electronic games, toy robots and transformers of old, etc.  What I have  shown with these three books, works of fiction, is that historical events  of dramatic value are used to dramatize the plot : the Shoah, Hitler, the  American Constitution, Jesus's sacrifice and crucifixion, etc... History is  the core of Stephen King's world of fiction and imagination. This book  explains all that and a lot more, indeed. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,  Universities of Paris IX and II.core of Stephen King's world of fiction and imagination. This book  explains all that and a lot more, indeed. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU,  Universities of Paris IX and II.	2000-06-25
US	50989966	RM0FX659KKSE5	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Reinventing American Democracy	This book is the only book by Stephen King that was published in an abridged format first, before being published in full quite later on. The general idea is the destruction of the whole of humanity by a « superflu »  - also called « Captain Trips » - germ produced in and leaked out of some  military research center : biological warfare. This is a common theme in  Stephen King's books or films. We find it in Firestarter, Golden Years, The  Talisman (in collaboration with Peter Straub), and some others still.  Only a few immune people survive, and there Stephen King revisits history.  On one side, in Boulder, Colorado, the good ones, summoned and gathered by  an old Christian black woman, Mother Abigail. The core group is composed of  a deaf-mute man, an old intellectual university professor, a judge, a  working-class Texan, a female student from Maine, a rock-star singer, and a  mentally-retarded man.  On the other side , the Devil, in the shape of  the Dark Man (a common character in Stephen King's books like The Eyes of  the Dragon, The Talisman, The Dark Tower, and some others, and also known  as Flagg in some of these novels), also appearing as a crow, gathers in Las  vegas all types of discontents, criminals and (ethics-deprived) technicians  to revive the nuclear center and the air base near by and then to conquer  the world. He hangs delinquents and those who resist his power (according  to his law) to lampposts at street corners, like Hitler did with working  class activists, trade-unionists and communists, crucifies some others,  like the Romans did, and dismembers some more, like the Inquisition did.  His main assistants are a killer he recuperated in a prison, and a crazy  man, Trashcan Man, whose only pleasure was, has been and is to set things  afire and blow up anything he may think of.  The good ones have to save  the world and can only do so by following Mother Abigail's recommendations  she gets directly from God.  Their first action is to send three spies.  The judge will never reach Las Vegas. A girl will become the mistress of  the ex-prison-inmate, and she will be discovered and will commit suicide.  The mentally-handicapped man will survive and fulfill his mission because  he is invisible to the Dark Man who can only see a moon (the man generally  says M.O.O.N.-MOON to signify his understanding of some instruction or  situation). But these were sent by the political governing committee of  Boulder, duly elected by a general assembly of the brand-new community with  the American flag, the American national anthem and democratic procedures  in agreement with the American Constitution they revive for the occasion.  But the old black lady, Mother Abigail, who had disappeared, unknown of all  others, before that meeting, comes back later on and gives God's orders to  send four (we may think of The Dark Tower, The Drawing of the Three, where  the gunslinger draws three people from the normal world to save the  underground supernatural world : a young boy, a drug-addict and a  physically handicapped black woman in a wheelchair, thus building up a  group of four) of the members of the governing board (the deaf-mute man,  the old university professor, the Texan and the rock-star singer) to Las  Vegas to be sacrificed there by being put to death by the Dark Man, also  known as the Walking Dude, and thus save the world.  The Texan will  break his leg on the way and will be left behind with the old university  professor's dog who will help him survive, thus reducing the pilgrims to  three, a christian symbolical number. Later on the mentally-handicapped man  will come across him and save him from a bad case of flu with the mental  help of the deaf-mute, dead by now, who can speak in his visions. They will  be the only two to come back in the middle of the winter, close to  Christmas. This is both a realistic vision of the birth of Christ and the  resurrection of the saving group.  The others will be caught,  interrogated and tortured, and finally set in place for public  dismemberment. At this very moment the crazy man, Trashcan Man, arrives  with an atom-bomb he has recuperated from the underground arsenal of the  United States in Nevada, on a tractor. At this moment the magic of the Dark  Man, his magical fire, will be redirected by God's hand onto the atom-bomb  ; thus destroying the whole of Las Vegas, the Dark Man disappearing out of  his shoes and clothes. He will find himself later on a quasi-deserted  island, adopted by « savage » natives as some kind of God, thus starting  his come-back.  Then, the end is the possibility (that will only last  as long as it will take the Dark Man to come back) for the good ones to  feel free to go to various parts of the country, to become modern pioneers,  to reconquer the world and reconstruct society nearly from scratch, with a  symbolical birth from the female student in Boulder at a time that looks  like Christmas. Life is possible again.  What is essential here is that  humanity in the midst of the worst catastrophy, goes back to the American  democratic model, but also to the fascistic model. That is a typical case  of the memory Stephen King has of both sides of history, the good one and  the bad one, good and evil.  But we note that humanity is saved by an  old woman, a black woman, a Christian woman. She is the prophet of rebirth.  This speaks to the minds of modern Americans engulfed as they are in long  fights for civil rights (for the Blacks, the Indians or all ethnic  minorities), for liberation of other groups such as women or gay people. We  note that there is no gay element in any book by Stephen King, at least any  obvious element that I have noticed, even if some relations between some  men remind us of Whitman's « comradeship » or « camaraderie » between and  among frontier men. Every element, like in all books by Stephen King, is  symbolical. The new saviours are a deaf-mute man, a physically handicapped  man (like in The Cycle of the Werewolf, also known as Silver Bullet, or in  The Dark Tower, where the physically handicapped person is a black woman)  and a mentally-handicapped man (such characters appear in other books too).  In a way, a handicap is a key to the rebirth, the resurrection, the  renaissance, the redeeming, the epiphany of humanity. Then we have an  intellectual (like in The Dark Half - a writer, Salem's Lot - a writer, Pet  Semetary - a doctor, by far more ambiguous, Misery - a writer, etc), a  rock-star (This is less common, but references to rock music are extremely  common in Stephen King's books, such as Christine), a working-class man (a  common character indeed with the special case of Graveyard Shift), a female  student (the role of girls and women is not marginal at all in Stephen  King's books : The firestarter, Christine, Carrie, Cujo, The Girl Who Loved  Tom Gordon, Rose Madder, Dolores Claiborne, or even Misery). We could also  point out the importance of kids as redeeming characters in these books. We  work here on an alliance of the mind, the arts, industrial work,  intellectual work, thinking. We could go into finer details in that  symbolism. These symbolical elements come back again and again in Stephen  King's novels.  Humanity is always jeopardized by bad evil dark forces  coming from men and women themselves, but led by men. But humanity always  produces the individuals and the forces that can regenerate the world,  though this regeneration is always temporary and requires some kind of  faith, some kind of belief in the supernatural, in some other world, even  if it is only literature. In fact Stephen King systematically explores all  those worlds that lie beyond the limits of normalcy. But this regeneration  is always temporary because humanity produces evil forces that can be  easily manipulated by the Dark Man, « the Devil's pawn » as he is called in  The Stand. The cycle of good and evil is always recurring. Even though LasVegas has been totally destroyed, the Dark Man finds some new affiliates  who will enable him to come back and exploit the darker side of human  beings.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and IIike in The Cycle of the Werewolf, also known as Silver Bullet, or in  The Dark Tower, where the physically handicapped person is a black woman)  and a mentally-handicapped man (such characters appear in other books too).  In a way, a handicap is a key to the rebirth, the resurrection, the  renaissance, the redeeming, the epiphany of humanity. Then we have an  intellectual (like in The Dark Half - a writer, Salem's Lot - a writer, Pet  Semetary - a doctor, by far more ambiguous, Misery - a writer, etc), a  rock-star (This is less common, but references to rock music are extremely  common in Stephen King's books, such as Christine), a working-class man (a  common character indeed with the special case of Graveyard Shift), a female  student (the role of girls and women is not marginal at all in Stephen  King's books : The firestarter, Christine, Carrie, Cujo, The Girl Who Loved  Tom Gordon, Rose Madder, Dolores Claiborne, or even Misery). We could also  point out the importance of kids as redeeming characters in these books. We  work here on an alliance of the mind, the arts, industrial work,  intellectual work, thinking. We could go into finer details in that  symbolism. These symbolical elements come back again and again in Stephen  King's novels.  Humanity is always jeopardized by bad evil dark forces  coming from men and women themselves, but led by men. But humanity always  produces the individuals and the forces that can regenerate the world,  though this regeneration is always temporary and requires some kind of  faith, some kind of belief in the supernatural, in some other world, even  if it is only literature. In fact Stephen King systematically explores all  those worlds that lie beyond the limits of normalcy. But this regeneration  is always temporary because humanity produces evil forces that can be  easily manipulated by the Dark Man,  the Devil's pawn  as he is called in  The Stand. The cycle of good and evil is always recurring. Even though Las  Vegashas been totally destroyed, the Dark Man finds some new affiliates  who will enable him to come back and exploit the darker side of human  beings.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II	2000-06-25
US	50989966	R1U72FVE4NPEZ9	0451197127	734693861	Apt Pupil: Different Seasons	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Crimes against humanity are a catching disease	The situation described in the book and the use of the Shoah are quite different.  A high school student discovers an old man in his neighborhood is an ex-SS who was the commander in the concentration camp of  Patin.  « Bergen-Belsen, January 1943 to June 1943. Auschwitz, June 1943 to  June of 1944, Unterkommandant. Patin... You left Patin just ahead of the  Russians. You got to Buenos Aires.... » (p. 112-113)  The 13-year-old  teenager blackmails the old man into telling him all the gritty details.  But curiosity kills the cat. He is so taken over by the stories that his  school work, that was previously perfect, declines from straight A's to  flunking in the space of six months. He hides the fact from his parents by  falsifying his report cards, then he uses the old man and brings him into  the school picture to save his skin and avoid a direct contact between his  guidance counselor and his family by short-circuiting it. The old man  pretends he is the grandfather of the teenager and that the parents are  going through a difficult phase.  Then the old man forces the teenager  to catch up on his work. The teenager accepts, though reluctantly, and he  passes the year brilliantly. The parents will never know the truth.  Yet, to force the teenager into studying, the old man blackmails him in his  turn by telling him a full record of the « adventure » is in a safe-deposit  box in a bank. The teenager is afraid the old man may die and then the  truth should come out.  Time passes and the teenager little by little  finishes his high school and prepares for college. He distends his relation  with the old man, though he always keeps some fear, because the old man is  frail, he chain-smokes and he drinks heavily.  During those years,  though, the morbid curiosity of the teenager leads him to an even more  morbid experimentation : killing vagrant people in empty places where they  get shelter for the night, such as the old station that is no longer used.  At the same time the recollections of the old man lead him to experimenting  - to save his sleep and balance - the killing of animals and then  alcoholics that he lures to his home with the ambiguous promise of a meal  and a couple of dollars. Then he buries them in his cellar.  One  night, the old man has a heart attack while in the process of burying one  of his victims. He calls the boy, who is supposed to read things to him  because of his bad eyesight, and makes him clean up the mess before calling  an ambulance and covering his urgent visit with a lie about a letter from  Germany that he read, though in German.  But everything goes even  faster. In the hospital, in the next bed, another old man, an ex-prisoner  in Patin, recognizes the old ex-SS commander and reports him to the Israeli  secret services at the Israeli Embassy. The man is thus trapped and forced  to find a way out to avoid trial : he commits suicide.  In spite of the  fact that no secret safe-deposit box in any bank appears, the teenager is  ruined by another incident. The guidance counselor goes to a convention in  the city were the real grandfather lives. Being bored by the conference, he  gets in touch with the old man and visits him. But he finds the grandfather  in a wheelchair, and this grandfather does not look in the least like the  grandfather who visited him some three years before. The publicity around  the death of the ex-SS reveals the true identity of the false grandfather,  both to the guidance counselor and the parents.  Then the teenager is  trapped. And he has no real answer to the questions he may be asked and is  asked. So he goes on a killing spree with a .30-.30. He kills Ed French,  the guidance counselor, then gets to a hideout over the highway where he  ambushes going-by cars and the police will need six hours to take him down.  Here the Shoah is very crudely described in its perversion and it is  treated like a catching disease that infest the curious teenager and leads  him to crime, murders, delinquency and final death, just as much as it  causes the old ex-SS to fall in a relapse and become a criminal again. In  other words, crimes against humanity are never finished. They always find,  in some individuals, a perfect ground to prosper. Humanity will always  commit such crimes because the sheer knowledge of them will lead some  individuals into committing new crimes of the same type.  Crimes  against humanity are an incurable disease. The Shoah is the example and  starting point in the book. Those who will be infested will always find  some « marginal » people to give way to and carry out their crime desire,  their death instinct, their Thanatos, as well as they will also, as some  kind of side effect, develop antisemitism and racism. Vagrant people, or  alcoholics, or homeless people will be their natural victims in our  society.  The film follows the book closely but erases all the gritty  details and reduces the criminal development of the teenager. The film is  thus a lot less explicit and effective. Yet the meaning is the same as in  the book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II.murders, delinquency and final death, just as much as it  causes the old ex-SS to fall in a relapse and become a criminal again. In  other words, crimes against humanity are never finished. They always find,  in some individuals, a perfect ground to prosper. Humanity will always  commit such crimes because the sheer knowledge of them will lead some  individuals into committing new crimes of the same type.  Crimes  against humanity are an incurable disease. The Shoah is the example and  starting point in the book. Those who will be infested will always find  some  marginal  people to give way to and carry out their crime desire,  their death instinct, their Thanatos, as well as they will also, as some  kind of side effect, develop antisemitism and racism. Vagrant people, or  alcoholics, or homeless people will be their natural victims in our  society.  The film follows the book closely but erases all the gritty  details and reduces the criminal development of the teenager. The film is  thus a lot less explicit and effective. Yet the meaning is the same as in  the book. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II.	2000-06-25
US	50989966	R2ZJX4685MXF7O	0571204864	680930270	The Beach	Books	1	4	4	N	N	I am Mourning a Masterpiece	The novel is great. The screenplay is a total disappointment. The author, John Hodge, reduces a monumental sequence and revisiting of « Lord of the Flies », the fascistic regression of a clan of escapists, the criminal  decay of a secret clan into a secret society, a sect of its own, ready to  kill to exorcize evil, that is to say the intruder, John Hodge, will I say,  reduces this masterpiece into a melodramatic regressive sentimentalese  story of some hippy-like vacationers who want to reduce the world to Sun,  Sea, Sky and Sex, the double SS of the egocentric, selfish, selfcentered  and even egotistic youth of today that only dream of surfing a white beach,  sunbathing in the golden sun, dreaming in the blue sky, and enjoying  multiple and transient partners. The escape is gone, the rejection of  consumerism is gone, and every change from the book goes that way. The  essential character of Jed is erased. The Black Keaty plays cricket. Karl  disappears we do not know how. The Thai guards of the marihuana fields  become farmers. And the most ridiculous consumerism is spread in the  shopping list of all the members when Sal and Richard have to go to the  next inhabited island to get rice, and in that list we find some ridiculous  items, just to remind the audience of the necessity of sexual hygiene and  safer sex : tampons and condoms. Only in the very last scene we get some  real dramatic tension, but with the meaning of a betrayed human animal who  has to quit this world and this life not to face her defeat : Sal commits  suicide. Absurd in the logic of the book, where the whole underlying  principle was that social life is nothing but another Vietnam War on a  world scale and that it is unescapable. But Hodge has to destroy this very  tension of this very last scene with the absurd voice-over that says  (Richard speaking) that he took Françoise along and is living in full  happiness with her. The book has been betrayed. We have moved from Alex  Garland to Barbara Cartland (actually  quoted in the screenplay). So this  screenplay does not deserve a garland of praises but a wreath of black  flowers, because we are mourning a masterpiece reduced to an entertaining  love story for empty brains. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris  IX and II.Cartland (actually  quoted in the screenplay). So this  screenplay does not deserve a garland of praises but a wreath of black  flowers, because we are mourning a masterpiece reduced to an entertaining  love story for empty brains. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris  IX and II.	2000-06-13
US	50989966	RQRDPHXEY980G	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	4	4	5	N	N	There is no escape and no future	Alex Garland committed the supreme crime against escapism. He picked up the axiomatic of « Lord of the Flies » and transposed it into our world, on some virgin island in Thailand, with adults who are trying to escape from  our consumer's society to reach paradise on earth with total separation  from the world (not so total after all since they have a boat to go back to  civilization and buy some food, some batteries and some other items of the  type), with the sun, the perfect water of a lagoon, a lot of dope  (marihuana), and some coconut beer. A limited, secret society of its own.  This society is dominated by a woman who exerts absolute power and chess  manipulation over the members, her children in her mind. They work every  morning, either fishing, or gardening, or carpeting, or cooking. Then they  enjoy the sun, the sand, the water and the jungle around them the rest of  the time, and then in the evening and night, their dope and their total  hallucinating trips. One of the founders escapes from there, haunted that  he is by the Vietnam war that does not disappear from his memory, and sends  three new comers to this beach. These three arrive and are accepted and we  delve into the psychology of the narrator, a certain Englishman Richard,  and we discover the transformation with the erasing of time and space, of  any social link with the outside world. They are obliged to share the  island with some Thai people who are illegally growing marihuana in another  part of the island. The description of this going back to the wilderness is  marvellously described and analyzed, though interlaced with mental visits  of the escaped founder who had committed suicide in Bangkok, before giving  Richard the map of the island. And we discover that this society is a  perfectly human society. But, due to some crises (the attack of three  fishermen by a shark, the subsequent death of two of them and mental  derangement of the third one, the menace of the arrival of five more  uninvited - except by Richard in Bangkok - newcomers, their interception by  the military guards of the marihuana fields and their subsequent torturing  and killing), we find out that Sal, the female chief of this escapist  society, is a real fascist, able to order Richard to kill the deranged  fisherman when he escapes, and to do what is nevcessary to stop the new  comers, which means death, though this death will come from the marihuana  guards. She is the mother of this society, some kind of God-Mother who has  the right of life and death over all the members, who forces them to work  hard for survival, etc. The book reveals that normal adults who want to  flee from consumer's society in our modern conditions, without any excuse  since they do this trip voluntarily, that those normal adults regress to a  primitive life style, but also to an absolute didactorship out of fear, an  overprotective spirit concerning their little world, the secrecy of this  world, their total rejection of the outside world, and of course their  deeply ingrained death instinct. And this regression leads them to the  blurring out of the thin limit between life and death, I mean the life and  death of others (for every single one member). And luckily, just before, or  rather in the middle of the killing of Richard by the other members who are  drunk and stoned, Richard, the two friends he came with, another friend he  made on this island and an older and mysterious friend of his, will manage  to escape before being caught up in absolute horror, and death. Their is no  escape from our world that does not lead to the primitive mentality of the  clan and the absolute dependence the clan requires from any member and the  killing by all members of those who may not be absolutely in line with that  collective crushing of individual minds. This book is a masterpiece that  goes beyond « Lord of the Flies », because it deals with willing adults,  with a voluntary escape, and also with the colonial and imperialistic  spirit that lies behind : they capture a piece of territory in Thailand and  make it their own. This is emphasized by the constant allusions to Vietnam,  brought into the psychology of Richard by the dead escapee's ghost who gave  him the map, because for him this beach is Saigon just before the fall in  1975. A must for all those who think that escape is possble and desirable.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II.nd imperialistic  spirit that lies behind : they capture a piece of territory in Thailand and  make it their own. This is emphasized by the constant allusions to Vietnam,  brought into the psychology of Richard by the dead escapee's ghost who gave  him the map, because for him this beach is Saigon just before the fall in  1975. A must for all those who think that escape is possble and desirable.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris IX and II.	2000-06-12
US	50989966	R36YX7ACNME992	0786884851	103886422	Shakespeare in Love: A Screenplay	Books	5	9	9	N	N	LOVE IS A STORM OF WORDS AND THUNDER	Marc Norman and Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay of Shakespeare in Love. The film is marvellous and so powerful that no one can resist that love drama. The story of Romeo and Juliet is itself so frightfully emotional  that no one can resist the charm of the tragedy and the pain of the love  story. So many artists, in so many genres and arts, have tried themselves  at adapting this story, this play, this tragedy to their stages or screens  or canvasses, and all have been inspired so deeply by Shakespeare's story  that Romeo and Juliet have become a true galaxy of masterpieces and stars.  The latest ever produced is Shakespeare in Love and the screenplay is  richer, more poignant and freer than the images of the film. The screenplay  is enriched with stage directions that are so brilliant, so precious that  the text, the dialogue, what is going to become the words of the actors, is  enhanced and beautified by them. After a while we don't even know what is  the gem and what is the golden bed that carries the gem. The screenplay is  by itself a work of art, a masterpiece, and the film, if you watch it again  afterwards, finds tremendous new meanings and undeemable finesse in the  recollections you may have kept of all those lines that are not said, that  are not shown, that are at best translated into images, settings, flying  visual impressions that the words of the stage directions anchor in your  memory, your heart and your brain with delicate tendrils that cannot break  anymore. Any lover of Shakespeare, any lover of literature, any lover of  love dramas and hate tragedies must read that screenplay to see how  laughter and tears can intermingle in an unbreakable alliance. Dr Jacques  COULARDEAU, Universities of Paris, IX and II.	2000-05-23
US	50989966	R1SR35QAHG7QOW	0312252536	379322859	Plan B: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Help?... Help yourself, with a little help from your friends	Jonathan Tropper e-mailed me a message some months ago, after reading some critique of mine and told me I would like his book. I got it, after a while. And I read it between two writing assignments, and I loved it. First it starts slowly, a little bit messy, but when the speed catches up then  momentum follows. It is full of humor, absolutely bracing about humanity.  Five friends from high school and college all turn thirty the same year and  all have to reexamine their lives to find their real perspectives. One is  an actor in Hollywood and is on drugs. He is the pretext for the others to  come together : they want to help him out of drugs, but in fact they all  have second motivations, more personal and interested. So there they go.  They save him and they save every one of themselves.  But the book is a lot  more interesting than just this emotional and pathetic situation. It is a  deep questioning of turning thirty in our society today for the post  baby-boom generation, also for the post-Vietnam war generation. They don't  seem to have any kind of great and humane cause to support. They seem to be  totally  penned up in their present, in their world. No echo from the  outside world, from the non-American world. And can  college-and-more-educated people find a motivation in life that can guide  them up to death ? Strange enough it is to serve themselves by serving  others. To serve those you love, first and for all, even if you endanger  your own present by doing so. To serve the children they teach (two of them  turn teachers at that fair age of thirty). To serve others by creating  myths, and romance, and adventure, and action, and fiction, be they high on  books or articles or films. To serve others by being the best doctor and  surgeon available at any time to cure them, heal them, clean them, etc.  And there is a last level which is romantic more than anything else : to go  away from the big apple and to the mountains, back to nature. The point of  view of the narrator in the book, Ben, prevents any deep exploration of the  fantasms and hallucinations our generations cannot live without. Tropper is  not a Stephen King. But he does not want to be. If he had been he would  have told the story from the drug-addict's point of view, which he  carefully avoided. So the book is humorous, funny, thrilling, caustic even,  but intimate, private, sentimental without being sentimentalese,  heart-warming and mind-catching.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities  IX and IIthe narrator in the book, Ben, prevents any deep exploration of the  fantasms and hallucinations our generations cannot live without. Tropper is  not a Stephen King. But he does not want to be. If he had been he would  have told the story from the drug-addict's point of view, which he  carefully avoided. So the book is humorous, funny, thrilling, caustic even,  but intimate, private, sentimental without being sentimentalese,  heart-warming and mind-catching.  Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities  IX and II	2000-05-02
US	50989966	R3GDNNV5EQ05RO	0684857707	150756681	American By Blood: A Novel	Books	4	6	16	N	N	No war is heroic	The style is purely schizophrenic and psychotic. A rare achievement. And it reaches the level of poetry. The US Army is trapped by Custer who tries  to force their hand into killing all Indians. This is a genocide. The Blue  soldiers and their generals are trapped several times by their own Indian  scouts who are worse than what we can imagine. They do not hesitate to  scalp living Indians. The US  Scouts provide the main point of view and  hence provide a certain distanciation from those generals and colonels.  They are able to depict their bloodthirst, their desire for vengeance,  their alcoholism, which is the only way for them to go through the  experience. The Indians will be killed, raped, in all possible ways, no  matter whether they are warriors, women, men, children, babies, or old  people. There is no clean war, no heroic war, no acceptable war. Man  regresses into animality, into barbaric survival. The scouts try to survive  in this hostile environment by reading the Bible, singing, and remeniscing.  And a nation will have to grow on that heritage, transmitting their  insanity over several generations. Transmitting the desire to kill to  survive to forthcoming generations. How can we be surprised, now the US  have no wars on their hands, if young people get into sprees of killing?  They can't kill Indians anymore. They can't lynch AfroAmericans anymore.  They can't gut Vietnamese anymore. So what will they kill? How will their  survival instinct survive and get satisfied?  All violence in the US comes  from there. The nation was created in survival violence and this lives  again and again in younger modern generations. What a beautiful playground  when a school is wide open to guns, when a mall is wide open to rampage,  when a church is wide open to insanity!  Huebner gives us some rare insight  in this dark violent side of the American personality. Dr Jacques  COULARDEAU, Paris Universities IX and II	2000-04-19
US	50989966	R1S9YCOEULEFN2	067103264X	855119608	Storm of the Century: An Original Screenplay	Books	5	0	1	N	N	No escape possible from the dark side of man	This story is a development rarely reached of the Dark Man Legend. Here he is arriving on an island in the heart of a phenomenal storm, and he starts  killing and blackmailing everyone into selecting a male child that he will  take away as his apprentice and successor. And he succeeds and goes away  with the child of his choice, because the stones, white and black were  rigged of course.  The book reveals, not the horrible nature of this new  embodiment of Randall Flagg, but the unfathomable dark nature of humanity.  When the dead line comes and the choice narrows to surviving or dying, man  is ready to choose any solution that will enable him to survive, I mean any  individual will choose any solution that will save him or her, even if it  is selling his/her own mother to the devil. And King pushes a little  further by showing how such a choice leads the human group that has  accepted it into total, irreversible and absolute decay. That is what  humanity is.  The question that emerges but has never been asked and will  probably never be asked is: how could that dark side not triumph, be it in  Kosovo, be it in Chechenya, be it in Indonesia or East-Timor, etc? I am  afraid there is no how, no way out of this dark fate. At least in King's  vision. There is no answer to the question that will not be asked. Dr  Jacques COULARDEAU, Paris Universities IX and II	2000-04-18
US	50989966	R1ISTNIUSQ3333	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	0	5	N	N	The devil definitely is an angel	This book is a follow-up sequence of the famous &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot;, and yet it is a book all by itself. It does not pick up the thread of the story where it stopped in the previous book.  Here the author shows a real serial killer who plans, elaborate and creates links between  his crimes, his cannibalistic desire and a culture that goes back to the  Middle Ages, a time where what he does alone was standard forms of justice.  This historical perspective gives the crime an unbearable human dimension.  The monster is nothing but a survivor, and yet, is he really the only  survivor of those dark and brutal ages?  He also shows how some people who  have a lot of money and know how to buy some support in political and  judicial circles, can do even worse crimes without having any problems.  Hence the vengeance scheme against Hannibal, Doctor Lecter. And this plan  shows how devilish a society founded on money can become. Because if you  can do such ignoble acts to avenge yourself against such a criminal, what  can you do to satisfy your desires with un-important people like illegal  immigrants who cannot be claimed by anyone?  It reveals  that Hannibal Doctor Lecter only attacks people who are somewhere criminals  themselves, people who are also trying to attack him. The book also gives  some vista in the past of Dr Lecter, hence a vision of some kind of line of  causation of his personality, and there again we find the ugliness of our  society that refuses no crime to impose a rule, a political system, a  dictatorship,etc. War, totalitarianism, dictatorship are human crimes that  are, unluckily, so far, accepted as normal historical events and twists  by  everyone. It is easier to declare Hitler crazy than to denounce the social,  political and economic system that produced him and that covered his crimes  for decades. It took fifty years for the Catholic Church to officially  apologize for its passive support to the Shoah. All that is behind the  book, and the crimes of Hannibal in Italy are systematically a rerun of  justice acts of the Renaissance.  Where is the devil? Where is the angel?  Where is God? We do not know at all. Evil is in man, or rather is  encouraged in man by society and history.  Here Thomas reaches a real  philosophical level and goes beyond plain voyeurism. And what's more,  Doctor Lecter loves poetry (Dante) and music, classical music. While people  were gutted and hanged and tortured by politicians and the Chruch in Italy,  the most beautiful and sophisticated music was composed by some of the  finest musicians of all times. What a soul-stirring reality. Dr Jacques  COULARDEAU, Paris universities IX and II, and the crimes of Hannibal in Italy are systematically a rerun of  justice acts of the Renaissance.  Where is the devil? Where is the angel?  Where is God? We do not know at all. Evil is in man, or rather is  encouraged in man by society and history.  Here Thomas reaches a real  philosophical level and goes beyond plain voyeurism. And what's more,  Doctor Lecter loves poetry (Dante) and music, classical music. While people  were gutted and hanged and tortured by politicians and the Chruch in Italy,  the most beautiful and sophisticated music was composed by some of the  finest musicians of all times. What a soul-stirring reality. Dr Jacques  COULARDEAU, Paris universities IX and II	2000-04-12
US	50989966	R180CCWXJH6IAF	0380727668	158966338	Live from Death Row	Books	5	8	24	N	Y	Faces, loving, warm and dark, rushing,, racing, roaring past	In this collection of essays and columns, Mumia brings us backinto reality. It is necessary for our mental survival to remember thatthis world, and the US is part of it, even the acme of it, is a violent and brutal world. It is necessary to remember that some social or ethnic or cultural groups in any supposed democracy of the world is considered as inferior, dangerous, and hence and thus rejected into oblivion. It is necessary to remember that any group of men, wommen and children that is thus rejected into non-existence and invisibility (as Ralph Ellison would say) has the instinct to remind themselves to the consciousness of the rejectors, of the segregationists, of the apartheid-advocates.  Hence it is necessary to remember that in the US a war is going on against the black community when they want to be equal, free and treated with justice.  Mumia just does that and we are just a little bit saner and wiser after reading this book.  The Afro-American community in the US, but some other groups too, are submitted to crack-war, just like Indians were submitted to liquor-war. By spreading this poison in the Black community, the US at large, responsible for the welfare of all their citizens, spread violence, gang wars and crime and thus justify repression.  But the main victims of that repression are those who denounce this war gainst the Afro-American community.  There is another dimension in this book, even if it is not dominant. The Blacks must take their own business, including security, into their own hands, and thus &quot;militance&quot; for the freedom, equality and security of the Black community has to increase to conquer those three objectives against the system.  And Mumia finds fantastic roots in people like Eldridge Cleaver, Huey P. Newton, Malcolm X, MOVE, PUSH and many others. At the same time he is critical of Martin Luther King's limits (his non-violence that can never eradicate that kind of genocidal violence from within a society); Jesse Jackson's cult of appearances to be respected because the looks are right, the hair is combed, the clothes are clean, etc; all religion's hypocrisy when they replace fight for justice with prayers for justice, forgetting that Jesus was the first and foremost victim of injustice, of the death penalty, just like Moses and the enslaved jews, just like Daniel in the lions' pit, just like so many others. We must cast the seven scourges of Egypt onto the capitalistic world.  One regret, one unsatisfied desire: women are unluckily more or less essentially absent from those essays. A name here and there, but nothing really consistant. I deem this male-dominance in the book is due to a very long sojourn in Death Row, only with men.  Yes there are some women out there fighting their way, and their community's way through violence and injustice.  An inspiring book that makes you feel so good.  Have you ever been submitted to the famous body-cavity strip search? You then discover how our capitalistic societies want the underlayers of society to be and behave: bend over and open all your cavities. No obscenity implied, just reference to the obscenity of the system.  The Jews, when arriving in Auschwitz were submitted to the very same treatment, before being poisoned and burnt (though burnt after their bodies had been used to make blankets from their hairs and soap from their fat). The ashes were then transformed into fertilizers.  Humanity has always been ugly, but the hypocrisy of some rulers of our democratic world has no limits, not even the sky, and they seize both day and night to impose their rule or rules. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU Paris Universities IX and IIcult of appearances to be respected because the looks are right, the hair is combed, the clothes are clean, etc; all religion's hypocrisy when they replace fight for justice with prayers for justice, forgetting that Jesus was the first and foremost victim of injustice, of the death penalty, just like Moses and the enslaved jews, just like Daniel in the lions' pit, just like so many others. We must cast the seven scourges of Egypt onto the capitalistic world.  One regret, one unsatisfied desire: women are unluckily more or less essentially absent from those essays. A name here and there, but nothing really consistant. I deem this male-dominance in the book is due to a very long sojourn in Death Row, only with men.  Yes there are some women out there fighting their way, and their community's way through violence and injustice.  An inspiring book that makes you feel so good.  Have you ever been submitted to the famous body-cavity strip search? You then discover how our capitalistic societies want the underlayers of society to be and behave: bend over and open all your cavities. No obscenity implied, just reference to the obscenity of the system.  The Jews, when arriving in Auschwitz were submitted to the very same treatment, before being poisoned and burnt (though burnt after their bodies had been used to make blankets from their hairs and soap from their fat). The ashes were then transformed into fertilizers.  Humanity has always been ugly, but the hypocrisy of some rulers of our democratic world has no limits, not even the sky, and they seize both day and night to impose their rule or rules. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU Paris Universities IX and II	2000-04-05
US	50989966	R3HB16092SGL6B	0874860865	464188247	Death Blossoms: Reflections from a Prisoner of Conscience	Books	5	22	34	N	Y	Before the grave closes	Mumia Abu-Jamal gives us here a short but particularly pungent and stringent book. We find in those pages a sensitive man, a resolute human being, a deep believer in life, an optimist about the future and humanity,  and yet a realist about the present, the US and American justice. What's  new about his approach is that it blends poetry and facts so well that the  poetry is the heart of the facts. And we definitely will keep in mind his  main argument, or what I consider as such: how can  anyone invoke the  Christian God to support the most unhumane treatment of some men or women  or even children, when Jesus, the Son of God, was treated exactly the same  way. How dare they, the self-declared-righteous fake Christians submit any  human being to what is the very basis of their own supposed and  self-asserted religion? One answer: religion is a sunday entertainment and  distraction (they are deranged) for them, and they are basically  hypocritical. One reference is missing in the book: social darwinism. The  Death Row of any prison in the US or in the world, is nothing but the  elimination device of those who are not the fittest, that is to say who are  not part of the dominant group of their societies. Dr Jacques COULARDEAU  Universit&eacute; of Paris IX and II	2000-04-02
US	50989966	R3KNUNYQBXV90A	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The archdevil	PoliticaL fiction is a difficult art. This book is a page-turner. It is an eye-gluer. You have to go on and finish it as fast as possible. But when you come to the end, you find out that nothing has really been achieved.  The secret son of Stalin is a myth. The impossibility for the Russians to  learn democracy is a point of view, hence subjective. In the end, the book  looks like a perfect justification of the emergence of a new dictator as  being the only solution for Russia. Putin is behind the door. I remain  unsatisfied with this vision , this fate and even fatal reduction of  history. Russia, like any other country, has no hope, no future in a  dictatorship, no matter how democratic it may dress. The characters are  simple-minded, whereas in a democracy a person can only survive if this  person is double-minded at least. In the end the vision is totally closed  on any future and hope. In the end the vision is fatalistic and lethal for  democracy itself. Of course it is a novel. But the use of real elements,  real names, real politicians and institutions gives a stamp of truthfulness  to what is nothing but an ideological and subjective vision. In other words  it gives a vision of the Russians as unable to get up to the twentieth or  even twenty-first century. This is discriminatory if not fundamentally  &quot;racist&quot;. The Russians will invent their democracy, even if a  little dictator, without any depth, has to be the go-between of the future.  This little dictator will enable the Russians to realise what democracy is  and to get rid of the old vision, so perfectly represented in the Russian  Communist Party that refuses to follow any trend, to listen to the future.  Jacques COULARDEAU	2000-03-25
US	50989966	R1CLPWEH3Z4ZGG	0684846608	893598378	Fountain Society: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Patchwork of greatness	This &quot;Fountain Society&quot; is extremely entertaining. You just go on reading in the most compulsive way. You cannot stop. You cannot slow down. It is perfect. But, it is a patchwork of ideas, situations and themes that come from all around the horror scene, particularly Stephen King. We  think, and have to think, of &quot;Firestarter&quot;. But the characters  are too simple, too at times skeletal. They lack depth. They are never in  anyway ambiguous. They are always one-sided. If they happen to have two  sides, they just shift from one to the other. There is no interlacing,  hence no dialectical contradiction in them. They are monsters up to a point  X and then they become heroes, right through to their sacrifice.  Ethically  the book has a great subject, but it is absolutely naive and unrealistic to  believe that two women and one man will be able to defeat the whole  military system of the US, even with the help of a computer whizzkid, and  Fidel Castro.  King has always a better ending: evil always survives. So we  must say the book is a pageturner, but we know from the very start what is  going to happen in the next ten pages and some of the situations are so  crazy that they are unbelievable. And they never make us believe in the  unbelievable. A DC3 against an F15 is just as silly as an ant against an  elephant, a speck of dust against the sun itself.  It is a good  entertainment but it is not credible. And, in the end, we are not enriched  with any hope, nor any fear. We are just finished with the book that we can  put down never to come back to it. A second reading would not reveal  details that are not there. And there are too many allusions to books we  know that we prefer reading those again because of their originality. No  one will be better than Mary Shelley and her &quot;Frankenstein&quot;. Dr  Jacques COULARDEAU	2000-03-14
US	50989966	R3SWDICIMFQD7H	0684870061	399722680	The Green Mile: The Screenplay	Books	5	10	13	N	N	There is an angel somewhere!	I discovered the first episodes of The Green Mile in Biloxi, Mississippi, and the last ones in France. I read them. I was moved by strong emotions, practically to tears, and yet I remained unsatisfied. I reread it when it  came out in one volume, and I had the same sensation of frustration. The  book, the story had two lines and the unity was not clear, the message was  not obvious and it seemed to be that there is always a devil somewhere to  torture, at times to death, the righteous and the innocent. The two time  lines were not really reinforcing each other. The bad nurse of the old  people's home was not a real continuation of Percy, and Percy did not have  and could not have, does not have and cannot have a continuation. Evil in  man is repetitive, but in no way continuing, developing, getting any kind  of amplification with time.  I have just been listening to a tape about the  psychiatric hospitals of the old days (up to the mid 70s in France), and  the doctors, the nurses, and even the patients, those who dedicated their  whole life to get rid of that institution, compared these asylums to  concentration camps and demonstrated how the inmates were reduced to  animals, and yet resisting, how the rations (during World War II) where  starvation rations meant to slowly kill the inmates by starving them.  Doctor Lucien Bonnaf&eacute;, MD, cannot be in any way stopped in his explanation  of this alienation, of this reduction of men to vegetables, especially with  the chemical straight jacket. Hitler did not invent concentration camps,  and he did not invent eugenics, the cleansing of society of their misfits.  He just systematised, industrialised it. But, But,  BUT, I finally got to  the screenplay of The Green Mile by Frank Darabont. He got that second time  line out. He recentered the whole story on Paul, the only one Paul that  crosses time. And then the light came out so strong that I was not moved  any more, but literally blinded into ever stronger and never before  experienced emotions, into unquenchable tears, tears that were a salvation,  a redemption, an epiphany that would not ever satisfy and quench my thirst  for optimistic humanism.  This human world contains angels that can  transform evil into good, and it is John Coffey, a black man. He has done  that for a very long time, till the one day he gets trapped by his naivete  and simplemindedness, because angels are naive, simpleminded and maybe  slightly retarded, since then cannot conceive evil. When one does only good  things and can only bring good news to the world, he is totally isolated,  rejected, and thus he becomes the prey of all evil beings who will abuse  him and trampled him down. And yet he is not completely trapped, because he  comes to the point when he wants to go, to leave this world, where he can  only love and be loved by fireflies. So he is happy when he gets trapped,  relieved of this enormous responsibility of making the world better, of  killing or repairing evil. Even if it means Death Row. But, before leaving,  he gives his good nature to some other beings, even if he cannot give them  his powers. Here it is a mouse, Mr Jingles, and a man, Paul. And his gift  takes the form of a very long life. The very long life of telling the  truth, the truth of God, the truth that killing is ugly, no matter whether  it is criminal or judicial. Only life is beautiful, and the story of life  has to be told forever and ever, to push death away, even if it is Death  Row. This life story has to be told over and over again, just like a mouse  will play with a spool forever. And thus, Darabont gets us to a universal  lesson, to a unique and eternal metaphor. The writer, the storyteller is  forever the one who will bring life to earth, real life, the life of  justice, of beauty, of emotions, of truth, of entertainment, of happiness.  The storyteller is God himself, or at least his angel, because he nourishes  our souls with the desire to know a better world.When are we ever going to  have the film, the video, so that we can be moved to frantic tears by the  images that will demultiply the screenplay into a real piece of human  paradise, in our dreams, in our night, in our daydream, in our sunshine of  hope ?re we ever going to  have the film, the video, so that we can be moved to frantic tears by the  images that will demultiply the screenplay into a real piece of human  paradise, in our dreams, in our night, in our daydream, in our sunshine of  hope ?	2000-02-19
US	50989966	R1CL1YMED437EG	0060193654	146235403	One of the Guys	Books	4	20	30	N	N	EVERYDAY SATANIC PERVERSION	Robert Young has just published his first novel, One of the Guys. An amazing book. He tackles two American institutions and shows that they both are Satan incarnate. The first one is pornography. It has its adult  bookstores, with cubicles and glory holes. It has its prostitution circuits  and routes, where a woman, or a man, is nothing but either a piece of meat,  or a canibalistic customer. The tone of the author is there harsh, brutal,  ruthless, and he shows how the money of the customers creates the  customized goods those customers want and consume. Our sexual consumer's  society reduces myriads of women and men, boys and girls to slavery, a  degrading, alienating and neurotic slavery. A slavery of the body and of  the mind to the most twisted phantasms of money-loaded customers, the form  of the prostitution depending only on the amount of money the customer has  and on the amount of money the prostitute of hustler can ambition to get.  The second institution is essentially the US Navy, but also the US Armed  Forces. There the book becomes a satire and is full of humour and irony,  even if the subject is serious. He shows how these Armed Forces are divided  in hostile and jealous corps. He shows how these Armed Forces are unfit for  battle. He shows how these Armed Forces are totally based on alienating the  free will of the soldiers or sailors in order for the officers to dominate  them and manipulate them into doing what they are expected to do and do not  need to understand. To boost up the morale of the troops, those officers  use methods that are un-human, and that represent some kind of cattle  herding policy, reducing soldiers and sailors to nothing but animals that  are sent to the slaughterhouse of a battle, filled with hatred, alcohol,  cheap sex and a little bit of fake religion. What's more he shows how the  whole network of US military bases in the world are nothing but a cobweb  where young girls and boys are trapped by the dollar spiders for the only  benefit of the soldiers, the sailors, and their officers. It is by  providing these with that big perambulating brothel that US Armed Forces  are able to perform their supposedly patriotic and humanistic duties. The  hero is the constant proof of that absurdity of a system that creates evil  in the name of good, though that good is nothing but the interests of a few  powerful people who pull the strings, be they politicians or anyone who has  some interest in providing those Armed Forces with goods, including the  rotten dictators here and there who accept a village to be destroyed by a  lost shell in maneuvers, provided a fair number of millions of dollars can  fatten their bank accounts here and there in some paradise that is not lost  at all, even if it is prospering on the hell in which millions of people  are forced to live. So, in front of such a powerful book, we can forget  about the fact that Miles, the hero, has officially died in a fire at the  beginning of the book and reappears - ressuscitates - at the end of the  book, with no question asked.e only  benefit of the soldiers, the sailors, and their officers. It is by  providing these with that big perambulating brothel that US Armed Forces  are able to perform their supposedly patriotic and humanistic duties. The  hero is the constant proof of that absurdity of a system that creates evil  in the name of good, though that good is nothing but the interests of a few  powerful people who pull the strings, be they politicians or anyone who has  some interest in providing those Armed Forces with goods, including the  rotten dictators here and there who accept a village to be destroyed by a  lost shell in maneuvers, provided a fair number of millions of dollars can  fatten their bank accounts here and there in some paradise that is not lost  at all, even if it is prospering on the hell in which millions of people  are forced to live. So, in front of such a powerful book, we can forget  about the fact that Miles, the hero, has officially died in a fire at the  beginning of the book and reappears - ressuscitates - at the end of the  book, with no question asked.	2000-02-12
US	50989966	R1B10T6755DGX	1581128614	554824059	BJ: A Supernatural Horror Story	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	The devil is always there	I loved that book because it is a very pertinent and relevant vision of the Black world nowadays, thirty years after the ghetto uprisings and twenty years after the Black Panthers. It is centered on women and that is  good, because these women are not bitter and revengeful against some male  world. And I love the way the Christian supernatural element came into the  picture halfway between fantastique or horror stories, and any religious  righteous blabla. Satan is a real being because he comes from the deepest  layers of our evil side. And that evil side of ours is a lot darker than  anyone can ever imagine, especially when it takes the bright color of  righteous bigotry.	1999-12-03
US	50989966	R36TN0B5T2GK6L	0684867621	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon : A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	At last, Stephen King gets out of the woods.	This book, entirely centered on a young girl, shows how such a girl can be creative enough, even in her deepest fears, to find the energy necessary to her survival in a very disturbing situation. Stephen King, for once, does  not use any kind of fantastique special effects to get through with the  story. And the girl shows how a model is used by her to sustain and nourish  her energy to fight and win. And that model is a young baseball champion (a  man mind you) with absolutely no open sexual innuendo, even if of course we  can analyze the book at a deeper level. Yet this model is too simple in a  way because it is too directly connected to her father. He is both a  surrogate older brother and a link to her divorced father. That is a little  simple. Yet, the psychology and the logic of the character is quite  surprising. And it is a moving book too.	1999-07-19
