US	50985587	R215MHGUHS47EA	1583141340	992274170	Change of Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Wonderful Story	Change of Heart is Marcia King Gamble's sixth full contemporary romance book.<br />The author brings to us a beautiful written story about the only black skier on the U.S. Olympic team who suffers from a serious accident on the slopes, this hero is Beaumont Hill who is referred to as &quot;Beau&quot; in the story. Beau is matched with Shayna DaCosta, as his heroine, who is a former gymnast now a physical therapist assigned to his case.<BR>Now that is the preliminaries of this story. Now, let me express my thoughts on the overall book.<br />Most readers of romance books look for a certain quality when reading. It is very important that it includes certain components to make the well investment worth our while, because for those of us like myself who are serious avid readers, spending money on books that are not up to par, so we say is not worth it to us.<br />Well, this book is well worth the investment. Why? Let me list the reasons.<br />The book has 282 pages in 25 chapters. Since the author has to cover quite a bit of territory in 282 pages, the story is very fast-paced, like one of those All-Nighters.<br />The author does not make us wait half way through the book before she has the hero and the heroine meet for the first time. Beau and Shayna meet in Chapter 2, page 29 to be exact.<br />The book offers us a good sense of humor and lots of laughter. There is a great deal of dialogue that occurs between the hero and the heroine. The secondary characters presented in this story add seasoning and flavor to the story that does not take away the focus of Beau and Shayna.<br />There are two sub-plots going on with the developing relationship of Beau and Shayna but never do they over-play the major storyline. As a matter of fact, these sub-plots presented, allow both Shayna and Beau to interact more.<br />Now in any romance story, there has to be some intimacy. This book does not fall short of the sizzling love scenes, which are very powerful.<br />I strongly recommendthis book, it is a well worth investment, especially to those who are seious avid readers of romance.<br />While you're visiting this site, check out some of the other novels and short story collections by this author. <br />There is a male secondary character who is an attorney, who I hope is considered for a book, cause I liked his role in this story.<br />Thanks Marcia for a wonderful story with Beau and Shayna!!	2001-10-10
US	50985587	R3DLJW8KRTQ3IQ	1583142428	298924285	This Time Forever (Arabesque)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Loved It!	Our last contact we had with Kerry Everett was in her sister's story, \\"The Keys To My Heart\\" in the anthology A VERY SPECIAL LOVE.<br />Janice Sims now brings us This Time Forever, featuring as the heroine, Kerry Everett, Police Chief of Damascus, Florida; and the hero, Maceo \\"Mac\\" Kent, FBI agent and ex-Marine Drill Sgt.<br />PAST: Kerry and Mac have a past together from their days as marines. When they last saw each other, both made a decision to go pursue their own careers. But both leaving with broken hearts.<br />PRESENT: Kerry has a murder incident that occurs in Damascus. There are similiar signs about this murder that resembles an FBI case that brings Mac to Florida. Now it's been ten (10) years since they last saw one another. They meet once again, on page 80 to be exact. You will begin to feel throughout the story that love has not died between Kerry and Mac.<br />COMMENTS: I always look for certain things as I begin reading a romance book. For example, <br />(1) The pace of the story, how easily it flows for me personally. I don't want a book I have to keep taking deep breaths as to whether I have patience to keep reading it or throw it across the room. <br />(2) Now this is important to me, I want the author to at least introduce the hero and heroine within the first 100 pages of the story. I should not have to wait for over half of the book for them to make some kind of contact. I also want the plot to include the heroine and hero utilizing at least 60% of the book.<br />(3) The overall plot has to be interesting enough for me to find it difficult to put the book down so I can get some sleep at night.<br />Summary: Janice Sims has presented the answers to all my probing questions. The pace of the story itself was an easy flow that I kept turning the pages. It was like one of those all-nighter books that you want to stretch out for another day, so you can enjoy longer. She has the heroine and hero being together at least 60% of the book, which made me very happy!<br />I enjoy those stories where the hero and heroine are reuniting. In this story, the author does not allow the heroine to be angry with the hero about the past to the point you want to slap her for whining throughtout most of the entire book before they make some connection. You don't find that in this book, I mean Kerry and Mac actually communicate with one another and not only discuss the past and its affects but the present.<br />For those of us who were fortunate to get a peek at Kerry in her sister's story, Kerry is not short on words. So I like her type of personality. Kerry and Mac knew each other so well, you could actually visualize seeing this couple.<br />So in concluding my review here, I strongly recommend that you read this wonderful story. You won't be disappointed and your money will be wisely spent.<br />I also encourage you to check out her other published books:<BR>Affair of the Heart, All The Right Reasons, Out of the Blue, For Keeps, A Bittersweet Love, A Second Chance At Love. <br />Her short stories in Anthology Collections:<BR>\\"To Love Again\\" from Love Letters<BR>\\"The Keys To My Heart\\" from A Very Special Love (Kianna Everett's story)	2001-10-01
US	50985587	R34WLNM6WOJ8BM	0312978839	908403901	A Family Reunion	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful	This is Brenda Jackson's debut book to mainstream fiction. She follows behind some of the great romance writers, such as Donna Hill and Francis Ray who have embarked on the arena of mainstream fiction.<BR>Brenda seems to have choosen something that is quite fitting for her, and that is a book about &quot;Family&quot;. Yes, this debut book called A Family Reunion revolves around The Bennett Family. I think most of us who have ever attended a family reunion or more or less apart of a family period will be able to relate to this book. You know in any given family there always seems to be secrets and revelations that occur during family crises. Well this book does not fall short of that, it has all those components and even a few surprises and moments of tears too!<BR>In any book you read there are major characters to a story, well this one is no different: There's Poppa Ethan, the grandfather, and four cousins who of course grew up together, Taye, Michael, Alexia and Rae'jean. Now there are many supporting characters that add to this story which of course makes it an outstanding book to read.<BR>After many years from Grandma Bennett passing, Poppa Ethan wants to have this family reunion, which he allows his cousin to plan and get it all together. Now, Poppa Ethan is close to 90 years old but his memory is definetly in tack and he is not short on his stern words either!! What I found so enjoying about this book, I could relate to it and actually recognized some of my own family members. So is this a book you can relate to? Yes. Is this a book that is an easy read that will keep you up all night? Yes. Do I recommend this a book to read? Yes!!! Does it have sizzling love scenes? Oh, my, my...yes it does!!!<BR>Now, some may think that it is quite a transition for an author who has written 8 romance novels and single stories for 3 novellas. No, it seems it has not been a hard task for Brenda Jackson. Actually she seems to demonstrate in her writing of this book that she isable to be like a master chef. She has managed to mix and blend both fiction and romance in this debut book and come out with a tasty treat. Oh yeah, to Brenda Jackson's most loyal followers of her romance books, she has not disappointed you by no means. This book, although it is her first women's fiction has all the components of sizzling love scenes. Actually I think they are hotter in this book than her romance books. Now figure that one out??<BR>Again, to my namesake and friend...you done good girl! And by the way, I am very proud of you!! All of us here in Florida are very proud of you!!<BR>For those who are being introduced to Brenda Jackson for the very first time, please check out her other published work, I think you'll be hooked just like the rest of her loyal readers and friends.<BR>Her other published books: Tonight and Forever, Cupid's Bow, Whispered Promises, Eternally Yours, One Special Moment, Fire and Desire, Truly Everlasting from the anthology Something To Celebrate, Secret Love, True Love, Surrender, and Welcome To Leo's	2001-08-30
US	50985587	R1HCQAP6ZMKBVK	1583141308	963702103	Through the Fire (Arabesque)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Happy Closure for Quinten Parker!!	Well, it has been a long awaited book, Through The Fire, which is the final book to the sequels of A Private Affair and Pieces of Dreams. For those who have read the  previous two, you will enjoy the whole 223 pages of this brief but wonderful story.<br />Donna Hill has delivered us some closure for Quinten, after he lost his wife Nikita and found out he had a son in the last book. Most all of Donna's most loyal fans still felt empty at the conclusion of Pieces of Dreams, we felt that it just did not display our romantic end to a book. But, Donna Hill, allows us to feel that just like in real life, the book illustrated sometimes, its all about timing. It just was not Q's (that's what he's called) time to find real love in Pieces of Dreams. There was still much healing that needed to take place.<br />But this long awaited closure book called, Through The Fire, is the appropriate title for what both the hero, Quinten Parker and the heroine, Rae Lindsay must endure before finding what we can say God intented to take place between the two of them.<br />As you read this book, you feel the pain Q endures as he still deals with the loss of his wife, sister and mother and the impact it has on every single thing within his life. Oh, sure he functions and moves through his daily life, but at the cost of such an empty feeling. Rae, on the other hand had been dealt some heavy duty losses also, and she of course in her own way deals differently than Q but somehow, the similiarities in their past has such a connecting force that it draws them together. All of these if you read the story closely, and place yourself in one of these roles, you begin to feel the story as you're reading it. I for one did, and having experienced the loss  of a love one, I surely have had first-hand training on the dymnamics that must take place in one's life to move on and be in a position to accept love all over again. And my folks, it anin't an easy task.<br />So, Donna, thank you for this easy, smooth reading that I truly enjoyed. I wish you nothing but continued success in both the romance and mainstream genres. Looking forward to Rhythms....<br />Here are some of my other favorite Donna Hill books: A Private Affair, Pieces of Dreams, Scandalous, Indiscretions, Intimate Betrayal, If I Could* (*her first mainstream fiction),Charade, Chances Are, Quiet Storm, Temptation and Deception.	2001-05-25
US	50985587	R1MOE0HV6THGJ1	1583141693	176828191	Once And Again (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Deirdre Savoy Has Done It Again!!!!	After completing Once and Again, I said to myself, Dee Savoy just keeps on elevating to another level. This is Dee Savoy's third book, having now read all three, each has its own characteristics and being unique in its own special way.<br />I strongly recommend to everyone who enjoys the romance novels to read this book. Great character development, the romance is the heart of this story, it has a lot of passion and you feel the real-lifeness of how the author pulls you into the story.<br />This is one of those books, you just find great difficulty in putting it down, as though you may miss something. It's what we call An All-Nighter type book, one that you can't help but fall in love with both the hero and the heroine.<br />For some of you who read Dee Savoy's last book, Always, will recognize some of the key players in this book. You get the chance to see Nathan Ward, Daphne Thorne (Michael Thorne's sister) and Jenny. You meet some new characters like Bradley and Sherry. You feel the love of baby Emily and you'll understand the sacrifice of motherly love that Monica leaves. <br />In summarizing this book, I say it was one awesome story that I actually hated to see it end on page 300. Yeah, folks 300 pages worth of great reading, the kind of story that makes you say, THAT WAS ONE GOOD BOOK!!!!<br />I met Dee Savoy last year and was very impressed with her loving spirit, saw her again this year and that same spirit still shining with the smile she gives us on the back of her bookcovers. You did outstanding with this book Dee and as usual I look forward to the next DEE SAVOY book that most likely will keep us up ALL NIGHT LONG!<br />Check out Dee Savoy's other published books: Spellbound and Always.	2001-05-01
US	50985587	R32259P9676PID	0312978626	299683875	The Turning Point	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding Francis Ray!!!!	For those of you who may not be familiar with Francis Ray, this is her first mainstream fiction debut. However, she is not new to the world of writing, as she is one of our most popular romance authors who has given us those famous connecting books featuring the unforgettable families: The Taggarts, Falcons and Greysons.  That's the Francis Ray I'm speaking about in this review!<br />Francis Ray has taken a leap of faith and brought us her very first mainstream fiction, The Turning Point. This is a profound story that is very special to Francis because of the subject matter that deals with blindness, which she explains in the author's section of the book for you to read.<br />If you enjoy reading a book that is a smooth easy readable story, deals with sensitive issues of the affects of a woman who has lived in an abusive marriage, a highly respected neurosurgeon who is a victim of a crime resulting in blindness and full of anger over this mishap, interesting secondary characters that truly enhance this compelling story, then I strongly recommend that you take the time to purchase and read this book. I've read many mainstream fiction books and I have to honestly say, this one I enjoyed the most and will be one of those that I read over and over again. <br />I am very blessed and fortunate to say that I have not only communicated frequently with Francis Ray over the past couple of years, but I have spent time interacting and working with her at romance conferences.  Francis, thank you for this wonderful book!! I hope that you will not only continue to give us more fiction books but also please continue to give us those romance books!! You still owe us several more books on the Greyson family, if my count is right I think that's 4 brothers and the only sister!!!!<br />Check out some of my favorites by Francis Ray:  Single Titles: Fallen Angel, Forever Yours, Undeniable, Only Yours, Silken Betrayal, Heart of the Falcon, Break Every Rule, Incognito, Until There Was You.Novellas: Rosie's Curl and Weave, Della's House of Style and Welcome To Leo's<br />One last comment to Francis Ray: Will there be any future books on Rafe, Kristin and Brent??? I sure hope so.......	2001-04-11
US	50985587	R3Q474V6LQ0I3S	1585710490	67781815	Eve's Prescription (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fantastic!!!	Eve's Prescription was such an interesting book for me to read. I could basically relate to this book because I have experienced some of the same similiarities as the heroine, Eve Garrett. Eve, was a young widow, left to raise a teenage son and had been married for 14 years. I was also faced with that same situation, so my reading of this book hit home for me.<br />I have to say this to anyone reading this review, that women who are faced with life after losing their husbands all of us deal with this part of life so differently. It's like taking a major class that is required for everyone before they can graduate from school, we all have to take the class but we all may deal with the subject different. Eve, buried her romantic feelings with her husband, not allowing anyone to break down her wall. <br />Now, I know this is a book for all of us to read but I'm going a step further to let those who have been faced with being a widow, that the author provides an excellent illustration with this book for us to take a good long look at ourselves.  The one thing I learned with losing your spouse, is the fact I had no control over this decision in life but I knew I had to move on as hard as it was. But its books like this, for the most part, if you allow yourself to be healed, read it and allow it to show you how to love again. Whatever one's belief system is, allow the power to let love come into your heart. This is what Eve is faced with as she comes into contact with Noah, the wonderful hero who happens to be younger and he is a fireman... and boy does he light up some sparks with Eve..My, My, My!!!<br />I strongly recommend reading this book, it's what I call an All-Nighter, I love both the hero and the heroine, I love the additional characters, who enhance this story even more: Ebony, Yoshi, Dina, Beulah and Sean and last the initimate scenes in this book are HOT! HOT! HOT! Oh, and every now and then there is the one you can't stand...her name is Regina! So let's sum this up, this book is an easy read, an all-nighter, the hero and heroine have been added to my favorite list, real life issues and favorite steamy romance scenes. Any to all my sisters out there who have been faced with the loss of your husband, take it from someone who is still dealing with it, read this story, if nothing else it gives you hope that you never know when God will send you another chance at love. The hardest part of this all is letting go and that's not easy, as you'll see with Eve, but if you trust in the higher force, he will bring you through it all.<br />Edwina, thanks for this story, Eve's Prescription, job well-done!!	2001-04-08
US	50985587	R3ROWKRAKSJO0Q	158314143X	456925730	A Royal Vow (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	WOW!!! Tamara Sneed Has Done It Again!!!	All I'll say is this is the book that you will read over and over again.<br />Tamara Sneed has come back after her debut book, Love Undercover, and now given us A Royal Vow.<br />Heroine is Abbie Barnes and Hero is Davis Beriyia. Story takes place in the US (Los Angeles) an exotic island called Juhatu. The class I would place this book: An All-Nighter that has romance, suspense, mystery, comedy and true love straight from the heart.<br />If I say too much about this book, I would have to give away some or most of the story and we know that is not acceptable on this site. So let me just say this, I truly recommend this book to everyone who enjoys reading these romance novels. The author, Tamara Sneed, has returned from her debut novel and delivered to us another winner. The hero and heroine have now been placed among my list of favorites.<br />Oh and Tamara will there be any excitement for Abbie's friend, Chris and what about Davis's friend/bodyguard Hiriam???<br />Congratulations Tamara!! I look forward to your next book.	2001-03-29
US	50985587	R35ZT7F4DHYCI4	1583141855	115709634	Love Notes (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Book To Read!	It is such a delight to have Leslie Esdaile back in the fold. I truly have missed reading some wonderful stories from you!!<br />I enjoyed this book that had so many interesting thoughts about marriage and just life in general. Sometimes you can find yourself reading something so profound that it makes you just stop and think of your own present situations. Well, this book has quite a few of those stop, look and listen type parts. I extrememly like the ones where it involes the father talking with his son and the part where Tony's mother speaks her mind.<br />This story, takes place in Philadelphia, heroine is named Nina Carpenter who is an artist who has been married less than 5 years to hero named, Tony Williams who ows a nightclub.<br />The author carries us through Nina and Tony's struggles of their own marriage. Both Tony and Nina find themselves seeking the advice of their own parents, which you'll find interesting what they discover.<br />Even in the midst of the troubled marriage, the author manages to find a way to add some suspense, murder, a few twists and turns, lots of suprises, that it has you turning the pages fast to see what happens next.<br />Now, in some books, stories don't always start off fast, so be patient with this one. Because it starts to pick up and even though their are many characters in this story, I did not feel it took away from the overall story, actually it enhanced the story. <br />I would class this book as a All-Nighter, the ones that keep the pages turning all night long.<br />Some of my other favorites by this author: Slow Burn and Sundance.<br />Leslie, well done!! Looking forward to your next book!!	2001-03-28
US	50985587	R26HHAORXSSSHR	1588202615	59830441	Six Days in January	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding!!	Most books you read dealing with male-female relationships basically use the same format. But with Six Days In January, I found this author using a very different approach. He selected to allow us deep within the walls of how love and being hurt by love affects the male side.<br />In most stories we read about how the woman puts her all-in-all into relationships that often times don't go in the way she expects. The woman gets hurt by loving that man too much and in the end she doesn't even get the man of her dreams. Have you ever been the woman who sees someone she likes and/or loves but that man is with someone else, you know always looking from the sidelines. Well ladies, this is about a man who is faced with those same issues. Yeah, men go through the same on stuff like us! But society does not smile when men show the sensitive side, I guess being sensitive doesn't sit well in the macho category.<br />I think this is a book that will provide some new light for us to know that the so-called ordinary guy can actually be someone who can give us just what we women need. But unless you give that ordinary guy a chance, you could be missing out on the love of your life.<br />Six Days In January is a must-read book in my opinion. It is a book that is an easy read, you'll feel the pain, the anger, the passion and oh my...the love scenes are descriptive, sizzling and quite refreshing from some of the other books I have read by male authors. (And no I am not player-hating here but just being truthful, that's all!!)<br />William McCall, the main character has some serious life-lessons to learn along his six days. But isn't life just like one big classroom. We all exist in this world, having the same tools and equipment but we all use it differently. No two students in a classroom learn the same way, or do they even study the same way. So you can't get mad at William McCall too much in this story, because as quite as its kept, we've all made choices and decisions that shall Isay we're even too shame to tell a soul.<br />Mr. Cooper, thank you for giving us a book that shows us a different side of the male-female relationship story. You are one fierce brother and I am truly looking forward to your next novel. CONGRATULATIONS!!!	2001-03-13
US	50985587	R37OWQMNRHX27J	1583142177	871498985	Infatuation (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Must Read!	I've been a fan of Sonia Icilyn's books as I enjoy reading about the world of London, England where most of her stories take place.<br />But with this new book for the year, she's outdone herself. As most of us when reading these romance novels we like a little twist and turn with romance and suspense. This book offers both and actually the author does not wait to start this book moving.<br />At the first chapter, both the heroine and the hero have their first encounter at the hero's (Wade O. Beresford) office of Bribe Magazine where Wade is the owner of this tabloid-type magazine. Heroine, Desney Westbourne is one of the daytime soap's top stars. The author does an extreme excellent job of how she allows each chapter to illustrate the relationship that builds between Wade and Desney.<br />Now, we also like some enhancements to our romance stories, well this book offers, lies, deceit, betrayal, attempted murder, assualt and who-done-it parts that lead to shall I say, interesting twists and surprises.<br />This is one of those &quot;All-Nighter&quot; books that you just want to read one more chapter before you turn the lights out.  I encourage those to read this book, I feel you will enjoy it and be just as surprised as I was at some of those secondary characters.<br />Thanks Sonia, for an enjoyable book to read. Looking forward to your next one.	2001-01-30
US	50985587	R2TOS6O5RRZEG3	1583141731	600127665	Destiny's Song (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First Debut: Outstanding!	Have you ever experienced the wait for a book that you have know for quite some time it was going to be in the bookstores? Well this is one of those books! Kim, happens to be apart of some fantastic women who have a passion for AA Romance Novels. We have witnessed her developing days to this point of her life. So it is indeed a pleasure to say I am one of many who is very happy to finally read the finished project and say to Kim how proud I am of her for Destiny's Song.<br />To my romance buddies out there: I am highly recommending this heart-warming story about photographer, Destiny Chandler and successful singer, Xavier Allgood. The author has done an excellent job of presenting us with a good plot that involves the after-math of Destiny's freedon from the obsessed boyfriend-turned stalker and Xavier dealing with the trust of women. The meeting of Destiny and Xavier is very well developed and the author does not make us wait until half way through the book when they are introduced. I enjoyed her getting right into the relationship developing at the pace she presents to us.<br />If you enjoy the romance books that can give you: easy reading, intimacy, sensuality, love for music, lots of laughter and the twist of suspense and danger, then go out and purchase, &quot;Destiny's Song.&quot; The author's presentation will not disappoint you by no uncertain means.<br />To my special group, they know who they are, I think the friend of the heroine, Jacq who added such refreshing humor to this story, will remind you of all of us combined.<br />Thanks Kim for this one!! You know how we discuss our favorite books, well yours will now be in that category. Wishing you nothing but many blessings to come. Looking forward to many more books from you!!!	2000-12-03
US	50985587	R3RJ4WTKGE95IZ	1583141219	494468350	Soul's Desire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Oh! This One Should Be Made Into A Movie!!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of the books ever written by this author under Arabesque. I have to say this one is the Best of all of them. That is not said to mean I did not enjoy the others, but I must ditto with reviewer Judy Bernstein. This book you could not put down, it moved from the very first page.<br />Now, if the author gets you hooked within the first fifty pages, you know without a doubt you've got a winner. Well Ms Taylor, I commend you for this one. I was hooked from page one and actually hated to see the last page. I wanted more!!!!<br />To my fellow romance readers and yes, you closet ones: I strongly recommend this book to you. I know some of us have our favorite romance authors and we seem to fear taking that leap of faith to read another authors work but listen, you got to at least read this one and you can see the talent of this author.<br />Do you like those fast high adventure movies like those involving a law officer and a thief...Well, this is the book for you. I cannot say alot without giving the plot away and you all know that is a No-No on this site. So let's see, what can I say: fast-paced, draws you into the story you feel every word the author describes, gives you a whole new appreciation for shall I say enjoying chocolate candy and desserts (when you get to those parts of the book..you'll know what I mean), intimate scenes, the opportunity to solve the who-done-it parts and the ending or shall I say the last chapter!!<br />Ms Taylor, you did an outstanding job on this novel and I wish you nothing but success. My fellow romance pals and they know who they are: Another book I recommend to you, you'll feel like you're watching a movie that you watch over and over again only difference its in book form.<br />Check out some of my other Simona Taylor favorites: Mesmerized and Night Heat.	2000-10-13
US	50985587	R13TPP32S1KJRQ	1583141685	376188102	Always (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Always...A Story That Touches The Heart!	To Dee Savoy, you have done it again, by giving us another beautiful love story with Jenny Scanlon and Michael Thorne.<br />I often times hear that these so-called romance novels are not realistic, they don't write about people who can be like us. Well, I beg to differ, because somewhere out there they do exist. Of course, our belief system is entirely developed from what one experiences in life.<br />Well, Ms Savoy seems to have found a great story to tell us here with, &quot;Always&quot;. Fellow romance readers and those closet ones also, let me first recommend this book to you. WHY? Well, do you want to curl up with a easy-to-read book that purely illustrates how love has a way with you that brings you in a total circle? Well this has a hero and heroine who have know each other since teenager days, both their fathers are best friends. Jenny has always had a crush on Michael. We've been there sometime in our life, where we had the crush on the older guy we knew we could not have because of our age. Well, this book has all that but no good love story would not be exciting without a few twists of deception...RIGHT? Well the author has managed to give us the sparks of love, intimacy, test of friendship, lies and deceit, and interesting secondary characters like Nathan.<br />I strongly recommend my fellow romance readers and yes, you closet ones too, to read, &quot;Always&quot;. Another reason I truly enjoyed this, is how the author let's us know how she got the basis for this story. That brought back memories to how our elders would tell us things about our future and we would laugh at them like they were crazy. But then when it happens, all we can do is smile and say WOW! how does she do that....<br />Thanks Dee for another fantastic story....Looking forward to your next book...	2000-10-08
US	50985587	R2Q1AGNHIK6PW3	1885478984	250262522	Whispers in the night (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Truly A Good Story!	I strongly recommend my fellow romance readers to read this book, I know  you should enjoy it.<br />The heroine in this story is Patricia Ryan, bumps  into the hero Mackenzy Carter but called, Mac Carter. This chance meeting  involves a community center for at risk kids.<br />In any story that mixes  business with pleasure; well you are bound to get trouble in the  relationship. But this story that takes place in Florida provides you with  aggressiveness, some humor, lots of intimacy, lies, betrayal and  unconditional love from a mother and brother. It also has some moments of  danger that heightens the story that keeps you turning the pages.<br />I  enjoyed the illustration that the author shows with Patricia, her mother  and her brother Parker. The characters portray such unconditional love that  I believe any of us can feel the love coming through as you read the  book.<br />Thanks Ms Love for this wonderful and enjoyable story. I hope  you'll consider a story with Parker Ryan real soon.	2000-09-09
US	50985587	R19UDU7Y98AYXQ	1885478275	210844484	Midnight Peril (Indigo Love Stories) (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Debut Novel: Excellent!!	Midnight Peril was my first introduction to this new and refreshing  author, Vicki Andrews. This is one of those books that has two stories  going on in one book. The major story focusing on the heroine and the minor  story focusing on a secondary character.<br />My fellow romance readers, this  author provides for us a look into the life of the heroine who is Leslie  Hughes, widowed, now a single mom with a teenage daughter and the high  pressured career as a successful corporate attorney. Secondary character,  Bryan is Leslie long-time friend who is also an attorney. Now this is where  the author presents the secondary story involving Bryan. Sorry folks can't  tell you what its about, but let me say the author provides some shocking  surprises about Bryan.<br />Now enters the hero of the story, Robert...well he  does ignite some passion in this story. Now as a romance reader, ask  yourself this question, &quot;Does your relationship have passion?&quot;  Well, read this book and see how crafty the author shows us the definition  to the passion that Robert ignites with Miss Leslie.<br />I think you'll find  this story very refreshing, interesting, intimate and yes full of twists  and turns plus a slight touch of a shocker or two.<br />In saying all of this,  I encourage you to take a moment and read Ms. Andrews debut novel, I don't  think you'll be disappointed and perhaps you can then add her to your  favorite roster of the Diva's of Romance.<br />Looking forward to your next  novel!!	2000-09-09
US	50985587	R1YDT5HBW8M8UP	1885478755	537762301	Lighter Shade Of Brown (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Too Good!!!!	It is something after you read one novel by an author, they deliver the  second book and its just as excellent as the first. In case you have not  read any books written by Ms Andrews, do so right now and its okay to read  them out of order.<br />I strongly recommend this book if not for the sole  purpose of education. This plot that was developed is one that makes you  stop and consider the type of products you use, because there could  possibly be a hidden agenda involved with them.<br />That is the case for this  story, as an attorney named, Danithia Gilberts takes on a case representing  a client who is a victim of clinical testing. The hero, who is a security  officer (so we thought) named Alexander, &quot;Alex&quot; Powers enters the  picture. From the moment he enters, this story starts moving at such a  rapid speed, you keep turning the pages not wanting to put the book down.  Yes, my fellow romance readers, once again it is one of those kinds of  books. It is full of suspense, danger, betrayal, lies, deceit, lots of  intimacy and shockers. After I finished reading this book, I told myself no  more skin creams for me, when you read this book you'll find out why I'm  saying this to you.<br />I had to check and see if this was a for-real story  because it sure leaves you with so much to consider to reasons why some  products are developed. It's like a Hidden Agenda that is hiding in the  background waiting to attack you.<br />Well, now that I've stirred everyone up  to read this book, I strongly recommend you adding this to your list of  to-read books.<br />Since this is my second book for Ms Andrews, I can't wait  to see what she has in store for us next. I hope we don't have to wait  long????<br />Check out Ms Andrews debut book: &quot;Midnight Peril&quot;	2000-09-09
US	50985587	R1RD8DB342JA99	1585710245	45506830	And Then Came You (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding!	Well Ms Love, you answered my request to give us a book on Parker Ryan. To  those who are just being introduced to this author's work, let me first  take this moment to recommend reading her debut book, &quot;Whispers In The  Night&quot;. Parker is first introduced in this book that is about his  sister, Patricia and Mac Carter.<br />I really enjoyed this book and have  re-read it again before submitting this review. I thought Mac Carter was  such an aggressive flirt wiith Patricia. I do believe, Parker has topped  him. The heroine in this story is Dr. Cheneza Addams, she's referred to as  Chi. Well, you know I am not permitted in these reviews to give any spoiler  information to the plot of this story. So, let's see what I can tell you:  Parker's first meeting with Dr. Addams is quite unique and shall I say  maybe sensual, but it doesn't stop there because Parker does not pull any  punches, none what-so-ever.<br />So need I say this book can offer the fellow  romance reader with: aggressiveness when required, lots of intimacy,  flirting, parts that will make you laugh and some sad parts. Of course we  already know, most of these books would be nothing without complications of  one's past. Both the hero and heroine have issues that need to be worked  out in order for them both to move forward. Chi's mother really has  personal issues that make a significant impact on her life; Parker's past  hurts and a few other things, I won't mention has a tremendous impact on  him likewise. But the author weaves both of their problems into one where  the outcome shall I say is a happy one. The title of this book, &quot;And  Then Came You&quot; is very suiting to the overall story. This is one of  those hard-to-put-down books until you finish it in one sitting. <br />Thanks  Ms Love for giving us Parker Ryan's story and once again you illustrated  the unconditional love of family that Parker receives in this book.<br />Hope  we don't have to wait so long to read another one of your books.	2000-09-09
US	50985587	R1CTKQQJ50ZOBQ	1585710385	136951710	So Amazing (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	So Amazing Was Just That..Amazing!!	I have been waiting for Jenny Martin's story after first reading about her  in &quot;Glory of Love&quot;. Yes, my fellow romance readers this is a  shall we say a continuation from Glory of Love.<br />Jenny Martin in the last  book fought a heavy burden with an abusive husband and what he (Earl) was  willing to do to his own daughter, Chole. For those who have experienced  the after-math of being in abusive situations should respect what the  author has done to show us someone like Jenny can find a chance at  love.<br />But, in most cases there comes difficulties in letting go of your  past fears that Jenny has experienced, when she encounters the handsome  Laurence Strong. Strong's quick-temper and arrogant behavior leaves Jenny  having those same fears, wondering just what has she gotten herself into.  She encounters Mr. Strong after being recommended for a job with him by her  friends Nina and Addison Wagner (they were the hero and heroine in The  Glory of Love)<br />I recommend reading this story to not only see how well  the author shows us the strength Jenny has to learn to cope with her past  fears but to also witness by reading about why Laurence's behavior is being  driven by his own past fears. Together these two, Jenny and Laurence find  that the answers to getting rid of their fears comes from them being with  one another.<br />Thanks Sinclair for this story and of course I enjoyed the  significant roles that both Addison and Nina played in this story about  Jenny Martin.<br />Now, you need to consider writing us a story about Roscoe,  the attorney who seems to say the wrong things at the wrong time. Perhaps a  strong woman needs to enter his life and straighten him out a  bit.<br />Looking forward to your next novel!!	2000-09-09
US	50985587	RRHD85JQTL8F9	1575666952	891466596	Lookin' For Luv	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Wonderful Job!!	This book came recommended to me by two wonderful people that I know, one  being the Diva of Romance herself, Rochelle Alers and second my friend of  Montsho, Jackie Perkins. They both said you gotta read this book by Carl  Weber. Guess what, I did and I really had fun reading this book. It was not  a dull moment in this book, it sorta kept me grabbing the book even when I  knew I needed to sleep. The book is full of so much DRAMA that I believe  that is what kept it so interesting.<br />I am the true romance reader but it  was very refreshing having Mr. Weber illustrate in this book the lives of  four African-American men from various backgrounds with different agendas.  But they had one thing in common, they all end up calling this love line  (1-900-Black Luv). The book revolves around what each one encounters from  the selected mates from that love line.<br />It's funny, it's some food for  thought-type book, it is an easy read that it works like a magnet pulling  you deep into the story.<br />I strongly recommend this book, especially to my  very special set of romance readers, they know who they are because they  check on my reviews all the time. Now it does not have those high initimate  scenes you're accustomed to but you should definetly enjoy the break  because this book does provide just what Doctor BJ orders: LAUGHTER, FUN,  EASY-READING AND RELAXATION!!<br />One great thing about my reading this book  and having my own personal copy is that Carl Weber will be here in my city  this month and of course I can have it autographed.<br />Looking forward to  the next Carl Weber novel!!	2000-09-08
US	50985587	R9DP2201KB7TA	1583141197	197228200	Stolen Moments (Arabesque)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Dianne Mayhew's Best!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of this authors' work so it gives me much pleasure to say this is the best book of all her books  together.<br />In my opinion, it was something so real about the developed  plot of this story that left me no choice but to truly enjoy it. It was  such a smooth soothing type story that personally I could relate to.<br />If  you like those type of romance stories that provide you with first-meeting  attractions; a little bit of deceit, betrayal, jealousy and intimacy. If  your answer is yes, then let me recommend this book.<br />Ms Mayhew gives us  heroine, Sionna Michaels, newlywed but suddenly becomes a widow; then there  is the hero, David Young who you just can't help but fall in love with.  You'll enjoy how well the author develops their relationship, the flirting,  the smiles they bring to one another, how well they seem to be soulful  mates for one another. But to most of the fellow romance readers, we know  behind every great plot there lurking in the background is the jealous ex  who always returns to the scene of the crime; well she gives us her best  academy performance, Miss Jaundice, yes indeed did she do her best  performance! The kind of performance that made me the reader hate  everything she represented. What drives a woman like Jaundice is beyond my  understanding. But you must read this book to find out Sionna was not one  to play with, she just did not always sing to the ex's song and dance or  react the way she had it figured.<br />Well Ms Mayhew, you truly  delivered an  outstanding story with &quot;Stolen Moments&quot;. It definetely stole my  heart as being the favorite of all your books. This is one of those books,  I could re-read just like watching an old movie many times plus.	2000-09-02
US	50985587	R1J45OXL8JGXCN	1583141421	735334232	Love Undercover (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Debut Novel: Very Good!	Congratulations Ms Sneed on an excellent delivery of Love Undercover.<br />I  enjoyed your author comments describing the Greek Mythology class and the  subject matter being used as a foundation for your story-line. I love the  stories involving around government agencies as it was illustrated in this  story.<br />The main characters: FBI Anti-Terrorist Agent, Cary Riley and  Financial Consultant, Jessica Larson. You managed to use the philosophy of  the Greek Mythology class into the development of Cary and Jessica's  relationship which was very well done. You established the ground work in  how they meet and the road they had to travel to the ending of the book.  The minor characters: I loved Jessica's brother's (David) role he played as  the over-protecting big-brother; her best friend, Erin and the constant  bickering she and David does that enhances the story which I am not going  to give that part away. The roles of the agents: Dan and Tyler, of course  to again enhance the life as FBI agents. Again, not to discuss too much  about their roles but they are indeed very significant to this story.<br />The  book would not have any excitement without controversial issues of the past  that always seem to get in the way mostly throughout the book. But for all  our lives, we all seem to have issues that one must resolve in order to  move on in life and that is what Cary is faced with but I was happy that he  finally sees the light. I also enjoyed the patience of love that both  Jessica and Cary's brother Logan project in this story. As the saying goes,  Love Does Conquer All.<br />Ms Sneed, I don't know how you feel about sequels,  as some authors don't like to pursue them but just for consideration  purposes, I liked Cary's brother Logan in this story and would love to see  you develop a story-line in the future for him, along with introducing the  sister that is mentioned in this book but did not make any  appearances.<br />Ms Sneed, this was a very good book that Itruly enjoyed and  recommend to my fellow readers to read. Since this debut book has provided  us with a sample of what is yet to come, I look forward to having the  opportunity to reading your next book.	2000-08-31
US	50985587	R7XJ6RX8M3JW1	1583141448	732421839	True Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	&quot;It Surely Is True Love&quot;	If you are not a fan of Brenda Jackson, then let this book be the reason  you now choose to become one of her fans.<br />First, I have to give a shout  out to Brenda Jackson who I have had the pleasure of not just reading all  of her books, but to meet her personally and have the opportunity to work  with her on major events. So I have seen first hand of the personality of  Brenda Jackson. To my fellow readers, the love she illustrates in all her  books revolving around family and friends; well for Brenda Jackson it comes  naturally seeing it with my own eyes of how she loves and respects, family,  friends and her fans. So it is no surprise to me after reading her most  recent book, True Love that once again she had not disappointed me as one  of her loyal fans and friend.<br />Fellow readers of Brenda and those who need  to become one, listen you will love reading about Sterling Hamilton's half  brother, Nicholas Chenault. Remember Nicholas was introduced in the book  called, &quot;One Special Moment' featuring Colby and Sterling. Well in  this book Nicholas takes center stage as CEO of Chenault Electronics and  the heroine, Shayla Kirkland who comes to work for him. Now this does not  have the high adventure like, Fire and Desire. But it offers you a story  with many stories built into one book.<br />If you enjoy high technology  suspense, revenge, deceit, betrayal, lots and lots of intimacy, a few  twists and turns, able to keep up with handling more than one relationship  taking place.....Then this is a Brenda Jackson special that you will keep  turning the pages until you realize its the wee hours of the morning but  you just can't put the book down until its finished. <br />Brenda, thank you  for always bringing us such exciting books to read that leaves us with  lasting memories. <br />Always your friend and namesake,<br />Brenda	2000-08-29
US	50985587	R3CC1GGNOGEFFE	1583141359	213423042	Endless Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful!!!	I have patiently been waiting all summer to finally read, Endless Love. I  was priviledge to receive a sample copy (a three chapter booklet) this past  June, so of course my patience played out this past weekend. I was able to  immediately start at chapter 4 and conlcuded the book this morning. Yes my  fellow readers, this is one of those books that screams for you to keep  turning the pages until you're finished.<br />Do you like those books about a  strong African-American family with both parents and lots of fine educated  brothers (six of them all together); a book that offers intimacy, laughter  (lots), relatives you love and some you just wish they go away; deals with  divorce; family draining you senseless; Okay if your answer is yes, then  read this book because you will not want to put it down until you  finish.<br />Now Carmen Green has already set the scene for attorney Michael  Crawford's outcome of why he is now divorced. You must read two books (if  you haven't already) to prepare you for Endless Love: Silken Love (Dr. Eric  Crawford) and Keeping Secrets (Captain Nicholas &quot;Nick&quot; Crawford),  now there are three other brothers who did not get their own books but they  are mentioned very well in all of the books. That's just some backgound  information for all of you.<br />Now is this a book with an interesting story:  Yes it is one that I feel you will enjoy as it addresses what happens to  the man our hero, Michael, after he begins to deal with the fact his  marriage of ten-years is now over. See, he is the first and I mean first of  the entire Crawford family to be divorced. So you see what he is faced  with. But he meets the heroine of this story, Terra O'Shaughssey, who  happens to be the live-in building manager of the apartment Michael moves  into. Now is the picture getting clear to you, I hope so, because I am not  permitted to give the story away by no uncertain means. Just trust me, this  story was delivered very well by this author,I mean Ms Green did an  outstanding job and the wait was very well worth it. I love the stories  dealing with our strong African-American families that deplict love,  understanding and the strong christian beliefs we grew up with. Carmen  Green has been one to take on the gifted task of providing those kinds of  stories.<br />Carmen, thank you for following your heart as you indicated but  to be honest it was placed their from a higher intervention that wanted  this story told to us. Keep on doing what you do best, use your gift wisely  and continue to be led to give us the story-telling we so rightfully  deserve. May the force continue to shine his blessings upon you.<br />We look  forward to you one day bringing us the Second Generation of Crawfords, I  know when  those stories are placed on your heart, it will be right on  time. <br />Looking forward to meeting you and getting my books signed in  Orlando!!!	2000-08-27
US	50985587	R25ZN4B8DEWJQ0	1583141502	439514869	The Business Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enjoyed This Book!	I still don't quite understand why Arabesque/BET still publishes books with 250 pages. It seems the authors are forced to include so much  territority in such a short length of time. Well, based on the 250 pages  that I read of this suspense romance story by Angela Winters, I enjoyed it  very much.<br />The plot: I enjoyed the combination of the private owned  company deciding to go public with its stock. Although it seemed at times  throughout this book, the authors' technical details of the business  dynamics was over-bearing. But upon completion of the story, I appreciated  the through work because it gave me a better perspective. The major  characters: Maya Woodson and Trajan &quot;Tre&quot; Matthews, I thought  they definitely matched well especially for the overall plot itself. The  hard driven career oriented man Trajan really works the nerves and patience  of Maya. <br />The minor characters: I loved George, the police-officer who is  the good friend of Trajan and the significant role he plays for always  providing the right advice he gives to both Tre and Maya. George, Alisa and  even Jerome all enhance this story so well with the major characters.<br />If  you don't mind dealing with the technical parts about the world of stocks,  which takes up alot of space in this story, you will be able to deal with  the developing sparks and relationship between Maya and Tre; solve the  murder that takes place; figure out who-done-it and why? and finally the  after-math of it all. You should enjoy this book, hey it's a short read and  has some interesting twists.	2000-08-06
US	50985587	R1GRRO8YCIJSOG	1583141642	591848411	Admission Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Extremely Outstanding!!	Often times it is difficult for the first-time author to make an  impression on readers. It's like moving out of your family home to your  first apartment, you want to show your family you can make it on your  own.<br />Well, the debut novel for Niobia Bryant, shows us that she has  stepped out here and demonstrated to us, she has just what it takes to make  it as a successful author. I am quite impressed with Admission of Love for  these reasons: well developed storyline, great characters, lots of humor,  displayed love for family, lots of sizzling sensual love scenes a herione  that takes no stuff with a strong hero to deal with and such a joy using  dialouge from the other side with the deceased family members. <br />Chloe  Bolton, super-model decides to retire and relocated to her mothers' home in  South Carolina where she comes face to face with her hero Devon Jamison who  happens to have an identical twin brother name Deshawn. Now, you know the  rules, I cannot give the story plot away, but trust me on this book...It is  sooooo good and you won't want to put the book down until you finish  it.<br />I loved all aspects of this book that sometimes was like one step  forward and two steps back with Devon and Chloe. I also enjoyed the special  dialouge the author uses with those family members who have died being like  the special guardian angels, that seemed to add a special touch for me  personally.<br />Niobia, you did an outstanding performance on your debut book  and I feel a sequel in the make on this one, don't ask me how, you just got  to read this book and find out the answer for  yourself. Looking forward to  your next one!!	2000-08-03
US	50985587	R63M1S2B25KTQ	0380786605	177750826	Topaz	Books	5	10	10	N	N	So Good!	Well I first have to give a very special group on The Color of Love Forum my thanks for getting me started on the journey of reading Beverly Jenkins books. A special sorority sister of mine actually mailed her copy to me to  read. Boy am I glad she thought enough of me to do just that, because Topaz  was one great book that I truly enjoyed reading.<br />I had not taken the leap  into the historical romances but its something about the way Ms Jenkins  uses her skill to tell these stories, you get pulled in like a magnet and  cannot stop reading until you've finished.<br />Well, Marshall Dixon,  &quot;Dix&quot; Wildhorse is some kind of man who comes from a strong  heritage of Black Seminoles winds us marrying Katherine, &quot;Kate, Love.  The relationship journeys through some ups and downs but has such a spark  of some sizzling love scenes in the 1800's WOW!  If I say more, I'll end up  giving the story away and that is not allowed on this site.<br />But just take  my word folks, because this historical romance is not what you've been led  to believe. It's more like the history of blacks during these times and Ms  Jenkins is an excellent author in presenting this story about Dix and Kate.  I strongly feel if she was our history teacher, she would make taking black  history such an enjoyment that we would all earn passing grades.<br />Well, I  have been given my next Jenkins book to read and that's Vivid. Thank you  Beverly Jenkins for an outstanding book, and I kept my promise I made to  you in Dallas that I would start reading your books. What a joy it has  been!	2000-08-01
US	50985587	R3Q6U6KYUMG2SL	1583141170	137920667	First Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Story!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of Cheryl Faye's books and realized after reading this book why I love her style of writing so much. Ms Faye, presents to us the three-ring relationship issues. There's this great  couple, Lena Caldwell and Quincy Taylor; then there's the ex-fiance Rhonda.  The author shows us in this easy read of 24 chapters and 250 pages the  first time love for Lena with Quincy. Quincy's patience and love did alot  for shy-sheltered Lena.  But in any relationship stories done by Ms Faye  there is always a conflict boiling somewhere. Well she developes the story  very well by giving us an illustration as to how the conflict gets  resolved.<br />I truly enjoyed, Lena, Quincy, Karen and Serge; the delightful  Cheryl (character in this book) turned out to be an asset in this story,  but first she really tested my nerves. As for Rhonda, a lesson in life she  needed to learn.<br />Thanks Cheryl Faye for another one of your books  providing some life-lesson matters dealing with relationships and matters  of the heart.<br />If you enjoy books that just happen to be about couples  that involve another woman making every effort to break them up, check out  these books by Ms Faye: At First Sight, A Time For Us and A Test of Time.  You won't be disappointed how well she works these stories and will  appreciate the author for using this as a major subject matter for her  books.<br />Looking forward to your next book!  Much success throughout the  new century.	2000-07-31
US	50985587	R3URHU5MP6LSAP	0380813955	217050035	Wishin' on a Star	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Extraordinary Story!	After reading this book, &quot;Wishin' On A Star&quot; I have to admit it is one of my favorite Eboni Snoe books. I actually have read all of her works except Beguiled. This book had such a smooth easy plot that was  simply enjoyable and pleasant to read.<br />The author is such a unique writer  with her stories, some of the past books, although I have enjoyed them,  they have had some serious subject matters that were always not a one day  read. But this one, the only reason I did not read it in one day, is  basically I took it with me while attending my sorority convention. <br />I  loved the hero, Raphael Blaize who comes from Grenada seeking for his  nephew's father. But instead encounters Shelby Russau (his nephew's  father's sister) The first time meeting for them is quite interesting and  the decision Shelby makes that brings her to Grenada.<br />Overall I recommend  reading this book, its a great plot that's well developed, very interesting  characters, has some humorous parts, some touching of the heart parts,  suspense and of course some sizzling sensual parts between Raphael and  Shelby. <br />Thanks Eboni, for such an enjoyable book to read. I am looking  forward to your next book.	2000-07-31
US	50985587	RV79QYTXGF4O9	1585710172	20264575	Sin (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This was an inspirational story!	When I first visited the store and saw this book, I had never heard of this author. I was taken back by the title even more so of the story description found on the back of the cover. I though to myself, now what is  this story about that featured a female minister and a man who called  himself, 'Sin'. Well to my suprise and perhaps to others who have an open  and receptive mind, this was an outstanding book that I can find myself  reading over and over again. For those who are believers in God or a higher  force, this book provides such an illustration of what it means to let go  and let God lead your life. This book, showed me how He has a plan for all  our lives, often not seeing the full picture at the time of why things  happen the way they do, it just falls in place. The picture does not become  clear until all pieces are in place. Well this story illustrates it all in  this one book. Sin, whose name is Sinclair and Nedra have history together  but the author does such an excellent job of how our lives can cross each  other's paths in full circle to perfectly come together as God had it  planned all along. If you like a book that will illustrate the power of  love, faith, prayer, the thrill of adventure and passion. READ, this book.  Its stated on the back of the cover, this is the author's first novel. Well  Ms Rhodes, you did a wonderful job telling this story and I look forward to  more of your novels in the future. To my fellow readers, give this one a  try and read it, I don't think you'll be disappointed, as a matter of fact  there's some suprises!<br />Also recommend: Follow Your Heart by Raynetta  Manees and Passion by T.T. Henderson	2000-07-30
US	50985587	R2PPN4JBCFQFCT	1583141405	180663696	Soulful Serenade (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Love That Weathered The Storm!	Linda Hudson-Smith, you seem to have a special way in telling a story, you did so well with &quot;Ice Under Fire&quot; and now you have done just as well with Soulful Serenade. <br />It is very often when reading a romance  novel, people have such high expectations or predictions about how the  story will turn  out. They tend to think its all fluffy, sweet, and all end  up  the same way. Well, that is not exactly true, each book has its own  unique message for all of us which could have a significant impact on our  own lives.<br />We have here, two sets of best friends, Cassie and Hilliary  meet Aaron and Brandon one night in a club by sharing a table. It's at that  moment that the building of these two sets of relationships begin. Now, I'm  not going to give the story away but I want to encourage people to take a  moment to read this book. Let me tell you why: If you are currently in a  relationship that involves one of the parties who has issues of lack of  trust and jealously and it's affecting your relationship, then this is a  perfect book to read. The author has developed a storyline here that can  provide you with ways to deal with jealousy and lack of trust. It is fears  like these that can cause the down fall to any relationship. It's like  traveling through a series of valleys but it shows you just how love  conquers it all and making the necessary sacrifices. Brandon and Hillary  (the main characters) had some serious valleys to travel but you got to  read the book to see how well the author shows what steps were taken to  resolve these issues.<br />Sometimes in life we are put through some heavy  tests that forces us to face our fears dead on but to see the love that  moves within this story as the hero fights for the love of his life...Well  folks, it's one of those books that you say...That was real good. A real  love story that definitely weathered the storm! <br />Linda, I truly not only  enjoyed the entire book, (and by the way one of my most favorite parts that  touched me was page 348 with 1 Corinthians 13 and the bouquet) but I also  liked the way you developed each role all of your characters played, it  brought so much more to this story. I look forward to your next book and  encourage others to also read your first book, &quot;Ice Under Fire.&quot;	2000-07-30
US	50985587	R2MEJODNSLRP9J	0312974973	147873925	Della's House of Style	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fantastic!	As an advid fan of the romance genre, and having read over 270+ romance books I can honestly say you learn the writing skills of many authors. These four, which I have read all of their published work, still remain as  some of the best writers in their field. Even in an anthology, which are  short stories at that, they still maintain to hold your interest. Well,  Rochelle, Donna, Francis and Felicia, you did it once again, came back  after Rosie's Curl and Weaves to give us another winner. Congratulations to  all of you! <br />All four stories were outstanding: Donna Hill who presents  us with a story about the owner and the tax man..WOW I enjoyed this one.  The plot itself, about the taxes, well that is a story that leaves you  wondering about the IRS?  Read it and when you finish you'll see what I  mean.<br />Francis Ray - well, I loved it!  For those who read Francis's story  in Rosie, you'll see some folks you remember from before. The story ended  making me wonder, is Shelton next? <br />Rochelle Alers - this author put me  on notice it had to do with a widow and being one myself, this was my  favorite story. I truly loved the development of the relationship between  Maria and Cameron. The story touched me as it was eloquently done so well.  Thanks Rochelle!<br />Felicia Mason - Enjoyed this one likewise, and the  message it offers to us. You defintely have no control over who you fall in  love with and in this case the story was done so well showing us.<br />Well  ladies, we look forward to many more anthologies by all of you!  Thanks  again for Della's House of Style.	2000-07-13
US	50985587	R3CJSIPAUCQLNA	1583141480	30344612	Snowbound With Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful Story!	This is Alice Wootson's debut novel and I commend her on an excellent job.<br />I began to read this book and could not stop reading it, that is how good the book was to me. The plot was very good and the hero, Tyler Fleming  and heroine, Charlotte Thompson, were very well developed.<br />I enjoyed  reading about the blizzard, being a snow-bird native myself and having been  in a couple of blizzards, brought back some memories. So for those who have  never experienced snow, the authors descriptions in this book were of true  facts.<br />I don't want to give away too many details of the book, but the  unfolding of this story was never boring, fast paced, well developed  characters, some intense moments, you experience the feelings that both  Tyler and Charlotte have in the story.<br />Overall, I highly recommend to the  fellow romance readers, to take a chance on this new author and read her  debut book. By the way she comes from a family of experienced romance  writers, as she is the sister of Marilyn Tyner who also writes some  excellent books.<br />Congratulations Alice on this book and I wish you much  success on all you endeavors.	2000-07-13
US	50985587	R1MC9VAG0S52FB	1583141146	649551422	Family Ties (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Jacquelin Thomas Does It Again!	I truly love the way Ms Thomas writes a story so eloquently that involves family and friends. Mckenzie Ashford, devistated by her mothers' death and looking to take revenge on the person she feels responsible. Marc Chandler  the owner of the company, where McKenzie becomes employed is the  target.<br />This is such a well thought out plot that matches perfect with  its character development and even the actual feelings each character  portrays is excellent. The author pulls you into this story, that you feel  the affects all the way to the end.<br />Well, let me recommend this book for  you to read in its entirety. Its an excellent plot, you'll enjoy the  characters (all of them), its an easy read, fast paced and meets up to the  Jacquelin Thomas standards.<br />Thanks, Jacquelin for another great novel  that I truly enjoyed. Since I love all of Jacquelin Thomas's books, my  recommendation is to just read them all and look forward to her next one  like myself!	2000-07-13
US	50985587	R1YBMYQ33YYRB0	1583141138	161989411	Island Magic (Arabesque)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Spark Appears Lost On Island Magic	I have had the pleasure of reading all of Ms Ford's novels but this one was one that I had the most difficult reading. It actually took me close to two weeks to finish reading this book because it was a slower read for me  and the difficulty I had in dealing with the conflict between Cassandra and  Gordan.<br />I realize with a relationship these two had for four and a half  years proved to have some highs and lows. But the stubborness and lack to  bend on either party began to take a serious toil on me while reading this  book.<br />For the most part, I cannot say I did not enjoy the story but it  was not as fast moving and interesting as the others written by this  author.<br />Here are my favorites of Bette Ford: After Dark, One of a Kind,  For Always and Forever After.	2000-07-13
US	50985587	R1EZ9WMERKOUXC	1583141154	294866111	Images of Ecstasy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Magnificent!	I am a true fan of Loure' Bussey's work, having read all of her books. She has become one of my most favorite authors in this genre'. After completing this book in one day, I must say she has elevated to another level in her  gift of writing. I know everyone has their own opinion of what they expect  when reading books, I gather that when reading reviews on amazon. We can  have high expectations on these authors, and when they don't meet up to the  readers point the reviews can sometimes become uncomfortable for me to even  read. So my review of this book is from my point of view of how it impacted  me personally.<br />&quot;Images of Ecstasy&quot; is a one day read, the  author waste no time getting the reader into the plot, the characters, both  major and minor ones are throughly indentified, the plot provides much  dialogue between the heroine and hero (Braxton Steele and Shay Hilton) and  the contribution of the minor characters. The book offers a sense of  reality, I mean often some stories makes readers seem its too far fetched  to happen in real life, well the author surely found an extremely developed  plot, because all while I was reading, I saw this as happening for real. I  laughed so hard at some of the drama events that take place in this story,  especially between the minor characters of Rakim (Shay's brother),  Christina (Shay's best friend) and Janet (Rakim's wife).  The major  characters, Shay and Braxton..WOW, I enjoyed how these two meet for the  first time, how much they know about each other and reading how the author  develops this relationship. It becomes obvious that they are soul-mates.  Boy, did I love how Braxton treated Shay..uhm he was good ladies, a  sweetheart and a risk-taker I must say. But you got to read the book to  find out more about Braxton Steele, Mr. District Attorney, you won't be  disappointed.<br />Loure', this is your best work I have read and proud that  you allowed the divine force to move through you as you wrote thisone. I  can't wait to see what songs you write from this book.<br />Readers of  romance, check this book out, I believe you will enjoy this, its full of  intimacy, murder, guess-who-done-it, suspense, lots of laughs, surprises, a  one-day-read and just a good book period. Thanks Loure' for acknowledging  me in this book, I am humbled by that gesture but it has indeed been a  pleasure to share in all of your endeavors.<br />Check out some the rest of  Loure' Bussey's books: A Taste of Love, Love So True, Twist of Fate, Most  of All and Nightfall.	2000-06-25
US	50985587	R1UEI46X4E3N27	1930097018	500304291	Preconceived Notions	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Robyn, This Is Beyond Outstanding!	I have read over 250 romance books by African American authors but this one is the best one ever! Robyn, you have truly been blessed with the gift of writing and I am so thankful that you take this gift seriously.<br />One of  the things I enjoyed was reading about Chicago, a place I had the pleasure  of living somewhile back and about life at a black college. I have already  shared with you that factor we share of both having attended black colleges  in Tennessee, so every phase that you shared brought back some good  memories of those days.<br />I can actually say this book deplicts a real  romance story that provides us with the beginning development of the  relationship with the ups and downs and the outcome, a book that you will  read over and over because its like food for the soul. One of the things I  have noted about Robyn, you seem to draw your readers into the story so  well, you feel yourself being in the story, with feeling every word. Your  characters are all so well developed and the overall plot you selected, if  it was not real, it sure felt like it.<br />I loved the way you developed the  relationship with Imagany and Elliott along with Caprice and Carl. Women  need to check out the Anthony character and pay attention as to how we can  not fall into his trap. The family life that Imagany and her sister Zabree  went through, well its still an area today that people still won't discuss.  This is a book about love, trust, faith, domestic violence, abuse all  wrapped up into one of the best novels I have had the pleasure of reading.  I noted something, you left something unresolved here in this book, what  ever happens to Zabree? Could that be another story down the road? I hope  so, because I sure was cheering for her and I hate to not ever find out  what becomes of her.<br />Another thing I want to note, I commend your  publisher, because I don't think I saw many typo errors if not any, that I  have found in the other romance novels. So hats off to whoever does the  editing because they did an outstanding job.<br />Robyn, I am very proud of  you with this novel, you have demonstrated to the world that you have just  what it takes to be one of the best authors ever. I strongly, recommend  this book for all to read and even for those who are aspiring to write it  is an excellent learning tool. <br />I also want to recommend to all the  readers to please read Robyn's &quot;A Twist of Fate&quot;. Just when I  thought this one was the best, she moves to a higher level with that one. I  look forward to your third novel! <br />Robyn, I wish you nothing but many  blessings and lots of success.	2000-06-18
US	50985587	R5O2FECGU3DZY	1583141073	992674372	Never Too Late For Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	WOW! Monica, What an aftermath to &quot;Heart's Desire&quot;	First, if this is a &quot;firt-time-read&quot; of one of Monica Jackson's books, you MUST READ FIRST: &quot;Heart's Desire&quot;. This book, &quot;Never Too Late For Love&quot; is the follow-up to Heart's Desire.  Heart's Desire provides all the background information that will enable you  to appreciate this book.<br />Monica, congratulations for your presentation of  this story. Tiffany, Dante and Jenny Eastman who went through that horrid  ordeal with the late Sidney Eastman was enough to make anyone wonder how  they would manage after all that drama.<br />Here, we are presented, with the  mere fact how when you don't handle those unresolved issues like abuse and  alcoholism within the family, not seeking any &quot;family counseling&quot;  all it does it suppress it until it burst. Well, this book illustrates all  the aftermath drama that comes with the territority. Monica Jackson, so  profoundly, gives us a very smooth easy read, some very juicy intimate  scenes between 47 y/o Tiffany and 55 y/o Jason (WOW! ), much humor with one  of Jason's son's and his many women problems, family matters, fears, twists  and turns you won't believe and finally the outcome.<br />See, I can't give  away the story. Just look at it like this, if you like stories that have  all the drama life can deal sometimes to you and you want to see how the  issues get resolved, then Read This Book. The book brought me laughter,  sadness and then a smile, when you finish you'll understand why.<br />Now  Monica, I sense another sequel to this, I could be wrong, but it seems like  Jenny and Jared? <br />Thanks Monica for bringing back characters from  Heart's Desire, A Magical Moment and The Look of Love, it was fun reading  about the whole crew!<br />Check out these other books by Monica: Heart's  Desire, A Magical Moment, Midnight Blue, Love's Celebration and The Look of  Love.	2000-05-29
US	50985587	R22WP1MYTUAM8T	0786005017	244538350	Public Affair (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	&quot;Power and Passion&quot;	Politics, power and passion sums up this book. But this would not be a Margie Walker specialty if it did not involve suspected murder and past secrets.<br />Marlena Lord, who is forced into politics, after her father dies  tragically in a plane crash. But good-looking, and charming real estate  developer, Miles Chase comes into her life. Oh, boy does, Miles stir some  passion up with Marlena. But, you know this story would not be complete  without a little touch of danger. Being a book about politics, you can  imagine what possibility could happen. Well, you'll have to read this book  and gather all the details.  Being a well-paced book, you should have no  problem enjoying this book.<br />My other favorite Walker books are: Remember  Me, A Sweet Refrain, Indiscretions, Breathless and Conspiracy.	2000-05-14
US	50985587	R2TWMG6L6Z8GXU	0786000414	109382329	A Sweet Refrain (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sweet and Heart-warming	Having read all of Margie Walker's books, I decided to input my comments on this story. If you like novels that include lots of suspense, romance and sexual tension, then this is the book to read. Well-paced reading,  delicate, humorous all woven throughout this book. You'll enjoy the sensual  atmosphere between Nathaniel Padell and Jenine Jones. Reuniting with each  other after fifteen years. Find out why after fifteen years, Nathaniel  shows up at Jenine's door and with a surprise in his arms.<br />Other Books  you'll enjoy by this author: Breathless, Indiscretions, Conspiracy, Public  Affair and Remember Me.	2000-05-14
US	50985587	RHC3RCCQAPUVL	0786001267	141751556	Breathless (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Breathless	Ms Walker is excellent with developing her storylines and well deserving of romance readers to read her books. Here she has developed a story that takes place in a \\"Night Club\\" setting. Nightclub owner, Monique Robbins is  forced to take a risk on a new male manager, Solomon Thomas. Now you'll  have to read the book to find out why she is reluctant to have him as the  manager. This is another one of Margie's \\"Romantic Suspense\\" books that she  leads you throughout the book trying to see `whodunit'.  This is  another well-paced book that Ms Walker delivers to us so well. <br />Other  books by this author you'll enjoy are: Indiscretions, Conspiracy, Public  Affair, Remember Me, and A Sweet Refrain.	2000-05-14
US	50985587	RR68RBE1WFR17	0786002794	326720700	Indiscretions (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love, &quot;Unexpected&quot;	If you enjoy the romantic murder suspense type books, read this book By Margie Walker. The story takes place in Texas and features, Sydney Webster who has a career at a radio station finds herself in serious trouble with  the law. She is forced under these circumstances to seek the professional  help of handsome defense attorney, Perry McDonald. Find out why this title  is very suiting to the story. This well-paced suspense murder mystery that  just so happens to include some very romantic scenes and leaves the reader  solving this mystery until close to the last chapter. But you'll find  yourself being apart of this legal team, trying to see whodunit. You'll be  surprised like I was who the real killer happens to be!<br />This author is  excellent when it comes to writing stories involving suspense with romance.  Margie, you deserve your accolades on this one, it's a book worth  reading.<br />If you like this book, check out these other published ones by  Ms. Walker: Conspiracy, Public Affair, Remember Me, A Sweet Refrain and  Breathless.	2000-05-14
US	50985587	R2EQJ5REIUAKHR	0786003855	294355658	Conspiracy (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;Danger and Passion&quot;	Here is another of Margie Walker's creations that involves a couple with a past. Murder, Danger and Passion sums up this book. Story involved around an aerospace design company with owner Marcellus Cavanaugh and Pauline  Sinclair. Enjoy this book as you witness how Marcellus rekindles the  passion with Pauline as they both face the danger of murder and Pauline  being the prime suspect.<br />As I have said on previous reviews about Ms  Walker, she seems to have a niche' for writing these romantic suspense  stories and she does it so well. Romance Readers, my advice is to check out  Ms Walker's gift of writing you'll be quite pleased with her books.<br />Check  out some of Ms Walker's other published books: Public Affair, Remember Me,  Indiscretions, A Sweet Refrain and Breathless.	2000-05-14
US	50985587	R2Y4CL817ZGQNY	1585710121	758413047	Path of Fire (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	EXcellent Book!	This was my second book I have read by this author. Most of the romance genre storylines normally take place in the United States but here the author gives us Africa as the setting. The plot involves a divorcee named  Christina, called Tia, Algood and Joseph Desire' who is a Tutsi rebel  commander. Tia is in Africa as an aid worker for Feed the World. The author  has written such an interesting story that of course has the love  attraction between Joseph and Tia; but also manages to provide such a vivid  picture of not only Africa but what takes place during those ethnic  cleansings we hear about everyday in the news. The author has done so well  in developing such an interesting story, you actually can feel yourself  being right there like Tia and also feel the hurt and pain that causes  Joseph to be involved in all of these killings. But you must read this book  to find out, how in the midst of all what is happening around Tia and  Joseph, the blessings they both receive from one another. It is a book well  worth reading and on one end it felt too real! Ms Henderson, thanks for  this great story and looking forward to another one soon! By the way, check  out Ms Henderson's other published book that is good likewise...it's  called, &quot;Passion&quot;.	2000-05-10
US	50985587	R30ZAV07DMSCNM	1583141049	601174257	Illusions Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is one of the best romance/murder mysteries!	I have not only had the pleasure of reading all of this author's books, but had the pleasure of meeting Marcia King-Gamble in person.<br />This was one of the best romance/murder mystery books I have read. The plot that was  selected for this story will show readers, that every page you will turn  until you finish this story is so good. Skyla Walker, who is a reporter is  the heroine in this story and Creed Bennett, the famous illusionist is the  hero. To my fellow romance readers: if you like the stories that not only  involves the romantic parts but has the mystery of five suspected murders  pointing to the hero, with some interesting twist of clues to figure out as  you read every page. Then, this is the book you must read, let me just  suggest you read the entire book period. This is an easy read, very  enjoyable, author will keep you interested until the very end and never a  boring part occurs in this book. The author has truly impressed me with how  well she put this one together, it was a very well thought out plot and she  should do more of the romance/mysteries in the future.<br />Thanks Marica, for  giving your reader fans like me such an enjoyable book to read.<br />Check out  some of my other favorite books I've read by this author: Eden's Dream,  Island Magic, Under Your Spell and Remembrance.	2000-05-07
US	50985587	R3NUMLC7H8NETB	1583141057	444345355	Secrets Of The Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent!	I have read all books ever written by Marilyn Tyner. This one meets, to the standard of her writing I have come accustomed to enjoying.<br />Here is a story about family secrets, betrayal, lies and the power of love. The title  of this book definitely meets up to the standard of the written plot.   Amada Reynolds has been living in an abusive home and finds herself getting  married to Drew Connors to escape her father but finds she gets more than  she bargained. To not give away too many clues of this story, which is a   must read, the author has done an outstanding job. Ms Tyner developes this  story well, character assessment are good, story moves at an easy pace for  all to read, you feel yourself being right in the story yourself. You feel  the love and patience that Drew gives Amanda. Of course, no story with a  married couple would not be complete without the &quot;hated  mother-in-law&quot; well read this book and see how she gets transformed.  Enjoy solving the mystery behind the family secrets as each page brings you  closer to the truth. Thanks, Ms Tyner for giving us such an interesting  book. Looking forward to your next book.<br />Check out some of my other  favorite books published by this author: False Impression, Step by Step and  Secrets. All three of these are very good books to read.	2000-05-06
US	50985587	R37IK2EL7Q1VH5	1583141065	43046138	A Very Special Love: The Key To My Heart\A Mother's Love\Maternal Instincts (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Very Special Love...EXCELLENT!	Janice Sims - &quot;The Keys To My Heart&quot; was such a beautiful story, interesting plot, very well developed and heartwarming. I loved Gabriel Merrick and how he and Kianna flirted with one another. The author keeps  the story flowing that you have no choice but to finish in one evening.  This story could have held its own as a single novel. Once again, you are  meeting up to the Janice Sims standard.<br />Courtni Wright - &quot;A Mother's  Love&quot; was a story I had the most difficulty reading and its only five  chapters. I found the presentation of this story did not flow well enough  for me, the author had the Jackie Peterson's character, who was alone for  Mothers' Day, going back and forth in time throughout the book, only  interacting mostly with her sister. Overall I just was unable to find any  reaction from this story.<br />Kayla Perrin - &quot;Maternal Instincts&quot; -  this was outstanding, a story of a young widow with a ten year old  daughter, best girlfriends and one handsome cop who also went to high  school with Lexy and her best girlfriends. I liked the way the author  developed this story, it flowed very easy, it was enjoyable and very  heartfelt by me personally. This story also, could have held its own as a  single novel. Thank you Kayla for a job well done!	2000-05-04
US	50985587	R1ZSL24JXMUYR0	1885478542	367930556	Truly Inseparable (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding!	I've read this book several times because I was so touched with this unconditional love story. This couple faced one of the most difficult times of their lives and that's the loss of a child to Sudden Infant Crib Death.  The author has done an outstanding performance in writing this story, every  page of this book flowed so gracefully with the love and dealing with the  loss. Even the secondary characters made this book good; the bookcover for  once actually seems to match the description of the couple's love for one  another. I strongly recommend to all the readers of romance to read this  book, I will say you will not be disappointed by no means. Ms. Thomas, I  look forward to your next one, because if you put the same spirit you did  with this one, you will have many more fans!	2000-05-01
US	50985587	R39IWIBRXQPOHF	188547895X	303927157	Mae's Promise (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very Impressed!	I read this book last year and decided to input some comments. The author gave a compelling story here about what goes on in the world of politics. Not just the issue of politics, but what goes on behind the issues. Here we  have Harold Williamson who is attempting to become a Congressman for his  district, then there's Mae Hendrickson who comes to help out in his  campaign headquarters and of course we can't leave out &quot;there's always  another woman&quot; the possessive campaign manager Ellen Green. The author  works this story to keep it interesting because I'll say Miss Campaign  Manager, Ellen, I totally did not like her at all and any woman out there  probably would not care for her. The presentation of this story is good,  every page is interesting and when you finally get to the end you'll be  pleased with the outcome. I'll say this, Mae illustrated the strong will of  faith, patience and love because she passed the test with flying honors.  Ms. Walcott, you did an outstanding job with this book, so as a new fan of  yours, I look forward to many more books from you.	2000-04-29
US	50985587	RQ7VSHO9FRZUR	1885478593	126041286	Cajun Heat (Indigo Series) (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Murder Mystery Seasoned With Romance!	This was, a first for me reading one of Charlene Berry's books.  Detective Symone Rawlins is requested to become apart of the team with FBI agent, Josiah La'Mon. Symone has to leave her home of Baltimore and go to  Louisiana. The first second Symone and Josiah meet, the sudden spark of  attraction hits them both. From the moment they meet, the story moves at a  pace that you never get bored. The author makes it so interesting for the  reader as we try to figure out who is behind these alleged serial murders  and it is defintely a twist of surprises. To my fellow readers, I think  you'll enjoy this romance/mystery type story with not a boring moment.  Looking forward to reading more novels by this author.	2000-04-29
US	50985587	R377CG6Q4TTD3V	0786004053	602797361	All the Right Reasons (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Janice Sims Has Another Hit!	Janice Sims has a way with words as she writes this romance, adventure, murder mystery novel. She seems to be able to craft a story of romance with the twists of excitement of adding mystery. This is what we get, Toni Shaw,  mother of twin daughters, Charles Waters, Toni's ex-lover and father of the  twins, and Clayton Knight the private investigator. So with these major  characters we get lots of humor, serious unresolved issues, major love  sparks and some dangerous murder attempts. All this wraps up to be one good  book that is worth every bit of time you give to read it all. I just have  one problem with this book, it leaves us with so many unresolved answers to  what happens to the major characters. But then again, I guess we just have  to patiently wait for Janice Sims to give us a sequel to find out! If you  like Janice Sims, check out some of these other published books of hers I  truly enjoyed: A Bittersweet Love, For Keeps, Out of the Blue, Love Letters  and Affair of the Heart.	2000-04-29
US	50985587	R2MH7GENAIYQ67	1885478569	899248270	Unconditional Love (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Story True To It's Title, &quot;Unconditional Love&quot;	I enjoyed this one!  Ms. Wiggins, for your first time novel, you did an outstanding job on this one. Imagine my fellow romance fans, meeting a handsome man at the cologne section of a department store?  Interesting,  I must say so myself. Well, Olivia Ross has this happen to her when she  encounters, Alexander &quot;Alex&quot; Deveraux. But of course she does not  make it easy for him my fellow readers, no, as a matter of fact, lets say  that's not the end of this beautiful story. In all good love stories there  comes aches and pains of a past, well this one is not short on that, but  the development of how the author builds this relationship makes a good  story. A good enough story I feel I enjoyed and others should do likewise.  Ms. Wiggins, you're very gifted here, and I hope we can expect another good  book from you very soon.	2000-04-29
US	50985587	R1H27KB37MHOYL	0786004428	769542048	After Dark (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Basketball Player and His Lady	Since this has been my re-read all of Bette Ford week, I decided to input comments.  I truly have enjoyed this book everytime I have read it, which is several times! Its a story about the professional basketball player,  Donald Williams who becomes suddenly attracted to Taylor Hendricks. Their  initial meeting in a restaurant is not a good one but its left some serious  sparkling attractions on both parties. But then every good story has to  have issues, RIGHT? Yes, Taylor has a younger brother who by the way is in  college. He has some decisions he is trying to make that seem to affect  this newfound relationship between Donald and Taylor. Well, my fellow  readers, you'll just have to read this book and need I say it has a plot  but then if you have read any of Ms. Ford's books it has those YES,  sizzling, hot, loving scenes. Ms. Ford always delivers to her readers and  you should enjoy this book. Here are some of her published books to read:  All The Love, For Always, Forever After and One of a Kind.	2000-04-26
US	50985587	R2IG4SCR9WHVYC	0786002115	890852466	Forever After (Arabesque)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	&quot;Forever After&quot; Another Good Ford Book!	I am on this re-read all of Bette Ford book week! I read this book last year but after re-reading it decided to input some comments. I have said this in a previous review that Ms. Ford is the only author I know who can  write some serious hot initimate scenes that include good plots. I mean the  main characters, Charles Randol and Diane Rivers, both work at the same  high school. Charles has the opinion of Diane that she flirts with men too  much and it actually angers Charles and that's because he really loves her.  But this story is more than just the hot initimate scenes, its about  letting go of your past, how the past affects your present everyday life,  the difficulities a person has in trusting their feelings to someone else,  dealing with jealousy and trust. These are just some of the issues that  this couple had to deal with throughout this book.  But the author wants us  to see just what these things can do to a relationship and how it gets  resolved. Now Ms. Ford is gifted my fellow readers, she can give you a  great storyline with some of the best hot loving scenes to not bore you. If  you think these kinds of stories are of interest to you, then check out  some of her other published books. **All The Love, For Always and After  Dark**	2000-04-26
US	50985587	R1D1Y0M3RB18MD	0786000937	48647818	For Always (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;For Always&quot; ...REAL GOOD STORY!	I have been on this re-read Bette Ford book kick for several weeks. Simply meaning I have read all of her books and just decided to re-read them all over again. Bette Ford is the best author who can provide a good plot to  her books with the most hottest love scenes, I mean she has the gift to do  both in one book. The scene takes place in Detroit, we have an attractive  high school counselor named Heather Gregory, a handsome successful attorney  named Quinn Montgomery and his daughter Cynthia who is troubled with her  relationship with her father. So the two plots involving Quinn dealing with  his wife's death, troubled daughter and the sudden attraction he has for  Heather, not to mention his troubled ulcer all makes an interesting story  topped off with those sizzling love scenes. I'll give Ms. Ford credit, she  does not write a boring story by no uncertain means.<br />So my fellow  readers, if you like a book with an interesting plot along with some  serious initimate scenes, this is the author that you want to read ALL of  her books! She's truly a gifted author who adds some serious flavor to her  books.<br />If you like this book, check out some of this author's other  published books: All The Love, Forever After and After Dark.<br />I hope Ms.  Ford has plans for a book in 2000 because she is long over due.	2000-04-26
US	50985587	R12QPOC0ZAHXFZ	0786003502	463918617	All the Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Good Book!	I read the review that said this was not one of Ms. Ford's best. I beg to differ, it is just what I expect. I am a true fan of her writing and will continue to support her always! It was this book that highlighted the  career of photojournalism which I felt was an interesting career. Ray  Coleman, photojournalist comes home after an accident. Amber Spencer,  director of a nursey school has a long history with Ray. This is like the  story with unresolved love issues between Ray and Amber. So here, we have a  book that deals with Ray and Amber's relationship both past and present,  then we have the secondary story of a dangerous man on the loose who causes  some serious problems. But the author, who manages to provide these two  stories in a way, that makes it in my opinion a very good story to read.  Now, I have said Ms. Ford is an author who can deliver those hot loving  scenes, and of course she does it again in this book. So to my fellow  readers, give this one a try, read it, its an easy read, not boring and  very good. If you enjoy Ms. Ford's work, check out these other published  books by her: One Of A Kind (a 1999 release), For Always, After Dark and  Forever After.	2000-04-26
US	50985587	R17BWVHK8XX676	1583141030	115620801	Just Before Dawn (Arabesque)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Rochelle Alers Has Done It Again!	I have become one of Ms. Alers loyal fans, having read all of her published novels and as usual I am proud to say she is truly outstanding! Rochelle Alers, for many years has brought us many stories about the  Hideaway Legacy Clan. As the Second Generation Continues with family and  friends, she brings us Sara Sterling (Max and Eve Blackwell-Sterling's  daughter) and Salem Lassiter.<br />If you are a long time favorite of Rochelle  Alers books, then you will not be disappointed as she delivers this in the  same charisma as the others. If you are new to her work, it won't matter  too much for you to read the sequels out of order and read this one.<br />This  book will offer a strong couple, Sara and Salem, the suspense of  life-threatening danger, betrayal, lots of intimacy and the support of  family. Both the major and minor plots will keep your interested all the  way to the end.  The author is extremely good in the details of Native  American History, because here is a culture that has been solely tied with  African Americans, the book provides such precise details, that you don't  have to go to the library for the information, you can just read this book  and gain so much more. <br />Thank you Rochelle, for providing your readers  with the use of your gift of writing, you are truly appreciated and we look  forward to your next published novel.<br />Here are some of my favorite  published books by Rochelle Alers: Hideaway, Home Sweet Home, Summer Magic,  Hidden Agenda, Vows, Heaven Sent, Summer Magic, Harvest Moon and Gentle  Yearning.	2000-04-24
US	50985587	R18JIVTGZPQ4WV	1885478070	851107974	Breeze (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If Love Is Meant To Be, Nothing Can Stop It!	This is about a couple who meet as teenagers and go through the trials and tribulations. They are faced with deception, career choices, love lost and love found. The author did a fantastic performance in bringing us a story  about Alexander (Also called, &quot;Lex&quot;) and Breeze. A love so strong  between two people that nothing actually kept them apart but they had some  serious roads to travel. This is a fast-paced book with a very good  storyline that you should enjoy. I enjoyed every chapter and hated to see  it end. But all good books must end sooner or later. This was my first time  reading a book by this author and look foward to reading more of her work.	2000-04-16
US	50985587	R3SR7LZGRQ4Q81	1583140980	200645694	Swept Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Awesome Love Story!	If you have ever been impacted by family secrets during your adulthood, then this is a book you will enjoy reading. This was such an interesting book done so well by this author, giving you nothing but a memorable story  about Veronica Overton and Schyler Henderson. The book offers the reader  both major and minor stories that binding them together makes such an  enjoyable book to read. When you get to the last page you should be in a  position to say it was well worth the read. Gwynne Forster mostly deals  with issues that may for the most part be experienced by a more mature  audience but even if you're younger there are some valuable life lessons to  be found in all of her books. If you enjoy this one and have not read some  of her other published books check these out: Beyond Desire, Fools Rush In,  Obsession, Naked Soul, Against The Wind, Against All Odds, Ecstasy and  Sealed With A Kiss.	2000-04-16
US	50985587	REMNJ3TYJZSO4	1583140123	224741395	Summer Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Magic of A Summer Vacation	As a Rochelle Alers fan, I can only say she delivers asusual. If you are new to this author she has a way with her novelsthat captures the reader as if they are in the story.  Here two people meet by ending up sharing the same summer home but that does not mean they enjoyed this at first. I enjoyed the way the author develops the relationship with Caryn and Logan because they have no choice but to become attracted towards one another.  The book has lots of humor and intimacy to keep the reader interested. If you are new to Rochelle Alers check out some of her other great books: Home Sweet Home, Island Magic, Harvest Moon, Hidden Agenda, Vows, Hideaway Legacy and Happily Ever After.  END	2000-04-16
US	50985587	R2JSWYMSZ6KJ6S	1583140999	246113072	Star Crossed (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Star Crossed Was True Love and Passion Put Together!	I have enjoyed all of Francine Craft's books because each one has its own unusual plot. If you like a book where you can unsolve a murder, then this is the one. Lance Carrington although acquitted of his wife's murder, still  is very uncomfortable with this cloud of suspicion hanging over him. Fairen  Wilder, faternal twin sister of Lance's wife accepts the challenge to  assist Lance as he tries to clear his name. If you enjoy playing detective  and putting all the clues together to come up with &quot;who-done-it&quot;  then this is a book to read. The author has you putting clues together all  the way to the end. This book may be comtemporary romance but it has the  seasoning of murder, secrets, lies, cover-ups and lots of initimate  romantic scenes. I truly can say I enjoyed this one and encourage others  who may not have taken the leap of faith on Francine Craft's books and give  this one a read, I don't feel you'll be disappointed. If you like the books  that have murder type mysteries or solving kipnapping matters check out  these other two published books by Francine Craft: Lyrics of Love (a slow  read but its good) and Still In Love. Also, another one about long lost  love relationships that takes place in Alaska..read Francine Craft's  &quot;Devoted&quot;.	2000-04-11
US	50985587	R37MYUOWZN3N5F	1583140980	200645694	Swept Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Awesome Love Story!	If you have ever been impacted by family secrets during your adulthood,  then this is a book you will want to read. This was such an interesting  book done so well by this author giving you nothing but a memorable story  about Veronica Overton and Schyler Henderson. The book offers the reader  both major and minor plots that binding them together makes such an  enjoyable book to read. When you get to that last page you should be in a  position to say it was well worth the read. Gwynne mostly deals with issues  that may be experienced by a more mature audience but even if you're  younger there are some interesting life lessons present in her books. If  you enjoy this one and have not read some of her other published books  check out these: Beyond Desire, Fools Rush In, Obsession, Naked Soul,  Against The Wind, Against All Odds, Ecstasy and Sealed With A Kiss.	2000-04-08
US	50985587	R27RN0FBX0UUVO	1583141006	202803461	Destiny (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Josephine and Hannibal - Destined For One Another!	To all my fellow romance readers, let me say this first hand, this book does not have the steamy love scenes, however, the book is very good!  Shelby Lewis has written such a compelling story of a drifter named  Hannibal Ray and a recluse woman name Josephine Brennon that takes place in  Texas and Oklahoma. The way this author developes the relationship between  Hannibal and Josephine kept me deeply interested until the final page.  Although I have gotten accustomed to the initimate scenes I really enjoyed  the creativeness Ms. Lewis uses to make us feel the intimacy that occurs  between Hannibal and Josephine in lieu of the actual descriptive words. If  you like stories that involve tuff men who don't take no mess from anyone,  a woman who illustrates just how tuff she can be and how she trust Hannibal  enough to come into her life, lies, secrets, betrayal and of course love  sparks. Then, you'll enjoy reading this book. This was my first book I have  read by Shelby Lewis and since I enjoyed it so much I look forward to  reading more of her work.	2000-04-08
US	50985587	R1ZPKK7TTZAR6Q	1885478127	996447292	Yesterday Is Gone (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Impressed!	I truly enjoyed this story and it was well done by Ms. Clark. The research that she puts into the storyline leaves the reader feeling the pain Augusta must endure and the painful guilt that the Hero must experience. To not give the subject of the plot away, you will find at the end the full  awareness of the subject matter and the growing deep love that was  developed between this couple. If you like Beverly Clark's work check out  her other two books: A Love To Cherish and The Price of Love.	2000-04-06
US	50985587	RFW7WTGRD19E7	1885478356	604684582	A Love to Cherish (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Love To Cherish	I enjoyed this book for the mere fact that it involved the past relationship of college sweethearts and the choices they made. We often find ourselves making decisions based on the influences of our parents not knowing at the time what price we'll have to pay. Well Tracey Hamilton and  Cornell Robertson experienced at first hand but now their sudden meeting  after many years brings nothing but the test of true love. If you just  enjoy stories dealing with these type of relationships, sacrifices, trying  to be loyal to family and just love of the heart, this can be an  interesting story to read.  Some of my other favorites by Beverly Clark  are: The Price of Love and Yesterday Is Gone.	2000-04-06
US	50985587	R2MMHN2WZUSPZY	1585710091	782559751	All I Ask (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How Do I Trust Again?	I like the stories that address when someone has been betrayed and they have to learn to trust again with the love of their heart. (It's risky business) Ms Keaton, with her debut novel does just that with Deborah  Anderson betrayed by her boyfriend Mario, meets Darrin Wilson, who at first  sight knows she is the woman for him. But trust and giving herself to love  again does not come easy for Deborah. Ms. Keaton does an excellent job by  giving us her version of how letting go of that fear, and letting the love  just do what it is suppose to do. Darrin Wilson is definetly the one to  give Deborah Anderson the test of her life. The presentation of this story,  is an easy read, funny, loving and sincere which all adds up to a very good  book to read. I truly enjoyed reading a book about sites and familiar  places in Chicago where I onced resided. Congratulations Ms. Keaton on your  first novel and looking forward to many more novels from you!	2000-04-02
US	50985587	R17P8RU2UUYT62	1583140980	200645694	Swept Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Awesome Love Story!	If you have ever been impacted by family secrets during your adulthood, then this is a book by Gwynne Forster you will want to read. This was such an interesting book done so well by this author giving us a memorable story  about Veronica Overton and Schyler Henderson. We are honored that the  author has given us the major storyline along with some minor ones that  together makes such an enjoyable book to read. When you finally reach that  last page you will say it was well worth the read and happy for the  outcome. This was an even more special book for me as I had the pleasure of  meeting this fantastic author and actually had this book autographed by  her. I have read all of Gwynne Forster's books where for the most part  address issues experienced by adults but I encourage others to check out  some of her books (no matter what your age may be) such as Beyond Desire,  Fools Rush In, Obsession, Naked Soul, Against The Wind, Against All Odds  and Sealed With A Kiss.	2000-03-29
US	50985587	R2Q2MSGQA11PP7	1583141006	202803461	Destiny (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Josephine and Hannibal - Destined For One Another	To all my fellow romance readers, let me say this first hand, this book does not have the steamy love scenes however, it is very good!  Shelby Lewis has written such a compelling story of a drifter name Hannibal Ray  and a reclusive woman name Josephine Brennon that takes place in Texas and  Oklahoma. The way this author developes the relationship between Hannibal  and Josephine kept me glued to this story until the final page. Although I  have gotten accustomed to the initmate scenes I really enjoyed the creative  way Ms. Lewis uses to make us feel the inimate scenes in lieu of the actual  descriptive words. If you like stories that have tuff men who don't take no  mess from anyone, a woman who is tuff in her own way but welcomed someone  like Hannibal into her life, lots of lies, secrets, betrayal and of course  the love that sparks between the main characters...Then, this is one you  must read. This was my first book I have read by Shelby Lewis and since I  enjoyed it so much I look forward to reading more of her work. If you enjoy  books with family secrets besides this one, check out these releases: Swept  Away by Gwynne Forster, A Forever Passion by Angela Winters and Scandalous  by Donna Hill.	2000-03-29
US	50985587	RC0S2HRWK33D9	0385498446	867133936	Redemption Song: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Spiritually Uplifting!	Books can really influence your life as this one has done its job. I was moved with tears as I read every single page of Ms. Berry's debut fiction novel. This book is more than outstanding it's like Ms Berry was given this  as a message for all of us to take a look back in order to move forward. If  you are looking for the type of book that will make you dig deep down into  your soul and look at life different..This is a MUST READ. I can only ask  that she continue with what she has started with this one because you have  just tipped the ice on the message you've shared. This is one that I will  always be led back to read over and over. Thanks Bertice for an awesome  book and I look forward to many more like this one.	2000-03-27
US	50985587	RSDYUWWPPYRAY	1585710075	796804897	Best of Friends (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Love Between Best Friends	Congratulations Natalie Dunbar for an outstanding first novel. Best friends Ramon Richards and Mariah McCleary show us in their story how love can spark right among the best of friends. Ramon shows his support and love  for Mariah after her fiancee decides to get cold feet. But the moment Ramon  finally gets courage to express his true feelings to Mariah, her fears kick  in and she finds it extrememly difficult to accept his expressions of love.  But anyone reading this story will appreciate how well Ms Dunbar uses her  talent in developing the love between Mariah and Ramon, along with the  minor storylines of the secretary, the designer and the trail that Ramon is  involved with all adds to a great story. Overall I enjoyed the entire book  and look forward to many more by this author.	2000-03-23
US	50985587	R72GDL3JZJ403	1583140778	833487913	A Forever Passion (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another One Of Angela Winters' Best!	I was not surprised of how well I enjoyed this book because actually, I have enjoyed all of the books by Ms. Winters. This is one that will keep you turning the pages until the very end and then you'll hate its over. If  you like books that have family issues, suspense, secrets, deceit, intimacy  and an interesting plot.. THIS IS THE BOOK TO READ. If you have read an  Angela Winters book, then she delivers in this one as she did with the  others. It may fall in the romance genre but it has the touch of real  drama. To those who have not read a book written by Ms Winters please  select this one you will not be disappointed. Some of my other favorites by  Ms Winters are: Sudden Love, Island Promise and Only You.	2000-03-13
US	50985587	RE0Q3RQ4PVSPG	1583140719	473511981	Say You Love Me (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enjoyed The Finale'	If you like novels that deal with the ups and downs of marriage, this is one to read. Thanks Ms Byrd for bringing the sequel that includes Christian, Jordan, Alex and Malcolm. The story has both the seriousness and  the intimacy which I truly like in a story. The book is a very easy read,  very enjoyable and heartwarming.  Some of my other favorite books by this  author: I Promise, Forget Me Not and Defenseless.	2000-03-13
US	50985587	R2RITVDK5D8GPY	1583140751	404981857	Real Love (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love Eventually Captures Nick and Monique!	This was a slow read for me basically because there was too much time spent on Monique's difficulty with being adopted. She allowed her ex-fiance to feed in her mind that because she was adopted that she was not good  enough for him. In allowing this to weigh her down she permitted to not let  Nick know the truth at the very beginning of their initial relationship. So  here Monique proceeds everyday with building this wall between her and Nick  because she placed him in a category like her ex-fiance. To top it off,  both Nick and Monique really loved each other and just did not take the  necessary steps by just being honest with one another from the very  beginning.  I would have preferred at least earlier in the book for Monique  to just come clean with Nick, the same as he should have about the land  matter. It really disturbs me anyway that the grandmother would put a  condition as to the first one who gets married gets the land. The  grandmother is to blame for putting the two cousins at odds with each other  in the first place. I don't necessarily prefer that the instituion of  marriage had to be used to one, save Monique's business and secondly allow  Nick with the opportunity to obtain the family land. I enjoyed the overall  plot but just felt that too much time was spent addressing the adoption  part. I enjoyed the re-visit of Nick's brother Parker and his wife Daniella  who were introduced in their story, &quot;Love By Design&quot;	2000-03-06
US	50985587	R15MYA6X1GCZUE	1583140840	393756427	A Bittersweet Love	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Teddy and Joachim, A Love Destined To Happen!	I have read all of the books ever written by Janice Sims. Each novel has its own unique storyline like this one about Ballycastle, Ireland. At first when I began reading this story, it was a slow read but I soon became aware  as to why. The author has to allow the reader to visualize the country of  Ireland and its cultural unique ways. So for me it was like taking a  history class about Ireland. I enjoyed the characters who made this such an  enjoyable book, Joachim, his friend Conal, housekeeper Kathleen, Teddy  (Thedora), Teddy's father, son Alex and of course even the ex-husband  Adrian. Together they weave an excellent story about love lost to death,  love not appreciated, sacrifices one makes for the love of a son and the  spark of two people both needing love from one another. Ms Sims, captures  all of this in Teddy and Joachim's love story. As you take your time  reading this story, you will feel the spirit of Ireland, San Francisco and  Carmel-By-The Sea along with Joachim finally letting go of his love lost to  Teddy's finally finding someone to love her as she deserves. Thanks Janice,  for once again giving us your creative insight for a story that makes its  beginning in the heart of Ballycastle, Ireland. **Some of my other favorite  Janice Sims novels were: For Keeps, Out of the Blue, Affair of the Heart  and All The Right Reasons**	2000-03-02
US	50985587	R1QBMOSSMJ4VLH	1583140506	345408604	Forbidden Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mallory Heart Meets Her Match!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of the books ever written by Ms Mason. Body and Soul was one of my favorite's but this one dedicated to Mallory Heart who made her debut in Foolish Hearts has taken center stage. I enjoyed this book basically because I knew in Foolish Heart there was  more deep seated issues with Mallory that caused her to be so mean  spirited. Well Ms Mason brings a story to us that forces us to see it at  first hand how Mallory's life is transformed. Of course, we had to have a  handsome man involved which happens to be Clint and then there is always a  refree who happens to be Bailey as his job is to show Clint and Mallory the  errors of their ways. This story offers us, laughter at the way  Mallory  keeps putting her foot in her mouth, understanding of how both the lives of  Mallory and Clint are similar. They both fight hard at trying to control  the feelings but in the end, well you got to read the story and find out!  But Ms Mason has done a fantastic job by illustrating this story to us and  what can happen when you foster deep seated feelings and the impact it can  have on your life. Mallory and Clint are good for each other, the only  downside is the book was TOO SHORT!	2000-02-29
US	50985587	R1Z57NLPDZOLEE	1583140832	763386051	Precious Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Heartwarming Story!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of the books ever written by Doris Johnson and the one under Gloria Greene. I always appreciate reading books by Doris Johnson, because she develops strong women who can not be just  pushed around, she does not take all day to get to the outline of the  story, both major characters usually develop their feelings early enough in  the story so you can enjoy the relationship developing before you get to  the last chapter. In saying this I truly enjoyed a story of how one feels  when an organ from a loved one goes to someone else. It was a hard thing to  take for Diamond to have her mother be an organ donor, especially since she  did not agree with this decision. But Doris has presented us a story by  showing us the impact of Diamond's personal investigation of who received  her mother's heart. The storyline was very well done, I liked seeing it  taken in Charleston, South Carolina and the awareness it gave me about the  organ donor program. Besides the main subject of this story, I truly  enjoyed the chemistry between Diamond and Steven, the way they communicated  with each other and of course the intimacy that took place. It occured to  me as I was reading this story just how important it was for Diamond to be  present in the Rumford home, not only did she bring peace but she forced  this family to deal with issues they may never have done. It is clear to  say that everyone does play significant roles in our lives as Diamond did  so in this book. But this book is a very easy and enjoyable read plus it is  an excellent means of awareness of the organ donor program. Doris, you did  a fantastic job with this story and we look forward to your next project.  Check out Doris's other recent novella book, Cupid's Arrow, &quot;A  Passionate Moment&quot;. You should enjoy this one also.	2000-02-29
US	50985587	R12EAI9YWHI3QJ	1583140859	493324831	Masquerade (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Agent and His Beauty!	I have read all of Crystal's books but this one seems to be her best. I enjoyed this book because it had intimacy, danger and humor. I found as this story began it immediately took life right into the plot, not wasting  any time for the reader. Clint and Madison's attraction is real, very  intimate and they are quite humorous together. Even in the midst of danger  they still find ways to give each other &quot;kisses&quot;!  I admire the  creativeness the author has done with this story about the agent, the drug  lord and the house sitter. This is an easy one day read that you will  enjoy. Congratulations to my homegirl for this one was GREAT!	2000-02-29
US	50985587	RLL3MTUJGDUT1	1583140506	345408604	Forbidden Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mallory Heart Meets Her Match!	I have had the pleasure of reading all of the books ever written by Ms Mason. Body and Soul was one of my favorites but this one dedicated to Mallory Heart who made her debut in Foolish Heart has taken center stage. I  enjoyed this book basically because I knew in Foolish Heart there was more  deep seated issues with Mallory that caused her to be so mean spirited.  Well Ms Mason brings a story to us that forces us to see it at first hand  how Mallory's life is transformed. Of course, we had to have a handsome man  involved which happens to be Ellis and then there is always a refree who  happens to be Bailey as his job is to show Ellis and Mallory the errors of  their ways. This story offers us, laughter at the way Mallory keeps putting  her foot in her mouth, understanding of how both the lives of Mallory and  Ellis are similar. They both fight hard at trying to control the feelings  but in the end, well you got to read the story and find out! But Ms Mason  has done a fantastic job by illustrating this story to use and what can  happen when you foster deep seated feelings and the impact it can have on  your life. Mallory and Ellis are good for each other, the only downside is  the book was TOO SHORT!	2000-02-29
US	50985587	RJYKMF21DDCT9	1885478909	979318857	Against the Wind (Love Spectrum Romance)	Books	5	20	28	N	N	What a fantastic story!	I have to say to date I have not read a Gwynne Forster book that I did not enjoy. This was a story that was colorless in a sense, I mean the story could have been about any man and woman no matter what color. But one of  the important factors here is the aftermath of the tragedy that Leslie  encountered. I have to assume, since it was not addressed in the story,  that Leslie did not seek any counseling after this incident and trial. So  for five long years she carried this fear of someone threatning to kill  her. Well as it goes with out saying, lack of Leslie seeking professional  help made an impact on her feelings about romance and any other decisions  involving men period. Sure it may seem like at times Leslie was in her rare  by being unreasonable and senseless but we must realize that her decisions  were being affected by her past demons that she had not dealt with at all.  So really Jordon, who was a very patient loving man played a significant  role in Leslie's recovery. Just think in life how we help each other  overcome major incidents in our lives. I think Gwynne Forster wants us to  receive this book with the understanding how important it is to clean house  of your demons, that love cannot be controlled no matter what color you are  and there comes a time in life that you must trust someone. The author has  done an extremely outstanding job of displaying such a tender, patient,  loving story that just happens to be about an interracial couple but offers  so much more than just the issue of race but shows us another illustration  of love. I have to agree with Ms Forster, I was in the cheering section  routing for Jordon to finally win the heart of Leslie.	2000-02-13
US	50985587	R2MSFT3EQ9W4V2	1583140298	179120335	A Taste Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Daring Romantic Adventure!	Loure' Bussey once again, has managed to give us an outstanding performance with her writing of this novel. I truly enjoyed this story and felt, never say you can not meet the love of your life while on the job.  Nia faced so many hurdles but in the midst of it all she was able to find  love, faith, courage and the opportunity to use her given talent, all from  her chance meeting of Roland Davenport. The blending of the remaining  characters in this book compliment to the entire overall affects of this  story. It's full of romantic scenes, twists, surprises and yes a taste of  adventure. Loved Nia and Roland, Suzanne, well she has serious issues that  need special attention and Kal, well he did redeem himself finally! Love to  see the woman who will grab Kal's attention, maybe this can be a future  story?  If you have read other books by this author, than please check this  one out, you will enjoy it!	1999-12-13
US	50985587	RIOBJHVD1W7SQ	1583140581	201241744	Spellbound (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A True Love Story	Ms Savoy your debut novel is a definite winner! I truly love the sparks that are between Ariel and Jarad. You just never know how those childhood friends of yours will turn out as adults. In this case, Martha's Vineyard  set a true romantic scene for the making of this couple. Even the other  characters in this story added as a compliment to the overall flow of  Spellbound. This was one of those comfortable romance novels that was an  easy smooth reading and very, very romantic! If this debut novel, is a  taste of your best writing skills, then we have so much to look forward to  in the new millennium from you!	1999-12-13
US	50985587	R11K31FDJBS1LO	158314059X	575031317	Distant Memories (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	True Love Is Like A Circle, Let It Go and It Will Return!	This was not one of Ms Stanhope's normal juicy romantic novels but I truly enjoyed how she captured this plot of dealing with spousal abuse. It is a very heart warming story where you can't help but be like a cheerleader for  Racquel as she seeks towards finding some happiness. You never know in life  how someone you cared for from your past who moves away can re-enter your  life when you least expect. This story is defintely full of surprises and  has a twist of suspense that adds a flavor of interest to this book. The  only thing missing is the ending seemed to be cut short, as though another  chapter or epilogue could have been added.	1999-12-13
US	50985587	R1E7SBCJ3IGS7G	1583140573	529910796	Violets Are Blue (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love Returns For An Encore!	The author has done an outstanding job of writing the continuation from Roses Are Red. I truly enjoyed how the author shows us how someone with unresolved love issues and misunderstandings can be a perfect mix for a  perfect ending. The encore of these two old friends, Arlisa and Brad, is  exciting, funny and has such an intense development of the love they share  so deep in their hearts. Life situations, cause you to just step out there  on faith and take that risk on someone you love, and this story illustrates  just that by teaching Arlisa and Brad both to trust each other. This story  had a surprising plot that will be interesting to all the readers.	1999-12-13
US	50985587	RMUVT3LUKNQGN	1583140697	360508043	The Look Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	True Love Is For Everybody!	If you have either experienced or presently live the life of a plus-size woman and felt true love is just not for you. This is the book to read! Ms Jackson has taken the time to provide in this story all the necessary tools  a woman must take when she takes the journey of discovery herself. The  story offers hope, faith, a new and refreshing outlook, encouragement,  strength of endurance, lots of laughs and lastly love. I truly enjoyed this  story and how well it was written and thank Monica for doing a story such  as this one, its a story that should make women who are facing this today  feel real good about themselves after reading it.	1999-12-05
US	50985587	R1J6ZRRZG4Y8B1	1583140530	624882833	A Love Of Her Own (Arabesque)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An Outstanding Story!	This is a pure illustration for all the women in the world who are facing infertility, a must read story by Ms Griffin. Ava is faced to come to terms  with this major issue when the man of her future, Hilton White, comes into  her life. As this relationship develops, she is forced to come to grips  with dealing with her problem. The supporting characters of this story  helps tremendously, finally allowing Ava to not only gain the courage to  accept her infertility but finds the blessing of love brings her alot more  than she even imagined.  We had not heard from Bettye Griffin since  &quot;At Long Last Love&quot;, and the wait was well worth it as she puts  her heart into this special story. Thanks for showing us the courage this  woman endures by fighting the issues of infertility.	1999-11-02
US	50985587	R1SC3IQTRRONXW	1583140492	108232257	Under A Blue Moon (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding!	Ms Harrison, it was well worth the wait since you did Picture Perfect and I truly enjoyed that story. Well you outdid yourself and once again you have written quite an interesting story which was an easy to follow plot  that did not have a boring moment. This is one of those &quot;read in one  day novels.&quot; Angie and Matt are brought together where they both  battle personal issues and in this battle they end up helping one another  and finding love with each other. I agree with the comment Angie makes to  Matt that she would not have changed anything that had happen because it  would not have provided them with the opportunity to meet and find love  with each other. This is a perfect illustration to us that often times life  deals us a hand and it may seem as though it doesn't make sense but then  the higher force reveals his true plans and well..lets say to my fellow  readers Angie and Matt demonstrate the message very well in this story.  Also to my fellow romance readers I think Ms Harrison must be putting her  pen to work again because I see another story developing with Jill and Reed  from this one plus we need to have an update on Matt and Angie. ACCOLADES  TO SHIRLEY HARRISON.	1999-10-02
US	50985587	R3EKDFV8A4XZXJ	0786001615	283744454	Hearts Afire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Surprising and Interesting Plot!	I want to say to Ms Gilmore you did an outstanding job with the plot for this story. The explanation which is provided on the back of the book does no justice to the inside of the book. This was one of the most interesting  high adventures involving two young greedy men who get caught up with mob  business affecting more lives than you can believe. To not give the story  away to future readers, the hero, Dante Lattimore, who falls in love with  Celeste Dunbar leads a double life which his profession includes the  involement of not only Celeste but also other relatives of Celeste being  all caught up in this twisted mob-plot. This was very well written, fast  paced, where any reader should not be bored but the outcome will be a  surprise as I was very surprised about Tom the cousin of the mobster. So to  my fellow readers this is a story you should enjoy and perhaps for you  fast-paced readers one you can finish reading in one day. I hope Ms Gilmore  continues to write these type of stories as this one will remain one of my  favorites!	1999-09-24
US	50985587	R4ALUUGS00ZWT	1583140379	271319125	Fools Rush In (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AN INTENSE STORY WITH BETRAYAL, PASSION &amp; COURAGE	Ms Forster once again has done an outstanding job of writing such an intense story that seems to lure the reader into the story like being caught up in a web. As you read this story you seem to feel the betrayal  that both Justine and Duncan sustain from their spouses; the pain Justine  has to deal with from the decision she is forced to make for giving her  daughter up for adoption and the courage she had to display for becoming  the nanny for Duncan, who had adopted her daughter. The development of this  story is one to read and realize how when life deals you a hand you have to  play it out the best you can. Readers take the moment to read this story  and find out how love was the ruling factor for secrets between Duncan and  Justine.	1999-09-03
US	50985587	R16U0NV59DRZX0	1583140344	763267373	For Keeps (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AN EXCITING HEART WARMING ROMANCE!	Janice Sims did a fantastic job of illustrating the long-standing love Chey had for Jackson. It is often difficult for a woman to state her feelings for a man right up front as Chey did but the response from Jackson  made Chey's effort worth while. This story conveyed to us how important  communication is between a man and a woman. Also both Chey's mother and  brother provided here with two options on approaching Jackson, I was more  in agreement with the brother mainly because he was Jackson's best friend  and was more in a position to know how he would respond and as for her  mother her advice was being based on her experience with her father and the  story reveals what happen from taking her mother's advice, however, overall  Chey's longstanding love won! This illustrates to us when making decisions  you must look at it on a case by case basis and see what is more suiting  for your situation. Although I have never been to Montanta or a ranch as  described in this book, I truly felt like I was there. You did an excellent  job on this story and we look forward to your next novel.	1999-09-02
