US	50983162	R3O3XKE2BAEVAN	0520206266	179129556	Nationalism and the Nordic Imagination: Swedish Art of the 1890s	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Reading to Understand Modern Sweden	While this book is ostensibly about Swedish art, it really delves, sometimes rather offhandedly, into an investigation of the intellectual underpinnings of modern Sweden.  Particularly enlightening is the perspective it throws regarding why Sweden, as an ethnically homogeneous country undergoing a major shift from an agrarian to an urbanized society and with a lively interest, not to say an obsession, with its own cultural roots, never went down the same road that Germany went down after 1870.   <br /> <br />As such the book is worthwhile for anybody interested in the development of modern Swedish culture, and in fact it is eminently more readable than most other books I've seen on the subject, while still being authoritative.	2005-02-16
US	50983162	R6B9PUMJQSWWU	0691119805	260804612	Mirror of His Beauty: Feminine Images of God from the Bible to the Early Kabbalah (Jews, Christians, and Muslims from the Ancient to the Modern World)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Surprisingly Antiseptic	I can't say that I disliked this book.  It provides a compendium and a tabulation of a wealth of material regarding the history of the Divine Feminine in the Christian and Jewish traditions, starting with the wisdom literature in the bible and going through the later Middle Ages.  Along the way it reviews the thoughts of Philo and the Kabbalah in this area, and provides some data on the phenomenon of Mariology in Western Medieval Christianity. <br /> <br />On the whole, though, I found the book to be long on data and short on insight.  One gets the feeling that Professor Schafer fears to offend his Jewish and Christian readers by pursuing the possibility that they actually may have had an effect on each other's religious thought. <br /> <br />Also, despite the subtitle of this book, there is virtually nothing about the Islamic contribution to this phenomenon, an omission that I suspect may be crucial.  The figure of the Divine Feminine is very important in much Islamic mystical literature from the Middle Ages, and not least of all in Spain, where it would have had considerable influence certainly on Jewish circles, and very likely on Christian ones as well. <br /> <br />In short, if you're looking for a thumbnail sketch of the Feminine Images of God in pre-modern western thought, this book is fine, but you will not walk away with any in-depth understanding of the subject.	2005-01-28
US	50983162	R29CJIDHU4MIUD	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	2	68	115	N	N	You Have to Believe	With 187 reviews already on Amazon for this book and counting, I ask myself why I bother offering one more opinion, but as a believing man who is not a Muslim, but who has considerable sympathy with Muslims, I feel it incumbent to add my views on this. <br /> <br />One might be justified in calling this book \\"Why I Don't believe in Organized Religion\\", since many if not most of the comments in this book can be transferred in one way or another to any institutional religion, despite the fact that the subject under the microscope is Islam. <br /> <br />That Muhammad's morality is open to question from several angles is not exactly a new theme for Western writers.  One thing that is missing in the analysis, however, is a little more perspective about what it is that prophets do.  On the matter of Muhammad's summary dealings with recalcitrant inhabitants of the Arabian peninsula, we should bear in mind that the Judges in the Old Testament were not any more lenient; rather the contrary.  As for the question of Muhammad's sexual practices, a comparison with David and Bathsheeba would not be out of line. My point is that figures like David or Gideon are not considered any less prophets or judges because of their activities; it is rather up to the believer to sort out what their behavior is supposed to mean.  On the whole, I couldn't resist the feeling that the base perspective of this book is that Muhammad cannot be a holy man, because he is not like Jesus.  Well, that's very true; he isn't like Jesus.  Nobody ever said that he was, and there's no reason why he should be. <br /> <br />As for the Quran, it is not fair to accuse it of having no historical perspective.  True, most Muslims believe that it is historically accurate, but the point is that it is not primarily supposed to be a \\"history.\\"  It is a sacred book, and to the believer its primary purpose is to save, not to satisfy our historical interests.  Westerners have spent so much of the last two hundred years trying to parse out the historical context of their own scriptures that they have managed to disembody the Bible of its saving graces; to criticize Muslims for not doing the same thing with the Quran is unfair. <br /> <br />The further into the book the more bemused I felt.  I saw no purpose bringing up a poet like Ma'ari; it is true that he was a cynic who saw no virtue in Islam, or any other religion for that matter, but on the whole the fact that a man like that could flourish in medieval Islam is a testament to the relative broadmindedness of the culture rather than anything else.  As for the brief survey on Sufism, I sincerely doubt that most Sufis, modern or medieval, would be comfortable with the idea that they believed what they believed in spite of what Islam taught.  If they neglected the sharia it was because they had found something more valuable. <br /> <br />In the final analysis, all religions bear the mark of the society and affinities of the people who practice them.  In general, Islam's \\"center of gravity\\" from a moralistic point of view, if one can use the term, is that all things are permissible but all things need to be kept under control.  It is a different morality from Christianity.  It doesn't necessarily make it any worse. <br /> <br />Regarding the author, allow me to make a speculation.  \\"Ibn Warraq\\" is, of course, a pen name, meaning \\"son of paper\\", which is a time-honored soubriquet in the Middle East.  The author is incredibly well-versed in Western perceptions of Islam, much more so than most Middle Easterners that I have ever met.  I suspect that despite the information provided, the writer is not a Middle Easterner.   <br /> <br />Which is not to say that he is not entitled to his own opinion, of course.  Still, one does wonder.	2005-01-27
US	50983162	R1YM57WTEDMWVL	0865165548	978841751	An Introduction to Greek	Books	4	47	47	N	N	The Old School	I originally used this book in college to learn Classical Greek, which I studied with a 78 year old Jesuit.  It was probably the same book he initially learned Greek from.  It dates from the time when Greek studies were losing ground in American academia, but when any educated college graduate worth his salt was still expected to have a smattering of the language.  And it was typical of that period:  short lessons, each one of them full of grammatical meat to digest.  Paradigms, lots of 'em.  The unspoken assumption that you already had some Latin, probably four years of it at the high school level, and so you were used to the drill.  Cute little Classical cultural asides, the type designed to keep a young student's interest up.  Short excerpts from Plato, Heroditus, the playwrights, and of course Xenophon, the Greek student's first companion. <br /> <br />I'm glad I held on to it.  When I went back to relearn in earnest the Greek I learned so badly while in school, it was the most useful source I had.  I have run across many other books to learn Attic Greek, but I always keep going back to this one.  Somewhere within its covers there is an explanation for everything in the language. <br /> <br />The somewhat antiquated format may not appeal to you, unless you like that kind of thing (I do), but if you've already used some other book on learning Classical Greek, I have no doubt that you will find this book useful as a supplement and reference.	2004-10-04
US	50983162	R1NJEEUQFZ5IZU	0892813555	615080714	Voices of the First Day: Awakening in the Aboriginal Dreamtime	Books	2	22	37	N	N	At Least it Gets You in the Door	Mr. Lawlor did a lot of research in preparing his book.  He manages to extract a lot of anthropological data and present it in an interesting, readable fashion, particularly in the second section of his book on Aboriginal folkways.  Perhaps the data is out of date, as some other reviewers have indicated; I really can't say, but the parts of the book dealing with this at least seem reasonable.<br />Unfortunately, once Mr. Lawlor departs from the straight and narrow you'll find yourself in a world of truly bizarre speculations on the nature of dreamtime, Aboriginal sensitivity to the magnetic field of the earth, the continent of Mu and all other sorts of lunatic New Age stuff, all of which pull the rug out on whatever parts of this book are arguably informative.<br />At best, one can say that books like this serve some purpose in that they inspire a new generation to go into anthropological research, rather like the old &quot;Flash Gordon&quot; serial no doubt inspired some people to go into nuclear physics.  For this reason I'll give the book two stars.  It could've been worse, as readers of &quot;Mutant Message&quot; would know.	2004-07-08
US	50983162	R6BBNSPLMUKY4	0722503059	946047073	Sufism: The Mystical Doctrines and Methods of Islam	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Best Introduction	When I first encountered this little book I thought that it was some sort of book for children - it was so short, I reasoned, that it couldn't be anything else.<br />After reading it I realized that if I were to recommend one book on Sufism to an interested beginner on the subject, I would recommend this.  Not that it's superficial - far from it!  But it is concise, precise and extremely well-written.  It ties together ideas that you would otherwise need to read several books to grasp.  Most interesting was the section on how Sufism relates to Christianity and Judaism.  Highly recommended.	2004-07-01
US	50983162	R1QJZ8D6PRGLVK	0946621179	380407002	Fez: City of Islam (Islamic Texts Society)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Memorable	First things first:  I don't know why Amazon has this book listed as written by &quot;Stoddart&quot;, presumably William Stoddart.  While Mr. Stoddart no doubt had a hand in the book, it is mainly the work of Titus Burckhardt.<br />As anybody who has read anything by Burckhardt already kows, he is one of the most fascinating and perceptive writers on Islamic culture that the West has produced.  Before reading this book I had already read &quot;Islamic Art&quot; and &quot;Moorish Culture in Spain&quot;, both of which are enlightening books, as well as being interesting reads, so I was prepared to enjoy this one as well.<br />I have to admit that I liked this book even better than the other two.  In addition to Burckhardt's in-depth knowledge of Islamic architecture and the Islamic concept of a city, he shows an appreciation and sensitivity of North African history and culture that is admirable.  Most important, it was clear that he was talking about a place that he truly loved and cherished.<br />To top it off, the illustrations, and specifically the photographs, are gorgeous, and they will be enough to make you fall in love with Fez, sight unseen.  All in all a splendid effort, and it's good to see that this book is back in print.	2004-06-29
US	50983162	RX6FA09127GT2	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	1	151	196	N	N	New Age Trash	\\"Mutant Message Down Under\\" describes the secuestration of a medical worker, who apparently bears an uncanny resemblance to Ms. Morgan, by a tribe of Australian aborigines that are unknown to, and whose existence is apparently unsuspected by, the Australian government.  They train her in tribal lore, advise her of a message for the rest of us on the outside, and send her back to twentieth century reality.  Ms. Morgan states that this is a work of fiction, but makes it clear that she is casting it in a fictional format to protect the identity of the aboriginal tribe that chose her to transmit this sublime message, and that in fact this is a true story.  In creating a book of this sort Ms. Morgan has managed to satisfy several audiences.<br />One audience she pleased is lunatic fringe New Agers who prefer this sort of airy fairy, feel good way of getting in touch with ourselves and Mother Earth, and which unfortunately poses as a serious form of spirituality.  An important subgroup within this species is comprised of those individuals that like stories about UFO abductions; Ms. Morgan should be congratulated on coming up with a new and interesting variation on this rather well-worn theme.  <br />Other readers no doubt found satisfaction that her main character was a middle-aged woman, which is a rare species to find as a protagonist on a mission from God in most extant literature.  It was no doubt this factor that gave the book appeal to Oprah Winfrey, who included it on her list of recommended reads - that and the fact that although it is a whole 224 pages long, the print is large and there aren't too many long words.<br />Unfortunately for Ms. Morgan, it also attracted attention from Aboriginal groups in Australia, along with a number of anthropologists that have worked with Native Australians, and it was clear that whatever Ms. Morgan thought she was describing, she had no idea whatsoever what Aboriginal life was like; in fact, the book is a rehash of derivative literature on Aboriginal life, leavened with some Native American spirituality where the details weren't too clear, maybe spiced with a piquant touch of Bushman lore from Southern Africa, and heavily interlarded with a healthy dose of Ms. Morgan's imagination.<br />That Ms. Morgan should attempt something like this is not too surprising; Carlos Castaneda managed to do the same thing, only he did it much better; in fact, he fooled an entire generation.  James Redfield also did something similar with the \\"Celestine Prophecy\\".<br />The difference between Ms. Morgan on the one hand, and Mr. Castaneda and his Yaquis or Mr. Redfield and his Incas on the other, is that these others were dealing with ethnic groups that largely didn't read English and didn't pay much attention to what is said about them; among Australian Aborigines, however, there is an organized, articulate group that are committed to maintaining their property rights and are very concerned with the image projected about them to the rest of the world.  <br />Ms. Morgan has apparently gone on record for \\"apologizing\\" the the Aborigines, although her apology has not kept her from writing a second book on this same idiocy.  If she really feels apologetic she should consider funding some of her considerable profits for this book to support Aboriginal rights in Australia.  It's the least she owes them for exploiting their culture and folkways to pander to the audience for half-baked spirituality.<br />As is so often the case with this sort of thing, the devil is in the details, and if you're interested in pursuing those details that make this story come apart at the seams you can search for \\"Dumbartung\\" on your computer to be taken to an Aboriginal website that has a great amount of detail on the subject.  <br />As for Aboriginal spirituality, if you're really interested in the subject you're better off reading James Cowan's books.  As arguably the oldest continuous culture in the world, I believe that the Aborigines have a lot to teach us about spiritual matters.  It's a shame that the most readily available way it is being served up these days is in a sideshow caricature like this.	2004-06-21
US	50983162	RCXNCCV15037U	0946621373	307736147	The Book of Certainty: The Sufi Doctrine of Faith, Vision and Gnosis (Islamic Texts Society)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Amazing	I review this work with some trepidation.  &quot;Martin Lings&quot; and &quot;Abu Bakr Siraj Ad-Din&quot; are the same person, incidentally; Lings embraced Islam and wrote this book in Egypt, where, he indicates, it has been translated into Arabic.<br />My impression can be summed up succinctly.  To date, I have not encountered any other original work in a Western language that incorporates and reveals so much directly transmitted Sufi lore - not Guenon, not Henry Corbin, not Frithjof Schuon - and this despite the fact that this is a little book, less than 100 pages.  I was a surprised to find such material in print, and I wonder if it should have been written at all, due to the possibility of misinterpretation.<br />But then, I am not qualified to pass judgment on such matters.  The book requires multiple re-readings to obtain all that it has to offer - then set it aside, and read it again in a couple of months.  In this unenlightened age, it is a treasure.	2004-05-03
US	50983162	R2EGYUS5HNLEAT	8121501148	310622261	The Culture and Art of India	Books	4	1	1	N	N	In-Depth Cultural History	I am informed that nowadays the academic subject known as \\"World History\\" has truly become worldly, and the students, at better schools anyway, are required to know the dates of the Abbasid Caliphate and the Tang Dynasty as well as the usual litany of dates from European history.    However, India still remains to some extent absent in the curriculum.  The most that the non-specialist is apt to learn about India in school is something about the Upanishads and the beginnings of Buddhism, usually gleaned from an undergraduate course in Comparitive Cultures.  One is left with the impression that India has lived in a vacuum for the last two thousand years.    There is a reason for this, and it's one that Professor Mukerjee addresses in the Introduction to this interesting book:  unlike all the other major Eurasian civilizations, India does not look at its history in terms of either politics or warfare.  The major motive force in Indian civilization, he avers, has been social interaction and metaphysics.  This means that analyzing Indian culture with European criteria is misleading.    It is true that Indians sometimes show a bland disregard for diachronicity in their history, leading sometimes to absurdly outrageous statements such as the common assertion that the events in the Mahabharata took place before 3000 BCE, long before the Aryan invasion.  It is also true that compared with India, the European, East Asian and Middle Eastern cultures all are alike in emphasizing the politico-military aspects in their own cultural development.    Professor Mukerjee therefore sets out to elaborate his own criteria for judging the development of Indian culture, and does it in terms of declines and renascences - \\"reincarnations\\", if you will - in Indian culture, which specifically means Indian religion.  In a culture in which virtually everything becomes a question of religion and in which reincarnation is a basic tenet, this is not surprising.    And in fact it is an exceptionallyenlightening way of approaching the subject; it certainly provides coherent answers for some of the questions that foreigners are apt to find nebulous in Indian history, such as why Buddhism disappeared in the land of its origin and what gave rise to the Sikh Brotherhood.  In fact the book is a storehouse of detailed information regarding the phenomena of Indian culture, as well as the impact that India has had on Southeast Asia and the Indonesian archipelago.    It is a heavy meal, however, and not easily digested.  It is not a book for the novice on India, and people starting out on the subject will want to read something like A.L. Basham's \\"Wonder that was India\\" first before moving on to this book.  If you're not already familiar with Indian history, you may also want to keep a basic book on that within reach too, such as Romila Thapar's history of pre-Moghul India.  Despite his disclaimer of the importance of wars and politics, Professor Mukerjee expects that his reader will be familiar with Indian history.  The text will jump around chronologically as necessary, and while there is a time line in the back of the book, it is littered with references to cultural items and not easy to follow.    It is in areas like this that the book tends to fall down, and so much background knowledge was assumed of the reader that at first I wondered whether this book was in fact intended for educated Indians and not for foreign readers.  In addition to history, it is assumed that the reader will be quite familiar with the geography of the subcontinent, too.    Two other caveats are in order.  The book is studded with Sanskrit terms which are apt to make the uninformed reader lose his way.  A relatively obscure school of yoga or metaphysics may be mentioned in passing at one point, only to turn up again fifty pages later without a re-description.  Also, like the Ancient Greeks only more so, the Indians use a large number of epithets for their gods, and Professor Mukerjee will often use whichever name he feels fits best in a given circumstance.  This makes the work heavy sledding for a non-specialist.    Finally, there is the all-too-familiar cloud hanging over the Muslim era, as is usual in books by Hindus on Indian history.  Hindu writers usually tend to describe the period from the time of the Sultinate of Delhi onward as an era of stagnation in Indian culture, and while Professor Mukerjee doesn't specifically state this attitude, its presence is felt.  The usual critiques are mentioned:  the assertion that only low-caste Hindus converted to Islam is repeated, along with the perception that Hinduism mollified and humanized a cold, unfeeling, legalistic Islam.  Regarding the first of these, it is no doubt true that most converts were from the lower castes, but this is not really a criticism - the upper-caste Hindus had too much to lose materially by converting and thereby losing their caste status, marriage rights and possibly even their property.  As for the charge of Hinduism humanizing Islam, it can just as easily be argued that Islamic mysticism had a humanizing impact on a priest-ridden Hinduism that had become topheavy with ritual.      To add insult to injury, Professor Mukerjee manages to bowdlerize his transliterations of Arabic and Persian words, unlike his scrupulous attention to detail with Sanskrit, although in this case it must be admitted that he does something similar with Chinese terms, using an obsolete system of transliteration.    However, it only fair to mention that the animosity between Muslim and Hindu India has been around for a long time, both sides feel they have good reasons to be offended, and it isn't going to disappear any time soon.  The book is primarily designed to describe Hindu culture, in any case.  It is an extremely valuable addition to our understanding of that culture.	2004-04-29
US	50983162	R1PL0V2AJCEUVE	0941532437	149941906	Paths to the Heart: Sufism and the Christian East	Books	3	33	57	N	N	Spirituality by Committee	The immediate premise for this book was a conference held at the University of South Carolina in October 2001, the purpose of which was an attempt to find some common ground in Christian and Muslim spirituality.  In fact, it amounted to a meeting of noted writers on two traditions:  Christian Hesychasm and Islamic Sufism.<br />While I would not denigrate either of these traditions, it is only fair to say that neither one of them represents the entire spectrum of spirituality in their representative faiths.  &quot;Hesychasm&quot;, for the uninitiated, is a tradition associated primarily with Eastern Orthodoxy, and it is mainly associated with the use of certain techniques of prayer -  primarily but not exclusively the Jesus Prayer - to attain a greater sense of the presence of God.  While this spiritual tradition has achieved a certain level of awareness mainly in Roman Catholic and Anglican circles in the last forty years or so, it would be a stretch to say that it is mainstream Christianity, at least in the West; many Christians view it with misgivings, with some Catholics fearing a denigration of sacramental life and some Protestants seeing it as a rejection of the Bible as the ultimate source of inspiration, and as an attempt to relate to God &quot;by technique&quot; rather than by establishing a personal relation with Jesus.<br />As for Sufism, it respresents a much larger collection of spiritual practices than Hesychasm, although probably the best known practice of most Sufi orders is &quot;dhikr&quot; - an Arabic word that means both &quot;mentioning&quot; and &quot;remembrance&quot;, and which consists mainly of the repetitive use of either the names of God or a short prayer.  As is the case with Hesychasm among Christians, many modern Muslims would hesitate to call Sufism &quot;mainstream.&quot; Indeed, a large segment of the international Muslim community - a segment that contains a considerable portion of the more educated, articulate Muslims worldwide - maintains that Sufism is an artificial accretion on Islam which all true Muslims should condemn.<br />It appears that the major reason why these two groups are talking to each other is that the techniques that they both use regarding the Jesus Prayer and dhikr resemble each other to a considerable extent, so much so that many scholars maintain some borrowing of technique.  The array of scholars that contributed to this book is a Who's Who of these particular areas of spirituality, including two Orthodox clergy - Bishop Ware and Father Chryssavgis - and two Muslim scholars who are highly respected in the West, although their background - Seyyed Hossein Nasr is from a Shiite background, while Reza Shah-Kazemi is Ismaili - are not apt to endear either of them to Sunni Muslim reader.  Most of the other contributors are academics, including major names in the field such as James Cutsinger and William Chittick.  Throughout most of the book the writers seem to be talking at cross-purposes to each other, however.  Personally, I am inclined to feel that this was to some extent inevitable.  I believe that one of the contributors, Peter Samsel, hit the nail on the head when he stated that whereas Islam has considerable &quot;theological space&quot; for Christianity, Christians are almost inherently incapable of returning the favor.  What this means is that Islam recognizes that Christianity is a valid form of spirituality, and while Muslims feel that Christ's original message was distorted by Christians and in any case was superseded by Islam, most would concede that a man can be a Christian and be truly spiritual; in fact, the Koran states as much in several passages.  Christians, on the other hand, are basically incapable of saying the same about Islam, since to do so would be tantamount to stating that a valid revelation could occur after Christ; from the Christian perspective, Islam can only be an aberration.<br />The essays in the book are intentionally arranged to start with the ones that are at the most opposed poles and to move toward those that tend to converge, culminating in an article by Huston Smith, with leaves one with a bittersweet sense that we all have a long way to go.<br />The book provided an excellent forum for both sides of this argument to have their say, and is a useful exposition of polite academic debate in the area.  Having said that, the book has little new in the way of true spirituality.  If you're interested enough in the subject to be interested in this book, it probably won't tell you anything you didn't already know.ith the ones that are at the most opposed poles and to move toward those that tend to converge, culminating in an article by Huston Smith, with leaves one with a bittersweet sense that we all have a long way to go.<br />The book provided an excellent forum for both sides of this argument to have their say, and is a useful exposition of polite academic debate in the area.  Having said that, the book has little new in the way of true spirituality.  If you're interested enough in the subject to be interested in this book, it probably won't tell you anything you didn't already know.	2004-04-22
US	50983162	RC57FS1BFSK5M	0691000913	249099363	Doctor Illuminatus: A Ramon Llull Reader	Books	3	47	47	N	N	Hard to Get your Arms Around	For all practical purposes, this book is the primary introduction to Ramon Llull available in English.  Llull is a difficult figure to come to terms with, for various reasons, and I must admit that I left this book feeling a bit more confused than I was when I started.<br />There are two components of this book:  Llull's writings themselves (not by any means all of them, which would require much more space, and Professor Bonner has already released a two-volume anthology in addition to this book) and Professor Bonner's commentary.  From the very start, it's difficult for us to even begin to conceive of Llull's place in his own world.  Llull was born in Mallorca, which had only been reconquered from the Muslims a few years before his birth, thus raising the prospect that he experienced some cultural crosscurrents in his youth.  He spent his earlier years as a courtier, and more specifically as a troubador, which also could raise suspicions about his background.  After a conversion experience, Llull became a tertiary Franciscan, a designation defining a semi-monastic state not necessarily in permanent orders; presumably, he was considered too old to enter regular orders (he was past thirty).  He spoke Arabic fluently, and a great deal of his work is in Arabic.<br />Professor Bonner defines him primarily as having one major goal in his life:  conversion of the Moors, and defines him as a &quot;polemicist&quot;, in the terms of the day.  On reading his works, one feels that the polemic is missing, and in fact he apparently has so much sympathy for Islam that it looks as if he may have been a crypto-Muslim himself.  Llull himself cites Sufi influence in some of his work, and one of his major works - &quot;The Book of the Lover and his Beloved&quot; - bears a title that sounds like a direct translation from Arabic.<br />Llull's major life's work was his &quot;Ars&quot; (which apparently means something in this context like style of presentation) and it is in this area that the book really falls down, in my opinion.  Professor Bonner makes constant reference to Llull's &quot;Ars&quot; without ever going into any specific examples as to what it is.  It is apparently some system of thought that is supposed to explain all other systems of thought, and it involves the use of diagrams.  Based on what I have found in other works it is true that Llull's &quot;Ars&quot; is apparently quite abstruse, and I can only presume that Professor Bonner didn't feel he had enough space to do it justice in this one-volume presentation.  However, I was left with a sense that it was either something akin to the Jewish Kabbala or else a thirteenth-century version of Abraham Maslow's diagrams.  Neither of these images leaves me any further on.<br />Llull was both praised and condemned by later generations as an alchemist, a charge which Professor Bonner dismisses by showing that the alchemical works attributed to him were forgeries.  Llull has also been beatified by the Vatican, but he has never been canonized; one wonders whether this is was because of the whiff of alchemy in his background or whether his thought was too far out of the Christian mainstream, like Meister Eckhart.<br />Llull is also considered the founder of Catalan literature, a fact which Professor Bonner devotes no space to, and it would be interesting to place him within this perspective.  All in all, I found Professor Bonner's explanations told me too little, and they didn't really prepare me for what I encountered when reading Llull's texts.  It would be interesting to see if there is any serious study of Llull's work by a competent Hispanic Arabist on the level of Luce Lopez-Baralt or Father Asin Palacios.<br />I can't say that the book cleared things up for me.  Having said that, I have no recommendation to the reader where he or she should go to find out more.  Perhaps Professor Bonner's two-volume work provides more background, but to all appearances it is a specialist work and probably more than the casual reader would care to deal with.  There are some websites in Spanish and Catalan that I've encountered that go into some detail regarding the &quot;Ars&quot;, but I suspect some New Age revisionism in their content, which is certainly not a charge that can be levelled at Professor Bonner.<br />In the end, I opt for three stars for the work.  If you're interested in Llull this is as good a place to start as any, and better than most, no doubt.	2004-02-06
US	50983162	R2BZ5B4JK7ZKOM	0415131162	200238882	The History of Basque	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Thie Final Word on the Subject	This book wholeheartedly deserves five stars.  It is a complete, prolix history of everything having to do with the Basque language, including a history of the people who speak it, the development of the lexicon and grammar, and a review of the subject of relations with other languages.<br />Having said that, it is not a book that everybody who is interested in things Basque may want to pick up and rummage through.  Professor Trask is a linguist, i.e. a specialist in linguistics.  Like all academic disciplines, linguistics has its own special technical terminology; at times, however, it can seem to the uninitiated that linguistics has more of its own jargon than any other academic field of endeavor except perhaps medicine.  After the lengthy introduction of the book, which is actually an extremely interesting history of the language and the people who speak it, the book is very largely involved in the minutiae of linguistic analysis, and although Professor Trask does his best to keep the style lively, the fact is that unless you feel comfortable discussing phonotactic neutralization, the typical structure of iterative languages, the eccentricities of allocutivity or a host of other terms that are not apt to turn up in Webster's Collegiate, you may find the bulk of the book rather heavy sledding. <br />However, just about every reader will get something out of the last chapter of the book, which deals at considerable length with the ever-popular issue of whether Basque is related to any other language or group of languages.  Professor Trask gets almost vitriolic in this section; to quote:  &quot;this vast body of work (i.e., trying to find connections with other languages) ranges from the sober and well informed through the increasingly fanciful and incompetent to the downright preposterous, with a rather strong bias towards the preposterous end of the scale.&quot;  In its own way, the entire section transcends the issue of the Basque language alone and is a cautionary tale to the amateur enthusiast about the many potential pitfalls in the field of comparative linguistics, and it is worth a read on that basis alone.  Professor Trask proceeds to demolish every major theory about the relation of Basque to any other language except the one that is generally accepted by the academic world, viz., the relation to ancient Aquitanian (he even demolishes my personal pet theory about how Basque phonology has had an influence on Castilian pronunciation; I didn't know that anybody else had ever investigated the matter).  What becomes obvious is the truism that comparative linguistics can be a dangerous area, unless you're intimately familiar with both of the languages you're comparing.  And how many people out there will be familiar enough with both Basque and, say, Chechen or Arapaho, to cite two examples that some academics have actually taken seriously, to make an intelligent assessment about their similarity at a deep level?<br />This book will tell you everything you ever wanted to know about the history of Basque, and a whole lot more.  Admittedly, the cost of this book makes it unmistakably a specialist work, but if you're a Basque enthusiast let me assure you that you will want to at least read it, and if you're serious about the subject you will want it on your bookshelf.	2003-12-24
US	50983162	R2XRH9Z30RP5PA	0306810719	733944985	The Templars: The Dramatic History Of The Knights Templar, The Most Powerful Military Order Of The Crusades	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Overkill!	This is one of the oddest books on the Templars that I have ever run across.  On the positive side, it spares us the usual lunatic speculation linking the Templars with the Holy Grail, the Cathars, the Troubadors, the Sufis, the Masons, the Merovingian Dynasty and God only knows what other Medieval conspiracy theory the mind of modern man can concoct, and for that I am thankful.<br />On the other hand, I question the necessity of providing the history of Islam from Muhammad forward, as well as the history of Christian monasticism from the time of St. Anthony, or the history of Christianity from the time of Christ, for that matter, solely for the purpose of setting the stage for the Templars.  Is our world so full of ignorant agnostics that people have to have these things explained to them?  Maybe it is.<br />One might argue that this is really a rather sketchy history of the Crusades as well as as an overstuffed history of the Templars.  The odd thing is that many of the stories about the Templars that interest people the most, such as the record of their trial and dissolution, Is given extremely short shrift in this version.<br />If you're a already Templar enthusiast I think you'll find mighty slim pickings in this book.  If your a novice to the whole Templar thing, you may find the book to be of some value, but you may want to look over some other recent offerings on the subject as well.	2003-10-20
US	50983162	RPKC1Y8IXUMSA	1556432690	631639041	The Voyage and the Messenger: Iran and Philosophy	Books	4	34	34	N	N	An Introduction to a Brand New World	Even Henry Corbin's greatest admirers have to admit that he is not an easy read.  There are two reasons for this, as I see it.  One of them is his adherence to that peculiar French literary convention in non-fiction of assuming that the reader understands more than he or she actually does (the French have a name for this style, although at the moment I can't recall what it is).<br />The other, more important reason is that it requires a considerable amount of unusual intellectual baggage to reach the point where you can begin to understand what Corbin is trying to say.  In order to even consider embarking on Corbin's spiritual journey, it is extremely helpful to be familiar with Medieval Scholasticism, Islamic philosophy, Sufism, Shiite theology and Zoroastrianism.  It also doesn't hurt to have a nodding acquaintance with Luther, the seventeenth century German mystics and Swedenborg.  I don't know anybody who feels completely at home with all those topics; I know that I don't.<br />Which is what makes this book so important for an understanding of Corbin.  In fact, Corbin didn't put this book together; it is a compilation of various pieces of his writing.  The book starts out with a lengthy intellectual biography of Corbin by Christopher Bamford, which helps considerably to set the stage.  This is followed by two essays by Corbin on the development of Iranian studies and the history of Iranian philosophy.  Both of these are rather long, and to me at least while I was reading them, they were rather boring.  However, in retrospect I must admit that these essays probably do more to introduce Corbin's mindset than anything else that could have been selected.  Following this are various, mostly short essays dealing with features of Iranian philosophy and mysticism.  The whole scheme of the book it to lead the reader into an appreciation of Corbin's endeavors and an understanding of what he was trying to achieve.  <br />I first encountered Corbin about four years ago, when I attempted to read \\"Man of Light.\\"  I gave up after about twelve pages; the material presented was too abstruse for me.  After reading this book I realize that Corbin is pure gold, and I'm ready to tackle his work in earnest.	2003-10-06
US	50983162	RQEUM4NBWO2E2	0941532097	998234166	To Have a Center (Library of Traditional Wisdom)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Interesting Viewpoint	I've been an admirer of Schuon for many years.  I find his comments on esotericism to be some of the most sublime and thought-provoking to be found in print.  In this work we are moving somewhat off the subject of esoteric religion per se and moving into the realm of the development of culture, and cultures.<br />Readers of Schuon's other works will recognize this as one of his favorite topics, and in this book he allows himself the space to tackle the subject in depth.  In general, Schuon is in agreement with Guenon regarding the decline of culture, and particularly Western culture, holding that for various reasons modern Western culture has become truly &quot;pagan.&quot;  He then proceeds to dissect the phenomenon of identifying &quot;genius&quot; and what it constitutes, and indeed it is particularly interesting to consider that the idea of genius seems to be one that is a Western preserve.<br />The part when I began wondering whether I was willing to keep pace with Schuon, however, was when he started dissecting individual examples of Western &quot;genius&quot;, and serving up his opinion on the quality (or lack of it) in their work.  I am not at all comfortable with the idea of consigning artists like Tolstoy and Balzac to the rubbish bin, mainly apparently because they were novelists and were very good at it, while extolling composers like Georges Bizet for his presumed use of a musical tradition dating back to the troubadors.<br />I won't say that Schuon's comments weren't interesting; interesting enough, in fact, for me to question my own taste in books, painting and music somewhat, but in general I have to say that while it would have been interesting to sit down with Schuon and discuss all these things, this book seemed to me to pontificate a bit too much on particulars.	2003-09-29
US	50983162	R3BD0J8R2JGTP8	0940368021	466885446	Know Your Islam	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Mental Footnotes Required	This is not a bad book if you realize its inherent limitations, which may not be immediately obvious to the untrained observer.<br />First of all, the title is misleading; it should be called &quot;Know your Shiite Islam.&quot;  I have nothing against Shiites - far from it, I think that they are a valid and necessary manifestation of that sea of spirituality known as Islam - but calling this book &quot;Know your Islam&quot; is like calling a book on Lutheranism &quot;Know your Christianity.&quot;<br />Secondly, I suspect that the book was primarily designed for people from a Shiite Islamic background who for one reason or another have become secularized, either due to long residence in the West or because they received a Westernized education.  Seen from this point of view the book fulfills a useful niche.<br />But for the average Westerner the book is a bit of a chore to understand without some experience of Islam on the ground.  Be advised.	2003-09-12
US	50983162	R3RM70BIJ7R39K	0892815531	630174425	The Doctrine of Awakening: The Attainment of Self-Mastery According to the Earliest Buddhist Texts	Books	2	24	58	N	N	Fascist Buddhism	I first noticed Evola's work on Amazon.com when I found his name coming up repeatedly in the \\"Customers who Bought this Book also Bought...\\" section when I reviewed a book by an author that I liked, such as Rene Guenon or Frithjof Schuon.  Since he obviously appealed to people with interests like mine, I decided to give him a try.<br />Since there are so many glowing reviews on line for Evola's work, I suspect that this book may not be the best introduction to him.  It was written during World War II, when Evola's was very much still a hard-line apologist of Mussolini's regime.  As such, the fascist rhetoric is rather thick at times.<br />I would like to say that I could treat Evola's Aryan falderal as mere window dressing and distill out the wisdom between the lines, but I found that the effort was too much for me.  Evola believed that at its inception Buddhism was a renewal of the original Aryan religion, encouraging a belief in one's own ability to break through to liberation.  As such it is inherently better than other religions, whether it be Christianity, which we would be led to believe relies on lukewarm pieties that sap an individual's inherent virtue, or Islam, which substitutes obscurantism and a herd instinct for a genuine approach to reality, or even Mahayana Buddhism, with its emphasis on showing benevolence to beings that are obviously inherently inferior to real Aryans.<br />The conclusion I came to was that Evola \\"discovered\\" Buddhism, liked what he saw, and developed a rationale of it to suit his overall Weltanschauung.  His claim that early Buddhism resurrected the Vedic religion (i.e., the religion of the original Aryans) strikes me as nothing so much as a piece of revisionist history.<br />Still, I can't bring myself to give the book only one star, since I must admit that Evola is certainly an interesting read, and his views are worth airing, whether you agree with him or not.  But if I read him again, I think I'll try one of his post-war books..	2003-06-19
US	50983162	R1NDLU6HFIQOO6	0313298858	552140550	Handbook of Spanish Popular Culture	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well-written, Succinct, Informative	For some reason that is interesting to contemplate but difficult to quantify, some cultures seem to attract more attention from foreigners, or a certain type of foreigner, than others do. Russian culture is one such; so is Japanese, and so is Spanish. Perhaps it is the sense of irony and tragedy that seems to permeate the history of these cultures.<br />At any rate, there is no shortage of books on Spanish culture; indeed, one can almost speak of the field as a literary subgenre. The French and the English have probably produced more books on the subject than others have, but the subject has attracted its share of Americans too, from Washington Irving to James Michener.<br />So one might legitimately question the need for another book on Spanish culture. In this case, there definitely is. With the exception of Russia, there is probably no nation in Europe that has undergone more change in the last century than Spain, and not just due to the Civil War. Not very many people are aware of how much Spanish society has changed since Franco died twenty-eight years ago, reinventing itself from a medieval enigma to a valid member of the European community.<br />This book deals with Spanish popular culture by topic, reviewing in turn religion, music, sports, popular literature and several other topics. While it reviews the history of these fields summarily, the book's major purpose is to document and shed light on how Spanish popular culture has evolved in the last three decades. While Professor Stanton makes use of statistics, this book is not an essay in sociological analysis; the book is eminently readable and enlightening, despite its relatively short (238 pages) length.<br />If it's such a good book, why only four stars? Simple: the price. At this price the publisher is virtually ensuring that the only buyers for this book will be institutional libraries. This is a real shame, since this is not some scholarly effort that would appeal to an extremely limited audience, butrather a book that should be required reading for anybody interested in Spanish culture. I can only hope that a less expensive version will eventually appear.	2003-05-27
US	50983162	RGHK2JHU5RRWA	0874170354	727232126	In a Hundred Graves: A Basque Portrait (Basque (Hardcover))	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Very Satisfying Read	People familiar with Laxalt's work know that he mostly writes about the Basques, which is his own heritage. This book is a moist, sincere, heart-warming ramble around the Basque countryside, based on Laxalt's stay in Basque country in the early seventies. It is not a novel; it is rather a series of vignettes of traditional Basque life, with an eye toward revealing something of the Basque character. Sometimes Laxalt himself is a character in the action, such as at the slaughter of a pig or when some French bikers create a stir in a Basque tavern; more often he is an anonymous observer, such as in the singing contest or the meeting of the three poets. Some of the chapters are less than a page long, and might be described as prose poems.<br />The book is disarmingly short; I think I read it in two hours. But you can't resist how it makes you feel good, and makes you want to spend your next vacation in the Pyrenees. If you're a Basque enthusiast, it's a must read.	2003-05-07
US	50983162	R3D4LU30RR624B	0941532151	669024269	Treasures of Buddhism	Books	3	18	25	N	N	A Not Altogether Pleasant Surprise	I have been an admirer of Schuon's work since I first encountered \\"Understanding Islam\\" in 1973.  His interpretation of Islam, and also his views on esotericism and its place in humanity's approach to Ultimate Reality has had a profound effect on my own spiritual life.  Over the years I have snapped up anything that I encountered by Schuon - a not altogether easy enterprise, since most of his work was out of print for quite a few years and I generally found his books only at used book sales and the like.  <br />Several years ago Schuon's work started coming out in newly edited versions, including this book.  It is only recently, however, that I got around to reading this volume of essays - which is rather odd, since my interest in Buddhism goes back even further than my interest in Schuon, and I have practiced Buddhist meditation for many years.  I was excited to see what Schuon had to say on the subject.<br />Much to my surprise, I found that the Buddhism that Schuon describes seems to bear little resemblence to Buddhism as I know it.  Schuon's opening thesis - that Buddhism is a message built around renunciation and mercy - is at odds with what it has always meant to me.  True, mercy is a part of the Buddhist message, but only in a derivative way.  As for renunciation, I feel this can easily be misunderstood within the Buddhist perspective.  Buddhism, as I always understood it, is primarily about enlightenment, which is brought about by mindfulness - it is a form of meditation both at rest and in action, and its goal is the tearing down of the curtain of discursive thought so that true reality can be perceived.<br />I can't say that I rejected everything that Schuon had to say.  His comments about the similarities between Buddhism and Christianity were very much on the mark, for example.  But his comments on the two essays regarding Zen seemed to me to be a rather futile attempt, largely overthinking the subject.<br />On the whole, I walked away from the book withthe unpleasant suspicion that Schuon's approach to the philosophia perrenis was the wrong tool to use when attempting to dissect Buddhism - \\"unpleasant\\" because I have had the utmost respect for Schuon's metaphysical approach, at least up to now.<br />I am told that the original version of the story of the blind men and the elephant was a Buddhist tale.  If so, it would make sense that there is room for wildly varying, totally contradictory interpretations of the Buddha's ultimate message.  In any case, I would never discourage the seeker of metaphysical truth from reading Schuon.  But in this case I think he was off the mark.	2003-04-12
US	50983162	R544A37Q30N7R	0020794304	54857524	Cassell's Colloquial Spanish: A Handbook of Idiomatic Usage (Including Latin-American Spanish)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Maybe the Best All-Around Presentation of Collouqialisms	While I agree with all the comments of previous reviewers on this little gem of a book, I feel that it is incumbent on me to point out what this book is, and what it is not.  It is not a general review of Spanish slang.  It was not meant to be, and while it covers a fair amount of slang, it is more in the sense of pointing out those types of colloquialisms that are long-standing and which the foreigner should understand when he or she hears them, e.g., common and universal obscenities.  For an extensive review of colloquialisms along with background on the ones that are peculiar to specific areas of the Hispanic world, the book &quot;Streetwise Spanish&quot; is a better choice.<br />However, in the field of discussing the basic nuts and bolts of standard spoken Spanish, there is simply no better book on the market than this one.  It is true that Joseph Keenan's recent offering, &quot;Breaking Out of Beginner's Spanish&quot; offers more in the way of colloquial grammar points, but &quot;Cassell's Colloquial Spanish&quot; will acquaint you with the the sort of vocabulary that you will hear the most often at home, on the street, in the classroom or the office or anywhere else you may end up.  If you learn what's in this book you'll be able to communicate effectively 95 percent of the time.  What's more, the book is a good read, good enought even to be a bedside book.  There aren't many language books you can say that about.	2003-02-23
US	50983162	R3B1324EZQ78BM	0471179701	453368218	Street Spanish 1: The Best of Spanish Slang	Books	3	29	32	N	N	Not Bad Intro to Spanish Slang	I've owned and used this book for a couple of years, and while it is worth the read, if you need to buy one book of this sort I would go with &quot;Streetwise Spanish&quot; by Mary Gill and Brenda Wegmann.  While the format of both books is surprisingly similar, I think that &quot;Streetwise&quot; covers more turf, and does it more entertainingly, than &quot;Street Spanish.&quot;	2003-02-17
US	50983162	R1A5I09WL9LD3Z	0844272817	22251223	Streetwise Spanish : Speak and Understand Everyday Spanish	Books	5	155	158	N	N	Best of its Kind	There are a plethora of books purporting to deal with Spanish slang on the market; a surprisingly large number of them have come out in just the last few years.  After having checked out many of them, I must say that this is far and away the best one that I have encountered to date.<br />One of the problems with dealing with colloquialisms in Spanish is that they differ so much from region to region.  This book addresses this by setting the dialogues in different Hispanic countries, including (dare I say it?) that particularly large Hispanic country called the United States, specifically in California and Florida.  The book then selects out the colloquialisms covered in the lesson and tells you what the equivalent terms are in other Hispanic countries.<br />Another problem with learning colloquialisms, and this is true in any language, is that they tend to vary considerably depending on the social type you're dealing with:  students, business types, street people, etc.  Not infrequently, the learner may have to deal with several different strata in the course of his or her travels, and so familiarity with several situations is called for.  The different lessons, and lectures, in this book intentionally vary the milieu of the characters so that you get an even spread.<br />The book also has an abundance of cultural notes and asides, jokes, and situational items to polish up your skills.  Among the features I enjoyed best was the essay on that famous Hispanic folk art, the &quot;piropo&quot;, including examples of the genre, along with some snappy comebacks for women to use when encountering this phenomenon on the street.<br />So may study aids come out on Spanish every year that it's hard to single out the real winners.  This book is definitely one of them, and regardless of your interest in the language you'll find your money well spent on this one.  To top it all, it's a good read!	2003-01-02
US	50983162	R32GR797BG5ZSF	1566634407	313766150	The Closed Circle: An Interpretation of the Arabs	Books	1	13	106	N	N	Hateful	Mr. Pryce-Jones has managed to put together a multitude of reasons why we of the advanced West should never trust an Arab.  They're untrustworthy, they care only about their own clan, they make a practice of political murder, etc, etc.<br />Mr. Pryce-Jones has apparently never experienced the upside of dealing with Arabs, such as their ability to negotiate reconciliations and the basic freedom of belief that exists in most portions of the Arab world.  This book reminds me of the kind of material printed about the Japanese during World War II.  It provides us with all we need to hate the Arabs.<br />How fitting that a new edition is coming out now, just while the USA is planning another war against Iraq.  Perhaps the publisher should consider a gift-boxed edition for the Christmas season.	2002-11-26
US	50983162	R34IUTFNCZPZLL	0300082576	282761967	The Soul of Latin America: The Cultural and Political Tradition	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Mostly on Target	First of all, let me say that I found this book to be educational. I learned a good deal about the political process in Latin America that I was not aware of before. I would even say that for the average general reader, including those that have (like me) at some time taken a survey course on Latin American history, it will be illuminating. If it were possible to give the book three and a half stars, I would.<br />Having said that, I can't avoid the feeling that the book is worth the read in spite of itself. For one thing, the title is, in my opinion, unfortunate; one might be led to expect a review of Latin American literature, or maybe music. At worst, it could be some eccentric essay on the Hispanic \\"alma.\\" It is none of these things. It is a survey of political thought in the Iberian world (i.e., Luso-Brazilian as well as Hispanic) done from the historical point of view.<br />Perhaps I should say from the \\"diachronic\\" point of view, since Professor Wiarda is almost apologetic about writing what he feels is cultural history, and he apparently prefers to be seen as a social scientist. The first third of the book is the roughest going; it reviews the presumed influence of the Greeks, Romans and Arabs on Iberian political thought. Truth be told, while there is a solid cultural bedrock inherited from the Romans in modern Spain, not least of all in the language, it is hard to prove the case that the Greeks and Romans provided much of a direct legacy in the sphere of political thought, except perhaps as an unconscious echo of ancient evenings; it was rather the reinvestigation of Greek and Roman thought in the Renaissance that made what the ancients had to say of relevance in Hispanic thought. And while the Arabs left a considerable legacy behind them in the social sphere, I personally doubt that they had little influence on the formation of political life in any direct way.<br />Things pick up starting with the period after 1500. In this we are advised about the reformulation of Aquinas' thought by thinkers like Francisco Suarez, and then considerable detail is spent on Rousseauan liberalism, Comtean positivism, corporatism, and the anarchists. Most of these movements are of marginal interest in our own history or the history of the rest of the English-speaking world, but they had a tremendous impact on France and Southern Europe - and on Latin America; it is impossible to understand Latin American politics in this century without some comprehension of what these movements sought to achieve. The book also discusses Arielismo and Hispanismo in detail. Most students of Latin America have heard of these movements, and unfortunately don't pay much attention to them. This is a mistake, since if there are any movements that directly affect Latin America's relationship with the USA it is these two.<br />The end of the book, however, ends up advising us that all of what came before may have no relevance to the future, what with the decay of the traditional institutions in Latin America and the submergence of the entire continent in the mass marketing culture of the twenty-first century. Maybe this is true, but it leaves me no further on, and I found this objectionable.<br />I also found Professor Wiarda's style a bit difficult to take; he is almost obsessive about enumerating the points that he is making and summarizing everything to the point where it becomes almost juvenile. In this respect the book reminded me of some term papers that I wrote when I was in school. And whoever edited the book should be fired; it bristles with tautologies of the type you find in a poorly edited copy of something done on a word processor. Yale University Press, for shame!<br />Professor Wiarda obliquely advises us by the end of the book that not all of the academic community would agree with his approach. Well, let me say that in general he has argued his position reasonably well. One of the problems with North American approaches to Latin America, andparticularly to Latin American politics, is that we gringos tend to assume that from the political point of view Latin America is a massively dysfunctional place, and the sooner that their politicians give up their comic opera style and become more like us, the better. This book shows that there is such a thing as a definite direction in Latin American politics, and that Latin American leaders have as often as not been attempting to serve the public good, based on the tradition that they have had to work within and the challenges that they have had to face, just as within any other political system. Of course, Latin America has had demagogues and dictators, and maybe the system provides more opportunity for that sort of leader to arise, but that does not permit us to condemn their system as inherently not in the public interest.<br />Despite the flaws the book is worth a read, if the subject interests you.	2002-11-25
US	50983162	R30RVC70V6L4SE	1887752374	831757825	The Road to Mecca	Books	5	109	115	N	N	A Cautionary Tale for the Western World	I consider myself an admirer of Islam, if not a believer, and I was interested in reading this book from the time I first heard of it.  A well-reasoned apologia of the faith by a respected Western convert, I felt, could only be a useful and enlightening book.  I was not prepared for the reality.<br />On beginning the book I was initially disappointed by two things.  First of all, Mr. Assad was a journalist.  Secondly, the book was first published some 50 years ago - and the events described in it happened 20 years earlier than that.  I have no objection to reading old books - far from it! - and I have in general no objection to reading books by journalists, but I tend to avoid old books by journalists.  The journalist, by definition, you might say, is absorbed in the ephemera of current events; when he refers to the past, it is usually only to make a point about the present.  And what may be a cogent observation about current events tends to pall quickly with time.  At best, most old books by journalists are old news; at worst, downright laughable.  Anybody who has tried to read an erstwhile best seller by Lowell Thomas or John Gunther will know what I mean.  In addition, I feared that a book on religion by a journalist could only be superficial, so I resigned myself to making the best of what I feared was to be a bad situation; after all, I had already bought the book.<br />It was true that the book seemed steeped in the current events of 1930:  the French and British \\"mandates\\" in the Middle East, the Saudi struggles against the Beni Hashim and their English friends for control of the Arabian peninsula, the Sanusi battling Fascist Italy in Libya, Shah Reza Khan building a new Iran.  Most of these events are ancient history to Western readers, if indeed they ever heard of them at all.  But much to my surprise, the book was a startlingly good read, and it held my interest.  Indeed, Mr. Assad's opening story of being lost in the desert is one of the finest pieces inits genre that I have ever read, and stands up favorably against anything written by Thesiger or TE Lawrence.<br />I was actually halfway through the book before I finally realized that all of my preconceptions had been wrong.  The book is a finely wrought description of an inner journey to his own center, along with two outer journeys - Mr. Assad's trip to Mecca to perform the Hajj which forms the outward frame of the book, and the larger journey of his own life, starting with his childhood in a Jewish family in Lvov through his presence and participation in many of the major events of the era, and how these affected his outlook.<br />One of my earlier observations was true; if you're looking for well-reasoned arguments about Islam as a world religion, you will not find them.  Instead, there are anecdotal references regarding the effect that the community of believers had on him, and in fact it is probably not overstating it to say that it was the experience of living with Muslims in a Muslim community, and coming to appreciate the world outlook of that community, that influenced him the most and led him to accept Islam.<br />And it is precisely this understanding and interpretation of Islam in terms of the community of believers that makes this an important book - maybe more important than it was when it was originally written.  It is true that the era of Western presence as a governing power in the Middle East is long over.  But the point is that for well over a century, the West cared not at all about local interests in the Middle East.  Not only did we arrogate to ourselves the right to rule these areas, but wittingly or not we did, and still do, tear apart the fabric of these societies by our presence and values - and the Islamic people of the Middle East resent this tremendously.  I know of no other book that manages to bring a sense of this so forcefully.<br />Mr. Assad brings up the issue of Zionism in the book, and mentions that he had made the acquaintance of Chaim Weizmann, with whom he did not see eye to eye.  Within a few brief paragraphs Assad manages to describe completely and succinctly what is largely still the Arab argument against the existence of Israel, and it would benefit Westerners to become familiar with this argument if they want some understanding of the Arab position beyond the two-dimensional stereotypes found in the more sensational press currently available.<br />Not everything about the book made me happy; I was quite dismayed at Mr. Assad's rather summary dismissal of Shiite Islam as basically an Iranian character flaw, and even more dismayed at his caricature of Iran as a nation of opium addicts.  In this case I can only assume that he was reflecting the Wahabi prejudices of his bedouin friends.  <br />But these are only scattered clouds in a sunny sky.  The value of the book lies in the opportunity it gives us to realize that the Middle East has a long-standing grievance against the West, whether it be England, France, Italy, America or Israel. From the Arab point of view we all look the same, and it is not nearly as easy to determine who the aggresor is than we would like to think.	2002-08-01
US	50983162	R1BWFD2GK2PT1E	0313293422	969843834	Daily Life in Maya Civilization	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Everything you Need in One Book	I don't know whether Professor Sharer wrote this book to be a college textbook.  It certainly can be used as one for an overall basic survey of Mayan civilization for the undergraduate.  In case you were wondering, it is most definitely not of the &quot;Daily Life in Ancient Rome&quot; type of book that was so popular when I was a kid.  This is adult stuff.<br />Not that the book is slow; on the contrary, it is generally good reading all the way through.  It covers just about everything at least a little bit, and the bibliography leads you on to more detailed reference when you need it.  It not only covers the sum total of the latest in Mayan archeology, but includes most of the anthropological data that Mayanists have found useful in their construction of Classic Mayan culture, as well as a brief but satisfactory review of Mayan writing.<br />The one thing I found unsatisfactory was Professor Sharer's need to grandstand on ecological issues whenever the topic could be conveniently inserted into the discussion at hand.  While I generally agree with the ecological movement, I felt that it was out of place in this book.  If that doesn't bother you, have at it - this book is the state of the art on what we know about the Maya.  Of course, that will change in a couple of years, but by then a revised edition will be in order!	2002-07-05
US	50983162	R3KKB895BWRD0S	0500051038	973860385	Chronicle of the Maya Kings and Queens: Deciphering the Dynasties of the Ancient Maya	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Authoritative Eyeful	The amount of information that has accumulated about the Maya in the last ten years is extraordinary.  I find it amazing to go to public libraries, even good ones like the state library here in Tallahassee, Florida, only to find that most of the books on the Maya date from the 1970's or earlier, and virtually everything they have to say about the historical context of Maya civilization is woefully out of date.<br />If you're out of date about the latest developments in Maya historiography, or if you're just developing an interest in the subject, you'll find this book to be of value.  It gives the history of the major classic era cities (the book is completely about the classic period, and only digresses outside of that era to add supporting information), and does it in a format that is attractive and interesting.  Indeed, many of the illustrations are of pieces that have only recently been unearthed, and this increases the interest of the book.<br />The one drawback is that the book is a little too advanced for the beginner - it can be difficult to work out the historical signposts - and a little too basic for the student already familiar with most recent work.  A little more data about the overall context of the period and culture would be of some value.  Aside from this one objection, it is an admirable work, well-written enough to capture the interest of the intelligent general reader while not giving the feeling that the authors are talking down to a non-specialist level. Definitely worth the read.	2002-07-04
US	50983162	R1O7510NDFIYP4	0826313582	53153663	Time and the Highland Maya (Woodrow Wilson Center Special)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Useful Material for both the Archeologist and Anthropologist	Professor Tedlock has presented us with what may be the definitive book on Maya timekeeping, at least as it is practiced today - and can we really tell exactly how it was practiced at any other time?<br />This is first and foremost a work of anthrpology, a fact which Professor Tedlock is very clear about from the start.  Having said that, she states that in her viewpoint, cultural anthropologists cannot really take a &quot;neutral&quot; stand with regard to the material they are studying; she cites the example of the students of musicology and linguistics, whose expertise is measured in terms of their virtuosity or fluency in the medium they are studying.  That being the case, can an anthropologist really provide a valid description of Mayan timekeeping unless he or she is actually willing to undergo the training of a timekeeper?<br />For the reader's information, a &quot;timekeeper&quot; is an individual who has been trained in the system of the Mayan calendar, understands the meaning of the days and can make predictions regarding whether certain actions are favorable or not at certain times.  One may dismiss it as a form of astrology. Nevertheless, timekeeping was undeniably an important, even central, activity of the ancient Maya, and much of their history is unintelligible without reference to it.  The value of Professor Tedlock's work, and of this book in particular, is found in the material that she can present to Mayan archeologists and epigraphers to help them understand their source material.<br />Professor Tedlock explains the process by which timekeepers were selected in the traditional Maya world, and the training and rituals which they must undergo.  She also explains the meanings, in general, of the day names in the traditional divination calendar.  Most interesting is her insistence, based on what her teachers told her, that the day names in and of themselves mean almost nothing - maybe at most, the same as the year names mean in the Chinese calendar.I can think of grandiose theories expressed in several books on the subject by Mayanists that will be deflated by that revelation.<br />This is not a work of murky mysticism, and the New Age cultivator of Mayan lore should be advised to stay away.  I found the book to be an excellent supplement to mainstream work by Mayanists, providing a different perspective on the same data.  If the overall field of Mayan studies interests you I think that you will agree with me.	2002-07-03
US	50983162	R3CYK82QKOISUV	0826512216	756114257	The Syntax of Spoken Brazilian Portuguese	Books	3	3	14	N	N	Excellent Idea, Dubious Presentation	Throughout history, many languages have spread from their homeland to become the \\"native\\" language of areas far afield; the whole Romance family of languages shows how Latin became a native tongue far beyond Rome, and the spread of Arabic is similar.<br />Many European languages have been used as \\"colonial\\" languages in the past four hundred years, including such unlikely candidates as Flemish and Danish. But really only five European languages have flourished to become native tongues outside of their homelands: French, English, Spanish, Dutch and Portuguese.<br />The histories of these linguistic developments are varied; some acorns fell farther from the tree than others. Differences in vocabulary and pronunciation are true in every case, and this is to be expected, given that these vary considerably within the mother countries too. But some have also altered grammatically and syntactically. Despite how Parisians may sniff at Canadian French, it really doesn't vary very much syntactically from the standard European variety; where it does, ironically, it is usually the Canadian version that has kept the more antique form while European French has changed. There are, of course, the various French-inpired island creoles, but these are generally not spoken by French who settled overseas, and the dynamic under which they were created is different.  <br />In the case of Spanish, with the exception of some small pockets (as in Aruba) it is amazing how little variation in educated usage there is throughout the world. Even English, despite the fun that Englishmen and Americans poke at each other, hasn't varied nearly as much as it could. It is true that you can discern noticeable differences in educated usage between London and New York, but leaving the USA aside, educated grammar and syntax are virtually identical for the rest of the English speaking world, whether you're in London, Capetown, Sydney, Auckland or (arguably) even Toronto.<br />Dutch is at the other end of the spectrum; its South African stepchild, Afrikaans, departs so much from European usage that it is recognized as a separate language. Portuguese is not too far behind. The differences in even educated usage between Portugal and Brazil are so extensive that it sometimes amazes me that people from the two countries can understand each other at all. It affects usage of pronouns, verb tenses (the future tense virtually doesn't exist in Brazilian Portuguese), word order and a host of other things, in addition to the usual departures in pronunciation and vocabulary.  The departure from the original, in this case, anyway, seems to be on the colony's side; Brazilian Protuguese has changed so much in this past century that even writings by Brazilian writers from 100 years ago sound archaic to modern Brazilian ears.<br />This book is an attempt to tabulate those differences and present them to the student, and its content is extensive. However, the book is quite difficult to use in any way except as a bookshelf reference; unless you know exactly what you're looking for, you won't find it. The book is split into topics by different syntactical \\"phenomena\\", but the information you want could be anywhere. <br />In the balance, I'm glad I have the book, but you can't use it as a study aid as I wished to, unless you want to memorize large numbers of sentences as usage models. It's probably more useful to the teacher than the student.	2002-04-10
US	50983162	R1WCITBGU5ZQW	1570625190	568909588	The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Thin Ice	First of all, let me say that this book was certainly an interesting read.  Secondly, the level of scholarship in the book is quite impressive - it is rare to find an individual who is so conversant in the world of science as well as Eastern civilizations (I am assuming that Mr. Capra's level of scholarship in science is high, since I'm incapable of making an intelligent judgment on that).<br />However, there are two facts about the book that bother me.  One is the premise that Hinduism, Buddhism and Taoism share some common denominator that can be quantified, and that is a premise that I am uncomfortable with.  It is true, of course, that Buddhism had a strong influence on Taoism in its later period.  It is true too that Hinduism and Buddhism have a generic relationship, rather similar to Judaism and Christianity, but if you then go on to compare Judaism and Christianity and you realize how far apart they are in terms of actual belief you can see how little the relationship between Hinduism and Buddhism can mean.<br />As far as I can see the only real premise that all three of these systems of belief inherently share is a negative one, i.e., they eschew the concept of a personal god as understood in the three monotheistic religions of the Western world.  One can indeed point out a similarity between Taoism and Buddhism in their concentration on attention in the present and &quot;going with the flow&quot;, but you can also show a very strong similarity on several points between Christianity and Mahayana Buddhism, to the extent that when the Chinese were exposed to Christianity in the 1500's and 1600's many of them thought it was a Buddhist sect.  That doesn't mean that the two systems of belief are starting from the same premise.<br />The second thing that bothers me is the conclusion that modern science is talking about the same things that the Buddha and Laozi were.  It is true that many Asian religions, perhaps particularly Buddhism, talk about &quot;enlightenment&quot;, and the history of science provides examples of how a flash of intuitive inspiration by one genius can provide a basis for research for a generation of scientists, but aside from that I don't think that science and Eastern thought are talking about the same things at all, regardless of what superficial similarities there may be in the way they describe things.  I have a hard time accepting that when the Heart Sutra says that &quot;form is emptiness, emptiness is form&quot; that we are talking about Einstein's theory of relativity.<br />I will say this:  Eastern thought, perhaps especially Buddhism, may possibly provide the wherewithal for a spiritual life for the committed scientist without requiring him or her to compromise any beliefs about the nature of reality, and that is about the only conclusion that I feel comfortable drawing from this book.  Aside from that I would hesitate to ascribe to anything else here.  Read the book, if you will; it was a landmark in its time and it is indeed one of the better works to come out of the crosscultural experiments of the sixties and seventies.  But give each system of thought its due, whether it is Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism or the Weltanschauung of modern physics.	2002-03-22
US	50983162	RLDSGR1QMPE53	0231112769	62003088	The Columbia Guide to Modern Chinese History	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Shipshape	An excellent quick synopsis of modern China.  Gives an historical overview, biographies of the major players, and descriptions of all the recent historical trends that make China what it is today, all in 300 pages.<br />My only reason to withhold five stars is that I felt the treatment of the last forty years or so was a bit cursory.  But then, this is a history book, and not a current events review.  I'd recommend it to anybody who is looking for a quick but thorough treatment of the subject.	2002-03-15
US	50983162	R21F1QQ058KCVB	1562790412	534616757	Road to Heaven: Encounters with Chinese Hermits	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An Excellent Little Book	This book manages to do two things at the same time - it gives some very nice offhand discourses on Buddhism and the Buddhist (and Taoist!) hermit life, as well as provide an interesting travelogue of a corner of China that is rarely visited, both in the literal and literary sense.<br />One would not expect a foreigner to get to these parts of China, much less be in a position feel his way around once he got there. While I enjoyed the Buddhist premise of the book (being a closet Buddhist myself), I enjoyed it even more as a truly offbeat piece of travel writing.  Travelers manage to get to the ends of the earth, but not too many of them can communicate with the locals well enough to describe their mindset to us who are at home.  Thank you, Mr. Porter!	2002-02-25
US	50983162	R1RZS6UAHATOUW	0567295079	928773550	An Introduction to Celtic Christianity	Books	4	23	23	N	N	All-Inclusive Approach to Celtic Christianity	This book is an admirable, if somewhat diffuse, introduction to the subject of Celtic Christianity.  However, the reader has to realize that when Mr. Mackey refers to &quot;Celtic Christianity&quot; he means the term in a generic sense, i.e., Christianity as it has been, and currently is, practiced in areas inhabited by people of Celtic ancestry.<br />As a result, this is not a book about subliminal Druidic influences, nor is it a book about prayer and praise in the tradition of Patrick, Brigid and Columba.  What it is is a collection of essays on a variety of topics, which gives the book a rather scattered approach that some readers (including readers like myself) may find undesirable.  However, the information contained in the book is on the whole quite interesting and illuminating.  St. Patrick does, of course, figure in the book, most prominently in the first two essays on his autobiography and the lorica.  There is also a very complete treatment of the Culdee communities in a later essay.<br />The rest of the essays tend to take us far away from what is usually associated with &quot;Celtic Christianity&quot; nowadays.  There are essays on the Reformation in Scotland, and the Methodist movement in Wales.  There is an essay on James Joyce and the whole modernist movement in Irish literature from the religious viewpoint, material on modern poetry in Irish, and a particularly interesting essay comparing the work of Douglas Hyde and Alexander Carmichael in collecting religious poetry in Ireland and Scotland in the nineteenth century.<br />In general, the book is an interesting read, and I recommend it for the serious historian of Celtic culture in the varieties it has evolved over the last 1500 years.  Particularly recommended to those who prefer the reasoned academic approach over the murky Celtic twilight mists found in so much literature in this genre.	2002-02-25
US	50983162	R1G021A51S1B3I	0712614788	972042383	The Celtic Alternative  A Reminder Of the Christianity We Lost	Books	1	8	16	N	N	For the Converted Only	Unconvincing attempt to link Celtic Christianity with Buddhism and the Green movement.  If you happen to be into those things, you might find it interesting.  Otherwise, be advised.	2002-02-22
US	50983162	R2GLECB1CK6K3G	0312981260	559539342	Temple	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Ridiculous	Aside from his limitations in character development, Mr. Reilly can't even do any decent research on his books.  If he did, he'd realize that there are no such thing as Jesuit monks, people don't play baseball in New York in January, and a plethora of other details that prove that Mr. Reilly doesn't care to let basic research stand in the way of a story.<br />He does seem to know a lot about weaponry, however, which I suppose is an accurate reflection of his mindset.  Be advised.	2002-02-22
US	50983162	R21GUFH3DDG2XL	1561011037	532082323	Living Between Worlds: Place and Journey in Celtic Spirituality	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Authoritative and Different	Most books on Celtic Christianity fall into two categories.  Many are cloyingly simplistic efforts to breathe new life into the belief and worship patterns of believers that are burned out on mainstream Christianity.  Most of the rest are New Agey-type musings attempting to couple Christianity with some presupposed reconstruction of murky Druidic belief.<br />This is the only book to date that I have come across that told me something convincing about the impact of traditional Celtic belief on Christian worship.  Upon reading this book it became clear to me how questions of liminal belief and the place of worship being the center of the world are so deep seated in the Celtic Christian perspective that you can overlook their significance.  This and the in-depth treatment of the Celtic understanding of pilgrimages were very enlightening.<br />This is a deceptively short book; I must admit that I've read it several times, and always keep coming back to it for reference, which is something I can't say about many books on the subject.  Highly recommended.	2002-02-22
US	50983162	R2UXILRDSYC78X	0500281335	779221251	Breaking the Maya Code	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Great Read on a Controversial Subject	There have been a number of \\"Gods, Graves and Scholars\\"-type popularizations of the story of how various ancient scripts and languages have been decoded over the years, whether we're talking about Ancient Egyptian, Cuneiform, Tocharian or Linear B. And with good reason - after all, everybody enjoys an occasional spot of armchair detective work. The story of the decipherment of Mayan hieroglyphs is especially interesting since there are a couple of unexpected turns. Now that the decipherment is a reality, if not yet a completed task, the whole slightly sordid story can be told.<br />\\"Slightly sordid\\" because the decipherment was the subject of an academic battle that raged for some thirty years in the middle of the twentieth century. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries the Mayan hieroglyphs were the subject of some highly imaginative interpretations, rather like the Egyptian hieroglyphs before Champollion. The first fruits came with the decipherment of Mayan numbers at the end of the nineteenth century.<br />However, the real breakthrough was the work separately done by Knorosov and Proskouriakoff in the 1950's. The serendipitous origin of Knorosov's interest in the matter is one of the most interesting stories in the history of epigraphy, regardless of what language you're talking about. The problem was that by that point, the controlling interests in the Mayanist community, led by Eric Thompson, had given up on the idea of decipherment and to some extent apparently even doubted that there was anything decipherable. The very idea that some Stalinist academic like Knorozov could actually contribute something of value to the matter was unthinkable, and in his position as doyen of the field Thompson managed to stonewall research in the matter for some time. After Thompson's death in the 1970's the decipherment project moved more apace, but there came to be a rift between the anthropologists and epigraphers as to what provided more important clues to Mayan history, a situation which apparently still exists today.<br />The atmosphere of polemic still hangs over this book. At present, it appears that Thompson is a difficult figure for Mayanists to come to terms with, and we may have to wait another generation before a sanguine approach to his legacy will be possible. As for the ditch diggers vs. the puzzle fans, I think everybody realizes that the field has need for both. Allow me to give my personal opinion as a frustrated linguist and say that my interest lies with the epigraphers, which is one reason why I liked the book so much. It is more than a history of decipherment, it is a history of the Mayanist field, and as such it is for the most part a thrilling story.	2002-02-20
US	50983162	RIJCJ60BTRW8D	0861711432	550343078	The Clouds Should Know Me By Now: Buddhist Poet Monks of China	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Shipshape and Unsurprising	Middling collection of Chinese Buddhist poems; I didn't feel that there were any hidden gems here, not on the level of Han Shan.<br />The original Chinese text accompanies the translations, however, which is something that I find pleasing, and presumably you will too, if you are into the language.	2002-02-18
US	50983162	R3G7KJ39EW4NLZ	1851681159	501240937	Muslim Devotions: A Study of Prayer-Manuals in Common Use	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent Sourcebook on Muslim Devotion	There is a spate of books on the Islamic world and Islamic viewpoints on the market presently.  You can find legions of books on Islam as an historical and social phenomenon, many books that do an admirable job describing Islamic dogma, a few that do a good job describing Islamic inner belief, and perhaps too many on esoteric Islam.  However, to my knowledge there is not other book on Islam quite like this one, at least not in English.<br />The book describes the variety of popular devotions that are found throughout the Muslim world.  This includes the form and content of daily prayer, and what these daily prayers mean to Muslims, as well as those types of devotions that are not canonical but which many Muslims hold dear - in short, it is an attempt to describe Islamic prayer life.<br />Anybody who has spent some time in the Muslim world, perhaps especially in Islamic South Asia, is aware of the large number of small prayer tracts that are printed off cheaply and circulated widely.  A good deal of the material in this book comes from these sources.  But the book is not merely a catalogue of practice; Ms. Padwick describes points of similarity in Christian practice (particularly Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic practice) where it occurs, and also does an admirable job in breaking down the vast amount of material into intelligent order.<br />My one objection - and the reason why I haven't given the book five stars - is that the originals of the prayers are not given in the book, but only the English translations.  Ms. Padwick raises the matter herself in the introduction, objecting that including the originals would make the book much larger than it is.  Perhaps, but in Islam the centrality of the Arabic language and its nuances is of critical importance, and I would have preferred to see the originals.  Aside from that, however, this is an admirable contribution to our understanding of Islam as it is practiced on an everyday basis by millions of Muslims.	2002-02-11
US	50983162	R1VELD0RNATS4C	0520047788	116211540	Musics of Many Cultures: An Introduction	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Shipshape Reference Volume on the World's Music	This book is, I think, basically designed to be a college text on non-European music.  If you're like me, you've been out of college quite a while, but I think you'll find this to be a useful reference volume if you're interested in alternative musical traditions.  Perhaps it's my imagination or simply my idiosyncratic point of perspective, but I believe that there has been an increase of interest in non-western music over the last couple of decades.  My perspective is that I'm too old for the top 40, not interested in listening to the music I grew up with (it was bad enough listening to some of that stuff the first time!) and find that the classical station gets more banal each day.  This book will help you to understand the subtleties of non-Western traditions, whether it be types of Indian ragas to use at different times of day, the normal arrangement of pieces in a traditional Arab presentation or the significance of variations in musical style in Japanese court music as opposed to the Kabuki theatre.<br />Three stars, of course, is lukewarm praise, and there were various features of the book that I was not thrilled with, although some of them were unavoidable.  The book is an edited collection of essays by various academics, and the quality is uneven.  Some of them seem to almost be too thorough, and get bogged down in detail (Iranian, Japanese).  Some are too sketchy (West African, Peruvian). Some just aren't there (other Native American).  A couple seem to have provided an opportunity for the writer to air his or her pet projects (Chinese).  Perhaps out of a jealousy to guard their preserves, most of the articles studiously avoided talking about cross-cultural influences (e.g., Arabic music on Iranian - or is it the other way round?), regarding which I would have appreciated some comment.<br />I also think that it would not have been out of place to discuss some of the lesser known traditions with links to the West, such as gypsy music.  Also, in general most(but not all) of the articles avoid discussing modern trends.  Well, I suppose that there are limitations to what you can include between the covers of one book.  This book does cover a lot of turf, and it has an extensive bibliography if you want to look into any one subject in more depth.  Recommended if like me you want to have this kind of information in one volume on your bookshelf.	2002-02-11
US	50983162	REI3GV8SC6UYQ	0060669357	54594301	The Nag Hammadi Library	Books	4	87	126	N	N	Good History, Questionable Spirituality	There is no doubt that the Nag Hammadi library is one of the major historical finds of the twentieth century, and I think that anybody who has an interest in the history of Christianity should give the book a serious read.  It is well done from the scholarly point of view, and it provides us with a wealth of material on the Gnostic sects that inhabited Egypt in early Christian times.<br />It worries me, however, how many people are willing to pick up the ideas expressed in these scriptures and run with them.  This book has a little bit of something for everybody that is into alternative Christian spirituality.  For the feminist, there is Sophia and Mary Magdalene.  For the seekers of magick, there are spells and incantations.  For those that would argue the case of Christ's marriage and progeny, there are tantalizing clues.<br />Two things bother me about this.  First of all, despite all the material that we have, I think that we still know very little about what the ancient gnostics really thought, and this book, consciously or not, encourages us to find whatever we want in their system of belief.  <br />Secondly, it never fails to amaze me how many people are dissatisfied with Christianity as a system of thought, and yet rather than turning to alternatives they prefer to try to turn Christianity into something else.  Please don't mistake me for an apologist for mainstream Christianity - far from it!  But I believe that for better or worse it is more or less a closed system, and it is futile to attempt to turn it into a system of belief that accepts the idea of a &quot;secret&quot; knowledge, just the same as I believe that the widespread attempt to make Christianity more gender neutral is a project doomed to failure in anything but a superficial sense.<br />To sum up, this book is an excellent scholarly resource, but it doesn't stand up as an alternative bible, no matter how much anybody may try to make it one.	2002-02-08
US	50983162	R1NH19YV3ZK3Q1	0804709548	433344676	Japan: A Short Cultural History	Books	3	20	20	N	N	A Good Primer on Japanese Culture	Sansom's book has been around for a long, long time, and it has been an introduction to the subject for several generations of interested readers and budding Japanese scholars.<br />As a book for beginners on Japan it is an excellent start.  If you already know something about the subject, you will probably find that it is long on history and short on culture.  The author goes out of his way to keep the political context in the forefront and always maintains the chronological order of his story, even when the development of some cultural features (e.g., Japanese Buddhism) may not be well-served by that approach.  Most of the major features we associate with Japanese culture are mentioned.  Too many of them are only mentioned in passing, and could have merited more in-depth treatment.<br />Nevertheless, it would be a mistake to denigrate the book too much; when it appeared, most western readers knew little enough on the subject, and most of what they could obtain was either fanciful, biased or just plain unreadable.  The tide has turned, and there is so much material available on Japanese culture nowadays that it's hard for the beginner to figure out where to start.  If he or she starts with this book, they could do far worse.	2002-02-05
US	50983162	R2VAQQWQGDC15I	0300020597	728207487	Character Text for Beginning Chinese: Second Edition (Yale Language Series) (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Okay if it's what you want	This book is the Chinese Character text for DeFrancis' &quot;Beginning Chinese.&quot;  There are two theories regarding teaching written Chinese to foreigners.  One is that you should treat it as a separate subject in the earlier stages of learning the language.  For those who agree with this premise, there is DeFrancis' two volume &quot;Beginning Chinese Reader.&quot;<br />The other school believes that students should learn how to write what they learn how to say.  For educators who prefer this approach, DeFrancis prepared &quot;Character Text.&quot;<br />If you're a teacher, you can come to your own conclusions without further input from me.  If you're trying to teach yourself to read and write Chinese, I recommend that you use the readers rather than this book; learning to write Chinese is a task in itself that has little to do with linguistics.  You can read my review of the Readers under their proper site, if you're interested in pursuing the matter.	2002-01-30
US	50983162	R35E6M9RZ1A2J2	0300020600	492123186	Beginning Chinese Reader (Beginning Chinese Reader, Part I)	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Intelligent, Accomodating Method to Learn the Writing	The DeFrancis series of books on Chinese includes &quot;Beginning Chinese&quot;, &quot;Character Text for Beginning Chinese&quot;, the two volumes of &quot;Beginning Chinese Reader&quot;, and I think an intermediate book as well.  While I am not thrilled with &quot;Beginning Chinese&quot; as a text (you can read my review on that book), I think that the readers are admirable.  They are designed to teach the writing system on its own, independent of the course material in &quot;Beginning Chinese&quot;, and yet there is a certain thematic continuity between the two books, so that they can be used as a supplement to each other.  The Yale series used the same process in their earlier set of books, which are something of a classic in the field.<br />The books start off teaching you ten characters a lesson.  They build up from the simpler ones to the more complicated, and also drill you on forming words from the characters you already know (most Chinese &quot;words&quot;, if you can use the term, consist of two characters, each with a meaning of its own).<br />DeFrancis apparently produced the book &quot;Character Text for Beginning Chinese&quot; in addition to the Readers because some educators balk at the system of teaching the writing system independently, preferring to teach their students the words they learn to speak as they go along.  I've tried both ways, and I really believe that it's a mistake not to treat the writing system as a separate subject with beginners.  <br />You can probably teach yourself to write from these books without too much trouble.  However, learning to write Chinese is an aesthetic experience as well as a linguistic one, and I don't know how authentic your handwriting will be without a teacher.  DeFrancis takes it about as far as you can in a book, reviewing the traditional ways that Chinese children are taught to write the component parts in a balanced way.  The grammatical demands are minimal, since it's assumed that you're using other material for that part of the learning process.  On the whole, a very creditable effort, which is no doubt one reason why it has survived as a standard text for so long.	2002-01-29
US	50983162	R2BTUM0TKMBHZ2	0380897180	228720303	Captains of the Sands (English and Portuguese Edition)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Timeless protrayal of Brazil's Poverty	Amado's literary output falls rather neatly into two periods.  His early work is imbued with a strong sense of social responsibility, a fact for which he had some difficulty under the Vargas regime, and I believe he may have even done a short stint in jail over.  The second period, the post-&quot;Gabriela&quot; books, are a lot more laid back and anecdotal.<br />Sorry to say that in general the second period is the one that's more fun to read, and the books he wrote in the second half of his life are what established his international reputation.  A lot of his earlier stuff is not that great, with one exception - this book.<br />The story is about the kids on the street in Fortaleza, back in the 1930's.  To say that they're poor doesn't do justice to it - they live on the street.  By necessity they're thieves, but you can't help liking them.  They have aspirations of their own in life.<br />Explaining it in a few words like that may make the American reader think that he's dealing with some &quot;Angels with Dirty Faces&quot; sort of story.  It's not.  This is not a sentimental novel.  It's a reflection of some of the hard realities of Brazilian life, like the urban poverty that never seems to disappear.  But it also reflects some of the inherent optimism and the very un-American concern with each other that Brazilians manifest - features of their society that make Brazil such a wonderful place.	2002-01-29
US	50983162	R1DN3EWW71TGS3	0553051741	908573505	Show Down	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Same Faces, Different Book	In general, I am an admirer of Amado's work, but this is not his best effort.  He has once again introduced us to the cast of characters that he grew up with in his native Bahia - the miserably poor of the sertao, the vaqueros, the itinerant peddlars (one of which  - a Turk again, no less - is the main character), the narrow-minded clergy, all milling around and not really going much of anywhere.  The &quot;Showdown&quot; is a faceoff between bandits, which is a culmination of the events in this little backwater village on the Sao Francisco.<br />As usual, Amado is very good at providing us with a slice of life and a variety of interesting characters, but the story is a bit too thin in this work.  Not up to the level of &quot;Dona Flor&quot; or &quot;Gabriela.&quot;<br />Incidentally, the reference to a Sudbury Horse Classic in the trade reviews for this book are obviously for some other book, apparently an English mystery of the same name.  No horses here, except in an incidental way.	2002-01-29
US	50983162	R3JKEMIADONMO6	0140440925	68877915	Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Food for Thought	\\"Sir Gawain\\" is one of a number of stories that have come down to us from the Medieval period that one cannot help feeling has a wealth of hidden meaning behind it.  The figure of the \\"Green Man\\" is a common although wispy character in western mythology, and his face often stares out at us from cathedral walls in Europe.  The figure of Khidr in Islamic folklore, supposedly the prophet Enoch and whose very name means \\"green\\" in Arabic, makes one wish to find a Middle Eastern connection with this story, as there are in so much Medieval literature, such as Dante and Chaucer.<br />The story is obviously related to the ancient myths of death and regeneration in Celtic thought as well, and fits in well with the rest of the Arthurian legends.  All in all, a bit of an enigma as regards its source, and worth being aware of if you're in to that kind of thing.	2002-01-23
US	50983162	R3TOPF2HSVMZQL	0873522931	536071453	An Introduction to Old Occitan (Introductions to Older Languages, 4) (English and Old Provencal Edition)	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Scholarly Treatment of Occitan	There has been a slow but sure increase in interest in the Medieval period over the last 20 years or so. There are various reasons for it. One of them is the dismantling of the Eurocentric vision of history, which considered the Middle Ages to be an age of stagnancy (hence the name); we feel comfortable revising our views now. Another reason is the anthropological view of history put forward in the last 50 years largely by French structuralist historians, which encourages viewing a period in history on its own merits; naturally, they applied their analyses to the history of their own country first, and particularly to the Medieval period.<br />Another reason is the increase of interest in alternative spiritual traditions since the 1960's, which aside from promoting interest in areas like Buddhism and Sufism has also encouraged interest in Medieval Christian topics like Celtic Christianity and writers like Meister Eckhart, Walter Hilton and the author of \\"The Cloud of Unknowing\\". In the same vein, the Feminist movement has brought mystics like Hildegard of Bingen and Julian of Norwich into prominence, as well as interest in neo-pagan movements, which often have to turn to Medieval sources.<br />It is not at all surprising that an increase in interest in the history of the Languedoc also occurred. The troubadors and the related tradition of \\"Amour Courtois\\", arguably the first system of thought in Western history that accorded something resembling equality to women, was bound to attract interest. The murky and interesting stories of the Templars and the Cathars attract interest in various circles, and the genocide of the Albigensian Crusade is also a lesson in history worth retelling.<br />It is small wonder that the subject of the language of the troubadors would attract attention sooner or later, which leads us to this book. In fact, this is an excellent treatment of the subject, if accepted in the milieu in which it was originally written. <br />The fact is, this is a scholarly work, written primarily for advanced students in Medieval studies or Romance linguistics. Although he gives a half-hearted disclaimer in the introduction, it is pretty clear that Professor Paden expects anyone who picks up his book to be familiar with Latin grammar and probably a couple of modern Romance languages as well, and would no doubt be mildly surprised to find that anybody else was interested. As a result, there are various features that would be troublesome to some beginners; there are no vocabulary lists for the lessons, just the glossary at the back of the book.  Notes are only given to the readings when it is assumed you would get stuck; in general, it is assumed that the student will be able to recognize a lot of items and press on. The explanations of the verb forms are for the edification of the student of Romance Linguistics, and belabor a lot of points that more casual readers can actually ignore without any real loss.  To concentrate on them too much would make the subject look much harder than it really is.  The really sad part about this is that Old Occitan is really not a very difficult language - much easier than Old Irish, Old Norse, Old Church Slavonic and even Old English. <br />This book starts you off reading original texts from the very first lesson, which I found to be exciting, and so far anyway (I haven't finished the book but I'm about halfway through) I find the explanations quite adequate. If you have some familiarity with French or Spanish (or preferably both) you will not find this book too terribly difficult. If by some quirk you are familiar with Catalan you're halfway home already, since Occitan resembles Catalan to a remarkable degree. <br />I debated over whether the book deserved three stars or four; in the end I opted for four stars because Professor Paden can't be blamed if his book appeals to a larger audience than he thought it would. So be advised. If you don't have the background for the book it can be achore, but from the scholarly point of view it is an admirable piece of work.	2002-01-14
US	50983162	R3C8KSS636RRYG	0394758277	283946848	Farewell, My Lovely	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hardboiled Gold	I'm not much of a fiction reader, but I have just about everything Chandler ever wrote, including a copy of his screenplay for &quot;Double Indemnity.&quot;  Every couple of years I go back and read everything all over again.  How many mysteries can you do that with?<br />The thing is, of course, that you don't read Chandler for the mystery, which is just as well, because it's hard to figure out the story line in his books sometimes.  You read, and re-read, Chandler because he created a whole universe in his novels - an image of a Los Angeles with a seedy underside, which suited perfectly the milieu that was associated with the town in the 1940's - the movie people and the parasites that lived off of them, the internal immigrants that flooded California from the Midwest during the Depression, the alienation under a bright sun.  A lot of people got their image of California from Chandler.<br />You also read him for the irresistable charm of his protagonist, Marlowe, the shopworn Galahad with the relentlessly absorbing internal monologue that has been imitated by everybody from Jean Claude Belmondo to Garrison Keillor. For a while, Hollywood couldn't get enough of Marlowe, and well into the 70's movies were being made of his books - several of them have been made into movies twice, including this one.  I sometimes think that the Marlowe character appeals very strongly to men, or at least a certain type of men, and that's why so many actors - Bogart, Robert Montgomery, Robert Mitchum, and especially Dick Powell - really wanted to play him on the screen.<br />The story starts out with Marlowe just walking down the street and not minding his own business, as usual, and ends up with  multiple murders (some of them totally senseless), unspoken mistakes in judgement ( a favorite device of Chandler's) and a lot of unanswered questions.  You always find yourself with a sense of brooding emptiness at the end of a Chandler book, a feeling that you've been through an incrediblestruggle to no purpose at all, and yet you're always glad you were along for the ride all the same.  <br />This may very well be the best of the Marlowe novels; it's in my top two for technical perfection along with &quot;The Big Sleep&quot;, although I have a personal emotional attachment to &quot;The Long Goodbye.&quot;  My advice:  try them all.	2001-12-19
US	50983162	R2F5POZFLJRZB4	0394758250	370926930	The Lady in the Lake	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Worth a Read	In my estimation, the weakest of the Marlowe series.  But hey, middling Chandler is still a whole lot better than the best of most other writers.  If you like Chandler, and Marlowe, you'll enjoy it.	2001-12-19
US	50983162	R3A14RAWLDANVA	0374504938	459059688	The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth, Amended and Enlarged Edition	Books	4	159	167	N	N	Flawed Masterpiece	I am a great fan of Robert Graves.  I find him to be an outstanding poet, an excellent novelist, and a compelling writer of non-fiction.  Probably the best known, if not the best, example of the last mentioned genre is &quot;The White Goddess.&quot;<br />When &quot;Goddess&quot; first appeared in the late 1940's it was a groundbreaking work; for lack of a better definition it is a book on cultural anthropolgy written by a poet, who felt that as a a poet and a man who understood the inner motivation of the poet he would give his views on the Muse and her invocation.  The book covers a lot of territory, sprawling across civilization from the Greeks to the Celts, and from the three forms of the Muse to the Fisher King to the Ogham alphabet.  It wanders so far that it's hard to keep up with Mr. Graves as he gallops across centuries and over distances.  For those of us used to Mr. Graves' usual tight control of his material and its presentation, it's difficult to deal with how he jumps from subject to subject with little or no notice.<br />I'm almost tempted to say that this is Mr. Graves' version of &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot;, only in a non-fictional form.  It certainly is his encomium to the White Goddess, whom he identifies as the original Muse of all poets, including himself.  There's enough to think about for years in this book, and neo-pagan movements may be described as having largely started based on the thoughts provoked by this book.<br />But Graves was a poet, not a social scientist, and in the last fifty years many of his observations have been proven to be wrong.  This in itself is not so surprising, nor is it really such a bad thing; the real problem is the amount of emotional residue that those ideas left in their wake.  Graves makes some observations that some would find offensive now, such as his allegation that women can't be real poets - they have no Muse to appeal to, the White Goddess only wants the worship of males.  He makes a possible exception of Sappho, for what it's worth.<br />In short, &quot;Goddess&quot; still deserves to be read - it's a good, albeit exhausting read, and Graves is always worth reading - but it would be a mistake to pick up his ideas and run with them.	2001-12-17
US	50983162	R1PH1NLLUJ74YA	0140440720	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Genius Written, Genius Translated	Suetonius is an interesting read, one of the more interesting reads in the corpus of classical Latin.  If you find Cicero a tired old blowhard and Julius Caesar a bit too self-serving, Suetonius will beguile you with his tidbits of upper class chitchat from the first century and his often extremely ribald comments about the private lives of the Caesars.<br />But a great deal of the credit has to go to Robert Graves.  Any classical writer can (and often does) sound boring in the hands of the wrong translator.  But Graves can make these people sound like modern political figures.  He does what few translators do - he turns a classical Latin work into a compelling read.  It's always a pleasure when a great writer also does translation work, and nobody does the classics better than Robert Graves.  If you want to read one work of Latin in translation, it should be this one.	2001-12-14
US	50983162	R1DAHMDF8DZ9SX	0140171991	622842279	The Greek Myths: Complete Edition	Books	4	18	20	N	N	A Standard Reference	Many of us had to suffer through some rehashing of classical mythology when we were in high school, as often as not Edith Hamilton's book &quot;Mythology.&quot;  While having the stories re-told to us when we were young is a part of a literary education (a dwindling part, sorry to say), sooner or later you have to graduate to a more authoritative retelling of the myths, to use as a reference and a doorway into other disciplines, such as anthropology.<br />Graves' book fills that gap.  He provides sources for all of the myths he tells, and gives variant readings.  He also retells what the classical authors had to say about the myths, and gives a wealth of etymological information about the myths as well, which given that Graves was a formidable classical scholar is saying quite a lot.<br />The only reason I'm not giving this book five stars is because like a great deal of Graves' anthropological commentary in his various books, what he has to say is out of date.  I suppose that this was inevitable with the passage of time, but on the whole this does not detract from the literary effort.  Graves is still the only classical mythology reference on my bookshelf.	2001-12-14
US	50983162	R26AXUEHG729GS	0679723226	2859176	Double Indemnity	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One of Cain's Best	James Cain is not a mystery writer. There are no mysteries in his books, we know who did everything almost from the beginning. However, as a thriller writer he is unsurpassed. The action in his stories moves at breakneck pace, which is one reason, incidentally, why they are so short. I can't think of any other writer who exploited story length to the level that he did.<br />Cain's characters live in a world where a maleficent fate sooner or later overtakes them. There are no heroes; there are only ugly people. The protagonists in his stories are all ugly; the really unsettling thing is that you can usually find something of yourself in them. Walter Huff (he's renamed Walter Neff in the movie, for some reason) is an insurance agent who teams up with a woman to knock off her husband and collect on his accident policy. He's not a sympathetic character. We watch Huff go into a long slide, and become a pawn in the hands of people that he doesn't even know before the end - maleficent fate.<br />The movie, while very good, does not tell quite the same story as the book. Although Cain wrote the novel, the screenplay was written by Raymond Chandler, with an additional credit to Billy Wilder, who directed the movie. Chandler managed to turn Walter into a sort of Philip Marlowe gone wrong, right down to the snappy internal dialogue that was Chandler's trademark. Chandler also added an element of morality into the tale that it didn't have in the book. And why does Walter kill Phyllis in the movie? I don't think I'm giving anything away by saying that this doesn't happen in the book.<br />If you're hooked on hardboiled fiction you should read this book. And although a lot of years have passed, maybe you'll appreciate why Cain was considered such a racy writer in his day, too.	2001-12-12
US	50983162	R23M28EP31XC9E	0679723250	525245685	The Postman Always Rings Twice	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Beyond Hardboiled	Whenever the question of the origin of the &quot;hardboiled&quot; school of detective literature comes up in conversation, three names always get mentioned:  Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler and James Cain.  Hammett was the master of the character, Chandler of the atmosphere.<br />And Cain was the master of the plot.  Not in the sense of trying to tease us with the &quot;whodunit&quot; like the great British talespinners; Cain's books are not mysteries in the true sense of the word, because we usually know almost from the outset Who Done It.  But Cain will keep you on the edge of your seat following the incredible turns of fate that his characters experience.  And perhaps that's the key to Cain, not only in this book but in all of his others:  the real major character is an unfriendly fate, which sooner or later destroys the protagonists.  Cain's stories are ugly - his characters are all either ugly and stupid or ugly and clever - and perhaps this is the ugliest story he ever wrote.  <br />Hollywood was always both fascinated and repulsed by Cain; Warner Brothers made &quot;Double Indemnity&quot; into a movie, but only after they turned it over to Rayond Chandler to do the screenplay and &quot;sanitize&quot; it (Billy Wilder got screenplay credits along with Chandler, but the book was Cain's; it's more than worth a read too).  &quot;Postman&quot; has been made into a movie twice, and while both versions are admirable each in their own way, neither one of them manages to express the utter futility of life, and the sense of just how amoral the average man can be in the right situation, that are the hallmarks of Cain's work.<br />I think it's not the sex in his novels (of which there is some, but tame stuff by modern standards) that made Cain unsettling in his day, but rather this sense of futility, and that is why Hollywood, and society in general, had a hard time accepting Cain as a mainstream writer.  Great?  Yes.  Give him a read - it's like watching a train wreck.  It's horrible, but you can't take your eyes off it.	2001-12-11
US	50983162	R3UR94I0K84CB9	0679772871	380732504	The Magic Mountain	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Education	Probably more than any other author since Goethe, Thomas Mann wrote the quintessential &quot;Bildungsroman&quot; with The Magic Mountain.  Like all of Mann's works, it is a sprawling monster of a novel, getting into just about everything under the sun from the first impression of hearing a phonograph (back when they really were new) all the way to the intellectual underpinnings of the counterreformation.  Like most great writers, Mann can get into your interior life, and he will do so here in a way that will put you into the sanitarium with our hero Kastorp, and share his life and discoveries.  It never ceases to amaze me how the thinnest of plots - none at all, in fact - can spin such a pure gold of a novel.  I must confess that I prefer &quot;Faustus&quot;, but after that this is my favorite Mann novel.<br />However, I will stick with H.T. Lowe-Porter's version over Mr. Woods'.  Ms. Lowe-Porter had the advantage of a personal and professional relationship with Mann, and if Mann were writing in English (which he spoke passably, I believe) I think it would probably parallel her version more than Mr. Woods'.	2001-12-04
US	50983162	R17I673IS1W3EZ	0385079664	155986982	The Sufis	Books	3	38	47	N	N	A Sufi Primer?	For a lot of people, their first acquaintance with the Sufis came from this book.  It practically was for me when I read the book in 1978.<br />I must admit that I re-read the book a number of times, not just in search of spiritual nourishment but also as a great commentary on several features of Middle Eastern civilization and cross-cultural currents between the Muslim and Christian worlds.<br />After all this time, all the re-readings, and more than a little bit of time in the Middle East, I must admit to some misgivings about the book.  First of all, the book seems not to be about the Sufis per se, but about Idries Shah's Sufis.  What Shah fails to let us know is that there are literally millions of people that are members of Sufic orders, and they are far from being all mystics.  Some of them are about as mystical as the Elks Club.  At another end of the spectrum, some of them bear a marked resemblance to the Taliban.  Most of the ones I have encountered tend to resemble Charismatic Christian groups more than anything else I can think of.<br />Secondly, on the one hand Mr. Shah tells us that Sufism is a movement, if you will, that stands outside of any one form of belief and has somehow managed to manifest itself all over the Eurasian world at least in some shape or form for millenia, and then he proceeds to describe its history in the Middle East, but in a way that almost seems divorced from Middle Eastern society.  I believe that Sufism is an Islamic phenomenon, and if you wish to understand it, or participate in it, you need to at least familiarize yourself with the Qur'an and Islamic theology; if this is not to your liking, my advice is that you pursue some other form of mystical experience, because otherwise you are building your house on sand.  It is all very useful to talk about pre-Islamic &quot;Sufis&quot;, &quot;Hidden Sufis&quot;, and about how the medieval Sufis reacted against scholasticism, but without an awareness of the world view in which they participated you can't tell what they were reacting against.<br />And as for discussing the pervasiveness of Sufic symbolism in various Western institutions, this is very interesting and no doubt even true, but I do not see what relevance it has to a spiritual quest, outside of perhaps keeping the reader's attention long enough to go on to higher things.  <br />So try &quot;The Sufis&quot; - regardless of anything else I might say, it is certainly an interesting read.  But don't think that you'll know all about the Sufis when you're done with it.	2001-12-03
US	50983162	R2FPRRALJ9V45R	0140192522	887678950	The Way of the Sufi (Compass)	Books	3	12	33	N	N	Anecdotal	I won't say that this book is not worth reading, but I do think that you will walk away from it feeling that it was oddly antiseptic.  It has a lengthy introduction, most of which is almost unintelligible unless you have already read Mr. Shah's book &quot;The Sufis.&quot;  The rest of the book consists of snippets taken from the writings of the great Sufi masters, mostly of the Medieval period.  Some of them are rather intriguingly exotic, as if taken from the &quot;Arabian Nights.&quot;  Some of them seem to express disarmingly fresh and modern views.<br />Just about all of them are completely divorced from their context, and I find that objectionable.  I found this particularly annoying in his treatment of Rumi, but that may be because I'm more familiar with his work than any of the other writers in the book.  <br />Perhaps I am just missing Mr. Shah's point.  Or maybe I'm just not the mystical type.  However, I do know that I have opened this book at random many times in hope of spiritual nourishment and I always put it down again after a few pages; I don't think that I've ever been able to read the whole thing straight through.  While I have respect for Mr. Shah within the Sufi community, if I can use that term, I found this book to be - well, rather boring.	2001-12-03
US	50983162	R355XVFZPF3WHX	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Authentic	Obviously, Tolstoy deserves five stars in anybody's book. When I give this edition four stars, I'm talking about the translation.<br />Ms. Edmonds' translation is a few decades old, but she gives a crisp rendering of the classic, and I would pick her any day over the all too well-worn Garnett translation.<br />Still, some points could use some work. I can't escape the feeling that Ms. Edmond's English prose is somewhat more labored than Tolstoy's Russian, which is disarmingly simple and lucid, as he always is. Also, it is a regular source of disappointment to me that any translation of &quot;War and Peace&quot; that I have ever seen translates even the passages in French and German (of which there is a considerable amount, generally in conversations and correspondence) into English. It doesn't make up almost half of the book, as someone tried to tell me once (!), but the point is that Tolstoy was trying to be authentic.<br />I suppose the English reading public won't tolerate leaving the French as it was, and admittedly Ms. Edmonds gives us a taste of it occasionally, with a phrase here and there. The only other drawback is her translation of the character Denisov's speech pattern. In the original, Tolstoy was trying to show that he affected a French accent in his Russian, pronouncing his &quot;r's&quot; as in French. In this translation, he sounds like Elmer Fudd.<br />Aside from these concerns, on the whole an impressive piece of work. If you're going to read Tolstoy in English, this is the version to do it with.	2001-11-26
US	50983162	R1LEIFLNAWM7D2	0393004651	428206781	The Complete Prose Tales of Alexandr Sergeyevitch Pushkin	Books	5	66	67	N	N	The Best of Them All	Virtually anybody who prepares a list of the five greatest writers in world history will include at least one Russian on the list.  If there is only one, that one should be Pushkin.<br />Unfortunately, Pushkin is given short shrift outside of his homeland.  The reason is not hard to explain - most of his work is poetry, which translates badly.  What's worse, even in translation his poetry wouldn't read any better than, say, Lermontov, whereas the difference would be obvious to a Russian, just as the difference between Shakespeare and Marlowe would be to an English speaker.<br />Pushkin's prose works provide a basis for remedying the situation. His stories are disarmingly simple and readable, just like his poetry.  Yet practically every major Russian novelist of the nineteenth century acknowledged his debt to Pushkin as a model and crafter of prose, as well as a source of themes.  This includes Gogol, Goncharov, Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky.<br />My personal favorites are &quot;The Captain's Daughter&quot;, &quot;The Moor of Peter the Great&quot;, which is about Pushkin's own great grandfather, who was Ethiopian, and most of all &quot;The Queen of Spades&quot;, which practically singlehandedly created the genre of stories of the supernatural.  Any one of the stories can be done in one sitting (well, maybe one long sitting for a few of them).  Do yourself a favor and make the acquaintance of one of the best writers that ever lived.	2001-11-26
US	50983162	R392H96FXV676D	0140095144	755563570	Arabian Sands: Revised Edition (Travel Library)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A Minor Masterpiece	Thesiger stands in a long tradition of English who found the deserts of the Middle East hospitable.  Wilberforce Clarke, Burton, Doughty, Lawrence, Glubb, Philby (Senior) - the list sometimes seems endless.<br />One is tempted to speculate that the Arab world brings out certain facets of the English character, and perhaps it is true.  &quot;Arabian Sands&quot; is one of the best travel books ever written.  The purported idea behind the book was a chronicle of crossing Al Rub' al Khali - The &quot;Empty Quarter&quot; of the Eastern Arabian peninsula, one of the most barren areas on earth.  This central focus of the expedition, and the story, gradually pales as one reads on and the reader becomes caught up in Thesiger's relationship with his Bedouin companions.<br />The Bedouin are admittedly a fringe society  in the Middle East.  However, the values that their way of life represent have always been seen as having a central place in the Arab view of life, and  Thesiger's obvious sympathy for his companions allows us to understand them as humans as few other western books can do.  In this sense he resembles T.E. Lawrence, although he manages to tell his story in a lot less words than Lawrence did.<br />This book will stand the test of time as one of the best books in the English language on the Arabs, and it is a rewarding read.	2001-11-18
US	50983162	R1836QDM4FBYT3	0674704940	826368524	A Prince of Our Disorder: The Life of T. E. Lawrence	Books	4	22	28	N	N	Lawrence's Interior Life	It is a commonplace to refer to T.E. Lawrence as one of the most enigmatic figures of twentieth century history.  One sometimes wonders if it is his enigmatic character that continues to make him interesting, rather than what he achieved in his lifetime.<br />This is, as far as I know, the first attempt by a psychiatric professional to write a life of Lawrence.  So much about Lawrence's personality - his illegitimacy, his craving for anonymity after the war even as he contrarily managed to worm his way into the spotlight so many times, his name change ostensibly in honor of G.B. Shaw, and probably most of all his experience at Deraa, made him an object of general interest, not to say lurid speculation.  Lawrence, with his usual flair, manages to give us enough about his interior life in &quot;Seven Pillars&quot; to pique our interest without actually telling us anything.<br />While I must admit that I enjoyed the book, I must also say that I walked away from it feeling that I did not know any more about Lawrence after finishing it than I did before.  The author covers a great deal of terrain, but I think that we're all not any closer to understanding Lawrence.  Maybe the definitive biography is still waiting to be written.  Maybe it never will be.	2001-11-18
US	50983162	R1OB81F4BNPLRJ	0486212173	598261391	001: Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah (Volume 1)	Books	4	40	43	N	N	A Riot	It's hard to take Richard Burton seriously nowadays.  His sardonic humor and his hilarious deadpan observations about Middle Eastern life sound more like a satire on Victorian attitudes than an actual travel story.  And yet, underneath the veneer one sometimes catches a glimpse of sympathy and actual respect for the people he writes about.<br />Under the veneer, too, there is a hard core layer of reality, and a surprising number of his observations are true even today.  The thing that gets me is that he was able to pull off the pilgrimage at all!  As a sometime traveler and student of languages, I have been in situations where I have tried to pass for a native, and regardless of where you go it is a difficult act to pull off for more than five minutes.  How Burton got all the way to Mecca without being stoned to death is beyond me.<br />Which makes it a good adventure story as well as good travel literature.  One of the most enjoyable books I have ever read.  I recommend it highly.	2001-11-16
US	50983162	R3SMUIUV050QZK	0394717813	421387754	Growth of the Soil	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Artless, Simple, Memorable	Let me preface my remarks by saying that I am not a big reader of fiction, and I am particularly NOT a fan of Knut Hamsun.  I have read several of his other books, including &quot;Hunger&quot; and &quot;Pan&quot; and only an effort of will power got me through them.<br />But &quot;The Growth of the Soil&quot; is a pearl.  It sits in the same realm of artless simplicity that is a hallmark of so much good Scandinavian literature, like Selma Lagerlof, Bjorne Bjornson and (under the surface) Sigrid Undset.  The story of a poor farmer - calling him &quot;poor&quot; is almost an understatement - and his struggles to keep body and soul together in the far north is written in such simple prose, and yet Hamsun has a knack of getting into our interior life with his story and character.  One other reviewer called it one of the best of the 20th century, and I wholeheartedly agree.	2001-11-16
US	50983162	R1ZS2KQ3KRF2QH	0521272963	595569568	002: Elementary Modern Standard Arabic: Volume 2, Lessons 31-45; Appendices (Elementary Modern Standard Arabic, Lessons 31-45)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Okay for the Classroom	For a long time, Abboud and McCarus was the only game in town if you wanted to learn Arabic.  Virtually every college course in Arabic used it throughout the USA.<br />Now the picture is different.  Arabic studies are not the arcane field they once were, and there is a great variety of material out there.  Still, this set has its virtues.  It has a lot of drill material, and while this can be a bore, it is a godsend in the final analysis if you really want to learn literary Arabic.<br />The abundance of material makes it difficult to use as a self-teacher, however, and its better not used for that.  Also, the print (done with an Arabic typewriter) is hard to read.  My advise to the student is to start off with another course, and then switch to this series of readers when you've reached the intermediate stage.	2001-11-16
US	50983162	R1MX8UEQ3CZLBS	0844657506	107904275	Travels in Arabia Deserta	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Gives Meaning to the Phrase &quot;Travel Classic&quot;	There are few travel books that can stand up to the depredations of time - indeed, travel literature by its nature tends to be ephemeral.  We may peruse the Victorian travelers, but mainly to get a sense of the exotic, from a time when it still was that way.<br />Fewer travel books still can claim to have had a conscious impact beyond their own genre.  One thinks of Stendahl's travels in the South of France, Radishchev's journey from Petersburg to Moscow, or Stephens and Catherwood in the Yucatan.  But Doughty is in a class by himself.<br />This remarkably eccentric man with the remarkably eccentric writing style set off into one of the last fringes of society, to a world where the art of the word was cultivated and where a man's worth was set by his speech.  He is not an easy read.  Yet his writing reflects the sense of a major intellect from one culture confronted by a tradition which is very old, very venerable and yet totally alien from that in which he was raised.  That he sought to explain it by creating a new way of writing is perhaps not remarkable.<br />Many writers of the last century have been quite vocal about the debt that they owe him; one sometimes wonders if this is honored more in the breach than we would like to believe.  But try him on for size, but be prepared to be patient.  You will find that his style will win you over if you are.	2001-11-16
US	50983162	R1ESUHNIMJWVJK	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Among the Best	It's hard to add any accolades on top of those from the other reviewers at this site, but aside from the fact that this book has a lot to say about the nature of reality, it makes some very concrete statements about the path to enlightenment and how, in accordance with Soto teaching, it does not always occur in the &quot;instantaneous&quot; way that it is usually described in Zen literature.  An encouraging thought for those of us who believe that facing ultimate reality is an ongoing task which has to be nurtured every day.  Every Buddhist, whether of the openly committed or the closet kind, should have this one on their bookshelf.	2001-11-15
US	50983162	R2LEK36GX1RIXY	0517149907	488153584	I Ching: Book of Changes	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Save your Money	Generally, I am a defender of James Legge's translations against the depredations of those who would condemn him as an obfuscating embarassment in the world of Classical Chinese translations.  Generally.<br />In this case, I must admit that if you're interested at all in the Yi Jing you're better off avoiding Legge's translation entirely.  In the original Chinese it is an arcane book to begin with.  Legge's arcane language on top of that results in a book that is indeed a conundrum.  You may as well use &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot; for divination.	2001-11-15
US	50983162	R1D0H8BO21S1R8	069109750X	815743609	The I Ching, or,  Book of Changes (Bollingen Series XIX) (Bollingen Series (General))	Books	4	84	92	N	N	The Standard by which the Others are Measured	There are a considerable number of translations of the Yi Jing on the market.  For my money, this is still the benchmark.  It is true that it is old, and it was a translation of a German version, but such things are not all that unusual in the world of translating; to date, the best all-around Arabic-English Dictionary - the Wehr-Cowan - is a German translation.<br />People use this version for divination, but I feel that Wilhelm's translation is primarily a text for studying and meditation, and I find the depth of his version still surpasses any other that I have seen.  If you consider the Yi Jing to be a serious book, you should obtain this translation, if only to supplement your understanding of the matter.	2001-11-09
US	50983162	R8YZ6UCASWF34	1570626456	680229023	I Am Wind You Are Fire: The Life and Work of Rumi	Books	5	61	66	N	N	Excellent	There are a number of writers on Islamic topics that are excellent from differing perspectives.  There are only two Western authors, however, that I have any respect for when it comes to the subject of Islamic spirituality.  One of them was Frithjof Schuon, and the other is Annemarie Schimmel.<br />With all of the fuss about Rumi and the whole New Age Sufi thing, it is all too easy to forget that Rumi was a Muslim (sometimes I suspect that too many people would like to forget it).  Rumi was the sort of person that he was because he was a Muslim, and not in spite of that fact.  Professor Schimmel places Rumi squarely in the Islamic perspective, which is where he belongs.  This book provides the best short introduction to his life and thought within that context that I have run across, and I recommend it highly to anyone interested in his life and work.	2001-11-09
US	50983162	R2AF4H4EOVI9PM	0140441859	108826915	The Narrow Road to the Deep North and Other Travel Sketches (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	72	78	N	N	Intimate and Comfortable	Poetry translation is a thankless task, and in the final analysis it is rarely successful.  Even when it is successful, it is usually for the wrong reasons.  Lessing's translations of Shakespeare into German are a case in point; they are something of a minor classic in German literature, but that's because Lessing was a good poet himself.  That doesn't mean that his translations are faithful.<br />Oriental poetry in English has a similar fate.  We are used to accepting translations of Chinese poetry into blank verse, which is the last thing it resembles structurally in Chinese.  However, it is true that the sentiment that we expect in blank verse tends to resemble the sentiments expressed in Chinese poetry, although it would be a mistake to carry that too far.<br />Then there is haiku, of which Basho is probably the greatest master.  We all think we know what haiku is supposed to be - seventeen syllables (5-7-5), no rhyme, and a &quot;surprise&quot; at the end.  This has become so familiar that the haiku has actually become a genre in English poetry.  It doesn't take into account the almost stream-of-consciousness sensibility that haiku normally express in Japanese, and it can't, due to the limitations on what is acceptable sentence structure in English.<br />What I feel Mr. Yuasa achieved in his translation was to bring some of the Japanese sensibility of wabi and sabi into Basho's work, not by his translations of the poems themselves, but in his translation of Basho's commentary.  This was a stroke of genius on his part.  Anybody who has attempted translations of haiku feels the frustration of not being able to convey the atmosphere inherent in the poems; after all, there's only so much you can do with seventeen syllables!  By letting the intimate loveliness of Basho's own commentary shine through, he provides a proper setting for the poems themselves.  An excellent bit of work.	2001-11-08
US	50983162	R2S0UZF0AYI5OS	0486227464	658092227	Confucian Analects, The Great Learning & The Doctrine of the Mean	Books	3	50	53	N	N	After You've Read the Other Translations, Try This One	There are lots of good reasons to condemn Legge's translations of the Chinese classics to the graveyard of moribund scholarship.  He's barely readable - yes, it's true.  Legge was no giant of the written word when he did these translations to begin with, and the passage of time has made the phrasing seem so archaic that you wonder if he was trying to sound unintelligible even when he wrote it.<br />Legge also uses a transliteration system that is so eccentric as to be indecipherable if you are trying to trace out the actual sounds of the Chinese words.  The reason for this seems to be that the pronunciation of Chinese has changed sufficiently to make his transliteration obsolete.<br />But Legge has one advantage that no other translator had, or ever can have again.  He did his translations when the Confucian scholarly tradition was still alive in China, and as a result he could consult with scholars within this tradition to determine the meaning of the phrases as they were understood in the traditional context.  It's a little like having an erudite clergyman explain the meaning of a phrase in the Bible rather than an archeologist - while both explanations are valid in their own way, the clergyman's explanation will indicate a living belief rather than a dissection.<br />And that is Legge's great value.  Most Chinese language scholars will give him a nod, even today.  For the beginner, he's not a good place to start, admittedly.  But he has his virtues.	2001-11-06
US	50983162	RGMHE64B2HJR2	0802134777	999711644	The Book of Songs: The Ancient Chinese Classic of Poetry	Books	4	85	86	N	N	Excellent Introduction to a Difficult Book	The Book of Songs (Shi Jing) is one of the seminal works of Chinese Civilization, along with the Book of Changes (Yi Jing), the Book of History (Shu Jing) and the Book of Rites (Li Chi).  All four of these books were already old when Confucius flourished, and tradition states that they were edited by him into their present form.<br />Old indeed they are, and virtually inaccessible even to those fairly proficient in Chinese.  A mere knowledge of the Classical idiom is no guarantee of understanding them; The Yi Jing in its original Chinese is little more than a skein of characters strung together, each one of them generally to be understood on its own rather than as part of a sentence.  The Shi Jing is a book of poetry, but it is poetry from a remote antiquity; it contains many words that occur nowhere else in Chinese literature, the poems usually don't rhyme any more (yes, Chinese poetry rhymes!) and no doubt some of the poems date back to an extremely remote shamanistic past in Chinese history.  They are venerated for the moral message contained in them, and also for the spontaneity to life that they express - a quality that is prized so highly in East Asian culture.  It is a taproot of East Asian thought, just as the psalms and Homer are for the West.<br />Which makes Waley's translation all the more amazing, in that he could actually produce a work that is so absorbing and edifying.  Waley was something of a genius of translation; he never visited the Far East - he claimed it would ruin his impression of it - but he translated so much of the best of Chinese and Japanese literature, and he did it so well.  Some of the items he translated have never been attempted by anybody else, and while there are other translations of the Shi Jing his is far and away the best one to read.  <br />Those who are familiar with Waley's other works may find the book a disappointment, which is unfortunate.  This is an extremely difficult work to translate, much harder than the Analects, to say nothing of the popular Chinese novels that Waley also did into English.  The problem is bringing the material to life, and I feel that Waley did as much as could be done with it.<br />This book was, I believe, out of print for quite a few years.  I'm glad to see it's back.	2001-11-06
US	50983162	R25L8F091PC0QB	0807059110	993568779	A Buddhist Bible	Books	3	37	44	N	N	Where we all started	I read this anthology for the first time when I was sixteen years old, which is much longer ago than I care to elaborate on.  At the time, I thought it was electrifying.  The book no doubt was one of my inspirations for taking up Oriental Studies in college.<br />I lost my original copy years ago, no doubt the victim of a book sale, and I finally purchased another one about five years ago.  While I still value the book, I realize now just how eccentric Goddard was in his choice of material that he included.  He chopped up many of the pieces that in the book, deleting many portions and rearranging the parts that he left in.  A lot of the texts that he did include are not very readable, in my opinion.  And why is the Dao De Jing in a book of Buddhist scriptures?<br />In short, I think that there's a lot of other good stuff out on the market now, and this book has been eclipsed.  The would-be Buddhist enthusiast will find little in this book to show her what contemporary Buddhism is like.  However, I guess that one has to start somewhere, so perhaps there is still a market for this book.	2001-11-06
US	50983162	R2INL9SULU54LW	014044131X	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	3	7	16	N	N	What, Another One?	How many translations of Lauzi are there on the market? Twenty? A hundred? How many do we need? This one has been around for a long time, but it has stood the test of time better than most.<br />Believe me when I say that there is no such thing as an even marginally adequate translation of the Dao De Jing, and there never will be. All the translator can hope to do is keep it simple and have a nice presentation on the page. This translation does this, without overdoing it.	2001-11-06
US	50983162	RFAQ7F3OGVH8Z	0684836343	323215145	A Short History of Chinese Philosophy	Books	3	17	28	N	N	A Good Start	Professor Fung's book has been around for a long, long time, and countless Westerners have gotten their introduction to Chinese philosophy from it.<br />As such, it has provided a great service to both Westerners and Chinese in helping to have that gap bridged.  Having said that, I am not at all sure whether it points the reader in the right direction.  For one thing, it concentrates too much on Zhou Dynasty thought.  While a concentration in this era is to be expected, just as a similar survey of Western philosophy would concentrate on the Greeks, I feel it was taken too far; there was a great deal more speculation in Chinese thought through the last two thousand years than even Chinese themselves seem to realize.<br />Another thing is that the book seems to me to pigeonhole Chinese philosophy too much, no doubt in order to make it understandable to Westerners, but after a while it's too much.  In short, don't accept this book as the final word on the subject.	2001-11-06
US	50983162	RDXH6VWKNVTEB	0807612782	367024154	The Blood of Kings: Dynasty and Ritual in Maya Art	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Required Reading for the Maya Enthusiast	Mary Ellen Miller and the late Linda Schele put this book together in 1986.  The field of Mayan studies is a fast-moving arena, and Mayanists already know a lot more now than they did when this book came out, but in my opinion this book is still the place to start if you want to begin learning about the Maya.<br />For one thing, the photography of the artwork is fantastic - the book is worth acquiring for that alone.  Secondly, the commentary is by the greatest names in the field, including an introduction by Michael Coe.  Thirdly, the book never strays from academic discipline, unlike a great deal of New Agey-type material written about the Maya.  In fact, the book studiously avoids making any observations that cannot be substantiated - perhaps a reaction in the field of Mayan studies against the sometimes too pat assumptions that Eric Thompson made when he dominated the subject.  Fourthly, it covers all the major cultural features of the Maya, providing abundant commentary on each piece of art portrayed.  Last but not least, it tackles the thorny subject of Maya iconography.  This is a field about which we already know a great deal more about now than we knew in 1986, but in fact if the book were written today there is probably very little that would actually be changed.<br />The book was printed in Japan, for some reason.  No harm in that - the Japanese have a tradition, and a reputation, of producing quality bindings and excellent photographic reproductions, both of which are evident in this edition and which add to the quality of the book.  I can't recommend it too highly to anyone interested in the Maya.	2001-11-05
US	50983162	R17O1T0LFA6X3U	0140298517	367419940	The Basque History of the World: The Story of a Nation	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Leaves You Hungry for More	I found this book to be delicious fun to read.  Anyone who has read much in Spanish history is left with an awareness of this enigmatic people who have left such a strong mark on Hispanic culture in so many ways.  And yet, until now there has not been a popular history of the Basques to refer to.<br />Unfortunately, I think that the definitive book on Basque culture is yet to be written.  While I learned a great deal about the Basques' own folklore about themselves, a little about Basque cuisine, and a great deal more than I want to know about the separatist movement and the modern demographic shifts in the Basque area, I felt that I still didn't get a substantial picture of the Basques as people from this book.  Perhaps Mr. Kurlansky wanted to write more (he obviously has warm feelings for his subject), but he felt that nobody would be willing to read a longer book on the subject.  If so, I hope he will reconsider and give us more.	2001-10-19
US	50983162	R18SQOHTWYQRMR	052109240X	417293386	An Introduction to Modern Literary Arabic	Books	4	19	20	N	N	One of the Best	This introduction to the literary language is indeed excellent.  Cowan provides detailed, clear explanations of grammatical points and moves in a logical progression through the material.  The book is most decidedly not of the &quot;Teach Yourself&quot; type, in that it is presumed that the reader is educated and familiar with grammatical terminology, and it does not interface with the spoken language.<br />I can only compare it with Haywood and Nahmad's &quot;New Arabic Grammar of the Written Language&quot;, which it resembles considerably.  (Cowan was published by Cambridge, whereas Haywood and Nahmad was published by Oxford - interesting!).  I learned Arabic with the Haywood and Nahmad book, which I preferred and which I felt provided more background material than Cowan.  Cowan is much more concise, which in my opinion is not necessarily an asset in this subject.  You may want to check out both of these books; they are both still in print, both available through Amazon and were both published about the same time (1950's) and therefore somewhat dated, although not as much as you might think.<br />If you're shopping around for a self-teacher of literary Arabic a third title you may investigate is Wheeler Thackston's &quot;Introduction to Koranic and Classical Arabic&quot;, which is also available through Amazon and which some students might find more amenable.  Professor Thackston expects the would-be learner to be intelligent, but possibly less linguistically sophisticated than the Oxbridge books do.  The only other choice I would recommend is a set of four books by an Austrian Arabist named Kaplivatsky (The books are in English). They were first published in the 1940's and were in print up until at least 20 years ago.  Kaplivatsky really teaches you the classical idiom, and when you're done with him you can read Abu Nuwas without difficulty.  I gave them away to a budding Arabic student some time ago and I have regretted it ever since.  Does anybody know if they're still around?	2001-10-19
US	50983162	R3L5SC5QX4GIVV	187918124X	770253679	The Hidden Maya: A New Understanding of Maya Glyphs	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Fools Rush In?	I approach this review with some diffidence. Mr.Brennan, who claims to be an expert on several fields, including writing systems and indian sign language, makes several claims that struck me as strange, even outlandish. However, I am not in any sense an expert on the Maya, so I am uncertain whether what he states is mainstream among Mayanists or not.<br />I almost didn't get past the introduction. Mr. Brennan made some comments on the Chinese writing system which seemed erroneous to me, and that is a subject about which I do know something. His claim that there are 80,000 Chinese characters is an anecdotal figure, not usually cited by experts, and the largest dictionary ever compiled has only 40,000. He also said that Japanese use only 1200 characters, whereas the Joyo Kanji list is 1,945 characters. As Mr. Brennan spent some time in Japan studying the writing system I would expect him to know that.  Mr. Brennan also seems convinced that the indians of Mesoamerica left us a record of the appearance of the Crab Nebula in Orion - a statement that he seems to back up with the flimsiest evidence. <br />Upon receiving the book I discovered that it is published by a New Age publisher, something which I didn't know when I purchased it. While I have nothing against much New Age material, I am skeptical about accepting it as having a scholarly imprimatur, and therefore I must admit I was uncertain about Mr. Brennan's expertise. Several of his observations seemed unsettling to me.<br />One was the concept, frequently reiterated, that the Maya had a full blown tradition of drama in which they acted out their myths. He also says that a lot of Maya painting, particularly on ceremonial vessels, were depictions of these dramas. This would be lovely if it were all true, but it sounds a bit too much, coincidentally, like the ancient Greeks<br />While he does not actually say so, Mr. Brennan more or less intimates that he is an expert epigrapher, and he has a detailed interpretationof very many texts. Again, his comments may be mainstream, I really don't know, but it's difficult to accept some of them at face value.<br />But then there is the major thesis of the book, which is that the figures in Maya art are using their hand gestures to tell us a great deal about what is actually taking place in the picture. And the fact is...well, they Maya do seem to be very busy with their hands in their art, making signs with their fingers. What's more, not infrequently the figures in the paintings are looking intently at each other's fingers. If nobody else in Maya studies is looking into this, somebody should be. While it's possible that Mr. Brennan may have some of the meaning of the signs wrong, it seems quite likely that his basic thesis is sound.<br />Which is my suggestion - read it for what it's worth, and draw your own conclusion. I certainly feel that I want to learn more about Indian sign language since I finished this book.	2001-10-18
US	50983162	RO0A798HBJ8PE	0140445587	891229623	The Koran (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	100	123	N	N	Not Bad, but there are Better	Dawood's translation was, I believe, the first one that I ever read.  As I am not a Muslim, I can't judge very well on matters of interpretation, but on a scale of 1 to 10 I'd say:<br />Accuracy - 5.  Given a choice, Dawood prefers clarity to accuracy.  Please understand that translating everything the Quran says, or even a small part of what it says, is impossible.<br />Poetic Sense - 8.  Dawood is really pretty good in letting some of lilt get through.<br />Depth - 3.  It's just not there.<br />I'd probably recommend him over Pickthall, even though Pickthall was a Muslim.  Pickthall was very aware of the sense behind what he was translating, and he tried to bring more of it through than could be done; he also has a bit too much baggage from the bible with him.  My favorite translation is Yusuf Ali, who is interested in being as clear and accurate as possible even at the expense of elegance.  If you want elegance too, learn Arabic and read the original.	2001-10-04
US	50983162	R2JUOIIT05247Q	1562614193	800319111	The DEL-People's Guide to Mexico, 25th Anniversary Edition: Wherever You Go There You Are! (People's Guide to Mexico, 11th ed)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Classic Classic	If you're going to Mexico, especially if you have even the slightest interest in Mexicans as human beings and not just a backdrop to your vacation  - a rare virtue in some North American circles - and you're planning on getting out of the usual gringo mainline, you simply must read this book.  There is no better book on Mexico available.  It's funny, it's informative, and best of all, it's simpatico.<br />It won't tell you about specific places in Mexico to visit, but it will tell you what you will need to know in order to function on the ground anywhere in Mexico - eating, drinking, camping, hotelling, what to look for when you buy things, dealing with the police, insuring your car - in general, how to be a minimally offensive gringo.  You'll thank yourself for reading it, and you'll thank Mr. Franz for writing it, after you get there.	2001-10-02
US	50983162	R2PCSO7GX95FIV	029276040X	641642407	Spoken Maya for Travelers and Students: An Audiocasette	Books	2	7	8	N	N	The Only Game in Town	If you are interested in learning Yucatec Maya, you really need to purchase Professor Bevington's book &quot;Spoken Maya for Travelers and Students.&quot;  If you also want to learn the pronunciation, then you really need this tape.<br />The reason for this is that this book and tape are the only thing in town, at least for the moment.  The book has its drawbacks as a grammar for Yucatec, although it is undoubtedly an interesting read (see my review under the book).  The tape is a bit of a disappointment - it is 30 minutes long, it runs through some pronunciation drills which do not seem to be related to any particular section in the book, and then runs through some standard phrases used in just one chapter of the book.  The audio is not very good.<br />After waiting several weeks to get the tape (it can be difficult to obtain - this was the second time I ordered it through Amazon), re-reading the book for the umpteenth time and even putting together my own sentence patterns to work with based on the book's examples, I can't escape the feeling that while like any academic Professor Bevington feels the need to share his knowledge with others, he does not want to make it too easy for just anybody to learn Yucatec.  Perhaps he wants to discourage fundamentalist missionaries from learning it - a sentiment which I can appreciate, but I don't see how it would be possible in the long run to avoid this eventuality.<br />If you're committed to learning Yucatec, there's no other good study material available to date, neither in Spanish nor in English.  Some of the available Spanish material can be useful as a supplement to this book and tape; the problem is, you'll have to go to Merida to find it.	2001-10-02
US	50983162	RSK0X2H26JUE6	0486213218	510470308	Chinese Characters: Their Origin, Etymology, History, Classification, and Signification: A Thorough Study from Chinese Documents	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Worth Having on your Bookshelf	Books published by Dover tend to have certain similarities:  they tend to be books that were considered primary reference sources in their (usually eccentric) field at one time, but are now outdated and while their contents are frequently interesting, possibly useful and occasionally enlightening, they should not be considered authoritative except in the sense that they reflect scholarly opinion of several generations past.<br />Fr. Wieger's book should be treated in this manner.  We have a great deal more resources regarding the evolution of the Chinese writing system at our disposal now than when he wrote a hundred years ago.  The book is interesting in that it reflects the accepted wisdom of Chinese scholars of the nineteenth century on the subject, and in this sense it resembles James Legge's translations of the Chinese classics - they're considered almost unreadable nowadays (as is Wieger) but Legge had the benefit of real mandarins of the old regime to consult with.  Fr. Wieger's book is a reflection of the sholarship that put together the Kang Xi dictionary, which despite its drawbacks in retrospect was a monumental work in its time.<br />If you're looking for a dictionary don't waste your time with Wieger - in this respect he was inaccurate even when he was new, and it's doubtful that preparing a dictionary was his major concern anyway.  If you're looking for a history of Chinese writing, you should look elsewhere for accuracy, but Wieger's comments are worth a read as well, for no other reason than that he goes into so much detail over every character, and provides us with the received wisdom on the derivation of so many of them.<br />Which is his major virtue; the level of detail he was willing to go to in the book is stultifying.  The book's other virtue is the sheer fact of its existence, which is one more tribute to the Jesuit fascination with China over four centuries.	2001-09-26
US	50983162	R2Q4OI41WUCQH9	4770016034	953677329	Kodansha's Romanized Japanese-English Dictionary (A Kodansha dictionary)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Thorough, Handy, Durable	I'd recommend this dictionary to any starting student in Japanese.  The entries are in Romaji, so looking up colloquialisms is no problem.  Plenty of illustrations of usage are included under each entry, and it's a rare occasion when I can't find what I'm looking for.<br />Of course, it's no subsitute for a kanji dictionary, but one of the burdens that students must bear in learning Japanese is that they will eventually need at least two Japanese-English dictionaries - one for looking up words they hear and another for kanji.  If you select this dictionary for the first category you won't go wrong.	2001-09-26
US	50983162	R3OU80JVRMQD4L	0486234673	813773537	Beginner's Dictionary of Chinese-Japanese Characters (Dover Language Guides)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Dinosaur, but Still Useful	There was a time, long ago, when our image of Japan was shaped by books by the likes of Lafcadio Hearn and Pierre Loti (look them up!).  That was also the time when Rose-Inness was considered indispensable for the study of Japanese, along with Naganuma's readers (remember them?)<br />Then came World War II.  Actually, Rose-Inness survived that war and was still a mainstay of Japanese studies into the 1960's.  There have been a lot of changes in the language since then, not to mention a lot of new vocabulary, but Rose-Inness is still useful in a lot of ways.  Like the list of kana variations which he gives, which can be useful in reading old literature.  Or the character variants, which can save you a great deal of head scratching.<br />I must admit that I never did understand Rose-Inness' attempt to classify kanji by the &quot;sectors&quot; of the written character, but that didn't hamper me in using the dictionary.  Of course, for serious work you need Nelson.  But Rose-Inness is a lot smaller and lighter than Nelson, and it's adequate for older literature.  There are, of course, various dictionaries on the market produced in Japan, but you may want to compare them with this one and decide what serves your needs best before deciding on what's right for you.  Rose-Inness certainly has the virtue of being inexpensive.	2001-09-26
US	50983162	R2TSH6GUE1YA0H	0804814406	965036980	Inoue's Smaller Japanese-English Dict	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Ancient History	I don't know why Tuttle persists in issuing this little dictionary. It is true that for a book of its size it contains a lot of entries. But the orthography is pre-World War II, and for the information of the uninitiated, a great deal changed after the war, from the number of characters used in the popular press to what is considered standard usage in furigana. Many of the usages in this dictionary are also aged, if not antiquated.<br />As a result I have found this book to be not very useful, and I'd recommend the student interested in a romaji based Japanese-English dictionary to look at the Kodansha line of dictionaries instead.	2001-09-26
US	50983162	R2DSLV3C04L4XO	0415047412	809926504	Colloquial Japanese (Colloquial Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pretty Complete, Nice and Compact	I was impressed by this book.  It manages to cover a pretty extensive bit of turf, and does it painlessly.  The choice of vocabulary was good (separate concentration on honorific expressions in every lesson), the orthography used was comprehensive enough to show the tonal variations without being too despairingly technical, and the dialogues seemed to me to provide enough material to get the beginner started without killing his or her interest.<br />The one drawback, not from my point of view but from the beginner's, was the almost total absence of information on the writing system - just some cursory information on kana.  Well, after all, the title of the book is &quot;Colloquial Japanese&quot;, isn't it?  I am a great believer in the theory that it's too much work to simultaneously start the beginner on writing and speaking Japanese, but I realize that many students would not agree with me.  In any case, I'd recommend this book, along with its tapes, to the beginner.	2001-09-26
US	50983162	R3FAAN0LQ0YAE5	0062501747	17446653	Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Nothing New	If you're a fan of things shamanistic you will no doubt find this book of some use, although there are no specific rituals included.  Personally, I am not a follower of the shaman's path, but even setting aside my personal preferences I don't feel that I found anything in this book that I hadn't read somewhere else before.  If you've read extensively on Celtic spirituality I imagine you'll feel the same way too.	2001-09-25
US	50983162	RP5RO22Y7V7XS	0940262509	974200738	Carmina Gadelica: Hymns & Incantations	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The One and Only	The number of books on Celtic spirituality in the past ten years is stultifying. The inane banalities poured out in most of these books is paralleled only by the repititiousness of most of their contents.<br />This book, however, is the real thing. These poems were collected in the last century by Alexander Carmichael in his work in the Scottish highlands. They truly display the sense of closeness to the earth, and closeness to God, in daily life that is the hallmark of Celtic spirituality, and as expected in a collection of poems from the poor and humble, there is not a speck of pretension in any of it. The book has been a minor classic in its own field ever since it was first published, and now it is finally getting the widespread recognition it deserves.<br />My only regret is that this version doesn't include the Gaelic versions that Carmichael collected alongside the English translation; I believe that the original edition included these. If you're burned out on the absurdities of Celtic spirituality which are served up by the truckload nowadays, this book will give you your faith back.	2001-09-25
US	50983162	R2CCQ6QH3K7M9I	0684818450	800838773	Popol Vuh: The Definitive Edition of The Mayan Book of The Dawn of Life and The Glories of Gods and Kings	Books	5	29	31	N	N	The Authority	It is difficult to imagine a better version of the &quot;Popol Vuh&quot; than this one.  It is literary, it is scholarly, and it is well written - by a man who knows his subject.  It provides incredible insight into the world of the ancient Maya and their modern descendents.<br />If you're interested in Maya studies and you haven't read this book yet, then you haven't even gotten started.  As time goes on it becomes more and more apparent that this book is our guide to understanding Maya iconography, and we are incredibly lucky to have a book like this available to us at all.  To have such a well-done translation is almost too much to ask.  Small wonder that other writers on the Maya simply cite this book as &quot;Tedlock&quot; - it's considered a foregone conclusion that you know which book is meant.<br />Now if only somebody could come up with a good English version of the &quot;Chilam Balam.&quot;  Are there any takers out there?	2001-09-24
US	50983162	R1KL5N6YNCPDG7	4770015534	4621620	Kodansha's Compact Kanji Guide: A New Character Dictionary for Students and Professionals (A Kodansha dictionary)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good All-Around Product	I have used this guide for some years now, and I find it to be the most useful Japanese dictionary that I have. While of course it cannot compete with Nelson on the number of entries, or kanji for that matter, it is a good deal smaller than Nelson and I can take it to work with me without problem. For business uses and the popular press in general I have rarely run across a word that I could not find in here.  And it's so durable!<br />Some may balk at the traditional radical order of the Kanji, but it's what I was used to, more or less, so I find it convenient. I'm not so sure why the publishers felt it necessary to put the stroke order in - shouldn't you already know that if you're past Japanese 001? I'd recommend deleting it in the interest of adding more entries, but that's my only complaint.	2001-09-24
US	50983162	RTX83A226ZONG	0893571075	749391483	An Introduction to Old Church Slavic	Books	3	27	32	N	N	Title Tells it	Note that the title of this book is &quot;Introduction to Old Church Slavic&quot;, not &quot;Old Church Slavonic.&quot;  It is an exercise in historical linguistics.  If that's your interest, it covers the subject in considerable depth and you'd be hard pressed to find another book written in English to do it so thoroughly.<br />However, if your interest is in reading Eastern Orthodox material, this book won't be much help, except in a very roundabout way.  Be advised.	2001-09-21
US	50983162	R968UACUVFR22	1570625328	210629653	Signs of the Unseen: The Discourses of Jalaluddin Rumi	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A Noble Effort	Professor Thackston has done admirably with this translation of &quot;Fihi ma fihi.&quot; Especially since, in my opinion, this is the hardest of Rumi's works to translate.<br />In his poetry, Rumi is sublime, and accordingly difficult to translate, but any translator can only do so much with a poem. If you miss some nuances, it's just the tradeoff that the translator of poetry must make. The &quot;Masnavi&quot;, on the other hand, is a lengthy work, but it has a coherence that makes the translator's life relatively easy and compels the reader on.<br />&quot;Fihi ma fihi&quot;, however, very often seems to ramble off in a thousand directions. Indeed, sometimes it's hard to escape the feeling that this book was Rumi's attic, all full of jumbled odds and ends, many of them beautiful, but not necessarily in any coherent order. In fact, however, a second reading can reveal that the book is a great deal more than that. If you have been under the impression that Rumi is a sort of Omar Khayyam for the New Age, this book can convince you that just possibly he belongs in company with Shakespeare, Goethe and Pushkin.<br />This translation is eminently readable and even prods the reader on. Professor Thackston has certainly succeeded in translating Rumi's infallible knack to make us look at the world through different eyes. The one sacrifice was Rumi's elegant rhetoric, which just can't be translated. For that you'll have to learn Farsi. In the meantime, this book is to be enjoyed.	2001-09-20
US	50983162	R37PRDQEYUVXD0	0500018707	301025413	The Tribal Arts of Africa	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Hooray!	Probably the best book currently available on African art.  Everything else of value is either out of print or in French.  Brilliant photographs, excellent text, authoritative background on the sources and location without a plethora of anthropological subtext, as so often happens in books on African art.  If the subject interests you, you'll find nothing better!	2001-09-17
US	50983162	R3AX7AKM80N9QE	1855647923	251680215	Reinsurance: the Definitive Industry Textbook	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Best Presentation of Reinsurance Theory	Professor Carter's presentation on the theory of reinsurance is nothing less than superb.  If you are interested in getting a firm grasp of the subject you cannot do better.<br />The only reason that I have not given the book five stars is that while the theory is covered in depth, the book's coverage of reinsurance markets and how they operate is a bit sketchy;  presumably it simply was not Professor Carter's intent to cover that.	2001-09-17
US	50983162	R3NSZL1DWA7B5E	0674305515	83052275	The Five Thousand Dictionary: A Chinese-English Pocket Dictionary and Index to the Character Cards of the College of Chinese Studies, California ... on the fifth Peking ed (Harvard Paperbacks)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	You can't lose	This little dictionary has been around since Chiang Kai-Shek was considered China's hope and most Americans got their impressions of China from &quot;Terry and the Pirates&quot; and Fu Manchu novels. The intriguing name comes from the rather prosaic fact that it includes five thousand characters. It uses an antiquated transliteration system (Wade-Giles), it doesn't have simplified characters (won't help in reading material published in the PRC) and there probably hasn't been a new entry added in fifty years.<br />So why would anybody want a copy? Because there are items in this book that you won't find anywhere else without a lot of digging, such as: the Chinese character names of all of the dynasties, along with their capital cities, the various sets of characters used for enumeration (I have never found these anywhere else), all Chinese surnames, including all of the two syllable surnames, a compilation of all of the characters used in the Chinese calendar with an explanation on how the calendar works, and a wealth of other goodies. It's a handy book!	2001-09-17
US	50983162	R2C4B1VN6ZNF9W	0863040675	153229375	Teachings of Rumi (The Masnavi): The Spiritual Couplets of Jalaludin Rumi	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Good Version of Rumi	For quite a few years, this was the most accessible version of Rumi's Masnavi available on the market. The language is dated, almost Victorian, which may put off some readers who are burned out on works in the style of Fitzgerald's &quot;Omar Khayyam.&quot; Also, it is an abridgement, and Whinfield will at times collapse large portions of the work into a half page.<br />On the whole, though, for the general reader the work doesn't suffer much from these two possible shortcomings. Rumi's unique, teasing genius comes through on almost every page, challenging the reader to look at everyday things from a different viewpoint. Whinfield's notes are sufficient without being intrusive.<br />I read this version several years ago, and as I find that Rumi is best appreciated in small portions, I still like to keep the book handy as bedside reading. Whatever your opinion on Rumi, whether skeptical or reverent, you will enjoy this book.	2001-09-14
US	50983162	R1IQDYPV4KTJ2U	093863514X	329871345	The Soul After Death	Books	4	50	56	N	N	An Antidote to New Age Speculation	It's difficult to place this book within the spectrum of books on life after death.  It's even diffcult to place it in the spectrum of religious books.  Basically it is a rebuttal of the usual New Age speculation on life after death - the &quot;Great Light&quot;, the happy fields, etc., etc.<br />Having said that, the author was not seeking to explain the life after death phenomenon in terms of mainstream Christianity.  Fr. Rose was a convert to Russian Orthodoxy, and his deep commitment to beliefs that many Christians (including some Orthodox) would consider obscurantist, if not downright medieval, may throw off some readers as much as the New Age speculations he seeks to refute.  He refers back to the ancient teaching about the &quot;toll houses&quot; that the soul encounters in the first forty days after death, and the spirits of the air that will attempt to ensnare and deceive the soul; in whatever sense that one understands all this, it is a difficult pill to swallow for the average American Christian of Protestant leanings.<br />Having said that, the teachings that Father Rose draws upon deserve a serious hearing, if for no other reason than that they date back to an extremely remote antiquity in the belief and practice of the Church.  The credentials of the original writers upon which he draws show sufficiently that the beliefs expressed are not just pagan holdovers from some obscure corner of the ancient Middle East, but rather were mainstream teaching at one time.<br />The book shows that there is a another venerable body of teaching on life after death within the Christian tradition that can be frightening, and should give pause to most believing folk.	2001-09-14
US	50983162	R6DCGZVCLFS03	0674123506	691608020	Chinese-English Dictionary (A Chinese-English Dictionary Compiled for the China Inland Mission)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Old can be Good	What, is this book still around?  This was required classroom material for anybody who studied Chinese prior to 1980.  Since then, other material has come out that sometimes has more characters (which is not an accurate indicator of total entries), frequently has newer coinages (but leaves older ones out), usually is smaller (admittedly, Matthews weighs a ton) but probably nothing that is all-around more useful than old Matthews.  If you are a serious student of Chinese you should acquire it.	2001-09-13
US	50983162	R2DKY2PWGVHIIL	0140146563	270035970	The Orthodox Church: New Edition	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Useful Start to Understanding the Subject	When Bishop Ware first wrote this book, which was around 1970, it was truly a useful introduction to the Orthodox Church for those who know nothing about the subject.  Since then, it suffers the sad fate of familiarity.  Most educated Orthodox that I have met have read it, including probably almost all Orthodox clergy that are literate in English, and it has been criticized considerably in some quarters since then, particularly the sections on Orthodox eschatology, the sacraments and ecumenism.  Sometimes these complaints are unfortunately and unfairly leveled based on the fact that Bishop Ware is an Anglican convert.<br />Given that Orthodoxy, by its nature, has no infallible living authority on what it teaches, there is going to be dispute over what is &quot;correct.&quot;  I believe that Bishop Ware wrote this book mainly to explain his faith to other Christians, and it should be appreciated on that basis; it was meant to be a starting point, not a definitive explanation of Orthodoxy.  It is a good place to start on the subject, rather than with the spate of books on Orthodox spirituality that have been in vogue in the last ten years or so.  If that's what you want, I highly recommend it.	2001-09-13
US	50983162	R2MYCMZT4N278H	4770018010	934925061	Kodansha's Pocket Kanji Guide (A Kodansha Dictionary)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A Disappointment	When I acquired this little book, I was hoping to have something that I could carry around in my briefcase and would help me with newspaper articles and such.  It doesn't; it has far too few entries.  It never fails to amaze me how there can exist Chinese-English dictionaries the same physical size as this one that contain ten times as many entries as this one does for Japanese.  Can't anybody make a good compact Japanese-English Kanji dictionary?	2001-09-13
US	50983162	R1N5C7U9ABZL8V	0844237027	617276049	Teach Yourself Swedish Complete Course	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Some Help, but not much	I really found this book difficult to use, leaving you with a small stock of colloquialisms but no knowledge of the actual structure of the language.  Why has the &quot;Teach Yourself&quot; series changed their format so much?  I have a copy of the &quot;old&quot; Teach Yourself Swedish as well, and while it's short on dialogues it certainly covers the entire grammar of the language, as well as giving a complete explanation of the pronunciation.<br />With the tapes, this book can guide you to some skill in pronunciation, but I suppose any book with tapes can do that.  Aside from that and some of the cultural notes I didn't get much from this book.  The material produced by the Swedes themselves is much better and written for literate adults, which doesn't seem to be the case here.	2001-09-06
US	50983162	R1VH3BNQ770J6Q	0881410128	630393761	A Manual of Eastern Orthodox Prayers	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Best Compilation of Orthodox Prayers	This little book includes most of the prayers that Orthodox laity would be apt to use in their daily life, along with the liturgy and preparation for confession.<br />Clergy of other denominations interested in Orthodox ritual will probably find this book of use as well, since it points out differences in Russian and Greek usage and also gives the most complete church calendar I have ever seen in English. Anglican readers will find a perhaps unpleasant surprise - Lancelot Andrewes' &quot;preces privatae&quot;, rather than being his own inventions, are in fact prayers from the Orthodox preparation for communion, as you will find if you compare them with the versions in this book.	2001-09-05
US	50983162	R2K7MLL53JMGM1	0571163939	534104235	Writings from the Philokalia: On Prayer of the Heart	Books	4	27	31	N	N	The Standard Source	If you have any interest in the Philokalia at all, you should start with this book.  It is not the entire text, by a long shot - the complete text of the Philokalia in English is still being produced, although I believe that most of it has been published.  This book deals with those portions of the Philokalia that discuss the Jesus Prayer.<br />If your interest is in the Prayer, this book belongs on your book shelf.  As it is also a representative sample, this book will also help you decide if you want to tackle the entire Philokalia.  The book was first published quite a few years ago, and it has been quoted in so many sources that if you're interested in the subject at all you will probably find that you have already read sizable portions of it.	2001-09-05
US	50983162	R3JNK34SMUL4Q5	0844237515	308428309	Arabic (Teach Yourself)	Books	2	23	28	N	N	A Start, but Inadequate	I am loath to recommend this book to anybody. It seems to fairly dance across the surface of what is in fact a very difficult subject. It certainly tends to make learning Arabic appear to be a lot easier than it really is.<br />Possibly this book will be a useful refresher for the student who already has some Arabic and needs to brush up painlessly. But for a beginner to start here would be a true deception. You certainly can't learn to speak Arabic from this book, but that's not the problem; you can't learn to speak Arabic from any other book that exclusively covers the literary language. The problem is that you can't really learn to read Arabic from it either, except maybe for the selections prepared for this book. If you're serious about learning literary Arabic on your own, start elsewhere, preferably with either Thackston, Cowan or Haywood and Nahmad.	2001-09-05
US	50983162	R2L1TB3B8FLG18	0892811706	875527415	Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources	Books	5	330	348	N	N	A Reflection of Islamic Tradition	It would seem that Muhammad is gradually succumbing to the same fate as Jesus, in that each generation feels an urgent need to reinterpret him in light of their own understanding.  Quite a few biographies of the prophet are already on the market, from such diverse writers as the military man John Glubb to the atheist Maxime Rodinson.<br />This one is different.  As the title indicates, it is a life of Muhammad based on the earliest sources.  The &quot;sources&quot; in question here are the sirat, or biographies of the prophet, which were written a couple of centuries after his death.  These original biographies were compiled based on the traditions handed down regarding what the prophet did, much the same as the hadith are a transmission of what the prophet said.  The contents of these biographies are canonical; their position in Islam is somewhat analogous to works of the fathers of the church in Christianity.<br />Which explains the air of piety about this book, which unfortunately may throw some readers off.  What this book achieves, and achieves greatly in my opinion, is a reflection of how the Muslim world traditionally thinks of Muhammad.  It does not attempt to break new ground or provide new interpretations of Muhammad's life and mission; rather it assists the Western reader in understanding the traditional interpretation of his life and mission.  I would recommend this book highly to anyone interested in understanding Islamic belief and the position that Muhammad occupies in traditional Islamic values; I have come across no other book in English that conveys it as well as this one does.	2001-09-04
US	50983162	R3DB1O38W56AUV	0192810901	937576372	The Tain: From the Irish Epic "Tain Bo Cuailnge"	Books	4	42	43	N	N	Finally, a Definitive Version of the Tale	The Tain is probably beyond dispute the most important piece of Old Irish literature, perhaps even of all literature in the Irish language.  It has waited a long time to have a really definitive English translation; previous versions are either paraphrases or are so bowdlerized as to be almost unreadable.  Kinsella is never turgid or sentimental in the nineteenth century sense, which is so true of many of the older reworkings of Irish literature.  <br />As one other reviewer noted, it used to be that if you wanted a good rendering of Old Irish you almost had to turn to German translations.  The tide is turning, and much good material is now available in English.  My only complaint about this version is that I would have liked to see more notes.  But then admittedly Mr. Kinsella was seeking to provide a version that was literary but not recondite.  If you're interested in Irish literature this book belongs in your library.	2001-08-31
US	50983162	R27ZPNTCU6BLM7	0140443975	548064761	Early Irish Myths and Sagas (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Shipshape Rendering of Old Irish Material	This anthology probably provides enough to satisfy the general reader regarding early Irish literature. The translations are well selected. Personally, I would have preferred a bit more commentary, but in general this book goes about as far as one can go in describing Old Irish literature without entering into the field of the specialist.	2001-08-30
US	50983162	R2G1KIRDM9J8HN	1570621802	531031962	The Shambhala Guide to Sufism	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Good of this Sort	It's probably easier to define what this book is NOT, rather than what it is. It is not a compendium of Sufic thought or Sufi lore, so if that's what you're looking for, look elsewhere. Fortunately, there are any number of other books that can satisfy your curiosity in these areas.<BR>What this book tries to do is perhaps more difficult - sort out the various Sufi organizations worldwide and provide some intelligent guidance on their affiliations, origins and characteristic beliefs. Some may balk at the suggestion of approaching Sufism in this way; however, anybody who has spent some time in the Middle East can confirm that on a day-to-day level the Sufic brotherhoods often act as nothing more esoteric than any other faith-based fraternal organization you may find in the West, and most of their members are far from being spiritual masters.<BR>On this basis the book purports to help the would-be spiritual seeker get his bearings. I would say there is a need for such a book, and anyone interested in Islamic spirituality as it is currently practiced would probably gain much from this guide.	2001-08-29
US	50983162	R2LDBTNKMDM1BM	0691019193	948137453	Hallaj: Mystic and Martyr [ABRIDGED]	Books	3	21	21	N	N	More Intersting for the Orientalist than the Mystic	There are two audiences that this book might possibly interest. One is the student of medieval Islam, for whom this book is certainly worth a read. There is a great deal in here regarding the development of Islamic thought during the Abbasid period, and the central role that Al-Hallaj played as a focal point in that period. This was a time when much of Islamic theology was just starting to be articulated, the mihna was in operation and the great Islamic scholastics had not yet appeared. It was also a time before most of the major Sufic schools that we know today came into existence, and Al-Hallaj's legacy was to be central to a great deal of later Sufic material. However, it is not a book for the beginning student in this era, and if you are one, you are better off starting with a more general history of the thought of the era before tackling this book. This may be due to the fact that it is an abridgement of Massignon's original opus, and perhaps a lot of his supplementary explanation has been deleted. The Islamic sections of the Cambridge Medieval History wouldn't be a bad place to start. The other audience that would be interested in this book are those interested in the spiritual content of Al-Hallaj's teachings, and while Al-Hallaj is a central figure in the Sufi traditions and Massignon was certainly in sympathy with those traditions, I feel that if this is your interest you will have to work through a great deal of detail that will be extraneous to your interest. In short, it's a book for the serious student of the man and the era, and if that's what you are, go for it.	2001-08-27
US	50983162	R1QT1KD2VQM8SD	0823216632	325843020	Greek: An Intensive Course, 2nd Revised Edition	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Relatively Painless!	Let's face it - there is no such thing as an easy way to learn Classical Greek. One of the fascinations of the language is that it is so different from our own, both in time and space. But that fact alone makes it difficult. This book is the nearest thing I've found to date to making Greek almost easy to learn. It relies very heavily on substitution drills to work through the material. This sounds a bit strange in learning a dead language, but I found that this method gave me a better appreciation of the deeper structure of the language. I also found it easier to pinpoint the areas in the language that gave me the most difficulty, which made these areas easier to review. I'm not throwing away my Crosby and Shaffer or my Godwin and Gulick yet, but to the intelligent beginner I can't suggest a better place to start than with this book. It's not for the fainthearted, but then anybody who wants to tackle Classical Greek should realize they're in for a great experience, but an exhausting one.	2001-08-27
US	50983162	RFNX8ZFS9UZND	0844200441	665639186	Brazilian Portuguese: A Complete Course for Beginners (Teach Yourself; Book only)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	You can really learn Brazilian with this book	I only recently came across this book. As a long-time aficionado of things Brazilian, I picked it up to see how good it was. I really feel that if I had this book to learn Portuguese when I first learned it, I would have learned it faster and more easily. The dialogues provide a wealth of information that is useful on the street. I recommend that you use the tapes; most people taking up Portuguese think is sounds something like Spanish, but Brazilian Portuguese definitely does not sound at all like Spanish, and in fact it has its own lilting rhythm which is part of the fun of learning this language, but you can't learn even a satisfactory imitation from a book alone. A great place to start.	2001-08-24
US	50983162	R1Y3M65MAY7L5X	0486232786	557287481	Introduction to Portuguese Grammar (Dover Language Guides)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Complete Explanation of the Grammar	This is not a bad little book - don't be deceived by its thin size. It covers Portuguese grammar completely, including those thorny items that Spanish students have trouble with when taking on Portuguese, like the personal infinitive, the pluperfect and the future subjunctive. It even covers the proper rules for accents in the orthography, and I have rarely seen that even attempted in any work designed for English speakers. What it doesn't provide you with is a lot of illustrative usages and examples, so as a stand-alone course it has its limitations. As one other reviewer says, use it in conjunction with other conversational materials, and you should be fine.	2001-08-24
US	50983162	R35K1SS1LXHUW4	0873522885	369344379	An Introduction to Old Irish (Introductions to Older Languages)	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Good Introduction to an Abstruse Subject	For the interested, there are a variety of source materials for the study of Old Irish. The problem with most of them is that they're hard to come by, unless you know where to look. The best sources are the Irish Texts Society based in London, the Royal Irish Academy (yes, that's correct) and the Center for Advanced Studies, both of which are in Dublin. Most of their publications are inexpensive and good, but it's hard to get their books here in the States.<br />So you could invest in a trip to Dublin. Or you can start with this book. Please don't assume that this is an exhaustive grammar of Old Irish; it's not - it's a book for beginners. While the Professors Lehmann do not skimp on the basic information, the book moves along at a reasonable pace. The book is straightforward, and is aimed at two audiences. One of these audiences will be students of Historical Linguistics, who will find much of interest here, what with descriptions of consonantal shifts, where Old Irish fits into the Indo-European paradigm, and analyses of VSO versus SVO languages. The other audience would be students of ancient Irish literature, who will find enough to start them feeling their way through the early material, as the bulk of the book is a minute analysis of the grammar and vocabulary of one not extremely long Old Irish tale (Mac da Dho's Pig).<br />The only problem with this book is that these two audiences are usually not interested in the same things, so be advised. If you fall into a potential third audience - seeking after information on ancient Irish society or folklore - you'll be better off reading somebody like John Matthews, as this book is first and foremost a piece of linguistic scholarship.	2001-08-24
US	50983162	R3BTQ48QXL8S4C	0140080988	944757660	The Memory Palace of Matteo Ricci	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A Fascinating Read on a Fascinating Subject	One of the major fascinations of China as a field of academic endeavor is that China is an ancient, highly developed, extremely complex society that came into existence with virtually no significant contact with Western society until the last two centuries.  With a nod to Marco Polo and the Silk Route, it's probably fair to say that if Chinese culture had developed on another planet, it couldn't have been more distinct from Western culture than it is.  What's more, while one could say the same thing about, say, the Maya, in fact we really know very little about the Maya, and all the strides being made in deciphering their writing will not increase the amount of raw material we have to work with.  By comparison, we have a tremendous amount of information about traditional China, due to the Chinese interest in their own society and its history.  As a result, all Western students of China are attracted attracted at least to some extent to the potential of holding up China as a mirror of our own world.  For some, it is the major attraction in the study of China.<br />It is this attraction that Spence specifically seeks to satisfy in all of his books.  In &quot;Matteo Ricci&quot; he addresses one of the earliest significant cultural contacts between China and the West - the Jesuit contacts in the sixteenth century, and specifically Ricci's achievement as a conduit of Western thought to the Chinese educated classes.  In choosing the &quot;memory palace&quot; as the point of departure - Ricci's practice of teaching the ability to remember more material, and a system as old as Ancient Rome - the subject moves on to the learning process, and the purpose of learning, as understood in China vs. the West.<br />Ricci's own career as a Catholic priest who obtained the complete classical education of a Chinese mandarin and went on to be an influence at the Ming court is a story worth telling in and of itself, and provides the background to a story of great depth regarding the similarities - and differences - between China and the West.  A fascinating read on a fascinating subject.	2001-08-23
US	50983162	R2395S3GJU2NO6	0140444343	672800533	The Conference of the Birds (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	63	69	N	N	Excellent Translation, worth the read	Mr. Davis' translation of Attar's masterpiece is indeed very good and as it has the cachet of appearing in the Penguin series I hope that it will lead more Westerners to take Middle Eastern, particularly Persian, language and culture more seriously.  While Islamic spirituality has been in vogue in some circles over the last couple of decades (witness the popularity of Rumi), its audience unfortunately tends to consist of seekers of exotic spirituality rather than people who are willing to put in the spade work to understand the cultural context in which this spirituality came into existence.<br />No doubt there was a time when I would have been in spiritual raptures over this book.  At my age, however (I'll be 51 next month) I am less inclined to expect much direct spiritual benefit from a book, but I like to think that I can appreciate a good piece of literature when I read it.  Attar is indeed good literature, and Mr. Davis' translation is simple and balanced, with a feeling of intimacy that mirrors Attar's style.  It is never overworked or sentimental - if you're expecting Fitzgerald's Khayyam you'll be disappointed.<br />As for the Sufic interpretations of the content (how profound!  how obscure!) I must admit that the more I read of such things the less I understand them.  On first reading at least, I suggest to the reader to let the book stand on its own merits as literature, and only afterwards seek any hidden meaning.	2001-08-23
US	50983162	R1BK9ZWH044M29	0393309940	499787306	Chinese Roundabout: Essays in History and Culture	Books	3	2	15	N	N	Okay for Spence fans	Typical Jonanthan Spence fare, if that's your pleasure.  If you're a fan of his (and I happen to think he's very good) or you're interested in the broader perspectives of Chinese-Western culture exchanges over the centuries, then you'll enjoy it.  Otherwise you'll probably find it either abstruse or boring.  Suit yourself.	2001-08-15
US	50983162	R1JW9P8PX7D5TD	0804816476	562271015	A Japanese Reader: Graded Lessons for Mastering the Written Language (Tuttle Language Library)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Heavy Duty Reader for the Committed	This is an excellent primer on written Japanese, but it is not for the fainthearted!  It is true that it is a bit dated (a lot of stuff from the fifties included) but it covers the field of written Japanese extensively in an extremely small amount of space.  If (like me) you took up Japanese after you had already learned to read Chinese, you'll probably find this book a useful way to jump into reading while avoiding going through the basics of the writing system all over again.<br />The book also covers a lot of details on the writing system (proper names, furigana principals, pre-1945 standard usage) that you can spend a lot of time looking for in other books, often to no avail.  If you're really serious about getting into reading Japanese, it's a good book to work with, but be warned - it moves along at a vicious pace.	2001-08-15
US	50983162	R2QOTG59K8KWOL	0425160130	721758677	The Oxford Russian Dictionary: Russian-English - English-Russian (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Excellent Reference	I never thought that I would give up using Smirnitsky's Russian-English or Mueller's English-Russian dictionaries; I relied on them for so long.  But any more I find myself automatically reaching for my new Oxford when I need to look up a word!  My wife does too, when she's looking for the right word in English.  I recommend it highly if you regularly need a good Russian dictionary.	2001-08-15
US	50983162	R1M64PWAPIOBMJ	0793135575	374107655	Diccionario bilinge de seguros	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Useful but Limited	I work as a consumer advocate for the Department of Insurance in Florida, and my office has to deal with a large number of complaints and requests for assistance from the Hispanic community in this state. While I found this book very useful in some ways, there were some drawbacks, at least from my point of view.<br />For one thing, it is not a general dictionary of insurance terms; it would be better described as a general dictionary of life & health insurance terms.  While there are some terms from property, casualty and marine insurance in the book the overwhelming preponderance of the entries deal with life and health insurance, and fairly basic terms on P&C issues and particularly on P&C claims handling were missing.<br />Secondly, many of the terms included seem to be almost literal translations of the English. Sometimes this is necessary because there is no Spanish term (e.g., MEWA's), but this only brings to the fore the fact that insurance procedures, and the resulting terminology, vary considerably from one country to another.<br />In connection with this, it appears that the Spanish terms included in the book are based primarily on Mexican usage, and the user should be aware that the terminology may be quite different for the same thing in other countries. There are a considerable number of terms that are rather common in the Hispanic world which I did not find in the book, such as \\"franquicia\\", \\"caduco\\", \\"rescate\\", etc.<br />Having said all that, the book does fill a gap between the standard business dictionaries, which often appear to not even know what a word means in English, much less being able to define it in Spanish, and more specialized books which will bowl you over with detail. You can use it effectively in the office and on the street, and agents involved with the Hispanic community will probably find it useful.	2001-07-31
US	50983162	R2R090D1UMIU7J	0940368323	525151542	The Qur'an: Text, Translation & Commentary (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	185	192	N	N	Excellent Work - Maybe the Best Translation	Out of the several English translations of the Quran which I own, I most definitely consider this one to be the best one available on the market.  It is also the best bilingual one that I have encountered.  The translation is faithful, and never prone to flights of fancy.  Students of Arabic can rely on being able to follow the English translation as being virtually literal, while still being literary; whatever confusion regarding meaning that there may be is virtually always explained clearly in the copious notes.<br />I am gratified to learn that this translation is highly thought of in the Muslim world, although I'm not surprised.  The other great feature of the book is the commentary.  It was obviously written with the Western, specifically Christian reader in mind, and while you may not agree with everything Yusuf Ali has to say (personally, I'm not so sure that Protestant Christianity is the Christian group closest in spirit to Islam!) you will certainly feel that his opinions are well-founded.  In fact, one might consider this book as a great primer on the beliefs of Islam for the non-Muslim, and not just another translation.	2001-07-31
US	50983162	R1Y0WAEONQJXXF	0844279595	354992720	NTC's Dictionary of Mexican Cultural Code Words : The Complete Guide to Key Words That Express How the Mexicans Think, Communicate, and Behave	Books	1	15	22	N	N	Silly and Biased	I recently purchased this book with the idea that it would hopefully provide an introduction to aspects of Mexican culture.  Unfortunately, it seems to me to be a re-hash of usual stereotypes about Mexico and Mexicans, perhaps written from a more high-brow level than usual, but no more illuminating for all that.<br />It is true that writing about another culture in an attempt to &quot;explain&quot; it is perennially popular as well as politically suspect in some circles.  Personally, I do believe that it is possible to write a book about another culture that can be illuminating, but this book probably says more about gringos and their lack of perspective than it does about Mexico.  If you must read a book about Mexico written by a norteamericano, try Carl Franz' &quot;People's Guide to Mexico.&quot;  When you get past the hippie falderal it is an extremely good book and the only one that ever taught me anything about Mexico that I found useful on the ground there.	2001-07-24
US	50983162	R2ZT6FMKY70V1S	1572160330	682483468	Gosta Berling's Saga	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Sorry to say so, but...	I was disappointed by &quot;Gosta Berling.&quot;  I have been a fan of Selma Lagerlof ever since I picked up an old, battered copy of the &quot;Ring of the Lowenskjolds&quot; ten years ago at a used book sale.  For quite a few years, she was out of print and very difficult to find.  I picked up a used copy of &quot;Nils Holgersson&quot; - a Portuguese translation, of all things - about six years ago and I enjoyed it thoroughly as well.  But all along, I wanted a copy of the Holy Grail of Lagerlof books, &quot;Gosta Berling.&quot;  As soon as I noticed this reprint series available through Amazon two years ago I ordered a copy.<br />I'm sorry to say that I really think that the &quot;Ring&quot; and &quot;Nils&quot; are much better books.  I suppose that this is heresy for a Lagerlof lover to say, but when I read &quot;Berling&quot; I felt that I was reading the same story over and over again every thirty pages or so.  Particularly the women in the story all seemed the same - all of them young, lovely, graceful, all of them wronged (usually by Gosta), and only distiguishable by whether they were blondes or brunettes.  I had trouble telling them apart, a problem that I did not have with the &quot;Ring.&quot;  It seems a strange comment to have to make about a book written by a woman.<br />So why four stars?  Well, after all, even bad Selma Lagerlof is a whole lot better than the best of most other writers.  Just let me add in conclusion that if you like &quot;Berling&quot;, you really should read &quot;Ring of the Lowenskjolds&quot; too.	2001-07-20
US	50983162	R2TVRST2VJ3GUL	0582623588	54962298	Simplified Swahili (Longman Language Text)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	None Better	I arrived in Nairobi in 1981 for a two year stint with a multinational.  When I voiced a desire to learn Swahili, my boss' wife recommended this book.<br />In one month I was speaking Swahili well enough to deal with any situation that could possibly arise.  This would not have been possible without this book.  Other sources, such as &quot;Teach Yourself Swahili&quot; aren't anywhere near as good.  This book was originally written for the settler, missionary or expatriate who came out mainly from the UK, had to learn Swahili fairly well and fairly fast in order to cope in the area, and didn't have the time, money or inclination to sit in a classroom or hire a tutor.  As such it is not written for the academic, traveler or dilettante, but is still designed to be thorough and move along at a reasonable pace.  On completion of this book you will be able to deal with street situations, read the local newspaper and understand the radio, and yet also have a sufficient grasp of the structure of the language to move into more esoteric things, such as medieval Swahili poetry.<br />The copy I have was printed in Kenya, and I don't know whether or not it is being printed anywhere else.  Anybody interested in learning Swahili should try to get a hold of this book, and I hope that Amazon will manage to track down a source, if possible.  My copy's not for sale!	2001-07-12
US	50983162	R1V0CSLP3RXX5L	0804818622	81487554	Essential Japanese: An Introduction to the Standard Colloquial Language (Tuttle Language Library)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	One of the Best Self-Teachers Available	I concur with the other users of this site in my opinion of this book.  You really can learn colloquial Japanese from this book.  It is a bit dated - it was, I believe, originally written for American GI's and missionaries who found themselves in Japan after World War II and needed a good self teaching book which could be used on the ground, preferably with a native speaker to go through the material with you or at least to provide pointers on pronunciation.  However, this doesn't mean that what you're learning is too basic.  Virtually every feature of the spoken language is at least touched on, and best of all, there are a lot of illustrative sentences for every item covered.  The whole book is split into only ten lessons, and each lesson seems to last forever, but when you actually start working with the book it is much easier than it initially appears.<br />There is another book by Martin out that includes copies of the dialogues from this book in written Japanese, if you really feel a need for that.  While of course it is a nice idea to be able to work with the writing system immediately when learning a new language, with Japanese I don't really really believe that this is a good idea.  All told, Japanese is probably the most difficult language in the world to learn to read and write correctly, more so than Chinese, so I would suggest to the would-be learner that she work with this book for a while and then start on the written language with other learning materials.	2001-07-10
US	50983162	R3GTOVY4P1DXAE	0835113868	120835332	Situational Chinese	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Best Book I've Found on Colloquial Chinese	It is a real shame that this book is getting hard to find. After over thirty years as a student of Chinese I have not found a better book for the colloquial language.  The book purports to be a beginning primer, and it's true that it covers the grammar (although admittedly this is done better in other books), but the book's real glory is its dialogues, which are neither too basic or recondite, but full of the kind of colloquialisms that occur every day in speaking but are so hard to pinpoint when you're learning a foreign language.  Even advanced students will find material to review and learn in this book.<br />Hopefully, Amazon will be able to stock this item again.  Maybe (Buddha forbid!) it's permanently out of print.  If you run across a copy in the Chinese bookstores in San Francisco or New York (I found mine in New York's Chinatown), then buy it immediately without wasting time on further deliberation.  The book is a gem.	2001-07-03
US	50983162	R1E4K72WRMGLH7	0300020589	182819869	Beginning Chinese, 2nd Revised Edition (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	3	21	27	N	N	Best Known for its Availability	When I studied Chinese back in the 1970's this was the beginning text we used.  I was not extremely satisfied with it then, and I am even less satisfied today.  Arguably, it covers the subject of Chinese grammar in considerable detail, but my overall impression of the material presented is that it simply isn't the &quot;way that Chinese really speak&quot; - that is, it really doesn't reflect colloquial Chinese as it is actually spoken, even taking into account that it is supposed to be Taiwan Chinese.  It is as if there is too much interference from English grammar in the way it is presented. <br />I am even less satisfied with it nowadays, with the large amount of language study material now available from China.  While some of the material printed in China can be a bore, some of it is really extremely good - Beverly Hong's &quot;Situational Chinese&quot; springs to mind as perhaps the best book on colloquial Chinese I have yet found.  I'd suggest to the would-be learner to review the material available from Beijing before investing any of the books in the old Yale Asian series.	2001-07-03
US	50983162	RQXC82H5WDIKR	085331585X	740084260	A New Arabic Grammar of the Written Language	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Excellent as both a learning text and a reference work	I picked up a copy of this book in 1978 when I was in the Middle East.  I taught myself Arabic from this book and T.F. Mitchell's &quot;Writing Arabic.&quot;  I've worked with and reviewed many other books for learning Arabic since then, and I still feel that this is the best concise one-volume introduction to the subject you'll find.  It is true that there are no tapes available for it(at least not as far as I know) and some would consider this a serious drawback.  There is, however, a key to the exercises published separately.  I cannot recommend it too highly.  Even if you are using other books to learn Arabic, this one is worth having for reference purposes.	2001-07-02
US	50983162	R2052EJN6ENL5L	0844238155	626833999	Modern Persian: Complete Course (Teach Yourself Books)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Painless and Fun	I noted with interest that the reviews on this book range from high praise to scorching condemnation. I am one of the fans of this little book. I first encountered it in a bookshop in Karachi just a couple of weeks before I was scheduled to visit Iran as part of an official US Navy visit in 1978. Much to my pleasant surprise I was able to actually speak some of the language on the ground when I got there, sufficiently well so that I could go around town without dismay.<br />The Teach Yourself series has revised most of their original books in the last twenty years, but like a lot of older readers with some linguistic background I must admit to a preference for at least some of the older editions (although not the old Arabic one, which was a masterpiece of obscurity - truly breathtaking). The &quot;old&quot; Teach Yourself Spanish, for example, is still the best one-volume explanation of Spanish grammar I have ever found in English. Like at least one of the reviewers, I think the older books do a better job of providing a grasp of the structure, after which the student can move on to the commoner colloquialisms. While admittedly this book has a number of mistakes, it manages to make the process of learning basic Persian painless and fun. I think the learner would be well served by working through this book first, and then moving on to a more ambitious text. Starting with Lambton can be stultifying, and I found Thackston dry and incapable of keeping my interest, although I own both of these books and consider them to be excellent references.<br />One word about the writing lessons, though. Useful as they are, they present features peculiar to Persian. While this is certainly not surprising, the point is that Iranians and Arabs do not write the same way - in fact, their handwritten script is quite different, and one should not assume that working through the lessons on the alphabet in this book would necessarily equip one to write Arabic.	2001-06-25
US	50983162	R3201AMI7F2G8N	091332115X	871005879	A Manual of Hadith (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	4	31	34	N	N	A Good All-around Sampling of Hadith for the Student	Unlike the other reviewers of this book at this site, I am not a Muslim, and while I would like to think that I have some appreciation of sectarian differences in Islam I cannot say that I understand the nature of the polemic cited in the other reviews. The book is a fine, shipshape collection of hadith with Arabic text and English translation, arranged in an intelligent order; it is hardbound as well, so it is an excellent value to anyone starting out the study of hadith. My interest in the book was as a student of Arabic. As any literate Arab would be familiar with at least the more common hadith, most students of Arabic would be happy to have a reference on the subject which is informative and intelligent without being overly exhaustive, which is exactly what this book is.	2001-06-11
US	50983162	RD8FM2DUT15G7	0521272955	988474756	001: Elementary Modern Standard Arabic: Volume 1, Pronunciation and Writing; Lessons 1-30 (Elementary Modern Standard Arabic, Lessons 1-30)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Good College Text	Abboud's book is as good a place to start as any in learing literary Arabic.  I did not use it as a starter - I used Heywood and Nahmad - but Abboud's book goes into a lot more detail, and provides a great deal more drill material.<br />Which is the only negative I can say about it - DON'T try to teach yourself from it.  You'll get lost.  Intermediate to advanced students can bravely strike out on their own with the other books in this series, which I believe was originally put out by the University of Michigan. But this book is best off undertaken as a college text for a course.	2001-06-11
US	50983162	R1WB4ZSU94YABY	0879500034	718289288	Arabic-English Dictionary: The Hans Wehr Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Indispensable	There is only one thing to say about this dictionary.  If you're a serious student of Arabic, there is simply no substitute for it. Period.	2001-02-24
US	50983162	R2C7GKGVQ3P1UQ	1585670642	672946857	Night and Horses and the Desert: An Anthology of Classical Arabic Literature	Books	4	68	72	N	N	A Serious Effort, Worth the Read	In what may be his most ambitious non-fiction work to date, Mr. Irwin has tackled a truly daunting task - an anthology of Arabic literature.  I give him four stars.  The fourth star is for attempting the effort in the first place.<br />Theoretically, there is no reason why it should be any more difficult to prepare an anthology of Arabic literature than it would be for, say, Chinese literature; rather the contrary. However, I suspect that preparing an Arabic anthology is much harder.  First of all, the traditional themes of Arabic literature - religion, romantic lament, fate, panegyric - on the whole have little appeal for Westerners, especially compared to a literature like the Chinese, which seems so secular and &quot;modern&quot; in theme by comparison.  Secondly, most truly great Arabic literature is poetry, which is notoriously difficult to translate, and what's worse, the canons of poetic taste that govern it are almost entirely untranslatable into anything comparable in English.<br />Despite these handicaps, Irwin has done an admirable job.  One notices that there is a great deal of commentary.  The selections tend to be short, with a great deal of explanation in between.  There is so much commentary, in fact, that the book sometimes seems more a literary history than an anthology.  However, this approach is necessary if the reader is to develop any appreciation at all of the material.  Quite frankly, Arabic literature is a closed book to most readers, even in translation, and without a large amount of explanatory material the average reader would be lost.<br />Irwin also resists the impulse, very common in specialists in a given literary area, of putting in a large number of his own translations.  He does an excellent job of selecting the translations, in fact - a difficult task in itself, because there is an incredibly large number of bad translations from Arabic; for many translators, the attempt to be faithful to the Arabic models simply results in English doggerel.  You will find no examples of this type in the book.<br />If there is little to be said about the period after roughly 1300, there is a good reason for this:  most of the truly great literature produced in the Middle East after that time was written in Farsi, and to a lesser degree in Turkish, both of which are not part of the subject matter for this book.  In doing so, Mr. Irwin perhaps handicaps himself, but his intent is obviously to focus on Arabic literature. Outside of specialists, very little Arabic literature is known, whereas a great deal of Persian literature is readily available.<br />Certainly, it will be a long time before the names of Abu Nuwas or Mutanabbi are houshold words. Before that can happen, however, there must be an appreciation of the literary environment that formed Clasical Arabic literature.  Mr. Irwin's book is admirable in its attempt to convey that environment.  To the reader sincerely interested in deepening his knowledge of Arabic civilization, it will be rewarding.  To the reader whose goal is not that lofty, the book admittedly may be a bit of a chore to get through, but that does not impugn the effort.	2001-01-13
US	50983162	R1FX2V3EENBUC5	0941532054	311746318	Christianity/Islam: Essays on Esoteric Ecumenicism (The Library of Traditional Wisdom)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Good Introduction to Schuon's Work and Thought	Frithjof Schuon was perhaps the most prominent metaphysician of the twentieth century.  He wrote extensively on the inner significance of religion, and religions, from Christianity to Lakota spirituality, but it is probably fair to say that he had more to say about Islam than any other system of belief.  This book is a collection of essays, grouped into three sections - &quot;Christianity&quot;, &quot;Intermediary Problems&quot;, and &quot;Islam&quot;.<br />In a sense the most interesting ones are the ones on Christianity, since Schuon seldom deals with the Christian perspective on its own, without relevance to other religions.  The essays there deal with various things, such as the use of liturgical languages, Francis of Assisi, and the Evangelical (i.e., Lutheran) tradition.<br />The essays on Islam are a bit more obscure to the general reader, and require some familiarity with early Islamic history and the divergences between Sunni and Shiite doctrine.  Indeed, the essay entitled &quot;The Problems of Scholasticism&quot; - Islamic Scholasticism, that is - is abstruse indeed and requires a level of familiarity with Islamic theology that borders on the specialist.  The Islamic essays also tend to be more broad brush in topic than the ones on Christianity, but nonetheless they are rewarding reading for a better understanding of Islam and its demands on the believer.  The &quot;Intermediary Problems&quot; are attempts to correlate Christian and Islamic thought, and consequently raise issues that are very close to Schuon's heart; he is certainly at his best in this section.<br />Note that the book is a collection of essays, and at best the relationship between them is thematic.  Bearing this in mind, if you find Schuon's writings rewarding in general you will be happy with this book.	2000-10-13
US	50983162	RSCVPVXD8UBI1	0393973514	827530852	The Search for Modern China, 2nd Edition	Books	4	145	150	N	N	A Revised Look at Modern China	This book, now in its second edition, has been quite successful and has in  one sense managed to fill a perceived need among literate westerners,  particulaarly Americans, to know something about modern Chinese  history.<br />However, few people appreciate what a ground-breaking book this  was, at least in its first edition.  That it was a popular history of China  (&quot;popular&quot; in the sense that it was not primarily designed to be  a college text) was not unique; reasonably well-researched surveys of  Chinese history have been around since the nineteenth century.  But for  those of us who sat through an undergraduate course on Chinese history  prior to 1980, Spence's approach was refreshingly un-Eurocentered.<br />Once  upon a time, Chinese history was presented in two neat halves: the first  half was &quot;traditional&quot; China from prehistoric times to the Opium  Wars (1840's).  The second half was everything else going forward.  The  overall impression was that everything changed when the white man appeared  - which is, of course, a misperception, to put it mildly.  Spence conceives  of &quot;modern&quot; Chinese history as beginning with the Ming Dynasty,  and treated the Western intervention as just one theme among many.<br />Thus,  Spence was able to present a new view of China to a new generation, and it  was a viewpoint that explains a great deal more than previous ones did.   That he does it in such a compelling way, opening new vistas up to us in  the process, is what makes this a great book.  A great deal of thought and  sensitivity has gone into this work, and it deserves to be appreciated for  that.	2000-08-30
US	50983162	RVNLN7BA5X6JO	0941532240	407404949	Understanding Islam	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Possibly the best introduction to Islam by a Westerner	Schuon first published &quot;Understanding Islam&quot; almost forty years  ago.  Since that time the author has been praised as one of the best  metaphysical writers of the century as well as excorciated as one more  structuralist with a religious bent and a peculiar fixation with Islam,  which he shared with several other French thinkers (Schuon was Swiss but  was schooled in France).  In general, you'll have to make up your own mind  about the man and his work, but in any case it can certainly be said that  &quot;Understanding Islam&quot; is one of the most practical books that  Schuon wrote.<br />&quot;Practical&quot; in the sense that it is not solely an  exercise in metaphysics but rather an apologia for Islam, written by a man  who understood and appreciated its inner life better than most.  Schuon  states himself in his foreword to the book that this was not a description  of Islam as much as an explanation of why Muslims believe in it.<br />If you  are looking for a description of Islam, either from a social or historical  standpoint, you are better off not starting with Schuon; there are any  number of excellent books on the subject that can help you in that regard.  But I know of no other western writer who can teach you more about the  content of Islam than Schuon does, unless it is Professor Schimmel herself,  and she wrote the introduction to this edition.  Schuon starts by comparing  the religious perspective of Islam with Christianity, and then proceeds to  describe what function the Koran, the Prophet Muhammad and the mystical  paths of Islam play in the interior life of Muslims.<br />The book itself is  deceptively short.  In fact, it is a very difficult read.  Not  infrequently, you will find it necessary to re-read paragraphs or even  several pages in order to follow Schuon's train of thought.  Repeated  readings will probably be found profitable.  Readers unfamiliar with  metaphysics as an intellectual discipline will find the going even harder,and Schuon is not above drawing on medieval Christian thinking as well as  Hinduism and Buddhism for analogies.  Some readers may find his digressions  and page-long footnotes distracting, but he is never really far from the  point he is trying to make.<br />Interestingly enough, within the Muslim  community there is some disparity in how the book is viewed.  Some Muslim  divines consider the book a valuable contribution to the understanding of  their faith by Westerners.  Others, frequently Western converts, seem to  feel that Schuon's book,with its constant comparisons to other religions in  general and Christianity in particular, is demeaning to Islam.  Whether or  not this is so, the book will certainly give you a lot to think about, and  I recommend it to any serious student of Islam.	2000-08-20
US	50983162	R2LKFW68KWEPXK	0394708466	954684395	The Icon and the Axe: An Interpretative History of Russian Culture (Vintage)	Books	4	67	71	N	N	A Treat for any Russophile	The subtitle of this book, &quot;an interpretive history of Russian  culture&quot;, accurately warns the reader about what he is going to  encounter.  It is not a Russian history book, and in fact you may want to  keep an outline history of Russia handy to get names and dates straight.   It is also rather different from the usual run of &quot;cultural  histories&quot;, whether topical, like A.L. Basham's admirable book,  &quot;The Wonder that was India&quot; or Elizabeth Massey's bedside book on  Russian culture, &quot;Land of the Firebird.&quot;  Billington has written  an interpretive history.  While staying within a chronological framework,  he talks at length about various topics that he finds illuminating, even if  they are out of the mainstream curriculum on Russian history, art or  literature.<br />In the hands of some other writer, this could lead to an  eccentric collection of pet subjects being aired for our review, but in  this case the result is consistently absorbing and illuminating.  In fact,  the book is something of a Christmas turkey, cram packed with all sorts of  odd snippets of lore about Russia; the notes alone are fascinating reading.   And it all manages to hang together and create a coherent picture.   Indeed, it sometimes seems that Billington is trying to create an image of  Russia that haunts you in a sweet, melancholy sort of way, rather like a  Tchaikovsky symphony.<br />In fact, you may feel it hangs together a bit too  well; to the less romantically inclined, it may be a bit too pat.   Certainly the same themes run through the book, and Billington himself  refers to the &quot;irony&quot; of Russian history.  But make no mistake -  there is an incredible amount of scholarship here, to the extent that you  find yourself wondering how one person could actually be so familiar with  so much material.  If you are the sort of person that loves things Russian  to the point of being obsessive (and there are a surprising number of us  out there) the book is a must read.	2000-08-19
US	50983162	R1KQBWS0RS07LS	0140247688	856286396	Russia under the Old Regime: Second Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	Best One-Volume History of Pre-Revolutionary Russia	I only read this book after I had been studying Russian and Russian history for many years, studied in Russia and married a Russian.  It is beyond any doubt the best introduction to the subject that I have found in  English. It removes a large amount of misconceptions that Americans have  about Russian history, illuminates what deserves to be illuminated, avoids  pet topics and romaticisms and manages to do all this without the  condescending tone that most American writers take when writing about  Russia.  If you know nothing about Russia and want to learn, this is an  excellent place to start.	2000-06-24
US	50983162	R29W38TXLMUU4E	0292708122	279846316	Maya for Travelers and Students: A Guide to Language and Culture in Yucatan	Books	3	23	24	N	N	A Useful Introduction to the Yucatec Maya language	Professor Bevington has written a work that fills a large gap in providing some reasonable material to learn Yucatec Maya for the average English speaker.  However, the reader should be advised that the book is probably  more a work of anthropology than it is of linguistics.  The author devotes  a sizable portion of the work to describing the world of the modern Maya, a  fact for which he makes no apologies, and indeed there are a large number  of mental notes that we need to take if we want to understand that world.   However, the actual material on the language is mostly vocabulary arranged  alphabetically, and only one chapter in the book is devoted to grammar.  A  reader with some knowledge of linguistics can construct enough patterns and  paradigms to start off toward a working knowledge, but the average reader  will find the book heavy sledding indeed if he or she expects to be able to  use the language on the ground in the Yucatan.  Several important points of  the grammar, such as noun modifiers and auxiliaries, are treated briefly,  and areas such as the subjunctive are not really covered at all.<br />Due to  the structural context being so different from what we are familiar with,  it is difficult to write a book on a non-European language that can walk  the line between a specialist work and a phrasebook.  If Professor  Bevington's work is more of the latter, it is still a noble effort and if  that is what you are looking for, there is none better available.	2000-06-24
US	50983162	R1JEYYZ5PP60Z4	1870041143	46360374	Lowenskold Ring (Norvik Press Series B)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Selma Lagerlof's elegant simplicity	Not many people read Selma Lagerlof any more, which is a pity - she won the Nobel Prize, after all.  And if you read the &quot;Ring&quot; you'll understand why.  Most of her books are aimed at least ostensibly at  children; the &quot;Ring&quot; is one of her &quot;adult&quot; books, but  like the children's books it has the same artless simplicity and uninvolved  character of a fairy tale about it.  The story at least initially is a sort  of picaresque tale built around an old general's ring, but the center of  attention keeps shifting as you read on. One episode effortlessly develops  into another, and fifty pages later you realize how it all holds together,  but it is so simple and delightful that you don't notice how far afield the  story has taken you.  A real gem.	1999-12-22
US	50983162	R3INUO46HXXGV6	0198151500	279605936	Writing Arabic: A Practical Introduction to Ruq'ah Script	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellently achieves its purpose.	If you want to learn how to write Arabic so that your handwriting would even fool an Arab, there is absolutely no better book available.  Most other Arabic language books teach only naskh script, which is the Arabic  equivalent of block printing and looks juvenile in handwriting.  The few  books that actually do deal with ruqah script don't really teach the  student how to develop good penmanship.  Anbody seriously interested in  learning to write Arabic as it is written in the modern world cannot ignore  this book.	1999-11-19
