US	50980889	R36AJ6GNIWL081	0756401135	988896530	Exile's Honor (Valdemar)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great for fans of Valdemar--don't start with it though	As a longtime fan of Lackey's Valdemar books, I enjoyed getting a little bit of the backstory of some of the familiar characters from the other books.   <br /> <br />Many reviewers have given this book a poor rating, saying this was the first Lackey book they've read and they were unimpressed.  THIS IS NOT A STAND-ALONE NOVEL.  One reviewer mentioned a frustration with the lack of resolution of several plotlines, such as Alberich's suspicion of Lord Orthallen.  This is essentially a prequel to the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy -- Arrows of the Queen, Arrow's Flight, and Arrow's Fall.  The storylines that start in Exile's Honor are setting up the events that occur in the Arrows trilogy.  If you'd like to try Lackey's Valdemar books, I'd start with those.  On my member page is a listmania list of the books in the order I'd recommend you read them.  I adore these books -- they're not especially deep or thought-provoking, but they're fun escapist fantasy. <br /> <br />For those who are Valdemar fans, I'd certainly recommend this book, though it has its flaws, including Alberich talking too much like Yoda and an unnecessary romance subplot with a thinly disguised Mercedes Lackey.  But I really enjoyed spending some time with characters that were already history in the earlier books, such as King Sendar and his King's Own, Talamir, as well as seeing what Selenay was like as a young girl.	2004-08-05
US	50980889	R1D62MO0I31826	0375753257	497948950	Crash Course for the GRE: 10 Easy Steps to a Higher Score (Princeton Review Series)	Books	3	29	31	N	Y	Helpful, but outdated	This book is incredibly useful in studying for the verbal and math sections of the GRE.  However, the test has recently been changed, replacing the multiple-choice analytical section with a writing sample, and this book was published before the change.  Almost half of the book is dedicated to solving the analytical questions which no longer are a part of the exam, and there is, of course, no information about the writing sample.<br />Even if you only have a few weeks to study, I would recommend getting one of the more comprehensive, more up-to-date books.  I found the one published by ETS, the organization that creates the test, to be the most helpful, as it has sample essays to look at and questions to practice writing on.	2002-12-22
US	50980889	R2U0LAJETFAEL9	0451627873	841067083	Double Helix (Mentor)	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	Fascinating	This firsthand account of the discovery of DNA dispels a lot of the notions that ousiders have about how science really works.  Watson's descriptions of the competition, politics, dead ends, personality clashes, mistakes, and eventually inspiration reveal that discovery is not as clear-cut a process as it sometimes might seem.<br />Watson is honest in his introduction that his account is just that, the story told through his own point of view, complete with possible faulty memories and personal prejudices.  I was intrigued by the portrayals of the personalities of so many famous figures that I've been learning about for years in my biology and genetics classes - Francis Crick, of course, along with Maurice Wilikins, Rosalind Franklin, Linus Pauling, and many more.  I was touched by Watson's admission at the end of the book that his unfavorable impressions of Rosalind Franklin stemmed from the fact that she was a woman trying to make a name for herself in the male-dominated world of scientific research in the 1950s.<br />There is quite a bit of biological jargon in this book, and though it could probably be read by someone without any knowledge of genetics, it will be appreciated more by readers with some background.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in genetics and science.	2002-05-08
US	50980889	R2ZMWOHDUYP41A	0451627873	841067083	Double Helix (Mentor)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Fascinating	This firsthand account of the discovery of DNA dispels a lot of the notions that ousiders have about how science really works.  Watson's descriptions of the competition, politics, dead ends, personality clashes, mistakes, and eventually inspiration reveal that discovery is not as clear-cut a process as it sometimes might seem.<br />Watson is honest in his introduction that his account is just that, the story told through his own point of view, complete with possible faulty memories and personal prejudices.  I was intrigued by the portrayals of the personalities of so many famous figures that I've been learning about for years in my biology and genetics classes - Francis Crick, of course, along with Maurice Wilikins, Rosalind Franklin, Linus Pauling, and many more.  I was touched by Watson's admission at the end of the book that his unfavorable impressions of Rosalind Franklin stemmed from the fact that she was a woman trying to make a name for herself in the male-dominated world of scientific research in the 1950s.<br />There is quite a bit of biological jargon in this book, and though it could probably be read by someone without any knowledge of genetics, it will be appreciated more by readers with some background.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in genetics and science.	2002-05-08
US	50980889	R2AVU4LAPG5DYT	0451458656	63095133	Season of Sacrifice	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Mediocre	I found \\"Season of Sacrifice\\" to be a mixture of fresh ideas and tired cliches. However, the biggest problem that I had with this book was not lack of originality...it was the fact that I never really cared about the characters. There was no depth to the character development. None of the people in the book had multifaceted personalities; all were very one-dimensional, and therefore not very interesting. I finished the book because I'm stubborn and I always finish books that I start, but I never experienced that gripping need to find out what happens next that is the whole reason that I love to read.<br />This certainly was not a horrible book, I've read many that were much worse. For readers who are satisfied with a rather superficial story, this might even become a favorite. But I like more meat to my fantasies, and Klasky certainly does not rank alongside authors like Kay, Powers, or Tolkein.	2002-02-11
US	50980889	R328QY98EZ9F2N	0441004016	561680837	The Anubis Gates (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	163	169	N	Y	Absolutely brilliant!	This is the first Tim Powers book I've ever picked up.  It definitely won't be the last.  'Anubis Gates' is the best time travel story that I've ever read.  I should mention, in the name of honesty, that I haven't read a lot of time travel books, because I am easily irritated by paradoxes that aren't resolved, cliches, and &quot;scientific&quot; explanations that don't make any sense.  'Anubis Gates' has none of these problems.  I am in awe of the way that Powers neatly wrapped up every single loose end without making it feel contrived.<br />'Anubis Gates' takes you back to the early nineteenth century in London, with a quick jaunt to the mid-1600s in the middle of the book.  The main character, Brendan Doyle, is a scholar who is researching the biography of the poet William Ashbless, hired to accompany a group of paying passengers back in time from 1983 to see a lecture by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.  I was very curious to see how Powers handled the paradox of changing a history that had already happened - and, to be honest, a bit skeptical that he would be able to satisfy me.  I was pleasantly surprised.  The paradoxes resolve themselves so neatly that it made me pause and think, &quot;maybe this *is* what happened&quot;.  The thread of Egyptian mythology that ties the story together makes the suspension of disbelief easy, since Powers isn't trying to convince you that the technology for time-travel actually existed in 1983, rather he is relying on a mysticism that has been around for millenia.  And the ending was just perfect.<br />I cannot recommend this book enough.  I can't wait to read more of what Powers has written.	2002-01-31
US	50980889	R2FQUBHOU3N8AL	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A little disjointed	I thoroughly enjoyed the first half of this book.  I won't rehash the basic plot - you can read the synopsis above and many of the other reviews for that.  I was completely enthralled by the mystery of what had happened to the old Europe.  I had absolutely no idea what to expect.  And then, the first of several &quot;interludes&quot; jolted me from the alternate 1920 to the millions-of-years-from-now far future.  It was a bit disorienting and didn't really seem to connect to the story thus far except for a few hints that didn't make sense until they were explained much later on.<br />Don't get me wrong, I finished the book and did enjoy it.  Guilford Law is a very likeable character and if the plot requires a more-than-average amount of suspension of disbelief, it is still worth reading.  But the story doesn't flow smoothly, the transitions are awkward, and the reality of what is happening, when revealed, is a bit cheesy.  Take it out of the library, but I wouldn't spend the money.  I'd give it 3 1/2 stars if I could.	2002-01-21
US	50980889	R31NBRB9MQJIDY	0306807971	363906660	A Delusion Of Satan	Books	5	65	69	N	Y	Horribly fascinating	Inspired by a field trip with my students to Salem, I browsed a little through Amazon's selections about the witch trials to find a good book to teach me more about what happened.  I settled on this one, and was not disappointed.<br />&quot;A Delusion of Satan&quot; is both well-written and well-researched.  Frances Hill has used evidence from many primary sources to back up her descriptions of what happened in Salem in 1692.  She is careful to present all of the information accurately, and has changed nothing except to modernize some of the grammar to make it easier for the reader to understand.  The large bibliography at the back of the book attests to the amount of effort that went into researching the book, and also provides suggestions for further reading about the subject.<br />Although historical accuracy is one of the most important aspects of a book like this, to earn five stars it also has to be readable.  Hill's writing is clear and insightful, and many of the people in the story are made very real.  The backgrounds of both the accused and the young girls doing the accusing are given in as much detail as is available.  Hill's psychological analysis of the mass hysteria is believable and makes sense, at least to this layperson.<br />The story of the Salem witch trials is chilling.  We'd like to think that such a thing could *never* happen today.  And yet, as Hill makes clear in her introduction, such modern &quot;witch-hunts&quot; *do* occur, though many of us are unaware.  Reading this book reminds you that open-mindedness and willingness to embrace the unknown should be traits that we all share.  I highly recommend this book to anyone looking to learn more about this horrible period in our history.	2001-10-31
US	50980889	R280KCZ9RSOS6E	038549422X	521002760	The Freedom Writers Diary: How a Teacher and 150 Teens Used Writing to Change Themselves and the World Around Them	Books	5	53	63	N	Y	POWERFUL	I wish that everyone who doubts that one person could possibly make a difference in the world would read this book.  Talk about inspiration!  Erin Gruwell, as a beginning teacher who was &quot;stuck&quot; with the students that no one else wanted to teach, transformed those 150 students over the course of their four years in high school into a group of passionate, determined young men and women instead of the doomed nobodies that they originally saw themselves to be.  These teens have lived terrible lives, survived situations that many people try to pretend don't even exist, and have come to adulthood believing in themselves for the first time.  Many of the journal entries in this book actually made me cry.<br />I am a beginning teacher myself, and though my students are not the at-risk youth that Ms. Gruwell taught, I can strongly identify with her and with her accomplishments - giving me hope that someday I can make as significant a contribution to my community that she has to hers.	2001-08-23
US	50980889	R3SX3QS5RJ9RQ7	0886778328	177680875	The Tough Guide to Fantasyland	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A must-read for fantasy fans	Fantasies are full of cliches - even the best ones usually contain one or two elements that have been beaten to death in the genre.  &quot;The Tough Guide to Fantasyland&quot; is the best book I've read making fun of these ubiquitous cliches.  I laughed out loud at least once on every page.  From the generic map on the first pages, to the explanations of why most fantasyland names have to contain apostrophes, to the *real* story of horse reproduction, nothing is safe from DWJ's clever wit.  Prepare to venture into fantasyland with this guide - and don't forget to look out for the REEK OF WRONGNESS (Official Management Term)!	2001-08-01
US	50980889	R24OOO37ES7JWK	0300087659	570465362	The Other Boston Busing Story: What`s Won and Lost Across the Boundary Line	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Important insights	The Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity, or METCO, is a program that buses students from inner-city neighborhoods of Boston to various suburban districts for part or all of their schooling.  Although the stated goal of the program is to provide equal educational opportunities to students living in districts where the schools are regarded as being lower in quality than in the suburbs, it serves another important purpose in promoting racial desegregation.  Most of the students that participate in METCO are African-American, and most of the districts that they are bused to are mostly, if not entirely, white.<br />&quot;The Other Boston Busing Story&quot; is not a statistical study of the costs and benefits of METCO and other such programs.  Neither is it a single narrative story.  Rather, Susan Eaton has interviewed 65 adults who participated in METCO when they were students.  Their memories of the experience vary, but there are several common threads running through each person's story.  The awkwardness felt by black students in predominantly white settings - as well as the corresponding discomfort that came from losing a sense of belonging to the predominantly black neighborhoods in which they grew up - is explored through personal recountings and reminiscences.  The interviewees also, for the most part, credited their years in suburbia with making them better prepared to venture out as adults into a society where they will always be a minority, and will always face some degree of racism and bigotry.  The advantages and disadvantages of programs such as METCO are explored in depth and with great sensitivity.<br />I have just completed my first year of teaching in one of the suburban districts that participates in the METCO program.  I had four METCO students in my class, and often wondered what they were feeling or thinking, how their formative adolescent years (a difficult time for anyone) were being impacted by this experience.  Reading many of the interviewees' comments about the lack of understanding shown by some of their teachers, I had to admit to myself that I have been guilty of similar misunderstandings, and gained some important insights on how I can better relate to my METCO students in future classes.  This book should be a requirement for any teacher or counselor who works in a school that participates in METCO (or similar programs in other cities).	2001-06-27
US	50980889	R22S40LUE9DJVF	0061020028	269719484	Lord of Emperors (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Richly crafted	I read &quot;Lord of Emperors&quot; in two days.  I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;Sailing to Sarantium&quot; and gave it five stars without hesitation; I think its sequel surpassed it in many ways.  The novel is not only concerned with many of the old friends from the first one (Caius Crispus the mosaicist, Scortius the charioteer, the imperial couple Valerius and Alixana) but also introduces us to new characters (the physican Rustem and his family) and gives us more information about lives that had previously only been glimpsed (Kyros the cook's apprentice, Pardos the mosaicist, Shirin the dancer, the family of the senator Plautus Bonosus).  As in all of his books, Kay is able to paint a richly detailed picture of each of his characters, even those that don't figure importantly into the story.  <br />The plot, as in the first book, is full of scandal, secrets, politics, and emotions running wild.  I never found the plot twists to be predictable, yet they never seemed arbitrary or unreal (a trap that too many authors fall into when they try not to be predictable).  And for action fans - the chariot racing is simply stunning!  <br />This duology takes place in the same world as Kay's earlier novel &quot;Lions of Al-Rassan&quot;.  Although it is chronologically earlier, I would recommend reading the books in the order that they were published. There are several points (particularly near the end) that foreshadow the way the world is to become, that will only be appreciated by those who have already read &quot;Lions&quot; (also a fantastic book and highly recommended).<br />Events in this novel do not always turn out the way that the reader's sense of justice would want them to, which is what makes Kay's writing so real.  All of the main characters have &quot;sailed to Sarantium&quot; - they've embarked on life-altering adventures and come through irrevocably changed.  Read &quot;Sailing to Sarantium&quot;, and then read &quot;Lord of Emperors&quot;.  Kay provides a new interpretation of our own world's history that is worth reading.	2001-06-21
US	50980889	R37892JQUJF8KP	0345396936	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A predictable yet engrossing read	Anne Rice fans will find much that is familiar in &quot;Cry to Heaven&quot;, although unlike her other popular novels, there is no element of the supernatural present here.  This is a book that will transport the reader back to 18th century Italy, into a world of politics, intrigue, corruption, and most of all, music.  Rice's writing is as full and rich as always, with detailed settings and fully realized characters.  The novel is well-researched, I learned much about the time period that I didn't know before.<br />The flaw?  I found most of the major plot twists to be extremely predictable.  I won't give anything away, but every time something shocking happened, I had already guessed what was to come at least a chapter before.  Maybe I've just read too many books.  Regardless, I would still recommend this book to any Anne Rice fan.	2001-05-31
US	50980889	R2M6PTUIWVTN1E	0446605158	184074149	The Reality Dysfunction: Emergence - Part I	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Great series - weak first book	I wanted to wait until finishing the entire series before I sat down to write a review of this book, and I'm glad that I did.  On the strength of the rest of the Night's Dawn books, I would recommend this beginning installment, although as a single novel I did not particularly enjoy it.<br />I'll start with the bad news.  The story starts off in a disjointed fashion.  I found that as soon as I was beginning to become interested in a particular character, the chapter ended and I was introduced to someone totally new.  The characterization in general is very weak - in the entire series, actually, but it is weakest in the beginning.  The characters are the stock, cliched participants in most space operas, and do not have enough personality to become interesting.  <br />There are several disturbingly graphic scenes of violence, which I found somewhat distasteful and difficult to read.  The main villain does not have an ounce of humanity to him, making him one of the most detestable characters I've ever read, but at the same time making him something of a cardboard cutout.  Furthermore, Hamilton seems to feel the need to toss in way too many explicit sex scenes unrelated to the plot, as if he thought he needed the sexual content to sell the book.  Yes, some of it is needed as it is an integral part of some of the character relationships.  But it goes overboard and lessens the impact of the plot.<br />Lastly, the writing style irked me.  I don't know if the differences in grammar that bothered me are due to the fact that Hamilton is a British writer and I am American, but the sentences were frequently choppy and the grammar not quite right.<br />So why on earth would I recommend the book at all?  Because if you can make it through this first installment in the Night's Dawn series, it is a series that is worth reading.  I wouldn't call it *brilliant* (some people compare it to Dan Simmons' &quot;Hyperion&quot;, but personally I don't think Hamilton can hold a candle to Simmons' genius), but it is a real page-turner and will give you a lot of food for thought.  As the series continues, there is less violence, the sex becomes less irrelevant to the plot, historical figures pop up in unexpected places, fascinating mysteries are introduced and eventually resolved, and the ending is quite satisfying.  If you have a difficult time getting through this first book, it might be worth having someone explain the major plot points to you so you can continue with &quot;The Neutronium Alchemist&quot;, because that's when it starts to get good.  Happy reading!	2001-04-25
US	50980889	R3P793X35PZP0F	1563151448	194602540	Wysard	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	Lyrical writing, original plot	Reading &quot;Wysard&quot; was like taking a breath of fresh air.  Carolyn Kephart has created world that, while not as detailed as those of George R.R. Martin or Robert Jordan, is vividly described and utterly lacking in cliches.  Carolyn Kephart's prose flows across the page and delights the imagination; reading some of the descriptive passages, I could *see* the magical city of Markul hidden in the mists, or the lush gardens of the Diamond Heaven.  <br />The characters are real human beings, and the reader will get swept up in their troubles.  Ryel Mirai has many complex relationships, with interesting people such as his uncle and mentor the wysard Edris, his friend Priamnor, and Priamnor's sister Diara.  Many of the minor characters were fascinating as well, although I wish that they could have been developed more.<br />&quot;Wysard&quot; is a fast read, and at the end leaves the reader wanting more.  If you enjoy shorter, lyrical works rather than epic fantasies, I would highly recommend this book.  Even if you *are* a fan of epics (I myself am a frequent reader of epic fantasies), &quot;Wysard&quot; is worth checking out.  I can't wait for the second volume!	2001-02-05
US	50980889	R2FIJYZZIGQ200	0967571294	179381736	Ninth Day of Creation	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Couldn't put it down!	What a book!  Even though it numbers over 600 pages, I finished it in a mere three days, it was that gripping.  &quot;The Ninth Day of Creation&quot; is both science fiction and a political thriller, written masterfully so that the suspense builds and builds and never lets up.  <br />A brilliant, young, unassuming scientist has developed a potential cure for AIDS.  Mexico's feisty female president is causing major headaches for the US presidency.  The Chinese government is attempting to cover up the drastic measures that it has undertaken to prevent the country's collapse.  These three seemingly unrelated plots turn out to be intertwined so fully that the events that unfold have shattering implications for everyone concerned.  Leonard Crane weaves his plot so well that it's difficult to believe that this is his first novel.<br />For me, the most important aspect that determines whether or not I like a book is if I care about the characters.  All of the main players in this book (and most of the minor characters as well) are very real and mostly likeable, despite their very human flaws.  Even the villains are portrayed as real people with real reasons behind their despicable actions, twisted as those reasons may be.<br />I normally do not particularly enjoy this type of political thriller.  It says something for Crane's ability to write a story that I picked up his book and didn't put it down until I had finished it three days later.  The action never stops, the science is fascinating and well-researched, the characters are delightful, and the ending is satisfying.  Who could ask for more?	2000-12-31
US	50980889	RYQFVMLKSD2FN	0809900033	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Book 1)	Books	5	198	209	N	Y	Starts off slow but worth staying with	People who have picked up this book fall into two categories: those who gave up after 100 pages or so, saying that it was too slow and didn't hold their interest, and those who stubbornly stuck it out through the slow parts and to their delight, found themselves in the middle of one of the best epic fantasies written so far.  Yes, the beginning of the series is a bit long and drawn-out, but it is really worth sticking with.<br />The basic plot of this book - of this entire series - is nothing new.  Those who have read a lot of fantasy will find a lot of familiar elements - the standard young hero coming of age, a mysterious nonhuman race driven out of the land when men first arrived, an ageless wisewoman who seems to know everything, a king corrupted by evil, and magical artifacts of all sorts.  The brilliant thing about Tad Williams is that he rises above the cliches to create a story that is more original and less predictable than it should be.<br />The world of Osten Ard is detailed and very real, and the characters even more so.  The cast of characters is very large, yet somehow easy to keep track of (and if the reader gets confused as to who is who, there is an appendix at the end of the book listing all of the names with tips on how to pronounce them).  Simon, the main protagonist, grows and changes in the time-honored fashion of kitchen-boys-turned-heroes everywhere, yet the story never feels old or cliched.  <br />Williams is a master storyteller.  I would recommend this series to any fan of epic fantasy.	2000-12-26
US	50980889	R1MGHQXJGV0NQ8	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A brain-twisting epic	I've been wanting to read Zelazny's Amber Chronicles for a long time, but had a hard time finding them all, so I jumped at the chance to have them all in one volume.  The purchase was worth every penny and much more!<br />Zelazny knows how to hook you into a story from the very beginning - a paragraph or two and I already couldn't put it down.  The start of the book is confusing, because it's told in first person and Corwin, the main character, is in the midst of amnesia.  However, it's written in such a way that you can still follow the story, and are kept in such suspense that you keep reading.  The reader learns what's going on at the same time as  Corwin does, and the series takes off from there.  I found it difficult at first to keep the names straight of the various Amberite siblings, but as the series went on and the characters were fleshed out, it became easier.<br />I liked the first half of the volume (the first five books), which concern Corwin, better than the second half (second five books), which are mostly about the next generation of Amberites.  However, both are extremely well written and keep you turning pages.  Zelazny definitely has a way with words: &quot;...something within me looked for words to wear, failed, ran naked away through the night.&quot;  Sometimes the long descriptions of the shifts between shadows got to be a little bit *too* wordy, but nobody's perfect!<br />The concept of parallel universes is not a new one, but the way that Zelazny has presented it is refreshingly original.  Our own world figures prominently in the story, and I particularly enjoyed a bizarre trip Through the Looking Glass to visit Wonderland at one point during the second series.  Fantastic.  Highly recommended.	2000-11-16
US	50980889	R3AYGUV6LWIQ50	0393319504	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal: A Novel	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Quite a journey...	This is the only one of Andrea Barrett's books that I've read, but upon finishing it, I'm itching to read more.  &quot;The Voyage of the Narwhal&quot; totally enthralled me.  It gives an in-depth look at  what Arctic exploration was like in the 1850s.  Ms. Barrett has clearly done her research; I admit that I'm no historian, but as far as I could tell, all of the background information was accurate (the main characters, of course, being fictional).  Tales of the exploration of new and strange landscapes, if done well, will suck you in and make it extremely difficult for you to put the book down.  This book fills that description admirably.<br />However, it's so much more than an adventure novel.  In addition to its pure historical accuracy, the book also dwells on the general attitudes of that time period towards science.  The main character, Erasmus Darwin Wells, is the naturalist on board the Narwhal, back during the time when every ship had a naturalist to collect and preserve whatever flora and fauna they encountered.  <br />The book takes place not long after Charles Darwin's stint as a naturalist on board the Beagle, during which time he formulated his ideas on evolution and natural selection.  It is clear from the discussions that Erasmus has with his colleagues that Darwin's ideas have not been totally accepted, and reading about these varying viewpoints, unsure about the truth of Darwin's theory, fascinated me.   The attitudes of the day towards other races of humans were split into factions; some believed that each race is its own separate species (hence the practice of slavery and prejudice was easily justified, as the &quot;lower&quot; races weren't as &quot;highly evolved&quot; as the white race), others believed in the equality of all humankind.  These attitudes are revealed in the various crew members when the Narwhal encounters several tribes of Esquimaux on her journey.<br />All of these factors make for a fantastic book - and I haven't yet said anything about the characters.  They are all very real and complex, and the different layers of their personalities are revealed as the Narwhal moves farther into uncharted territory and the niceties of civilization are slowly stripped away.  Furthermore, there is just as much development of the women left behind on the mainland, waiting for their men to return to them.  Their stories show the frustration and powerlessness that were felt by women in the days when they had little or no control over their lives, and were denied any sort of public recognition for their work.<br />If all of Barrett's books are as good as this one, I'm in for a treat, because I'm planning on buying some of them as soon as possible!	2000-10-28
US	50980889	R35G7SQMBPTEOG	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Martin is a master of fantasy	I discovered George R.R. Martin when I was delayed at an airport and went to browse through the books to see if there was anything interesting there.  &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot; looked interesting, so I coughed up the money and settled down to read and wait for my plane.  I almost missed the boarding call!  I think that this series (at least, so far) is the best epic fantasy that I have ever read (possible exception being Tad Williams' &quot;Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn&quot; - if you liked that you'll *definitely* like this).<br />&quot;A Clash of Kings&quot; returns us to the world of Westeros, a land that is now torn apart by the struggles of 5 different self-proclaimed monarchs, as well as a queen across the sea who is plotting to return and claim what she believes to be her rightful throne.  At the center of the struggle are the two families Stark and Lannister.  It is an extremely complex plot, and is sometimes difficult to keep track of the huge cast of characters, but the way that the various subplots interweave to form a coherent story is absolutely fantastic.<br />Not only is the world interesting, not only is the plot complex, dark, and unpredictable, but the characters are distinct, fascinating individuals, every one.  Although the series started off with a pretty clear distinction between the protagonists and the antagonists (Stark - good; Lannister - bad), by the time &quot;A Clash of Kings&quot; ends, there are no &quot;good guys&quot; and no &quot;bad guys&quot;.  I found myself sympathizing with Tyrion Lannister, rooting for Daenerys Targaryen, and getting irritated with Sansa Stark.  Sure, you still have the sneaky, scheming characters like Cersei and Joffrey Lannister, and the pure of heart heroes like Robb and Catelyn Stark, but there are so many &quot;in-between&quot; characters.  The ones you can't trust, like Varys the eunuch and Petyr Baelish.  Those who simply are loyal to whomever they are sworn to serve, like Sandor Clegane, Ser Rodrik Cassel, and Ser Davos the Onion Knight.  The knights, soldiers, and sellswords who change sides at the drop of a hat with an offer of gold or a better chance at victory.  The innocent children who don't know any better and end up as pawns in a giant game that they have no control over, like Marcella and Tommen Lannister and Bran and Rickon Stark.  And far to the north, the brothers of the Night's Watch who don't concern themselves with the struggles of the kingdom, but instead devote their lives to protecting the land from the wild beyond the Wall.<br />If you like epic fantasy, you *must* read this series.  Don't try to jump in with &quot;A Clash of Kings&quot;, it's way too complicated to skip the first book; go read &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot;, then come back to this one.  You won't regret it.	2000-09-22
US	50980889	R285OW0JPL3YVR	0962936022	979042812	The First Days of School: How to Be an Effective Teacher	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	Practical advice for all teachers	I'm about to start my first year teaching, and a friend lent me this book.  I found it to be incredibly helpful and am now going to buy my own copy so  that I can have it for reference when I have to give it back to him.  There  were a few sections that I thought could have been either rewritten or  eliminated, but most of the advice was exactly the kind of advice that I  have been looking for: how to manage a classroom, the best way to plan a  lesson...how to be an effective teacher and how NOT to be an ineffective  teacher.  After reading through the book and taking the Wongs' incredibly  useful ideas, I feel much more confident in my ability to teach and teach  well.	2000-08-31
US	50980889	RM0ZZJQEAW1LM	0812509137	869828645	Beldan's Fire (Queen's Quarter Trilogy)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Unique	I bought this book a long time ago, but never read it because I found out that it was the last book of a trilogy.  It took me many years to locate  the first two books in used bookstores, but I finally did, and just  finished the trilogy last night.  What a shame that they're so hard to find  - this is one of the most original fantasies I've read. <br />The concept of  the trilogy is that the world of Oran is held together and protected from  Chaos by a &quot;Queen's Quarter Knot&quot;, composed of four women, each  with the power of one of the four elements.  200 years ago, the Fire Queen  Zorah revolted, killed her three sisters, and is now ruling the country  herself, using the magic of her element to keep herself young.  But she  can't do everything herself, so she has brought in a Regent and many of his  followers from the neighboring country of Silea, and the native Orans are  suffering under the arrogant rule of the Sileans.  The New Moon is the name  that the Oran rebels have given themselves, and their struggle both against  Zorah and the Sileans is one focus of the story; the other is the formation  of a new Queen's Quarter Knot as the four elements find each other and  realize that Zorah is beginning to lose control and let Chaos claim the  land.<br />The tough street slang of Jobber and the other city-bred characters  makes the dialogue more interesting and fun to read.  Snyder's Beldan is a  well-detailed city with both a seamy underworld and corrupt nobility.  The  Oran countryside is no less well described.  I wish that these three books  (the first two are New Moon and Sadar's Keep) were not out of print,  because I'd recommend them to any fantasy reader.  They're worth searching  used bookstores for.	2000-08-26
US	50980889	R1H8SVZRBEKB2X	055329024X	707064829	Earth	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Realistic and thought-provoking	Brin's 'Earth' takes place in the year 2038, and the portrait painted of  our society 40-some years from now is so totally plausible that it's a  little disturbing.  By 2038, Earth's population has grown to over 10  billion, natural resources are even more depleted than they are today, and  many people think that the population is on the verge of a massive crash.   Brin's depiction of the way that various sectors of society deal with this  concept is complex and fascinating.  <br />Although many of the scientific  aspects of the book were somewhat confusing to me, I was still able to  follow the plot.  I have studied quite a bit of ecology, have also had a  few courses in geophysics, and I was pleased that everything Brin has  included in his story is consistent with today's scientific beliefs.  The  structure of the novel is interesting as well; little tidbits from the  general populace and their responses to the events detailed in the chapters  are interspersed throughout the book.<br />Furthermore, the character  development is excellent; many &quot;hard&quot; science fiction novels are  more about the technology and the situations than about the characters  themselves, but Brin has made his characters and their motivations very  real and well-developed.  Even the less important characters like Logan Eng  were as detailed as the central protagonists.<br />There was only one thing  that I did not like about this book, and that is the 'deus ex machina'  (sp?) of the ending.  I won't say any more because I don't want any  spoilers.<br />'Earth' raises a lot of issues about the environment, the  supposed superiority of humankind, the interconnectedness of all living  things, the individual's right to privacy, and much more.  Lots of food for  thought and a fantastic book for discussion (I read this for a book  discussion group, and I can't wait to hear what everyone else has to say  about it).  I haven't read anything else by David Brin, but after reading  'Earth', Idefinitely want to.	2000-08-22
US	50980889	R3PJ11H7OES0F7	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	349	376	N	N	Vintage Irving	&quot;A Prayer for Owen Meany&quot; is NOT your typical book.  Of course,  that could be said about any of John Irving's novels; his is one of the  most unusual voices I've ever read.  But this one is especially unique.   Owen Meany is probably the most memorable character that I've ever come  across in a book of any genre.  A dwarf with a voice so striking and  strange that his dialogue is WRITTEN IN ALL CAPITAL LETTERS, he also  believes (rightly!) that he is an instrument of God.  It is sometimes  confusing to follow the jumps in time; the narrator, Owen's best friend  Johnny Wheelwright, alternates the story of his growing up with Owen with  anecdotes from his &quot;present&quot; life in the late  80's.<br />Predestination, faith, doubt, politics, love, hate, family,  friendship...these are all themes that make appearances in this book.   Furthermore, it is a page-turner that is impossible to put down, right from  the start.  I read the entire second half of the book in one marathon  reading session, wasting an entire morning because I couldn't bear to stop,  knowing that more revelations were in store.  I've read some of Irving's  other novels, and loved them all, but I think &quot;A Prayer for Owen  Meany&quot; has been the best so far.	2000-08-15
US	50980889	R396J4QH15CMY0	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	213	224	N	N	Truly touching	I read this book for school when I was in 7th grade, and just finished re-reading it ten years and a degree in biology later.  I loved it when I  was a teen, and (after forcing myself to ignore my instinctive scientific  skepticism) still love it today.<br />It's a very thought-provoking story, all  the more so when you consider that it was written about 40 years ago when  society was a bit less tolerant of the mentally retarded than it is now.   Charlie is a man in his 30s with an IQ of 68 when the book starts; through  a controversial experimental operation, his IQ gets higher and higher until  it soars at one point to 185.  The story is told through the journal  entries that he is told to keep for the researchers in charge of the study.   Through Charlie's words, you can see how sharply his intellect grows and  how difficult it is for him because as smart as he becomes, his *emotional*  intelligence is still that of a child.  <br />Charlie's emergence from  ignorance is painful for him; imagine learning all of life's hard truth's  in a matter of weeks rather than the normal development from innocent child  to worldly adult.  And the ending of the book is heartwrenching.  Everyone  should read &quot;Flowers for Algernon&quot; at some point in their life.   It's a classic.	2000-08-11
US	50980889	R3GX01CT7RF4TA	0553354485	595035336	Bring Me the Head of Prince Charming	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A hilarious view of good and evil	Azzie the demon has come up with an idea.  Every thousand years, there is a contest between good and evil to determine the fate of humankind for the next millenium, and Azzie wins the right to compete for the evil team.   This book is one of the funniest that I've read in a while.  The obstacles  that Azzie faces, such as having to find the right body parts to construct  the ideal Prince Charming and Sleeping Beauty or having to make do with  only one castle because Supply is out of stock, are truly hysterical.  You  will find yourself rooting for evil to win.  I highly recommend this book  if you're looking for a good laugh!	2000-07-28
US	50980889	R26PQODRFGVGS9	0966763122	473663147	Rookie Year: Journey of a First-Year Teacher	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Good intentions, but...	The only reason that I finished this book is that I was required to read it for a class.  The story is decent, but the problem that I had with it is that the main character is teaching for the very first time in his whole  life, and he doesn't make any mistakes!  I've been student teaching for two  weeks, and I've already made more mistakes than Thomas Payne does in his  entire first year.  Because I know the system inside and out (I am actually  doing my student teaching in Boston Public Schools summer school program),  the book wasn't real to me because everything went way too smoothly!   Everything that he tries works.  Inner-city kids are difficult, and I know  from experience that you will rarely get through to them on the first try,  and not without a great deal of effort.<br />This in and of itself would not  be enough to make me give a book such a low rating as 2 stars.  One of the  main things that really bugged me was the personality of Thomas Payne  himself.  He always has sex on the brain, and every time he comes into  contact with any woman at all, whether it be someone he met at church or  the gym, his female co-workers, or his students' family members, there is  *always* a comment on how sexy or &quot;fine&quot; she looks.  Ugh!<br />The  other thing that turned me off was the writing itself.  Reed may have had a  decent story to tell, but I don't think that he is a very good writer.  His  attempts at style fall flat - he has a tendency to use phrases such as  &quot;the first-year teacher did this&quot;, &quot;the big man did  that&quot;, or &quot;the troubled woman said this&quot; instead of using a  simple pronoun.  It really cluttered up what might have read smoothly  otherwise.<br />Some of the other characters did hold my interest, like some  of the students, which is why the book gets two stars from me instead of  one.  But there are so many other excellent books and novels written about  education, my opinion is that you shouldn't waste your time with this one.	2000-07-21
US	50980889	R2FS7CW9PBA7GM	0871137364	656412676	On the Outside Looking In: A Year in an Inner-City High School	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Reality like a slap in the face	This is one of those eye-opening books that brings to vivid life a world that you might previously have known absolutely nothing about.  This is not fiction - this is real.  Cristina Rathbone is a journalist who spent a year  as an observer in one of New York's most struggling high schools, one which  has become a &quot;dumping ground&quot; for the students that no other  school will take.  'On the Outside Looking In' is Ms. Rathbone's chronicle  of the experience.<br />The students of West Side High are deeply troubled.   Many are homeless, in trouble with the law, victims of abuse, members of  gangs, or any and all of the above.  They have never known a world other  than the streets that they grew up on.  It is evident through Rathbone's  writing that she grew to care deeply about many of the students that she  came into contact with.  Through her chronicling of the time she spent with  them, Rathbone shows how several of the kids allowed her brief glimpses  into their inner selves, the personalities hiding behind the tough front.   <br />One scene in particular comes to mind, as a 13-year-old girl who comes  to school every day from a home for disturbed teens uncharacteristically  volunteers to read to her class a prayer that she had written: &quot;...So,  Father, can you tell me who there is to talk to when people seem deaf?  How  is there a river overflow when there's no tears?  How is there fear when  there's no emotion?  How are you a victim with no crime?  There is no  response.  Just dead silence....Where do I turn when loneliness is near?   Will the answer appear or will I have to just keep on searching?&quot;   Revelations like this are strewn throughout the book.<br />This is *not* a  book about how to teach urban youth.  Rathbone is a journalist, not a  teacher, and this book is not a method book.  Rather, this is a book that  exposes those of us who have led rather sheltered lives to a frightening  reality that too many people in this world have to face every day.  It also  brings to light many of the problems with public education, and how the  schools that need funding the most always seem to recieve the least.   Cristina Rathbone has written a well-written and moving memoir, and I'd  recommend it to anyone who is willing to read it and face a painful  reality.	2000-07-12
US	50980889	R5W38HS4MBFMS	0345343093	17564722	Masks of the Martyrs (Rings of the Master)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great entertainment	The Rings of the Master books are the kind of science fiction that you  like to read over and over again.  They are not particularly original -  after all, there have been countless books written about computers being in  control of humankind.  But they're fun to read, the characters are great,  and the aliens are as weird as aliens can be.  And I have to say, the code  that the protagonists have to eventually figure out at the end is pretty  genius - see if you can decipher it before they do!  I give this series  three stars for content, five stars for enjoyment.  Don't bother with it if  you're in the mood for something really deep and earthshaking, but I still  number these four books among my favorites.  Happy reading!	2000-07-07
US	50980889	RDMYYIV3SHFMP	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A worthy sequel to &quot;Hyperion&quot;	I loved \\"Hyperion\\" so much that I was almost afraid to pick the sequel up, fearing that it wouldn't measure up to the incredibly high standard that Dan Simmons had set (see my review of \\"Hyperion\\" for more details).  I needn't have worried.  \\"The Fall of  Hyperion\\" further demonstrates Simmons' amazing ability to meld  science fiction with poetry, two genres that I would have never thought  could be combined.  There were several points when I had to put the book  down in order to digest what I had just read before i was able to continue,  it moved me that muchThe characters you have grown to empathize with in  the first novel are forced through more unnerving experiences on the world  of Hyperion, with the mysterious Shrike.  However, the focus of this book  shifts somewhat from the first, elaborating on the big picture as well as  the events that are happening on Hyperion.  I found much of the book to be  confusing, but I kept going anyways and it all eventually made sense in the  end.\\"The Fall of Hyperion\\" explores issues that normally do  not surface in the science fiction genre: free will and slavery, religion  and faith, and whether the ultimate loyalty should be to the institutions  that humanity has created or to the human race itself.  It is a work of  literature that, in my opinion, should be ranked along with many of the  other enduring classics that are taught in our schools.  This is not an  easy book to read - the Shrike is, after all, known as \\"The Lord of  Pain\\" - but it is well worth it.	2000-06-16
US	50980889	R34SIHP1I61D47	0380708906	357909673	Arthur (Pendragon Cycle)	Books	2	14	23	N	N	A bit flat	I was somewhat disappointed in this book.  It presents a very watered-down version of the King Arthur legend.  I am no medieval scholar, and it is possible that it is historically accurate and well-researched; this is not  my gripe.  It's just that so many of the elements of the story are missing,  like the love between Guinevere (Gwenhwyvar in this book) and Lancelot  (Llenlleawg).  The prophecy about Arthur meeting his death at the hands of  his son is mentioned once, but he never has a son - Lawhead does not  incorporate Arthur's inadvertent incest with his sister into his story,  hence there is no product of the union.  It seemed to me that the search  for the Grail was added almost as an afterthought, with a few foreshadowed  lines thrown in here and there in Merlin, the book before this one.<br />Mostly, this book was about a seemingly endless series of battles, where  all sorts of miracles happen like Arthur's army of 900 men defeating a  barbarian army of 10,000 without a single casualty.  Aside from the major  players Arthur, Merlin, Charis, and the evil Morgian, none of the  characters were very well-developed.  They spoke the same, reacted the  same, and had very few distinguishing characteristics.  The women were all  impossibly beautiful but (aside from Charis) never had much to say.  The  device of having the three sections of the book told from three different  viewpoints didn't do much for me; I think I would have enjoyed the book  more if it had just been written in the third person.<br />One redeeming  quality of Lawhead's writing is his descriptive ability.  Every once in a  while he describes a landscape so clearly that I could see it in my mind's  eye.<br />If you are looking for a quasi-historical account of the battles  that King Arthur fought, the politics of the Roman empire at the time, and  the rise of Christianity in Britain, then this book may be for you.  If you  are looking for a retelling of the legend in all of its magic and with all  of its darkness, go read Marion Zimmer Bradley's &quot;The Mists of  Avalon&quot; instead.all  of its darkness, go read Marion Zimmer Bradley's &quot;The Mists of  Avalon&quot; instead.	2000-06-04
US	50980889	R2XVNIRKG2SXM	0451188918	578438165	My First Year as a Teacher: Twenty-Five Teachers Talk about Their Amazing First-Year Classroom Experiences	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Inspiring	It's easy to forget what it is that makes you want to be a teacher.  This is a book that reminds you.  It is a collection of 25 stories, chosen from over 400 entries, told by real teachers about their first year.  No two are  alike - some are about particular memorable students, others about some of  the hardships that are encountered as a novice teacher.  I particularly  liked one story about a first-year elementary school teacher whose problem  was not his students, but his fellow teachers who were resentful of his  success.  <br />The sampling of stories in this book give a good idea of what  kind of problems one might encounter as a teacher, yet they also describe  how rewarding the profession can be.  I am a student of education, and  reading this book only reinforced my decision to become a teacher.  For  anyone who is thinking about teaching, or for veteran teachers who need a  reminder of the importance of their profession, for anyone with an interest  in education, I would recommend this book.	2000-06-02
US	50980889	R3D9CXPRU7J189	0451160312	444406044	I Never Promised You a Rose Garden	Books	5	105	107	N	N	A young girl's journey to health	I read and loved this book as an adolescent.  I recently saw it at the library and decided to take it out and read it again.  I just finished re-reading it and found it as powerful as I remembered, possibly even more  so.<br />I Never Promised You a Rose Garden presents a complete picture of  mental illness from the patient's point of view, without the stigma of  wrongness that is frequently associated with it.  The picture painted is a  very real one, from Deborah's relief when the doctors confirm what she's  known all along, that something is not right, to the way her family deals  with the fact of her illness.  Greenberg/Green evokes very strong emotions  with her writing.  You feel Deborah's fear that her secret world of Yr will  punish her for revealing its existence to her doctor, and you share in her  triumph when she begins to make her way back to the world.  I put down this  book with a little more understanding of how it must feel to be mentally  ill.  I would recommend it to anyone, teen or adult.	2000-05-31
US	50980889	R22KXJL56KAIM6	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A soul-stirring novel	Less than halfway through this book, I knew that I had found a new favorite Science Fiction author.  Hyperion is absolutely breathtaking.  It started off a little slow and confusing, but once the seven pilgrims  started telling their tales, I was hooked.  Each tale is somewhat of a  novella in itself, but they are all related in that they deal with the  world of Hyperion and the being known as the Shrike.  Seldom have I come  across a sci-fi book that touched me as deeply as this one did.  It  transcends the sci-fi stereotype; yes, there are aliens, yes, it takes  place in the future, in space, but this is just the setting - the book is  about seven human beings and their experiences. It is really just a  prologue, setting the scene and introducing the mysteries to be solved.   Make sure you have the sequels ready to start right when you finish,  because I didn't, and it was torture!<br />I would recommend this book to  anyone, whether they are frequent readers of science fiction or just  beginning to explore the genre.	2000-05-25
US	50980889	RAM036R0H0TQ	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	56	64	N	N	Gritty and heart-rending fantasy	I had never heard of Robin Hobb until a friend recommended her.  Having just finished this trilogy, I am immediately ranking her as one of my favorite fantasy authors.  Her characterization of FitzChivalry is  breathtaking - one of the best-written characters I've ever read.  I  usually don't much care for first person narratives but this is definitely  the exception to that rule.<br />This, the third book of the trilogy, kept me  turning pages at an incredible rate.  However, like many of the other  reviewers, I was disappointed in the ending.  Not because it was depressing  - on the contrary, stories in real life don't always have happy endings, so  why do books always have to? - but because it seemed rushed.  All of the  mysteries that were built up over the course of the trilogy (the  Elderlings, the Raiders and Forged Ones) were suddenly summed up and solved  in just a few pages, leaving me thinking, &quot;That was it?&quot;<br />But  regardless of my dislike for the ending, this trilogy was fantastic and I  am looking forward to reading more of Robin Hobb's work.	2000-05-22
US	50980889	R15CKRBI0T2TUL	0345384466	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	fascinating...	This book was kind of hard to get into at first, but it's worth sticking it out!  The story of the Mayfair witches is woven with a rich history rooted in the southern city of New Orleans.  Anne Rice has created a  fascinating geneology that provides the background for the plot - in fact,  my favorite part of the entire book is the middle section, which is the  Talamasca's (remember them from the Vampire books?) records and history of  the Mayfair family and their ties to the mysterious being known as Lasher.   The characters were well-developed and their relationships completely  enthralling. The cliffhanger ending made me run out and buy the next two  books in the trilogy.  They were okay, but I didn't enjoy them half as much  as this first one.  Definifely recommended.	2000-05-12
US	50980889	R3BD43OWX0809N	0061051179	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another masterpiece by a truly great writer	Once again, Guy Gavriel Kay confirms my opinion that he is one of the best fantasy writers out there today.  <br />Crispin the mosaicist is an unusual character, which is what makes him so interesting to read about.  He's a blunt, contrary man who lives to do the opposite of what people expect of  him.  His gruff exterior conceals a vulnerable heart that was dreadfully  wounded when his family was taken from him by plague, and all that is left  to him is his art.  He seizes an unexpected opportunity to leave his life  behind and travels to the far-off city of Sarantium into a world of  politics, intrigues, and tensions, where nothing is as it appears on the  surface.<br />Kay's writing is lyrical, and the world he has created, although  it is based on the society of long-ago Byzantium, is unique and new.  I  can't wait to read the sequel.  Previous fans of Kay's work will definitely  enjoy this one, and if you haven't read any of his books, this would be a  good one to start with.  Immensely satifying and written beautifully.	2000-05-01
US	50980889	RFBRL4NVU2W4C	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Thought-provoking and real	John Irving has this incredible ability to create complex, interesting characters and place them in the most unusual situations.  I was completely fascinated by this book.  From the perennial orphan Homer, to the misnamed  Melony, to the ether-addicted and opinionated Dr. Larch, all of the  characters were very real and very different.  You understand their  motivations and emotions, even if you don't always agree with them.<br />One  thing that I really liked about this book is that although it dealt with  many important social issues (such as abortion and racism), it was never  preachy.  Rather than coming right out and blatantly stating his opinions,  Irving skillfully weaves the issues into the plot for the reader to  interpret.<br />I have not yet seen the movie, and after reading the book I'm  not quite sure that I want to because I know that the complexity of the  plot and characters can in no way be expressed in a few hours of film.  I  would definitely recommend this book.	2000-04-26
US	50980889	RZGBSK8G6490M	0553277537	468229732	Dandelion Wine (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beautiful	Although Bradbury is known mostly as a science fiction writer, this book is not really SF at all.  It's pure poetry.  The essence of summer poured between two covers - the way that dandelion wine is the essence of summer  bottled up for the cold dark times of year when you need it most.   Bradbury's prose is so beautiful that I had to stop and read most  paragraphs twice so that I could savor every detail.  This is a book that  oozes warmth and happiness and yes, a little bit of sorrow, but that's what  makes it real.	2000-03-20
US	50980889	R1WKYI27SEKLFS	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Unnerving	Wow.  This is one of those books that just reaches into the core of your being and shocks you.  The drug-induced deterioration of Fred/Bob Arctor is extremely well written - the way that the narration actually disintegrates  at the same rate as the character - makes it more real.  None of the  characters turn out to be who you thought they were, and the ending is  immensely satisfying.	2000-03-06
US	50980889	R2S7PQ2OZR7RP1	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chilling	To you reviewers who had to read this book for school and hated it: I too was forced to read it when I was in 8th grade, and felt the same way about it that you do.  I thought it was the dumbest most boring book I'd ever  read.<br />I'm telling you now: wait 5 or 6 years, and pick this book up  again.  I promise you will enjoy it.  It's a story of an oppressed society  and a man with the courage to try and break free.  Please, give Farenheit  451 another chance.  You won't regret it.	2000-02-25
US	50980889	R1L16ETZ6181PK	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fast, enjoyable, memorable read	I have not read this book in a very long time, but I remember it as being a favorite from the first time that I picked it up at the age of 12 or so.<br />The book is about a group of students in a survival class who get stranded on the planet where they were supposed to be living for only a few weeks as a test.  The way their group evolves into a little society was very interesting (and not nearly as dark as what happens in a similar situation in The Lord of Flies).  I don't remember very many details, but do remember being completely enthralled.  Recommended.	2000-02-25
US	50980889	RI4KB1SGRKC3P	1558214089	794906466	Riverwalking: Reflections on Moving Water	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A refreshing collection of essays	The title of this book is what caught my eye - as a kid, I loved walking in rivers, feeling the water rushing against my skin - I still do.<br />Although there are plenty of rivers running through the essays in  this book, there is more to them than that.  My favorite essay is the  chapter dedicated to the merits of &quot;poking around&quot;.  It gives a  fantastic justification of spending a day doing absolutely nothing - my  kind of day!  <br />This is the kind of book that you read in more than one  sitting.  When you're stuck somewhere you don't want to be - when you're  feeling stifled - when all you want to do is escape somewhere to your own  little universe - that's the time to read a chapter of this book.  If you  can't get away to spend a weekend in the mountains, reading these essays is  the next best thing.	2000-02-25
US	50980889	R1KPXC70Z1T7NK	0886774543	261091023	Oathbreakers (Vows and Honor, Book 2)	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Tarma and Kethry take on the Royal house of Rethwellan	This book, with the possible exception of &quot;Storm Breaking&quot; (it's very close!), is my favorite out of all of Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar books.  Tarma and Kethry are great characters, and the plot has all of the elements that make a good fantasy: treachery, revolution, vengeance, magic,  and a little bit of romance.  You don't necessarily have to read  &quot;Oathbound&quot; before reading this, it could easily stand alone -  however, I'd recommend it as it gives a good introduction to the characters  and their backgrounds.	2000-02-24
US	50980889	R1A8HSY8NKCEZN	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A new take on gender identity	What would life be like if the most important facet of your identity just didn't exist?  This is one of those books that totally blows your mind!  I once heard someone say that the most interesting phrase in this book is:  &quot;The King was pregnant.&quot;  What sounds like a bizarre, impossible  statement to us is standard in this strange society that Le Guin has  created.  Previous reviewers have complained about the lack of story - it's  not the plot that's important in this book.  It explores issues of gender,  of love (can there be romance without gender?), of estrangement, of  sociology.  Fantastic.	2000-02-17
US	50980889	R1491S5IR96MBZ	0812534018	893909847	Nemesis: Indigo Book One	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a fantastic series!	I read these books probably five or six years ago when a friend lent them to me.  Of course, since they are so hard to get a hold of, she made me give them back to her right away, so I only got the chance to read them  once.  I have been dying to get my hands on my own copies ever since.   Although each book could probably stand alone, I recommend that you read  them all, in order.  Indigo is an intriguing heroine, a headstrong princess  who inadvertently makes a terrible mistake and is forced to spend decades  setting things right again.  Although these books are very hard to find, I  highly recommend you put in the effort - they are worth it!	2000-02-15
US	50980889	R2ALMWQ6KNNBQP	0451453328	469239951	Song for Arbonne	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Better with more readings	I just finished reading this book for the third time, and I find that I enjoy it more each time that I read it.  The first time I read it, I liked it, but didn't think that it measured up to Kay's classic Fionavar  Tapestry.  I think the reason I didn't like it as much the first time is  that the reader is kept in the dark too long about the reason for the big  feud between the Dukes Bertran de Talair and Urte de Miraval.  It's kind of  hinted at in the prologue, but you don't know anything concrete until at  least halfway through the book.  Re-reading the book, I already knew the  big secret, so I was able to enjoy the story without killing myself trying  to figure it out (of course any good story needs some element of suspense,  but this one kept you in the dark a little too long).<br />I also found it a  little disconcerting when Kay would suddenly switch his narration style to  present tense for the passages that took place in Gorhaut.  It's an  interesting writing style, and it does add to the feel of the scene, but  the switching back and forth between past and present tense sometimes made  it hard to read (particularly in the scene where the characters meet and  Kay changes tense almost mid-paragraph).<br />These negative comments aside -  I still have to give this book five stars!  The world Kay has created is  very detailed and lovingly described.  The characters are unique and their  complicated relationships are enthralling.  Blaise is the perfect  protagonist, someone who is lost and ends up re-discovering himself in ways  that he never would have expected.  Even the minor characters become  important, and the ending is absolutely beautiful.  Guy Gavriel Kay is one  of the finest writers out there today and I would recommend his books to  anyone.	2000-02-11
US	50980889	R1EJT9FJQZMQY2	0380793539	234867967	Daughter of Troy	Books	3	32	35	N	N	A look at Ancient Troy	This book was immensely entertaining.  It's a retelling of Homer's classic epic &quot;The Iliad&quot;, through the eyes of Achilles' slave/concubine, Briseis.  The story is the same enduring tale that has become a classic  over the years.  However, it sometimes reads like a cheesy romance novel.   In my opinion, there were too many sex scenes that were really not related  to the plot.  I like a good sex scene as much as anyone, but it's a bit too  much in this book, which is the reason it only gets three stars from me.   <br />If you are interested in this book, I would recommend that you instead  check out Marion Zimmer Bradley's &quot;The Firebrand&quot;, which is a  similar novel in that it's a retelling of the Iliad through the eyes of a  minor character  - Kassandra (Cassandra), Hector's sister - only the  writing is much better.	2000-02-10
US	50980889	R136NILSH9Z2XB	0192833952	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	A sweeping tale of vengeance	This is a fantastic book!  It helps to have some background in French history (of the Napoleonic era, to be specific) to really understand what's going on.  This is the tale of Edmond Dantes, a simple sailor, a good man,  who is wrongfully accused of a crime he didn't commit on the day of his  wedding, and ends up spending 14 years in jail for it.  He finally escapes  and through complicated planning and patience, manages to complete his  vengeance against those who were responsible for his imprisonment.  It's a  very complicated book, not an easy read, but worth every minute.  A true  classic.	2000-02-05
US	50980889	RPF24U0DWB1U0	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a crazy ride	Be warned, this is not serious science fiction.  Not at all.  With that said, it's one of my favorite books.  It's silly, it's funny, and it's strangely enthralling.  The plot is almost irrelevant to the charm of the  book.  The next two books are just as great, although the last two  (&quot;So Long and Thanks for All the Fish&quot; and &quot;Mostly  Harmless&quot;) are not as funny.  My recommendation is to stop after  &quot;Life, the Universe, and Everything.&quot;	2000-01-28
US	50980889	R2R6IWBJ62TYKL	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Brilliant	This is one of those books that really makes you think.  It asks the question of what it really means to be human.  Is it better to accept the bad with the good, or to do away with both and live in contented ignorance?   In his own twisted fashion, Vonnegut makes you realize all that is worth  saving in this world.	1999-12-26
US	50980889	R2HE5O1PM84COP	0345418018	680934194	The World According to Garp (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Truly bizarre!	I don't know how John Irving did it - he created an improbably weird cast of characters, that have stranger adventures than you would ever imagine, and somehow made it all totally believable.    Although Garp is the title  character, many of the other characters are developed just as well, most  notably his mother, Jenny Fields (who I found to be even more intersting  than Garp himself).  And what other author would even think to make a major  character out of a transsexual ex-football player (who, by the way, is  played in the movie by an absolutely hilarious John Lithgow)?  &quot;The  World According to Garp&quot; will alternately make you laugh and cry.   It's a roller-coaster ride that is impossible to put down.	1999-12-26
US	50980889	R8FB4XJU21VP0	0345418956	392304217	Jurassic Park	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A thousand times better than the movie	&quot;Jurassic Park&quot; the movie was a thriller.  It was one long chase scene.  It was a chase scene with some of the most amazing special effects I've ever seen, but just a chase scene nonetheless.<br />&quot;Jurassic  Park&quot; the book is so much more.  The basic plot is the same - that  wasn't changed for the movie version (although some details are different).   The book is very scientific, but not so much that someone fairly ignorant  of genetics couldn't understand it.  Most importantly, it is a fable about  the ethics of genetic engineering and about the terrifying consequences of  Man playing God.  It's about what happens when an idealist refuses to give  up his vision, even when it becomes clear that his dream is not feasible.   It's about the depths that greedy men can sink to.  And the ending is just  fantastic - chilling.  An ending which, by the way, was totally changed in  the movie version, so even if you have seen the movie, you don't know how  it ends.  Crichton's writing perfectly conveys the intensity of emotions,  and the characters are well-developed and real.  If you liked the movie,  you'll like the book even better.  If you DIDN'T like the movie - give the  book a chance.  It's completely different.	1999-12-26
US	50980889	R1CYP1BI3O40KA	0679410465	778351106	The Master and Margarita (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	weirdly entertaining	A great big thank you to Professor White, in whose 20th Century Russian Prose class I read this book!  The book has many levels - and even if you look no further than the very surface, it is a bizarre yet hilarious story.   If you put more thought into the reading, it delves in to themes of good  and evil and all that good stuff (and thankfully, Bulghakov is much more  eloquent than I am).  It was several years ago that I read this so I don't  remember many of the details, but I do remember that it was my favorite  piece that we read in the course.  I lent my copy to a friend and I never  got it back, which is too bad because I'm dying to read it again.  One of  these days when I can justify spending the money on a book I've already  read, I'll get myself another copy.  Until then, I'll just leave you with  my highest recommendation!  By the way, you do not at all need an extensive  background in all things Russian in order to read this book.  I am a  scientist, not a historian, and I loved it!	1999-12-24
US	50980889	R37B6TMWER5PG0	0886774225	60207093	Flight of the Raven (Chronicles of the Cheysuli Book Seven)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	My favorite out of the eight Cheysuli books	Jennifer Roberson has written a fantastic, sweeping series that spans generations.  It is so much more than cliche sword and sorcery fantasy.  It's about moral struggles, genocide, and prejudice.  This installment is  my favorite of the series because the main character, Aidan, is such an  interesting person with an unusual lir (animal familiar).  His inner  struggle to find his place in the destiny of his people is so important  that he is gently prodded along by several of the Cheysuli deities.  The  history of what has happened in the series so far is revisited in Aidan's  encounters with the spirits of his long-dead royal kin.  <br />One thing -  don't even bother trying to read this book unless you have read the first  six.  Briefly: Book One, Shapechangers, is an enchanting introduction to  the world of the Cheysuli; Book Two, The Song of Homana, was kind of slow  and hard to get through for me, but thank goodness I did because the rest  of the series is so fantastic;  Book Three, The Legacy of the Sword, covers  the struggle of Donal, the first Cheysuli Mujhar, to be accepted by the  people he must rule;  Book Four, Track of the White Wolf (which is my  second favorite of the series), is about Niall, who hovers between the  world of the Cheysuli and the Homanans without really being a true part of  either one;  Book Five, A Pride of Princes, is about the terrible  experiences at the hands of the malevolent Ihlini that cause Niall's three  sons to come of age;  Book Six, Daughter of the Lion, switches gears and  focuses on Keely, Niall's daughter, and her fight to accept the womanhood  she's tried to ignore;  Book Eight, A Tapestry of Lions, is the magnificent  conclusion of the series with the fulfillment of the prophecy coming in an  unexpected fashion and one of the best endings I've ever read in a fantasy  series.	1999-12-15
US	50980889	R3C7LKMWUWDE28	0345362861	11248610	Dragonsdawn (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The story of the settling of Pern	I absolutely love this book.  The first time I read it, I found it hard to get past the opening section - I wanted to read about PERN, not a bunch of people in a spaceship, even if they were named Benden.  But the technical  mumbo-jumbo of the colonization is worth fighting through for that first  breath of Pernese air!  The initial settlement - the first Threadfall - the  genetic engineering that created the dragons we know and love - and the  volcano that finally forced the settlers to leave the southern continent -  this book gives a fascinating background to Dragonflight et al.  Make sure  to read this one before reading &quot;All the Weyrs of Pern&quot;.	1999-12-15
US	50980889	R1EE7JZNZQC824	0553295411	618387900	Fire Sea (The Death Gate Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The most important book of the series	Dragon Wing was okay - Elven Star was good - I picked up Fire Sea more out of curiosity than out of a burning desire to find out what happened next.  This is the book that finally got me swept into the series.  More is  learned about the history of the sundered realms, and the characters of  Haplo and Alfred are developed further.  I think the most interesting thing  about this series is that it is, at least initially, written mainly from  the point of view of those who would normally be considered &quot;the bad  guys&quot; - the Patryns.  Eventually, of course, good and bad get all  muddled up as the *true* evil is discovered, and although this doesn't  really happen until later on in the series, it begins in Fire Sea.  The  book is full of revelations that don't really make that much sense until  the later books, but that give you enough of a taste of what's going on to  get you completely hooked.  It is a dark, macabre story, that holds a faint  promise of redemption.	1999-12-14
US	50980889	R3VB1O5HOSW2HJ	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I had mixed feelings about this one...	I am very ambivalent about Terry Goodkind's writing.  On one hand, the world that he has created is very well-developed, the plot is interesting, and the characters are very likeable.  On the other hand, the writing is  just not that great.  This is especially evident in the dialogue, which  just doesn't read like real people talk.  As I was reading this book, I was  both enthralled by the plot and at the same time, put off by the flat,  unrealistic way the characters spoke.  Definitely not among the top ranks  of fantasy series - but to Terry Goodkind's credit, I was interested enough  to buy the second book so I could find out what happened next!	1999-12-13
US	50980889	R3BV0U6E1T4IG9	0446359408	827868868	Sybil: The true and extraordinary story of a woman possessed by sixteen separate personalities	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A riveting true story	It is difficult to find the right words to describe this book.  It's haunting, it's fascinating, it's hard to read but at the same time impossible to put down.  I had to keep reminding myself that it was  actually a true story, and not a work of fiction from some horror writer's  twisted mind.  Totally spellbinding.	1999-12-07
US	50980889	RQKQI698WQ4Y4	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	fascinating	To me, the most incredible thing about this book is that it was written by a man!  The author writes so well from a female viewpoint that I had to keep reminding myself that the book was not written by a woman.  Learning  about the whole geisha culture was extremely interesting, and the plot is  well-developed.  I was slightly put off by the ending - it is not quite as  believable as the rest of the book.  However, that did not at all diminish  my enjoyment of the novel.  I wouldn't hesitate to recommend &quot;Memoirs  of a Geisha&quot; to anyone, male or female.  A great book.	1999-12-04
US	50980889	R3JUWJFG9Y0X9R	0679406395	13081295	Monsters Of The Sea: The History, Natural History, and Mythology of the Oceans' Most Fantastic Creatures	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An intruiging look into the mysteries of the sea!	Richard Ellis has written a fantastic book!  It is thorougly researched and accurate, yet does not read like a textbook.  The chapters are the perfect length - long enough to cover the subject in detail, but not so  long that the reader loses interest.  Reading this makes you realize how  little we landbound humans know about what really goes on in the depths of  the sea.  Can we really say conclusively that there is no such thing as a  sea serpent?  Ellis presents every viewpoint - could have been a whale,  could have been a squid...but maybe...who knows?	1999-12-04
US	50980889	R14ENV4JB6WQJ6	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A classic tale of the ocean	Moby Dick is one of my favorite works of literature.  It is a book about madness and obsession and humanity, combined with a fascinating history of whaling.  I do realize that many readers may not be as enthralled as I was  by the long passages about whales and whaling methods that interrupt the  plot - I hold a degree in marine science so I must admit that I'm a bit  biased.  But even if you are not so interested, I think that it's worth  fighting through those chapters for the sake of the story.	1999-12-03
US	50980889	R1RSXUMBOLM3JH	0374105200	425090332	Annals of the Former World	Books	5	11	12	N	N	fascinating!	for anyone with an interest in geology, this book is definitely a must-read.  i was first introduced to john mcphee's writing in an intro geology course in college.  we were supposed to read just a few chapters of  &quot;basin and range&quot;.  i was so enthralled that i read the entire  book and, as soon as i heard of this collection, went out and bought it.  i  am still working my way through it (as much as i'm enjoying it, it is not a  fast read).  you don't have to have an extensive earth science background  to read this book, although a basic understanding of geology is helpful.  i  recommend this book to anyone with a curiosity about the world around (and  beneath!) us.	1999-11-30
US	50980889	R3OH1J4GFZS3YR	0886777550	534935485	Storm Breaking (The Mage Storms, Book 3)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	uplifting!	as someone who has spent way too much money on mercedes lackey books (yes, i own all 21 of the valdemar books, and will undoubtedly be buying owlknight when it comes out in paperback), reading this book (again and  again!) makes me feel justified in my purchases!  no, of course she is no  tolkein.  but the world she has created is so vivid and her characters so  real, that you can't help becoming totally absorbed.  many authors will  write a short series, and then when the books become popular, keep writing  more and more and eventually end up writing ridiculous books that are  nowhere near as good as the first ones were (case in point: the dragonlance  series - the chronicles and legends trilogies are absolutely fantastic but  the never-ending sequels, in my opinion, are just plain stupid.  of course,  they're by different authors.  but i digress.  back to mercedes lackey).   where was i?  oh yes.  mercedes lackey is not like that.  in fact, i think  her writing has gotten better and better as the series progressed.  i did  find it hard to get through the long passages about what's going on in the  empire - they're the bad guys, you want to know what the characters you  care about are doing!  <br />SPOILER HERE - STOP IF YOU HAVENT READ THIS BOOK.   <br />but in the end the conclusion was definitely satisfying and uplifting.   that last line, about karal gaining vision without sight (or whatever the  exact line is), makes me choke up every time, especially since karal is in  a tie with tarma for my favorite character of all the 21 books.<br />ok, this  review has ended up being a bit long and confused, and i'm sorry - anyway -  i highly recommend this book.  that's all.	1999-11-05
US	50980889	RU04TUT7EG7J6	0886777178	870845551	Crown of Shadows (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A magnificent conclusion	I loved &quot;Black Sun Rising&quot;, and so was ecstatic when the second book, &quot;When True Night Falls&quot;, came out.  I was slightly disappointed in it.  But to C.S. Friedman's credit, she had made me care so much about the characters that I had to buy the third book so I could find  out what happened to them.  Thank goodness I did!  Although this book is  more confusing than the other two (I had to read it twice before I really  figured out what was going on), it is worth working your way through the  plot twists in order to get to the stunning ending.  The character  development is just fantastic, the way that Damien and Tarrant twine around  each other's souls, coming out of the relationship changed beyond belief,  and ultimately are led to redemption, each in their own way.  I'd give it 5  stars, except for the confusing plot - I shouldn't have had to read it  twice to understand it.  But it was more than worth the effort.  Highly  recommended.	1999-10-12
US	50980889	R2R62YJP7H513D	0451451805	455724276	The Darkest Road (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	a stunning masterpiece	No matter how many times I re-read this trilogy (and that number is more than i can count), it never fails to move me to tears - something that does not occur very often with me. The characters are so real and vibrant that you feel everything that they feel. There are several scenes that always give me chills: at Calor Diman, at Khath Meigol.<br />In this last book of the trilogy we really see how the characters have grown and changed; Dave Martyniuk in particular has come a long way from the somewhat angry and uncertain law student he was at the start of 'The Summer Tree'.  Unlike some books which are never quite as magical after the first reading, this one and the other two of the trilogy get better every time I read them. Sweeping, majestic, imaginative, and beautiful.	1999-10-12
US	50980889	R3KE2CZTLCSKUM	0451451384	984290410	The Summer Tree (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	this book deserves all the stars in the sky!!	the first time i read this book, i was in high school, just starting to get into fantasy.  it didn't do anything for me and i didn't bother with the rest of the trilogy.  several years later, i found it, getting dusty on  my bookshelf, and decided to give it another try.  within 20 pages i was  completely hooked and could not imagine what i missed that first time.  i'm  not usually a big fan of books that integrate our world with a fantasy  world - i think fantasy is better when it's set apart on its own;  it's  somehow less plausible when the author tries to give a world of magic a  place in what we call reality.  but this trilogy is the glorious,  magnificent exception to that rule.  finishing the book for the second  time, finally understanding what all the fuss was about, i just about ran  to the bookstore to buy the other two.  now i've read them all more times  than i can count and i cry every time.  from the hedonistic garden country,  cathal, to the majestic kingdom of brennin, to the harsh plains of the  dalrei, the world of fionavar is breathtakingly real and heartbreakingly  beautiful.  kay weaves a spell with his words.  reading many of these  reviews, i have to disagree with those who prefer kay's later works.  i  have read both &quot;tigana&quot; and &quot;a song for arbonne&quot;, and  while both are above average, neither comes close to the majesty of the  fionavar tapestry.  true, they are both somewhat more polished.  but the  sheer rawness of the writing in the fionavar tapestry is what makes it so  powerful.  none of the edges are blunted, the emotions bite deeply and ring  true, more so than in his other novels.<br />READ THIS BOOK.  i guarantee  you'll run to the bookstore to buy the other two.	1999-10-12
