US	50994265	R6YORSPEOLY3T	0446532436	967980395	True Believer	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Disappointing	I took this book out from the library because people told me that this is a must read. Why? I did not read his other works but I am sure it is not as good. It starts out with Jeremy Marsh who works for Scientific American. His job is to debunk  supernatural myths. A woman named Doris wrote from her hometown, Boone Creek, North Carolina about mysterious lights in Ceder Creek Cemetery. Jeremy goes to this quaint little town and appears to stick out like a sore thumb. Doris owns the restaurant Herbs a very popular hangout for the locals. Jeremy quite the celebrity.  <br /> <br />However, Sparks is taking it to the extreme by depicting how pure and wonderful this remote town is and how NYC is evil. Yes, NYC can be rough at times but all of Boone Creek is wonderful? C'mon! It takes a while in fact almost to the middle of the book when the love interest Lexie Darnell, Doris' granddaughter, takes notice of Jeremy. She is the town librarian and apparently, most men in the town have the hots for her. She is independent, bright, and very coy. It turns out that she lived in NYC for a while. Does this mean when a woman is independent that they come from a crowded city?  <br /> <br />I had to stop reading because I expected a romance. There was no momentum. I wanted more than details. I wanted action! Why should it take half the book until Lexie is even polite to Jeremy? The characters interactions were never flushed out. How could we relate to the book, if it does not seem realistic to us? I do not like the broad strokes that divide Boone Creek and NYC. There is both good and bad in small town life and big city living. Oh well.   <br /> <br />I gave it 3 stars because it was a good attempt at a love story. I thought that it would be like a Danielle Steel or Nora Roberts novel.	2005-06-14
US	50994265	R233Y8Z7CWU0Q5	0670033944	748214467	The Mermaid Chair: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I never wanted it to end!	What a beautiful book! I liked it even more than The Secret of Bees. The way that she describes the water, the island, and the people in this book are sheer poetry. I actually saw what she was describing. It is hard to believe that she made most of the stuff up including the island-Egretts Island.  <br /> <br />The book begins with Jessie having an ordinary, comfortable, and predictable life. She has a daughter (Dee) that is in college and Jessie has no career. She started out as an artist and for a long time did nothing with her talents. Her husband, Hugh, is a Psychiatrist and treats her like a child in a way.  Jessie gets a call that her mother has lopped off one of her fingers with a meat cleaver. Her mother lives on a small island and Jessie lives in Atlanta. She does not care to see her mother who has changed since her father's death. Now Jessie has to return to the life that she left behind and resolve matters with her mother. Both she and her mother changed after her father's death. Jessie always blamed herself just as little children do. Now, Jessie has to confront this ghost too.  <br /> <br />In the process she meets a man who is a monk about to take his final vows (Brother Thomas also known as Whit). She falls in love with him and he does with her too. The description of their love is passionate and romantic. I was really routing for these two! The way that they loved was really spiritual and intense. Soon Jessie forgot about her husband. However, Jessie was slowly gaining her independence and the ability to rely on herself without anyone else to take care of her. Does Jessie choose her husband or Whit, The Monk in the end?  Why did her mother, Nelle, use a meat cleaver on her finger? To find out read the book! The ending is not a huge surprise but it does depict that there are no clear cut, absolute, and perfect relationships. While I cried towards the end, I loved the realism and the description of everything in the book.  <br /> <br />I found Jessie to be much more of a realistic character and easier to relate to then Lily in The Secret Life of Bees. However, I can see how much research Sue Monk Kidd puts into her novels. I look forward to reading many more of her masterpieces.	2005-06-04
US	50994265	R1L9SA60HFS7HU	0399152083	55533213	Survivor in Death	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not Her Best But Entertaining!	I have been a fan of the \\"In Death\\" Series written as J.D. Robb. I wish every police officer could be as tireless as Eve Dallas is.  <br /> <br />The novel contained the usual cast: Peabody, Summerset, Roarke, McNab, Baxter, Feeney, Trueheart and others. Cops fear her and are very dedicated because of her.  <br /> <br />This story is about a family (The Swishers) and how they were massacred in bed at 2 in the morning. This included the housekeeper, Inga. Nobody knows why they were murdered but there is a survivor. The daughter who got out of bed for an Orange Fizzy even though she was not supposed to. Her friend was sleeping over (Linnie) and the murderers thought that she was Nixie Swisher. Now, Nixie Swisher loses her family for some unknown reason. Eve takes her home with her for witness protection. She does not have any maternal instincts. Roarke is a better caregiver. Summerset is a natural at taking care of Nixie and for some reason, Nixie wants to be around Eve Dallas.  <br /> <br />I liked the book because it involved a new facet for Eve Dallas. The possibility of having a child with Roarke. It brought back a lot of painful memories for her and Roarke but it would be an interesting twist.  <br /> <br />I only gave the book 4 stars because it went into Eve's and Roarke's past ad nauseum. I was getting tired of Eve barking at everyone especially Peabody and Summerset. I should expect this but it seems to be the same for every book. <br /> <br />I recommend this to people who have never read the \\"In Death\\" Series. The book is easy to pick up because it fills you in about the background of the characters so, you will not be lost. It is a quick read that is entertaining. I look forward to more of her \\"In Death\\" Books.	2005-06-02
US	50994265	R14S0X8J4AY6UE	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Am I odd?	I checked this book out from the library. I liked this book because it was similar to the Stephanie Plum series. I like the bumbling main character and the handsome man. There were many sexual innuendos. It seems that there is always a guy dressed in black. This time the guy was a bad one not like Ranger.  <br /> <br />Evanovich does not go much into Barney's background except for her working in her father's garage, growing up with Bill, and mention of her employment. I do not understand why she has the nickname Barney. Obviously, Evanovich liked the Flintstones. LOL!  <br /> <br />I do find the relationship between Hooker and Barney funny and not a typical romance story. I like the quirkiness of the story. I like the fact that the women are amateurs and have not only obstacles to overcome but they are not good at getting over the hurdles.  <br /> <br />I could not put the book down because it is typical Janet Evanovich style. I liked the book because while it is not realistic; it is entertaining and funny. Sometimes a book is not realistic but meant for pure fun.  <br /> <br />I recommend this book but definitely read the Stephanie Plum series!  <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
US	50994265	R1ZXDXSUV1OCRI	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	3	0	6	N	N	Snore!	I checked this book out from the library. I am so grateful that I did not buy it. This was the first novel of his that I read. I usually wait until they become movies. I know his popularity so, I decided to get into his books.  <br /> <br />Perhaps, I am not used to his style but then again, I do not like it. I love suspenseful and surprising books but ee gads! There was nothing surprising about it. I knew the fused fingers were going to be a major clue in the story.  <br /> <br />In the beginning Koontz went into Jimmy Tock's character description ad nauseum. I kept trying not to fall asleep while reading it. I wanted to find out the book was one that I could not put down. I kept reading waiting for the pace to pick up but it did not. The ending was only slightly better than the rest of the book. However, I had to endure the agony of reading this book to get there.  <br /> <br />This is just my opinion. I know that the other interviewers do not agree with me but as I said, it is just my opinion!  <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
US	50994265	R3HFPYJQ3U44BY	0743266854	316666947	Citizen Girl	Books	1	3	6	N	N	ZZZZZZZZZZZZZ!	I got this book based upon the critics praises. They mentioned the book was funny. I did not see that at all in the book. It was the first book since my social studies textbooks that I had to force myself to stay awake.  <br /> <br />Yes, I can identify with Girl's struggles as a twenty-something in the city. However, this book was a struggle to read!  <br /> <br />I do not care how bad a boss is, sexual harrassment is illegal! Jeffrey, one of the bosses, made her wear a swimsuit and kept touching her or holding her. He even talked about her pubic hair! What nerve! Is anyone this desperate to make a boss happy? I think not! This is something that I would have put my foot down! Show some assertiveness! Her bosses were certifiable! Guy made Doris look like a saint!  <br /> <br />What was the deal with Buster? Telling her to keep the job that is taking away from their relationship? We never get to see the relationship or the lack of it flushed out. How come Jack in the beginning was able to control his sister? <br /> <br />I thought that the ending was going to have some sense of closure or have a happier ending. I was left confused and it left me having more questions than answer.  <br /> <br />While I did not read Nanny's first book, the second book bombed from my viewpoint. There are so many other good books that readers can relate to for twenty somethings. Go read them!  <br /> <br />	2004-12-14
US	50994265	R39OZ0W4U8E7CA	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	7	N	N	YEAH! Another one well done!	I love these Stephanie Plum novels. I keep wishing that Stephanie would choose between Ranger and Morelli. However, Ranger is the tall, dark, and handsome. Stephanie is sexually very attracted to him. Hey, what is not to like about him? Then there is Morelli while very hot and sexually attractive too, he is more level headed. He is more realistic and wants to get married to her. One problem, she will not quit her job. I guess she loves being in danger.  <br /> <br />Lula is the most hysterical character and Janet Evanovich does a great job describing her and flushing her out. Connie was used a little more in the story for example, the kidnapping. I will not say anymore. I do not want to spoil the fun!  <br /> <br />Stephanie is a real good doer this time helping Carol Cantrell and her Fritos addiction. What is not to like about her? LOL! Then Sally Sweet is reintroduced to add a different element to the story.  <br /> <br />Once again another car is destroyed by a fire and a couple of others are ruined with bullet holes and grafitti. She definitely should rely on mass transit! LOL! Of course, the '53 blue Buick survives it all!  <br /> <br />The story begins to unravel towards the end. I stayed up until 3 a.m. to finish the book. I knew the reviews of the book going in and up until the end, I disagreed with the reviews. The  book spiraled downwards quickly. The ending came all of a sudden smack and how Ranger and Morelli.... Well, I do not want to ruin it anymore.  <br /> <br />However, the book is another good one from Janet Evanovich and it is definitely worth the read. I hope that she comes out with another one but has a better ending. Perhaps, she is running out of ideas? So, the adventure goes on and on.	2004-12-05
US	50994265	R2MQOQJC1Y04ET	075820440X	519677151	Calder Promise (Dailey, Janet)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Maybe, I am weird	This was the first Calder book that I have read. I did not even know that there were others. It is a novel that can stand on its own. It was in the 7 day books at the library so, I just grabbed it.  <br /> <br />First, I do agree with the other reviewers that Laura Calder comes across as shallow and self centered. To be honest if I was beautiful, rich, and manipulative, I am none of these things. SOB!  <br /> <br />I loved the romance and her description of the passion of Sebastian and Laura. It made me jealous that I could not find a man like Sebastian. However, I am annoyed with Sebastian (being annoyed with ficticious characters not healthy!). He let Laura walk all over him and treat him like dirt. I cannot believe any man in his right mind would tolerate that! I do not care how much a guy is in love that is beyond.  <br /> <br />Laura's \\"Aunt\\" Tara was very bossy and manipulative. She called Max Rutledge to get Boone to travel to the Triple C. If she loved Laura so much, why didn't she want to see her happy? Or better yet, talk to her first! If everyone dislikes her so much, howcome she is still in the picture at the end? Hmmm... Is this because I missed the other books in the series? Perhaps, but I do not think so.  <br /> <br />I think the Calders were especially polite to Sebastian considering Laura told them that she did not want him around. Could they be that easy going?  <br /> <br />What son, referring to Boone, would listen to his father like he does? He is an adult and make his own choices good or bad. If my father ever told me that I had to propose when I knew the person for a short time, I would definitely have something to say about it. After all, it is committment and she is just a prize to his father. Couldn't Laura just say no and be her own women.  <br /> <br />I do not understand why all of these romance novels have to make women so weak and dependent upon a man. I guess this is why they are romance novels. I gave it 3 stars because the romancepart swept me away.	2004-12-05
US	50994265	RTLWJDD3CYJ3P	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Blah! Blah!	I know that many people like this book and I am sorry that I disagree. This book is mentioned by others as a series that is compatable with Harry Potter. I do not believe this to be true. First, he is a boy with an evil and manipulative side. Harry Potter is a good person who is learning about his powers. Attemis does not have powers but has great intelligence and a faithful servant by his side. <br />I do not like how he captures a fairy to get a book that he wants. I think that it was horrible to treat his mother the way he did too. The fact that his father is not present and he seems to be glad about it; is a horrible thought. While he is a brilliant boy with thorough schemes; this book is not very imaginative because there is no relation to dragging in the reader based upon reality. <br />I know that this is for an older child but I have read so many interesting books from the children's section. This I did not feel compelled to read any more. I know that if I disagree then I do not have to read another story. I will not continue with the negative review to save myself from others who disagree with me. I just cannot accept this as a must read. This is why I gave it 3 stars because I do appreciate that a young boy does possess such an intelligence and that Coifer had an interesting code on the bottom of each page to be deciphered.	2003-12-02
US	50994265	R1Y03KWQ5ZUVMB	0399149392	363923998	Chesapeake Blue (Quinn Brothers)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	YEAH! Another one well done!	I am so happy that Nora Roberts decided to write another book that was about the youngest and newest member of the Quinn family. This is one of her best series. It depicts 3 men with different lifestyles, backgrounds, and personalities. They all come together to live in the house of Ray and Stella Quinn. They show the ultimate patience and love to turn these boys into wonderful and loving men. They all come together when Ray, the father, has a terrible car accident. It turns out to be fatal but before he dies he makes the 3 men promise to take care of the young boy, Seth. <br />I love the fact that each book in the series is about each man. The interesting and wonderful part is that she wrote another book to show how Seth, the newest member; how his life is changed for the better. It jumps forward in time to show the adult Seth and his lifestyle and personality. His horrible past is explained in the book as flashbacks. I do not feel that this book can stand alone because readers need to know about the other family members. <br />The men in the book are all strong figures and are father figures too. I love the fact that it shows the men as strong and passionate men with a dedication to the family named &quot;Quinn&quot;.They live together without any women to take care of the young boy. They story shows a slow progression as to how they in turn love the women who enter their lives for the better. <br />I did not think that another book was necessary because the end of the 3rd book left hope that everything was alright and had a happy ending. I am so glad that I was wrong. She took it beyond just hope for Seth. I am sorry that there will be no more books in the series. I love how she created the characters and the setting. You really feel like part of the book. This book is extremely romantic and passionate as are the others. I wish my husband was like that! LOL! This book leaves more than hope but fulfillment for all the characters. <br />I never re-read books but this is an absolute must re-read series. This is my favorite series from her. I have read a great many of her books but this is the best! I recommend that everyone should read the other books in the series and read this one to conclude the series in for a great in a happy ending for the Quinns.	2003-12-02
US	50994265	R3R9QDTYJ8JJGW	0515129925	292569912	Nora Roberts Chesapeake Bay Trilogy	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Heartwarming	I have read many other Nora Roberts books. I have loved all of them but this trilogy was the best! It took me into the lives of the Quinn brothers. No matter how different they were; they always stayed together because of their name, &quot;Quinn&quot;. <br />They all rush to the hospital to see their father, Ray Quinn, who was in a horrible car accident. As he lays dying in bed; he calls the 3 men to his bedside and makes them promise to take care of the young boy. They fulfilled their promise even though the men had lead different lifestyles. The description of the characters and the setting are absolutely wonderful! I can see the shores and imagine the men. I wish that real men could be like this! Their love for the women in their lives made me cry. It was that passionate! I love how each book represents each one of them. It delves into their different personalities and the backgrounds that they come from and explains how they were rescued by the kindness of the Quinns. <br />I normally read books and never pick them up again even other Nora Roberts books but this series is different. I want to enjoy their lives some more. I just wish that there were more of these stories. I reached the end and was sorry that it was over.	2003-12-02
US	50994265	R38R4ZKE2LJXPL	0439376459	724519045	Ricky Ricotta's Mighty Robot vs. The Stupid Stinkbugs from Saturn	Books	5	6	6	N	N	My kids loved it!	This was the first chapter book that I read to my kids ages 6.5 and 4. The name alone is funny. The kids wondered how a robot was invented by Ricky Ricotta. This was probably explained in one of the earlier ones. <br />It is truly a funny book as Dav Pilkey books are absolutely hysterical. All of his books seem to provide adult humor and loads of play on words. <br />The trouble starts when Ricky Ricotta is forced by his parents to go to his cousin Lucy's house. Her parents are overly loving to him. His uncle hurts Ricky with very strong handshakes. His aunt attacks with a million kisses. EEKK! Typical boy, to think of this as a real annoyance. His cousin only wants to play Princess and other girly games. She has 3 Jurassic pets. I am not sure about how they are alive. I guess this was in one of the earlier books too. <br />The stinkbugs live on Saturn a really dirty and polluted planet. It is ruled by a Stinkbug leader who cannot even live on such a disgusting planet. He decides that he will rule over the Planet Earth.<br />His cousin yells about her Rubies. This is when the stinkbugs want to capture her for the Rubies. They decide that she must be the ruler of Earth and they must have her. <br />Ricky Ricotta tries to come to the rescue with his friendly robot. This does not work and Ricky himself is captured. They feel doomed. Yet, Ricky turns out to be the hero and it is a happy ending for the readers. <br />My kids loved the short chapters. I thought that they would not like the books because of the black and white photos but it was simple like coloring pages without the colorings. The words in the story were easy enough for my kids to understand. It was a great adventure. I thought that my daughter, age 4, would be lost and not care about a main character that was a male mouse. She loved it. It was something different. They love Dav Pilkey books but this was an adventure book.<br />I must incompetent but this book comes with a section called Flip-O-Rama. I could not make it work. I think a kid can do a better job! My son loved the way the Stinkbug lost the battle. <br />I enjoyed the book and plan on reading the first books as this is the sixth. I am sure that it does not matter if we go to the first one after reading this one. Each book can be read separately without needing the previous books. Kids can relate to playing pretend, aunts and uncles who love too much, and who have bad guys and good guys. One more point, Ricky Ricotta wears glasses. So many books do not show glasses especially for the main character. <br />This is a must read and a great way to introduce chapter books. Enjoy!	2003-12-02
US	50994265	R3KXV24KNMXON5	0743236742	683639187	The Ultimate Weight Solution: The 7 Keys to Weight Loss Freedom	Books	4	9	11	N	N	It is interesting!	I like this book for several reasons. Dr. Phil has a great tell it like it is writing style. This makes it a more personable and interesting read. It is not like reading diet books that only depict statistics and case study after case study. The book contains self-assessments throughout the whole book. You begin to find out things that you never knew before or that were covered up by other bad habits. The price for these assessments (audits) make it worth it. It is not someone telling you to follow a program but someone who is recommending that you switch your behavior. Isn't that the whole secret behing wt. loss?<br />I agree that portion control, exercising, and good nutrition are the keys to losing wt. and being nutritionally sound. This also leads to positive attitudes too. However, this is not original in thought and this is just common sense. I do not agree that throwing out the recommended foods (many starches or carbs) is the answer. It shows that you cannot resist temptation and that if you did, you would pig out. One needs to learn how to stay away from these things with the alteration of behavior. Isn't this the point of the book to learn to eat properly and avoid self-defeating behaviors? It is not good to deprive the body of foods that it needs. Everything has to be in moderation but it is still needed. There is nothing left to eat if you throw out all the cold cuts, pasta, cereal, bread, ice cream, etc. What would I eat for breakfast, lunch, or dinner? Why should I keep lean meats but not cold cuts? Turkey Breast is a lean cold cut! This is not always practical based upon our individual needs. I have 2 children who are 6 and 4. They have very fast metabolisms and as kids they are supposed to eat more starches for energy. This balances their meals out. If I give them just proteins, they are going to miss out on spaghetti, cereal, peanut butter and jelly on bread. C'mon now! These are kids' meals. I do not have to have everything that they have but I amnot going to remove food that is needed for them. Dr. Phil said the kids will get used to it after a while. I will go so far as to say, that getting rid of junk food and fast food is a good thing. However, anything else is ridiculous. <br />I found the chapters very long winded and the book could have mentioned all the main ideas with less pages.<br />I am on Weight Watchers and a lot of what the book has; is part of the WW plan. They can work together easily. I do like his point that I do not have to measure anything. However, I need to measure according to Weight Watchers in order to gain portion control until I can make it a good habit without measuring. I agree with this. You have to learn to do it well by using a technique. After practice, it will be integrated into your everyday habits. <br />All in all, it is a decent book to assess why you are overweight and how to go about changing that problem. The book is geared for individuals and the way to help everyone lose weight using basic strategies and individualizing them. His personality definitely comes through in this book. I do know that this book is an interactive book and this is refreshing. I wish that he did not call it a weight loss situation. Usually, after you lose weight, you think that the book is not needed anymore or that you can resort to old eating habits. It should be called a nutritional book instead. People will view this as a lifestyle change instead of just weight loss. This is half the battle. <br />I recommend this book, if you need to analyze yourself for the hows, whys, wheres, whats, and whens for your weight loss problems. It can really work if you are honest in the self-assessments.	2003-10-17
US	50994265	R2CWTYRKOCWLVB	0553569848	993352464	The Doctors Book of Home Remedies II	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	Not a doctor but reads like one!	I bought this book after getting fed up taking myself to the doctor to hear that it is just a bad cold or something that could be remedied at home. I had the wonderful experience of letting myself get addicted to nasal decongestant. Not the saline spray! I know that my body can become resistant to antibiotics and the side effects are scary! <br />This book has all kinds of ailments. It is incredible how many alternatives there are to help with some of them. It is a book that does not just use herbs but items that you may have in your pantry. Who would have thought? <br />I love this book because he is not writing technical medical jargon. It is all there in laymen's terms to allow us to help ourselves and understand what we are reading. This book is well organized. The book contains the ailments in alphabetical order. You just need to know your ABC's. Their is an index in the back too. In every ailment that is in the book, there is a black box with important info. For example, he mentions that if it feels like this or you have a history of... go to the doctor. In this case he is being cautious and letting us know that the book is not going to help us with everything. There are times that we need to rely on a doctor. In this case, he is not trying to act like the end all and be all of information. This is one thing that disgusts me with other authors that write similar books. They are matter of fact that they will say if you have brain damage make a cup of tea and add eye of newt. It sounds far fetched but have you read some of the books that are out there? <br />Anyway, I highly recommend this book. It is a great little book: the middle of the night, on the weekend, at work, or on vacation it can hold you together until you can see a doctor. It can help you to cure it on your own. It has almost every ailment in there. It is definitely worth every penny. Here's to good health!	2003-05-17
US	50994265	R3JN373GZLNPTJ	0152802177	986840448	Stellaluna	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A Lesson To Be Learned	I bought this book after taking it out in the library. It has the most beautiful and sweet illustrations. Jannell Cannon really drives the point home that we should accept others for what makes them wonderfully unique. There is no casting judgment. Stellaluna's bird friends are curious, experimental, and enthusiastic. It describes the personality traits of young kids. This helps the author to connect with her readers to draw them into the book. Every page is a wonderful illustration that helps to support the story. My son who is almost 6 loves to look at the illustrations. He made up his own story based upon the pictures. Since then, he wants to hear the story over and over. He notices how the words are described the pictures. Not in these big words but he describes it well! The illustrations all look like they would make beautiful Hallmark cards or posters ready to frame. <br />I am so glad that she has other books available. She is one strong writer that instills morals and lessons with all of her books. I do recommend the hardcover book because the paperback edition does not have the same vivid colors. It is a story that will get used a lot and be enjoyed by many. Enjoy!	2003-05-17
US	50994265	R3IXLOBZFGFIJT	0764565176	265070623	Weight Watchers Make It in Minutes: Easy Recipes in 15, 20, and 30 Minutes	Books	4	45	46	N	Y	Not Just for WW members!	I bought this book because I am on Weight Watchers. I have other cookbooks of theirs but I needed something that made dinner quickly. It had to be able to satisfy the finicky eaters. I have two of them! I needed it to be a little more filling for my dear husband. I wanted to add some interesting recipes. Well, this book is the answer.<br />The sections of the book are divided into 15, 20, & 30. How wild is that? In front of these sections, it gives an index of what meals are in there. You can plan your menu out just by figuring out how much time you want to spend cooking. There are some meals that need more time. SORRY! My favorite part is that on the side of every recipe there is a list of ingredients so, you can just check what you have in the house. You can have an easier time shopping for the stuff too. There is nothing exotic in this book. This thrills me to death! I have timed some of the meals and they are pretty close. One small nitpicky thing is that there are just a few pictures. You do not see those mouthwatering pictures that draw you to the stove. The book is not glossy so, there is no resistance to damage. Another item that bothers me is that it is not organized into categories of food types such as: poultry, vegetarian, meat, etc. Itis organized by time and the food is just slopped into the section. <br />It has the points that you use for Weight Watchers. However, for those that are not on WW, it makes life easier by cooking less, using eye appealing recipes, and containing the nutritional info. It can help people that are just trying to eat healthier. <br />This is one of my two favorite Weight Watchers' books. You must buy this book. The positives definitely out weigh the negatives! Happy Eating!	2003-05-17
US	50994265	R1GKFOE9OJE0UC	0425189031	810324253	Portrait in Death	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Read	I bought this book not realizing that it was part of a series. It is a good book for reading independently from the other books. Yes, there are some details that are from the previous books but the reader can get some ideas of the happenings. It is a very suspenseful read. For me, it started out slow but I stuck with it. It became such a fast and exciting read that I could not put it down. I have not finished the book yet, I cannot wait to find out who is the killer. It is a book that keeps me guessing. I will have to read quickly to find out who is the killer. I love the fact that this is a book written in the future. This causes you to imagine the futuristic plot and scenery. Eve Dallas is a very serious and good police officer. She takes her work home with her. Her dear husband, Roarke, found out the truth about his real mother and this has him trying to find out all about his real past. Eve Dallas is very demanding and gets the people and resources that she needs quickly. Now if we could only get that in real life! I cannot wait to read the rest of the series. I love her other books under her name, Nora Roberts. No matter what book you read; she is one of the best writers with a lot of descriptive writing. She sets the stage so well that she makes her readers crave for more. The book flows without any confusing details. The writing is clear and concise. The book is never boring. If you are looking for a thrill ride, this book is for you.	2003-04-18
US	50994265	RI2OYED3A2G1O	002863716X	382917457	Weight Watchers New Complete Cookbook	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Yum Yum!	I bought this book when I started WW. It is so easy to follow and the pictures of the foods make my mouth water. The book is in categories such as: Pork, Fish, Pasta, Meat, Vegetarian, and Poultry. This makes it a snap to plan a menu for the week. For example, I say that I want a chicken dish and then go through the pages in that category. The only problem is that I want to make all the recipes. The recipes all come out well. My family loves them including, my 5 1/2 yr. old son and my 3 yr. old daughter who are very picky eaters. The ingredients are easy to find and many of them are in the house already. I found it interesting to find many recipes that were vegetarian and were not just beans or tofu. It makes yummy meals that are nutritious, colorful, tasty, filling, enjoyable for the whole family, and includes serving sizes, and nutritional content. <br />I recommend this book for WW members who are looking for new recipes that do not taste like cardboard or lack color. I have read different recipe books for dieters and yuck. Half the recipes were so time consuming and required exotic ingredients that I had to order them. My family did not like any of the recipes. However, the WW books are the exact opposite! <br />I use the cookbook nearly everyday. It is great to use for party ideas, buffets, breakfast, lunch, and dinners. I have entertained with some of these dishes. My guests thought they were made with the high fat and calories that I substituted low fat and low calories. This means that it truly is great! Go get this book today. Even if you are not a WW member it really helps to keep you eating smart and losing wt.	2003-04-10
US	50994265	R21JZPQVYL0FWL	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Swept Away	I bought the book for my mother. She told me how much she loved the book. I bought her the rest of the trilogy soon after that. She told me that it was a quick read. I began to think that I was missing something and used the look inside the book feature. At the end, of those few pages, I was saying where is the rest of this and I need more. I bought the books for myself and I have thoroughly enjoyed the trilogy. I was entranced the first chapter. I wanted to see Nell get away from the horrible Evan. I loved the romance and the hot and steamy moments that were so perfectly written. It was interesting to see some supernatural powers involved in the plot. I tried to read it in one night but my dear husband told me that the turning of the pages were driving him crazy so, I had to go to bed. I could not wait until I could crawl into bed and read it again. I am planning to read the whole trilogy again. I felt like I was living on Three Sisters Island. It was truly romantic.	2003-03-31
US	50994265	R3Q5KZRXIA3DBH	0152165428	836393791	Sleepy Bears	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Sweet dreams!	I purchased this book because I love Mem Fox's stories.  My daughter wanted the book because she has a love for teddy bears.  She is 3.  I wanted to get her a nice story of a bear for bedtime. I hit the jackpot!  I read the book and realized that this mother bear is not struggling with a bedtime routine to get the kids into bed. I also realized that the kids are not denying the fact that they are tired. We can all learn from this mother bear that to tell a story with the kids in it as the star is better than anything!  It is a wonderful way to get kids and parents to use their imaginations to send them to a place for sweet dreams. This is a winner of a book and my daughter is going to love it!	2002-11-10
US	50994265	RRMH9JXYW4KCA	0805011668	785995400	Tikki Tikki Tembo (An Owlet Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Treasure from the past!	I remember this book when I was in my early years! This was many eons ago! Anyway, I saw it as a recommended book for me and I could not believe that I forgot this fantastic book from my past. I was at first hesistant to introduce it to my kids. My son who is 5 thinks everything is dumb or boring. It must be a phase. He told me it was ok. However, my 3 year old daughter was trying to memorize the name. It definitely has a ryhthm to it. The second time I read they were very enthusiastic about it. Now, they want me to read it to them to help them learn the long name.  I am glad they think it is so much fun! I recommend this book highly for the ryhthm, repetitiveness that helps readers to progress.	2002-11-10
US	50994265	RU1QM4CDWC9W1	0590004840	955504327	50 Graphic Organizers for Reading, Writing & More (Grades 4-8)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Love It!	I must say that this is one of the better graphic organizer books that I have purchased. I have many of them but this one seems to be one of my tried and true graphic organizer books. I have used it for different stories, different subject areas, and different grade levels. This is a book that will not have time to collect dust! I recommend this book!	2002-10-28
US	50994265	R24V5RQ1L474ZV	0325003106	868665052	Guiding Readers and Writers (Grades 3-6): Teaching, Comprehension, Genre, and Content Literacy	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Chockful of Info!	This is one of the best comprehensive books on guided reading that I have come across.  It has so many strategies and ideas that I would love to try. I have to take notes while reading it! The book has a great selection of leveled reading books. There are sections for the struggling readers, the strategies to use with certain difficulties, and a whole lot more. There is always something that you can use from this book!  This book was worth every penny! Go and buy it today!	2002-10-28
US	50994265	R1CC8ZI2SJKUYM	0789420260	326451833	Children's Quick and Easy Cookbook	Books	5	97	103	N	Y	YUMMY!	I bought this cookbook originally for my niece. However, it is such a gorgeous book that I kept it for my 5 year old son. The recipes are pretty simple that most of the ingredients you already have at home. The book includes a picture glossary for the terms that are used in the book such as folding in or separating the egg yolk and egg white.  The pictures are magnificent. My son wants to make everything. While the book was created for kids, there are a few recipes that I am eager to try out. They have something in here for everyone. It is not just your PB & J cookbook. This has some real baking and cooking recipes. I cannot wait to try them. I highly recommend this book for the clear cut directions. The lack of fancy ingredients simplify it too. The pictures are worth every penny of the book. The pictures are nice and large so that any aged child can easily follow the steps of the pictures even if they cannot read! Bon Appetit!	2002-10-17
US	50994265	R2HDFMLLK46MAK	0064431436	515190968	Caps for Sale: A Tale of a Peddler Some Monkeys and Their Monkey Business	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great classic!	When I read this book to my son, he loved the monkeys and the way that they imitated the peddler. If you act out the story, it is much more amusing and fun for the little ones. It has a rhythmic pattern that kids love. It helps children to think about what will happen next and predict the ending of the story. This is a very strong example of a circular text structure. All children should learn different text structures. It helps with comprehension. My son loved the illustrations. They are not fancy graphics or pictures with many colors. They are simple illustrations yet, it draws the attention. It is a must read for all kids.	2002-10-17
US	50994265	R37IPL6SVW8VDL	0152002464	508143074	Mr. Putter & Tabby Pick the Pears	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Great Series	As an adult I love these stories. They are repetitive and have a rhythm. This is what the kids love about the books. My son loves the part where Mr. Putter's knees are cranky. Instead of using the word old, decrepit, or any other word that may be over the heads of kids; they used cranky. Kids can relate to this word!  It is a true story of friendship. This is a funny story.  Kids will love making their predictions as to how the book ends.  This is the type of book to let them practice with predictions. It is easy enough that a beginner to chapter books would have an easy time with this book. The words are simple and so is the storyline. This is why Cynthia Rylant's books are all terrific! I highly recommend this book!	2002-10-17
US	50994265	R113Q7NWLC9XSR	0325000719	107003696	Revisit, Reflect, Retell: Strategies for Improving Reading Comprehension	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Very useful!	Unlike other books that just give you graphic organizers without the reason or strategy behind it, this book shows how and why to use the great reproducibles. She also tells how teachers should initiate a retelling or get kids to revisit the text. Her techniques are much like what I learned in my literature-based course but she gives a simple format to use instead of me having to think of my own. These reproducibles can be done with any age and are great to use where certain children have weaknesses. I highly recommend this book! This is not a book that will be stuck in a shelf!  I have many great resource books that are almost a necessity but for a majority of the time I never touch them. I have used this book time and time again with great success!	2002-10-14
US	50994265	REZEW7SSNS5T7	0064440133	296409327	Mouse Tales (I Can Read Level 2)	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	Enjoyable and Imaginative!	I love Arnold Lobel. He tends to always use animals to convey morals. Immediately because of the sweet illustrations of animals wearing clothes, kids are delighted. The stories are simple and make great short stories for kids right before they delve into more difficult chapter books.  These stories show friendship, manners, respect for differences, and helpfulness. This book is filled with positive stories. The tales show cause and effect relationships or compare and contrast stories. It would be a great book to use in an author study of Arnold Lobel. I highly recommend this book in addition, to all of his great books!	2002-10-14
US	50994265	R2R5DM8BI171F2	0060289341	40766083	The Stray Dog	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great!	I bought this book in a paperback version at a book fair. I heard good things about it and I like Marc Simont's illustrations in other books. I picked it up because it is a Caldecott Honor Book. It turns out to be a beautiful story that everyone in the family will enjoy. It is based on a true story but depicted in a way that children can understand the storyline easily.  It shows children that fall in love with a stray and the parents tell the kids that the dog must belong to someone else. Eventually, everyone in the family is thinking about the dog and what happened with him.  At the end of the week, they return to find the dog running from the dog catcher. I am not sure if children are familiar with dog catchers but it can lead into a discussion.  It shows that the family is willing to take on the responsibility of loving a stray. It shows empathy to animals and caring by kids. Children need to learn love animals but to be careful of stray animals. However, children will be moved by this sweet story and cheer for the dog! I definitely recommend it!	2002-09-27
US	50994265	R1NMP95K1UBVTI	0531070549	494680220	A Friend For Dragon (Dragons Tales)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	SWEET!	I bought this book because I was doing a unit on Friendship with my students. I loved this book as did my own children and students!  It is a chapter book that can be read in one sitting. We were all touched by the fact that Dragon was looking for a friend. While the kids laughed at how he made friends with an apple, they learned for science the life cycle of an apple! I love the part where Dragon takes Apple to the Dr. and at the end of that part he took home a brown mushy thing.  It is really a sweet book with great illustrations.  I love all Dav Pilkey books! I highly recommend this book. I plan on getting others in this series!	2002-09-27
US	50994265	RK8GC0TCIP9K4	0689829035	66838135	Take Me Out of the Bathtub and Other Silly Dilly Songs	Books	2	10	21	N	N	What a Waste of Money!	I bought this book thinking it would be cute and funny. It was rated well by Rosie O'Donnell. She is pretty objective. I thought that I would give this book a fair shake. Well, I did and I hated it. First of all, the books do not always fit the lyrics so nicely. It becomes difficult to stay within the lyrics this way. I realize that children in preschool to who knows what grade, love underwear or potty humor.  I do like how the book changes the words to the lyrics but they are not nice. It shows that this child is naughty, disrespectful, dumb, demanding, and complains a lot about everything. At an early age, I believe that kids should listen to their parents and learn to follow directions. This book does not depict this at all.  Even the artwork is pretty bad.  There is no way that a little kid can remember all these songs. Some of the lyrics (the real ones!) children are not familiar with. I think that they need to learn the real words first. Children that are beginning to read or children that are appreciative of books should be listening to fairy tales and nursery rhymes. They should also learn how to pronounce the words correctly. For example, the book shows the word disgust-y. As an adult, I know what the word should be but a child does not.  I know that it does not sound objective at all. I believe that children should be able to pick and choose the books that they want to read. However, it failed to captivate my children's interest and the whole book could not be done in one sitting.  This is one book that I plan to give away! I do not recommend this book. I paid [$] what a waste of money for this!  I could have spent it on a good book instead. I recommend \\"No, David\\" at least this shows consequences, reality, parental love, or teacher caring. It is worth it.	2002-09-27
US	50994265	RWB6C96U14QBJ	0399234160	916162825	Stand Tall, Molly Lou Melon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved It!	WOW!  This book is so beautiful that it almost made me cry. It shows that an elder is wise and can pass down valuable tidbits to help through life. It shows Mary Lou Mellon as a girl who is very different from other kids. Her grandmother tells her to celebrate these differences through pearls of wisdom on each page!  Everyone will be cheering for her! It shows that other people will pick on children with differences. However, Mary Lou Mellon stands up for herself. She is a true heroine!  It also shows that she has a lot of her heart, never feels sorry for herself, or makes fun of others. It has a beautiful ending!  It helps children to recognize their differences and celebrate them. It shows that no matter who you are that there are always bullies but there are ways to show that you have assets anyway. Bullies can be defeated if you believe in yourself. My children love this book but I think I love it more!	2002-09-27
US	50994265	R2TSN2PO70NC9F	0590480871	563139109	David Goes To School	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Children Can Relate!	I bought this book after owning No, David!. I bought this book in a paperback version.  I love this book as do my kids!  David is back only he is now getting into trouble at school. The first book showed my kids proper manners or suffer the consequences for lack of them.  It also depicted love at the end. This story follows the same type of storyline. This time he is creating havoc at school! Children should be familiar with the word, \\"NO!\\" and find this story very funny! I love the David Shannon illustrations. Kids love it because it is from their perspective on life!  It shows that the teacher cares no matter how much she yells at David.  I plan to get the David Gets in Trouble too! My son loves this book because he just entered Kindergarten and is learning to follow directions and rules in \\"big\\" school!  Definitely worth getting!	2002-09-27
US	50994265	RJ3MALOGAEFKN	1562925911	358233412	Apples & Chalkdust Inspirational Stories and Encouragement for Teachers	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Inspirational!	I bought this book as a gift for the preschool teacher who works with my son.  I just received the book and had to read it. It was sweet, touching, and motivational.  They were simple two page stories.  The anecdote for the stories set the tone nicely. These pages had pearls of wisdom.  I have decided to keep the book because I am a teacher too.  I am sure this will come in handy towards the middle of the year.  I guess I have to buy another one!  If you need a book for a quick pick me up,  this is the one!	2002-06-19
US	50994265	R14CO3H8VOU3ZF	1579220290	874106176	How to Get the Teaching Job You Want: The Complete Guide for College Graduates, Returning Teachers and Career Changers	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A Must Have for Teachers Who Want a Job!	I bought this book knowing that the authors worked in the schools as administrators.  They were in charge of hiring and firing. This would help me to know what is expected of me when looking for a job.  The book is filled with important information and tips.  It not only covers the basic resume and cover letter but how to make it stand out!  They mention what you should wear to an interview and how to answer some difficult questions. They provide internet links to popular job links for educators.  The book includes how to create a portfolio, how to sit, some frequently asked questions, and tons of interview questions.<br />This book is recommended on every education web site that I have been to recently.  I have found this book helpful in presenting me in a good light and as a unique employee.  After using this book, I just received a call for me to have my second interview.  This book is a must for every teacher seeking a job today!	2002-06-15
US	50994265	RPYP0RLOBNX2J	0345443055	558558176	The Formula: A Personalized 40-30-30 Weight-Loss Program	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	What a formula!	I cannot believe how clear this book makes eating right.  This book contains menus that everyone in my family enjoys.  My family is eating healthier as a result.  I received a bonus that I did not expect.  My son no longer wants the junk food or fast food.  He wants to eat good foods like Mommy and Daddy.  This floored me!  <BR>   I began to see results a couple of days after starting the fat flush eating plan.  I could not believe the scale. It was encouraging. My husband claimed that he was hungry so I bumped him up to a proportion that fills him without causing any weight issues.  He likes the food.  <BR>   I tried every other eating plan, diet, supplements that are out on the market.  I was on the high protein-low carb diet. I have so many crazy excercise machines that I could open up a store.  This book states that you do not have to excercise to see and feel the difference.  This gave me new hope.  It really made me rethink my eating ideas.  The excercise did speed up the fat loss.  My family never feels deprived.  We are happy and energetic.  We are losing weight and fat.  Our immune systems are better.  We are sleeping better as a result of this meal plan. <BR>  This book I highly recommend. The theory is sound and the menus are wonderful.  My only wish is that the meals took less time to prepare and did not require so many ingredients.  But the time put in yields results.	2002-02-23
US	50994265	R2J0N2PTHYZ0QH	0590474669	751892688	Dog Breath! The Horrible Trouble with Hally Tosis	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Humorous and Witty	It is another Dav Pilkey winner! This book approaches the topic of bad breath with great wit.  The puns help children to understanding cliches and improving their reading skills. <BR>My four year old son loves the book!  He thinks it is hysterical that this cute dog is named Hally Tosis-meaning bad breath. This was a good vocabulary building book for my son.  The illustrations alone help children in understanding the book!	2002-01-27
US	50994265	R3UWGYN3LVWWEC	0679894578	229000913	The Invisible Island (A to Z Mysteries)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Simple and good for predictions!	I used with a student who was older but it helped her comprehension.  She loved this story. It helped her to build her vocabulary, use context clues, and use clues to predict the stories.  The author provides a map in the front that provided a great visual reference for my student.  We were able to practice mapping skills and do many activities based on the story.  It is a good series if children are not ready for the Harry Potter series.	2001-06-22
