US	50995956	R2BKJTVFO2K2UZ	0631171452	904605856	The Formation of A Persecuting Society: Power and Deviance In Western Europe, 950 - 1250	Books	3	21	24	N	N	useful overview, interesting and topical subject	Since i started to study European (Medieval and Renaissance) history, I got the distinct impression that intolerance, a fear of the other, although a human universal throughout world history, plays a particularly important role in European history. Prof. Moore gives a good overview or pulling together various sources on how this phenonemon reared its ugly head again, and especially toward what were deemed new heretical movements in Europe from the 11/12th century onward, after relative calm son that front since the 7th century or so. <BR>Although he does not really offer altogether new insights or sources, which he himself freely admits, this is nevertheless an interesting and useful overview of the creation and treatment of various considered 'marginal' groups in society, such as heretics, lepers, Jews, homosexuals and prostitutes. He tries to explain why in this particular period heretical movements made their comeback, and why persecution started to become much more vigourous and vicious. It is an interesting question and he links it to a number of reasons such as the rise of the money economy that greatly upset existing social arrangements in that time. His main point however, and an interesting one, is that persecution did not necessarily reflect popular sentiment at all, but that to find cogent reasons one needs to look more to the persecutors rather than the persecuted. He states that persecution was the decision of princes and prelates for their own political reasons. This much reflects or coincides with Misha Glenny's observation on the persecutions in Balkan history that nearly each genocide has had the more or less active support of local governments. Also, the political use of disease is well documented elsewhere and so this did not add much new, but it was still good to read it here again. <br />The author does elaborate on this interesting conclusion, and it is indeed central to Moores' book, but I did miss a more specific or detailed discussion or explanation of why these princes and prelates indeed did think it to their political advantage to start perscution and build the elaborate machinery for this in these particular times. Another point that i would have liked to see discussed a bit more is whether these developments are uniquely European or could be found with as much roots in other societes in that time as well. For this the book is too short and leaves one wondering. Nevertheless, i do recommend the book as it deals succinctly with a very important subject that has obvious links with present Europe and elsewhere.	2002-08-19
US	50995956	R188PMQC12F2LX	1557865752	222784272	The European Reformations	Books	4	18	20	N	N	excelllent and well-written overview	I much liked this book on the Reformations, readable, informative and well written. The author makes a credible case about the plural in the title. It is well and clearly written and gives a real and lively 'feel' of the human angle and controversies surrounding these latter-day Reformist 'Church Fathers'; People like Luther, Zwingli, Karlstadt and Calvin come from the pages as human and not as dry names with dates attached to them.  I also appreciated the broad sociopolitical context in which their lives &amp; times are presented.  <BR>Although not a specialist in the field at all, i do think that the author presents clearly the theological arguments as such for a layman reader such as myself. However, I do sometimes get the impression that he oversimplifies, perhaps for the sake of brief clarity. I also wonder whether all that was theologically controversial and interesting during the Reformation only took place in German-speaking areas? On the other hand, perhaps that was indeed were the main action was.  <BR>The author does create the impression that many of the theological ideas emerging during the Reformations were actually new (or does nothing to dispel that idea). Although in some senses undoubtedly innovative, one can argue that many of the concepts were not new at all, and often can be traced to ideas that were alive and kept reemerging, throughout the earlier history of Christianity, often also with solid Catholic antecedents.  However, people like Luther believed their insights were new and different from what they thought of as suffocating and terrifying Catholic orthodoxy. And to them that made all the difference. In any case, I thoroughly and unexpectedly enjoyed this book and i rate it as highly recommended.	2002-07-30
US	50995956	RJ720K89TB1CU	0385495161	391009139	The Mating Mind: How Sexual Choice Shaped the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	4	2	3	N	N	fascinating,entertaining	Our brains not so much as survival mechanisms but as entertainment centers for the opposite sex, where males produce and females choose in a social mixed-sex setting; This is the idea of Dr Miller, and he explains and plays with the idea and several of its corollaries most convincingly. 'Optimalizing sexual strategies' as he calls it, and behind the enormous variety dictated by local circumstances of time and place (such as investigated by Buss, for instance) lie some Darwinian ideas that seem to have quite a lot of explanatory power.  He also honestly indicates some of the weaknesses and areas such as homosexuality that are more difficult to explain, for the moment at least, in purely biological-evolutionary terms.  And the distinction of genetic driven urges and free choice and responsability remains as valid as ever; the urges are there, we have been biogically selected for that and descend directly from ancestors with those traits.  To consider the creative production of art, complex language, religion, and other social institutions as at least partly a result of male competition for female attention is not diminishing the former; great art stays as magnificent as ever, the incredibly powerful driving force of sexuality plays centre stage and the results are fascinating, destructive or creative, and the writer does a good job theorizing about many such elements.<BR> <BR>I have read several good books on evolutionary biology now (Wright, Ridley, Buss, etc) and this one fits the same category of high quality writing for the interested layman that I have almost come to expect of books on the subject. Stimulating, provocative, entertaining, the writer does a good job himself of entertaining, creating useful and interesting insights, and no doubt making himself attractive for females in the process.  Recommended!	2001-11-27
US	50995956	R2UI0NL7LN0D95	0415241138	573198463	A Common Humanity: Thinking about Love and Truth and Justice	Books	4	15	16	N	N	thoughtful and compassionate	I read this book on basis of positive book reviews and I can only agree with those recommendations. Prof. Gaita as a professional philosopher deals with profound yet everyday occurrences and issues of human life, as the title also suggests: 'thinking about love and truth and justice'. This book deals with morality, concepts of good and evil and what occurs in human lives with intelligence, subtlety and compassion. He discusses, inter alia, the Holocaust, racism, and Australian Aboriginals. He points out that other people are treated as sub-humans only when there is a denial of the common humanity with the other. And these are issues on what occurs in human lives that every generation has to face and think about anew. I particularly liked his explanation of our relation to other, the notion that our sense of reality of others is partly conditioned by our vulnerability to them, the realisation of what it means to wrong them. Remorse is that realisation, and it is interdependent with a definite (and innate?) concept of evil. Grief, when it is not self-indulgent, is a heightened form of the awareness of another, a pained realisation of the independent reality of those we have lost. According to Gaita, it is astonishing that there could be such a state as guilt and suffering as remorse, with as a counterpart the wonder that other human beings could matter so much to us. <br />It is challenging, moving, and certainly not an easy book to read, and i do not pretend I always fully could follow the reasoning. But then, i did not expect it to be easy. In fact, I would have been suspicious if that would have been the case. The approach is different from e.g. the American philosopher R. Rorty and i found it as enlightening. Recommended!	2001-05-04
US	50995956	RD7PM02TTR2YW	0202010996	816340469	Stone Age Economics	Books	3	100	112	N	N	interesting antropological economics	This is a well-known and rather old (1972) classic work on the economics of exchange as a cultural phenomenon. I remember this book was quoted several times during my studies of economics (and that was in the early 80s). I always kept the idea that as an economist I actually should read it myself, and so now i finally did.<br />The book is written from an anthropological angle and claims that stone age economies were the original affluent society. The claim is startling as it is original, as it runs counterintuitive; weren't people in early primitive (as defined by level of societal complexity) communities not always on the border of starvation and their needs much unfulfilled? Here the author points out that in the central concept of economics, scarcity, or the tension between wants and means, can be reduced either from the supply side (which is what modern production and exchange economies do) or on the demand side, the Zen way to happiness so to speak, by not having much of any demand. Within their own context such hunter-gatherer societies were therefore quite well-off and not on the brink of disaster. To have high wealth in the form of goods was simply not practical in this way of life as you had to carry all of it around hence slowing you down. Similarly, there was often an under-use of resources rather than a constant bumping against existence limits. Of course, there were very real Malthusian limits also as a result of the societal organization. Nevertheless, the point on scarcity is well made and can be seen as a (mild) critique of consumer society. It also bring the social and cultural context in which economics plays to the fore. At the same time, the author discusses the role of gift exchange in return for other goods as a social phenomenon next to the purely economic terms of exchange. Gifts and trade rather than war has a very real meaning in societies and is especially tangible in less complex groups, somethinh he shows in true antropologist fashion by referring to some interesting studies of several small societies in Africa and Polynesia.<br />The same idea also of course holds for more developed nations, but here the direct social relationships among and between much larger groups is much more anonymous and diffused.<br />I am an economist, not an anthroplogist, and found it very interesting to read this well-written and sometimes humorous book in order to realise once again how economics is a social science in the true sense of the word. Nothing to be ashamed about, and it is always good as a refresher to read from different angles on the fundamentals of your own profession.<br />recommended.by referring to some interesting studies of several small societies in Africa and Polynesia. <br />The same idea also of course holds for more developed nations, but here the direct social relationships among and between much larger groups is much more anonymous and diffused. <br />I am an economist, not an anthroplogist, and found it very interesting to read this well-written and sometimes humorous book in order to realise once again how economics is a social science in the true sense of the word. Nothing to be ashamed about, and it is always good as a refresher to read from different angles on the fundamentals of your own profession.<br />recommended.	2001-05-04
US	50995956	R27NNT0KZHUTX5	0691010072	788931843	The Myth of the Global Corporation	Books	4	16	18	N	N	useful antidote to globalization hype	In an era where one book after the other seems to extoll the story of the globalisation Juggernaut, the reader can all too easily get the impression that all in the economy is now globalizing.  Do not borders cease to exist for one enterprise and sector after the other?  Although you can argue this is true to some extent for a number of sectors and production processes, at the same time it is not quite the whole story and creates a false or misleading image.  The authors argue that enterprises are not only economic but als political actors, and for me as an economist this was an interesting point.  <br />This book then provides a sober antidote to this misperception of transnational corporations as truly borderless production systems that only seek the most efficient way to produce and where nationality does not matter.  It provides a convincing overview of how even the largest 'transnational' corporations remain to a large extent 'national', if not in their economics then in their politics.  With thorough empirical work it is shown that globalizing activities of transnational enterprises in OECD countries mostly still have a home bias along a number of dimensions.  I confess that this was also for me (economist dealing with glabalization) a good sobering read that helped me to keep a perspective and offered a number of novel ideas. Recommended.	2001-01-31
US	50995956	R8Q31ABUQXR9H	0801428025	757156299	The German Predicament: Memory and Power in the New Europe	Books	4	5	5	N	N	right on the spot	This well-written book deals with the largest and most economically powerful EU Member State in Europe, Germany. The focus of the study is Germany's relationships with the other European neighbours. But is does so in an unusual and interesting way, and I think the authors did an excellent job in this; they looked in neighbouring European countries at public attitudes toward ,and ideas about, Germany; the cultural genome, if you will, of small and larger countries in Europe and their perception of a country that dominated modern European history.<br />It makes very interesting reading on how, say, the Danes or Finns or French think of Germany.  I do not know how correct this is but if i take the chapter dealing with the Netherlands and Dutch ideas of Germany, then as a Dutchman I can say I found their analyis of Dutch attitutes toward Germany almost embarrassingly spot-on.  <br />I also much liked the discussion of attitudes and ideas in Germany itself toward itself and its role in Europe. They argue that Germany has an economic and political responsibility that comes with the sheer economic size of the country within the European Union (and wider Europe).  Germany, and with it the rest of Europe, can like it or not but the responsibility cannot be denied, it can only be shirked.  If an elephant moves it will affect all that is around it.  I think the point is well made and well taken.  The authors argue rightly that for Germany, and for an integrating Europe and the crucial role that Germany plays in this, it is necessary that the realization that economic size brings political responsibility is actively accepted and managed.  Where will the elephant decide to go, in discussion with the animals around it, rather than taking the path and trails it makes as an unintended and perhaps undesired effect of where it lumbers.  And elephant trying to make itself small (for very understandable reasons) is not going to be very constructive.  <br />This more active attitude seems indeed to be taken up in Germany to some extent, and viewed with equal parts of uneasyness and approval by other European countries.  <br />It strikes me that much a similar analysis could be made of Japan and its neighbours, and it would be equally fascinating to read about that as well.  Here one could argue that at least Germany has traveled  the road of acknowledging the past while preparing for the future much further than Japan. In any case, I can recommend this book for anybody interested in the multifacted and interesting relationship of a key country in the EU with the rest of Europe.	2001-01-31
US	50995956	R1I4JQGVDRJCH3	0394715195	473764804	The Gift: Imagination and the Erotic Life of Property	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Inspiring and full of life	I read this book on the recommendation of a dear friend of mine, and after reading it i can understand why she recommended it. This philosophic and poetic book deals with a very important facet of human lives and societies that is all too often overlooked in economic analyis, namely the act of giving where no market is involved. This book is not your usual and often too facile critique of the market economy. The latter gets its proper due but not only in a negative sense; after all, market economic systems generate goods and choices in a particular area of scarcity in more efficient ways than tried out on other systems. Yes, it is certainly true, as the author points out, that the social act and economics of the commodity exchange is something else entirely than the social act of giving outside of the market economy, and both the analyis and implications in the book make that deservedly clear. As an economist i found the discussion on usury and the different categories of values that can be atttached to a product very interesting and basic. At the same time, I had not yet encountered such an interesting discussion on the act of giving as part of a society and the linkages with a commodity producing market economy. And as a person taking part of society I found the discussion on the creative act of giving and the trace of social bonds this engenders inspiring on a personal level as well. The writer here mixes analysis with what is for me enlightening poetic language, and the role of the artist here is also well put. As other reviewers, I found the first part very interesting while the further discussion on Whitman and Pound was harder going. Although certainly not always an easy read as a scholarly study, I can certainly recommend this unusual book on the abundance and generosity of spirit that living in society can bring, as a conscious act with magic of inspiration.	2001-01-28
US	50995956	RNZDWDAU0GGJE	0814797660	48142276	The Balkans Since 1453	Books	5	13	15	N	N	indispensable	The book by prof.Stavrianos was the last one I had on my list of books on the Balkans that I had planned to read as background material for my own work on the economies of the EU Candidate Countries, and especially of course the Southeastern ones (the other books were by Glenny, Hodos, Obolensky, Kaplan). It was also the thickest one at 850 pages but I must say it was a pleasure to read.  The set-up by theme and by individual country is always clear, and there is a richness of detail and at the same time a broad sweep that gives a very good overview. This is indeed what makes this book an exellent and impressive reference work, as the other reviewers also indicated and with which i can only concur. This richness also sometimes made me skip a few pages as I was not interested in every detail but this is not a criticism per se; there will be something in this book for all interested in the Balkans without necessarily wanting to take note of all the information that is there.<br />For me as an economist, what the author makes clear and what struck me in particular was how the combination of economic (agricultural, industrial, financial, infrastructural) underdevelopment and social and political problems (health, education, ethnic and reliious) that are still present today in many of these countries, have been part of their history for centuries.  This does not mean they are immutable (and becoming an EU Member is the best way to break this deadlock, I am convinced) but it shows how deep a legacy needs to be overcome.  So for this insight already for me the book was well worth reading.  In combination with M. Glenny who provides a modern history of the period 1800-1990s there is of course some overlap but I can recommend to have them both (Glenny is perhaps more lively written). Stavrianos will stand as the reference work by which others are measured.	2001-01-03
US	50995956	R38M03VRKS9Z42	0691015988	425006446	The Passions and the Interests	Books	5	20	22	N	N	good insights in historical development on idea capitalism	I much enjoyed reading this book, and can unreservedly recommend it to anyone interested in political economy and the history of economics (which grew out of the original 'political economy' into a separate branch of social science).  Prof. Hirschman does a very good job in pulling together the various scattered ideas in modern history (so say from around 17th century onward) on the ideology and basic motivations for capitalism.  This is a very interesting study on possible political motivations in a time that economic development through capitalism in Europe slowly started to take hold (large parts of Europe still remained a largely agrarian-based economy until end 19th/early 20th century). Even though this brought enormous political and social upheavals, the ideas on capitalism still largely were of a brave new world variety, and understandingly so. The observation that the desire for wealth does not seem to diminish as levels of wealth increase (an exception to the law of dimishing marginal utility) led a number of political philosophers to the exciting and hopeful idea that capitalism would channel human destructive passion or act as a 'counterweight' to other less socially desirable behaviour (of which the 17/18th centuries in Europe saw its share as well).  As it turned out, this basic optimistic idea of course needed some heavy qualifications; e.g. to avoid abuses of power (such as the inevetable necessity for a strong role of government in capitalism, e.g. as enforcer of fair and equitable competition and alleviate market failures; or that economic interests do not necessarily stop any war).  Nevertheless, the ideas on positive effects of capitalism on human behavior still stands in contemporary discussions as well, if only often implicitly. I liked his remark on how ironic, in historical context, the argument is that the strong focus on capitalism in modern society has led to impoverishment and alienation in the human experience.  The idea in capitalism asdescribed by its early protagonists was precisely to counteract or channel the human 'passions' that so far had not led to much constuctive behavior.   As Prof. Hirschmann notes, a historical awarenesss of such arguments may not bring any clearer answers today but will certainly help to lift the level of discussion.	2001-01-03
US	50995956	R29VVQ848NI4K	1860467296	533818664	On Identity	Books	3	1	3	N	N	well-written plea for tolerance	I read the book by Amin Maalouf with much pleasure. There was little I could disagree with in his brief and well-written essay, and he clearly writes with deep conviction and passion.  It seems that Malouf is continuing in an ancient tradition in the Middle East by Muslim and Judaic philosophers on the importance of mutual tolerance, and a recognition that the myriad attributes one presents (religion, cultural background, sex, color of skin, lenght, weight, age, nationality, etc. etc. etc.) are indeed just that, attributes that in itself do not necessarily define you; more often than not, people take one particular element as a defining feature (e.g. religion or color of your skin) to the exclusion of all else and thereby diminishing both themselves and the other person.<br />He discusses several times the fear that many people in Europe or the Middle East often have of cultural US domination (this must be his French background or am i making now the same mistake in intolerance?). Point taken, but I missed a more extensive discussion of the historic effort on European integration where similar fears also play (loss of 'cultural identity').<br />His arguments and plea for the richness of individuals in society I found well done, and although there is not much new or startling there (must be my own liberal background), it is important that such points are made again and again as reminders to us all.	2001-01-03
US	50995956	R2HKS1EQ1204MT	0195115899	776700399	Leading Issues in Economic Development	Books	4	12	14	N	N	very useful introduction	I bought this book on the recommendation of a colleague who teaches development economics and uses the book himself. I am an economist by training, my background is on macroeconomics and international economic relations, and hence there was much that i recognized. One reason I wanted to learn more on development economics is that I am currently involved in work on EU Candidate Countries and economic transition issues.  Although these countries are clearly not in the same category as less developed countries (although that phrase has become increasingly meaningless in itself as it covers so many very different countries), I think there could be fruitful cross-fertilization from reading a book on development economics. Certainly there would seem to be a number of issues where the candidate countries share some common ground at least, or where useful lessons could be learned from development economics (institution and capacity building and macroeconomic stabilization, for instance).   The discussion on how development economics is different from other disciplines in economics (notably macro-economics) or adds value to it is of course as old as development economics itself.  I found this book very useful as a broad and balanced introducion, and even though it sometimes covered familiar ground I think it often did so with a specific slant on LDCs that did add value for me, as did discussion of subjects not usually found in most economics books on social issues such as the role of women.  I liked the listings of positive and negative arguments on a number of issues such as what has been achieved incpoverty reduction. I also liked the broad collection of seminal articles that you are unlikely to find elsewhere. <br />I found the articles and empirical research quoted not always of very recent date, and especially the latter bothered me.  In several instances the texts quoted empirical findings from studies dating from the 70s or so. I do not find that very convincing; havethere really been no more recent findings for the last 25 years?  Also the lay-out of the text was not always very clear or attractive to the eye, and I think there is definite room for improvement there as well.<br />That said, this is still excellent value for money, and the book is certainly well worth to read for anybody interested in a good introduction on development economics.	2000-12-11
US	50995956	R1W5Q41DZX3CGS	0297003437	163987221	Byzantine Commonwealth: Eastern Europe, 500-1453 (History of Civilization)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting and useful	For my background reading on Central and East European EU Candidate Countries, I have been reading several books on the history of the Balkans.  For the period 500-1453 I took the book from Prof. Obolensky (for 1453-early 20th century I recommend L. Stavrianos, Misha Glenny, and G. Hodos).  I found the book clearly written and well set out.  The central message of this study runs like a red thread thorugh the book. The influence of the Byzantine East Roman Empire on the law, culture, religion and art of the countries in that region is shown to be of major importance and is clearly one of the major shaping actors in the early history of the Balkans.  Yet at the same time during this period there was no slavish following of whatever came from Byzantium.  The complicated story of attraction and repulsion, the ongoing flow and struggles with the 'Byzantine Commonwealth' (i find prof. Obolenksy's expression in this contect quite useful) of the different peoples in the Balkans makes good reading and, for me, gives met the sense of a good first grasp of the outset of history on this fascinating region.  This book is not always easy to read and not only for beginners, but the more rewarding for it.	2000-12-05
US	50995956	ROWRTP5D4UDBF	0375703829	22806037	Silk	Books	4	6	6	N	N	light flowing poetry in motion	As most other readers seemed to have done, I read this book in about one hour, and it was a pure delight. A tale well told, and the rhythm of the text is indeed like poetry. Or a piece of music with a repeated cadence like a train on rails, indicating at the same time the broad rhythm of ongoing life and the uniqueness of events. I loved the dry and sparse style, e.g. of the recurrent travel description going from France to Japan or vice-versa in one paragraph, the unexpectedly broken or repeated sentences. The story is like a watercolor with some stark ink strokes (very Japanese and Zen, of course) which makes the driving force of human love and will come out all the more powerfully. A short, romantic and elegant tale of love and commitment, light sensuality (what fabric is more sensual that silk?) and an eroticism slowly throbbing under the tale like lava. Pleasure to read, and it makes a very good gift, too.	2000-12-05
US	50995956	R1FWCCE0TD8NW1	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	4	17	21	N	N	clear critical overview of complex region	For my work as an economist I had just started to work on Balkan economies in the framework of EU Enlargement.  I think one of the prerequisites in understanding an economy as a social system and its future possibilities is to take account of its history, and so I collected several books on Balkan history. <br />I found Glenny's book fascinating, providing real insight into the complex and bloody history of the countries of the region, ethnicity, language, religion all playing important roles, as did the Great Powers surrounding the region and constantly short-changing these countries, pawns in a shifting chess game.  It is a bewildering mixed tale of countries both as victims of the shifting alliances and politics of the reactionary Empires and, at the same time, as willing participants in bloody wars as often with as against each other, crossing religion, ethnicity and language.  <br />Reading this book gave me a real 'feel' of the region and its political and social problems, and I also much appreciate that he minces no words and is pretty even-handed as fas as i can tell; uncomfortable truths for all parties are clearly and repeatedly noted. For instance, that no massacre in the modern history of the Balkans took place without the more or less active support of the government, who then conveniently hid behind the fig leaf excuse of 'ancient hatreds'.  As Glenny notes, 'the current enemy is always the eternal enemy'. Or that the reactionary Great Powers often deliberately held back any economic and social development in a desperately poor region for the sake of power politics, never wondering whether this would be in the interest of the poor and long-suffering peasantry who lived there.  None of the participants (the Balkan countries themselves nor its rich and powerful neighbours) get away with a clean bill in Glenny's account.<br />I missed a proper discussion of the economic dimension that (as Mr Glenny also indicates) played an important role in the politicaland social development (or lack of it) in the region, and I found the tale on the political developments not always easy to follow. That said, and then again, the subject itself is complex and the book does a great job in giving a sense of overview of the most bewilderingly complex region in Europe.  It is very hard to understand current developments in the Balkans without a historic context on (modern) history such as Glenny provides.  And it needs to be taken into account more than ever with the process of EU enlargement that brings these countries closer in a binding intergating economic and political framework than ever before, which is exactly the point of course.   This is important reading and one of the best books i have read on the subject so far.	2000-11-07
US	50995956	RKXWWMHT8INWC	0275954978	264230736	The East-Central European Region: An Historical Outline	Books	4	4	4	N	N	succinct and thought-provoking	This relatively short book (about 150 pages) on regional and comparative history of Central and Eastern Europe was a pleasure to read.  The author clearly knows his way around, and the overall suggestion is that there is a lot more behind this analysis that can be explored. The book provides a thought-provoking overview of some main differences in political, economic and social development between West - en C/E Europe, from Medieval times to the present. The backward economic development and unhappy and very bloody history in the region, for instance, is not something of the 20th century only but has been the case there for a much longer time.  It was closely linked to tenacious feudalism in these countries that lasted much longer than in Western Europe and had devastating consequences, as made clear by Dr Hodos.  The chapter on differences in anti-Semitism in West and Eastern Europe was a real eye-opener for me and is part of a mentality and history that also clearly needs to be faced by all participants.   There are of course a number of important differences between say, Poland and Rumania, as the author clearly explains. However he then also does provide a clear sense of broad overview and commonalities in historic and political developments as compared to Western Europe.  Not to take account of this in the current major EU Enlargement exercise and negotiations would prove be a costly and damaging mistake for both the EU and the Candidate Countries: history is not necessarily a barrier to integration but it must be faced and understood in order to deal with the past and to create new possibilities out of that instead of the slaughter,hatred and bloody-minded nationalism that was the bane of much of the region.  Definitely recommended reading for anybody who does not have much time to read the vast literature on the Balkans (which i only have just begun to read) and who needs a grasp of regional history of a much-misunderstood and important part of Europe.	2000-10-09
US	50995956	R17TO6GBYRL3D7	0375703950	347062069	Ocean Sea	Books	5	5	6	N	N	poetic pleasure	Reading this book reminded me of other poetic and philosophic fairytales  such as by St. Exupéry (le Petit Prince) or Coelho (The Alchemist). Rich,  almost too much so at times, evocative, romantic, cinematographic in its  imagery, and sometimes very funny, this book was a delight to read. I could  appreciate it even more once I had given up the need to rationally  understand or analyze the characters or events (do fairytales make sense?),  and could go with the elegant flow of images and connections. <br />The  diverse characters coming together at the dream-like hotel by the sea all  go there to re-create or save themselves and thereby create life anew.  The  little children who run the hotel and the hotel itself are the stuff of  ethereal dreams that leave you wondering after you wake up, finishing the  book, with a sadness that the dream is over.	2000-08-30
US	50995956	RXNN9B7BRQMXK	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	5	6	7	N	N	provokingly sane evolutionary biology	After reading Robert Wright's 'The Moral Animal' (another excellent book on the subject) i was ready for more, and this book certainly keeps up the high quality penetrating and provoking analysis that these writers bring to  their subject. And often funny too. Fascinating to read this book on an  essentially very technical subject, and to be dragged face to face with  such a humbling thought that yes, we are very much animals, whether we like  it or not.    I think the writer maks a few excellent and refreshingly  well-balanced and reasonable points on biology , feminism and the essential  biological differentiation (please note: nothing about 'inferior' or  'superior') of men and women, just as there are differences between sexes  in other animals.   The question of why there are two sexes for humans in  the first place is as startling as it is profound, and the writer brings a  first-rate     pen and mind to this question that for long was not  questioned at all except the rare biologist who dared raise it.   In  reading i found that my mind sometimes wandered off a bit when going  through some technical aspects but that is probably just me, i never liked  nor understood biology very much at school.  It then only testifies to the  skill of the writer to bring the subject matter alive that I did read this  book and loved it so much! And i hardly ever give 5 stars...	2000-05-16
US	50995956	R1WCRBQFUY7TXH	0060926910	347792165	Intimate History of Humanity, An	Books	4	11	12	N	N	unusual &amp; interesting	This is social history at its best by an intellectual who clearly has some French roots, speaking wonderfully about whatever subject he chooses to elaborate on. In this case this results in a kaleidoscope of images of  private human life over time.  I liked the multi-disciplinary approach and  the almost poetic language and impressionistic canvas used here.  Not a  book to learn history from as commonly understood but definitely a  refreshing complement to other social histories.	2000-05-08
US	50995956	R5HN6C4JIHIN	0691049351	417851749	The Challenge of Global Capitalism	Books	3	3	3	N	N	reasonable overview for graduate students	Prof. Gilpin has an excellent reputation in the field of IPE, International Political Economy, and I bought this book on that recommendation.<br />It gives a good overview of major developments in the globalization and globalization debate in the 90s, with political economy analysis and lots of references to economic analysis. I would recommend it for graduate students, but I must say i was a bit disappointed, not much new or inspirational there. I could read the book very quickly without ever really having to stop and think. Here i think it is only fair to reveal my own background, which is in international economic relations and history of EU integration. Some of his points on the nature and development of the European Union and the economics are frankly quite contestable, especially on the openness or closedness of the EU. The debate on 'Fortress Europe' is really out of date by now ever since it became clear that the Single European Act of 1987 and the '1992' project were not about closing the EU economy, quite the contrary. Do I detect an US bias here?<br />Yes, as prof. Gilpin points out, economists indeed disagree on many key issues. But you will find that strife also within IPE and political science and in any other social science discipline. So? It reflects the complexity of the issues rather than weakness of the discipline, i'd argue (but then, I would would I, as an economist...) A number of problems in globalization and the international financial system are presented as (relatively) new, but I'd argue that more often than not these problems were always there in history. Also, the point that regionalization threatens globalization is too strong as put there, and not necessarily correct and so clear-cut at all: many regional economic agreements were made in the course of the Uruguay Round trade negotiations at GATT/WTO out of frustration with the slow pace of negotiations and as a 'back-up' plan in case of UR failure. Hardly a threat to globalization which, in any case, throughout history never really progressed smoothly at all. <br />All that said, the book does do a solid job of pointing out some of the main issues and discussions and it will do well as a topical reference book.	2000-05-03
US	50995956	RSC3A1VVNDUB7	0465051952	343903714	Power And Prosperity: Outgrowing Communist And Capitalist Dictatorships	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Interesting and clear reasoning	As a young student I found Olson's 'Rise and Decline of Nations' a very interesting and well-written book. Recently, as an eonomist on international economic relations 15 years further down the road I picked up  this book and again was caught by the clear writing and the compelling  reasoning.  I recently taught a graduate course on East European economic  conversion and I would have put this book on the reading list if I had read  it earlier.   I think the text is sometimes a bit too pat and I would have  liked to see more empirical evidence.  On the other hand, Olson does make a  good case for his theory and I like the hopeful message it conveys.  His  emphasis on the importance of institution building in economic and social  development I think is correct. This is certainly one of the more  interesting books I have read on the subject. Recommended!	2000-04-14
US	50995956	R2C6RIC8X4605T	8716134443	931832585	Enlarging Europe: The Industrial Foundations of New Political Reality	Books	4	1	1	N	N	useful overview industrial restructuring CEECs	I used this book in a graduate course that I taught on European Union Enlargement with the Central and Eastern European countries (CEECs). I found the collection of papers on the changing nature of trade flows betweeen EU and CEECs (toward higher quality products), foreign direct  investment (FDI) flows, industrial restructuring of CEEC industry on  sectoral levels and how that ties in with restructuring of EU industries  informative and useful. The political economy papers I also found  interesting. <br />I especially like the point the editors make that, viewed  in a dynamic context, CEEC industries could be integrated with EU  industries in a longer-term perspecive. The idea is to use each others'  competitive advantages rather than considering the CEEC industries as  low-cost competition, and setting restructuring of both EU and CEEC  industries in a - in principle at least- mutually beneficial dynamic  process.  Of course there are a number of real dangers in this process  (creating dual economies and short-term unemployment, increasing rather  than diminishing sectoral and regional development gaps etc). Clearly  developments are uneven and not smooth and some of the papers clearly point  that out, but I think the basic approach makes a lot of sense and  reinforces the integrationist ideas of e.g. the European Commission.  My  only problem with the book is the rather old data that are sometimes used,  which in this context is even worse since in a situation of such massive  and fast restructuring the relevant data 'age' even faster than normal, but  i know that  to some extent that is unavoidable.<br />Good reference book and  well-written, avoiding technical jargon.	2000-04-03
US	50995956	R1XJ0UFUYTRHZ2	0801435099	306044363	The Choice for Europe: Social Purpose and State Power from Messina to Maastricht (Cornell Studies in Political Economy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	excellent revisionist overview of European integration	I found this book one of the best I have read on European integration history.  It is a good example of revisionist history at its best. Compared to other books i have studied on the same subject this one makes a number  of novel points and gives a completely different emphasis on driving  factors &amp; driving actors of the process of EU integration, putting the  role of the Member States at centre stage all the way, and their economic  interests as primary driving elements.  To me, as an economist, this  sounded convincing and certainly puts a novel slant on the traditional  'high politics' integration story. At the same time, I also found it a  somewhat depressing account of the ineffectiveness of the Commission at  crucial times of decision making.  The book certainly puts into question  some cherished notions about the role and functioning of the Commission,  and since I am proud to work there it was not easy to take this in.<br />I  found the first chapter hard going and somewhat obtruse, although i can  appreciate the methodological points he makes, which are all to often  ingnored.  Once one is through that, though, the real story begins and a  fascinating account it is, especially since it certainly does not follow  the analysis i have read previously on this subject. <br />An excellent  reference work, and certain to stimulate many a (heated) debate.	2000-03-09
US	50995956	R36V93LPDO174G	0312216971	727211325	Redrawing the Map of Europe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intelligent and thought-provoking discussion on Europe	I use this book as part of the recommended reading in a course on EU Enlargement. The author is very knowledgable and I find the book clearly written. It deals, in an interdisciplinary fashion, with many facets of  'What is Europe'.  I found the discussion of the divisions and unity in  Europe based on geography, history, politics and economics interesting and  convincing.  The vision of a Europe that he develops into a 'European Civil  Society' is much in tune with the times, enlightened and realistic.  The  historic possibility of an enlarged EU toward 25 or more members is closer  than ever before, a means to overcome religious, linguistic, cultural and  political divisions of centuries or millennia. It can, and will, happen,  provided robust institutions are there to support it.  Utopic as it all  perhaps may seem (and it is always much easier to be a cynical pessimist),  the author rightly points out the often bloody and nationalistic  alternatives (all also very European) that have been tried time and time  again, and from which there are still very real dangers today. To counter  these he makes a number of constructive proposals on linkages and current  overlapping institutional set-ups. Provocative and interesting.	2000-01-19
US	50995956	R20R3MZ94ZYTKW	0521638976	625763324	Recreating Europe: The European Union's Policy towards Central and Eastern Europe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	useful&amp;complete overview of EU policy to CEECs	I use this book as required reading for a graduate course on European Union Enlargement in a US university (where i spend the academic year away from the Europan Commission as a visiting EU Fellow).  Prof. Mayhew clearly  knows what he is talking about, as former high official at the European  Commission at the centre of developments with Central and East European  countries on EU Enlargement.  He provides a complete and detailed overview  of the roles of the various players and the long and complicated process of  EU-CEEC relationship and EU Enlargement, one of the biggest historic  challenges of European integration ever undertaken.  Perhaps not very  critical on some issues (Other academic authors definitely use a more  critical line) but still fair and balanced, generally well-written and  clear. Recommended for study and reference for all students interested in  EU integration.	2000-01-17
US	50995956	R2J6GVCJLA9Y2A	0415120020	515746431	The Enlargement and Integration of the European Union: Issues and Strategies (Routledge/UACES Contemporary European Studies)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Useful and interesting overview on EU Enlargement process	I use this book as part of the literature for a graduate course on EU Enlargement. I find it well-written, informative and I especially like the historical context, of how the 'rules for EC enlargement' were created over  time: It shows that many problems and issues of current EU Enlargement were  issues and problems of previous enlargements as well.   I also liked the  clear explanation of the strong linkages between widening and deepening of  EU integration over time, and how each enlargement more or less strongly  affected the existing EC MS. The book is not very technical and I'd  definitely recommended it for students of political economy, economics and  political science!	2000-01-11
US	50995956	REH4TT3Z6HX8A	0262150492	242163510	Globalization and History: The Evolution of a Nineteenth-Century Atlantic Economy	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Interesting history 19th cent. Atlantic globalization	I am an economist working on globalization issues, interested in history and economic history. I found this book an excellent study that puts globalization discussion in historical (19th century) context, a period of  large international capital flows and even larger human capital flows. Th  study uses data on these mass movements in production factors to  empirically test/uses the standard international trade Heckscher Olin model  on income and factor price distribution in trade. It shows that these mass  movements had indeed measurable effects on income distribution following  some of the model predictions.  Problems of globalization in economic terms  are indeed linked to the income effects of several groups in the economy  following the opening up to increasing trade, investment and migration  flows.  All too often these discussions are marred by lack of data and lack  of historical awareness, and i found this study filling a real gap. It  surely will be contested but i found the analysis interesting and  well-written. Recommended!	2000-01-11
US	50995956	R1VXZ5NYY6K9KU	0393040178	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Interesting but analysis a bit glib	As an economist with interest in (economic) history I was curious to read this book and compare with others that touch on this very fascinating subject of causes of long-term growth. There has been a spate of books on  macro-socioeconomic history especially from late 70s onward (North, E.  Jones, Gress etc) and this one fits in that series.  I found the book  well-written in journalistic style and sometimes funny.  It gives a good  and lively overview of economic and social history.  The analysis I found  less convincing and not very deep or penetrating, relying on cases or  'just-so' history. Some statements using economics (such as 'work is better  than wealth') were frankly very puzzling to me. That said, as a  popularizing book on history and economics is still has merit.  But it is  especially the style rather than content that earns it 3 stars.	1999-12-16
US	50995956	R1UWSIFU8Y11JX	0582320151	999205077	European Monetary Integration	Books	4	1	1	N	N	thorough historical and institutional analysis	As an economist at the EC I found this book a good reference work on EMU, strong especially on the history of ERM and EMU and the institutional set-up of both.  The arguments pro and con on EMU were well presented and  often subtle.  Overall highly recommended as textbook for graduate students  and professional economists.	1999-11-05
US	50995956	R3U5KMDEIEHW28	1855675161	694509356	The Origins and Development of European Integration: A Reader and Commentary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	interesting historical overview, useful documents	I found this publication useful and interesting in a vast field with many good publicatons.  The value added here is that the authors brought together a good historical selection of the original documents from  official EU Member State governments and other sources.  This gives a very  good feel of how the viewpoints were developing at the time.  The  introductory texts for each period covered also provide a concise overview  and analysis of the period, main events and actors.  Interesting and  recommended.	1999-09-15
US	50995956	R3TH6YSC0NSOFI	0815771584	300926968	The Rebirth of Europe	Books	3	5	5	N	N	upbeat assessment of European integration	As someone working daily in Brussels on European issues and with an interest in EU enlargement, i found this book a breath of fresh air amidst reading on all the problems the EU has to face in enlargement.  The author  gives a convincingly upbeat and positive assessment of how far the CEECs  have come in terms of institution building for democracy and the rule of  law, of protection of minorities and human rights, and a (historically new)  willingness to work with each other to resolve outstanding and often very  old historical conflicts, often related ot minorities and borders.  This  new phenomenon is at least partly due to the incentive of prospects for EU  Membership.  The political Copenhagen Criteria set out for EU Membership  apperently prove to be succesful at least in this respect. This is not to  say that many economic and political issues are resolved, nor that these  countries now or even soon will meet all the criteria. But the progress in  many CEECs in such fields as democracy and human rights has indeed been  remarkable, and that needs to be acknowledged and welcomed.<br />In terms of  pure analysis the book is perhaps not so strong, but then again it is not  meant for academia but for a more general public. I think the author, whose  journalistic background shines through, does an excellent job in bringing a  positive antidote to Euro-pessimism on enlargement.	1999-09-15
US	50995956	REZJGP4X5O9GM	0300070152	963791077	Epidemics and History: Disease, Power and Imperialism	Books	4	14	20	N	N	solid and interesting	I found this book an excellent companion to earlier books on the subject (McNeill, Crosby), as it puts diseases in human society in a historic social/cultural and political context. I started out sceptical but then got  caught by the book and its analyis was for me an eye-opener on how  (Western) medicine was a tool often used for ends that had nothing to do  with physical well-being, sickness prevention and care. The end conclusions  on economics and health economics i do not share at all, i think the author  gets carried away a bit and goes way too fast to condemn economists here,  (guess what my profession is). Definitely worth while.	1999-06-23
US	50995956	RN61LT7GWIHVV	1555878040	629561394	The European Union: Readings on the Theory and Practice of European Integration	Books	4	1	5	N	N	interesting historical &amp; political overview	I found this book a useful reference work for the original texts concerning the political study of EU integration history &amp; theory.	1999-04-13
US	50995956	R1R8MJ3I7D24F7	0691078793	138726122	Dissolution: The Crisis of Communism and the End of East Germany	Books	5	2	4	N	N	fascinating account of the implosion of a state	I thoroughly enjoyed reading this excellent book on the collapse of East Germany. The description of what exactly went on in the different parts of the population and especially at Politburo level, using a wealth of  recently opened sources, makes for fascinating reading. The dynamics of the  rapid breakdown feel like an snowball tunging into an avalanche, leaving  the leadership in total bewilderment and disarray. To the eternal credit of  Gorbatsov, who made clear he would not support the DDR in military action,  no bloody attempt to repression ensued, and so one of the most pervasive  and controlled police states ever created melted away.  It is also  thought-provoking on the subject of what constitutes a state; it is  essentially a psychological concept, and if enough people stop believing in  that state, the state effectively stops functioning and exists no  more.<br />The whole story is better than fiction, it is reality. Highly  recommended.	1999-04-06
US	50995956	RQ6Q94LCSHLKE	0691026033	251993596	Phantoms of Remembrance: Memory and Oblivion at the End of the First Millenium	Books	2	3	12	N	N	some interesting points, generally difficult to read	Perhaps the book is too specialized for me as amateur history-enthusiast (although i found this book via a recommended reading for 1st year history students). I found this book tedious and often did not have much of an idea  what point the author was trying to make here. I liked his discussion of  the role of women and monasteries as institutionalized memory of medieval  society.<br />I am curious to see what others found of this book. I, for one,  will not read this book again.	1999-03-18
US	50995956	R1MH76F4CYUJA9	0300002300	673717051	The Making of the Middle Ages	Books	5	26	30	N	N	magnificent &amp; ground -breaking study	This seminal book is required reading for any serious student of medieval history. The writer seems to have an almost uncanny sense of the psychology of Europe in medieval times, a true creator of the Middle Ages is he. Very  well written, one of the best books i ever read on Medieval Europe.	1999-03-18
US	50995956	RU8ZO77OWHQ3F	0684827891	983899838	From Plato To NATO: The Idea of the West and Its Opponents	Books	4	12	15	N	N	stimulating and (thought- )provoking	I found this book a very interesting read, full of insights, ideas and penetrating discussions on the idea of the West over time and as seen by many different commentators.  As an economist i did not agree with some  rather sweeping statements on economics, and i find the writers' attempt at  supposed 'objectivity', as he claims in the introduction, rather naive; any  person unavoidably has values and judgments, and Mr Gress' values shine  through with a passion. Nothing wrong with that of course, but they need to  be acknowledged and stated as such. That said, i found the broad-ranging  and captivating discussion of the dynamic interplay of  Greek-Roman-Christian and Germanic roots of the West very interesting,  informative and useful. I also much liked his point about the many  different 'Wests' with its fundamental paradoxes that shaped it, and that  it is merely the first society to globalize rather than taking over the  world; the West is the West. As he points out, both claims to  and  criticism of the 'universality' of Western values do not do justice to the  deep historical and societal roots in which the triad of democracy,  science, and capitalism were developed. It does not mean either that other  societies cannot take over its systems or values (notably the capitalist  market production system) but that these values are not a-historical.   Definitely worth-while and stimulating.	1999-03-16
US	50995956	RKBIN77NPUU7H	0521434750	420670617	Knowledge and Persuasion in Economics	Books	4	23	23	N	N	constructive and convincing on economics as a  science	As an macro-economist interested in methodology of economics and the philosophy of science, i found McCloskey's book instructive and interesting. Especially the central role of language in science (as in all  other human communication or, rather, persuasion), with clear links to  American pragmatist philosophers like Rorty is convincingly put forward.  The false and unhelpful dichotomy between 'objective facts' and 'subjective  interpretation' gets a proper thrashing. I wish more economists and other  social scientists would take note of this. Recommended for all economists  with an interest in the foundations of their profession.	1999-01-11
US	50995956	R2Z9YE0MVG00S6	0300071426	731074063	Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition (Yale Intellectual History of the West Se)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	well-written and informative overview	As an amateur history-enthusiast I greaty enjoyed reading this book (twice) for its well-written and generally clear overview of how Western thought developed throughout early and later medieval periods. Starting with brief discussions of the Apologists and the Latin Church Fathers, the topics raised are discussed in a even-handed manner, although i cannot really judge the treatment of the theological debates. I found the latter (for instance on the Trinity) quite hard-going but that is not necessarily the authors's fault. After all, the subject is complex and deals with theological and philosophical subtleties that now hardly seem to merit the passionate debates and the importance attached to it then. At the same time it is clear that these discussions did have a major impact on European foundations and deeply shaped the further course of Western intellectual thought. The part on vernacular literature (Celtic, Old Norse, German, French and English) i enjoyed very much and i think it really added value. Interesting and useful also was the comparison with Byzantine and Islamic cultures. A very good point was the discussion on diversity that became the hallmark of European civilizations. I sometimes missed the economic/political/social context in which these intellectual developments took place, but again that is not necessarily meant as a criticism. Here one would need to take some other studies which would complement this one. The book sets out to show Medieval roots of Western thought and, i think, it does so very well. Useful and not only for beginners.	1999-01-04
US	50995956	R21WNYGMRQCJ3M	0691007691	182350591	On the Medieval Origins of the Modern State	Books	5	23	27	N	N	excellent and clearly written scholarly treatise	This book, as is well known, is a small classic among history books on Medieval Europe since its publication in the early 19seventies. There is a clear and distinct approach of rational government building in 11-14th  century England and France, and how the modern state has roots shaped by  the lessons and experiences of that time. Although the treatise is short,  it is very clearly and concisely written. Obviously, the writer has deep  knowledge of what he is talking about, and reading the book gives a stong  impression that there is much more behind the analysis that he gives.  The  idea of more-or-less rational institutional building of government  functions in middle-to late Medieval times does leave out a lot of other  human elements shaping human governance at that time, while i got a  distinct impression of the smoothness of the whole process overall.  This  seems certainly very debatable. Nevertheless, perhaps the sharp focus is  what makes the book so very clear, informative and enjoyable to read. A  definite must for any serious Medieval history buff...	1998-12-09
US	50995956	R3OV71ZOVPY0O6	0521639905	305690485	The Measure of Reality: Quantification and Western Society, 1250-1600	Books	5	18	20	N	N	clearly and well written, fascinating story	After reading a positive recommendation in The Economist, I read this book twice and greatly enjoyed the rich tapestry of strands that Crosby weaves. With discerning eye and picking essential tendencies he explains how&amp;  why Europe surged ahead from the 11/12th century onward (with a nightmare  pause in the 14th century) in economic and technological development, to  dominate the world for an unprecedented period. He bases his story on many  different elements that came to the fore in an increasingly complex and  dynamic European society of the 12/13th century.  I found his thesis of the  increasing European mindset toward quantification altogether very  convincing. I also liked how he points out the traces of these developments  on our society today. Highly recommendend.	1998-11-25
US	50995956	R299N2DPWDWZX5	0521556864	942767404	Truth and Progress: Philosophical Papers (Philosophical Papers (Cambridge)) (Volume 3)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	fascinating, clear &amp; constructive on language and reality	As a non-philosopher but interested in philosophy and history i found this book very interesting, refreshingly clear and well-written. His ideas of language as not representative of anything but itself, and the  unfruitfulness of considering truth as the approximation of language with  'reality' i found very helpful and pragmatic, cutting across centuries of  philosophical debate that did not seem to get any grip on the world. I have  no idea how new all of this is but it does fit in with modern thinking in  philosophy of science. Although i could not always quite follow the line of  argument in his more technical pieces (which are more for his  fellow-philosophers, i suppose), what he writes is certainly also meant for  a broader public. Thought-provoking and sometimes, at first sight,  outrageous, but consistently engaging and challenging.	1998-11-04
US	50995956	RP5S5CA57QLNT	0805027637	942857327	The Barbarian Conversion: From Paganism to Christianity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	well-written and fascinating account of complex process	This is certainly one of the better books on the vast, complex and multifaceted subject of how Europe slowly turned Christian over a period of a thousand years or so, how in this process the Roman Catholic Church and  European societies deeply shaped each other, and how the Roman Church   turned itself in one of the most enduring and successful transnational  organizations, partly by design, partly by accident (as is usually the case  in history). Fletcher describes, both in telling detail and in broad views,  the proces itself, the problems that were encountered 'in the field' in  very different times and situations in Europe, and poses some fundamental  question about the relation between Christianity and paganism. An excellent  book and i very much enjoyed reading it.	1998-11-04
US	50995956	RMEFMTH3WY6Z1	0684803615	43758276	Millennium: A History of the Last Thousand Years	Books	4	9	10	N	N	fascinating &amp; eclectic overview of 1000 years world history	This book was one of first books i read on history, and it got me hooked  on the subject. I much appreciated the non-eurocentric approach, the broad  swoop with many lively and telling details. Topics such as history of food,  Chinese manufacturing techniques and ancient African empires i thought were  all striking and original. As an economist, i found the discussion of  economic development of 'modern' economies much less convincing.  Overall,  a very good, well-written, and rewarding study.	1998-10-07
US	50995956	R3OA80S50L2YBX	0688123023	451287545	Inventing the Middle Ages	Books	4	7	11	N	N	fascinating and well-written overview of historians	I found this book well-written, informative and unusual in that it gives  both the story of the great historians of the 20th century with the  relevance of their research for their own times and a clear idea of their  work and ideas. It gives an historic 'who's who' in this little academic  world and lots of suggestions of what to read on medieval history. I  greatly enjoyed this book.	1998-09-03
US	50995956	RHTIZM6AY4LGR	0385256124	43758276	Millenium	Books	4	2	4	N	N	the book that started me on history	'Millenium' is the first book on history that I read and because of it I developed a taste for history ever since (I'm now on my 20th book or so). Although as a general overview it is not very useful, I do think the approach away from well-beaten paths and the decidedly un-European bias make a very interesting read. Interesting details of everyday life give a sense of liveliness, and the book is exceptional in providing many pictures that add to the text.	1998-07-20
US	50995956	RRMTA9FVZLLBE	0674076133	824425104	The Black Death and the Transformation of the West	Books	3	7	9	N	N	interesting overview of plague in medieval european society	I am currently reading a series of books on European Medieval history and I found this book an interesting read. I appreciated especially the multi-dimensional discussion on social, economic and political effects of the plague.  The links with modern-day AIDS are thought-provoking. I thought it a pity that the book was also a bit short...	1998-07-20
