US	51014998	R2FA7XT4A73N45	0156006596	522138583	Impossible Saints (Harvest Book)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Trite	One thing that your average self-absorbed modern writer can't seem to grasp is that people can actually be motivated by spiritual and religious devotion. There is a vogue for pretending women saints of the past were secretly dismissive of orthodoxy, and were really closet feminists or Gnostics or sybarites or whatever happens to capture the author's imagination. Yawn. This is just another one of those. I truly wish I had a dollar for every time I heard someone assert that Mary Magdalen or Hildegarde or Teresa was secretly a rebel against the established religious beliefs of her day. The fact that there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever for these fantasies doesn't seem to stop people from having them. <br /> <br />What would really be interesting to read is a book that takes those women for who they actually were: passionate, driven, and orthodox to the core. Hard to fathom, yes, but why not give the truth a whirl?	2005-09-28
US	51014998	R126AXVZRHY826	140271484X	149319530	Quilted Memories: Journaling, Scrapbooking & Creating Keepsakes with Fabric	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Guaranteed to jumpstart your creativity	This is one of those books that you may want to buy two copies of just in case something happens to one of them. It is absolutely full of Lesley's ideas and instructions for making truly remarkable mixed-media quilts that combine the best of art quilting, scrapbooking, and altered books. She gives permission to ignore all the traditional rules about making quilts (like using only 100% cotton and making sure all edges are perfectly even). Her quilts are quirky and yet lovely. And she shows readers how to make their own. <br /> <br />The book is jammed with useful information about finding and/or painting great fabrics, making all kinds of image transfers, coloring and bleaching, using design principles, how to add instant age, and finishing. Then there are detailed looks at memory quilts by various artists, not so much telling how to reproduce them exactly, but explaining the artists' techniques. (I really appreciate that a lot. Too many books tell you how to reproduce their examples exactly, but don't go into general techniques that you can adapt to your own needs. The worst is when they insist you use a certain brand name and don't tell you why!) The showcased quilts cover a range of styles, from sentimental to edgy. It will have you haunting thrift shops and estate sales, hoarding old laces and teatowels, and eyeing the buttons on your children's clothes.  <br /> <br />What a joy of a book.	2005-07-26
US	51014998	R1L2PQXQ5OSPUL	1571202897	670650069	Fusing Fun! Fast Fearless Art Quilts	Books	5	116	116	N	N	If I could give more stars, I would	If you are interested in textile arts, this book is a must-have. Not only is it filled with Laura's gorgeous quilts, it is packed with ideas and methods for making your own easy--EASY!!--fused quilts. <br />I took a class with Laura a few years ago and learned more from that weekend class than I have in many week-long workshops. This book is the same. It isn't long in terms of pages but it is absolutely jammed with techniques and ideas for making wildly original quilts, the easy way. It covers materials, how to fuse fabrics, how to free-cut simple shapes, collaging, making fused pattern sheets and using them in designs, adapting traditional designs, making a woodcut-type quilt, using the leftover snips of fused fabric, and of course, finishing the quilt. And each technique is followed by ideas for variations so you can explore your own ideas.  <br /> <br />This book is all about making art quilting spontaneous and fun. If you have been afraid of making art quilts because they seemed too technically difficult, then get this book. It will get rid of all the hard stuff and allow you to explore lots of different approaches to artmaking with fabric. No more tedious matching seams! No more painstaking pinning! Just color and pattern and fun. What more could a quilter ask? <br /> <br />If you can only afford one or two textile arts books this year, this one should be at the top of your list.	2005-07-26
US	51014998	R390F5W7TN3HF5	0441007813	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	mixed feelings	On the one hand, the whole premise is incredibly imaginative--a world just like our own but where preternatural creatures are something society has to cope with, and where a bureaucracy has grown up to deal with them. <br /> <br />But about halfway through the book, I started to get a weird feeling that the same scenes were being played out over and over. Here's how it goes: there is a scene between Anita and some guy in which she proves that she is as ballsy as he is. Then there is a scene in which unspeakable horrors are revealed or committed. Then there is a scene with strong sexual overtones between Anita and some guy. Then Anita and another character discuss weapons or holsters or bullets. Rinse. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat. <br /> <br />Maybe this wasn't that great a choice for a first Anita Blake story. But another thing that drove me nuts was that no one bothered to edit the book. It was full of bizarre mispellings and grammatical howlers. I mean really--couldn't SOMEBODY have caught \\"psycoprenia\\" for \\"schizophrenia?\\" That kind of thing stops you right in the middle of the narrative while you try to figure out what is being said. <br /> <br />I guess I'll give the author one more chance to redeem herself, because there is a lot of potential there, but I sure hope the next book of hers I read is a lot better crafted and better edited.	2005-07-12
US	51014998	R1KZBLI61GVYUT	0967089751	279919284	The Whole Soy Story: The Dark Side of America's Favorite Health Food	Books	1	371	549	N	N	suspicious	This is one of those \\"debunking\\" books that periodically make a little splash and then disappear. In the case of this book, it is very interesting to note a peculiar set of facts about the many glowing reviews it has garnered: they are almost all by people who have only posted the one review, they are all superlative, and they all say substantially the same thing. Not only that, they tend to be somewhat incestuous, recommending each other's work or books by the same small publishing house. What an astounding coincidence. <br /> <br />The truth is that this book is published by a small publishing company whose other offerings also include, surprise surprise, a book extolling the virtues of dairy, and another one \\"debunking\\" the idea that cholesterol is bad for you. Hm. I am noting a trend here. Wonder if there is any connection to the dairy industry? <br /> <br />This book is just too slanted and too hysterical to take seriously. You're better off doing your own research. There is plenty of information out there, by reputable academics, and it's worth drawing your own conclusions rather than relying on this rather dubious example of polemics.	2005-07-01
US	51014998	R29LGX7ETRRPW	0898707323	335524772	Prodigal Daughters: Catholic Women Come Home to the Church	Books	2	27	41	N	N	not so much spiritual as political	I am myself a woman who has returned to the Church, and have often referred to myself as a \\"Prodigal Daughter,\\" so I was delighted to see this book. But it soon became clear, a few pages into the first story, that this book is not so much about the joy of returning to Christ's family as it is about how awful those \\"other people\\" are--those other people being feminists and liberals. In other words, it is a book of polemic, not spirituality. I was sorely disappointed. Though there are some uplifting stories, overall it reminds me more of a rather snarky right-wing blog than anything else. I quit reading it, frankly, because it failed my basic test for spiritual reading: Does this increase my faith? Or does it make me feel like an outsider? I am not particularly liberal or conservative, but polemic from either side just irritates me rather than making me feel closer to God. Save your money and read freerepublic.com, if you want diatribes against the left. If you want a book that will bring you closer to the Lord, I suggest \\"The Interior Castle\\" or \\"Introduction to the Devout Life.\\"	2005-06-27
US	51014998	R3HWCE5QKUST6I	0826410456	826485001	Psalms for Praying: An Invitation to Wholeness	Books	5	42	42	N	N	This book got me through a terrible time	About two years ago I got the shock of my life when what I thought was appendicitis turned out to be cancer. As soon as I woke up from the anesthesia and learned the truth I knew I needed to reconnect with God at a level I never had before. I have always loved the Psalms but they seemed a little too far from my experience in my situation. Then I found this book.  <br /> <br />It is a wonderful recasting of the Psalms in a way that opened my heart and my soul to the love of God in exactly the way I needed. When you are going through cancer treatment, one of the hardest things to deal with is fear. It can easily take over your spirit. This book recognizes that fear is a bigger enemy to most modern people than invading Philistines are. It also makes the reader think about God in a new way by avoiding a lot of the titles for God that we all have heard so many times they have become meaningless, and recognizing that God's very nature is love. <br /> <br />If you are suffering through a difficult time, or know someone who is, this book is a valuable help. I have found such comfort in it in some of the scariest times of my life. I can't recommend it highly enough.	2005-03-31
US	51014998	RUQUNXPPXR9TV	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	3	7	7	N	N	So give them a divorce already	This would actually have been pretty good except for the fact that Deborah and St. James spent the whole book having huge and tedious misunderstandings with each other. It would be a big relief if one or the other of them just left the series. Actually, even before this book, the whole St. James menage bugged me--a guy marries his servant's daughter but the father continues to wait on the husband?? Yecch. Feudal lords would have been ashamed. <br /> <br />But if you skip over the marital disunity parts, the rest of the book is very tightly plotted and the details about Guernsey are fascinating. <br /> <br />	2005-03-16
US	51014998	R1X5L36WLT8VPQ	1564969622	895718932	Collage for the Soul: Expressing Hopes and Dreams Through Art	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A wonderful resource	This is a terrific book for anyone interested in collage as an art as opposed to a craft. There is a wide range of work displayed, covering a number of different styles. Interspersed with the projects in the book are several discussions of such techniques and processes as using encaustics, finding symbols, using different means of transforming papers, transferring images, using collage as a medium for your memoirs, etc. There are also useful and inspiring sidebars throughout that help the artist come up with ideas and techniques they may never have thought of before. <br /> <br />AN earlier reviewer objects to the fact that the directions for the projects are not extremely precise. I consider that one of the great strengths of the book--I am not interested in recreating the exact piece of art displayed, I want to learn new methods to interpret my own ideas. There are some books and magazines out there that tell you exactly what brand name products to use in exactly which colors. Those books are intended for a different audience. This book is meant for those who are not afraid to experiment and learn. It encourages the reader to try new processes and new approaches, rather than handing out exact formulas.  <br /> <br />Here are just some of the techniques covered in various projects: assemblage, encaustic, monotype, oil pastels, tissue-paper lamination, using foraged natural materials, making a collaged art doll, paper-pulp casting, transferring photos to different surfaces, sanding back to reveal underlayers... There is a tremendous amount to be learned from this book. It is not quite as showy as True Colors, but it serves a different purpose. True Colors, as delightful as it is, is primarily eye candy, and is limited to altered books. Collage For The SOul covers a much wider spectrum of collage work, and provides much more information on techniques for the artist.  <br /> <br />I recommend this book and Gerald Brommer's collage book as THE two to own, if you can only have two. I can hardly wait for the next collage book by the same team, which is due out soon.	2005-01-23
US	51014998	R23HSWOEADPUYO	0743452887	43796672	Hoax: A Novel (Tanenbaum, Robert) (A BUTCH KARP-MARLENE CIAMPI THRILLER)	Books	1	38	42	N	N	a Milli Vanilli experience	I have been a faithful and devoted reader of Tanenbaum's books for a long time. He was the one thriller writer whose books I would pounce on and buy (or beg or borrow or steal) without even bothering to read the blurb on the inside flap.  <br /> <br />Imagine my surprise when I started reading this newest Tanenbaum, only to discover that it was, apparently, a counterfeit. Within a few pages I had the eerie sensation that though the characters had familiar names, they were simply not the same people I had come to know and love. And the style! Yikes! One of the great pleasure of a Tanenbaum novel has always been the clever repartee, the tongue-in-cheek wit, the terrific use of irony. Lo and behold, all had disappeared from sight. Instead, what I found was clumsy and--dare I say it--amateurish writing that should never have seen the light of day. Marlene, my all-time favorite character in any thriller, has turned from a stylish, smart, sassy New Yorker to a rather boring and wooden two-dimensional parody of herself. Butch is reduced to maundering about the past. The kids are mere shadows of their former selves, and the plotting, sequencing, and dialogue are not worthy of a high-school creative writing class. <br /> <br />So I quickly concluded that Tanenbaum must have hired a ghost to churn this one out. Then I learned from the Internet, to my horror, that all the wit and pizzazz of the earlier books had been due to the REAL writer, Michael Gruber, who had a parting of the ways with the fake writer, whose only claim to fame is that his name is in fact Robert Tanenbaum. He may be a decent lawyer, I don't know, but he is no writer. So the problem is not that Tanenbaum HIRED a ghost, it's that the real writer of the old Tanenbaums finally came to his senses and struck out on his own. <br />Wow. I feel betrayed. This is SO Milli Vanilli. Don't buy this book unless you are teaching a class in creative writing and ethics and need an example of how NOT to do things. Otherwise, just figure that Butch and Marlene and Lucy and Zak and Giancarlo and Guma and all the other wonderful, complex, brilliant characters died on 9/11. Mourn their loss, and then start reading Gruber's books.	2005-01-20
US	51014998	R1WZJZAD6DU9XO	0807072583	735721840	Shelf Life: Romance, Mystery, Drama and Other Page-Turning Adventures from a Year in a Bookstore	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Not a book, a long article	I was quite excited to find this book, as I have been to the bookstore described, not far from where I live, and because I have also worked in a bookstore and recovered from cancer. I was disappointed to discover that it is really more of a lightweight long article than a book, with lots of lists in lieu of real content and a slightly arch tone that I began to find irritating quickly. I didn't finish it. Borrow it from the library if you are looking for a very quick and mildly entertaining read, and are able to overlook the tone; otherwise don't waste your money.	2005-01-18
US	51014998	RZD8P9MPBI49R	1571202382	976424017	Thinking Outside the Block: Step by Step to Dynamic Quilts	Books	5	105	108	N	N	a must-have classic	Once every few years a quilt book comes out that completely changes the way you think about making quilts. This is one of those books. I just got my copy a few days ago and I am already wearing it out. It is full of ways to make beautiful, one-of-a- kind quilts easily and intuitively. After taking you through some vital information about choosing fabrics, Sandi has you start with a familiar star block, and go on to add a few &quot;transition&quot; blocks that make your stars suddenly turn into a whole new kind of quilt. Then you learn how to create all kinds of new free-spirited designs using methods that are as fun as they are easy. For example, Sandi has you cut a simple square or block in a couple of places and insert contrasting strips, then cut again and use the pieces in a variety of ways. She offers several methods and variations for &quot;cutting double,&quot; in which you freehand-cut two blocks at once and then trade alternate pieces, and she offers a plan for making gorgeous strip-pieced garden quilts that will have you pulling out all your large-scale florals. There is also advice on setting up a group, on working in series, and on quilting collaboratively. And take a look at the fabrics Sandi uses! Her mix of hand-dyes, batiks, and commercial fabrics is spectacular, and a valuable lesson in itself. <BR>This is not a book for those who like traditional, matchy-matchy quilts, but if you love making interesting and original works of quilt art, this book is a dream come true.	2004-04-13
US	51014998	RJYWBYU4FHDYW	0970629303	184090393	Fabulous Lo-Carb Cuisine	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best little cookbook for low-carbers	I own a bunch of low-carb cookbooks, most of which are bigger than this one, but the recipes in here are ones that I keep using over and over. Some readers have complained that there isn't enough variety, but when I look at the bigger and more expensive cookbooks I own, I realize I may only use one or two recipes from them, while this one has a bunch of yummy, realistic recipes that don't taste fake. (By realistic I mean recipes that don't call for odd specialty ingredients or for tiny amounts of some perishable item you'll end up throwing out.) Actually, if the only two recipes in it were the cauliflower with cheese and the kung pao chicken, it would be worth the price. For anyone past the Induction stage of the Atkins diet, this cookbook could well become the mainstay of your cooking repertoire.	2004-03-07
US	51014998	R2MYGQ2CGY90C5	0823030563	349657778	Mecha Mania: How to Draw Warrior Robots, Cool Spaceships, and Military Vehicles (Christopher Hart Titles)	Books	1	8	9	N	N	No help at all	What is the point of this book? Each of the drawings gives just three steps, and the beginning step is very complex--there is no help in figuring out what basic shapes go into it, and it seems like the only thing you can do is copy exactly what the author has done. I wanted something that would teach me to draw this type of character, and instead I just got a book showing off the author's drawings. If it is supposed to be just a showcase, it should be called that--don't try to fool people into thinking it is a way to learn anything.	2004-02-20
US	51014998	R2O4MR6N81FZPJ	1574328263	674327229	Quilters Playtime: Games with Fabrics	Books	5	77	77	N	N	Wonderful fun for adventurous quilters	I am a quilter who absolutely loves playing with fabric and hates measuring. Dianne's book is my dream workbook--it's full of ways to play with your fabrics and learn new approaches to creating a beautiful quilt, and encourages a playful, risk-taking spirit.<br />The book is divided into different &quot;games,&quot; like Hopscotch, where you create a series of narrow, then wide, then narrow pieces that really do look like the hopscotch boards of our childhood; Tiddlywinks, with multicolored concentric ovals and circles arranged in patterns; Musical Chairs, with colors shifting from skewed block to skewed block in an orderly progression (until you throw in a Wild Card), and lots more. The best part is, Dianne shows you how to do each kind of improvisational piecing and then sets you free with lots of ideas and examples, so you can create something that is totally your own. The photos in the book are of wonderfully free-spirited quilts by several different quilters, and are in a lot of color schemes, though most are bright. Dianne encourages experimentation and ornamentation--there are plenty of beads, buttons, dangles and whirligigs here--and helps you get over your fear of cutting into big pieces of beautiful yardage by suggesting you &quot;sneak up on them&quot; and whack them into pieces, which then can go into a gloriously jumbled scrap basket that will trigger new ideas and combinations.<BR>I just wish Amazon would post a cover photo and a &quot;Take A Look Inside&quot; section of the book. If you have any interest at all in improvisational quilting, you MUST get this book.	2004-02-20
US	51014998	R3VL3LEFNSJ3I3	0876308000	141926828	Adventures In Fast Forward: Life, Love, and Work for the ADD Adult	Books	2	50	55	N	N	There are better resources out there	As an adult with ADD myself, I have read a lot of the books that are out there, especially the ones that are about practical ways of dealing with the situation (I refuse to call it a &quot;condition,&quot; like some kind of disease). This one was disappointing. I envy the earlier reviewers who found this book helpful--apparently they saw something in here that I did not. For example, for me, most traditional ways of getting organized, such as using day-runners or electronic schedulers, simply don't work--I leave them behind, and I forget to enter information into them, and then I feel terrible about my disorganization. (I currently have about 5 dusty, outdated dayrunners in a box, adding to the clutter--and the guilt.) Then when I read the section about relationships in this book, I ended up feeling kind of uneasy. There is a bit of an unspoken message that anyone who puts up with ADDers is a  virtuous and worthy soul (i.e. a martyr). Years ago I worked in the social services field, running a program for mentally retarded folks with behavior management problems, and somehow the tone of this book is very reminiscent of the tone the social workers used when talking to our clients--a little too simplistic, a little too patient, a little too patronizing.  Maybe I just respond much better to books written by people who have ADD themselves than to ones written by social workers or psychologists, or to books that steer clear of value judgments, even unspoken ones.  I would recommend &quot;View From The Cliff,&quot; &quot;Healing ADD,&quot; &quot;Conquering Chronic Disorganization,&quot; and even &quot;The Kitchen Sink Papers&quot; as offering much more practical information on dealing with the difficulties ADD can create in life, and that recognize that people with ADD don't like being &quot;managed.&quot; We just want concrete ways to adapt our style of doing things to cope with the demands our current society makes.	2004-02-14
US	51014998	RLVXWDL4JEUOE	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	1	75	150	N	N	Shoddy scholarship	There has been quite a vogue for Irenaeus-bashing in the last several years. He was the second-century bishop who spearheaded the movement to limit the canon of gospels to the four we now include in the New Testament, and one of the pricipal targets of Pagels's ire. She states that Irenaeus's efforts to establish a unified church were anti-creativity and anti-originality, which rather misses the point. Were the Gospels intended as exercises in artistic fulfillment, or as ways to show seekers the path to God through story? The idea was to provide a means for communicating what the writers presumably saw as critical truths, not to allow them a forum for exercising their originality. <br />Pagels makes any number of totally unsupported statements and conclusions throughout this somewhat rambling book, and then goes on to treat them as fact. For example, she asserts that the depiction of Thomas as &quot;doubting&quot; was a clever plot on the part of Irenaeus's orthodox party to discredit Thomas. Huh? If that is the case, why is the Catholic Church (which has a pretty heavy stake in orthodoxy) in the habit of referring to him as Saint Thomas, and naming churches after him? It is poor scholarship to make such an assertion with absolutely no facts to back it up. <br />I am also rather taken aback by her very close-minded ideas of what other contemporary Christians believe. She states flatly that &quot;most&quot; New Testament scholars now believe that the whole Nativity story was made up as a kind of retrofitted history, attempting to make the story of Jesus fit with prophecy. Maybe that is what scholars with offices next to hers believe, but there are a lot of scholars outside her narrow world who don't agree.<br />Another example: she repeatedly implies that the difference between the order of events in the gospel of John and the order in the synoptic gospels is proof that John is fabricated. Actually, if Pagels were to read two current news accounts of the same event put out by two different news agancies, ahe might realize that differences in the order of events as recounted are not exactly proof of anything.<br />The worst aspect of the book, though, is the way Pagels twists the writings of the Gnostics to suit her agenda. The Gnostics were devoted to the idea that the truth is only revealed to a select few, that matter (including flesh and the childbirth that engenders flesh) is a burden that keeps the select from full realization, and that there exists a rather bizarre heavenly hierarchy of emanations and spirits, in which (among other things) the God of the Old Testament is a twisted and evil mistake.  These core ideas of Gnosticism are conveniently left out or only hinted at. <br />I suspect that the idea of gaining access to &quot;secret&quot; writings and doctrines was--and is--very appealing to certain mentalities, and there does seem to be a fashion every so often for that kind of thing (for example, the late nineteenth century proliferation of organizations with secret initiations, including most of the fraternities currently on American campuses). A number of New Age ideas, such as the so-called &quot;ascended masters,&quot;  also seem to be examples of this phenomenon. Ultimately such secret groups, promising a special level of enlightenment or prestige to the chosen few, are elitist and utterly antithetical to the very heart of Christianity. As I continued reading this book, I found myself growing more and more appreciative of Irenaeus. I can't help but wonder--if the New Testament had allowed all the peculiar documents floating around in the first centuries after Christ to become part of the canon, as Pagels seems to wish had happened, would Christianity even still exist? Given the content of many of those early Gnostic writings, it seems highly likely that it would have gone the way of the cult of Cybele.	2003-09-28
US	51014998	R3MG3J1XTOTFOX	0440220696	92010175	Invasion of Privacy (Nina Reilly)	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Couldn't finish	I love good thrillers, and am willing to put up with a few flaws for the sake of a good story. But I had to stop reading this one. There were just too many situations where the characters behaved in completely implausible ways. For example: when the main character Nina's 11-year-old son goes missing, her brother tries to get her to go out to dinner. I cannot imagine that idea even crossing the mind of any actual human I have ever met. Later, while the son is still missing, Nina is attacked and her belongings destroyed by her erstwhile client. In a piece of truly extraordinary dialogue, our heroine declines to inform the police who did it and asks the client whether she did it &quot;because of the case.&quot; (A case which Nina had just won for the client.) The client proceeds to verbally attack Nina, who backs down. What?? I am inclined to think the heroine should have been named Ninny--no one that spineless could have made it past the first two weeks of law school, or at least not the one I attended. My capacity for suspending disbelief was pushed far past the breaking point with this silly book.	2003-07-30
US	51014998	R3VEG2SGR89BOT	1564774163	616784125	Nickel Quilts: Great Designs from 5-inch Scraps	Books	5	79	79	N	N	Great book for fabric pack-rats	If you are like me, you have fabric pieces of all sizes, from tiny scraps to major yardage, stashed on shelves and in boxes and drawers all over your house. This book is perfect for people like us. The quilts are beautiful and surprisingly simple to construct, for the most part. The authors devote the first part of the book to a series of techniques for converting 5\\" squares into checkerboard blocks, half-square triangle blocks, quarter-square triangle blocks, and \\"picket fences\\" as efficiently as possible. These directions are very complete and well explained. They also suggest buying a little extra fabric each time you shop, and ctting off a five-inch strip right away. Plus they give great instructions on how to hold a 5-inch square swap, including how to keep track of everybody's contributions. <br />Then, in the second part, they give directions for a series of quilts from very easy to a little more complicated (though none of them are actually difficult). Even the easiest quilts are surprisingly complex-looking, and all of them are designed to be made in three sizes. The color scheme of most of the quilts shown is medium-to-dark traditional prints on cream, but there is no reason not to choose a completely different scheme. (I am thinking about oversize splashy prints on a black-and-white background for one of the simpler quilts, for example, or bright plaids on batik.) Now all I have to do is start cutting...	2002-03-14
US	51014998	R353YZM155C3VD	1564774090	83907099	The Casual Quilter: 6 Stress-Free Projects	Books	5	21	21	N	N	great book for any quilter	Whether you are just getting started quilting or have been doing it for a while, this book is a great addition to your library. The author's advice is a wonderful antidote to all the worrisome quilt-police books that tell you that matching points perfectly is the be-all and end-all of a quilter's existence. Ms. Strobel believes in a relaxed and fun approach that lets you enjoy the process and still come out with some very goodlooking quilts. The projects are all written for various sizes, and are very doable, unlike all the ones you see in other books that have you cutting 782 perfect parallelograms from 86 fabrics and sewing them together in complex order in set-in seams. If you want  projects that will actually get done, look no farther. As my busy sister says, this book is the &quot;Knitting Without Tears&quot; of quilting--which is high praise coming from a former knitter.	2002-03-13
US	51014998	R76UKI6DG3ZEW	0062517155	541861487	Goddess Initiation: A Practical Celtic Program for Soul-Healing, Self-Fulfillment & Wild Wisdom	Books	2	107	128	N	N	Such a disappointment	I am a member of a Goddess-centered women's circle and am always looking for good materials for our group. When I read the reviews of this book I decided to order it, thinking that the invocations, prayers, and exercises would be great new resources. Sadly, this book just does not measure up to the many other excellent Goddess books out there. <br />First of all, the very fact that the author has sought and obtained a service mark for her &quot;Third Way&quot; is grating. Right off, this smacks of an unpleasant commercialism. By and large, I have noticed, bona fide spiritual systems and guides are not that concerned with protecting their intellectual property rights through trademarks and service marks. They are more concerned with getting their message to as many people as possible. Throughout the book, I get the sense that the author is extremely interested in taking credit for starting a wholly new and revolutionary system, and in getting the recognition she feels is her due.<br />Second, the author claims to have spent seven years in intense study of Celtic shamanism. What on earth took so long? Med school is four years, and there is a LOT more material. Let's face it, her &quot;system&quot; is neither Celtic nor shamanism. It is a shallow amalgam of several other spiritual systems mixed with some pop psychology. True Celtic spirituality, what little we know of it, is quite different from the facile and purely American ideas she brings forward. And shamanism's core lies in the trance journeys that seem to be mere afterthoughts here. <br />De Grandis keeps saying that God tells her things--in particular, things that people who come to her for guidance should do. I don't know about anybody else, but in these days of religious fanaticism, anybody who claims to have clear and certain knowledge of what God wants makes me VERY nervous. (If someone tells me that God wants me to do something, I make it a policy to run the other way.) (By the way, she calls God &quot;her&quot;--which is right up there with saying &quot;When Man first stepped out of her cave&quot;-- but never calls the Goddess &quot;him,&quot; I notice. So much for gender blindness.)<br />The meditations and invocations are unfocused and just don't measure up to the material created by such people as Starhawk and Barbara Ardinger. For example, in the Kissed By a Star meditation, she does not lay any meditative groundwork through relaxation techniques or trance induction, just tells readers to &quot;imagine a star&quot; and instructs us to send our blocks to the star to be kissed and healed. The description of this and other meditations is so ungracefully written that it is hard to pluck out the worthwhile material from the dross. Maybe I feel disappointed because it is a very good idea for a meditation, it just doesn't live up to its promise--a problem with virtually every exercise in the book.<br />I was also annoyed yet amused by the description of how the author was ready to undergo an elaborate and awe-inspiring initiation with another spiritual teacher in the supposedly ancient Faery tradition (which in truth dates back some 80-90 years at most, despite its adherents' claims) but the two had some doctrinal falling out on the day of the big event and he pettishly refused to initiate her. Is this supposed to inspire us? She also brags about how she had, all on her own, come up with a self-initiation that was almost the same as the terribly powerful Faery initiation that supposedly can drive one mad if done wrong. When I read that, my BS Warning Alert System went into the red zone. I am by no means unaware of the power of a well-done ritual, having participated in and even created some myself, but let's be real here.<br />The book is full of stray bits of misinformation, like the author's contention that the word &quot;wine&quot; in many ancient spiritual texts is a mistranslation and really was supposed to be &quot;milk.&quot; Where on earth did she get that? Theword for &quot;wine&quot; is one of those concrete and easy-to-check words that is almost impossible to mistranslate: Is she suggesting that Dionysius got inebriated on milk? I can understand and sympathize if she chooses not to use alcohol, but for heaven's sake, just say so, don't make things up.<br />The biggest problem, though, is the lack of any real spiritual core here. De Grandis calls herself a spiritual healer, but a lot of the book is taken up with anecdotes of superficial psychotherapy (even though she insists that's not what she does). If a practitioner tells her client that his biggest issue is getting rid of the negative messages from his father, for example, you can call it anything you want, but that's psychotherapy. <br />I bought this hoping to find a clear and spiritually powerful method of gaining greater insight into the Goddess, and instead got a pastiche of not-very-original material in a rather disorganized jumble. The only reason I gave this book two stars instead of one is that I don't think the author is actually malicious. I am saddened, though, to see the deeply meaningful and rich traditions of the Goddess cheapened by this obvious commercialism.	2002-03-04
US	51014998	R2YPJ8RZ560N0J	0425180638	109258524	The Last Precinct: Scarpetta (Book 11)	Books	1	22	23	N	N	Paranoia in novel form	I have read all of Cornwell's books, even the strange Judy Hammer ones, and this is the one that is going to make me give them up. If I had picked this one up first I would never have read another one. Kay Scarpetta is so drenched in paranoia, Marino so nasty, and Scarpetta's psychologist friend so completely venal and treacherous that I found myself hoping some character would come along and just finish them all off.  The reader is set up to expect that the &quot;Last Precinct,&quot; a private firm started by the suddenly and miraculously wealthy Lucy, would play a big role, but other than providing Lucy with an excuse to get a helicopter, it has nothing to do with the plot. Instead, the plot seems to be that all of the antagonists in all of the Scarpetta novels turn out to have been in league with each other to set Scarpetta up. In the next novel it will no doubt turn out that they secretly implanted an electronic monitoring device in her brain, and she has to wear a foil hat to keep it from transmitting. Cornwell's earlier novels, though grim, were at least well plotted and entertaining. This one is just all over the place. How did it get past her editor? I wish Cornwell would take a long vacation and a few tranquilizers before she writes another word, and that the publisher would hire editors who know what they're doing.	2001-07-05
US	51014998	R2PFRAYKMA6HGL	0465071821	27193388	PC, M.D.: How Political Correctness Is Corrupting Medicine	Books	2	42	85	N	N	Too flawed to work	The subject of this book, namely how politics influences health care, is one that every American should be thinking about. Sadly, though, Dr. Satel is so strident and so intent on proving her own political point that she misses the mark. The tone of the book is so redolent with the usual right-wing polemic that it is hard to read, if one is looking for a balanced assessment of the state of our health care system, instead of a preaching-to-the-choir attack. I notice, too, that all of the groups she attacks are in some way a threat to her personal autonomy and power as a doctor. Mental patients having a say in their own care? Heaven forbid! Doctor knows best, right, Dr. Satel? Nurses getting rid of the old handmaiden paradigm and acting like educated healthcare professionals? No, no! Dr. Satel might not get the instant obedience she needs! I also get thoroughly sick of her using the word &quot;feminist&quot; like it's a synonym for &quot;raving monster of liberal depravity.&quot; If it weren't for the actions of a whole lot of feminists, Dr. Satel, you would not have been allowed into med school in the first place.  The only reason I don't give this book one star instead of two is that at least it does bring up some issues that need to be looked at. Yes, political trends have a huge impact on how health care is delivered. But this wholesale and ultimately rather silly attack, supported by flimsy evidence and a lot of rightist buzzwords, is hardly the way to get the discussion going. By the way, I notice that a lot of previous reviews are completely focused on the academic credentials of one of the editorial reviewers. Now that's one of the finest examples of red-herring logic I've ever seen. What does that have to do with the merits or lack thereof of this book?	2001-05-09
US	51014998	R12RBDBUJY6DWL	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	1	9	12	N	N	so bad it's embarrassing	I had just finished a book by Robert Tanenbaum when I started reading this. The contrast between the two in terms of quality of writing, plot, characterization, and even punctuation (e.g. Patterson's bizarre overuse of italics)is so huge it seems ridiculous to even consider them as being the same genre. I don't understand how Patterson's books keep making the bestseller list. The plot in this one is poorly laid out, and the characters do things that are not only psychologically unlikely--like when the neurosurgeon chats about how much he loves his work before giving the main character the news that his daughter has a potentially fatal brain tumor--but totally unrealistic in terms of the real world. The New York cops putting a D.C. cop in charge of part of a major operation to capture a criminal in New York? Yeah, right. And since when does this country have a &quot;Secretary of Justice?&quot; Maybe the most annoying thing is the whole issue of race. Patterson, who is white, has created a character in Cross who seems to regard the fact that he is African American as a sort of charming hobby. Isn't anybody else bothered by this? And the ending--this kind of inexplicable plot twist appears to be just a way to eke out a few more pages, as far as I can tell. All in all, this book reminds me of the kind of story a 14-year-old boy would come up with. Maybe that's who is buying Patterson's books--perhaps they should be put in the &quot;young adult&quot; section.	2001-04-20
US	51014998	R1AIVOR0FYFW6O	0062516477	344099532	The Four Witnesses : The Rebel, the Rabbi, the Chronicler, and the Mystic -- Why the Gospels Present Strikingly Different Visions of Jesus	Books	2	12	15	N	N	huh?	Like other reviewers, I was dismayed by the poor writing style. I found myself reading the same sentences over and over, without ever figuring out what the point was. But even overlooking the problems with the style, the content is sparse. I reread the section on Mark several times and couldn't really find much to support the author's thesis about his motivations and political stance, even though I know from other readings that the evidence is there. All in all this turned out to be quite a disappointment, especially since this is a topic that merits a far deeper and more carefully thought out exploration than one can find here.	2001-04-12
US	51014998	R3HMNOFOTLJLGS	1579543308	290636692	Innovative Piecing (Rodale's Successful Quilting Library)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Get this book!	If you have any interest in learning new ways to make your quilts interesting and original, this is the book for you. It gives clear, full-color directions on techniques like skewed piecing, super-easy Drunkard's Path blocks, jigsaw piecing, and curved piecing done several ways (with templates, with rotary-cut gentle curves, with topstitching, and sharp curves with register marks.) It is great to use with batiks and hand-dyes, or with your more unusual prints. I can hardly wait to get started!	2001-01-17
US	51014998	R10HIE8CKX7BFN	0844220825	179750868	Quilt Studio : Innovative Techniques for Confident and Creative Quiltmaking and Design	Books	2	45	48	N	N	Disappointing	I ordered this book sight unseen, since the description of it sounded like the kind of quilting book I most cherish: one with an emphasis on originality and creativity, but that was more than just a coffee-table book. I am always looking for books that combine inspiration with how-to. <br />I really wanted to like it when it arrived but of all the many art quilt books I own it is the most irritating. The author's style seems to have frozen in place sometime back in about 1980, when very graphics-influenced quilts in cool solids were all the rage. I get the impression that the author bought about 5 giant bolts of solid blue, black, and white sometime around then and has been using them since. I keep trying to overlook the photos and concentrate on the text but the information is too scattered and poorly organized to really be of much help. I get the feeling the author takes herself very very seriously as an artist and that this book is more about her creative ego than about quilting. If you are in the market for a wonderful book combining technique with artistry, you're much better off with Quilting Masterclass.	2001-01-15
US	51014998	R2FXZJYGY7T4VT	1564773272	525775247	Quilting Masterclass: Inspirations and Techniques from the Experts	Books	5	68	68	N	N	A must-have book	If you have any interest in contemporary or art quilts, this is one of the best books to come out in years, and well worth the price. It has dozens of gorgeous quilts by some of the best quilt artists in the world, beautifully photographed in full color. But what makes this book so special and so different is that each quilt is also accompanied by tips and techniques, giving pointers on exactly how it was made. There are a number of very nice art quilt books out there that showcase the quilts themselves, and a few technique books that focus on a single artist's methods, but this is the first book to combine those two approaches into one treasure-trove. Read this book with notebook and colored pencils in hand--practically every page will give you a new idea for a quilt.	2000-10-05
US	51014998	R12IOMIKTDDTBI	1580622658	250583926	The $100,000 Writer	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A mixed bag	On one hand this book has lots of excellent information: for example,  there are plenty of insider tips that can only come from experience, such  as the advice never to let on when a project only takes an afternoon to do,  since the customer will then undervalue your services. It also has a lot of  ideas on expanding the list of services you can offer customers, for  example with media lists. But there are some pieces of advice that are just  plain terrible: the author suggests that writers new to freelancing take on  an apprenticeship position with an established freelancer, working for a  pittance or even for nothing. That is very bad advice--it's hard to imagine  a better recipe for ill feelings when the newbie decides to go off on his  or her own. Who gets the customers? Far better for a newbie to get work at  nonprofits or small local businesses as a way to break in. Besides, would a  lawyer fresh out of law school give away her services at an established law  firm? Hardly. Writers have a hard enough time taking themselves seriously  without this kind of bad advice. Also, there are several other books out  there on the same topic but none of them comes across as being quite so  crassly interested in squeezing every possible dime out of the customers as  this one. If we want corporate customers to respect us, we have to respect  them. I appreciate the information in this book a lot but I get depressed  at the tone in which it is delivered.	2000-08-09
US	51014998	R3ARDJWMPZKY8K	0609800981	516634761	Poemcrazy: Freeing Your Life with Words	Books	5	125	126	N	N	Reading this is like striking oil	I was one of five people who started a weekly writing group last year. At first we languished a bit, trying to find a way to get ourselves going. Then one week I brought in my little stash of word tickets I had made after reading Poemcrazy. It was as though a sudden rain had made the desert  bloom. We have been pouring out poems and stories and vignettes at a rare  clip ever since.<br /> One of the most important things about the techniques  the author presents is that they force one away from contemplating one's  own belly-button, so to speak, and bring one's attention to the limitless  possibilities for poetry that spring forth when chance words and phrases  put the imagination in overdrive. Too often writers of my generation think  that poetry has to be about our deepest and most dramatic emotions, which  often leads to some pretty deadly stuff being committed to paper. But when  you pull out word tickets that say things like &quot;fronds&quot; and  &quot;slashed&quot; and &quot;cutting up the remnants,&quot; it's hard to  be self-absorbed. In fact, it's hard to be anything but deeply  original.<br />Everyone I have introduced to the author's exercises and  methods has fallen in love with them. Even my six-year-old nephew became  enamored and proceeded to rename everything and everyone in his  environment--a procedure that created some hilarious yet apposite new  names. (I am now &quot;Needs to sing,&quot; his sister is  &quot;Pistachio,&quot; his grandmother is &quot;Finding  secrets....&quot;)<br />I adore this book.	2000-04-25
US	51014998	R2RED8DX0SE6ID	0060195428	30718040	Original Self: Living with Paradox and Originality	Books	4	113	118	N	N	Understands and extols the value of paradox	By an odd chance I read this book right after I finished reading &quot;Tuesdays With Morrie.&quot; There is no comparison--where &quot;Tuesdays&quot; is trite and overhyped, dishing out tired truisms as  though they were newly discovered insights, this book has so much depth and  understated richness that I had to put it down every few paragraphs to  allow the words to sink in slowly. It is the opposite of trite in every  way.<br />My only quibble is with the section in which the author discusses  depression. He advises not running to a doctor for medication, and instead  allowing the pain to teach its lessons. I agree with that in cases where a  person is sad or grief-stricken. But in cases of actual clinical  depression, that can be dangerous advice. Clinical depression is an illness  with a high mortality rate, comparable to tuberculosis, say, or malaria.  Would anyone advise a person with the symptoms of tuberculosis to hold off  seeking medication? <br />But the main message of the book is quietly intense.  Allowing other people to be different from what we expect them to be,  allowing ourselves to be imperfect, not striving all the time, accepting  that we are sometimes unloving and needy as well as creative and  accomplished--that is powerful and earthy stuff. And it is conveyed without  cliche and without sentimentality. <br />The gentle woodcut illustrations are  a perfect addition to the text--both are quiet jewels that shine brighter  as time goes on, instead of fireworks that get a lot of adulatory press and  then fade from sight forever.<br />Bravo.	2000-04-25
US	51014998	R2VS5KGR1NJFQZ	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	1	15	26	N	N	Make sure you've got insulin ready	With an air of great surprise and wonderment Mitch Albom tells us that the Great Truth is, essentially, to smell the roses.  Sorry, but this is not news. Nor are these: one should live for the present, make the best of bad  situations, forgive others, and appreciate life's small pleasures. Yet that  is all this book really has to tell us. It is cliche-ridden and poorly  written, jumping from viewpoint to viewpoint and occasionally perpetrating  some glaring bloopers. For example, Mr. Albom reports the innermost  thoughts of Prof. Schwartz at one point and then asserts that the professor  &quot;never told a soul.&quot; Oh? Then how exactly did Mr. Albom know?  Some of the dialogue is so contrived it sounds like it came out of a  Hallmark card. I find it hard to believe anyone, much less a Brandeis  professor, actually talks like that. But the thing that is most difficult  to stomach is the transparent jumping-on-a-real-moneymaker attitude of the  author. He forgot his old professor, the one who cried at graduation  (PLEASE! ) until he saw that Ted Koppel had discovered him. Then Mr. Albom  was all over him.<br />What a manipulative book. If I were one of Professor  Schwartz's former students or family members, I would be throwing up right  about now.	2000-04-13
US	51014998	R3F6XSCR8JQOJ6	0806939427	599908455	The Art of Paper Collage	Books	2	137	141	N	N	Not so much art as craft	Although this book does have some good ideas, it was disappointing. It might be called &quot;The Art Of Paper Collage,&quot; but clearly the author comes from the world of scrapbooking and rubber stamping, not from  the world of collage as a fine art. The examples she includes of her own  work tend either toward Biblical themes or toward family memorabilia (ex:  one collage is called &quot;My Dad&quot;). <br />The writing style is oddly  stilted. For example, instead of saying &quot;You will find...&quot; she  chooses &quot;It will be found that...&quot; That kind of writing gets old  very quickly, and should have been edited out.<br />  Explanations tend to be  sparse. In the section about doing an acrylic underpainting,for example,  there is very little information about how to do one, or about how to mesh  the underpainting with the collage elements. There is also a strange lack  of information about some tried-and-true elements of collage art, such as  archival tissue and the many types of acrylic medium and acrylic modeling  paste, and only a cursory look at Oriental papers, while an entire section  is devoted to some new products that are of dubious value, such as glitter  spray. I was dismayed, furthermore, to find that most of the products  featured in that section just happen to be sold by a company the author is  associated with. I ended up feeling like I had just spent a lot of money on  an elaborate ad. Not only that, there is some misinformation: she claims  that water-soluble polymer glues are considered archival &quot;because they  are reversible.&quot; That is NOT what makes a product archival--if that  were the case, kindergarten paste would be considered archival. <br />There  are other, much better, books about the art of collage out there, if you  are serious about the artistic aspects of it. Look for the ones by Nita  Leland and Virginia Williams, and Gerald Brommer. Both are far better  written, represent a much broader range of styles, and arenot nearly as  commercially self-serving.	2000-04-04
US	51014998	R1C0I4ZKYMGMQK	1561583065	18905488	The Art of Fabric Collage: An Easy Introduction to Creative Sewing	Books	5	118	118	N	N	If you are interested in fabric art, buy this book now!	This book is one of the most inspiring I have seen in years, and I have bought a lot of books about various aspects of creating art with fabric. The focus is on making wearable art but the techniques work perfectly for  wall art as well, and the examples of the author's work are so inspiring  that you will want to get started on your own work right away.<br />One of the  best aspects of the book is the clear and do-able explanation of exactly  how to make a collage. All too many instruction books gloss over the actual  creation of an original piece. This book tells you exactly how to select  fabrics, choose motifs, lay them out, fill in with background fabrics,  assemble the piece, and finish the edges.<br /> Ever since this book arrived  in the mail I have been sitting up late at night cutting up fabrics and  playing with motifs. And I have been looking at my curtains and household  linens with a speculative gleam in my eye--this method does not limit you  to using just quilter's cottons.<br />In fact, many of the techniques and  ideas in the book can carry over to other art forms. I am using her ideas  and processes in paper collage as well. All in all, this book is one of the  best investments a fiber artist can make.	2000-04-04
US	51014998	R14GILPMTEOGYI	039458872X	644728767	Secrets of the Flesh: A Life of Colette	Books	1	61	72	N	N	Hard to ruin Colette, but this book does	Colette has been one of my favorite writers for a very long time, and I have read her work in both French and English. Not only has this author managed to make her sound like a very unpleasant person, but the  translations of her writing are so poor that she sounds like a bad writer  too. The author tries to use 1995 American slang for phrases written in  1905 French, and it just doesn't come off. Also, much of the translation is  of a very mechanical nature and fails to convey any of the real flavor of  the original.  Within a very short time of starting this book, I got the  feeling that the author heartily disliked her subject. She also fails  utterly to express the extraordinary role Sido, Colette's mother, played in  her life; to convey the lush sensory evocations that make her prose so  unique; and to show the color and verve of this amazing woman's life.  Instead we get a plebeian laundry list of all the people Colette met and  when and where, regardless of how tiny their role was in her life--but the  writing of several of her novels is glossed over lightly or omitted  altogether. I am terribly sorry that so many readers who have not read  Colette yet now will never do so because of this poor biography.	2000-02-28
US	51014998	R2W7XITF4SZDA2	1570761450	417564133	How to Knit: The Definitive Knitting Course Complete with Step-by-Step Techniques, Stitch Library, and Projects for Your Home and Family	Books	2	50	57	N	N	Doesn't live up to its promise	I am coming back to knitting after having learned as a child, and really wanted to find a book that not only explains the basics but also helps me expand into new territory. I hoped this was the book but it isn't. The  instructions on how to do the foundation stitches are very sketchy--for  example, there is no indication at all of what your hands should be doing!  There are only diagrams of what the needles and yarn should look like. Then  when more advanced techniques are explained, the supposed step-by-step  diagrams show only what each step looks like AFTER it has been completed,  again with no indication of what the knitter's hands should be doing. I  found it confusing at best, and even a bit misleading.  The projects are  not very inspiring and seem, as has been remarked upon, to focus far too  much on items for children. I have some small children in my life but  frankly, as a not-very-proficient knitter, I prefer to spend my energy on  projects for people who will be the same size when I finish as when I  started! All in all, if you can find an old copy of Barbara Walker's Learn  To Knit Afghan book, you won't get the slick photography but you will get a  terrific, clear, and very complete introduction to knitting. That's a much  better way for a new or returning knitter to get started.	2000-02-22
US	51014998	R1VKMZMZN4NMQX	1883010217	42127937	Enchanted Knitting: Charted Motifs for Hand and Machine Knitting	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Excellent resource	All of the Cartwright-Jones knitting books are wonderful, and this one adds to the collection with amazing designs and motifs from all over the world, plus detailed directions for a pillbox-type hat, lavishly patterned kneesocks, a drawstring bag, and a hooded cloak/coat. These are a far cry  from most knitting patterns available--they are ethnically or historically  inspired and they allow the knitter to fit and style according to her needs  and taste. The only reason I don't give five stars is that the charts are  hard to read and for some reason don't give the stitch x row counts the way  the Tap Dancing Lizard book did. A word of warning: these patterns are  geared heavily toward machine knitters. Hand knitters will not be as happy.	2000-01-09
US	51014998	R34CBYZ1A9HNQV	082451646X	868272772	Scarlet Music: A Life of Hildegard Von Bingen (Crossroad Fiction Program)	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Good story with historical flaws	This book really does make Hildegard come to life, by presenting her in the context of her times and her beliefs. But there are lots of weird little historical mistakes that suddenly snap the reader out of 12th  century Germany, making it hard to stay with the story line. For example: A  monk says he thinks the nuns should just stick with their rosaries--but  rosaries didn't exist then. The margravine is desribed as wearing a dress  with lace at the sleeves, but lacemaking was still several centuries in the  future. Bernard of Clairvaux is described as having a beard, but monks were  clean-shaven--it was the friars of the next century that wore beards. And  several characters supposedly wear velvet, but it hadn't been invented yet.  I really wish the author had taken the time to research a little better,  since Hildegard was (and is) such an appealing character. Historical novels  that aren't true to their period are as annoying to read as stories with  geographical or technological errors.  Putting the archbishop in velvet is  like putting Rome in France or giving President Lincoln a telephone--kinda  makes it hard to believe the story after that.	1999-12-13
US	51014998	R2ZB88KEL50UFN	0826411029	582859233	Return from Exile: One Woman's Journey Back to Judaism	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Disappointing--a lightweight	As a person who is in the process of finding my way back to my own spiritual roots, like the author, I could hardly wait to read this. But within a couple of chapters I began to be put off by a number of things:  First, the anger that is implicit in so much of her narrative, such as the  incident of the book signing, where she portrays the writer who actually  got the attention the author was hoping for as being pretty much the spawn  of hell, and her descriptions of Southern culture--she can't forgive the  South for not being Marin County. Second, the fact that there was not  really much in the way of a &quot;return from exile:&quot; she had been a  member of a shul, albeit an unconventional one, before coming to  Vanderbilt. This book is more a description of her gradual decision to join  a particular congregation. Third, the dialogue is obviously contrived, and  there seems to be little in the way of structure or logical flow in the  writing. I was struck by the way chapter titles seemed to be trying to  dramatize fairly mundane things: In the chapter titled &quot;The Monastery  In Kentucky,&quot; for example, the only mention of the monastery was in  passing, to say that Willow had hurt her leg and was staying there. Yawn.  <br />Fourth, and most difficult to discuss, is the author's strong animus  towards Christianity, and impatience with those who espouse it. She says a  number of quite offensive things about Christians and Christ. Regardless of  one's own religious tradition, it is NEVER helpful to denigrate that of  others. She is guilty, in fact, of the very thing she gets so angry about  in her classmates and professors. <br />I couldn't help wondering what exactly  she expected to find at a divinity school in the South. It reminded me of  the Americans who go to Paris and get upset at all those Frenchmen who  don't speak English. All in all I wound up with the feeling the author was  more interested in shifting her writing career from her previous  pop-prosperity niche to the current interest in spiritual homecomings than  anything else. <br />A far better book with the same theme is Miriam's  Kitchen, by Elizabeth Erlich.	1999-12-04
US	51014998	R3NWBNUUWD42L3	0807070939	915642204	The Presence of Absence: On Prayers and an Epiphany	Books	1	8	18	N	N	Utterly disappointing	I got this book expecting something as good as Nora Gallagher's or Kathleen Norris's work and instead found self-absorbed, immature and disorganized maunderings. The theme of this book is Ms. Grumbach's  fifty-year effort to recreate a spiritual experience she once had. She  wanders aimlessly and apparently uncomprehendingly through bits and pieces  of Western spiritual thinking, mostly complaining about the fact that she's  &quot;lost that lovin' feelin'.&quot; This seems to me to be on a par with  dedicating your life to trying to recapture the feelings you had when you  first tasted chocolate. Let go. Move on. <br />Meanwhile she takes a very  defensive and often patronizing attitude toward all the many (and far more  mature) spiritual writers who counsel patience and participation in the  life of the religious community as doors to a true spiritual experience.  She seems to honestly believe that the main point of Christianity is to  produce in oneself a feeling of pleasurable religious awe. <br />If she didn't  have a name, I doubt this book would ever have found a publisher.	1999-11-20
US	51014998	R1KUFHTZJ6DAA5	0609803697	279465163	Freedom from Asthma: The Revolutionary 5-Day Treatment for Healing  Asthma with the Breath Connection (R) Program	Books	3	0	4	N	N	whoops	I am the reader from near Boston whose review appears below--but that review is about the book &quot;Breathing Free,&quot; by Teresa Hale. These two books are on the same subject and even look a lot alike. My criticism  of Hale's book and claims still stands, though.	1999-11-04
US	51014998	R1UVXFUZ9SH0ZR	0609604244	966686304	Breathing Free: The Revolutionary 5-Day Program to Heal Asthma, Emphysema, Bronchitis, and Other  Respiratory Ailments	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Pseudo-science	What a disappointment. I really wanted this to work. I have had moderate-to-severe asthma for twnety years and would do anything to be free of the medications and the wheezing. This program seemed too good to be  true.<br />It was. I tried it, following the program religiously, and wound up  with worse breathing than before.<br />The overtly promotional aspect bothers  me a lot too. For example, the author makes much of the fact that her  clinic was &quot;officially opened by the Prince of Wales.&quot; Well,  every member of the royal family attends about a zillion such openings  every year, but she makes it sound like he was a major player in forming  the clinic. That's like claiming your product is &quot;officially approved  by the U.S. Government&quot; because you got a federal tax I.D.  number.<br />There are other weird statements in the book that I have big  problems with, for example the contention that one reason asthma is on the  rise is that there are more trees now than there used to be, hence more  oxygen. HUH?  Has the author looked out a window lately? Some aspects of  this so-called program are described in repeated and tedious detail, but  other important ones are simply referred to in passing. For example, there  is almost nothing on the topic of exercise and asthma, a very tricky issue  for those of us who have wound up in emergency rooms after trying to  exercise. And much of the diet information is out-of-date and just plain  wrong. <br />I have to say that as much as we all hate Big Medicine, and would  love for this lone voice in the wilderness to be right, there is a reason  the idea that more carbon dioxide/less oxygen is good for you is not  accepted by the medical establishment--it's a crock. In certain situations,  it can even be dangerous. This book is irresponsible.	1999-11-04
US	51014998	R1IKD5VSESSFLC	1558746803	878546888	The Schwarzbein Principle: The Truth about Losing Weight, Being Healthy and Feeling Younger	Books	4	51	52	N	N	Excellent approach (with a few flaws)	This book is a godsend in a lot of ways. It is by no means the only book out there explaining how lowering one's carbohydrates and raising one's protein intake can improve health and create realtively painless weight  loss. But it has a few very valuable things that none of the others like  Protein Power and CAD have: First, it gives a large number of realistic  daily meal plans, which helps bring it from the world of theory into  practical reality. Second, it emphasizes staying away from artificial  sweeteners. (I never believed aspartame was a bad thing until a doctor  convinced me to go off it and a number of nagging problems like dizziness  and headaches cleared up almost overnight.)<br />Third, it allows for a  vegetarian lifestyle. Most low-carb approaches don't even consider such a  possibility. <br />Fourth, it provides a very useful chart (p.260) showing how  to determine one's metabolic need for carbohydrates and how to adjust one's  diet accordingly.<br />Unfortunately, there are a few little flaws that  separately may not be that big a deal but taken together do kind of  undermine the book's credibility. For example: hominy is listed as a  legume. Hominy is corn, with a correspondingly high carb count, and not a  legume at all. Tomatoes are in the food lists twice: once as a non-starchy  vegetable (therefore something to be eaten freely) and once as a fruit (and  therefore something to be eaten with great restraint). Buttermilk is listed  as a &quot;bad fat.&quot; But buttermilk is a cultured milk product much  like yogurt or kefir, not a &quot;man-made&quot; fat at all.  Then there is  the issue of hormone replacement therapy, which the doctor seems to  recommend with alarming casualness while condemning all other drugs. I fail  to see why ERT is okay but taking aspirin is not.  The biggest problem,  though, is that there is no real explanation of what constitutes the  &quot;healing program&quot; and how that differs from the &quot;maintenance  program.&quot; I still don't quite understand what the maintenance program  is and how to know when it is time to go on it.  But even with these little  problems, it is the kind of diet program that is worth it simply because it  makes you feel so much better so quickly. Even if I weren't losing weight,  I would still want to stay on it because I feel transformed--no more energy  spikes and plummeting blood sugar, no more heartburn, no more insane  craving for candy and mashed potatoes.	1999-11-02
US	51014998	R1YH5S6HUXK90N	0609803697	279465163	Freedom from Asthma: The Revolutionary 5-Day Treatment for Healing  Asthma with the Breath Connection (R) Program	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Pseudo science.	What a disappointment. I really wanted this to work. I have had moderate-to-severe asthma for twnety years and would do anything to be free  of the medications and the wheezing. This program seemed too good to be  true.<br />It was. I tried it, following the program religiously, and wound up  with worse breathing than before.<br />The overtly promotional aspect bothers  me a lot too. For example, the author makes much of the fact that her  clinic was &quot;officially opened by the Prince of Wales.&quot; Well,  every member of the royal family attends about a zillion such openings  every year, but she makes it sound like he was a major player in forming  the clinic. That's like claiming your product is &quot;officially approved  by the U.S. Government&quot; because you got a federal tax I.D.  number.<br />There are other weird statements in the book that I have big  problems with, for example the contention that one reason asthma is on the  rise is that there are more trees now than there used to be, hence more  oxygen. HUH?? Has the author looked out a window lately? Some aspects of  this so-called program are described in repeated and tedious detail, but  other important ones are simply referred to in passing. For example, there  is almost nothing on the topic of exercise and asthma, a very tricky issue  for those of us who have wound up in emergency rooms after trying to  exercise. And much of the diet information is out-of-date and just plain  wrong. <br />I have to say that as much as we all hate Big Medicine, and would  love for this lone voice in the wilderness to be right, there is a reason  the idea that more carbon dioxide/less oxygen is good for you is not  accepted by the medical establishment--it's a crock.	1999-10-28
US	51014998	RA6A8DQ0ZY46I	1569471592	94286646	Murder in the Marais (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 1)	Books	1	27	34	N	N	Too full of mistakes to be believable	If I were to set out to write a book set in France, in which French phrases were to be used on virtually every page, I would take the time to  check that the words and grammar were more or less correct. This author  didn't bother. But even if she didn't, the editor certainly should have. A  $6.95 paperback French-English dictionary would have made a huge  difference. When I read about a supposedly French character talking about  &quot;le morte,&quot; and when the word for police changes genders in the  same paragraph, I get too annoyed to take the book seriously. What  happened? Is the publisher under the inpression that no one in America has  taken French I?<br />Even beyond that obvious problem, there are too many  instances of just plain old poor writing to make the book worth reading.  For example, when Aimee discovers the murdered woman, the author describes  the body so confusingly that I had to reread the paragraph several times  and still couldn't figure out what was going on with the splinters and  scratches.<br />Perhaps if the editor had done a better job this book might  have been salvaged but we'll never know now.	1999-10-26
US	51014998	R161NT78DH67YM	0385333366	472660217	Ghost Country	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A startling and wonderful departure	I had no idea what to expect from this book when I started it, only knowing that it wasn't a V.I. story. I was doubtful at first but as I read on I became more and more enchanted. It is not a plumbing of the  psychological depths of various realistic characters, but clearly it was  not meant to be. Instead it is a kind of morality play for our time, done  so skillfully that the story grips the reader and won't let go. Some of the  characters are almost caricatures, rather like people in a very old  allegory, and the story itself is full of wonderful allusions and layers of  meaning--for example, the doctor's name, and that of the catalyst  character, Starr. In the end I went away feeling very satisfied and somehow  like I had added another layer to my own character. It's like reading a  combination of the ancient &quot;Descent of Inanna&quot; and a modern  thriller.	1999-10-07
US	51014998	RHT4WV7FARDMJ	0965320898	871486626	Goddess Unmasked: The Rise of Neopagan Feminist Spirituality	Books	1	18	47	N	N	Polemic posing as scholarship	A look at the publisher's web page is enough to give you an idea of what to expect from this book. It claims to represent the true conservative view and accuses other conservative publishers of giving in to sensationalism  and &quot;scandal-mongering.&quot; Its booklist is heavily geared to works  of extreme anti-feminism. So the author's claims to a balanced and  scholarly view are hardly believable. This is not a book for any thoughtful  reader to take seriously.	1999-09-11
US	51014998	R1QAG0G7GD6RLK	0399143807	659470638	Judas Child	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Better even than her wonderful other books	I am a picky reader, and don't often run across a book I can recommend as highly as this one. It is sparkling with intelligence, the characters manage to be very real and yet somehow mythic, the plot is extraordinary,  and the surprises keep coming all the way to the epilogue. What a treat. I  hope more of St. Ursula's alumni will appear in the future.	1999-08-12
