US	51016170	R1GQ4ULX53LN4B	0072230665	460482486	Oracle Database 10g PL/SQL Programming	Books	2	19	24	N	Y	Just paraphrases the free Oracle documentation	This just paraphrases the \\"PL/SQL User's Guide and Reference\\" freely available from Oracle.  (Visit tahiti dot oracle dot com.)  In contrast, the hardly-known [[ASIN:0137144229 Oracle PL/SQL by Example]] by Rosenzweig has better examples and friendlier discussion of more commonly used features of PL/SQL; it complements the Oracle documentation with well-chosen emphasis.  I bought both books a year ago and seldom refer to this one any more because it has never yielded useful information.  (Nor do I refer to Rosenzweig's book any more, but that's because it was so easy to learn that I remember it.)    This book covers advanced topics that [[ASIN:0137144229 Oracle PL/SQL by Example]] does not, such as external subprograms, dynamic SQL, and objects in the database, but since those topics are (of course) also covered in the free Oracle user's guide, I cannot recommend buying this.  The PDF file from Oracle can at least be searched electronically.  On the other hand, printing some Oracle PDFs and having them spiral-bound at Kinko's cost me over $20 each, so if you need a paper copy the purchase of this book becomes a bit more feasible.	2005-09-29
US	51016170	RTJK1JVE12OOD	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hard to put down (in either sense)	What makes this a good story is that the prospects for good to prevail seem utterly, desperately hopeless.  To couch it in elementary terms, there are good guys, bad guys, and other bad guys.  The bad guys are at odds with each other, and the good guys take full advantage of that.  This could be the ultimate case study in expediency and fighting fire with fire.  It's a quick read anyway, but once the first ray of hope comes, it becomes absolutely riveting!      This book chronicles the rise and fall of a slimy, duplicitous little two-bit car thief who bullied his way into cocaine trafficking and amassed wealth beyond his wildest dreams by being in the right place after murdering any potential competitors.  It is also a heartbreaking account of how he held a nation hostage with a terror campaign.    There is a lot of insight into electronic surveillance (it's positively creepy what they can do now) and the United States government vis-a-vis the intelligence community.  What overstepping of legal bounds there was is described in detail.      The title hints of violence and the book delivers that in spades without even trying, so beware if you are easily upset.  There is a photo of Escobar's fully-bearded corpse that resembles a pudgy werewolf.    There is no happy ending to this bloody affair.  I consider this essential reading for anyone commenting on South American politics and the rebel groups (FARC and ELN) because they are intertwined with the cocaine trade.  There are many insights into \\"how things are down there,\\" plus inspiring accounts of a few incredibly brave, principled Colombians, almost all dead now, who dared to stand up to Escobar's staggeringly pervasive organization.    Tidbits:  (1) Bowden stops just shy of making this connection, but I believe Fidel Castro had everything to do with Jorge Gaitan's assassination in 1948.  (2) There is a brilliant paragraph on page 42 characterizing the transition of cocaine's socially obligatory status among elite/\\"hip\\" Americans in the 1970's to becoming the outcast scum crack in the 1980's.      I hold authors to high standards of English and journalism and after approaching this book critically, I must recommend it.  Will be reading more Bowden.  (Although, regarding the History Channel video, I found his mis-pronunciation Spanish names and words annoying.)    PABLO ESCOBAR WAS NOT A HERO or a legend, as some of the poor around Medellin believe, but a killer of toddlers.	2005-09-06
US	51016170	R2VP8AP52Q8D59	0312267126	375514946	BLOW: How a Small-Town Boy Made $100 Million with the Medellin Cocaine Cartel and Lost It All	Books	3	27	30	N	N	Sloppy job, but still interesting	Aware that the movie is only loosely based on a true story, I turned to this book for a more factual account of the rise and fall of George Jung.  But Jung's own account of the execution he witnessed on the Escobar ranch, to pick an example, differs as much from the one in this book as from the movie!  By page four I knew this wasn't secretly penned by Truman Capote.  It is vulgar and loaded with malapropisms, for example:  the word &#34;obviate&#34; is repeatedly used where &#34;eliminate&#34; is intended.  Evidently no one at Harper Collins knows what the word means.  &#34;Secrete&#34; is used for &#34;secret.&#34;  There are stretches long enough that I was able to get into the read before pausing to wonder what was meant by a non sequitur or a sentence that is not a sentence, but a slight effort by a copy editor or high school English teacher would have greatly improved the work.  The editors and &#34;fact checker&#34; should all be serving time for criminal negligence.  Terrible job.  Carlos Lehder is portrayed as a reckless megalomaniac brazen enough to unabashedly ramp up his smuggling through Norman's Cay to full tilt --really taking it to another level-- seemingly without regard for how much attention it would draw; indiscretion ultimately did the cartel in.  There are interesting tales of boaters being chased away from the island, including a retired Walter Cronkite!  Once a boat was found adrift in that vicinity, spattered with blood.  Surprisingly, considering the vast differences between this book and the movie, the fight scene with Mirtha driving up the I-95 one night actually did occur.  Regarding the Eastham bust, George was said to be looking at a ten-year sentence for the coke, but the book makes no mention whatsoever as to whether Richard Barile did in fact have the machine gun he mentioned at least twice to the undercover cop that evening, possession of which would carry the same sentence under federal law --not to mention what the state of Massachusetts would have done to him.  There are many such places throughout the book that left me wondering why something was covered so unevenly and then just abandoned.  At another point it refers in passing to George having two children, with no mention before or after of a second child being born.  Some of the &#34;factoids&#34; regarding aviation and firearms are hilariously inaccurate.  A Hughes 500 helicopter becomes a &#34;Huey 500.&#34;  (&#34;Huey&#34; refers to an entirely different type of helicopter, and there's no such thing as a &#34;Huey 500.&#34;) And once and for all, folks, a .357 magnum will not go through an engine block; that's a myth.  (It just ricochets, leaving a tiny dent on the surface.  Don't try this at home.)  And for instant gratification search the web for &#34;Norman's Cay.&#34;	2005-08-24
US	51016170	R18LHWE0UGT4UH	0812821505	977502111	Enola Gay	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Quick read.  Hard to put down.	This well-written book covers different points of view.  It tells the personal stories of selected Japanese such as the mayor of Hiroshima, who was finding it increasingly difficult to keep his forbidden anti-war sentiments quiet.  It shares the daily lives of the men who became the 509th Composite Group, and how they were the target of harassment on Tinian Island by other American soldiers jealous of how the secretive 509th got the best of everything.  Insights from the Manhattan Project and the Trinity test on July 16, 1945 are included. Paul Tibbets is (correctly) portrayed as a determined glory-grabber who stopped at nothing to elbow his way into the history books.    There are many (now declassified) details I never heard anywhere else:  the other planes that went along on the mission, the preliminary missions, Mao Tse-Tung's role, the inadvertent release of a 9000-pound practice bomb that narrowly missed a California desert town, the decision makers who selected Japanese cities as candidates for bombing, and much more.	2005-07-18
US	51016170	R4Z4TRNRSUSU2	0967519144	610263979	Safe Young Drivers: A Guide for Parents and Teens	Books	2	7	12	N	Y	A few pointers in a haystack of filler	I like the attractive cover and spiral binding, but the content of the book, like cotton candy, melts down to little substance.  To pick an example: there are three (3) vacuous paragraphs just on cleaning the windshield, with a canonical list of substances that can dirty the windshield and platitudes like \\"It doesn't take long before the glass becomes dirty.  So it is a good idea, *every* time you start out...\\"  --It's just filler and it's tiresome to read.  The book is also poorly written in other ways and needs a good basic editing, the type a grade school English teacher could do.      Give another driver's education book a chance; they're all written for teens anyway.  My teen and I quickly abandoned this book and practice the Smith System instead.  If I were to buy another book I'd try one the time-tested offerings from the well-respected AAA, such as their [[ASIN:B000IQ086W AAA Teaching Your Teens to Drive (Book/Video Kit)]].	2005-07-12
US	51016170	R3VYR42VDRVC0E	0140244328	909606724	Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government Saving Privacy in the Digital Age	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Well-researched account	Light-hearted by nature, Steven Levy gives everything the proper treatment in an often amusing way without being irreverent, and he becomes serious where warranted.     This book presents a balanced perspective from both sides: privacy advocates who do not necessarily trust the government, and government authorities terrified of losing their precious wiretaps and other snooping capabilities. The actions of a few self-righteous, overzealous mavericks on both sides are recounted.     Examples of successful U.S. government eavesdropping are mentioned; for instance, it was monitoring that revealed that the Libyans were the bombers of Pan Am flight 103. There is example after example of how the antiquated, rigid NSA position that \\"crypto is munitions\\" stifled the ascendant American software industry in the 1990's by restricting exports, giving foreign competitors the edge, while the rest of the world already had strong crypto anyway! Asinine inconsistencies in the old export restrictions are cited. The players of the NSA, NIST, and Congress are named and events, from assembly bills to telling conversations, are recounted. I think most crypto enthusiasts will find this recap informative. It certainly filled in a lot of gaps for me!     The book does not pretend to be a primer on cryptography. Levy does his usual admirable job of reaching out to the masses with lay explanations and clever analogies, but this being specialized math, it will at times go over the heads of some readers. Levy has a good sense of how far to take a technical explanation before dropping it; he doesn't go around the bend. Historical cryptographic systems recounted in David Kahn's tome \\"The Codebreakers\\" are now passe, not just because computers do it faster, but also due to relatively recent mathematical discoveries. The chronology of those discoveries is told along with the human stories behind them --of those who yearned to understand the art of secret writing and came to realize that it boils down to hard adversarial mathematics.     The human story throughout is one of unassuming, unlikely geniuses whose discoveries got no immediate fanfare, rather taking decades to catch on. Today (ironically now that the patents have expired) those discoveries are in use every day by most people using the Internet, a cellular phone, or any other wireless device.     The book is at times dull. To me, the accounts of legislative machinations were slow-going but I don't see how they could be made more interesting.     Jim Bidzos is finally vindicated as a real hero of the crypto revolution (after being portrayed in a bad light in a book on PGP). Diffie/Hellman/Merkle, the Cypherpunks, anonymous remailers, Julf Helsingius and Penet, David Chaum and digital cash protocols, court decisions, the Clipper chip --it's all here.     Did government spooks discover public key crypto first, in secret? The book ends with the interesting and hitherto unknown story of James H. Ellis of the General Communications HQ, the British cousin of the NSA.     An index, a small glossary, and an appendix of references are included. Well done!	2005-05-23
US	51016170	R32XS7AU5LOXV1	156474048X	415952838	How to Be an Expert Witness: Credibility in Oral Testimony	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Too useful and concise to ignore	Sixty well-sectioned pages, quick enough of a read for anyone preparing for court.  Part 1 discusses the usual trick questions that come up on cross and how to answer them.  Explains different types of questions, what is/is not allowed during direct and cross examination --things your lawyer should explain but all too often these days might not.    Part 2 describes the role of the witness (a good focal point in a storm), \\"how to be\\" with the cross examiner (and how not to be!), and how to present the evidence.  Also includes a few thoughts to take heart by, such as: if you are made to appear to suffer, it can only enhance your credibility.    Read this before taking the stand and don't be afraid.  The back cover says, \\"If the opposing counsel asks if you have been given instructions or advice on how to testify, tell him 'Yes,' that the instructions are in writing, and that you have them with you.  Produce this book and show it to the court or hearing officer.\\"	2005-05-03
US	51016170	R1G6XUZBBWNX9V	0440158060	416850767	The Moon's a Balloon	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Incredibly uplifting!	I just want to quickly add to all these other five-star reviews that this is one of the most inspirational books I have ever read.  David Niven candidly bares his vulnerabilities and lets us in on the obstacles and hurts he endured.  I read this at a time that I felt I was drifting and this made me feel much better.  There are amusing stories about Hollywood and the rest of the world in the old days.  Blessings to David Niven.  It's a breeze of a read and I envy those of you who have it yet to enjoy for the first time!	2005-05-02
US	51016170	R1O55EGMIZOKQN	0910542716	758643562	Thai - Language/30 - A conversation course using a proven self-learning method (2 cassettes and phrase dictionary) (Thai Edition)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A very good jump start for the determined!	It's a way to memorize a few useful Thai sentences: two cassettes and a booklet.  It's for you if you (1) *WANT* to learn (the biggie!), (2) have a Walkman with a review button, and (3) are willing to repeat aloud.  One who could memorize and faithfully render all the phrases on these tapes without having been to Thailand would be a rare bird indeed, but most people will be able to get a few \\"faves\\" down pat.  (Meant to give it four stars but it won't let me change it now.)    It is not a way to learn Thai in isolation, but it's better than three other products I tried. (Forget software, by the way.)  This is not as good as Pimsleur, though!  Pimsleur costs more but is worth it: [[ASIN:0743544927 Thai: Pimsleur Comprehensive]], or the smaller version: [[ASIN:0743551222 Conversational Thai]].  Whatever you choose, you have some work to do.  You can't buy the practice.    With this well-priced product and some practice, one can get the pronunciation down well enough to be understood.  A phrase is recited once in English then twice in Thai, so it isn't strictly necessary to have the booklet on hand.  There are both male and female Thai speakers, which matters grammatically.    A small nit to pick:  The abbreviated recitation of the Thai consonants is useless.  There are several series of similar consonants in a row:  \\"ka, ka, ka, ka...\\" --indistinguishable to a Western ear.  I would have spent another forty seconds of tape on a full, proper recitation (\\"gaw-ooey gaw-gai, kaw-khai nai-lao,\\" etc.), but there are disadvantages to that as well:  what I cited in parenthesis is just for the first two consonants, so it would be hard for a beginner to know which syllable is the letter itself among all the extra sounds in their dainty and not-so-little alphabet chant.  It's a trade-off.    The booklet would fit in a letter envelope (sticks out of a shirt pocket) and I occasionally toted it along and pointed in it to communicate something important.  The sentences are printed inboth English and Thai.  There is also a phonetic notation for pronunciation (similar to what's in a dictionary), which can serve as a memory jogger but is utterly useless without the tape because this is a tonal language.     *DO* TAKE THIS TO THAILAND with you!  If you think you're pronouncing something correctly but all you get is blank stares, go listen to it on the tape again.  Surprise!  8-[)  And *that* is how I learned Thai!    Contrary to another (phony) review, there is no introduction to Thai writing here!  (The best intro, by the way, is some of the very inexpensive drawing books that Thai pre-schoolers use to learn their alphabet.  Those show you with arrows where to start and which way to draw.  Hint: always make the loop first.)	2005-04-24
US	51016170	R3MUAXZZ4JIVNZ	0452274826	532008618	From Here to Economy: A Shortcut to Economic Literacy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	"A Short Cut to Economic Literacy" is an apt title	I went looking for a big text book on economics but am glad I found this instead.  A Harvard Economics instructor and former White House advisor spoon-feeds it to you but keeps it interesting.  It's loaded wall-to-wall with excellent analogies.  If at first something doesn't quite click, it's lucidly spelled out in plain language in the following sentence.  If you can read, you can understand economics.     There are also some witty pearls such as:  \\"That is why some people have compared the federal government to an infant:  it has a limitless appetite at one end and no sense of responsibility at the other.\\"     This was published in 1995 before the advent of the Euro and the World Trade Organization, but it discusses what led to those.  In some places he writes \\"Recently...\\" or \\"In the last fifteen years,\\" so those statistics are dated, but the lion's share of the book is timeless essentials well worth reading today.    The role of politicians is discussed throughout as a nature-of-the-beast phenomenon.  He occasionally names particular politicians in brief (one- or two-sentence) examples, and good decisions and boners alike by BOTH major parties are mentioned --but only reviewers who read beyond the first chapter would know that.     It covers macro- & micro-economics, education, health care (yes, it can be understood), environmental issues, banking and \\"The Fed,\\" international trade, sanctions, the Great Depression, economics for individual investors(!), and includes a detailed index.  Classical Economics (Adam Smith, Maynard Keynes, etc.) and proper academic terminology are referenced throughout.	2005-03-30
US	51016170	R35D4VO8682DUG	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Buckle up before reading!	The author says he only wrote this at the behest of his editor but ironically, this is Vince Bugliosi at his finest:  indignant as hell and shouting the plain truth in a book that reads like a raging oratory. He also cites examples of incompetent judges and attorneys in other celebrity cases, and he names names.  He rants about incompetence in general, religious beliefs, and more; it is provocative and refreshing.  These are akin to George Carlin observations except that no humor is intended.      Mr. Bugliosi serves up a big helping of law for the layman without being pedantic.  It is super-informative and I learned a lot about how a case comes to trial, rules of evidence, and the emerging field of jury consultants.  Next time I am on jury duty, I will in no way feel that I am any less a part of that trial than the lawyers or judge!    I was surprised by some revelations such as: Simpson's jailhouse confession to Rosie Grier and why that evidence was perfectly admissible --but Judge Ito barred it because he apparently does not know the law.  Another:  Mark Fuhrman had had a previous squabble with the highest-ranking woman in the LAPD, who also happens to be the wife of Judge Ito!  (Which might explain why Ito allowed Fuhrman to be crucified on something not relevant to this case.)    Mr. Bugliosi is not content to prove something once and leave it at that.  He proves it again and again with different evidence.  He pulls no punches on:     (1)  Gil Garcetti, the then-District Attorney of LA County;   (2)  Judge Lance \\"Ego,\\" who never met a TV camera he didn't like, for making one appallingly illegal or idiotic decision after another once the trial started;   (3)  the so-called \\"Dream Team,\\" who was anything but that:  not one of them had any murder trial experience whatsoever until Lee Bailey joined them;   (4)  journalists and commentators, who consistently missed the point entirely;     ...and then there was the prosecution.  It is worth noting that \\"Bugliosi\\" isnot found in the index of either Marcia Clark's book nor Chris Darden's.  Silence in the face of an accusation = consciousness of guilt.    The only copy I could find was a large print edition and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants the full effect; it made the words seem extra declamatory.  Wow.	2005-03-16
US	51016170	RB0VISP6JIPZ4	0804109176	990267161	And the Sea Will Tell	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A terrible tragedy, plus a great story	Part 1 is an account of a neat couple --good people-- who, at the husband's behest, sailed to an uninhabited tropical atoll to get away from it all and ended up getting murdered by a brainsick felon on the lam.     Part 2 is the story of the subsequent criminal proceedings.  Aware of Mr. Bugliosi's illustrious record as a prosecutor, I considered this part one big happy ending from the outset, looking forward to an account of his dramatic show and cogent case against the murderer.  I was dismayed to learn that he was instead retained to defend the murderer's girlfriend in a separate trial.  What makes it a great story is that the defense faced overwhelming obstacles and was at times on the brink of losing it all!  By no means is this Mr. Bugliosi crowing about his stellar performance in some slam-dunk case.  This is the story of a remarkably unconcerned and ungrateful [[ASIN:1558741127 Adult Child of an Alcoholic]] (who displayed classic symptoms of that syndrome) who went to slaughter with far better representation than she deserved, an embarrassing record of suspicious conduct around the time of the murders, and a blithe, lazy attitude toward trial preparation.     You can guess the outcome of the trial considering that this book was written, but it still has a tense ending regarding what the defense team went through during deliberation.  How the jurors' dispositions compared to the lawyers' guesses is another thing to look forward to.    This is a nonfiction novel rather than one of Mr. Bugliosi's indignant harangues but as usual, I learned a lot about criminal process and jurisprudence.  He also lets us in on small aspects of his personal life and I enjoyed this, too.  And while I am convinced that \\"Jennifer Jenkins\\" is innocent of murder, I think she should win an Oscar for acting stupid in regards to that werewolf she was shacking up with.    UPDATE:  Buck Walker was released on 8-28-2007!  Go to the Federal Bureau of Prisons site, click Inmate Search, and search for WESLEY G. WALKER.   Unbelievable.  \\"And I say to myself, what a wonderful world...\\"	2005-03-07
US	51016170	REYJBI9S0WHPS	0131172611	393975800	Oracle PL/SQL by Example (3rd Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Well done.  Oracle Education look out!	I'm a developer and DBA who had not written PL/SQL in over a year.  I used this book as a refresher.     This is the \\"Learning Perl\\" of PL/SQL, meaning:  a beginner can learn from it, and an experienced hack can use it as a reference.     I consider lots of good sample code to be important when learning a programming language.  Here it is, as a series of labs, with intelligent discussion.  It's like having a friend who's an expert act as a personal tutor.  It has complete, well-rounded coverage of PL/SQL fundamentals: control structures, stored procedures, packages, and a good chapter on triggers.  In rare cases where some keyword is introduced with no explanation, it's usually covered in the following section.     It is nearly the quality of Oracle course materials, but with (a tolerable amount of) typos.  Annoyingly, some of the typos are incorrect answers in the appendix; the rest are obvious typos and therefore not too confusing.     Chapter 1 is deceptively basic, explaining what a program is, what a programming language is, etc., but chapter 2 jumps right into PL/SQL with no further ado.  The book progresses in baby steps as far as PL/SQL is concerned.  Although knowledge of SQL is assumed, some concepts like commit & rollback, savepoints, and sequences are introduced and explained for beginners.  It is also assumed that the reader:     - knows what DML, DDL, and the DUAL table are;   - has an account that can create objects (the \\"Scott\\" demo account will do); and  - knows how to connect to the database with SQL*Plus or a development tool (IDE).     With an IDE I was able to work through it in about thirty hours.  I just read  chapters I was already strong in without working those labs, but that time included plenty of puttering and experimenting with the lab material I did work.     I also bought 10g \\"PL/SQL Programming\\" by Urman, et. al. but dove into this book first.  The two books overlap.  The freely available \\"PL/SQL User's Guide and Reference\\" from Oracle is still a must-have.    Densely packed with pertinent information and very little else, it's about 99% useful information.  Like the blurb says, \\"Just the facts.\\"  It is a complete Oracle course, so it was worth $2400 in that respect.	2005-03-04
US	51016170	R3BK1UWWSB7LSV	0030177448	796353130	Holt Modern Biology: Student Edition Grades 9-12 1999	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent --I mean outstanding in every way.	I have two unrelated degrees, and had only high school biology.  I use this book for self-study.  It is perfect.  Its long list of reviewers gave me confidence in its lessons.      I find it plain and understandable.  The explanations and definitions could not be made simpler.  Superbly illustrated, the book also makes good use of boldface type and color.  When a new term is introduced, its pronunciation is given right there, and selected useful etymologies are given in the margins.    It begins with an overview of biology and the basics of scientific method, experimentation, what a hypothesis is, inference and theories, microscopy, etcetera.  Then there is a GREAT review of basic chemistry, and the book logically progresses into biochemistry, cell theory, reproduction, and on \\"up.\\" There are no gaps; everything is built on what came before.    It is concise yet interesting because it cites quick examples.  For example, the section on vacuoles explains how these intracellular toxic waste containers can be beneficial to the plant: \\"For instance, the poisons that certain acacia trees have in their vacuoles provide a defense against plant-eating animals.\\"  No chapter is without such examples that cite particular organisms to make a point.  Where warranted, there is longer, intelligent discussion of organisms that don't clearly fall on one side of the fence.  For example, there is a paragraph on how Volvox (a green algae) exhibits properties of both unicellular and multicellular organisms.    There are interesting ecology sidebars on topics such as rain forests, global warming, and acid rain.  Ecology is also not forgotten in the main text.    The questions at the end of each chapter are also well thought out:  There are sections of straightforward multiple choice, short answer, and vocabulary questions.  Then there is a \\"Test Your Thinking\\" section with clever, fun questions that require one to reflect on the material rather than just regurgitate answers from rote; these questions often involve material from previous chapters, but are never vague nor require knowledge of something that was not presented before.    It is complete.  All 1100 pages considered, I am honestly at a loss for anything unfavorable to say.  Too much to list here.  It is so well done that I was dumbfounded to see any negative remarks at all!	2004-06-30
US	51016170	RQQ0JR1SIV5B	0553263153	150393116	Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A novel approach, very well done.	Please note that these comments are strictly about this book and not its controversial author.<br />It is a series of plates (a diagram of a single set-up), each with a single question, for example, &quot;Can white mate in one move?&quot;  Answer the question and flip the page to see how you did.  I found this approach with its terse explanations useful.  <br />It starts at the beginner level and builds up in small steps, covering much more than I expected from a paperback book with so little text. I did not feel the need to set up these positions on a board; looking in the book was good enough.  This book is convenient to whip out, work a problem or two, and put away again, so I sometimes took it with me.	2004-04-19
US	51016170	R2W20MRO0TG0SL	0449210685	33908998	The Great Escape	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A riveting tale of ingenuity!	An incredible story of raw determination, ingenuity and organization, substantiated with photographs mostly taken by the Germans.  Man, is this ever a quick read!  I couldn't put it down, and I'm *not* an avid reader.  I would have read it faster were it not for so much flipping back to the diagram of the compound to follow along with the text.  No one, no matter how imaginative, could have possibly made all this up.    There are many parallels with the movie:  There actually was a prisoner in possession of a brand new civilian suit (obtained in Prague on a previous escape attempt and smuggled back into camp), someone who took a trunk through the tunnel, and the guards actually did use the prisoners' English word to refer to the \\"cooler.\\"  Also true was that once outside the fence, one was far from being \\"out of the woods,\\" figuratively as well as literally; one was still deep within the heavily-policed, papers-conscious Reich.    There wasn't just one tunnel, though, and here are accounts of absolutely relentless escape attempts and incredibly clever make-do fabrications of fake everything, from gate passes to German uniforms and gun replicas --out of anything they could scavenge, inveigle, connive, beg, borrow, or steal.    There is insight regarding the personalities of the Germans as well as the prisoners, and why these POWs, mostly pilots, were placed in a relatively humane camp, and how they built a well-managed intelligence network among themselves.  Some of the British slang and military acronyms from a bygone era gave me pause, but it was part of the adventure.  A very inspiring tale!	2004-04-19
US	51016170	R2E029AMR6EUDY	0520229177	582468112	Anthrax: The Investigation of a Deadly Outbreak	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Passe	I looked to this book for more details about the Sverdlovsk outbreak after reading [[ASIN:0385334966 Biohazard]], the excellent expose by Ken Alibek published a year after this book.  Comparisons of the two books are inherently unfair and at the same time unavoidable because Alibek, who spent two decades directing major parts of the Soviet Union's covert biological warfare programs, knows so much more than everyone involved with this investigation could have ever hoped to uncover.  Bottom line:  I strongly recommend \\"Biohazard\\" over this book.  Alibek's chapter on Sverdlovsk has riveting first-hand accounts of the accident at the anthrax production facility.  And he names names!      This book presents circumstantial evidence from people who were outside the biological warfare program:  attending doctors, victims' families, etc.  Like \\"Biohazard,\\" it also refutes the official \\"contaminated meat\\" story.      I did get a bit of the additional detail I was looking for, and for that I give it two stars, but it meanders quite a bit with childish, off-topic editorial musings that belong in a travelogue rather than in a presentation of findings, and I found it dull.  I have more criticisms of this book but see no use in presenting them:  there are nearly 400 used copies for sale here as I type this.  It's dead.	2003-10-19
US	51016170	R3MRB3U9QC8KJ8	0385334966	539408457	Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World--Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Riveting, informative, and understandable	Very well-written in plain language thanks to Steve Handelman, this is a quick read.  It is educational without being pedantic, and covers a well-balanced gamut of subjects, including:    - the history of Soviet bio-weaponeering: the vast resources they (including Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mikhail Gorbachev) put into developing biological weapons in direct violation of the 1972 treaty and hiding it from the rest of the world, as well as from their own people;    - the evolution of pathogen manufacturing processes;    - the morality and justification (or lack thereof) of such weapons;    - interesting details about various pathogens and the diseases they cause;    - the dismal outlook for biodefense (sorry), with informative discussion of the shortcomings of vaccines, as well as the most promising possibilities;    - Alibek's personal involvement and ascension through the Soviet military and scientific community, and the internal power struggles that hampered the Soviet regime; and    - the truth --finally-- about the 1979 anthrax outbreak at Sverdlovsk, its exact cause, the elaborate KGB attempts at a cover up, and simple, common sense refutations of the \\"contaminated meat\\" story proffered by the Soviet oligarchy.  The book tells how a well-meaning Boris Yeltsin (who was then the Communist party boss of Sverdlovsk) inadvertently worsened the epidemic by ordering an inexpert clean-up.    Straightforward explanations are given of viruses, the human immune system, cellular biology, and related topics.  In the style of that most excellent author Jon Krakauer, this book occasionally makes a fascinating historical flashback; for instance, there are quick side bars on Edward Jenner and the history of immunology.    There are also some somber, one-sentence paragraphs with the enormous weight of a British understatement.  These gave me pause.    Names of people and places are given freely, and the book includes a good index.  I learned a lot and feel thankful for every healthy day.  The amazing thing is how little harm has been done considering what's possible!  :-)	2003-10-15
US	51016170	R2UUYNQ1PAREV0	0804805156	748168768	Secret Fighting Arts of the World	Books	3	9	9	N	N	It's a hoot!  Delightful, unabashed horse manure.	Reminds me of a cartoon of a guy standing on a chair and holding his pant legs up as high as he could; the caption read, &quot;Now, go on with your story.&quot;  Much of it is obviously contrived:  the men allegedly interviewed around the world all speak fluent English, use similar mannerisms, and quote American statesmen!  LOL<br />As a teenage martial arts fan I thought this book was riveting.  Now I wonder if anyone really believes the account of the &quot;Parisian Halitotic Attack&quot; (bad breath attack).  <br />Read magellan359's review for a theory on who's behind the pseudonym.  The picture of &quot;Don Eagle&quot; on page 134 bears a striking resemblance to the Donn on the back of the &quot;Practical Karate&quot; series of books.  My rating is an average:  1 (lowest) as a training book, 5 for being a howl --a collection of shaggy dog stories.	2003-05-10
US	51016170	R1SGLF2B0N6DQB	0553374117	394271416	Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Interesting to read and re-read	To reveal my bias first:  I loved physics in high school and college, and most of my peers did not.     This is a collection of updated essays and speeches concerning the cosmology (the origin and evolution of the universe) and related topics.  Hawking explains scientifically, and explains his explanations. Some topics such as quantum mechanics and Einstein's theory of relativity are brought up in almost every chapter, and this repetition from different angles made me understand.  These speeches and essays had originally been written for audiences of various levels of understanding.  Regardless of \\"where you're at,\\" you will find some chapters easier to digest than others.  (Chapter 7, for example, is relatively rigorous and gets into particle physics, but I appreciated its rigor after the rest of the book had become familiar.)  I had to read a few paragraphs in this book more than once before they clicked, but they did click.  I found this especially true of the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics and the sum over histories, which I had never heard of before.  Hawking makes excellent use of analogy.     I found Hawking's explanations of Einstein's theory of relativity easier to understand than an entire book for laymen on that subject called \\"Relativity Visualized.\\"     Hawking properly spends an early chapter discussing his life including his physical condition, which he had only mentioned in \\"A Brief History of Time.\\"  I found this book to be an easier read than that one.  There is profound discussion of the role of scientists in society, and of science and the public.     To my amazement:     1)  I finally became comfortable with the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics;     2)  This book corroborated, rather than conflicted with, my philosophical beliefs; and     3)  I learned that scientists are very human when it comes to stubbornly adhering to what they *want* to believe, at least for a while, after it's been disproved.  Hawking cites many examples of this in his historical coverage of our understanding of physics, notably how relativity was considered too \\"far out\\" for years by most of the science community, Einstein himself not believing one of its implications.     Some of the most amazing revelations are not theory but accepted facts that I just was not caught up with.  I treasure this book.	2003-03-15
US	51016170	R39TJLLFWAN4GY	0892046716	337694389	Official Baseball Rules, 2002 Edition	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Fascinating for someone who didn't know the rules!	It fits into a jacket pocket.  Whip it out at the game!  At times it's a coversation piece.  I give it four stars instead of five only because there was one instance where the announcer quoted a rule that was not the same as in this book, but so what?	2003-03-15
US	51016170	RJAUXS49ZYIZL	0300089163	912325621	The Duel: The Eighty-Day Struggle Between Churchill and Hitler	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A must-read for those who truly want to understand	This book is a thoughtful treatise on that tense summer, the period leading up to it, and these two leaders.  It also provides insight as to why the people of various nations cheered, voted, or reacted as they did, sometimes to the surprise of Hitler or Churchill.  I found the comparisons and contrasts (on a personal level) of the two men interesting.      Lukacs' treatment of Hitler is anything but superficial.  The author explains why some of Hitler's decisions and convictions are unknowable, and debunks some popular myths.     This book filled in a lot of gaps in my knowledge.  I learned a *lot* about WWII.    While the author properly introduces a few unknown figures (certainly unknown to me, such as the Norwegian Colonel Eriksen) and explains the weighty impact of their actions, his treatment of more prominent figures assumes prior knowledge.  Unless you already have some knowledge of World War II and know who these people are, you will be lost in the corresponding discussion of them --meaning a page or two at a time.     Another small nit to pick: the author says the \\"V\\" in \\"V-2\\" (rockets) stood for \\"Vergeltungswaffen\\" which he translates to \\"revenge weapons,\\" but \\"Vergeltung\\" actually means \\"repayment\\" or \\"retaliation.\\"  I would translate it as \\"retaliatory weapons.\\"    The last chapters include a concise summary of major events of the war to its end, and a sparse yet profound description of the solemn fall of the Reich, and how Europe was changed forever.  The earlier lives and backgrounds of Hitler and Churchill are touched on where necessary for clarity or insight, and I found it interesting.      The book includes a pretty good index.	2002-10-10
US	51016170	R17RIG3DNR1FVP	0596001320	743185491	Learning Perl, Third Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb!  I nearly highlighted the whole thing.	This is a MUST-HAVE FOR THE IMPATIENT BEGINNER WHO MUST GET SOMETHING DONE FAST.    I got some Perl experience two years ago and just started using it again.  This is very readable.  Most chapters had me itching to try things out.  I was amazed at the outrageous things one can do with this handy language.      This is what I would expect from a third edition: it is well-conceived and the examples are meaningful and comprehensive, i.e., they cover many \\"what if\\" situations that would normally occur as afterthoughts.  Most of the annoying humor and cuteness that ruins many IT books has been relegated to the footnotes.  The footnotes are dense with valuable fine points.  Every page is crammed with interesting information; it's a gold mine.  The authors *do* give away the store.    There are fun little exercises at the end of each chapter, with the answers in Appendix A.  (If you plan to use this as a class text, the exercises probably won't suffice; you may want to write more rigorous ones --and more of them.)  Covers Perl command-line commands and the most common Perl modules (of the 10,000+ that are out there now).  It clarifies the important distinction between Unix \\"globs\\" and regular expressions, and shows how to make your programs work with pipes.  It does not cover everything (for example, I found no mention of @INC); however, the authors repeatedly refer to \\"perldoc\\" to get you in the habit of using it.  The index is excellent.      In terms of usefulness, this was a dramatically greater value than the Perl Cookbook, which contains fine points I use only rarely.  It's worth much more than I paid for it --an excellent value.	2002-08-06
US	51016170	R3RN4PDTWVS1CK	1884313019	879251747	The Motorcycle Safety Foundation's Guide to Motorcycling Excellence: Skills, Knowledge, and Strategies for Riding Right	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Comprehensive.  Life supporting.  A must-have.	There's something for everyone here, beginners and experienced riders alike.  There are practical street strategies based on statistics from the USC - Hurt Study.  There is plain talk as well as technical discussion (for example, the physics of traction complete with free-body diagrams of tire forces) for those who want that.  Nothing is left out, from cornering, to collision avoidance, to how to select a helmet and other gear (including a first motorcycle!), to primers on off-road riding and motorcycle care, plus a good index, glossary, and spreadsheets of state requirements.  Many points are clarified with quality color illustrations and photos. It's as much as one can learn from a book, all in exchange for one of the ... bills in your wallet.  Call it cheap insurance, excellent value, or whatever you want, but *please* read this book!	2002-05-08
US	51016170	R2YH6XEIJW11E4	1588800458	880083547	Oracle8i DBA: Backup and Recovery Exam Cram (Exam: 1Z0-025)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superior for exam prep, and reference!	Its quality far surpasses that of the Exam Cram books I bought years ago for MCSE certification.  This is comprehensive, reliable, pertinent information and nothing else packed into a dense little book.  <br />I passed the exam on the first crack.  (I also used the Sybex materials but those are poor in comparison because they contain spotty information, much of which is flat wrong!)  Even if you just want to pass the exam, save yourself a lot of trouble: this book is the clear winner.  It's not perfect, but it is the best (better than the thick Oracle Press prep book, too).  Its imperfections are similar to those of the exam.<br />Chapters 10-12 are the \\"meat and potatoes\\" for an operational DBA who must know how to recover.  There is an excellent chapter on import/export.  There are three gruelling chapters on RMAN --just shut up and take it.  :)  My team nurses over fifty (50) Oracle databases for a large bank, and I'm buying a second copy to have at home for dial-in emergencies.  It has meticulous step-by-step procedures with sample commands.  I like this better than the highly-touted \\"8i Backup & Recovery Handbook\\" from Oracle Press.  No kidding.	2002-03-12
US	51016170	R1U8NM9E5KCKVW	1565921275	700492242	Essential System Administration (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A must-have, and NOT just for admins.	Did you know the \\"-p\\" option of \\"mkdir\\" can create several directory levels at once: \\"mkdir -p all/these/at/once\\" ?  Or that you can use \\"cp -p\\" to preserve the modification times of the original file?  Ever use \\"man -k <keyword>\\"?  After thirteen years of Unix, I learned many new tricks including commands I never used before but now can't live without, like xargs.  I now have a 100% rock-solid understanding of Unix file system permissions, including SUID, SGID, sticky bit, etc.  Many formerly nebulous areas are now crystal clear.    Someone criticized this book for harping too much on SCO, a less popular version of Unix.  It's true, but those parts are well-marked and quickly skipped.    I have bought some mediocre O'Reilly books, but this one's full of precious tidbits and lucid explanations.  It's a major confidence-booster, mandatory for aspiring power users and developers.  (If you are really doing system administration then the Nemeth, et. al. book is also a must-have; it's more pure admin.  If you feel you must choose between the two books, get off it and buy both!)  This will give you some knowledge your local admins don't have.  If you work in a competitive environment, this is some serious armament.	2001-10-02
US	51016170	R1AC93ZVE1RKSY	0867194731	865284607	"Hello My Big Big Honey!" Love Letters to Bangkok Bar Girls and Their Revealing Interviews	Books	1	16	21	N	Y	This is TRASH!!	Boring and laughably contrived, this \\"book\\" is about as authoritative and credible as a bunch of usenet posts.<br /><br />The preface, introduction, and prologue, allegedly written by different authors (one Brit, one American, and one Thai), share the same peculiar grammatical errors and dropped words.  Hmm.  Some of the letters also share these same peculiar grammatical errors.  Hmm.  How odd considering that one alleged author \\"holds a Master's degree from Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism.\\"<br /><br />The prologue, supposedly written by a Thai professor and lauded by the two authors for its insight, is about as thoughtful and compelling as the fake mini-sermon delivered by Jerry Springer at the end of his show.  Some of the letters share the same mannerisms that finger them as being written by the same person, and the letters are not organized in any fashion, such as by author or recipient.  The letters are not even dated.  Just a sloppy collection. Even the photos are unattractive.<br /><br />For the record, I've been buying stuff from Amazon for years and this is the only item I've ever returned.  Notice that the five-star reviews are voluminous with excessive quotations and double-spaced so as to displace other (legitimate) reviews.  Also notice that this is the only book they've reviewed.  Hmmm...	2001-07-22
US	51016170	R2TRQU3B6LZ7C4	0060957859	217732768	How to Work a Room: The Ultimate Guide to Savvy Socializing in Person and Online	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	It helped me.	I considered myself an introverted computer scientist.  I ordered this and Carducci's book at the same time, looking forward more to Carducci's book.  Fortunately this book arrived first, so I gave it a chance.    Don't misconstrue the title; it is not at all a book on manipulating others.    The first chapter --the introduction-- reads like an annoying motor-mouth oratory from Joan Rivers.  Persist.  Don't be concerned about how you're going to hold an entire book's worth of advice in your head while conversing because you won't need to; it pertains more to pre-schmooze preparation.  (In contrast, Carducci's book focuses more on real-time details of conversation.)  I've only read through chapter three and have not had time to get to the rest of it because I've been socializing!  I kid you not!  Sound too good to be true?  Bet you don't have as many doubts as I did.  Try it.  Some of the later chapters are on special situations (airplanes, trade shows, e-mail, etcetera); paging through those I found some pearls, so I look forward to finishing it.    These are light, easy  tips that analytical left-brain guys can follow.  I read that the author also teaches seminars, but who needs that?  Just get the book.  You are already on the right track for considering it.  There is probably a LOT less \\"wrong\\" with you than you might think, and this book is a fast, easy way to become the more sociable person that you want to become.     Amazingly, there is virtually no overlap between this book and Carducci's.  Carducci's book is more aimed at micro-details of what to talk about, very elementary.  I think the best book in this category is \\"Lifeskills for Adult Children\\" by the late Janet Woititz and Alan Garner; it begins with an excellent section on starting and maintaining conversations.    This book is light reading.  Try it!	2001-05-31
US	51016170	R2UC6L0RZK2OWD	0968772501	634914874	A Long Way to Go for A Date	Books	2	20	29	N	Y	Mediocre book with a precious lesson	This is one man's subjective account of procuring a \\"mail-order bride.\\"  I give the book two stars because the author (1) is competent at putting a sentence together (although I was surprised to learn that he has a Ph.D. in English literature); and (2) has some sense of what to write about with respect to his experience:  the chronology of events, his own fears and doubts as well as the those of the Filipinos, their customs, and the reasons they cite for their behaviors.     I withhold a higher rating because this book is tiresome and at times annoying.  The author is condescending toward Catholics and is xenophobic in general.  He is manipulative and dominates the girl, demanding that she change, and this gets depressing.  He continuously demands thanks, appreciation, and understanding from her and her family.  I have my own hang-ups and don't need such intimate contact with his.  I don't need a blow-by-blow account of the fight that erupts from virtually every contact between him and the girl; a slightly more objective viewpoint would have been more palatable.    Before the halfway point I felt I was forcing myself to finish it in ten-minute sessions.  Beyond the first half it is boring --mostly dated journal entries describing the fight du jour, or how he gave her a hard time about this or that.  I skipped ahead to the end and then backtracked as necessary to fill in the gaps.  While I won't spoil the end for you, I will say that it flashes a cautionary yellow light for those who intend to go this route.  I was surprised to find out that a woman can have her husband jailed on a whim just on her say-so (at least in Canada, where the author lives).  Ultimately I sympathized with him as much as with her, and I am grateful for the lesson learned.    Sometimes the first-name references are confusing. (Gilbert?  Let's see, who was Gilbert?  Ed?  Peter?)  There are misspellings (!), and missing words and punctuation.  Could he and the publisher have made the arrogant mistake of forgoing an editor to review the manuscript, or did the editor find it too boring to read himself?    To end on a positive note, his observations and poignant criticisms of feminism are refreshing.  He does not \\"softball it\\" and these are some funny, to-the-point pearls and one of the book's strengths.  He also describes how his marriage to a woman thirty years his junior *infuriated* most of his female acquaintances  [snicker].  The author is not misogynistic; he is simply unapologetic about wanting to be loved by a woman who is not disputatious, and that will resonate strongly with a lot of men.	2001-05-27
US	51016170	RLLE253YALAPR	185828435X	244658483	The Rough Guide to Hong Kong & Macau, 4th Edition	Books	2	21	21	N	N	It's below the Rough Guide standard.	Unreliable information punctuated with annoying feminist innuendos.  For the sake of political correctness the author lists gay spots which is OK with me, but he goes out of his way to label men who go into the girlie bars in Wanchai as \\"pathetic.\\"  This misses the point entirely.  A typical Rough Guide would give the reason to avoid those places:  one can unknowingly rack up a bar bill of US $500 within a few minutes just by buying drinks.  They bill you on the way out and there's no getting out of it by arguing with the management.  ([...]    The author chides prurient men in the streets of Macau whom he labels \\"creeps.\\"   Then he touts the Kingsway Hotel as \\"one of the newer and most glam of Macau's hotel creations,\\" having a \\"sauna and health spa\\"!  Had the phony actually BEEN to the hotel instead of just hearing that, he would have learned that the \\"Kingsway Sauna and Health Spa\\" is actually a brothel next door to the hotel, where one is presented with a crummy typewritten menu of services in the coarsest possible english, and that the entire second floor of the hotel itself is a sex club .This is inconsistent with the book's condescending, I-respect-women-as-people rhetoric.[...]      The Nathan Road addresses listed for accommodations in Tsim Sha Tsui (an area of Kowloon known as \\"TST\\" among English-speaking locals) are all wrong!  I had *never* before seen a Rough Guide  blow it in this regard!  I got tired of trying to make sense out of his wacky directions, whipped out my credit card, and stayed at the Holiday Inn. The author probably had someone else garner address numbers for him; I wondered if he had really been to TST at all.    One more example of how this book falls short:  I took the tram up to Victoria Peak --that was a great suggestion.  It was dinner time, so I went to the expensive restaurant on the tram level and was told there was a 45 minute wait with little hope of getting a window seat (with a view of Victoria Bay).  I found my way to another level (downstairs) and discovered a fast place simply called  \\"Eat Noodles.\\"  It was inexpensive with good-sized portions, and the food was very clean and delicious.  They brought it out to me on their spacious, uncrowded outdoor patio, where I enjoyed a *spectacular* unobscured view of the bay on a clear night and mingled with some neat people out there as well.  It was a real find!  But this peculiar, tongue-tied guide book makes no mention of any food at the tram terminal.    I give the book two stars for its lists of things to see and do.  It should mention that Ocean Park is primarily an activity for families with children.  The index could use more detail, but is adequate.  I paid for a Rough Guide and got something else. For Hong Kong, I suggest giving another guide book a chance.	2001-05-10
US	51016170	R3GW2LFUZL3GGK	1558605746	967990952	High-Performance Communication Networks, Second Edition (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Networking)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	The concepts are *NOT* explained thoroughly!	I am currently using this book for a graduate course in broadband networks. Like many books and software these days, this book was thrown together in fire-drill fashion. It has surprisingly few typographical errors and the chapter introductions are good overviews in terms of what services various nets are well-suited for, and how things evolved. However, this book's pseudo-explanations are consistently *incomplete* and confusing. I have read Chapters 1 through 6 so far. (Chapters 1-4 are primarily undergrad level &quot;network-ology.&quot;)<br />Here are just two examples from the myriad:<br />The Chap. 5 &quot;explanation&quot; of a SONET frame is woefully incomplete and confusing, and left me and my study partner with more questions than answers. One class meeting *after* this was introduced (when we had a chance to refer to this book for understanding), there was a *mob* around the prof. after lecture asking for clarification on the STS frame.<br />Chap. 6/ pp. 219-220 attempt to explain how SONET LOH byte H3 is used for frequency justification. Neither I nor the TA were able to glean any meaning from these paragraphs after several re-readings (which seem to suggest that the H1 byte itself is for overflow data, which of course would make no sense --H3 is a pointer like H1 and H2), and in the accompanying figures H3 points to nothing!<br />Here is a point that might not be the authors' fault, but: the AAL (ATM adaptation layer) header/trailer formats in the book are obsolete according to my professor, who supplied us with handouts of the current formats.<br />The chapter-end problems (which we are doing for homework) are *WAY* beyond the ken of the text, and all of us are desperately referring to other texts by Stallings and others, and wearing out the poor prof. and TA with questions. It is *not possible* to do the problems with this book as a sole reference.<br />If you need more than an overview, forget this book. A cursory flip-through of this book would havefooled me (from the diagrams) that it contains the detail I need, but the text leaves me crying for the clarity more typical of William Stallings' books!<br />I only came to Amazon this morning to buy *MORE* books (this time one on real analysis since I already have a John Freund book on statistics) to help me get the next homework done! I don't like posting a harsh criticism like this, but I was appalled to see a review praising this book's explanations.	2000-06-09
