US	51029362	ROIA7OP7WZIO4	1565843355	549099586	The Missing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good, solid book full of information.	Part memoir, part social commentary, this book is about missing people in Great Britain. It's a bit dated now as it was written before the internet came into widespread use, but much of what it says still applies. The book is not about specific cases so much as the phenomenon in general. O'Hagan, a journalist, interviewed runaways and homeless people in addition to law enforcement officials as part of his research. Much of what he says, especially about the people who die and are left undiscovered in their apartments for months, makes for very depressing reading. This book is well worth the time to look at and fostered greater awareness in myself, although I knew a great deal about missing people already.	2005-06-20
US	51029362	R1Q8B6GTUCO03V	0717132900	333158603	Missing: Missing Without a Trace in Ireland	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The authors gives much but also assumes much.	As the title indicates, this is a group of case studies of several women and children who have disappeared without a trace in Ireland and Northern Ireland. While the writing is rather dry, the individual cases are very detailed and the author also includes personal information about the missing people and their families, which makes them come to life for the reader.<br /><br />My only real objection is that Cummins invariably declares that the people he is writing about have been murdered. The book jacket, for instance, mentions \\"Annie McCarrick who was murdered in the Dublin-Wicklow mountains.\\" Annie's remains have never been found, no suspects have been arrested, and there are no witnesses and no hard evidence to indicate that she is in fact dead, let alone murdered. Granted, she probably was, but the assumptions about the missing people's fates seriously detract from the author's credibility. Still, in spite of this the book's details making it worth looking at.	2005-06-20
US	51029362	R3B54SICQORKEU	B00005VSHV	386071279	The Empty Robe: The Story of the Disappearance of Judge Crater	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Straight from the horse's mouth.	Told in the words of his wife, this is the story of the infamous disappearance of Judge Joseph Crater back in 1931. He was located. Stella Crater wrote a slim but solid account of the circumstances surrounding her husband's disappearance; the facts she gave seem to be accurate, as they match up with other accounts I have read. More importantly in my view, Stella gives an excellent portrait of her husband's personality and her own, and as you read about what happened to her during the search you come to grips with common problems in left-behind families that most people don't think about: for instance, she suffered numerous financial problems after her husband vanished because his income had of course stopped and most of their assets were in his name.<br /><br />The primary thing that stikes me about this book, however, is Stella's immense capacity for self-delusion and blind faith. It's really rather sad. She goes out of her way to assure the reader that her husband-whom she obviously adored-was an honest and honorable man in all aspects of his life and that he had never been unfaithful to her. She is absolutely sure of all this, in spite of ample evidence of Judge Crater's extramarital affairs and political corruption and in spite of the fact that prior to his disappearance Stella really knew very little about his finances or his business life. She didn't even find out he had been appointed to the state Supreme Court until she read it in the newspapers after the induction ceremony. This book is definitely worth reading for the characterization alone, it you can find it (like most of the books on this list, it's out of print). There is also another, more recent book about the Crater disappearance which might do well for a comparison.	2005-06-20
US	51029362	R20NBDE7HUXOQ0	B0006BQ944	458094853	Little Charley Ross: The Shocking Story of America's First Kidnapping for Ransom	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A good and accurate account	As far as I know it's the only full and detailed account of Charley Ross's abduction. This fascinating case is sadly all but forgotten today; I wish they would bring this book back into print so more people could know Charley's story.<br /><br />While the historian in me wishes Zierold had footnoted his sources,<br /><br />Little Charley Ross seems to be an accurate and unbiased book, with many details I had not previously known and a centerfold of interesting pictures. My only wish is that he could have included his own theory as to Charley's fate, perhaps in the afterwood. However, this is a minor quibble and the book is well worth reading without it.<br /><br />Highly recommended, if you can get a copy.	2005-05-21
US	51029362	R3S0MW8ZLOECI5	0786814667	764067632	Name Me Nobody	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Complications marred what might have been a good book.	I liked the story in \\"Name Me Nobody\\". Everyone knows the tales about girls who lose their best friends when their friend finds a boyfriend. \\"Name Me Nobody\\" puts a twist on the old familiar theme: Emi-Lou lost her best friend Von to Von's GIRLFRIEND. This is original and I like originality. Five points for that.<br />  However, the book was very hard to follow. The huge cast of characters, many of them going by several names, frustrated me and I didn't know what was going on half the time. For instance, there's Genevieve and Viva. They're the same person. I think. But I'm not sure. I think the author could have tried harder to make the book clear and easy to follow. Minus one point for that.<br />  Another thing that annoyed me was the language. The pidgin English did add to the authenticity of the story, which is set in Hawaii. But many times the characters inserted Japanese words into their speech and I could only guess as to what the Japanese meant. This would not have been a problem had their been a glossary enclosed, like in John Marsden's books where everyone speaks Aussie. But \\"Name Me Nobody\\" had no glossary, so the language just kept me guessing. Minus one point for hard to understand.<br />  It was a good book, but these flaws annoyed me and I'm not inclined to buy it, or even check it out from the library again.	2003-01-16
US	51029362	R3HUOOV1QD9CB3	0689835647	655818898	The Long Night of Leo and Bree	Books	1	1	3	N	Y	Nice try but...	Some have compared this book to Robert Cormier's \\"Tenderness\\" and there are some similarities: teenaged boy who is not quite right in the head kidnaps teenaged girl with homicide in mind, but spares her, and in their time together they develop an affinity for each other. However, there is a crucial difference: \\"Tenderness\\" is good. \\"The Long Night of Leo and Bree\\" is not.<br />  I really found the ending unbelieveable. Sometimes kidnap victims do end up falling for their captors. But Leo and Bree just didn't quite make the mark. In \\"Tenderness\\" it easy to see how Lori could fall for Eric in spite of who he is, because Lori is incredibly screwed up. Bree isn't. The book did not do an adequate job of explaining how a level-headed if slightly spoiled girl could lose her head that badly.<br />  In addition, both characters tasted of corrugated cardboard -- not quite two-dimensional but not well-rounded either. There are girls from wealthy overbearing families, and there are boys who drop out of school to care for their moms, but there's got to be more to the picture than that. Leo and Bree both felt sort of cookie cutter.<br />  It was a good idea but something went badly wrong in the making. I was very disappointed in this book; I recommend \\"Hard Love\\" by the same author instead of this novel.	2002-11-20
US	51029362	R2N5BP71POX9DN	0142301477	334363344	Counterfeit Son	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Were it not for the ending, I might have loved it.	Cameron Miller's father is a sadistic serial killer. He deeply enjoys beating and sexually abusing his son, and when he tires of this he kidnaps a boy and locks Cameron in the cellar, and Cameron has to listen to the victim until the screaming stops. This is his life; he knows no other. He can't remember much of his childhood, but seems to think that it's perfectly normal to be abused in such a fashion. Cameron survives by being totally obedient. He does whatever his father says. The reason the boys die is because they won't obey. Cameron notes that one boy who came did obey, and lived for three weeks, but went berserk and started screaming and throwing things, and Cameron's dad had to kill him.<br />Cameron gets a lucky break when his father is killed in a police shootout. He goes through his father's newspaper files on all the victims and decides to try to pass himself off as one of them, a boy named Neil Lacey. He picked Neil because he bore a strong resemblance to the boy, and because he knew Neil's family was wealthy (though another victim had been even wealthier) and had sailboats. Neil's parents immediately embraced him, but Neil's younger sister and the police detective in charge of the case were suspicious. Nevertheless, Cameron thought he could pull it off -- until one of his father's criminal associates showed up and started blackmailing him, and threatening to kidnap Neil's younger brother.<br />If it wasn't for the ending, I would have really liked this book. The ending is not quite so bad as in Terry Trueman's \\"Stuck in Neutral\\" but it certainly makes the book lose credibility. I'm not going to say what the ending is, except that Cameron Miller knows way more about how to sail a yacht than he should. Nonetheless, I would recommend this book, perhaps as a companion to Catherine Atkins's \\"When Jeff Comes Home\\".	2002-10-27
US	51029362	R3RBMKCO9LEAJL	0064472795	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	1	4	9	N	N	Even worse than the prequel, if that is possible.	Since I hated the first book, I'm not entirely sure which evil demon possessed me to buy the sequel and I wish I hadn't bought it. Oh well. At least I waited for it to come out in paperback. And at least I certainly won't be buying the third book.<br />About six weeks ago, fourteen-year-old Mia Thermopolis found out she was the Crown Princess of Genovia and sole heir to the Genovian throne. This new diary begins with her mother announcing that she is pregnant. The father of the baby is Mia's algebra teacher, no less, and she is going to marry him. How humiliating! What's a girl to do?<br />Then Mia's grandmother pretty much forces her to do this interview on national television. Naturally, Mia botches it in front of the entire world. Among other things, she lets slip that her mom is pregnant -- something her mother wanted to keep a secret for awhile. When Grandm&eacute;re finds out, she immediately hijacks the plans for Mia's mother's wedding and totally changes them, inviting a whole bunch of celebrities such as Donald Trump. Also, Mia is recieving email messages from a secret admirer who calls himself \\"JoSeeRox\\".<br />This book is just as contrived as the original, and so comic it's strained beyond belief. Mia is every bit as whiny and annoying as she was in the previous novel. I cannot understand why this series is so popular!	2002-10-26
US	51029362	R149GCQYW2H7G4	0515103012	629245416	From Cradle to Grave: The Short Lives and Strange Deaths of Marybeth Tinning's Nine Children	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very good overview of the Tinning case.	Marybeth Tinning's case is fascinating. She had nine children and every single one of them died before they reached school age. There was Barbara, Joseph, Mary, Jonathan, Nathan, Michael, Timothy, Jennifer, and Tami Lynne. Jennifer was the first to go, born sickly and dying after a few days without ever leaving the hospital. It is thought that this is the only Tinning child to have died of natural causes. Marybeth murdered the other eight.<br />It was thought that Barbara and Joseph, the oldest Tinning children who died a short time after Jennifer, died of Reyes Syndrome. People thought it was odd, though, that Marybeth never shed a tear. As the children were born and buried one after another, their deaths were mostly chalked up to SIDS or something similar. It got to be kind of local joke: \\"Look at the birth announcements; the Tinnings had another baby. I wonder how long this one will last?\\" Many suspected Marybeth of having killed the babies, but some thought it was just a genetic deformity in the family. That was, until the Tinning's two-year-old adopted son, Michael, died for no apparent reason. That's when the authorities started to move in.<br />This book covers Marybeth Tinning's life, marriage, the births and deaths of her children, and her trial and subsequent imprisonment. It's clear that she suffers from Munchausen's Syndrome by Proxy, the pathological need to injure those close to her and bask in the sympathy she gets. It's a fascinating story, though I admit the characters didn't seem all that real to me -- more like ink on paper than actual human beings. I recommend this book anyway, for all true-crime fans and those curious about infanticide.	2002-10-26
US	51029362	R30XWRA5VF1XOA	0689824750	566776303	Among the Hidden (Shadow Children #1)	Books	2	10	18	N	N	Interesting idea. Could have been a great book but didn't.	Luke is a third child. To control population growth, the Government has mandated that each family may have two children, and only two children. Luke's mother had two boys, Matthew and Mark, then gave birth to Luke. She couldn't bear to turn him over to the Government, so she kept him hidden. Luke cannot go to school. Luke cannot talk to anyone outside his family. And now that a housing development has sprung up behind the family farm, Luke cannot go outside even at night. His life depends on it: if he's found out, he will be executed.<br />He thinks he's alone in the world until one day, peeking out the attic window, he sees a little girl in the house behind him. A little girl, in a house where two little boys already live. Excited, he rushes over to the house and she lets him in. Her name is Jen, and yes, she is a third child. Jen does not want to stay hidden forever. Jen is determined to change things somehow.<br />It was a good concept but the writing ruined it. The book was overall very weak, especially the ending. And the characters, especially Jen, taste like flat, dry cardboard. The only ones that felt remotely real to me were Luke's parents. Among the Hidden is part of a trilogy but based on this first novel I don't think I'll read the other two.	2002-10-26
US	51029362	R3S18B671K2A1K	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I felt sorry for him!	My favorite Thomas Harris book of the three I've read, this is the story of an FBI agent named Will Graham on the tail of a incredible serial killer. He'll pick out a family, break into their house, and shoot them all, one by one. He's very smart, leaving hardly any clues. Even the profilers don't have much on him.<br />You also see the book from the point of view of the killer, a man named Francis Dolarhyde -- and Harris actually made me feel sorry for the man. He was born illegitimate. The harelip that mars his face that was never surgically corrected. His mother abandoned him and he was raised first in a bleak orphanage, then with various relatives who never cared for him, including a grandmother who put Norman Bates's mom to shame. Now he works for a photo lab and speaks with a lisp and is dating a beautiful blind woman named Reba. And he's trying to stop killing, because Reba doesn't deserve a boyfriend who's a murderer, now does she?<br />This is a fine book, though the ending didn't make all that much sense. What I admire most is Thomas Harris's ability to get me to pity this terrible killer. While I loved \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\", I think \\"The Red Dragon\\" was better. Hannibal plays a minor part in this story but the real meat of the plot goes to Francis, who is as worthy of it as the doctor if not more so.	2002-10-26
US	51029362	R258MWQIXZPSHW	0440228603	225656371	Checkers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The mental hospital thing was clich&eacute;d, but the book was good	Told in first-person flashbacks and set in the mental hospital where the nameless protagonist recovers from a nervous breakdown, this story's message is: \\"The higher you climb, the harder you fall.\\" Wealth and privilege cannot save your family from scandal, our protagonist learns, especially when your father is involved in dishonest business practices a la Enron.<br />The only honest relationship the girl has is with her mongrel dog, Checkers. She seeks comfort in his company as the media circles like vultures around her house, looking for a way to connect the girl's father to the stock market scandal that's brewing. She would never have thought that the connection they were looking for was sleeping on the rug in front of her fire.<br />I really liked this novel, and would have loved it if it wasn't about the fortieth book I've read that's set in a mental hospital. Mental hospitals have become way too clich&eacute;d in young adult literature. Other than that, though, it was a terrific story.	2002-10-26
US	51029362	R2PE5H40Z9AXU2	0590458817	875790014	From The Notebooks Of Melanin Sun	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A good book on a worthy topic	For as long as thirteen-year-old Melanin Sun can remember, it's been just him and his mom. His father walked off before he was born. His mother never dated much. Usually after just two or three dates with a man she'd lose interest. Melanin Sun was happy with his life and family situation...until his mom discovered the pretty white lawyer named Kristin.<br />Melanin Sun was horrified. His mother! His very own mother was a dyke! Did this mean Melanin Sun would grow up gay? Kissing Angie from down the street gave him a rush of butterflies in his stomach, but still. What if his friends found out? He'd be the<br />laughingstock of his block.<br />Through diary exerpts and straightforward narrative, Melanin Sun bears his soul to the reader with painful clarity. Angry and confused about sex and love and racial issues, he tried to punish his mother by shutting her out of his life and refusing to even talk to Kristin. When his friends found out, one of them did indeed make fun of his mother and it became clear that they would not be friends anymore. However Melanin Sun's other friend accepted the situation, so things were not as bad as he originally thought.<br />Over the course of summer, Melanin Sun had to confront many issues he had about racism, sexuality, and tolerance. Shortly before school started he finally began to accept his mother's new lifestyle by accompanying her to the beach with her lover. The winner of the Coretta Scott King award, From the Notebooks of Melanin Sun is a very readable book that treats heavy issues in a gentle way.	2002-10-13
US	51029362	R1R2UYVFAWWQRF	0140349812	615819495	Lyddie (Puffin Books)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The reform movement through the eyes of an ordinary person	While I knew about the mills in Lowell in the 1800s, I'd never read a book about them. Katherine Paterson's wonderful novel tells all the details you'd want to know, from the broken warp threads on the mechanical looms to the crowded boarding houses where girls normally slept four or even six to a room. The book also touches on other issues like abolitionism, labor reform, women's rights and sexual harassment in the workplace.<br />Thirteen-year-old Lyddie was essentially sold into slavery in 1843. Her father, who had disappeared years before, had debts and Lyddie and her younger brother Charles had to work to pay them off. Meanwhile their mother had fled to her sister's house with her two youngest children. For a year Lyddie worked as a kitchen girl for an inn. It was dreadful work, sixteen hours a day or longer. The inn's owner sent fifty cents a week to Lyddie's mother when she could remember to do so.<br />Lyddie met a girl staying at the inn who wore a silk dress and seemed very rich. The girl worked at the weaving factories in Lowell, she told Lyddie, and got paid two dollars a week. Fascinated by the sum, Lyddie left the inn to work at the factories and hopefully fulfill her dream of paying off the debts and getting her family farm back. That's where the story really began.<br />The working conditions, by modern standards, were horrible. The machines made such a terrible noise you could hardly hear yourself think. You were on your feet most of time, tending three or four looms at once, for thirteen hours a day starting at 5:30. There were only half-hour breaks for breakfast and lunch. The lint that floated thickly in the air of the factories affected the workers' health, giving many of them potentially fatal lung problems from inhalation. Also, there was always the danger of a shuttle flying off the loom and hitting a worker on the head. Girls also got their long hair caught in the looms. It could pull the scalp clean off.<br />Nevertheless, the pay was good. Lyddie was essentially a slave to her wages, saving every penny that she could. She made friends with Diana Goss, who was a labor reformer, but refused to have anything to do with the movement. \\"If we worked ten-hour days we'd be paid less,\\" she said plaintively. \\"Don't you see? We'd be paid much less.\\" Lyddie lived and breathed her dream of getting her farm back, but that dream was shattered when her mother died in an insane asylum and her aunt and uncle sold the farm and kept the money. Lyddie was entrusted with the care of her young sister Rachel, and put her to work in the factory as well, but when Rachel started coughing she had to be sent away. Lyddie did the work and her bank account grew, but she was a machine as much as the looms were. She thought nothing and took no enjoyment in anything.<br />Meanwhile, Lyddie was having increasing problems with the overseer, Mr. Marsden. He was making sexual advances to her and other girls. When Lyddie finally caught him attempting to molest a friend of hers, she threw a bucket at him and was fired for \\"moral turpitude\\". Only then was she finally free, no longer a wage slave, and realized how much money could buy. Her hard life had strengthened her character and she decided to pass up the safety of marriage and go off to get an education. The story ends there.<br />I really enjoyed it. The detail was excellent and the characterizations good. It's a nice change to read a book about labor reform that's not written from the point of view of a reformer. Most people were like Lyddie, keeping their heads down and just doing their job. Kathering Paterson wrote an excellent book!ood. Lyddie was essentially a slave to her wages, saving every penny that she could. She made friends with Diana Goss, who was a labor reformer, but refused to have anything to do with the movement. \\"If we worked ten-hour days we'd be paid less,\\" she said plaintively. \\"Don't you see? We'd be paid much less.\\" Lyddie lived and breathed her dream of getting her farm back, but that dream was shattered when her mother died in an insane asylum and her aunt and uncle sold the farm and kept the money. Lyddie was entrusted with the care of her young sister Rachel, and put her to work in the factory as well, but when Rachel started coughing she had to be sent away. Lyddie did the work and her bank account grew, but she was a machine as much as the looms were. She thought nothing and took no enjoyment in anything. <br />Meanwhile, Lyddie was having increasing problems with the overseer, Mr. Marsden. He was making sexual advances to her and other girls. When Lyddie finally caught him attempting to molest a friend of hers, she threw a bucket at him and was fired for \\"moral turpitude\\". Only then was she finally free, no longer a wage slave, and realized how much money could buy. Her hard life had strengthened her character and she decided to pass up the safety of marriage and go off to get an education. The story ends there. <br />I really enjoyed it. The detail was excellent and the characterizations good. It's a nice change to read a book about labor reform that's not written from the point of view of a reformer. Most people were like Lyddie, keeping their heads down and just doing their job. Kathering Paterson wrote an excellent book!	2002-09-30
US	51029362	R2OSTUUJ4WCGJ0	0761325743	392709272	Hanging on to Max (Single Titles)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Terrific except for the final scene	Everyone has heard the stories about the struggles teenaged, unmarried mothers face when they decide to keep their infants. YA books on the subject are common to the point of clich&eacute;. However, Hanging Onto Max is the old story with a new twist: Sam Pettigrew is a teenaged father.<br />He took custody of his son at age sixteen, when the boy's mother decided she could no longer handle the pressures of child care. Sam didn't want to see little Max given away to strangers, but raising him by himself was just as difficult. He certainly didn't get much help from his widowed father. Sam's dad agreed to support Sam financially until he graduated high school, but then Sam had to go to work immediately and pay back every penny. Sam, who scored 1320 on his SAT, would have to give up his dream of engineering school. But it was worth it to hold onto Max...wasn't it?<br />Transferring away from his friends to an alternative high school that provided day care, Sam struggled to juggle the responsibilities of school and fatherhood. He never had a minute to himself and hardly ever saw his old friends. But he had to keep Max, right? After all, Sam was all the baby had in the world. However, one day when Sam turned his back for two minutes and Max got into an accident and ended up in the emergency room, he realized his could not go on. Hanging onto Max wasn't helping anybody, especially Max himself.<br />This was a very good story, hilarious in some places and heart-tearing in others. I could sympathize with Sam and understand his motivations and even why his dad was the way he was. My only objection is to the final chapter, when Sam is reunited with a now-grown-up Max. It seemed anticlimatic and was not necessary in my opinion. Other than that I thought this was a fine book.	2002-09-30
US	51029362	R2521REL9LYAMJ	0440219035	110371274	Tunes for Bears to Dance To	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Probably for fans only	I have been a Robert Cormier fan for over four years now and deeply enjoyed all of his books. \\"Tunes for Bears to Dance To\\" is meant for a younger audience than most of his work. It is suitable for perhaps fifth grade and up; the protagonist, Henry, is eleven.<br />The book deals with many issues such as racism, depression and grief, and child abuse. Henry is trying to be a good boy though his family has been torn apart by the hit-and-run death of his brother. His father has lapsed into an almost catatonic depression and his mother is away all the time, working double shifts struggling to pay the bills. Henry tries to pull his weight with a job stocking groceries: and there the antagonist is introduced. It's his evil boss, Mr. Hairston.<br />Mr. Hairston says nasty things about his customers behind their backs and abuses his young daughter. (Henry's naive eyes do not percieve the abuse, but to the reader it is all too clear.) But the real issue at hand is his racism towards Mr. Levine, a Jewish Holocaust survivor and Henry's friend. When Mr. Hairston learns of Henry's desire to get a gravestone for his brother (his family cannot afford them) he offers a deal: \\"I'll buy you a stone, but you have to do something for me.\\" The \\"something\\" Henry has to do is smash Mr. Levine's beloved toy village that he's been painstakingly carving for months.<br />This conflict, while ingeneous, is introduced late in the story and resolved rather hastily, in only two or three pages. The story could have been much more powerful than it was; it seemed rather diluted, like strong wine watered down. Cormier fans will appreciate it for Henry's young, innocent narration and Mr. Hairston's surpreme evilness, but those not familiar with the author's work will probably find this book to be nothing better than toilet reading.	2002-09-10
US	51029362	R34XUPHYB9REZI	0425182797	275702815	The Lottery Rose	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Evocative and haunting	When seven-year-old Georgie is beaten nearly to death by his mother and her boyfriend, the police take him out of his home and put him in a Catholic boarding school for boys. The only posession he brings with him is a rosebush he won in a lottery. At first, Georgie behaves like your typical abused child -- he is crabby and doesn't trust anybody. That especially includes Molly Harper, a woman who lives next door to the school.<br />Molly lost a child about Georgie's age and at the beginning of the book she wanted nothing to do with little boys, and was furious when she found out that Georgie planted his rosebush in her garden. She ripped it out, earning Georgie's wrath. Molly later regretted her actions and allowed him to replant the bush, but he wouldn't forgive her. He'd spend lots of time in the company of Mr. Collier, her father, and Robin, her adorable retarded son, but he would barely speak to Molly.<br />Through the kindness of Molly, Mr. Collier, the nuns who taught at the school, and his classmates, Georgie was eventually able to rise out of his earlier life and become a happy-go-lucky, lovable little boy. He even was able to forgive Molly. When tragedy struck, he and Molly both realized anew how much they meant to each other. While the book didn't say, I forsee Molly adopting Georgie in the future.<br />This is a wonderful novel. The child abuse, while graphic, is not gratituous. The characters were very real and understandable, even Georgie's mother and her boyfriend. Portions of this book made me weep, which is not something that can be said for most books. I highly recommend, especially to anyone who is a mother that lost a child, or who is interested in child abuse and its aftermath.	2002-09-01
US	51029362	R1433181PI1OWZ	0439165865	608296775	Sondok: Princess of the Moon and Stars (Royal Diaries)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A book of astronomic quality!	In ancient Asia, females, as a general rule, were not allowed to rule. They could only be the wives of kings and emperors. However, in Silla in 595, it's a girl who is heir apparent to the throne of Silla (now called South Korea). Fourteen-year-old Sondok has no brothers and her mother is too old to have any more children. Her father's brothers are all dead and they didn't have any sons either. Thus, it is she who must inherit the throne.<br />Sondok thinks she's up to the job. She comes across as forthright and intelligent as she writes in her diary. She's especially fascinated by astronomy, and displays her skill at it by correctly predicting an eclipse. Unfortunately this earns her the wrath of the Chinese ambassador, also an astronomer, who predicted the wrong date. \\"Astronomy is not for women,\\" Lin Fang says. \\"Go do something female like look after silkworms.\\" Sondok tries to win him over, but he is unmoved. Worse yet, her father agrees with the ambassador and forbids his daughter to study the moon and stars!<br />This is the principal conflict in this narrative. There are some others: Sondok's father casts aside his old wife and takes a new, younger one whom he hopes will bear him a son. Sondok is in love with someone whom she cannot marry, as he is below her station, and when he goes off to be a Buddhist monk she wonders if she'll ever see him again. She wonders a lot about religions: Korean Buddhism vs. Chinese Confucianism.<br />Sondok: Princess of the Moon and Stars is one of my favorite books in the royal diaries, entertaining and quite historically accurate. I'd recommend it to young girls nine and up, especially those interested in Korean culture and astronomy.	2002-08-27
US	51029362	R30Y1G3Z6DCNRG	0439223504	83106131	The Royal Diaries: Jahanara, Princess Of Princesses: India, 1627 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	She's getting better all the time!	I thought Kathryn Lasky was going great with Marie Antoinette and Mary of Scots, but with Jahanara she's gotten even better. I'd never even heard of this seventeenth-century Indian princess before I read this book, but now I want to know more about her. And that's the ultimate goal for writers of historical fiction, isn't it?<br />Jahanara, despite being the highest-ranking princess in the Indian royal family and owning jewels the size of robin's eggs, leads a pretty dull life. She is almost never permitted to venture outside the harem where she lives with her younger siblings and her father's many wives. And when she does leave, she must wear a thick veil to conceal all of her features, as is customary with Muslim women. She worries constantly about her family. Her father is the emperor of India, but his stepmother Nur Mahal is constantly plotting against him to the point where he once has to fake his own death to escape her clutches.<br />Two of Jahanara's younger brothers, Dara and Aurangzeb, were taken political hostage by Nur Mahal and she worried constantly for their safety. Then they returned, Aurangzeb was not the same person who had left. He had not only become a militant Islamic who hated all things that were not Muslim (as compared to Jahanara and Dara who snuck food to eat during Ramadan), he was also greedy and power-hungry. Though he had two older brothers, Aurangzeb was determined to become emperor and Jahanara was sure he would kill for the privilege. Thus the royal court of India swirled with intrigue, even behind the screens of the harem.<br />I found this to be very interesting book, especially in the descriptions of courtly dress and manner. I had only two small problems with it. There was a minor subplot where Jahanara adopted a street child which I found unnecessary, as it added nothing to the story. And at the end of the book there were two large gaps in the diary entries, one of a year, the other of several months, with weak explanations for them. It was as if Kathryn Lasky was in a big hurry to finish the book and get to the final dramatic climax. However those are only small squabbles I have. The historical note is very interesting and informative. It tells the fate of Jahanara's family, and<br />states that it was for Jahanara's mother that the Taj Mahal was built.<br />In a nutshell, I loved this book.or them. It was as if Kathryn Lasky was in a big hurry to finish the book and get to the final dramatic climax. However those are only small squabbles I have. The historical note is very interesting and informative. It tells the fate of Jahanara's family, and<BR>states that it was for Jahanara's mother that the Taj Mahal was built. <br />In a nutshell, I loved this book.	2002-08-26
US	51029362	R33YA3P6PO4PSX	0590567330	266900195	A Light in the Storm: The Civil War Diary of Amelia Martin (Dear America)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Except for the divorce bit, it was quite enjoyable.	Part of the \\"Dear America\\" series, this is the diary of Amelia Martin, a sixteen-year-old lighthouse keeper living with her parents in Delaware during 1860. I found it was one of the better ones of the series. (Since there are many authors, the quality of Dear America books tends to vary.)<br />Delaware was a border state, and consequently there was a lot of arguing over slavery and cecession and the Civil War. Amelia's father sided with the North. He had used to be a ship captain but was fired when he was caught transporting escaped slaves up north, so now he works at the lighthouse with Amelia's help. Amelia's mother sided with the South. Her parents' political differences, as well as Amelia's mother's hatred of living so close to the sea, tore their marriage apart. They actually got divorced, which was quite a rarity back then.<br />There are many reasons why I liked this book so much. Amelia's descriptions of lighthouse work were very detailed. I could clearly see how difficult a job it was: standing in the lighthouse on eight-hour shifts keeping the flame lit and staring out at the sea, and having to row out and save lives whenever a ship foundered on the rocks. I see how much Amelia loved her job, and how much her mother hated it, and why.<br />Amelia's confusion and worry over the war was quite understandable. At the beginning of the story she thought slaves were simpleminded creatures who needed to be enslaved cause they couldn't look after themselves. But as the book progressed her opinion turned until she sided with her father. Amelia's boyfriend was off fighting for the Union and she missed him a lot.<br />There were only two problems I had with the book. One was the divorce. There were, like, six million married couples back then and only six thousand divorces. While I saw that Mr. and Mrs. Martin couldn't live together, I don't think they would have actually filed. I think it would have been more realistic if they just went their separate ways. Also, in the epilogue it says Amelia married her boyfriend but they split up a short time later and never lived together again. That didn't ring true with what I knew about their characters. I wish that had been more adequately explained. But other than that I really enjoyed this diary., in the epilogue it says Amelia married her boyfriend but they split up a short time later and never lived together again. That didn't ring true with what I knew about their characters. I wish that had been more adequately explained. But other than that I really enjoyed this diary.	2002-08-10
US	51029362	R33OSFHG0MOA9O	0440229332	792816575	Both Sides Now	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Quite a fine book.	Liza, at fifteen, is no typical teenager. She jogs, studies hard and gets straight A's, is very responsible, and doesn't drink or smoke. She's nothing like her mother Rebecca, who spent two years working on a novel she couldn't publish. But then everything changes when Rebecca's breast cancer, thought cured, reasserts itself. Within a month Liza flunks driver's ed because she can't concentrate, gets into huge trouble when she forgets to read a school newspaper article before publishing it, and gets drunk with a boyfriend. Her family is all torn apart with worry over Rebecca, who may not survive her cancer.<br />All of the story is written in the first person present tense, like Ruth Pennebaker's other two novels. Most of it is from Liza's point of view, but there are some interesting vignettes narrated by Rebecca. The doctors cut off both her breasts trying to stop the cancer. Then they decided to do a stem-cell transplant, a very extreme treatment that keeps you on the brink of death for weeks. It almost kills a person, but it might just save their life.<br />At that time Liza overhears her parents fighting. \\"I haven't stopped hoping,\\" Rebecca says. \\"I'm just hoping for something else not.\\" Some time later she tells her children that she's decided not to have the stem-cell transplant. It's not worth it, she says. The story ends there, leaving it up to the reader to decide whether or not Rebecca survives her cancer. At the back of the book you discover that Ruth Pennebaker is a cancer survivor too.<br />It was a fine book, though I liked the other two better. My favorite character was Liza's best friend Rory, a \\"slut\\" who's slept with eleven guys since entering high school. You can see how Rory's slutishness is really a result of underlying insecurity, but the wholeschool condemns her. All of the characters were well-drawn. I would recommend.	2002-07-24
US	51029362	R1ONBZK70IZMM6	0380705001	867916034	Tallahassee Higgins	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Fine book, though it could have been much better.	Tallahassee Higgins reckon's she's got to be the unhappiest twelve-year-old in the world when her free-spirited, unconventional, flighty young mother Liz leaves her at an aunt and uncle's house while Liz goes off to Hollywood to hit it big. She does poorly in school, her only friend's mother hates her guts, and she has to have things like bedtimes and is made to do her homework. Tallahassee, who is not used to following rules, constantly argues with her Aunt Thelma over them. Every day she hopes Liz will hit it big and send for her.<br />There are two principal conflicts in the story. The first and most realistic in my opinion is Tallahassee's longing for her mother, longing to be with her. It is obvious to the reader and all the characters except Tallahassee herself that Liz is not going to pick her up anytime within the near future. Quite conceivably Tallahassee will be living with her aunt and uncle for years. Liz, like Kathy in Rainbow Jordan, loves her daughter in her own way but is not capable of taking care of her. And, like Rainbow, Tallahassee doesn't see this and regards her mother as something close to an angel. She's got a lot to learn.<br />The second conflict is Tallahassee's pondering as to who her father was. Liz never said. Tallahassee only knows that she isn't blonde and beautiful like her mom; she has freckles and big teeth and red hair. \\"You take after your father,\\" Liz always said. Tallahassee never gave the matter much thought till she saw a photograph of Liz's long-dead childhood sweetheart who used to live in the neighborhood...and he looks just like her.<br />The young man, who was killed in Vietnam, does in fact turn out to be Tallahassee's father. However I think it would have been a better literary device if (a) Tallahassee hadn't been so sure and (b) Maybe he wasn't her real father after all, maybe it was coincidence. But she asked Liz when Liz came for a very short visit, and Liz told her the truth.<br />While the book does a good rendering of complicated family relationships and a child's love for her mother, I think it could have used some work...endering of complicated family relationships and a child's love for her mother, I think it could have used some work...	2002-07-12
US	51029362	R21YQ44SMGRRWK	0451181859	936790339	A Rock and a Hard Place: One Boy's Triumphant Story	Books	1	129	140	N	Y	Telling lies to the reader is wrong.	A Rock and a Hard Place, like Go Ask Alice before it, is a supposedly true \\"memoir\\" but is in fact patently obvious fiction. I read it for the first time when I was about twelve and I remember thinking, \\"This sounds so fake.\\" Three years later I found out that people had done some looking into Anthony Godby Johnson and found that there was nothing to see -- he didn't exist. The book is made up out of whole cloth.<br />It purports to be the biography of fourteen-year-old Anthony \\"Tony\\", who is dying of AIDS. He lead a miserable life. His parents seemed normal on the surface, but behind closed doors they beat him and starved him and abused him sexually and lent him out to their friends. This how he became infected. Tony's friends are mostly dead or gone: David committed suicide, Joey overdosed on cocaine, and Alison got lost in the nightmare of addiction and disillusionment. His future is bleak, the only ray of light being the loving family who adopted him when he was eleven.<br />I didn't like this book when I thought it was true, and I don't like it any better now. It's overly moralistic, Tony is too good to be true, and the dialogue is stilted beyond belief. It's nothing but a lot of anti-homosexual propaganda. Above all I hate it that they say the book is a true story. That's decieving the readers, and for a book to be successful the reader has to believe in it.<br />I would not recommend A Rock and a Hard Place to anyone.	2002-06-20
US	51029362	R340V81OJ27NO8	0590319906	804942061	When She Was Good	Books	5	3	5	N	N	I loved this book!	When Pamela collapsed and died on the kitchen floor, her sister Em didn't exactly mourn her passing. Pamela was mentally ill and both physically and verbally abusive, and Em was rather glad to get rid of her. But without her sister, she felt lost. She had known nothing of life without Pamela, and now she was totally on her own.<br />The book is written in three sections. The first one details what happened to Em right after Pamela died suddenly of a stroke at age twenty-two. Em was only eighteen herself, but quite self-reliant. The second section is Em and Pamela's history: their family background, and what lead them to run away from home. \\"Take care of your sister,\\" Em's mother always told her every day before she died, and Em tried. But after Em's father married a woman both girls hated, they decided to run away and make it on their own. The third section is Em trying to put her life in order without Pamela. Slowly she begins to climb out of the black pit. She finds a job doing secretarial work for a compassionate man, and makes a few friends.<br />I thought it was a beautifully wrought piece of work. You can see the sisterly bond between Pamela and Em, even though they hated each other, and the book also clearly shows the effects mental illness can have on family dynamics. Pamela tore her family and her sister apart. Now quiet, courageous Em has to pick up the pieces.	2002-06-19
US	51029362	R1MV2UKFAJNKP7	0689817851	160336401	Go Ask Alice	Books	1	11	14	N	N	It's dishonest to say this is a true book -- it's not.	Go Ask Alice is purported to be the true diary of a fifteen-year-old drug user in the late sixties or early seventies, and Beatrice Sparks only the editor, but when I read it I realized there was a reason it was on the Fiction shelf of the library. It is quite obviously fictional and not very good fiction at that.<br />I think the purpose of this book is meant to scare people into never trying drugs. The narrarator of this diary had her life ruined by them, the book says. It's like Beatrice Sparks is saying, \\"Use LSD and you might end up in a mental home like this girl. Smoke pot and you might get so wasted you end up in another state without remembering how you got there, just like this girl.\\" That is total bull. Smoke pot and all you're likely to do is veg out in front of the television. I cannot speak for LSD as I've never taken it.<br />...	2002-06-19
US	51029362	R15Q7HB0TQQ27I	0380589745	884647587	Rainbow Jordan	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Better than her first book, I think.	Alice Childress's second novel for children, and written in the same sort of Harlemese as A Hero Ain't Nothin' But a Sandwich, this is the story of fourteen-year-old Rainbow Jordan. Her single mother, Kathie, is a go-go dancer and flighty. Every couple of weeks she'll take off on a gig and leave Rainbow alone in their apartment. Usually when this happens Rainbow goes to say with Miss Josie, her foster mother, who cares a lot about Rainbow but is preoccupied with the breakup of her twenty-year marriage. On the street Rainbow's got a girlfriend, Beryl, who earns spending money with casual prostitution, and a boyfriend, Eljay, who keeps pressuring her to go all the way.<br />The story is told from three points of view: Kathie, Rainbow, and Miss Josie. Kathie does love her daughter in her own way, but as Rainbow says, \\"her way don't weigh much\\". A good example of this is when Kathie went out and bought Rainbow some new, pretty clothes. But she had to use the babysitter money to pay for them, and because of this she had to leave Rainbow, then five years old, alone in the house for several hours. Miss Josie on the other hand cares about Rainbow in a much more mature way. Rainbow thinks little of either of them.<br />I thought A Hero Ain't Nothin' But a Sandwich was good, but I think I liked Rainbow Jordan better. The situations in the book -- irresponsible parents, boyfriends that keep nagging you to have sex with them, men that abandon their families -- are real and just as applicable today as they were back in 1982 when the book was written.	2002-06-13
US	51029362	R1FKV2B7LRC11C	0698118545	116486176	A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Different from what I usually read, but I loved it.	Set sometime in the sixties or early seventies, this book is written in the dialet of urban blacks. Thirteen-year-old Benjie is like a lot of ghetto children: he's black, he's poor, he hasn't got a father, and he's heavily using heroin. Oh, he's not addicted. He can stop anytime he wants. But his mother and her boyfriend are getting fed up because he's stealing all their stuff and selling it for drug money, and his friends have noticed a change in his behavior too. When the teachers see him stoned at school, they send him up for detoxification and<br />treatment.<br />The story is told from several points of view: Benjie, his mother's boyfriend who wants to think of him as a son, two of his teachers who fight with each other but deeply care about their students, and his best friend who's concerned about him. The shift in viewpoints can be jarring. I think it's meant to show how heroin not only destroys the person who's on it, but the people around him/her too.<br />I liked this book. While I couldn't identify with the characters and the dialect was somewhat difficult to read, I got a good picture of what was going on. I really liked Benjie's teacher Nigeria Greene. (I think his name says all about him.) I would recommend this to anyone who's interested in learning about ghetto life or drug addiction.	2002-05-30
US	51029362	R2VF6TEYCL1Y5D	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magic with a twist.	I don't usually read fantasy stories, but this one caught my eye in the library when I was eight. I read it and was so enthralled that I bought my own copy, which I still have. A rather funny tale, it's set in the late 19-teens or early 1920s and centers around four children who discover a nickel in the sidewalk that's not a nickel: it's a magic talisman.<br />The talisman is not entirely magic, the children discover. It's half magic. It grants half of each thing they wish. The results are hilarious: just a desert instead of a desert island, a dollhouse fire instead of a house fire, half-invisiblity, and so on. It's magic with a twist, and I enjoyed it very much.	2002-05-26
US	51029362	R6IY0W1IVON7W	0141303107	754585463	Going Solo	Books	5	20	20	N	N	It's a pity there isn't a sequel to this one.	In this sequel to Boy, Roald Dahl writes about his life as a young adult. After leaving Repton, his boarding school, he signed on with the Shell Oil Company and was sent to East Africa, which is now called Tanzania. While Dahl was serving in Tanzania, World War II happened and he signed up with the Royal Air Force. He chronicles in detail his work for Shell, and his experiences as an RAF pilot.<br />In East Africa, Roald Dahl had a near-fatal encounter with a deadly black mamba, whose poison can kill you in about two seconds. Right after the war broke out Roald's servant, a descendant of warrior tribesman, decided to become a warrior himself and killed a civillian. Roald had to spirit him away before the murder was discovered. And just to show how dangerous flying with the RAF was, one day when Roald returned from a mission his tent-mate told him, \\"I boiled enough tea for two, just in case you happened to come back.\\" He was eventually shot down, but survived. While recuperating in the hospital, he fell in love with his nurse.<br />Going Solo was, like all of Dahl's books, wonderful. I only wish he'd have written a third about his later adulthood. Pity he died before he could do that.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R1YAHHSG5GSDF7	0451166841	744129404	Lisa, Bright and Dark	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Dated.	Lisa is smart, pretty, popular and going insane. On \\"bright days\\" she's normal. On \\"dark days\\" she just sits there at her schooldesk and listens to the voices inside her head. Realizing that she is ill, she asks her parents to take her to a psychiatrist. They ignore the problem and say she's just going through a stage.<br />Lisa begins to act increasingly bizarrely. An episode of self-mutilation at school earns her a six-week vacation in Florida, but no actual help. By then her teachers have realized that something is seriously wrong, but their hands are tied. The only people who really try to help Lisa are her friends: Mary Nell, Betsy, and Elizabeth. Together they form a therapy group where Lisa sits and talks to them about what's going on. But it doesn't help. Lisa walks through a plate-glass window; her parents still don't pay attention. Only when she attempts suicide do they really wake up.<br />I found this book to be rather dated. It was written back in the sixties. The parents' reaction was unbelievable and the ending came too quickly and too fairy-taleishly. I'm not saying it was a terrible book, but I've read many that were much better.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R3QSIONV4FYTRZ	0786011041	226892536	I Know My First Name Is Steven	Books	4	20	24	N	N	Not Ann Rule quality, but still worth reading.	Falling into the category of true crime, this is the story of young Steven Stayner, who was kidnapped at the age of seven in 1972, while walking home from school. His abductor, a pedophile named Kenneth Parnell, told him, \\"I've gone to court and gotten custody of you. I've changed your name to Dennis Parnell, and you're to call me 'Dad'.\\" Steven was only a child and naive. He accepted Parnell's story and lived with him for seven years, going to school and acting like a normal child...except his \\"father\\" raped him every night.<br />It's a really sad story, to make a massive understatement. When Steven reached his teens and became too old to satisfy his \\"father\\", Parnell kidnapped a five-year-old. Steven had had enough by them. He took the child and went to the police station and told the officers that he had been missing since 1972. But when he returned home, things were not the same. Steven never got any counseling for his traumatic experiences. His kidnapper served all of three years in prison for his crimes. Steven flunked out of high school, drank and used drugs, and was promiscuous. Just when he finally seemed to settle down, he got killed in a motorcycle accident.<br />A few years ago this book was brought back into print with an afterword about Steven's serial killer older brother Cary Stayner. Now it's out of print again, but try to locate a copy if you like this sort of thing. While not of Ann Rule quality, I Know My First Name is Steven is a fine book.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R1FV50289FKRWI	0689824750	962626423	Among the Hidden (Shadow Children #1)	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Overall weak.	Luke is a third child. To control population growth, the Government has mandated that each family may have two children, and only two children. Luke's mother had two boys, Matthew and Mark, then gave birth to Luke. She couldn't bear to turn him over to the Government, so she kept him hidden. Luke cannot go to school. Luke cannot talk to anyone outside his family. And now that a housing development has sprung up behind the family farm, Luke cannot go outside even at night. His life depends on it: if he's found out, he will be executed. <br />He thinks he's alone in the world until one day, peeking out the attic window, he sees a little girl in the house behind him. A little girl, in a house where two little boys already live. Excited, he rushes over to the house and she lets him in. Her name is Jen, and yes, she is a third child. Jen does not want to stay hidden forever. Jen is determined to change things somehow, or die trying. To her, being hidden is like a living death anyway.<br />It was a good concept but the execution was misfired. The book was overall very weak, especially the ending. It's part of a trilogy but based on this first novel I don't think I'll read the other two.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R2S5G39SHD3HMV	0060012269	879145234	The Buffalo Tree	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A haunting, lyrical story.	When twelve-year-old Sura got caught clipping hoodies, they slapped with a six-month sentence in Hamstock, a juvenile detention center. Most juvenile detention centers keep you until you've reformed. At Hamstock, they keep you until they feel like letting you go.<br />This book, written in the language of the street, details Sura serving time at the center with his patch mate and best friend Coly Jo, who got sent up for breaking into people's homes to watch them sleep. As Sura somehow breaks through the mire and rises to the top, Coly Jo is beaten down both physically and emotionally. At the end Sura is set free, and has learned to appreciate life at home with his mother, though I doubt he'll be there for long.<br />An excellent novel, once you learn to decipher the street slang. Not that the slang is bad; it adds to the credibility of the story and I learned lots of new words.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R3TLOSIZNLIAFW	0380810980	461251395	3 Nbs of Julian Drew	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A survival story.	Julian is an abused child. His mother is dead, his demented stepmother starves him and locks him in his room and makes him do all the chores in the house, and his father lets her. The story is told in diary form of Julian's three notebooks, or \\"Nbs\\" as he calls them. The notebooks are written in code so that if his father and stepmother should discover them, they would have difficulty reading. The reader also has difficulty at first, as it takes some detective work to decipher the code.<br />The thing I liked most about the book is Julian's strength of spirit. With the support of his English teacher and a classmate, he is able to get a job, run away, and make a new life for himself. When I looked at James Deem's website, it says the story is based on the author's own experiences. And you can tell. It's really good, though the code can be a bit annoying.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R19RHZ381ZN428	0786806184	228348729	Amandine	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Could have been much better than it was.	This is the second book I read by Adele Griffin and while it was okay, I sort of wish I hadn't bought it in hardcover. It's about a friendship between two girls, Delia and Amandine. Delia has a secret that isn't revealed until the end of the book. Amandine, however, is a pathological liar and when Delia catches her in her lies, Amandine accuses Delia's father of molesting her. The situation gets to be so bad that Delia and her family leave town.<br />It could have been a really great story but instead it turned out to be just average. Adele Griffin never really explains why Delia and Amandine are so messed up. And there didn't seem to be any climax or resolution, just straight through. On the whole it was good but it could have been a lot better.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R2ERDLBD9HVJEY	0141303050	754585463	Boy: Tales of Childhood (Popular Penguins)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great book from a great writer.	If you've ever wondered where Roald Dahl got his stories, you should read his memoir of his childhood. You'll find a lot of his inspiration there. Beginning with a short biography of his father and ending at age eighteen when he leaves school, Roald Dahl chronicles in vivid detail his childhood life.<br />I thought it was a very entertaining book. Roald had a pretty interesting life. He was involved in the Great Mouse Plot of 1924, spent several years in various hellish boarding schools, and nearly lost his nose in a car accident during his teens. This book is not for children only; older people will like it too.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	RJZLRCS7UI3J9	0440227623	110567445	Hate You	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	It wasn't as good as it could have been.	Hate You has a very interesting, original plot. Seventeen-year-old Alice Silvers is smart and a talented songwriter. But she can't sing her own songs, or anybody else's songs. She can hardly even talk. She has a voice \\"like Frankenstein\\", because her father choaked her ten years ago and damaged her larynx. Alice hasn't seen her father since that night, but her hatred of smolders contanstly in her life.<br />I thought it was a good book, up until the end. At the end of the story, Alice gets word that her father is dying of cancer in a nearby hospital and has only a few days to live. She goes to see him and screams at him about choking her, and how much she hates him. Her father can only sit there helplessly. A few days later he dies, and Alice feels better.<br />I didn't think this was a good ending. Somehow it doesn't seem realistic that the confrontation would bring peace to Alice. Hatred only creates more hatred. But other than that element, it was a very good book, with well-written characters.	2002-05-23
US	51029362	R4XXPB0TUEMCC	0064401871	571846578	A Little Princess	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent story for children.	This book is a children's classic, containing all the elements of a fairy tale. There's a villain, a good person, a magician, a princess in disguise, and a \\"happily ever after\\" ending. Except, unlike a fairy tale, it could have happened.<br />Sara Crewe's officer father sent her to an English boarding school when she was seven. Because she was rich, the ambitious headmistress of the school, Miss Minchin, spoiled her. Then Sara's father lost all his money and died, leaving Sara a pauper in Miss Minchin's care. Miss Minchin put her to work at what was essentially slave labor, scrubbing floors and shoveling coal from dawn to dusk at no pay and very little in the way of food and other necessities of life. Sara was about to despair, when mysterious things started showing up in her room. Hot meals laid out for her in the morning and evening. Then a rug for the bare floor. Then a warm nightgown to wear, and a new blanket for the bed. She didn't know what was happening, and assumed it was magic.<br />It was a fine book, very good for children I think. My only problem is that Sara, like most of Frances Hodgson Burnett's characters, seemed too good to be true. She was never angry at Miss Minchin for treating her cruelly. When she found fourpence in the street, she bought food and gave almost all of it to a beggar girl even though she herself was starving. And so on. But other than that it was great.	2002-05-20
US	51029362	REV773SPKPQ1G	0141308362	567220668	Lost in the War	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I got a little bit bored with it.	Set in 1982, the story of a family who has been totally consumed by Vietnam. Lisa and Jenny's father was killed in Vietnam. Their mother still quite regularly wakes up screaming in the middle of night due to her experiences nursing wounded and dying soldiers. When Lisa's teacher announces the class will be studying Vietnam, she wants nothing to do with it. As she tells him, she hears quite enough about Vietnam at home. But he convinces her to participate anyway, and bring her mother in to talk to the class, and it turns into a healing experience for the entire family.<br />It was an okay book, but I think it could have been a lot better. After seven chapters of nothing but Vietnam I was saying to myself, \\"Surely that can't be the only thing these people think about?\\" Good if you're fanatically interested in Vietnam, maybe, but I am not.	2002-05-20
US	51029362	R2TWXYNV4WN7LC	0374371407	156943316	Spellbound	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Predictable, but still a fine story.	Raven was a project girl, but a great student with high ambitions who was sure she'd make it into college. But then one day when she was sixteen and at a party, she just couldn't say no to the young man she met and she ended up pregnant. That seemed to be the end of everything: she'd be just like her mother, living in the projects on public assistence, with no money or future or hope. Then Raven's older sister found out about a program called Spell For Success, where the winner of a spelling bee was awarded a full college scholarship. She talked Raven into trying out.<br />A lot of stuff happens in the book besides the spelling bee. Maybe a little too much. Raven's best friend, Ai, is also a single mother high school dropout, and Raven finds out that she's pregnant with her second child. Raven also has a chance encounter with her baby's father, who is only fifteen.<br />The book was rather predictable, and I kind of wish I hadn't bought it in hardcover, but it was still good. I particularly liked the way Raven and Ai talked. Their language sounded very real to me.	2002-05-20
US	51029362	R111UCVEFNGUV6	0380797631	556400278	Last Days of Summer	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely brilliant.	Last Days of Summer is told in unique format, in the form of newspaper clippings, notes, ticket stubs, and other miscellania. It's set in the late 1930s and early 1940s, up until World War II, and told from the point of view of young Joey Margolis, growing up with his mother in Brooklyn.<br />Joey needs a hero. His parents are divorced and his father doesn't seem to know he's alive. He gets beaten up every time he leaves his house because he's Jewish. And he just got sent up to Juvy for peeing in the resevoir. So he fixates himself on a young baseball player named Charlie Banks, and basically begins stalking him through the mail, bombarding him with letters. At first Charlie is like, \\"Beep off, kid. I don't want you around.\\" But Joey's persistence wins him over and it's the start of a beautiful friendship.<br />Last Days of Summer was a great book. Charlie was my favorite character. The pre-war world is captured with perfection, and I really liked the format. Boring old prose is pass&eacute;, I guess. I would recommend this book to anybody who likes nostalgic stories, and anyone who likes baseball. The only thing I disliked, was it contained a lot of baseball stuff I didn't understand.	2002-05-20
US	51029362	R3KA9DVJW7I1ZZ	067400082X	254229182	Kidnapped: Child Abduction in America	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	One of the most informative books about child abduction	If you're really interested in missing children and child kidnappings, like I am, this is definately the book for you. It begins with the heartbreaking 1874 ransom abduction of Charley Ross from Pennsylvania. His father refused to pay the ransom, not because he didn't love his son, but because he thought kidnappers should not profit from their crime. Charley never returned home. The next chapter is about the Lindbergh baby, then Leopold and Loeb, and so on. It ends with modern kidnappings: Etan Patz, Kevin Collins and Polly Klaas. There's also a chapter on parental abduction. In other words, this book is very extensive.<br />While it's a very \\"academic\\" book, it's not dull like a textbook. I found it very entertaining, with a nice centerfold of photographs. This book should definately have a place on anybody's true crime shelf.	2002-05-15
US	51029362	RKFFLJLA3MMJB	0451166604	824428233	Small Sacrifices: A True Story of Passion and Murder	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ann Rule at her best!	This was the first Ann Rule book I've read, and while I've read most of the others by now, I still think this is the best. Ann Rule is most talented at writing about psychopathic, manipulative females. This book really excited my emotions -- I felt burning hatred for Diane, and I nearly cried at the descriptions of what her poor kids went through. Especially brave little Christie. At the end of the book Ann Rule wrote about Diane's psychiatric diagnoses in prison: she's both a psychopath and a narcissist. A narcissist loves only herself. A psychopath has no conscience. It's a terrible combination. If Diane ever comes up for parole, maybe this book will help keep her in the public eye and off the streets. I sure hope so.	2002-05-15
US	51029362	R1CW0WYOFLMA1W	0380814137	670713572	Without a Trace: The Disappearance of Amy Billig--A Mother's Search for Justice	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Not especially well-written, but a great story.	The title of \\"Without a Trace\\" is kind of misleading, since Amy did leave traces -- sightings all over the country etc. I've always been curious about the Billig case and this book tells you everything you need to know. There is also a good inset of photographs. The characterization of Amy is adequate, but her mother is more vividly described. My favorite character was Sue Billig because of how dedicated she was to finding her daughter. She would even go into biker bars and everything and risk getting raped or killed, looking for Amy.<br />  The book is no literary masterpiece. There are no plot devices. But it tells the story thoroughly and well, and I recommend to all true-crime fans, especially those who are curious about missing people.	2002-05-01
US	51029362	RY3BKTVP675HZ	086571231X	688228440	Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An excellent overview of everything wrong with the system.	John Taylor Gatto, when he wants to persuade you of something, is very eloquent. As each chapter unfolds his theories make more and more sense. He speaks the truth and he speaks it well when he talks about what's wrong with America's schools. I went to school until eighth grade, then I had to get out. I was suicidal by then. I basically crawled into a hole during my freshman year and didn't emerge until I was fifteen and started to attend college, which I like a lot better. I plan to homeschool my children. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is homeschooled or wants to be, or who wants to homeschool their kids.	2002-05-01
US	51029362	RAZL7V6TV481A	0060290994	63778849	Damage	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Been there, done that.	Having finished \\"Damage\\", I can only conclude that the author must have been severely depressed at one point in her life. Nobody could write about the illness so realistically unless she experienced it herself. I know, because I've been there.<br />  It looks like everything's going for Austin. He's a football star. He's good-looking and has good friends. He just got a beautiful new girlfriend. But Austin has a secret -- he's depressed. So depressed it's difficult to get out of bed in the mornings. He lies there and stares out the window and thinks about suicide. But he's afraid to tell anyone about his problem, not even his girlfriend Heather, whose father killed himself when she was little.<br />  The author never gives a main reason for Austin's depression, which I like, because in my experience depression never has a single cause. You get hints about his dead father, but that's it. Many people might be annoyed by this, but I am not.<br />  I like the ending too: Austin tried to tell Heather his problem, but she freaked out, and he ended up opening up to somebody else who had been concerned for him since the very beginning. You get the feeling that Austin's friend is going to help him, and he'll start rising out of the black pit he's in.<br />  An excellent novel. A. M. Jenkins tells it like is. I'll be sure to read all of her other books; I just hope they're half as good as \\"Damage\\".	2002-04-29
US	51029362	R1JUU9VM78ZV1C	0064472132	140262789	Stuck in Neutral	Books	2	4	5	N	N	The inconclusive ending [threw] me off.	This was a great book, mostly. Shawn McDaniel has cerebral palsy really bad. He has a lot of seizures and no voluntary muscle control. Everyone thinks he's an idiot, a vegetable, because he can't communicate to them how smart he is. He can't even focus his eyes half the time. Shawn's voice left a strong impression and the story -- Shawn's fear that his father was going to kill him to \\"put him out of his misery\\" -- was original and very good.<br />  So why did you rate it a two out of five? you ask. Because the ending really made me mad. You never find out whether his dad killed him or not. It was like the author couldn't make up his mind and was like \\"aw, the heck with it\\". The ending left me hanging, with a bad taste in my mouth.<br />  It was very good but due to the last chapter I could not honestly recommend it to anybody.	2002-04-21
US	51029362	R3KLZY0KGYKCA2	014130703X	500416959	Rough Waters	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It wasn't that I didn't like the book...	...it's just that the book was kind of cliche. Gregg especially. His parents die and he reacts by drinking, smoking, using drugs, and keeping bad company. It reminded me of one of those sappy 1930s movies.<br /> And the ending didn't ring true. Gregg put his entire family and his friends in mortal danger, and one of them is most likely dead as a result of his actions, and he showed not one iota of remorse or regret. Then his good old Uncle Rocky has a talk with him and suddenly he's normal again. It didn't make sense -- Rocky has tried to talk to Gregg many times and Gregg never listened before; why should he do so now?<br /> Scott on the other hand was a little too good to be true. The only \\"bad\\" thing he did in the entire book was go to that party with his girlfriend and drink underage, and it was only about half a glass. I could definately see where Gregg was coming from when he called Scott a goody-goody.<br /> But despite my criticisms here, I did like the book. The rafting scenes in particular were very good. I just with the author could have rounded out the characters a bit more.	2002-03-26
US	51029362	R31M0RXYO22LJW	0786816414	209704292	The Body of Christopher Creed	Books	5	1	3	N	N	I read it while driving!	\\"The Body of Christopher Creed\\" is a long book, and though I got it in the mail in the morning and read it under my test throughout the schoolday, I still wasn't done by the time classes were over. I had to go home, but I simply Could Not Put It Down, so I read it while driving home: one eye on the page, and one on the road. This goes to show what a great book this is.<br />  This novel has all the elements I like: a boarding school, a school outcast, child abuse, a missing person, etc. It's a great mystery and some parts are darkly funny. My favorite scene is when Torey discovers the body in the burial ground. For awhile I believed it really was Chris Creed, though he'd said in the beginning that he thinks Chris is still alive. I think that too, and like to think of Chris out there making his way into the world alone.<br />  The characters were very well-drawn. No stereotypes, no cliches. My favorite was either Chris or Ally, I can't decide. That's another thing I like in a novel -- good characters.<br />  I've been told this is Carol Plum-Ucci's first novel. Well, if future ones are anything close to the quality for this, then she is going to go far.	2002-02-20
US	51029362	R2P74ZHJR92ZNG	0141306963	409397086	The Facts Speak for Themselves	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The facts DO speak for themselves.	At the beginning of this story, thirteen-year-old Linda is brought to the police station after witnessing a murder-suicide. The gunman was her mother's boyfriend. The victim was her mother's employer, and Linda's lover. At the prompting of her social worker she tells her life story, beginning from when she was very small. And she's had a pretty nasty life.<br />  Linda and her situation remind me rather of Leshaya in Han Nolan's \\"Born Blue\\". Both of their fathers are gone. Both of them are regularly abandoned by their mothers and left pretty much to take care of their own.<br />  Her story is starkly told. She's slightly dull-witted and doesn't always understand what's going on around her, but the reader can read between the lines. Her mother is unstable, promiscuous, and unable to take care of her children. Linda is a mother figure to her two younger brothers, and always has been. She's very strong and self-reliant and can take care of herself and others on her own for long periods. She talks in a flat tone about being molested by so many of her mother's boyfriends....	2002-02-04
US	51029362	R24KW14X014N9Z	0898799015	186685584	The Writer's Guide to Character Traits: Includes Profiles of Human Behaviors and Personality Types (Writer's Market Library)	Books	4	4	13	N	N	Interesting but useless in any practical sense.	This book is essentially a listing of information about various personality types, and mental illnesses, etc. It's a very interesting read and I enjoyed it a lot. The problem, though, is that for a writer it's kind of useless. One can pick up information on mental illness by reading other books which specialize in the subject. And if you need to be told all these things about people's personalities, then you're probably not going to make a good writer anyway. A writer of fiction needs to know about people and how they work, and if you really need this book then you've got quite a long way to go.	2002-01-24
US	51029362	R257P6TCY3D0DG	0152380418	104416879	If I Should Die Before I Wake	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A bit rough around the edges, but still good.	&quot;If I Should Die Before I Wake&quot; is Han Nolan's first novel and in some ways it is the best. In other ways, far from the best. The story is about a teenaged Neo-Nazi, Hilary, who's lying in a Jewish hospital after having been severly injured in a motorcycle wreck. In the next room is Chana, an old Jewish Holocaust survivor who is dying of cancer. While they are in their respective comas their minds sort of merge, and Hilary dreams about what happened to Chana during the Holocaust. When she wakes up, Chana is dead but Hilary is a changed person.<br />There are many strengths and weaknesses to this novel. Hilary's mother seemed kind of contrived. The part where Hilary's Aryan Nation friends set fire to the hospital was, in my opinion, totally unnecessary. I think it was meant to show Hilary's mother's love for her daughter -- she refused to leave the girl's bedside even when the building was burning -- but Han Nolan could have thought of a better way. Hilary's memories of life before the accident were kind of sketchy, and it was hard to comprehend why she'd join that fascist group. And the ending of the book, Hilary's awakening and encountering Chana's sister, seemed kind of fairy-taleish.<br />But Chana's story is brilliant. Without sensationalism, Han Nolan described to perfection what life was like for a European Jew in the thirties and forties: the ghettoes, scrambling for food, Chana's family members disappearing or dying one by one. My favorite character was her grandmother, Bubbe, but every one was poignant and believeable. The night after I read this book, I dreamed of Chana and Auschwitz.<br />I have read all of Han Nolan's books, and this is my favorite excepting &quot;Born Blue&quot;. She is a brilliant writer, and in my opinion Chana's story in this book make up for all the other flaws. I highly recommend.	2002-01-06
US	51029362	RKYF69PMSAJHP	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of my favorite classics.	&quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot; is mainly about the trial of a black man for raping a white woman -- an offense not taken lightly in 1930s Alabama. And while a rape trial is very serious topic, Harper Lee chooses to write the book from the point of view of an eight-year-old girl. She takes her time getting around to the trial, writing at length about the exploits of Scout, her brother Jem, and their friend Dill. There are lots of laughs -- particularly the night the three of them went to see Boo Radley's house, and Jem ripped his pants so badly he had to return home without them.<br />There are also lots of tearful moments, especially after Tom Robinson got convicted and after he died. He hadn't raped the girl and everyone in town knew it, but essentially he was condemned from the moment after Mayella screamed. The ending, however, is sort of a happy one in spite of what happened to Tom.<br />Yet, not all people in town are racist rednecks. Harper Lee does not go into stereotype. Plenty of white people supported Tom Robinson, Atticus most of all. I met a woman who named her son after Atticus Finch, and after reading the book I can see why. He was my favorite character in the book because of his high-mindedness and fair sense of justice.<br />All in all a terrific piece of work, one that will make its readers think differently after they're done.	2001-12-22
US	51029362	R133T450UV9VIG	0786701242	975995627	The Complete History of Jack the Ripper	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Without a doubt the best book on the subject.	Jack the Ripper has been a fascination of mine for five or so years, and I've read lots of books about him and the murders, but &quot;The Complete History&quot; is surely the best. It's very accurate -- Sugden derives his information directly from the case files and press reports, instead of borrowing from previous books which can be misleading. In fact, he even goes out of the way to point out and correct errors from previous books.<br />And not only is the book very accurate, it is entertaining. A lot of Ripper books seem to be kind of dry, but not this one. I could see everything that was going on. Sugden made me feel for the victims, especially Annie Chapman and Liz Stride, and he did a good job portraying the terrible conditions and poverty of the East End.<br />Best of all in my opinion, the book does not advance Sugden's pet theory. He does talk about a few suspects, and remarks that one is more likely than the others, but he does say that there is no evidence against the man. It's a nice change from other Ripper books who go through comical contortions to pin the case on one particular individual.<br />It's a terrific book -- I've read it several times. If you must only read one book on Jack the Ripper, pick this one!	2001-12-16
US	51029362	RDF3OJ15J4C56	0786813334	950826651	The Other Shepards	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	One of the best books I've ever read.	I can confidently state that Adele Griffin, when I read her other books, will probably become one of my favorite authors. I LOVED &quot;The Other Shepards&quot;. My older brother died in a car wreck when I was a toddler, too young to really know or remember, so I sort of understand what Holland and Geneva were going through. (I loved their names. I wish I had a name like Geneva.) Holland seemed to be the realistic older sister -- wishing to help Geneva but becoming understandably impatient at times with her sister's bizarre behavior. I didn't realize Annie was a ghost till the end, though I thought she seemed pretty peculiar. Not much actually happened in the story -- I'd call it a novel of adjustment -- but it was a pleasant read. I'd highly recommend it.	2001-11-17
US	51029362	R3V91NKUTGOEKY	0671868713	966435098	And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Too long.	Ann Rule was one of my favorite writers, and still is, but I can't say I much care for \\"And Never Let Her Go\\". It's not a bad book, but it's way too long. I got bored in places. Ann just seemed to go on and on and on and on and ON about Anne Marie and everyone. I mean, 700 pages devoted to just one murder. By comparison her Ted Bundy book (and he killed scores of women) was only 550. I really think this book could have used another few passes at the editting table, for cuts. Also, I don't think Debby MacIntyre is the innocent put-upon Ann makes her out to be. In her book \\"Small Sacrifices\\", Ann wrote that Diane Downs ruined her marriage but she was careful to point out that Steve Downs wasn't exactly a saint. I wish she had done the same with Debby and Tom -- Tom is a [...] no doubt, but Debby did after all have an affair with her friend's husband. Kay Capano and Anne Marie Fahey are the wronged women in this story, not Debby MacIntyre.	2001-11-17
US	51029362	R1SPPS3CT21YEQ	0064462188	348818876	Stop Pretending: What Happened When My Big Sister Went Crazy	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Brilliant story.	After reading Robert Cormier's &quot;Frenchtown Summer&quot;, I decided I ought to try to find more books written in free verse. &quot;Stop Pretending&quot; is every bit as good as &quot;Frenchtown Summer&quot; was. I could easily see the narrarator's mortification, sadness, and fear. I had a brother who was committed to a psychiatric ward when I was ten, but it was a somewhat different experience as (a) he was only there for a day (b) he was not crazy (c) we have always despised each other anyway, unlike Cookie and her sister. I think the book was much better told in poetry than it would have been in ordinary prose. My favorite poem was &quot;No Matter What&quot;. All in all, a brilliant work and I'm itching to get my hands on Sonya Sones's other book.	2001-11-14
US	51029362	R1LDOLEGXBUYBR	0671042815	866458955	Dream Catcher: A Memoir	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Reads like a second draft.	I bought this book a year ago and read it once and haven't touched it in the past thirteen months, so my observations might not be as sound as some others on here. But here's what I thought when I read the book: it needed just a little bit more editting. Peggy is a fine writer and she clearly conveyed to me how hard it was to live up to her family name and all, but I think the book was rushed to the presses too soon. She keeps going off on tangents. Like, towards the beginning she mentions her dad is Jewish -- then she goes off for several pages of statistics on what it is like to be a Jew in America, all sorts of information that has nothing to do with Peggy or J. D. as people. This is why I give this book four stars -- another go at the editor's desk and it would have been five.	2001-11-12
US	51029362	RN5WF34GC3LPI	0440228344	725638564	Conditions of Love (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great coming-of-age story.	The story didn't really have a major conflict in it. It was subtle; generally it was about Sarah's learning the truth about her father, and about her drifting apart from her best friend. I would have liked to know more about Madeleine, but all in all it was a great book. It had a wistful tone to it throughout the entire story. Sarah's relationship with Ellie reminded me of mine with my former best friend, though our break was nowhere near as gentle. Not much actually happened in the story, but that's not a problem if the characters are good enough, which they were.	2001-11-01
US	51029362	R1NX2MQYPB9Q6U	0399233660	298132998	When Jeff Comes Home	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Terrific.	I'm really interested in kidnappings and have read lots of books about them, both fiction and nonfiction. This I think is one of my favorites. All the characters were very well done, particularly Jeff and Vin. Vin was my favorite character, the way he wouldn't give up, trying to help Jeff even as Jeff pushed him away. What happened to Jeff, the beatings and the molestations, are written about in such a way so that you know it all but not too much -- many writers less talented would turn this story into something like sadomasochistic pornography, but Catherine Atkins is much more subtle than that. Jeff's recovery with all the fits and starts seems realistic to me, and I felt like cheering when he said he was ready to talk though of course it will be years before he ever feels really safe again. A great novel; I look forward to reading future works by this author.	2001-11-01
US	51029362	R2U4CE4LHNFMVL	0816039798	814899696	The Encyclopedia of Serial Killers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	All the serial killers you've never heard of.	Quite a comprehensive book. It contained biographies of like, hundreds of serial killers, many of whom were completely unknown to me. A bit sensationalized, yes, but not overly so. I only wish they had lists of the victims' names -- I have always focused on the victims rather than the murderers. And more photographs would have been nice also.	2001-11-01
US	51029362	R1Y1H1WZ5W5YI3	0805067299	537602009	Don't Think Twice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Kind of like &quot;Speak&quot; by Laurie Halse Anderson.	I found the story somewhat similar to Anderson's book &quot;Speak&quot;, though of course Anne was not raped. Their voices -- sardonic, somewhat cynical, humorous, kind of like Ambrose Bierce -- were similar. Anne was a very astute observer who describes her fellow unwed mothers vividly. Details like the fake wedding rings they had to wear when they left the home made it all real to me. I'd never read a story set in an unwed mothers home before and didn't know what it was like, but this story told a lot. You could see how Anne matured throughout the story. The description of her infant is poignant; it might make some readers cry. She did the right thing by giving the baby up.	2001-11-01
US	51029362	R2WPBQS89JXCR2	0064472345	853648728	Vanishing (Laura Geringer Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant characters	If there's one thing I hate in a novel, it's poor characterization. (Actually there are other things I hate in books, but bad characterization tops the list.) If there's one thing I love, it's good characterization. And \\"Vanishing\\" has very well-drawn characters. Rex was my favorite, probably everyone's favorite. If I ever get a terminal illness I hope I can be as upbeat as him. The premise was interesting too, and I liked the descriptions of Alice's hallucinations. The book was, however, shorter than I would have liked, and the ending -- (spoiler) -- is kind of fairy tale-ish. But still, a great book, suitable I think for 12 and up.	2001-11-01
US	51029362	R2EWRP1XMQ3Z43	0380775301	433672969	Wind Blows Backward	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pretty good.	Lately these days it seems I've outgrown Mary Downing Hahn -- I loved her books when I was ten but they seem too young for me now. However this book is an exception, possibly because the two main characters are 17 and 18.<br />  All the characters are well-drawn. Spencer's depression is very realistic; I've been down that dark path before, and I know how he feels, though I don't know anybody who's committed suicide. I was on the edge of my seat towards the end, after he crashed his motorcycle, hoping desperately that he would live. I like poetry too; I understand Spencer's and Lauren's affection for it. All and all a good book, suitable perhaps for 13 and up.	2001-10-27
US	51029362	RPAGJ5B6T65UE	0440227518	65562579	The Killer's Cousin	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful characters	This is one of my favorite books in the world (though I haven't seen it in about four months cause I lent it to a so-called &quot;friend&quot; who promises to return it &quot;any day now&quot;, argh). The thing I like best is the characters. David was so real to me, afraid of himself, lonely, guilty. Frank was probably my favorite character in the book. He reminds me of certain friends of mine. At first I really disliked Lily -- she seemed like a demon-child -- but after I realized what had happened I felt sorry for her. The only part of the book that I didn't like was Kathy's ghost. I didn't think that belonged in an otherwise realistic story, though it was through Kathy that David realized what Lily had done. All in all, a great book which I'd recommend to anyone who likes suspense novels.	2001-10-23
US	51029362	RFB6OYC098JSK	012705040X	925977384	Criminal Profiling: An Introduction to Behavioral Evidence Analysis	Books	5	13	23	N	N	Informative yet entertaining.	This book tells the reader a lot about all the aspects of criminal profiling. It reads almost like an encyclopedia. Interesting (though gory) pictures. Not only is it informative, it is also fun to read. Many such books have a really dry, boring tone to them but this one has a definite voice. I liked the author's note at the beginning, though I'm not sure what his girlfriend's horridly abusive family had to do with the book. I also liked the case studies in the end: West Memphis Three, JonBenet Ramsey, Kristin and Kati Lisk etc.	2001-10-18
US	51029362	R7GUDD6U1DECS	0385729626	123717448	The Rag and Bone Shop	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The last book	How I wish Robert Cormier was alive right now so I could call him up and tell him exactly what I thought of this wonderful book. It was pretty obvious to me from the beginning who committed the crime. The question was: would Jason confess? When I heard about this book I figured it would be some combination of the elements of Cormier's previous books &quot;Tenderness&quot; and &quot;I am the Cheese&quot;. Trent is not like Brint, but in the end they acted very much the same. And Jason is no Eric Poole...until the end. I read the second-to-last chapter and thought, &quot;Whew.&quot; Then I read the final pages and I was like &quot;Oh my god...&quot; This book is like the grand finale at the end of a fireworks show. Good work, Robert!	2001-10-17
US	51029362	R38YMP0H408MCN	015626224X	789289309	Down and Out in Paris and London	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Plotless, but funny at times.	Much lighter in tone than 1984 and Animal Farm, the book mainly consists of the unnamed protagonist scrounging for money in Paris and London. For awhile he worked as a dishwasher in a Parisian restaurant, 17 hours a day, and he wrote of the extraordinary filth in the serving quarters. It didn't matter whether or not the food was sanitary, as long as it looked good. He mentioned, for instance, a waiter who dropped a roast chicken down the shaft and it landed three floors below in a pile of rubbish, then was wiped and sent up again. And that was a GOOD restaurant. Wait till he started working in a bad one! The protagonist went on a rather preachy tangent toward the end about British tramps. He knew what he was talking about, seeing as he lived on the streets for a couple of weeks in London awaiting a job. All in all, a very good book. It will make you laugh a few times, which is more than can be said about 1984.	2001-10-17
US	51029362	R3BKO40UA339SK	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious.	This book was given me as a birthday gift. I'd never read a Kurt Vonnegut book before but now I think I'm falling in love with him. While &quot;Breakfast of Champions&quot; had no plot, it was engaging and entertaining and I couldn't put it down. I loved the illustrations, particularly the vagina one.	2001-10-16
US	51029362	R2FR9NYXQNH9FR	0671868691	178377223	Bitter Harvest	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I can't help but feel a little sorry for Debora	I have read five Ann Rule books and I've liked them all. My favorite so far is &quot;Small Sacrifices&quot;. As for &quot;Bitter Harvest&quot;, my favorite character in that was Mike Farrar. The poor man with his ill health and dead children, struggling to keep together a marriage he should have given up on long ago. But I wonder if he is as innocent as Ann Rule makes him appear to be. I feel sorriest of all for Lissa, who is just a little older than me. But I also feel a little sorry for Debora. She seems to be seriously sick in the head. But she is very dangerous and she got what she deserved; nothing more than that.	2001-10-16
US	51029362	R37EHE9NSGKQGE	0312966326	950726668	Dying For Daddy: A True Story of Family Killer Jack Barron (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good, though not as good as Ann Rule	All in all a pretty good, engaging book. I felt so sorry for Irene and Roberta and the children and I really can't see how the police could fail to investigate when these healthy people died in that house, one after another. I think the author's suggestion that the deaths had something to do with Jack's father wears a little thin; I think it is more likely Munchausen's by proxy. I also believe it a bit unfair that the book would be published before Jack was brought to trial. I mean, he might be found innocent. All the same, good work.	2001-10-15
US	51029362	R1BWCLW0PSYASB	0312089015	799928793	Swift Justice: Murder & Vengeance In A California Town	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Vivid	I'm not ashamed to stay I stayed up all night reading this book. I thought I'd read a few chapters before bed and...well, I just couldn't put it down. Brooke's murder is particularly brutal -- I could hear his final calls for help inside my head. The description of the lynching is so vivid you feel as if you're there, shouting and manning the battering ram with the rest of them. My only complaint was that the &quot;after the lynching&quot; section seemed to drag a bit. All in all a wonderful book, which I would highly recommend to any fan of true crime.	2001-10-12
US	51029362	R2XFA8KZNYY1NG	0553569996	401194004	Stalemate: A Shocking True Story of Child Abduction and Murder	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I admired the author's objectivity.	Tim Bindner has not been charged in the abductions and probable murders of Amber Schwartz, Michaela Garecht and Nikki Campbell. I guess that's why the book was so objective. I admired the author for that -- never stating his own opinion, just putting down the facts and letting the reader decide whether or not Tim did it. My conclusion: probably, but you cannot say for sure. A very absorbing book, though in my humble opinion it paid too much attention to Amber and not enough to Nikki and Michaela.	2001-10-11
US	51029362	R3V9QKZLFRTOZJ	0152009787	91430143	Send Me Down a Miracle	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Funny and sad at the same time.	The whole point of the book, I guess, is that adults are fallible. That's the story: Charity realizing that. While I don't much like her father (he beats her) I guess I can see that Charity loves him, and he, her. As an atheist, I found it kind of amusing the way people prayed and flocked to the Jesus chair. Though the thing with Mad Joe and Vonnie and Velita was incredibly sad. While some of the characters seemed stereotyped -- Charity's dad the hell-raising Southern preacher, for instance -- I thought it was a really good book. Han Nolan's one of my favorite authors and I hope she keeps churning out works like this for decades to come.	2001-10-10
US	51029362	R1X8AMYBEXKRF0	0671025333	277781592	Empty Promises	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Excellent.	This is the third Ann Rule book I've read, and the first one that has more than one story in it. All of the stories focus on abusive men: men who beat their wives, who kill little children, etc. The story about that girl Robin I think was particularly horrifying. While I don't like this book as much as, say, &quot;Small Sacrifices&quot;, I do think it was well worth the money I paid for it and I highly recommend it to any true crime fan.	2001-10-10
US	51029362	R1ROGNCH4RUWYF	0486275426	262777759	The Devil's Dictionary (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The 19th century equivalent of the Onion	Caustic, but hilarious. I wouldn't recommend it to sensitive types, but I for one very much enjoyed it. Particularly the definition for Christian: &quot;One who believes the New Testament is a divinely inspired book admirably suitd to the spiritual needs of his neighbor. One who follows the teachings of Christ in so far as they are not inconsistent with a life of sin.&quot; (I am an atheist; I think Ambrose was too.) Oh yeah: this book makes EXCELLENT bathroom reading.	2001-10-09
US	51029362	R1MUWT7LYLZOWL	0803726058	835627443	Black Mirror	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Good, though I liked her other books better.	The best thing about this book, I think, is the characters. They were very well developed. Frances, who is so solemn and depressed. James, her love object, who isn't who he seems. Saskia, the cold and scheming little witch. Andy, retarded but very gentle. Etc. While in general it wasn't as well executed as &quot;Locked Inside&quot; and &quot;The Killer's Cousin&quot; and &quot;Are You Alone&quot; I liked it a lot. I started reading it in a bus station and went kind of in a trance, forgetting the heat and the noise and exhaust. After I was finished I thought about it for a long time. Like, I still can't make up my mind about Saskia; whether what she did was good or bad. Or James for that matter, and what he thought about Frances. All in all: yet another wonderful book from Nancy; I can't wait to read the next one!	2001-10-09
US	51029362	RU78K4PS4YL7C	0786709405	50589434	Suicide and Attempted Suicide	Books	5	17	25	N	N	One of the most engaging books I've read.	This is a really neat book. Well-researched, informative, often funny. Many such books have a very dry tone, but not this one. I read it more-or-less continuously for a whole day to finish it. I love the footnotes. I think it might be dangerous in the hands of a suicidal person, since it tells all about how to do yourself in, but it's good for someone like me who's only interested in the theory.	2001-10-05
US	51029362	RBV3ZIAJHQJSU	0919001696	992917410	Anna Leonowens: A Life Beyond "the King and I"	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Fairly good book.	I would have expected such a book to be very dry, but much to my pleasant surprise it was interesting. Ms. Dow did a good job looking through Anna's sensationalized accounts of her life to find the real truth. I liked the enclosed photos of Anna and her family, and Prince Chulalongkorn. A very good biography this was.	2001-10-01
US	51029362	R27TMZCELV1Y6Q	0446608270	367594357	The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer	Books	2	8	9	N	N	The author is a narcissist.	The introduction of the book, written by the psychologist, talks about what a great guy Jason Moss is. In the body of the book, Jason goes on and on about how smart he is, how great his grades are, how good he is at wrestling, baseball etc. The book was much more about him and his achievements than it was about Gacy and Ramirez, and it certainly didn't give me any insights into the serial killers. I have been to Jason's website, and it also talks about how wonderful he is at everything he tries. After awhile it gets old.	2001-10-01
US	51029362	R1GYGS2FCP7QRZ	0312267576	383103929	Baby Names Now: From Classic to Cool--The Very Last Word on First Names	Books	3	9	11	N	N	They could have just revised &quot;Last Word on First Names&quot;.	This book is a good update on &quot;Last Word on First Names&quot;, and that is ALL it is. I don't think they should have released it as a whole new book. I mean, there are a few new names but they are wild and crazy and nobody would use them. Like &quot;Trout&quot; is listed. I mean, come on!	2001-09-30
US	51029362	R2MXZ8U3QIXZD9	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Funny...but fluffy.	Okay, I liked the book. I liked it very much. It was very funny and Mia had a distinct voice. However, it was fluffy. And fluffy is a BAD adjective for me to use for a book.<br />  As a previous reviewer said, Mia is just like every other teenaged girl in the world except she happens to be a princess. She has a mother and a father and a best friend. She hates her hair. She hates her body. She worries about the size of her breasts. She has a massive crush on a popular guy who doesn't know she's alive.<br />  If it wasn't for the princess thing (and it wasn't realistic; how could Mia have known her father 14 years and not figured it out?) this novel would be just another fluffy adolescent-angst story with nothing distinctive about it.<br />  Which isn't to say I didn't like the book. I did, and I will watch the movie and probably read the sequel too.	2001-09-18
US	51029362	RQD9L72XECQET	0152019162	259156728	Born Blue	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Even better than Dancing On The Edge	I thought no way any of Han Nolan's books could be better than her book &quot;Dancing on the Edge&quot; but I guess I was wrong. &quot;Born Blue&quot; was one of the best books I've ever read. I particularly like the way it was told in blackspeak. It made me feel as if I could hear Leshaya talking. I'm glad she made the decision in the end to leave Etta alone. Who knows, maybe she'll come back to Harmon someday.	2001-09-17
US	51029362	R3IL25CVV5GLHH	0689838581	680149957	Fever 1793 (Seeds of America Trilogy)	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	I liked it, though not as much as &quot;Speak&quot;.	&quot;Fever 1793&quot; is about a fourteen-year-old girl named Mattie who lives in Philadelphia in, you guessed it, 1793. She and her mom and grandfather run a coffeehouse. Mattie starts out as a pretty ordinary girl, but then the yellow fever epidemic strikes and thousands become ill. Mattie gets sick, but survives. Her mother disappears. In running the coffeehouse by herself, and tending to the sick and dying, Mattie grows up in just a few months to become a right proper responsible young woman.  I actually liked the beginning best. Mattie's voice was quite sardonic. &quot;By the time they had me tightened, pinned, and locked into my clothes, I could feel my stomach rubbing against my backbone.&quot; The book was funny and sad at the same time. I hope Ms. Anderson continues to write novels as good as this!	2001-08-27
US	51029362	R2W5I8HZML1PRY	0689836015	835820403	Silent To The Bone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Well worth reading.	While it was clear from the beginning that Branwell did not hurt the baby and that Vivian had been screwing with him, I wanted to find out exactly what and why. The book was like a puzzle, each chapter being a piece you had to fit together. Wonderfully suspenseful, perfect for curling up in a chair with on a chilly foggy day. Connor was the best friend a person could ask for. Both he and Branwell seemed very intelligent. Connor's sister Margaret was my favorite character. Vivian was a snake. The only thing I wished I could change about the book would be making her go to trial for hurting Nikki instead of just losing her job.	2001-08-25
US	51029362	R3NX3N73SEY5V6	0062730983	204854907	Cartoon History of the United States (Cartoon Guide Series)	Books	5	37	47	N	Y	Hilarious, and accurate.	This is the kind of book to read if you really hate history but need to know it for school or something. It makes history fun, not just boring names and dates. I read it late at night, which displeased my family because I laughed so hard I woke them all up. I bought another copy of this book as a gift to my college history professor. He read it and commented, &quot;It was very well-researched. I bet writing the cartoons was the easy part.&quot;	2001-08-18
US	51029362	RQQBX726RAV33	067101448X	667665903	Fiend: The Shocking True Story Of America's Youngest Serial Killer	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Chilling.	It's nice to know that youthful murderers are not just a recent phenomenon. Jesse Pomeroy makes Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold seem like choirboys. Since Jesse was only fourteen, the governor commuted his sentence from death to life in solitary without parole. Doesn't sound like much of a commutation, does it? Harold Schechter's descriptions of Jesse's crimes were haunting. I particularly liked the last two sections -- Jesse's letters to Willie Baxter, and the account of his life in prison and many escape attempts. (Not that I blame him for trying.) I like learning about lesser-known murderers instead of everything Ted Bundy all the time. Yet another good book from Harold Schechter!	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R24BTTJFSO802R	0152164561	29347266	Mary, Bloody Mary	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	The narration was rather flat.	While it's nice to hear about Mary Tudor's childhood -- everyone knows about Elizabeth's already -- I can't say I liked this book all that much. The problem for me was the voice. Mary just seemed to be recounting all her trials and tribulations in a flat, matter-of-fact manner. It was like reading a newspaper. I would rather she have shown more emotion.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R2BVDP6C1MRMED	0439049946	6480475	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Sean Sullivan, A Transcontinental Railroad Worker	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very entertaining.	The book was really interesting. Sean Sullivan like everyone else had to start as a water boy and work his way up: he worked as a butcher, then he shot rattlesnakes, then he laid down the rails, then finally he became a spiker. This way the reader could see what it was like to work at each job. Sean wrote in detail, but not so much as to be unrealistic. I liked the letters he got from his brother in Chicago as well.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	RTNX1ZEH5XFSA	0345407865	661421702	The Children of Henry VIII	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Highly accurate, but rather dull in places.	I found this to be a very accurate book -- good, solid history -- but occasionally boring. I would have liked to know more about Mary and Edward themselves, not just the way they ruled England. The first few pages were full of personal details, saying things like Mary as an adult was so innocent and naive that she didn't know any swear words. I wish there had been more such tidbits throughout the book.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	RQ828M0BXN2RI	0590313509	341322859	My Name Is America: The Journal Of William Thomas Emerson, A Revolutionary War Patriot	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A fairly good book.	In this story Will helps with the revolution by spying and assisting deserters from the British army etc. But I was more interested in the everyday life of running a tavern. I really liked Will's dog Queen George. I own a Newfoundland myself, and I know how rambunctious they can be. All in all it was a good story. A few things I noticed though: It says that Will's name is William Thomas Emerson, but people didn't usually have middle names till the 1800s. Also, after Will's friend Henry was beaten to death by British soldiers Will hardly seemed to care. He recorded Henry's funeral in a rather cool objective manner and hardly mentioned Henry after that. It doesn't seem right, which is why I gave the story four stars instead of five.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R3DLQGZBROKUI6	0671025449	502388049	Depraved	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Not the first by far, but still a good one.	When I first read this book, I didn't like it all that much. But I read it again and liked it much more after that. H. H. Holmes isn't really my kind of serial killer -- I prefer ones who torture etc -- and he isn't America's first serial killer, but he sure is interesting. Nobody, not even Harold Schechter, knows how many victims there were. I almost cried when I read about the plight of the Pitezel children, bored half to death and separated from their mama in the final months of their life. Holmes was a depraved monster for sure. I have liked all of Harold Schechter's books and hope I'll like the next one and the next and the next...	2001-08-09
US	51029362	RQODCC6PLE15M	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Darkly funny -- one of the best YA books I've read.	This is definately one of the best books I've ever read. Melinda's voice was caustic at times, but very funny. Like she was whistling in the dark. I liked the parts about the school mascot. I think David Pedrakis was my favorite character, and Andy was obviously my least favorite. I could see and feel Melinda's trauma and pain. I'm homeschooled, but I have friends that go to high school and from what they say the book's descriptions of the high school classes and cliques seemed pretty accurate. I hope to buy more of Laurie Halse Anderson's books soon; they'll probably be just as good or better than this one!	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R1GXO201ECFUKH	0590386077	393635890	The Journal of Wong Ming-Chung: A Chinese Miner, California, 1852 (My Name is America)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tis lovely.	I really liked this diary; I thought it was the best in the series. Runt could have been any moderately bright eleven-year-old kid, though he was rather liberal, making friends of all nationalities. I can't say I was very fond of Runt's brother Blessing, but Runt's uncle was a really nice guy and the Fox was quite cleve. The diary told a very entertaining story. I'm glad Runt decided to stay in America instead of returning to China for good!	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R3TJZ3QLWCF5Q4	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Overrated.	I kept hearing for years about what a wonderful book this was. But when I finally bought it I was sorely disappointed. It's not a terrible book, or even a mediocre book, just sort of average. It didn't live up to the hype. Worth reading but not worth buying. If you really want this book, I suggest you get it from a library.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R3JWA3WTKHLEKT	0671025457	474805220	Deranged: The Shocking True Story of America's Most Fiendish Killer!	Books	5	55	64	N	Y	The stuff to haunt dreams.	It's kind of sad that hardly anybody knows (or cares) about Albert Fish anymore. In my opinion he's much more interesting than Ted Bundy, John Wayne Gacy, etc. I agree with the jury's verdict: Albert Fish was insane but he deserved to die anyway. Harold Schechter's descriptions of not only Fish's crimes but also the things that he did to himself -- sticking needles up his groin, whipping himself etc -- turned my stomach. It was all so incongruous, as Fish looked like everybody's grandfather. Yet another insightful, entertaining book from Harold Schechter.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	R3QPY4TLQCCXN3	0439112109	110762536	Nzingha: Warrior Queen of Matamba, Angola, Africa, 1595	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Too short. Not historically accurate.	While it was interesting to hear about ancient African royalty (I bet most people don't know that Africa HAD a royalty!), this book I don't think was all that great. For one thing, it was too short. Only about 80 pages, and it ended abruptly. Another thing: it wasn't all that historically accurate. Many of the characters were fictional. And it says in the back that the events described in the diary -- Nzingha going to Luanda and using a servant for a chair -- happened when she was 40 years old, not 13. This is my least favorite of the Royal Diaries series because of those things.	2001-08-09
US	51029362	RH3QTPT954OFW	0439129095	170402071	Kaiulani: The People's Princess, Hawaii, 1889	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Couldn't finish it.	I thought the Nzingha diary was awful, but at least I finished it. (Though I may not have if it hadn't been so short.) This diary on the other hand I didn't get through. About one third of the way through the book I became incredibly bored and couldn't bring myself to waste any more of my time reading it. I will give it two stars though because it features Hawaiian royalty. I bet most people don't know Hawaii ever had a royal family.	2001-08-08
US	51029362	R2KUD0CYQS1R79	0439053862	111344379	A Coal Miner's Bride: the Diary of Anetka Kaminska (Dear America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best book in the series	I have read 17 of the Dear America books and in my opinion, the Anetka Kaminska one was the best. It's strange to think of marrying at 13, seeing as how nowadays people wait till their twenties to get married. Anetka had to work like a slave to take care of stepchildren not much younger than herself and please her sour-tempered husband. I wondered how such a diary would treat the sexual aspect of marriage since it was meant for children. I think the author handled it well. I loved Leon. Even as Anetka denied liking him, it was painfully obvious that she was madly in love with him. I'm glad they finally got together.	2001-08-08
US	51029362	R140XPWT75X5F5	0590228625	865753481	When Will This Cruel War Be Over?: The Civil War Diary of Emma Simpson, Gordonsville, Virginia, 1864 (Dear America Series)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Padded.	The book is not that thick to begin with, and I think the author &quot;padded&quot; it to meet page count. There are many one-sentence entries. Example: &quot;The weather is quite warm today.&quot; I also noticed that in certain parts, there are huge spaces between where one entry ends and the next begins -- as much as half a page.  Also, the voice that narrarated the book was very stiff and formal. I don't know if all Southern aristocrats talked that way, but it bothered me. &quot;I must confess that at times I simply wish Cousin Rachel would conduct herself in a more appealing fashion.&quot;  Another thing I disliked was Emma's constant references to the books she was reading. Jane Eyre, Wuthering Heights, etc. It was irritating because I'd never read those books and I don't intend to anytime soon.  I do however give the book two stars because one rarely sees a Civil War story told from POV of the Southern gentry.	2001-08-05
US	51029362	ROASQ5DH0Q7LN	0064407314	610990578	Monster	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Wonderful!	The screenplay format was really unique. I could just see the movie in my head. I think the ending was realistic too -- if I were a juror I wouldn't have been convinced Steve was innocent, but I would have found &quot;reasonable doubt&quot;. He was a ghetto child with a future -- and luckily he still is.	2001-08-04
US	51029362	R3JPGLEN5GPHWG	0393050297	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: The Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	She really did show the &quot;whole man&quot;.	Before reading this book, I hadn't really thought of Ted Bundy as anything more than a monster, a diabolical murderer of innocent girls. But Ann Rule made me see him as a real person, just like you and me -- one whom I might have liked (though, admittedly, my hair is short and parted on the side).	2001-07-29
US	51029362	R2PK0TCBW2K789	0141302038	124576044	Dancing on the Edge	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Wonderful!	Miracle McCloy got her name when she was born from the body of a dead woman and she hears the story all the time. But after her father's disappearance the story begins to bother her. As her granddaddy said, &quot;If your mama was dead when you was born, then you was never born.&quot; Miracle becomes convinced that she doesn't exist, or shouldn't exist, and sets herself on fire to make sure she's real. The real story begins there.  I loved the book. Told through the eyes of a young girl with astute observations and average intelligence, it's a compelling story. I'm not sure how I feel about Miracle's father. He abandoned her as easily as his cast-off bathrobe, but I can't bring myself to hate him. Perhaps because Miracle doesn't.  On the whole, a great book. Very depressing though. Parts of it made me cry.	2001-07-04
US	51029362	RNA63ECQNH4WG	0786010630	799488921	Cruel Sacrifice	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Sensational...but entertaining.	I must admit that the book is an accurate account of Shanda Sharer's kidnapping and murder, and the events leading up to it. It's extremely sensational though -- did Ms. Jones REALLY have to include Shanda's autopsy photos? Of course, the whole lesbian love triangle thing was made for sensation. And at least it's entertaining. I read it in one sitting.  I recommend Michael Quinlan's book if you're looking for an account of the murder but want less violence and sex.	2001-06-28
US	51029362	R331LG8Z6R65I3	0380789825	472015244	Greatest Baby Name Book Ever, The	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lots of names, but rather inaccurate	As a writer of short stories I am always in need of character names which is why I bought this baby book. I find it has a huge amount of names -- from Ashley to Zara, Aaron to Zachary -- but some of the information is  inaccurate and that bothers me. For instant, Elliott is not a very popular  name as the author of this book would lead you to believe, and Blair is  used much more often for girls than boys. So if you're looking for quantity  you have it, but if you're looking for quality search elsewhere.	2000-06-15
US	51029362	R19GVCO4WP2XOC	0590298356	24405246	Dawn (California Diaries, No. 1)	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Well, one point for trying	I don't feel like writing reviews for every single California Diaries book, so I'll just write some stuff here at the first one:<br />1. Ann M. Martin is TRYING to write a decent young adult book and I give credit for that. Those Baby-Sitters Club books are horrible -- perfect girls with  perfect familes in a perfect town leading perfect lives. The California  Diaries are better. At least good enough to keep me reading.<br />2. Dawn  should not have been so shocked to see drinking and smoking at that party.  Living in urban California, she ought to know that high-schoolers drink and  smoke. I am 14, I have been drunk before, I have smoked, I have even used  recreational drugs. And I live in rural Ohio.<br />3. It would help if she  actually mentioned sex. Yes, thirteen-year-old girls have sex! I am 14 and  still a virgin, but if my boyfriend and I had so chosen we could be lovers  now. We decided to wait. But I bet Sunny has lost her virginity by now,  with all those boyfriends. And probably Ducky too -- many sixteen-year-old  boys have had sex. And what about Amalia, hasn't she ever made out on  James's couch?<br />4. More swear words would help too. Occasionally Ms.  Martin writes &quot;hell&quot;, but that's the extent of it. Most teenagers  swear, and swear frequently.<br />  There. That's all I have to say. At least  she's trying, aye?	2000-05-19
US	51029362	R1TIBU213RSD9P	0590485318	180453466	The Journal of Ben Uchida: Citizen 13559, Mirror Lake Internment Camp	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilarious, but sad at the same time	I have been reading all the books in the American diary series; this is I think the sixth one I've read. Ben's sense of humor is wonderful -- I woke my parents from their naps laughing so loud. The book is well written but also very sad, a story about a blot on the parchment of United States history. The only thing I didn't like was the ending, or lack thereof. It was as if the last pages diary had been simply ripped out, leaving a very inconclusive ending.	1999-12-26
US	51029362	R18L7MKG6AIQHT	0440208823	540066577	Now and at the Hour	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	A realistic story about one man's journey towards death	I've read all of Robert Cormier's young adult books, but I didn't know what to expect of this, one of his few books written for the adult audience. It was pretty well-written, I guess. Alph LeBlanc is dying of  lung cancer. He knows and his family knows, but they are in denial; trying  to hide it from each other. Alph is in his late fifties and has a wife and  some grown children. The book covered a lot of stuff: his love for his  kids, the tragic death of his three-year-old daughter, his feelings towards  his family in general, memories of his life. It was pretty gloomy, but I  guess that's to be expected -- I mean, the book was about death and dying.  All in all a good book, though I prefer his young adult ones.	1999-12-26
US	51029362	R1PS0L25WJ8934	0590684841	416913226	Elizabeth I: Red Rose of the House of Tudor, England, 1544 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Pretty good	I discovered the book while waiting in a store for my mother. Unable to buy it, I read the whole book in the store. (My mother took a long time and  I read very fast.) It's a good work in my opinion, good character  development. I liked Elizabeth and Robin very much. However Elizabeth  hardly seemed like a child sometimes. She wrote like an adult. I know when  I was eleven or twelve and an aspiring writer, I did not write that well.	1999-10-30
US	51029362	RFIJEIIESCX5D	0425119653	667355645	Mutation	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Jesus...	I picked up the book two weeks ago while waiting in my mother's car, bored out of my mind, while she visited with my big brother. It was my mom's  book. Out of boredom I picked it up and skimmed a few pages, then I was  hooked. I finished the book the next day and was very happy with it. Very  suspenseful!	1999-10-27
US	51029362	R2MZGQXESVMEDK	0385327048	572122687	Frenchtown Summer	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Poetry in motion	The book was a quick read -- less than half an hour. But one read is not enough -- I had to read it again and again, four times in fact, and I'm satisfied -- for the moment. Some of the lines in the poems are enchanting  (&quot;when I knew my name/but did not know who I was.&quot; &quot;and knew  bliss/in a sliver/of ice), and you must read them again. They flow, fluid,  like a river, the Moosock River which ran red and green and purple  depending on the dyes the factories were using that day... It's a lovely  nostalgic book, showing a time I'll never experience, and yet there are  some dark undertones too: Marielle LaMoyne, found strangled by a necktie  years before Eugene was born...the near-suicide of one of Eugene's  neighbors and the actual suicide of a relative... Naturally, of course, you  can't have a Robert Cormier book without them. Tis lovely. Go away if you  haven't read the book and buy it, NOW!	1999-09-27
US	51029362	R30UFHVH87SX1E	0789401495	323217643	Encyclopedia of the Dog	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Essential for every dog owner	My mother and I love dogs and are able to identify most breeds by sight. Naturally, we loved this book. Not only does it provide information on many, many breeds, but it has at least two pictures of every kind of dog.  From the popular Golden Retriever and Poodle to the extremely rare Chinook  and Danish Chicken Dog, this book has a lot of information. I especially  liked that it gave favorable descriptions of the Newfoundland and St.  Bernard. I own one of each.	1999-08-29
US	51029362	R3DO7OZ7NNG8AV	0440207290	925672149	Don't Look Behind You	Books	1	4	10	N	N	Didn't like it at all.	I wish I hadn't read this book, it was terrible. The narrative is first person past tense, so you know April survived. I think the whole witness thing was unrealistic, and so was the scene where April's trapped in the  house with the hit man. The ending was predictable and not exciting at all.  All April seems to think about are boys and tennis. Please, don't read this  book. It just isn't worth it.	1999-08-13
US	51029362	R379ELSY4IC28A	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Awesome, but...	I read this book about a year ago. I found it while browsing in a bookstore and picked it up because the title intrigued me. A few pages later I was hooked. My mom wouldn't buy it for me, so I sat in the store  and read the whole thing in about two hours. I've read the sequel too.  The title was great, and the book was wonderful. Poor David. His  descriptions of his mother's abuse made my stomach turn. I wish there had  been more emotion in it though. It seemed very matter-of-fact. Not that  that's a bad thing, but I like really emotional books.	1999-08-05
US	51029362	R2NXHEGRWTPBN3	014032206X	409560379	I Was There	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Didn't particularly like it.	I'll have to admit, 'I was There' told a good story. I've always wondered about the German people during World War II. But I gave it two stars cause I didn't like the way it was written. The flow was jerky and the paragraphs  were way too short. There was almost nothing about how the narrator felt,  only description of his actions. The whole book went by too fast. I didn't  like the protagonist not having a name, either.	1999-04-03
