US	51020079	RTP4U2UTGQE4K	0198752482	183650094	An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding (Oxford Philosophical Texts)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The temporary death of a priori	Before the Epiricist philosophers came along, it was generally accepted that there were certain things that humans merely knew facts to be true. Basic philosophical concepts were reasoned to be true by a priori reasoning. Thus, complex metaphysical ideas were formed by inductive logic, working off what was assumed to be true. Then Hume came along and destroyed more than two thousand years of metaphysics. Hume showed that everything we know can be broken down in to two categories: Relations of Ideas and Matters of Fact. Relations of Ideas are things that a true by defintion. 2+2 will always equal 4, because that is how it is defined. Try as we might, we can never successfully imagine 2+2 equalling 5. So relations of facts do not really tell us anything about the natural world. They are definitions we use to describe what is happening. Matters of fact, on the other hand, are ideas we have that arise from our experience with the world, such as \\"The Sun will rise tomorrow morning.\\" Unlike with Relations of Ideas, Matters of Fact are not true my their defintition. We can imagine successfully \\"The Sun will not rise tomorrow.\\" How, then, if we can imagine the supposed impossible, do we know anything to be truly impossible? Hume creates the basis for philosophical skepticism in this enquiry. He effectively show us that we can never know anything to be absolutely true. It wasn't until Kant's Critique of Pure Reason that philosophy recovered from the blow of Hume's metaphysics. This is a seminal text in the history of metaphysical and epistimilogical work and should be read by any and all philosophers.	2003-03-12
US	51020079	R1I6P4GCGEOMWW	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Is moral responsibility important if you have no morality?	Kenzaburo Oe was born in 1935, and so he lived through World War II as a child in Imperialist Japan. This puts him in a position that few Americans can truly understand. For 10 years, he was taught that the Emperor was God, and the gloy of the Empire was all that mattered. And suddenly, in the flash of two Atomic bombs, that ended. The entire moral system that a generation of people were raised on collapsed. He is to accept the fine, Liberal values of the West, but on what foundation do they rest? In short, his generation was robbed of it's ethical heritage. The Emperor was human. The morality of the West can only be seen in the eyes of someone who witnessed the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Right and wrong never had any true meaning, and the post WWII generation had to search it out for itself. This ethical aimlessness manifests itself in Oe most important and widely read work, A Personal Matter. Bird, the Japanese everyman of the post-WWII generation, is the father of a new born infant who has a horrible birth defect. At great personal expense, he can allow the child to be operated upon, however, there is very little chance of success, and the child will most likely become severely retarded. Or else he can allow the child to starve on a diet of sugar water, under the doctor's watchful eyes. It is a moral question that a man without morality must answer. This leads Bird on a journey through terror and vice. In absence of any higher values to turn to, Bird finds solace in humiliating sex, booze, and dreams of escape to Africa. I really cannot stress how underrated this novel is in America. Frankly, I had never heard of it until I saw it at a used book store. Oe won the Nobel prize for Literature in 1994, an honor which is shamefully overlooked in America. A Personal Matter is an intensely powerful, philosophical journey that offers more to modern man bleak Nihilism. Oe, raised without morality, forced to discover the ethics of the world on his own, manages to provide use with a beautiful vision of hope for man.	2003-03-06
US	51020079	RSQSU529TYJCW	0767903692	332541339	The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching: Transforming Suffering into Peace, Joy, and Liberation	Books	5	101	110	N	N	Intelligent layman's introduction	This book is the cure to all those [] self-help type introductions to Buddhism you see these days. This is far from a scholalry book, only suited for dry academics, but at the same time, it doesn't pidgeon hole all of the Buddha's teachings into a few maxims for the Busy American to absorb on the way to the gym or work. I can't gaurantee that you'll become a Buddhist after reading this, or even have much desire to (I know I didn't), but I simply do not see how you can walk away from it without some insight into how you live your life. At the very least, this book will cause you to locate your own self-deprecating actions and stop them (without being new age-y, or full of [] pop psychology). At best, this will cause you to start your life along the middle path. More likely than not, though, you'll end up some where in the middle, like I did. I read this at a very hard point in my life, and I can tell you that it was one of the main reasons I was pulled out of that funk. It helped me to understand why we suffer, and how to escape the cycle of pain and humiliation. Highly Recommended.	2003-03-06
US	51020079	ROZSVQ5BGJX5F	019283407X	742669212	The Nicomachean Ethics (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Foundation of Western ethical thought	It seems rather foolish to 'review' Aristotle, THE Philosopher. Nothing in the Western intellectual tradition isn't touched by Aristotle's works. The Nichomachean Ethics, unlike say, the largely irrelevant Physics, or extremeley esoteric Metaphysics, is a very accessible. It's also the work that probably best sums up Aristotle's practical philosophy. To summerize in a way that is completely insulting to the work, Aristotle applies his idea of moderation, the Golden mean, to numerous ethical situatlions, in an attempt to discover what constitutes the Good life and the Good man. AS previous reviewers have said, there isn't a chapter of Aristotle that does not produce some revalation or insight. And with over 100 chapters...well, you get the idea. Anyway, in addition to providing a basis for understanding the very workings of ethics and morals in a timeless sense, reading Aristotle changes the way in which you think. Literally. He has a distinctive, ordered, logical philosophy that anyone who want to be taken seriously in argument needs to learn. Simply, this is only of the most important books ever written, and anyone, philosophy scholar or not, owes it to him or her self to read it.	2003-02-24
US	51020079	R31DMQX7PNDY1E	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The new American lit	I was pleasently suprised to find this novel. It's a collection of short stories loosely connected to the exploits of a company of soilders in 1968 in the jungles of Vietnam. Except it's not. It's really not a collection of short fictional stories, but a searing memoir of the events that haunt the real life Tim O'Brien. Except it's not. It's actually a fully fictional novel, using emotions and symbology to convey the political and personal horror of Vietnam. Except it's not. The truth is that The Things They carried is all of this and more. It's easy to (attempt to) pidgen hole this book into a perfect category, but the truth is, it's undefinable. It's seemingly a simple book, and the first few chapters will not have you believe that you are reading anything more than a simple war story. But in the end, the book's very structure causes us to question the very nature of truth itself. And the importance of it as well. I realize that I'm making this novel seem very complicated, but rest assured,Ulysses this is not. Anyone who wants to see where American Literature is going, needs to read this.	2003-02-24
US	51020079	R28SH4A10IX1ZW	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Still relevant today	What can be said about Tolstoy that hasn't been said thousands of times before? Well, nothing really. This novel is consistently called one of the greatest novels wver written, and that is certainly true. In Anna Karenina, Tolstoy creates a story that is both epic and personal. It touches on every human emotion, covering it all, from happiness to dispair. Using the foils of Anna and Levin, Tolstoy is critiquing both his strict aristocratic world, and humanity in general. Anna is a strong woman who can not come to terms with the society she is forced to accept; Levin is a man who has rejected society and it's conventionalities to strive to creates a new way of living, free from the interference of Government and Church. Through this compaison, Toltsoy shows how he believes we should live our lives. Anyway, you should really read it yourself. Think of it as a work out before the marathon of War and Peace, which you simply HAVE to read to be a truly literate person in this world. Happy reading.	2003-02-17
US	51020079	R1WCDZD7PK0GD2	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The evil of man	I'm not sure how to feel about this book. While reading it, I really could not become absorbed by Conrad's dense prose, though, while occasionaly eloquent, is very thick, and, well, British. But now that I am finished with it, I can not get the images the novella invokes out of my head. The conquest of Africa by the Imperialist on the surface, and the corruption of man's very morality underneath. The story is deceptively simple, merely a man working for an Ivory trading company, ominously called \\"The Company\\", going up the Congo river to meet up with Kurtz, the archetype of Western Imperialism. During this trip, we are shown the inner workings of man and his heart of darkness. The novella is not perfect though. Conrad's condemnation of Imperialism is uneven. Yes, the only discernable cause of Kurtz's descent into evil and madness is the imperialist ethic of master-slave, and it is fairly clear that Marlowe (conrad) is condemning that ethic, but at the same time, he doesn't work very hard to elevate the view of the African natives any higher in the esteem of his western readers. Anyway, as the novella is only about 100 pages, it is something that can be read in a day. Invest an afternoon in it, and decide for yourself.	2003-02-10
US	51020079	RA4LNM323DVDY	0472065211	958482831	Simulacra and Simulation (The Body, In Theory: Histories of Cultural Materialism)	Books	4	44	55	N	N	Revolutionary philosophy. But what's the point?	Everything you have heard about this book is true. It is dense, complicated, annoyingly analytical, and fairly pointless. Yet it's also genius. To preface...Continental philosophy, in the past hundred years or so, has not been known for it's practical applications. Existentialism and Postmodernism are mental games for the Ivory Tower intellectual, sure. But that doesn't mean that they do not provide a model for looking at and thinking about the world that the average intellect can relate to and use. And this book is no exception to that. It IS dificult to understand, yes, but no where near as bad as most people in these reviews seem to think. Anyone with a basic understanding of Objectivism v. Subjectism, Platonism, and the empirical philosphers can get plenty out of it. The vocabulary is no worse then most other philosophy, and a lot less complicated then some (this isn't Kant). Baisically, Baudrillard shows us that reality no longer exists, and has been replaced by simulacra via the process of simulation, creatin what he calls the &quot;hyperreal&quot;. It is a very enlightening read, and will make you really rethink how you view the world. The major problem with the book, as at least one other person has pointed out, is Baudrillard's cultural references. They are quite dated by this point, and you'll find yourself completely lost as to his point, since you can't relate to his subject. In the end though, it is a book that anyone interested in contemporary philosophy should read.	2003-02-10
US	51020079	RPT56ZILATPIG	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good, but...	I'm not sure how to feel about this book. While reading it, I really could not become absorbed by Conrad's dense prose, though, while occasionaly eloquent, is very thick, and, well, British. But now that I am finished with it, I can not get the images the novella invokes out of my head. The conquest of Africa by the Imperialist on the surface, and the corruption of man's very morality underneath. The story is deceptively simple, merely a man working for an Ivory trading company, ominously called \\"The Company\\", going up the Congo river to meet up with Kurtz, the archetype of Western Imperialism. During this trip, we are shown the inner workings of man and his heart of darkness. The novella is not perfect though. Conrad's condemnation of Imperialism is uneven. Yes, the only discernable cause of Kurtz's descent into evil and madness is the imperialist ethic of master-slave, and it is fairly clear that Marlowe (conrad) is condemning that ethic, but at the same time, he doesn't work very hard to elevate the view of the African natives any higher in the esteem of his western readers. Anyway, as the novella is only about 100 pages, it is something that can be read in a day. Invest an afternoon in it, and decide for yourself.	2003-02-03
US	51020079	RBBD0VBT8LG85	0472065211	958482831	Simulacra and Simulation (The Body, In Theory: Histories of Cultural Materialism)	Books	5	83	108	N	N	Pointless? Sure. But enlightening still.	Everything you have heard about this book is true. It is dense, complicated, annoyingly analytical, and fairly pointless. Yet it's also genius. To preface...Continental philosophy, in the past hundred years or so, has not been known for it's practical applications. Existentialism and Postmodernism are mental games for the Ivory Tower intellectual, sure. But that doesn't mean that they do not provide a model for looking at and thinking about the world that the average intellect can relate to and use. And this book is no exception to that. It IS dificult to understand, yes, but no where near as bad as most people in these reviews seem to think. Anyone with a basic understanding of Objectivism v. Subjectism, Platonism, and the empirical philosphers can get plenty out of it. The vocabulary is no worse then most other philosophy, and a lot less complicated then some (this isn't Kant). Baisically, Baudrillard shows us that reality no longer exists, and has been replaced by simulacra via the process of simulation, creatin what he calls the &quot;hyperreal&quot;. It is a very enlightening read, and will make you really rethink how you view the world. The major problem with the book, as at least one other person has pointed out, is Baudrillard's cultural references. They are quite dated by this point, and you'll find yourself completely lost as to his point, since you can't relate to his subject. In the end though, it is a book that anyone interested in contemporary philosophy should read.	2003-02-01
US	51020079	R3SDKITMVBF9KD	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Greatest English writer's Greatest novel	My first experience with Dickens was in 9th grade, when I was forced to read Great Expectations. I remember the experience as painful and ardous. But after reading A Tale of Two Cities, I realize that my opinion must have been influenced by excessive pouting. There is simply no way that a man who could write something one the level of A Tale of Two Cities could write something tedious. When people say that everything important can be found in this novel, they are not exagerrating. Love, tyranny, triumph over oppresion, the futility of the mob, and, most importantly, self-sacrafice. This is one of the greatest novels ever written, I don't hesitate to say so. Dickens has a singular ability to present an enveloping view of all humanity, all it's triumphs, struggles, and failings, and yet he can still produce characters who don't get lost in the sweep of the plot. In addition to this, Dickens (along with many others, such as Hugo, Dostoeysky, and Tolstoy) marks the transition from the &quot;listing&quot; style of writing (simple list of events written down) to the truly artistic novel. You'll find yourself rolling his words over your tounge, in awe of their brilliance. For your own sake, read it, read it again, and never forget it.	2003-01-30
US	51020079	R2QK8R0V6TBI57	0375706305	574735145	The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Not the Iran we all think we know...	Americans have a pretty bleak picutre of Iranian society fixed in their heads. And who can blame them? The turmoil after the shah's exile, the hostage crises, the war with Iraq, chadors, Salman Rushdie, and a many other similar problems in Iranian society do not exactly conform to American values. Well, that was then and this is now. Iran is changing. It has changed. The country that told it's people to go forth and multiply now requires classes on birth control before marriage. Vesectomys are given out free by the state. Even abortion is allowed in certain cases (health and monetary problems). The Catholics aren't even that progressive! Social change is gripping Iran. The new Generation of student protestors aren't capturing Americans, they are fighting against the conservative forces in their own government. They aren't calling for a second revolution or a return to the Shah's times. They want reform. And they are, alebit more slowly then most Americans would prefer, winning. Mohammad Khatami, president of Iran, won with 70% of the vote on a strong reformist platform. Wright's books is required reading for anyone who wants to understand this new Iran.	2003-01-26
US	51020079	R20DMD54B6284J	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not up to Irving's greatness	This novel had a lot of potential, really. It's a very original concept with a whole lot of room for social critique, something Irving is known for. But, in the end, it just sort of fizzed out. The character of Wallingford is never really developed beyond pre-hand surgery immoral egotist to post-hand surgery loving man. The change was too abrubt to be real, and that cause was not believable enough. I think Iriving is an author who works best with a large canvas. He said he wanted this novel to be short, romantic, and funny, and he succeded, to a point. Coming from, say, a 20-something just out of college, it would be an impressive first novel. But this is a later work by an established author, so I was expecting more. The writing style trys to be experimental, invoking the feeling of a newspaper ariticle, but it never really works. Instead, it just feels detached and overly analytical. I never felt like I really understood why any of the characters did what they did. This isn't to say that the novel was all bad though. It is a quick, entertaining read. You'll laugh out loud in a few parts. There's also a  few parts of astute criticism of the American sensationalist media. But it's just far to forgetable.	2002-12-18
US	51020079	R173CWPQW3U6OS	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not up to Irving's greatness	This novel had a lot of potential, really. It's a very original concept with a whole lot of room for social critique, something Irving is known for. But, in the end, it just sort of fizzed out. The character of Wallingford is never really developed beyond pre-hand surgery immoral egotist to post-hand surgery loving man. The change was too abrubt to be real, and that cause was not believable enough. I think Iriving is an author who works best with a large canvas. He said he wanted this novel to be short, romantic, and funny, and he succeded, to a point. Coming from, say, a 20-something just out of college, it would be an impressive first novel. But this is a later work by an established author, so I was expecting more. The writing style trys to be experimental, invoking the feeling of a newspaper ariticle, but it never really works. Instead, it just feels detached and overly analytical. I never felt like I really understood why any of the characters did what they did. This isn't to say that the novel was all bad though. It is a quick, entertaining read. You'll laugh out loud in a few parts. There's also a  few parts of astute criticism of the American sensationalist media. But it's just far to forgetable.	2002-12-18
US	51020079	R14PG6LUG4NPSU	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Staredown with the Postmodern World	This is a very solid collection of stories that 'fit' together very well. But for practical reasons, I'm just going to say a little bit about each rather then the book as a whole. The Wind Up Bird and Tuesday's Women- The reason I bought this book. It's obviously an early working of the first couple chapters of The Wind Up Bird Chronicle. It's very interesting to read, to see murakami's plans for his epic start to bud. And like that novel, it is an excellent piece of writing. \\"The Second Bakery Attack\\"- Great story that furthur elaborates on Murakami's view of the Absurd, which, needless to say is, well, more ABSURD than the absurd of Camus. I read somewhere that Murakami is picking up where Camus left off. I think this is a great view. Murakami is Camus if he had lived in the Postmodern era. \\"The Kangaroo Communique\\"- Vintage Murakami weirdness, with a touch of creepy love. \\"On Seeing the 100% Perfect Girl One Beautiful April Morning\\"- My personal favorite story in the collection, if you can even call it that. It's a beautfifully written piece on melacholy lost love to the circumstances of the world that none of us can see or control. Reminiscent of Sputnik Sweetheat, Norwegian Wood, and South of the Border, West of the Sun. \\"Sleep\\"- The most disappointing story. Not because it's bad. On the contrary, it's one of the best in the book. But it is crying out to be a novel. Like the first story, it seems quite possible to able to carry it out for a few hundred pages. Unfortunetly it ends with a quick, unsatisfying ending. \\"The Fall of the Roman Empire...etc\\"- Interesting. I'll just leave it at that.... \\"Lederhosen\\"- Intriguing little story dealing with individualism to the very group minded Japanese. \\"Barn Burning\\"- The most mysterious story in the book, about a writer who meets someone who claims to burn barns. \\"The Little Green Monster\\"- My least favorite story in the collection. Not up to Murakami's normal greatness. Interesting, if not anything original, is all I can say about it. \\"Family Affair\\"- Another great, personal story by Murakami about the obligation to mature. \\"A Window\\"- Forgetable, but enjoyable when reading. \\"Tv People\\" Scathing story about the insidousness of Television. \\"A Slow Boat to China\\"- A very interesting story about Chinese in Japan. I think, though, that only people with some grounding in Japanese culture would appreciate it. \\"The Dancing Dwarf\\"- Most likely the most insane story in the history of mankind. \\"The Last Lawn of the Afternoon\\"- Another story about the difficulty of love and human connections. \\"The Silence\\"- A wonderful story wherein Murakami defends the Everyman and laments the over achiever. \\"The Elephant Vanishes\\"- Good, but not great. Also forgetable.<br />All in all, this collection shows the whole breadth of Murkami's writing abilites, and is not something to be missed by any of his fans.	2002-12-14
US	51020079	RJBDX1AKFBRLX	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	4	5	5	N	N	In the defense of Man's morality in a world without God	Amazing novel, and one that needed to be written. Far to often are those without a god condemn as morally void. But Camus presents us a world where it is not a connection with God that produces moral responsibility, but, rather, the adandonment of man by God. Camus logically shows us that we are a moral animal because we need to be. We are faced with a universe of ultimate absurdity and infinite void. We have no being we can put our trust and faith in but our selves and our fellow man. I really can't stress how wonderful this novel is. It is what one should read after finishing Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment (which<br />is fantastic in it's own right, though I whole heartedly disagree with the philosophy behind it), to see the oposite, more logical, philosophy. Unfortunetly, I must dock off a star for Gilbert's translation, which reads more like Dickens then Camus at some points. In a perfect world Mathew Ward, the brillant translator of the vintage international version of The Stranger, would come out with a translation of the Plague. Oh well, C'est la vie...	2002-12-14
US	51020079	RL3V0HWSZVH4P	0674003128	296227913	Achieving Our Country : Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A New Old Left	This book is a most needed refreshment to the stagnation that is the current left. Though Rorty claims to belong to the 'old' or reformist left, rather then the new, identity based left, it is about as believable as his claims to not belong to the Postmodern set. No, instead of completely destroying the New Left, Rorty creates an imazing fusion of the identity politics of the new left, with the class based politics of the old. He manages to weed out the bad in both traditions, clearing the Old left of Marx, Lenin and Stalin, while at the same time bringing economic awareness and positivism to the increasingly pesimistic, overly theoretical New academic left. The prime focus of Rorty's lectures is the shift from what he terms the participatory Left, which was the reformist left that brought on the Progressive Era and the New Deal, to the Spectatorial left, which is the Current \\"new\\" left that bemoans the inequalities of the world but only spends its time theorizing about the problems rather than trying to find a solution. In doing this, he creates a view of a new reformist left that embraces the cultural and racial changes the New Left created. Though I do not agree with everything Rorty says, especially his views regarding the Cold War (he uses the word evil too freely for my tastes), he did manage to reinforce many views I already hold and open my eyes to many new ones.	2002-12-09
US	51020079	RXDL4NZ5867B2	0375726055	877497311	Sputnik Sweetheart: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Murakami hits new depths	I know many-a Murakami fan will disagree with me here, but I find this to be the most complex of all his works. Maybe complex isn't the right word. Enigmatic is better. I can talk for hours on all the other novels, but with this one...frankly I'm stumped. It deals with love and loss, that's clear, but I'm just entirely sure what he's trying to say about it in the end. It seems as if he's almost contradicting him self in a few places. Like the Sumire, Miu, &quot;K&quot; triangle. For a long time I thought that &quot;K&quot; and Miu were supposed to represent the two aspects of Sumire's personality that she was trying to reconcile...but the ending by no means supports it. And I'm still trying to figure out what exactly Carrot's place is in the whole scheme of things. A child version of &quot;K&quot;? Or of Sumire? Or a combination of both? Or something completely different, the result of misplaced love, maybe? This isn't all to say that I didn't like this novel. Quite the contrary in fact. It's great. There are moments of sheer brillance, and the writing, which is (like South of the Border, West of the Sun) completely minced to heck by the HORRENDOUS tranlsation job by Philip Gabriel, has moments that transcend the cliches and colloquilism that Gabriel unskillfully inserts in to the prose, moments that well have you stop dead in your reading, and just gaze at that one sentance over and over again. I really can't stress it enough, READ MURAKAMI! He is, in my opinion, the most important living novelist in the world. It's a shame that the international community doesn't recogize this. Murakami is more then a simple Japanese novelist, or post-modern experimenter. He's creating a whole new ficiton that every literate person can relate too.	2002-12-04
US	51020079	R1CM0CONAAKTNO	0465030491	190590158	Why Orwell Matters	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Interesting perspective on frequently misunderstood man	I've never been George Orwells biggest fan. It's not his ideas that I disagree with so much as an aversion to mixing politics and fiction. I've yet to read a really good piece of polemic in fiction form that could truly be called Literature, and it has always bothered me that people claim 1984 as a work of art. Thus is was with great delight that I read in this book Hitchens description of the novel as one of the &quot;Good Bad Books&quot; of 20th century fiction. This book enabled me to divorce Orwell from my views on literature and art, and start to view him from a scope of political scrutiny. Hitchens writes the portrait of a man who was, throughout his life, a contradiction. He aborhed racism and expressed a desire for true equality, while at the same time combating conservative views in himself that believed 'blacks' and the poor to be inferior. A man who spent his life in constant support of socialism, yet filling volumes with scathing criticism of the Left. What ultimately surfaces in this book is a picture of a man who believed in truth above all. on the closing page, Hitchens states that &quot;politics are relatively unimportant, while principles have a way of enduring, as do the few irreducible individual who maintain allegiance to them.&quot; This is why Orwell matters, not because of what he contributed to politics, important as those contribution may be, but because he followed principle above all. This book is undoubtbly worth the time and effort to read, but it isn't without it's flaws.  In more than a few spots Hitchens falls prey to the &quot;sickely veneration and sentimental overpraise&quot; that he condemns in the introduction. The lack of footnotes and bibilography is troubling to say the least, as he rarely gives exact locations of quotes, something he repeadetly calls Orwells detractors on. If you can, ignore these faults, and simply realize that this book is not an objective authority, and should be taken in most parts as merely opinion. Butregardless, it is very englightening opinion on one of the most misunderstood figures of our time.	2002-12-01
US	51020079	R25E1XY5CEIPGD	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not the most important, yet not to be marginalised.	The last two Murakami novels I read were Norwegian Wood and Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of the World. These two novels, in my mind at least, stick out as the most down to earth. Not necessiarily because they are realistic (though Norwegian Wood is infact his most realistic, Hard-boiled Wonderland is amongst his most fanciful) but because they give, or at least attempt to, order to their world. South of the Border, West of the Sun thus is to me a return to the Murakami that is best linkened to base myth. Together with Norwegian Wood, this novel ranks as one of his few attempts at a creation of a pure romantic-literary novel. As stated before, Norwegian Wood is far and away Murakami's most realistic work, so it succeeds far better at being romantic. But this novel does add something to Murakami's cannon that, I believe is lacking in the other novels; that is to say, eroticism. Love in Murakami's works is treated as a transcendental force that no man or woman can control. It grabs hold of you and will not let go. South of the Border, West of the Sun takes that idea and analysis it heavily. But in the other novels, that love is treated as something higher then the mundane. In this novel, it is brought to the mundane, which is where the eroticism comes into play. I'm noticing that my comments on this book are coming out a little rambling. I could attribute that to the caffine at 2 in the morning, but I think it is more a testament to the effect that Murakami has on the dedicated reader. His works crave to be read and pondered. Well, to give my basic, simple opinion on this book...It is not his best. It is excellent, yes, but really nothing more then a minor footnote in the career of Murakami. Wind up Bird it is not. So I can not suggest this book to the person who has never read any Murakami. To them, I would suggest reading the &quot;I&quot; duo, A Whid Sheep Chase and Dance Dance Dance. After that, you should tackle The Wind Up Bird Chronicle. And by that pointyour'll be so enamoured with him that you'll want to read every minor foot note he has.	2002-12-01
US	51020079	R3RYQLUIN7XE5D	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hemingway starts to mature	Hemingway's greatest novels (and I am not includding The Old Man and the Sea here, that is a novella, not one of his epic emotional works) start with The Sun Also Rises and end with For Whom the Bell Tolls. Sandwiched in between is the book that can be seen as transition piece (though, techinically speaking it was written right after The Sun Also Rises, and so is still part of the 'early' Hemingway that brought him fame and exceptance by the literary establishment). Like in The Sun Also Rises, he focuses on a couple main characters and their emotional bond. But also, he comments extensively on war and society, as in For Whom the Bell Tolls. This is where we start to see the pOlitical Hemingway arsise. But unlike a lot of 20th centurary literature with a social conscious, it does not sacrifice human thematic elements to push forward an agenda. No, Hemingway manages to condemn war, while still transcending the mundaness of it, the who's right and who's wrong and instead focuses on the lives that war touches and ruins. In Fredric Henry and Cathrine Barkley, he gives us two tragic heros who's lives, while becoming intertwined in love, are ultimately destroyed. Like all Hemingway, A Farewell to Arms is a true experience unrivaled in any other literature.	2002-12-01
US	51020079	R107KWCP09XJAW	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Steinbeck on the Dream	When you are feeling bad, Steinbeck is NOT the author to read. It really is a shame that most people don't read anything more of his than Grapes of Wrath (which is a great novel, don't get me wrong). This is an incredibly short read, hardly more then a short story, barely a novella, and yet it packs an emotional punch that only Steinbeck can manage. It's the story of George and Lennie, two down troden men in the California of the 30's. Like so many others, they dream of having a parcel of land for themselves. They're simple dream is really a desire to end the economic inequalities and maladies that plague their society. But when it comes down to it, Of Mice and Men is a a story of humanity, simple beautiful, brutal humanity. Lennie and George are shown the best and worst of man. They take part, in their morally ambigous way, in the good and ill of society. They are painfully sympathetic and you feel more emotional connected to them at the end of a short 120 pages then you would have thought possible. I implore everyone who reads to set aside an hour or two to read this powerful little book that will caused you to question all your previously held beliefs in regard to morality and humanity.	2002-11-26
US	51020079	R16JALWFYKH4MZ	0684833638	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A real life 'The Sun Also Rises'	Man...this book was...wow...not at all what I expected. I picked it up for a few cents at a used book store, intrigued by the description of it as \\"the wild young years of the lost generation in paris\\". Frankly I was thinking that it was probably going to be something akin to The Sun Also Rises, one of my favorite novels. But wow was I mistaken. Instead it is a memoir of 5 years of Hemingway's life in paris. These are the pre-Sun Also Rises and international fame years. He's a starving artist, living with his wife, Hadley, in the romantic, bohemian Left Bank of Paris. We are treated, and treated is the only word I can use, to many anecdotes of his life writing and socializing with his fellow expatriates. Hemingway gives us amazing portraits of Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, James Joyce, Ford Madox Ford (one of the most hilarious characters in his real life story), and, above all in my opinion, Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald. Any literature buff will be in ectasy unimaginable by anyone else. There's an ancedote towards the end of the memoir where Scott Fitzgerald tells Hemingway that Zelda was complaing about his..er..'size'. To convince him that Zelda is just being difficult, Hemingway takes Fitzgerald to the Louvre to see the nudes. You just don't get that anywhere else....	2002-11-25
US	51020079	R18NFQMNPO7F17	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great, and yet....	It's 10 o'clock and I have just finished the tome that all Lit buffs fear with a terror unknown by any other group. Coming out of this Herculean task, I can't say that I'm not a slightly disappointed, but I also can't say that I didn't just read one of the greatest novels ever put to page. No one before or after Tolstoy has written something with the sheer scope of War and Peace. Five families, more characters then you can keep track off and a country torn and shaped by War populate this novel that transcends the novel. If you venture to read this tome, you'll be giving a part of yourself over to the characters of it. You'll feel passionate love and pure hatred, loathe some actions, and admire others, you'll think (man will you think...), you'll feel, you'll be emersed into a world that we do not know anymore. You'll desperetley want to learn Russian.<br />That said...even Tolstoy is not perfect. As many others reviewers have stated, War and Peace is spliced with many chapters that are there to spell out Tolstoy's theory of history. While they are interesting, and even insightful in some points, they simply do not fit in with the story. You'll be dying to know what happens next to the people who have given all your emotions over too, and instead of being treated to more exposition on their life, you instead have to read 30 pages of analysis of Russian battle stratagies in the war of 1812. Interesting, yes, but does it really belong there? Also, Tolstoy does not, I feel, successfully rap up the story lines of some of the more minor characters. Boris, for instance, is quickly shuttled out of the picture two thirds of the way through the book. Sonya's character doesn't get the time that her story deserves. All in all, it is an amazing read that you will never forget...	2002-11-23
US	51020079	R7KC6X5XQNO96	0140268863	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The west travels from myth to literature	What's there to say that hasn't been said already? Homer is the cornerstone of Western literature, no one will deny that. But why? In the Illiad, he created something larger than life. An epic war pitting man against man and god against god. In the Odyssey he created the idea of the story of one man. The Odyssey is the first instance of true character in the Western cannon. In Odysseus we see a hero that we can relate to. One that is above us without being superior to us. He flawed, but still embodies the best of human kind. The Odyssey is, I'm convinced, the bridge between myth and the novel (something that can only be done by poetry). It does not feel detached from reality, with a higher purpose, like mythology. But it still maintains the universal, base actions and characters that you simply don't find in most novels. It really is a most excelent poem, and anyone who feared it's wrath in high school or college desperatley needs to give it another go. If you don't mind spending the extra cashs, Fagles translation of both the Odyssey and the Illiad simply cannot be beat. But for those of us strapped for cash, and who want something a little easier to carry around, Allen Mandelbaum's translation, put out as a bantam classic pocket book for quite cheap, is also very respectable (though it just simply doesn't flow as well as Fagles...)	2002-10-31
US	51020079	R1OK7DWBSBZ1B0	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Intelligent Layman introduction	What an illuminating read... Previous reviewers have stated that this isn't the best single book introduction out there, and I have to agree, though not to the extent some save. No doubt, it is vital to have at least a basic understanding of who the gnostic christians were and why the orthodox christians opposed them. But you can learn this information fairly easily online. Look up a few web pages, maybe read a couple of the Nag Hammadi texts (which, let's face it, is the best possible way to learn just what the gnostics were all about). But after that, this is simply the best book to go to. No, it is not perfect. It focuses, perhaps, a bit too much on the 'feminist' aspects of the gnostic controversies, giving them more time then they really deserve. But, keepin that in mind, it's possible to read the book and just realize that Pagels isn't focusing on the MOST important parts. Either way, this book will completely reverse any preconcieved notions you may have about the gnostics or the early orthodox church.	2002-10-25
US	51020079	R24LZIM98AVCGJ	0679772871	380732504	The Magic Mountain	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Farwell Hans!	What a sweeping novel. Really, I have never come across another book in which I felt I knew the main character quite so well as this one. We, the readers, as not spared one detail of Hans Castorp's 7 year soujorn into the Swiss Alps seeking treatment for a supposed case of TB. This novel, quite simply, encompasses all of early twientieth centery Europe. Bergohf, the santatorium where Hans stays, is, as the back of the book states, a microcosm of Europe. Ths you will find that all the characters represent some aspect of the European mindset in the early 1900's (right before World War I, mind you...). We are shown the major deabates of contenintal philosophy, the angry polemic of radicals and reactionaries alike. Our blank slate, Hans, is molded and shaped by this world away from reality, and we come to understand things about human nature, suffering, illness, and strife that simply wouldn't be illuminate otherwise. I did like this book. But in the end, I was finding it excessivley long. Many of the later episodes do not seem to give much to the plot and do not shed any new light on to Hans' character. So I recommend this book with reservations. The Good parts of it are REALLY good. But just be prepared for a long, occasionally frustrating read.	2002-10-23
US	51020079	R2T6GQUM1O88MY	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Murakami proves himself to be more than a 'niche' writer	This novel was a huge depature from Murakami's other work. Unlike his other works, which are chalk full of evil sheep, unicorns, wind up birds, and the end of the world, Norwegian Wood is a fairly straight forward coming of age love story. But the relativly simplistic plot of this novel betrays a very complex underworking that is just as good, if not better, then the other, more playful and bizarre, books. In terms of actual style, I couldn't help but liken it to a mixture of The Great Gatasby and Catcher in the Rye (bot of which are alluded too many times in the course of Norwegian Wood). Unlike the other Murakami's, which I feel have an almost emotional void to them (which I love, don't get me wrong...), this one was almost painfully emotional. Loce, loss, hardship, happiness; Murakami touches on all of them. And Toru Watanabe is not the average Murakami Hero. AGain, he is more emotional, less detached then the others. The reader knows him far better than any of the other protagonists in the other novels. You feel for him. You understand the basis of his pain. It's really a powerful novel. Any Murakami fan that hasn't yet read this, must get to it as soon as poissible. Don't overlook it because it appears to be mainstream (which it really isn't). However...if you are looking for a Murakami book to start with, I really can't recommend this one, simply because it is so much more different than the other books. Try the Wind-up Chronicle or A Wild Sheep Chase. And have fun. Reading Murakami for the first time is on e of the greatest experiences you can have.	2002-10-14
US	51020079	R1VJCSKYKPR9D4	0679743464	683839369	Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World: A Novel (Vintage International)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Even the End of the World is subjective....	The more Murakami I read, the more impressed I am. Why is this author not recognized more often by the literary establishment? He has all the qualities of great Literature: Great characters, complex plots, amazing structure, and, above all originality. His books are just as good, if not better than, anything the American Literary community has put out in recent years. Placing him alongside Pynchon and Delillo, argubably the two most important American authors of the last 25 years, is not an unfounded goal. As for Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of the World? It delivers in spades of course. It is far and away the most confusing of any of the five Murakami's I've read. This is because, unlike it Wind up Bird or the &quot;I&quot; books, the oddities of his world are not accepted without question. The other books have a base myth quality to them. There is no sense trying to explain why Toru sits at the bottom of a well or why &quot;I&quot; talks to a Sheep Man, it's just something you need to accept. In HBWATEOTW though, there is a conscious effort to explain the reasons for what is happening, hence the comparissons to the cyber punk genere (horrible comparissons that ignore a large section of the work). But this isn't to say that Murakami abandons the myth of his previous works. It's still there, there is just reasoning behind it. Themeatically, I find HBWLATEOTW to be his most powerful. It is a resounding acceptance of subjectivism and the power of a single human mind to shape reality and existance. Any intelligent reader out there owes it to him or herself to read Murakami. It is an experience found in no other author.	2002-10-08
US	51020079	RB6AV5GM8TT59	0679753796	323270866	Dance Dance Dance	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I've said it once, I'll say it again: Murakami is a GENIUS	I finally found out why I love Murakami. Bear with me, because I'm still molding this idea... Murakami's protaganists are, for the most, not the typical Japanese sterotype. They don't work, or they little, or they work sporadically. They rarely follow tradition. They steep themselves in Western culture, trying to become Western. They reject their Eastern mindset without ever rejecting the East. They stay fundementally Japanese, no matter how hard they try to push away from that life. I think that many Americans feel this same way (flip-flopped, obviously). How many Westerners have become Buddhists? How many steep themselves in the insane culture of modern japan (wether it be Anime, video games, J-pop, whatever)? How many long for the East and reject the West without ever leaving the mindset? Many. I'm one. Murakami's books are the perfect relic of modern life. In our interconnected world (connected by Wind-up Birds and Sheep Men alike), cultural identity is something we long to shrugh off. Yet we can't. We dance in a never-ending sprial of life. <br />Dance Dance Dance is just as good as Wind-up Bird. Unlike Wild Sheep Chase, it does not have that brevity, almost short story quality that marred A Wild Sheep Chase for me (which isn't to say I didn't like it..just the opposite, it is certainly one of my favorite books, just not on par with Dance or Wind-up Bird). There are certain things we need to forgive Murakami for though. He certainly has a stock leading man. But so did Hemmingway, and no one is cursing him for it. The Hemmingway-Hero is a legit archetype now. Murakami repeatedly uses the same themes and motifs throughout his work. Well, so what? What great author hasn't? Pynchon and Dellio consistently do, but no one questions their ranking amongst the great writers. Murakami is a great writer, of incredible depth and insight. He is one fo the greatest treasures of the International literature scene, and there is no reason whatsoever that we should question hisvalidity as a writer of genius Literate Fiction with a capital LF.	2002-10-01
US	51020079	R3GI2YCQCZGNRF	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Interesting for everyone - not just gardeners	Honestly, I'm not sure why I read this book. I'm not a gardener and, really, I couldn't care less about botany and biology. Yet I'm not regretting reading it. This was one of the most intriguing reads I've had in awhile. The basic thesis, that plants use humans just as much as humans use plants, is intriguing to everyone, including the layman. But what makes it so great is the extra touches by Pollan. The pages on Johnny Appleseed as the Dionysus of American Myth was worth the price of the book alone. Then there's also the history of the tulip trade, the history of cannabis use in western civiliation, and the overview of current trends in genetically modified foods (specifically potaoes). This book is a perfect example of 'something for everyone.' Pollan does not limit himself to simply proving his thesis (though he does this admirably). Instead, he treats his subject with a loving tenderness, examining all aspects of it to creat a coherent picture of the whole. Highly Recommended.	2002-09-26
US	51020079	RDW2MYCZLM735	037571894X	858260451	A Wild Sheep Chase: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Crazy, crazy stuff....	Uhm. Yea. I can honestly say this is the most original novel I have ever read. The hunt for the evil sheep with a star on its back...No one but Murakami would think of something quite this insane. Which isn't to say to book is bad. It's manic and rarely makes sense, yes, but it *works*. <br />This is my second Murakami book, the first being Wind-up Bird, which I loved. Compared to Wind-up Bird, though, A Wild Sheep Chase comes off more like a short story than an independant novel. It is not any where near as spawling or epic as Wind-up, nor is the plot as deep, or the characters as rich. But inpsite of this, I still really liked A Wild Sheep Chase. No, there were not any profound themes, and my view of the world has not really changed. But man, was that one enjoyable read... Great, but shallow, story. Great, but hardly dynamic, character. And, most importantly, GREAT writing. Man I love Murakami...	2002-09-25
US	51020079	R2AEK5P1HPZDTF	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	3	17	35	N	N	Great introduction but for the hardend Atheist/Agnostic? Nah	I have very mixed feelings about this collection of essays. If I had read it 5 or 6 years ago, I would have considered it genius. But today? I've heard these same arguments over and over again. Well, to focus on the positive, Lord Russell does put a few ideas that, while not to terribly original, are thought provoking nonetheless. He says some interesting things about Tom Paine, makes some interesting comments on Democracy and Education, and rational morality. On the other hand, Russell too often acts as a priest of the religion of Science. I won't deny the importance of science to the advancement of civilization, but when it becomes a Dogma it is no better than Christian ignorance. Overall...if you are a doubtful Christian, read this book. It will be a godsend. If you are alread a freethinker, there really isn't any point. Your time could be spent better somewhere else, certianly.	2002-09-21
US	51020079	R2PQ586A9I19LV	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Eastern mindset meets Western philosophy	Wow. Just...wow. I finished this novel about 10 minutes ago and I'm only now able to put it down and enter the real world again. This is one of the best novels, if not THE best, I have ever had the pleasure to read. Many people here say it, and they are all right: Murakami is a genius. Everything about this work was perfect or near perfect. It has amazing insights into the problems of existance that are as profound as any philosophical text, yet it doesn't (as so many so-called Postmodern novels do) sacrafice plot to do this. Rather, The Wind-up Bird Chronicle has, quite possibly, the best plot in any contemporary novel. No one except a psychic schizophrenic could predict what will happen next. And yet is all fits together beautifully. It reads as a literary representaion of the chaotic order of current philosophical thought. Amazing, amazing book. I haven't encountered an author who shocked me this much since Nabokov and Lolita. I know I'm rambling right now, but I can't help it. READ THIS BOOK. It will change every perspective you have on life. I know it did mine.	2002-09-19
US	51020079	R1YW7CXFA8P2C5	0140262881	859967900	Philosophy and Social Hope	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Social Democratic theory by way of Neo-Pragmatism	As I am only a moderetly well-read senior in High school, I really can't comment on this book from the perspective of a philosopher. I will openly admit that many of the names and a few of the concepts that Rorty presented flew right over my head. Yet I really enjoyed the book. I may be wrong in thinking this, but I believe this book to be a great stepping stone between the sort of &quot;50 Great Philosophers&quot; books and hard-core theory, wether it be James, Nietzsche, Dewey, Kant, whoever. A sort of Intelligent layman introduction to modern Pragmatist thought. While I do realize that much of Rorty's works are nothing to spectacular in the academic world, but, speaking as an outsider to that world, I must say that his ideas seemed revolutionary, compared with the traditional wisdom and common sense most of us are taught day in and day out. I mean, up until I read this book, the most supreme philosophical concept that tore me apart was the objective-subjective dualism. And here comes Rorty telling me that objective-subjective is a diachotomy that doesn't matter. Not really mind blowing, but definetly more to chew on, and I do so love that. Thus, philosophically, I think this is a great collection. Politically though...Well, let's just say when it's possible for *ME* to find the holes in the arguments, they are shallow arguments indeed. It's not so much that I disagree with Rorty (infact, I whole heartedly agree with 90% of the politics he presents in this book) so much as the fact that he comes off more as a political outsider with a sort of Everyman understanding of History, Economics, and Politics. But, as Rorty says in this collection (another thing that's obvious yet I can never seem to manage), we should not judge a philosopher by his politics, and vice versa. To sum up: Intelligent layman trying to work their way in to hardcore philosophy, this book acts as a gate-way to the world of Hegel and Kant, but there is most likely little to be found here for the hardened phisolophy junkie.	2002-09-11
US	51020079	R1XBTEHQFCL3YR	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Makes annoying Modernist techniques FUN!	Wow...simply wow. Well, the first obvious thing to do is compare this to Ulysess. It is a 'day in the life of' subjectivist steam-of-consciousness novel, like Ulysess (though much, much easier to understand...more like Joyce in &quot;A Portriait&quot; really...), but it also has Proustian elements on the nature of time and man's place in time. It's a simple story, almost too simple. A family and some friends live on the Isle of Skye in the Hebrides. That's about it. But, oh the Characters! Everylast one of them can be analyzed for hours and hours, yet none of them ever become less then believable. It's a wonderful, moving experience to read this novel. And for those of you worrying about the difficulty, don't. This isn't Finnegans Wake. Yes, you do have to pay more attention to it then say, a Daniel Steele novel, and it is by no means escapist, but it isn't anything that a slightly intelligent person couldn't figure out. And every slightly intelligent person should read this novel.	2002-08-26
US	51020079	R1QVPHGRW5K1G2	0446607258	79911364	Mythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best overview out there	Marvelous! This is, quite simply, the best book on ancient mythology available today. It has everything you could ask for; It's readable, erudite scholars tome this is not; it's comprehensive, covering every major myth you'll find allusions too in modern literature; it's not analytical, it presents the stories as they should be, beautiful in their simplicity, not awash in modern symbolism; and, most important of all, the book sparks an passion for mythology. After reading this book, instead of feeling like you know all there is to know about the ancients religion, you'll want to actually read Hamilton's original sources. It actually makes you want to read Hesiod, Homer, Herodotus, Euridpides, Sophocles, Virgil, and all the others in the great classical cannon. Truly, I can't recommend this book enough.	2002-08-21
US	51020079	R2ZS8MD73K5NY1	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A first- Intellectual fantasy!	Loved it! In a world of Tolkien clones, and never ending cash cow 'epics' it is oh so refreshing to find a truly intellectual fantasy novel. Gaiman has created a novel that the well read individual can read and not feel like they are induldging in the equivalent of a fast food burger. People like Goodkind satasify that certain craving, but you feel vaguley ill after finishing it. American Gods, though, is an incredibly original, intelligent, involving story. Anyone who ever studied world mythology, enjoys sociological observations that are, at time, incredibly enlightening, and likes to read an enjoyable novel needs to check this one out.	2002-08-19
US	51020079	R4XI0LWZ3ON9T	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Actually lives up to the hype!	Don't listen to the negative reviews- this is an excellent novel. The story is fairly simple, and imagine that most of you have gotten well accquainted with it in the below reveiws, so I won't go into it. But the plot is what drives this story; rather, it is the wonderfully crafted characters of the Lambert family. Some complain that there are no likeable characters in this book, and to a certain extent this is true. But they are all sympathetic. Watching their lives fall apart is a tragic, moving experience.	2002-08-19
US	51020079	R17H78Q2OWV4V0	034536676X	680934194	The World According to Garp	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Just....good	Beautiful novel. I loved this book. It's a comedy-tragedy about love and loss that manages to be funny without being cruel, and heartbreaking without being sentimental. All of the characters are very well fleshed out, and are extremely interesting. The relationships, while outrageous,are believable, and though the plot is out there, the book always keeps its feet on the ground. I really can't recommend it enough. What I will say, though, is this: Do NOT see the atrocious movie first. It is nothing at all like the book and it gets the characters personalities all wrong. Wait until you are in a weird mood and then pick up this delightfully fun and odd novel.	2002-08-19
US	51020079	R3SJHZV1ZZCTT3	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	1	3	N	N	I mean, you HAVE to read it...	What's there to say? It's the Iliad. The most important war novel, nay, the most imporant NOVEL, of all time. Timeless characters, amazing story, and a thousand and one side plots [used] by every hackeneyed fantasy author in the last 3000 years. There is no substitute for Fagles translation. He makes verse read like prose without sacraficing the rhthym and flow of Homer. Simply put, any intelligent (or pseudo-intelligent, like me) person MUST read this at some point, and Fagles book is the best out there.	2002-08-19
US	51020079	R1E8IW0XTHTIFO	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Oh so overrated	Try as I might, I just don't get the appeal of the Utopia/Dystopia genre. With it's idealistic philosophies and overdrawn characters, it leaves much to be desired by the realist. This book, who's plot is well known enough that I do not think I need to delve into it here, is very indicative of the whole genre. All of the characters are cardboard cutouts of the denziens of the utopian novel. There's the bewildered outsider, there's the one who can't accept the system, there's the one who accepts it whole heartedly, there's the victim of said society, etc, etc, etc. Yes, the book does raise important objections to the Totalitarian state and religious fidelity to science, however, these are actually fairly common objections that you do not need to read a 250 page book to figure out. If you loved 1984, give it a shot I guess. Otherwise, just read some critiques of Communist(and to a lesser extent, state capitalist) ideology.	2002-08-08
US	51020079	R1QFUS893U2WKU	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Good book, annoying author	First off, let me say that the concept of this book is brillant. It invokes the hay day of investigative journalism and muckrucking. However, the book's author leaves much to be desired This is my first encounter with Ms. Ehrenreich's work, and I must say I am not that impressed. Not that there were any major flaws in her experiment. That was actually done quite well, as good as most could have hoped to do it. My problem with the book is that Ms. Ehrenreich comes off far to egotistical for her own good. Many times in the course of the study, she turns it into a personal account, why she is so great for doing this, why she is so smart, why she is so much more qualified then the rest of the poor (she says 'over qualified' so many times I nearly threw a fit). Basically, she strikes me as an Ivory Tower liberal who wants a medal for doing what millions do every day. Maybe I'm just nitpicking though. Overall- I agree with the concept of this book, and it raises many important questions, and for that reason it is worth reading, at least until a study by a better author comes along.	2002-08-08
US	51020079	RG2HHU901YEF7	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I wanted to love it, really....	This was a very mixed work. I really, really, really wanted to love it, but... Well, to be positive, the first part was near genius. Egger's family situation is geniunely interesting,and, perhaps, a little heartbreaking. But in the second half, he really starts to wear on you. There's only so much Gen X self-examination one can stand. Over all the work is written very well, it's paced well, the characters are great, his story is funny, intriguing, and interesting. By the end though, and I know this makes me sound as heartless as possible, I was throwing down the book yelling, \\"STOP WHINNING ABOUT YOUR DEAD MOM!\\" Anyway...if you are you looking for a fairly easy read that is still a piece of litertaure, AHWOSG is worth the time, but it certainly isn't without it's flaws.	2002-08-08
US	51020079	R3LYP8HTR97BT3	0684839741	635285578	Good As Gold	Books	3	4	7	N	N	In ain't no &quot;Catch-22&quot;....	...But, then again, what is? I guess my expectations for this book were way too high. I loved &quot;Catch-22&quot;, and it ranks amongst my favorite books of all time. But &quot;Good As Gold&quot; seemed...off. It reads almost as if someone was trying to immitate Heller (a poor immitation at that). It was nearly as funny as &quot;Catch-22&quot;, nor was the humor as dark or ironic. It was absurd, for the most part. Only Ralph and the other Politicians in the book had lines with any real biting social criticism that were comparable to EVERYTHING EVERYONE said in &quot;Catch-22&quot;. It does make many interesting comments on politics in America, though frankly they are expessed elsewhere in a more productive manner. I found my copy at Half price books for about a buck, and I consider it worth that much, at least. In short, read &quot;Catch-22&quot;, if you just love it, read &quot;Good as Gold&quot; for a Heller-heroin fix...<br />(I do need to write up my favorite quote from the novel though...from Ralph- &quot;American Democracy is the most rigid aristocracy on earth...&quot;)	2002-07-09
US	51020079	R21IELBORAP45	0061054887	758428577	The Dispossessed (Hainish Cycle)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Anarchism- Good and Bad	While reading this book, I couldn't help but get the feeling that it is an Atlas Shrugged but for the Left Libertarians rather then the Right Libertarians. They are both books of Idealistic politics and morality. But there is a major difference between the two. Whereas Atlas Shrugged is one-sided propaganda that could hardly be called critical, The Dispossessed is not a fawning love-portrait. Ursula K. Le Guin does not accept Anarchism with the feverent faith that Ayn Rand accepted Capitalism. She recognized that problems would certainly arise, and true to Libertarian form, she addresses these problems in The Dispossessed. Shevek is no John Galt, and that is why The Dispossessed is simply the best novel of Idealistic politics out there.	2002-07-02
US	51020079	R2OESWYXSWGPYH	0853451753	990503246	Anarchism: From Theory to Practice	Books	5	76	79	N	N	Best slim volume intro out there	I read this book in a day, and filled the margins with many, many notes, something I rarely do. Clearly, Gruien doesn't cover every aspect of Anarchism, but for a brief introduction to Proudhon, Bakhunin and Kropotkin, it is the best out there. And, our very own American Anarchist Noam Chomsky did the introduction, which is just as good as anything in the book (Hell, his intro is half the reason I bought the book). Plus, it is a very well bound book. The pages are sturdy, the print clear, and the size small yet durable, something you really don't find in many Political books... Very recommended.	2002-06-29
