US	51021767	R1YUL5KPNPYA24	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	1	7	11	N	N	A boring tale with too much going on	Yes, I understand that seems like a contradiction, but it was the exact feeling I had when reading this book.  Tehre were so many stories and subplots and new plots getting introduced near the completion of the book.  Suffice it to say I was greatly dissapointed with this read.<br />To give a summary, I am not even sure where to start. It actually did start out pretty strong.  With tales of an old friends and their distinctions, I thought it would at least be a well thought out book about friendship.  About a quarter of the way through, things take a turn for the worse and never really get back to the zealous and picturesque story telling that occured in the beginning. By time I was about 2/3 of the way away from completion, I couldn't wait to put it down.  Because I always finish books, I stuck it out, but believe me it was a chore.  There were a few moments of clarity where I thought things from the end would somehow tie into things for the beginning, but really that never happened.  I mean in the end we find the entire basis of the book, the only redeeming quality of life long friendship,  was a fallacy in the first place, and instead of expanding on this- even a little bit, the author just ends the book.  I mean really, what was the point?	2003-06-14
US	51021767	R1DCY37HE3A37K	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I believe in Owen!	Everyone that reads this book will feel like it's protragonist, John Wheelwright because everyone that reads this book will feel like Owen is their best friend.  I fell in love with this novel (and Owen), the only dissapointment I encountered was when I ran out of pages to read.	2003-04-16
US	51021767	RGTF36YHRSDPX	0802131379	670986725	Last Exit to Brooklyn (Evergreen Book)	Books	3	5	14	N	N	I felt like it was trying too hard	I emphatically believe in the reading and writing of honest truth.  As a reader, I much prefer the harsh, brutal and basic version of a story rather than it's rose-colored fantasy. 'Last Exit' Certainly belongs in that category; But, there is a fine line between the telling of the truth and the exploitation of it, and in his first novel, Selby crosses that line.<br />The book is a collection of short stories about a variety of people coexisting in the ghettos of Brooklyn post WWII.  Homosexuals, Drug users, drag queens, a gang of thugs that steal, beat, rape and murder, child molesting union officers, Nazi-like tenants, baby killers, rednecks and white trash; this book has it all.  I liked the fact that it was realistic and gave you a perspective from very different parts of this sub-culture.  The author did an excellent job of conveying the energy and anger that everyone who lived in these projects must have felt on a daily basis.  I think that JR. Selby shows the potential for becoming an excellent writer on society as it exists, but I dont think he has perfected the craft in his first novel.  Controversial subjects and explicit details were rehashed and drawn out simply for shock value, which is where this novel falls short.  Last Exit was so constantly sadistic that it became a little boring, I felt like he was trying to hard to disgust his readers and show people that he had the guts to write this way, and not enough time perfecting his talent as a writer.  Although I wouldnt put this on my list of favorites, I still look forward to reading other works by Selby.	2003-04-03
US	51021767	R3CRNBO69TGP8L	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Symbolic, Suspenseful , Sensational!	Native Son is the most inspiring book I have read in a long time. It speaks of prejudices, foreign to me being a middle class white female in the 21st century, yet assisted my understanding of how confining and debilitating this must have been. I am embarrassed of how my white ancestors treated the black population, and very aware that hatred for different races is prominent on all sides of the color wheel. Like the author of Native Son, I wish that people could understand that down deep, in our psyches and inner core- there is no color. Native Son also speaks of - death-, which transcends all racial boundaries and unites us all in the end.<BR> The novel is based on young Bigger Thomas, a Negro teenager growing up in Chicago's 'black belt' in the 40's. Daily Bigger must deal with his poor and starving family, pressure of being the 'leader' of his delinquent group of friends; he is segregated, oppressed, angry and most of all very scared. A brutal bully on the exterior masks his silent fear that he discusses with no one and doesn't even admit to himself. The source of Bigger's fear (and hatred) is the great mountain of white people, whom he holds accountable for oppression of the Negro population. One afternoon, Bigger devises a plan with his buddies to rob a white delicatessen. He then starts a fight and pulls a knife on one of his the boys in order to get out of pulling off the burglary. Later that night he is to get his first job, driving the family car for a very prominent white family on the other side of town. Though he doesn't admit it, Bigger is happy that he will at least have money for his family to be able to eat. That evening, on his first task of driving the young daughter to a 'school event' - young Mary is murdered by Bigger in an accidental sort of way. Bigger derives a plan to cover up the situation, which fails miserably and he gets himself into even more trouble. The painful and gruesome actions that Bigger is able to perform are the byproduct of his oppression and ultimate fear. Despite that he is pretty certain he will be unable to escape his fate; after the murder, Bigger is more calm and peaceful then he has been ever before in his life. It's like he has been waiting for something disastrous to happen his whole life and now that it has, there is no reason to worry about trying to prevent it any longer. He deals with his fate stoically, for now he is a man and understands more deeply than before. He arrives at an enlightened existence of race and death and fear and anger, and for the first time believes that maybe he really is something more than a criminal black kid on the streets of Chicago. <br />Richard Wright, the author of Native Son, grew up in a poor family in the South with much segregation. He later moved to Chicago- where he found it to be less prejudiced, but still his people were very confined. Despite his hard, poor childhood- in and out of orphanages, he was able to become an educated and enlightened author. Many blacks have asked him why he didn't write a tale of a successful brother such as himself, fearing that the boy that he depicts will only confirm the suspicions of whites that blacks are all evil and capable of gruesome crimes. His view on this was that he had to be honest, had to make a statement as to how this whole mess of racism and hatred could end up if something was not done. He wanted people to know that there is a hatred for whites among the black population that is as deep and powerful as its counterpart.  Mostly, he felt that he could not be afraid to relate this message, and would not succumb to the fear of doing so.	2003-02-18
US	51021767	R2GNNYNJYWOGH1	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	the basic goodness of society	If you aren't in for a long cognitive adventure, then don't read this book.  I wouldn't reccomend reading it by the pool or lying on the beach with a boombox at your back.  Chances are though, if you are even looking up this review, that isn't the type of reader you are.  If you are willing to advance the effort, you will be duly rewarded with this novel.  True, I found some parts to be slow and a little over done, but for a book written in the late 1800's to still be appreciated in 2002?!  That is truly amazing.  It transends time, culture, race, religion, sex... despite the fact that it was written so long ago, if you try to read it, you will enjoy this novel. I promise.<br />It starts in the sity of St. Petersburg, it starts with our young protragonist with a Napolean complex, hungry, alone and ashamed.  He comes up with a scenerio he doesn't think himself capable of, and though it may not be necessary for his survival, it certainly could potentially help him, and his family.  More than anything, to prove himself to himself he commits the crime, despite the fact that he doesn't really want to in the first place.  Then, like a slap in the face of his own geniusness, he finds himself betrayed by his own worst enemy, his conscience.  It is ironic that it is so easy for our young hero to accept the fact that he is a good person that made mistakes, when it is so easy for him to accept this trait in others (enter the drunk that prostitues his daughter).  Unlike most of society (then or now) Rasko (my pet name for him as the names in this novel got a bit out of hand) held the amazing characteristic of being able to see through people and realize that some of us who look bad to others, are really good at heart and some that look good to society, are real harmful people underneath.Too bad he couldn't apply this logic to the mirror.<br />This is a psychological thriller that doesn't have a thrilling plot, a romance novel with no love, a soliliquy with no song.  This book basicallly encompasses everything it wasn't.  It explores the mind of a criminal and demonstrates the philosophy that every man is inherently good, even those that do bad things.  These bad things are fed with some sort of explanation, we just have to listen for it.	2002-08-23
US	51021767	R3K999S3V2WV4F	0449911519	207158162	The Secret History	Books	3	11	12	N	N	"We only begin to live when we conceive life as tragedy"	In the spirit of revisited masterpieces with modern flair, Donna Tart brings us, \\"A Secret History\\". A novel about an elite clique of six 'Generation X' college students who engross themselves with each other and their studies, drink a lot of alcohol, struggle with identities, and realize how truly tragic the grown up world is. Seem like a pretty typical coming of age novel?, well factor in the groups participation in archaic Greek rituals, the murder of one of their own and a grand cover-up scheme and the novel gains some originality if nothing else. Think I gave away the whole plot? Not really- there isn't much of a plot to give away, at least not one worthy of the 400+ pages SH presents, but still, it's a decent read, kind of like 90210 with a Homeresque influence. <br />The story is narrated by the newest addition to this pseudo-aristocratic group, Richard, a typical California kid who travels to the secluded hills of Vermont to pursue educational endeavors and escape his mundane, middle class family life. Upon arrival to this prestigious university, he quickly learns the existence of this mystical society that studies classics and has only one teacher for it's entire curriculum. Despite warnings from seemingly 'normal' peers and teachers, young Richard is obsessionately determined to be accepted by this exotic sub-culture. Through him we are slowly acquainted the other obscure characters and their diabolical secret history. To the surprise of the rest of the college, Richard gains acceptance into the elite society, but he still feels excluded on many levels. Wtih the nagging notion that things aren't exactly as they seem (even to an insider), Richard tries to make all the members accept him and bestow their confidence in him.  Eventually, Richard gets his way, but his knowledge of covert behaviors and cherished secrets forces him to become more deeply entangled in their activities and causes him to participate in otherwise inconceivable exploits. Throughout thenovel we witness our narrator's loss of innocence and refreshing naivety and watch as he painfully ascertains the meaning of the opening quote.<BR> <br />Despite it's seemingly captivating homicide scandal, SH is not a mystery; it is not a thrilling nor suspenseful novel, though it does have it's engaging, charismatic characters, a little bit of sexually provocative situations, and some undeniably funny circumstances all readers can relate to. It has been called Intellectual, a thinking man's novel, but I didn't find that either. Simply because a novel is based on intellectual characters and an academic subject matter, it doesn't qualify as an educational novel. It's style has been compared to that of the 'Great Gatsby', however I wasn't quite as impressed; I thought the novel was decent, but I would hardly compare it to such a literary masterpiece. What I did find was a touching story and a somewhat philosophical abstract on one's creation of identity. One of my favorite quotes from the Secret History was from the prophetic teacher Julian who told his students, \\"Our own selves make us most unhappy, and that's why we're so anxious to lose them, don't you think?.\\" College years are a very formative find in a person's life (even if you don't go to college) and I think Secret History is a good reflection of the time when we go through switching our identities and becoming the person we want to be, building identities based on traits we strive for and abolishing those we abhor, taking a little from those we admire and putting aside traits of those we don't . In time we find that we may not be able to escape some characteristics innate in our personality and everyone deals with this in a different way. It was interesting to witness the characters in this book face this realism, but not interesting enough to be drawn out for 400 pages. I have heard many claim Secret History to be amongst their personal favorites, and though I found it somewhat mediocre, perhaps you'll disagree and find the insatiableness that I somehow missed.	2002-03-07
US	51021767	R2VFNOC57C5RZ6	1586210661	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Me laugh long time	There's something to be said for mindless novels now and then.  'Me Talk Pretty One Day' will not be a contendor for the next Pulitzer Prize due to it's ground breaking literary contention, but it will make you laugh for a little while.  The novel and it's author display an amazingly eccentric ability for not ALWAYS taking life so seriously.<br />      Through this collection of short essays, David Sedaris (often heard on NPR) takes us through his malfunctioned childhood in North Carolina, his drug induced and somewhat irresponsible twenties to his days of living in New York and Paris in his early and late thirties.  Tons of quaint anecdotes throughout his life are comprised to make this quirky (and sometimes humurously perverse) story, it is an excellent and refreshing break from the more serious novles, and most certainly deserves it's place on the NY Times Best seller list.<br />  Although not my normal stlye of reading, I would certainly reccomend this novel to anyone.  It's short, quick, easy to read, plus you get the bonus of a non-fiction reading choice that reads like a soap opera.  Some may find it a little idiotic, but the truth is that Sedaris thinks the same zany many of us do, we just don't admit it as openly.  It's quite a refreshing change of pace during such serious times and will cause the reader to remember how much fun it is to laugh at your self once in a while.	2002-01-19
US	51021767	RYK3YNO147XDL	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Whoa!	`Music for Torching' certainly relies more on shock value than literary flair to make it appealing.  This book is definitely shocking.  You will never believe all the tragedies and tribulations that occur in the Weiss household within the space of one week; burning houses, affairs that the wife pretends to not know of, housewives with studded strap-ons, tattoo rendezvous' and spacemen, the plot and characters are incredulously random and fallaciously confusing.  <br /> Every member of the Weiss family feels gravely bereft in some fashion, and they take it out on each other.  This book represents the epitome of unhappy housewives and belies of families trying to live up to a `Brady Bunch' mentality.  It could make up a wonderful, heartwarming, realistic story, but it doesn't.  Instead it is over stimulating and overly dramatic, the characters are disengaged and the reader never really cares about any of them.  There is so much going on, it stressful to read this novel, there are so many questions left un-answered, its frustrating. <br /> Perhaps Homes was thinking the big screen when writing \\"Music for Torching\\", with all of the absurdities, it would certainly make an exceptional episode of Melrose Place, but if that's the case she should have submitted her story to a producer- not a publisher.	2001-08-17
US	51021767	R31FAU6OY60D6H	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The prerogative to create individual morality	Coetzee cogently demonstrates his extraordinary writing talent in his latest award winning novel, Disgrace.  Anyone that can turn a novel comprised of disconcerting characters and their brackish behavior into a contemporary classic has to be truly gifted.  Before delving into this work of art, the reader must remind himself that by no means is the author condoning the behavior of any of his characters, he is not suggesting that the matters incorporated in this book are right or wrong, he is simply representing their existence.  By no means does the novel subscribe to fairytale romances with picturesque endings, some of the things described are painful and difficult to read.  'Disgrace'is not a novel for anyone that prefers to live by an `out of site, out of mind' philosophy; but if you are able to overcome how vast cultural differences can be, if you realize even if things you don't know wont hurt you, they still exist, you will find a true literary and cultural jem within these pages. It provides the reader with the simple, yet profound, awareness that while society can inflict consequences, every creature possesses an intrinsic right to live by his own ethics.<br /> The novel opens with the late mid-life crisis of a semi-washed up college professor who has yet to become what he wants to be when he grows up. The aforesaid, David Lurie is not willing to heed to his advanced years; he does not want to accept that he is no longer the Cassanova he once was, all hisyears as a successful lethario have gotten him nothing except two ex-wives and a daughter that he barley knows,  he has not yet admitted that he has wasted his profession teaching communications (when his true passion was romantic languages), even the two books he has published have been pathetically unsuccessful.  In a final fleeting frenzy looking for love in all the wrong places, David rebukes passes from women his own age, fruitlessly attempts to propagate a relationship from the prostitute he visits weekly, then selfishly seduces one of the young students in his class. Eventually, his brow-raising behavior is revealed to his peers and the girl's father, who demands retribution.  The bricolage morality committee at the University gives David an easy way out, expecting a public explanation and apology. The headfast professor sees this as a ploy to embarrass him and to relinquish the sordid details of his self-entitled love affair, asserting that man has a right to a private life that need not be justified to the outside world, David demands punishment without explanation.  His stubborn behavior(which no one can understand),costs him his job.  David retreats to his daughter's farm in the extremely rural regions of post-apartheid South Africa.  There he plans to ruminate and compose an opera depicting the later years of Byron's scandalous love life. The daughter, Lucy, a lesbian and former hippy, pursues the country life on her small plot.  In order to obtain the minimal expenses of her simplistic life, she cultivates and sells fruits and flowers along with boarding dogs in her backyard kennel  (the dogs also serve as her means of protection). A  single woman living alone and providing for herself is extremely uncommon in this part of South Africa, and homosexuality is nearly unheard of , but despite these obstacles, Lucy is determined to independently make her way. At first she does  quite well and develops an amazing affinity to the majestic qualities of country life and a kinship with the souls of the animals everywhere. Strangely, Lucy seems to believe that she must atone for the sins that her ancestral generations committed against land and animals.  She attempts to persuade her city-loving father into embracing the simple, splendorous lifestyle she has found; and although he makes some concessions, he doesn't fully embellish the opportunity as she has. Soon after his arrival, father and daughter are attacked by three young black boys that disgrace David physically and Lucy sexually; taking from each their most prized attributes. Because of Lucy's quiescent response to the offence, David becomes frustrated and ironically attempts to persuade her to explain her rationale and pursue justice more vigorously.  She does not give in, really, and neither does he, really.  What they both learn, is that the morality of right and wrong is subjective to opinion.  <br />   Disgrace is not your typical novel, if you are looking for light, mindless entertainment- you wont be happy with this selection.  It is not the story of a father and his daughter, there isn't a lot of character development. Coetzee uses the characters in order to portray a bigger picture, it is a parable of sorts.  After reading this novel, I am constantly reminded of the old prayer \\"Grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change, change the things I can and the wisdom to know the difference.\\" Disgrace is a powerful portrayal of everyone's individual quest to obtain that wisdom.	2001-08-13
US	51021767	RUTIC2J4GDDAC	0312190301	690185410	A Cab Called Reliable: A Novel	Books	4	13	13	N	N	SANGUINELY SENSATIONAL	Perfect for those looking for something that straddles the line between light, romantic reading and soul invoking literature.  Patti Kim's first novel, \\"A Cab Called Reliable\\", offers a bit of both, and will certainly leave readers yearning for her next published work.  This short, coming of age novel tells the struggle of a young girl trying to find herself, her heritage, and her family.<br />Our spirited, slighted protagonist, young Ahn Joo, is left alone; her only semblance of guidance coming from a cantankerous, alcoholic father, who is more concerned with the stickiness of his rice than the well being of his family.  Tragically, this sweet, innocent girl is deserted not out of circumstances beyond anyone's control, but because the mother she reveres couldn't take it any more and simply left, taking Ahn's favored younger brother.   What follows is the story of a confused, prepubescent girl forced to manage something a grown woman was not capable of.  At the tender age of 9, Ahn Joo is not only expected to figure out how to become a successful, independent young woman; she is also is sidled with the task of raising a father, and making him into productive, member of American society.  She does both beautifully, though not without any growing pains.  Undergoing the trials and tribulations of maturing, Ahn Joo uncovers disturbing secrets of her ancestry, perplexing mysteries about herself - what she is supposed to be, and unnerving ideas regarding life in general.   The only one she can count on to resolve and make sense of these countless predicaments is herself.  All this while Ahn Joo constantly searches for a mother's love and acceptance that she sadly never finds.  Remarkably,  instead of using these numerous maladies that have plagued her life as an excuse not to prosper, she has the tremendous ability to turn them inward and develop her exceptional talent as a writer.<br />Some have criticized that this novel does not portray the average asian-American household in an avuncular light, or that it as not as ethnic as the typical Asian-American novel; but typicality is over-rated. `A Cab Called Reliable is real.   Certainly the characters in this novel do not fulfill the average American's typecast of the generic immigrant Asian, but that makes this wonderful work all the more interesting and much more endearing.   The author has the ability to appeal to multiple nationalities, transcend the hurdles of racism and relate to all readers, no matter what provenience they possess.  <br />Upon reading this novel, one can't help but catch the eccentric, lively spirit and optimism of Ahn Joo.  With it's completion, you may be a little stronger, a bit wiser and more ready to tackle your greatest obstacles.  The reader will have renewed faith in the ideal that patience and perseverance can heed astounding results, even if it doesn't bestow the story book endings you set out to find.	2001-06-25
US	51021767	RC8OFA8U17C2G	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Incredulously Inefficient	As childish and immature of a description that is, it is very befitting of this foolish novel...I am honestly baffled this work was even published. What is even further infuriating is that this immature piece of work made it to the best seller list simply because Oprah chose it for her 'book club'!...Not only was the story simple and un-artistic, I was insulted by the superficiality the reader is forced to accept and appalled at the constant stero-typical generalizations. <br /> The story line consists of a young southern girl's struggle with Turret's Syndrome, who attempts to mature and grow, while battling with an illness that no one recognizes because the town is filled with un-educated poor southern farmers. She is ostracized by the paltry population of her little town- Poplar Hollar, the only people she talks to are her old, hickish grand parents, and a gigantic fat woman that has secret southern charm of the educated middle class. The largest problem being, I was never sure if it was ABOUT a ten year old...I thought the language simple. the plot un-motivational, the character's un-inspiring, and was shocked...I was expecting to gain insight into he unknown realm of a relatively infantile neuro-tragedgy, but was horrified by the broad stereotypes it enforced; For example, in the preface of the story- the author hints at explanations for Icy being the way she was; 1- her mamma ate too many crab-apples during pregnancy and the other being her father having some ridiculous car accident involving chickens, both rationalizations equally farcical and ignorant. <br /> The only redeeming quality of this book was the epilogue, ...her writing style here is more in-depth and less superficial..., but as for Icy Sparks, it should never have made it out of Icy Creek.	2001-05-14
US	51021767	R2MIK3EJVKZ0W9	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	3	14	17	N	N	These are things I know are true...	While this opening line of the preface is engaging, the promise of such entrapment is never fulfilled.  Disappointingly, as the story of `The Bonesetter's daughter' unfolds, the novel continues to lose the aspect of it's initial charm and quiet grace.  I wouldn't say that I am sorry to have read this book, I simply expected to walk away from it with a lot more than I did.<br />     The author, Amy Tan, unleashes her latest novel (said to be somewhat autobiographical) in three distinct parts  The first being told from the voice of a 30something, Chinese, American, Ruth Young.  The main points of Ruth's own life, her annual voicelessness, her relationship with a live in boyfriend and his children, her flighty and superficial best friend, her annoying mother and  her flamboyant publisher,  are set up to be significant in the basis of this novel.  The only one richly explored is the relationship with her annoying mother and her mother's ancient, secretive ancestry, which is the focus of the second part of this tale.  The reader and Amy discover the secrets of her mother's traumatic and tragic childhood in China (before and during the Second World War), and her immigration to so-called American freedom.  The final part tells of what Ruth does with her newly acquired knowledge of her ancestral past and how it changes both her feelings towards her mother and her own life.   <br />  Critics complained that `Bonesetter's Daughter' was too `Americanized', and they are correct.  Tan attempts to incorporate two very different styles of writing in this book; one of authentic, cultural memoirs and the sultry, everyday experience of the modern American novel. If you are looking for something similar to the beautiful wisdom of popular titles such as `Memoirs of a Geisha', you will be disappointed as this is only a small part of what makes up this book.  If you are after a style similar to the types of work that continuously make Oprah's list, you may be a little more satisfied- butnot fully as the novel doesn't fully explore the relationships that make up this alternate plot. There are parts that are as charming and delightful as the preface alludes to, but not many.  I believe that Tan is a gifted author and has the ability to do great work, I just don't think it was adequately displayed here. `Bonesetter's Daughter' had too many loose ends, too many questions left unanswered and explored too many sub-plots to be truly enjoyable.	2001-04-01
US	51021767	R1YIMAN72I79WK	0380732149	398450731	On the Occasion of My Last Afternoon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A talented tale of a delightful, not 'proper' Southern lady	In this novel, the protagonist-Emma- is clearly defined, characterized and introduced. Yet I am not certain of the intended antagonist; whether it was the cruel and obnoxious character she called father, or the honest harshness of the Old South and the Civil war or simply the frigidness of life itself.  Regardless, all played a role in the shaping of a strong, simple, independent woman living in a time when such a woman was not politically correct. In this novel, we are privy to Emma Garnet's dying thoughts of reflection; on the occasion of her last afternoon in a world that has shown her cruelty, deception , garishness and agonizing love.  The complexity and duplicity of her character is alluded to simply by her name- Emma Garnet.  The name Emma conveys something classical, romantic and fragile and then is quickly followed by Garnet, something hard, strong, rigorous and yet somehow delightfully alluring. The protagonist proves to be all of these. We explore her childhood and familial relationships that make her into the person she is.  As the daughter of a Southern plantation owner, Emma is influenced by her studious, yet estranged brother in the North to read and become more self educated, she learns love and devotion from her real mother, as well as a surrogate mother; the family's free  black woman named Clarice.  Because Clarice knows the deep secrets of her father's boyhood, she is the only person who has any control over the unruly, pretentious, morbid  behavior of a man that believes in the Confederacy and  does not want a daughter who communizes with the slaves, attempts to gain knowledge  and basically is not interested in becoming a proper Southern lady.  Luckily, Emma Garnet is couted by a man from the north-Dr. Quincy Lowell- a fair, just and contemporary man whom she soon marries.  Once free from the constrictions of her father, Quincy teaches Emma Garnet to love, to trust and to overcome, he also teaches her how to become a doctor and a surgeon duringthe Civil War when young men were in dire need of medical assistance.  Emma Garnet and her family are also influenced and often ridiculed by their fair and partial treatment of the `slaves' that they own.  They are overjoyed at the culmination of the Civil War and the freedom of their black friends, but at the same time- they are stranded with the running of a household and hospital with none of their recently freed friends to help them.  <br />Although it's been blamed for being predictable, the vitality of the characters and the closeness the reader develops with them makes this novel well worth the reading time invested.  The talented author, (Kaye Gibbons), sufferes from mental illness and said to be in a state of hypomania when writing this work of art- I guess this may have lent faith to the duplicity of the character but certainly did not negatively impact this book in the least, maybe this state is when Ms. Gibbons does her best work.  I was moved by the characters, my heartstrings were tugged countless times,  I admired Emma Garnet's strength, wisdom and perseverance. I empathized with her struggle to overcome tragedy and defeat; whether it be to dealing with her father, learning to become a doctor or being taught how to be a housewife in the course of one evening. The language reminded me of the aesthetically pleasing Gothic novels of  Charlotte Bronte and Emily Dickenson, and it was quite an easy read.  \\"On the Occasion of My last Afternoon\\" has a deep-set heart, soul and integrity, and I would most definitely recommend it.	2001-03-12
US	51021767	R1R7IYOOCCH5RQ	0140249990	353580944	The Basketball Diaries	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Raw, Rugged  and Romantic	I admire Jim Carroll for publishing this diary the best and most effective way possible- the whole and solid truth, not doctored with fairy tell endings or caviar dreams.  This book depicted what I would honestly believe to be the days of living on the streets and becoming a Heroin junkie in New York City in the late 60's.  <br />The truth was told and told passionatley and completley.  Pretty picturesque references were not painted, disturbing scenes not alluded to. If something needed to be said, it was - no matter how hard it may be for the reader to accept.  The most frightening thing about the entire diary is it allows you to see how easily this lifestyle can become your own, without really ever realizing or intending it to happen.  I think most of socitey considers heroin junkies moraless, disgusting, putrid and empty souls; but Jim allows you to see into thier world, live in thier minds and have empathy for thier lifestyle.  It sort of reminded me of 'A Clockwork Orange'; I viddy parallells between both protragonists and thier drogs.  However, Jim Carroll didn't sell out at the end.	2001-03-05
US	51021767	R5MYN2BWDWLWL	0140434135	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Positivley splendourous and ecclectically amusing!	This is the novel of young Catherine Morland, who comes into the unfortunate knowledge that reality does not consist of the fantastical realms literature represents it to be.  This youung girl learns the value - but dissapointment of friends, the glorious tragedies of society and the ecstacy and agaony of love.  Young Catherine takes us through her stay at the affluent city of Bath; with it's balls, theater and propietous atmosphere- her stay with friends at a mysterious, grand abbey and her trip back to her home.  The precious, innocent young girl that leaves for Bath is not the same one that auspicioulsy makes the journey home alone and grandoisly changed. <br />This book was funny, it was endearing, it was beutiful.  I enjoyed every page.  I came to know every character and inclusively feel like I was in Bath myself and aquaintances of these young, boisterous characters.  My only complaint is that it is trifingly similar to other novels by the author; but it is exquisite none the less. I whole heartedly enjoyed this novel and will love keeping it for my daughters!	2001-03-02
US	51021767	R29U3QEQKHNVPV	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tremendously powerful, agressive and enirely honest.	This book was beutifully written, and not in a flowery or traditional way.  It was angry, it ws brutally honest, it was somehow endearingly disturbing.  The author makes you think, reason, listen and question. I am so glad that I was able to get the edition with the last chapter not previously published in the US- but a word of advice: either get the book with a glossary or download the vocabulary from the internet because it makes the book that much more enjoyable.  Although at first, the dialog is a bit puzzling- if you look up a few key words you are able to easily follow it and somehow get caught up in the author's speak.   A malenky bit of beuty my friends!	2001-02-22
US	51021767	R3SO5SXHDTJ6MB	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Two sides to every story..	This was both sides of a tale about circumstance and how people can easily, drastically change thier lives with out really intending to, and with out having the oppurtunity to un-do what you never meant to do in the first place.  It told the story of a struggling, young woman and her fight for sobriety and to be treated fairly in a life she only recently respected; and of a once wealthy immigrant who struggles to provide himself and his family with the wealth and respect that they once knew.  Through carless mistakes by the state- these two families are drawn into battle over a house that was once given to Kathy but was now paid for by Behrani.  To Kathy- the house sybolizes happy memories of the past, which she is desperatly trying to hold on to. To Behrani- it is a symbol of his family's turn of fortune- his first step to getting them back to the life that was inadvertantly stolen from them when forced to flee thier mother country.  Without meaning too, these two main characters divide families, break hearts and basically lose everything they fight so hard to save.  <br />I thought this book was okay at best.  I did get a bit drawn in by the emotions of both stand points; but I never really felt strongly for any of the characters or any of the situations.   The author was a bit predictable at times, but was saved by a surprising, yet unbelievable, ending.  The book overall was a bit too over-dramatized for my taste, but it did a good job of making you realize how quickly you can be drawn into situations that can so quickly go into overdrive and get out of control. A definate C+ book.	2001-02-17
US	51021767	R3VXCH2LYQKXHM	0812567110	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A novel worth a thousand acclaims...	A tale of beuty, love, innocence and cruelty.  Wilde did a wonderful job of telling the story of young Dorian Gray, a timeless beuty that never shows his age and whose face never displays his sins.  He betrays close friends, is fuel for many a suicide, is down right cruel and unfeeling to any of his numerous loves, is selfish and self immersed; yet his young, beutiful face never shows a trace of ill being.  Being in a room with him, drowns anyone with pleasure, peacefulness and charm- it is impossible to look at his face and believe that someone so sweet and innocent in looks would commit any of the evil he is rumored to have done. Instead of himself being affected, a portait of him as a young man endures the strain of his uncouth behavior.<br />This timeless tale, set in England at the turn of the century, would be an excellent story line for any modern novel and would make a wonderful movie.  Wilde's writting style is proliferic, poignant and delightful.  It captures the language of the time period, yet was easy to read and easy to relate to.  Wilde conveys the evil of the aestetic world and how it can drive one to stop at nothing for fear of losing it.  And though he hints at such controversial topics such as drugs and homosexuality; it is neither detailed nor graphic; and is only slightly touched on.  Throughout the novel, Wilde creates an image and lets the reader fully develop it for himself.  I absolutley adored this book and highly reccomend it to anyone.  Not for a moment did I think it dull, or too wordy.  It is a very easy read (which is difficult to say of such a classic), and incredibly enjoyable.	2001-02-02
US	51021767	RRJWY31L7MEZO	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This book needs more heart!	The tragic tale of a young pregnant girl, left alone and penniless.  Young Novalee Nation soon finds out what it meant to grow up in body, mind and soul.  <br />It was pretty passionless and trivial, though you couldn't help but being a little drawn to Novalee and feeling almost proud of her.  The writing was pretty simple and feeble minded, ,maybe this author's later works will have a little more depth.  The book, was a little too sweetie for my taste- but if I was looking for a feel good book- this would be a good choice.	2001-01-30
US	51021767	R2CFZWB439RHTD	0679737383	770464925	Anywhere but Here	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Anybook but this one..	Grade: C-.  I found this book; shallow, predictable and petulant.  If you are into the mindless, repetitive episodes of 90210 than you would enjoy this book.  I'm not, so I didn't.  I thought the 'theme' (mother and daughter brave it alone and struggle for riches)was overplayed and overdone, I was not inspired to closeness with a single character of this book. This book lives up to all the stereotypes of a woman's gold-digging empiness and is so much what so many struggle not to be viewed as.  It almost made me think the novel was written by a man making fun of the inferior gender.  <br />At the end of this long and boring read, I was at least expecting the heroine to develop above the petty and supericial character of her mother; dispairingly, she never did.  This might be a good book to read if you just need the soothing aprodisiac of mind candy, but overall I would not reccomend it; I'd rather watch 90210.	2001-01-30
US	51021767	R2ASUXDUBUTRAC	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Entertaining but Episdoic	The novel tells of an African-American society in the 90's and the problems that they encounter. it deals with many controversial aspects in today's society (like sex, drugs, disease and death).  It tells the story of a twenty-something woman that is faced with HIV and a smattering of other tragedies.  Cleage depicts real life problems and situations that most in the 90's can relate to; if not from personal experience than second hand ones.<br />This book is very down to earth and doesn't paint a pretty picture of a rather gloomy situation.  I liked it because it wasn't fake, it wasn't pretentious nad it wasn't shallow.  But I thoght it a little too busy.   There were so many sub-stories within the larger one I often had to stop for a second to gain grounding.  It was a pretty short, light and an easy read.  I think the book could have been incredible if the numerous stories within the larger one were told in later episodes (or sequels to the novel).  I wanted to know more about each character and each situation.  For the most part the book was pretty predictable but it was an ineteresting and enlightening, almost unrealistic, depiction of our time.	2001-01-30
US	51021767	R6LTWR7B5HZDU	0452277175	999717966	Memories of My Ghost Brother	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Grade B+:Energetic, simple, curious and quaint!	The innocent, young voice of the author tells a tale of war from the prespective of those often overlooked- the children.  This was a story that told of death, destruction, sadness and poverty but somehow did it in an uplifting and positive way.  Never did I get the impression that the young boy felt sorry for himself nor his situation despite the fact that he rarely saw his father, had to watch his mother peddle on the black market and neighbors prostitute themselves.  He saw many strange and demoralizing things living near an American Airforce base during the Korean War; however his spirit never faltered.  You could almost see him smiling as he told his story; even though it was filled with the somber fates of many close friends and relatives.   In a world where death is an every-day experience; this young boy manages to grow, mature and develop into a cautious, but optomistic man.  <br />The story would be comparable to any classic tale of a boys journey into manhood; except this one is told in Korea, in the time of war, and from a boy who doesn't really fit in with his Korean surroundings,nor feel comfortable with the American part of his heritage.  The folklore stories told from his grandfather everytime he seemed to be faced with a problem- were fitting and made the novel more ethnic and appealing.  Although it lacked a lot of prtoagonist-antagonistic action, it was an entertaining and  quick read.  Through Heinz's experiences and feelings, I learned a bit about the Korean culture, and also got a first-hand account of the War in a way I never would have learned from a history book.	2001-01-21
US	51021767	R3MX7E08E71WJD	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This could never happen to me...	Yeah right.  That is what we would all like to think in our safe, secure little world.  When written, no one would pubish this astounding fantastic reality.  Mr. Orwell had to wait several years and suffer many dissapointments for anyone to accept and believe in his story.  Today, what once seemed 'science-fiction' is an all too true and fast becoming reality.  This book will make you question your reality, understand accpetance, empathize with institutionalism and wonder at how individualistic you really are -  despite your noblee attempts!<br />Although, at first intimidating, Orwell's style and nature soon becomes free and clear, and though it drags on at some parts; You won't stop reading untill you are done.  What seems hard to comprehend and language a few chapters to get used to.. you too will soon think in terms of newspeak and realize how easily it can happen to you too!	2001-01-18
US	51021767	R3E5NFJ3181NBP	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	VAMPIRES, POSSIBLE OF LOVE AND CARE?	That's shocking to even imagine as possible. One would never associate adjectives such as love, passsion, caring, nuturing and feeling with the evil-inspiring vampire.  But this author does it with talent, making it seem as ordinary and everyday as Hanzel and Gretel.  I was not intending to read this book, I usually don't like such blockbuster novels, but this surprised me.  I thought it started out a little slow and progression at first was almost painful, it ended up tremendously.  The abusridity and ironicness of this tale of Vampire love and despair makes it intriguing and interesting. <br />Anne Rice does a marvelous job of character development and takes us through the birth and maturity of a young Vampire.  Loius finds that thogh it takes only seconds to lose one's life; it takes half of an eternity to lose one's soul.  I will probably read her other novels in this series.	2001-01-08
US	51021767	R1MVUQW8CETOWC	0140283625	122319491	Once upon the River Love	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Artistic, Compelling and a little boring....	I am glad I read this book.  But it wasn't as good as I expected.  Makine's style has been compared to Sallinger's in 'Catcher in the Rye', but it isn't as good.  Maybe it just a different style of writting an essentially similar story.   I thought that although it conveyed and inspired passion in the reader; it lost some of it's flair in attemtping to be too lingually impressive.  The flowery, poetic language was a good way to tell this age-old boy growing into a man tale, but at times it was too flowery and too much.  Being one who appreciates the use of crafty language (such as Ms. Virginia Woolf), although I was mildly impresseed, I was sometimes confused.  <br />The story line itself is not unique.  The enviroment the boys grow in is.  This novel provided an inside look at what outsiders think to be a cold, angry, unlivable terrain-- Siberia.  I was amazed at Makine's ability explain the beauty of such a place, and it interested me to envision one growing up there. He was able to make me feel like I was visiting this odd town- so that was cool.  The story wasn't very moving, the characters weren't too connectable.  It took a really long time to tell a really short story.    I liked expanding my Russian experience, but I was lost at certain parts of this novel.  Some instances seemed to drag and be over-done but I guess that is typical of the place where the boys lived.  I enjoy many Russian novelists and might have been expecting a little too much with this work.  Overall, I would read it again, but it wasn't one of my favorites.	2001-01-08
US	51021767	R2Y0Y8NYPTJPCP	0140133488	520261516	Crossing to Safety	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The heartbreaking, and heartwarming beuty of friends	This seemingly melodramtic novel was a hear catching story on the value and truism of real, true. life-long frineds. The kind that we all hope to have, and hope to be one day in our later lives.  The story was endearing, captivating, the author made the characters very symbolistic as well as emotionally drawing.  I identified with the story and the people in it. I laughed, I cried, I read it in two days. It explored the value of friendship mixed with the realism that though we might not have time to see our real friends for months, years, decades.. the seed of friendship never dies and can be rekindled with a simple hello.  <br />I would read this book several times over and give it to anyone I consider a true and forever friend.	2001-01-05
US	51021767	R3GNN0L1NNXES7	0316898163	508044138	River, Cross My Heart : A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Charming, touching and exceptional	Brenna Clarke must have had some real experience with death. Only this would allow her to right such a truthfull, soul wrenching and heartfelt novel.  The story about a young girl and her courage, perserverance and struggle to deal with the guilt and pain associated with passing is truly unique and extremly on-point.  It took a very difficult and emotional subject (the death of a child) and in the end made it educational, positive and almost uplifting.  <br />It was also very interesting to learn more about life in Georgetown during this time (especially being from the DC Area).  It was so ironic to learn that what is now the epitomy of hoity=toity yupiness in the DC metro area; originally regined as the lower-class (god forbid) black area.  I admitt that since reading this I walked throught the streets of Gtown and up and down the Canal looking for the house of these girls and trying to see if I could spot the exact spot of the tragedy!  I guess that says a lot for the author's descriptivness through-out the novel and the emotional bond that develops between reader and characters.  I would most highly recommend this charming, quick and enjoyable read.	2000-12-31
US	51021767	R2EYKYX138ES8T	0807845477	139235890	Hiroshima Diary: The Journal of a Japanese Physician, August 6-September 30, 1945	Books	4	28	30	N	N	How the Japanese overcome despair- educational and touching	This is an accurate and first-hand account of the bombing of Hiroshima as well as the Japanese attitude during World War II.  Although medical in nature, I did not find this book at all overwhelming or too scientifically detailed. It was a quite easy read and allowed me to relate the Japanese citizens of this traumatic period.<br />More than a medical documentation, this was a dramatic tale of real people, real situations and real feelings.  Surprisingly, it was not depressing and did not leave me riddled with guilt over being an American.  I was impressed by the heroic acts of regular Japanese citizens and dumbfounded over their undying allegience to thier plight and country; AT the same time they did not express morosness or hatred twords the incoming American soldiers- instead they welcomed them as notable collegues and almost friends.  Despite the disparity of thier people and thier country they were able to see past all feelings of disdain and recogize that the most important thing was family, love and friendship.  In addition to it being a beutiful story, I also gained vast knowledge of the effects of radiation and the Atomic bomb-- a seemingly gaurded secreat amoungst American history lessons.	2000-12-12
US	51021767	R36VBT9JAHQLQ4	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	4	5	9	N	N	THE NOVEL THAT PROVED MS. WOOLF'S BRILLIANCY..	A story of immense porportions to be celebrated and admired by countless future generations.  I believe this novel is one of the few that has the amazing ability to be deemed a masterpiece hundreds of years after it is created.  It also is one that has more to offer upon every reading.  The novel is so complex and challenging that although I enjoyed it immesly the first time- the second and third I was able to associate the deeper meanings and appreciate the artistic, innovative writting style.<br />The first book I had read by this author (To the Lighthouse) left me much dissapointed with Ms. Woolfe.  But I started to read 'The Hours' (which you must read if you have read this!) and found to best appreciate that book, I had to read this one first.  I was pleasantly surprised to find such a unique and touching novel.  I related to it on so many different levels; to so many different characters.  Being a woman, I empathized with the struggle of Clarissa in her day of preparation and understood the insecurities she may have felt with her life choices but never would display to others.  <br />The authors clever writting style and literary genius was evident in this novel.  I know there may be many that don't appreciate Ms. Woolfe's talent= but if nothing else one must ascede that her manipulation of language is extraordinary.  Ms. Dalloway is almost sung off the pages of the book, I felt like I was getting a buetiful renoir painted before my eyes when reading.  I admit, that it is a book best enjoyed upon re-reading but it is so worth the investment!  After this, I am excited to go back and read the dreaded 'To the Lighthouse' and maybe find somethings with in that I  may have missed.  I would definitley suggest reading this book first as it wasn't as monotnous and may better aquaint you with Ms. Woolf's style in order to better understand other works.  And don't forget- if you liked this book- you will really enjoy 'THE HOURS'	2000-12-11
US	51021767	R24HT6FVXAASWW	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Modern Day Mrs. Dalloway- AN EXCEPTIONAL MASTERPIECE	Oh, what a wonderful and etopic work of art! -and even if you've seen the movie, read it anyway.  The best advice I can give anyone.. READ MRS. DALLOWAY FIRST!... If you don't you will miss out on all the beutiful inuendos and mirror imaging of The Hours. I had not read the aforesaid work when I started this, in fact- before this book I despised Virginia Woolf- but I forced my self to stop reading 'The Hours' and complete Ms. D and what a great decision! I read, enjoyed and admired Mrs. Dolloway, reading it first made me better appreciate Cunningham's style, message and plot, I felt like I was in on a little secret shared only by me and the author!<br />The best thing about the Hours is that it shows us how similar our lives our to our seemingly ancient, outdated and foreign ancestors. It it truly is a modern day version of Virginia's masterpiece and is totally intertwined with it. I think Michael Cunningham was in cahoots with Virginia's spirt when he wrote this! I so believe that if she were here to read this, she would endorse, celebrate and embrace 'The Hours'. After reading it, I have a better understanding of Woolf's writting style and was better able to appreciate other works of hers. More importanlty, I have a better understanding of the circle of life.<br />Cunningham's tribute to Ms. Woolf was admirable and amazing. But his own talent eminated through this novel as well. He has incredible communicative skills and was able to tie three seperate and seemingly polar lives in such a creative and dramatic way. I was impressed by his talent and ablility to take contraversial topics (such as AIDS and homosexuality) and make them so ordinary and everday. It appeals to so many different classes, ages, genders, ideologies- It captivates so many audiences that I believe anyone who reads it will appreciate and relate to it's theme and characters. Most importantly, I think this novel shows us that even though every generation thinks themselves and thier struggles isolated and individualistic, really we are all the same. It made me realize that what I go through now, my great grandmother went through a hundred years ago and my great grandchildren will essentially go through 100 years from now. As much as we think WE have changed; really the only thing that has really changed is the hours that have passed.	2000-12-11
US	51021767	RF6P5AVPQT8WS	0061099341	757036024	As the Crow Flies	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Jeffrey Archer- the honest, awesome author!	This epic novel was charming, compelling and rich with emotion.  It is the closest thing to modern day Dickenson that I have ever read, and yet I daresay- possibly even a step above old Charles. The novel is fast moving, heart warming and spirit inspiring.  It was the first work of Mr. Archer's that I had encountered,and I can assure you that after this little prize - I will be enthusiatically  delving in to other novels to see what other literary jewels this man has produced.<br />The story itself was unique and powerful.  It told the tale of a generation of honesty. love and hard work.  These values eminated throughout the novel and it's characters.  I really enjoyed every page of this tale and only wish I could find out waht is happening next in the lives of the whole Trumper clan.  The book gave me hope and honor for all the human race.  I knew there were still moral, good and decent people left in this world!!	2000-11-12
US	51021767	R2G9WFD2KE0QU4	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	2	3	8	N	N	I hope her other novels are better than this	I find it hard to believe this is one of the best novels ever.  Perhaps it's meaning was lost on me.. but I really did not enjoy this novel.  I had to struggle to complete it.  I was very dissapointed with the author and her over- monotonous, boring style.  It seems that this novel could have adequatley been told as a short story and would have only lost it's monotone and repetitive nature.  I kept looking for the literary genius buried deep within- but unfortunatley I never found it.	2000-11-12
US	51021767	R2RQU33BR114JO	0060930527	592171238	Paper Daughter: A Memoir	Books	5	2	3	N	N	UNPARALLED, EXQUISITE, MOVING AND AGGRESSIVE	This has to be one of the best books I have ever read.  I can't give enough acclimation to the author and her emotional tale.  This book touched my heart, my soul, my mind and all sense that I have for people raised in the cross-cultural enviroment.  <br />The author, obviously of high intelligence starts the novel as she finishes it; captivatingly touching.  I was so impressed with the amount of knowledge I gained from reading this novel, and seriously affected by each family member portrayed.  I gained understanding of life, family,  and the extreme difference between the American Way and the Chineese philosophy.  The attention and beuty the author devoted to every aspect made for a passionate and sensous book that I highly reccomend it to anyone that can read!!	2000-11-06
US	51021767	R1DJYF4VDY09QS	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Insightful, Inspriational and Brilliantly written!!	THIS BOOK WELL DESERVES TO BE ON THE LIST OF 100 BEST BOOKS EVER!<br />It should be read by every highschool and college curriculum!  It would be well worth reading over and over again. It touches a part of every human soul and gives insight into economical, cutltural and humanistic differences.  <br />The book is brilliantly written and as well as being an inspirational story for all mankind, provides a historical insight to the time period which may not be documented in thje text books.  I was amazed by how simple, yet outstanding this story was.  It provides a different look at our world than that which was familiar to me and serves as a window into emotions and minds of personalities and people growing up in the 60's.  It parallels race, gender and age and relates to so many different aspects of American Society.  The mother serves as an icon for motherhood, love, religion and it is unbelievable that such an astounding person is not fictional.  The author takes us through the struggle and dispairment of his childhood and search for himself and his family in such a powerfully emotional style.  Through all of the tribulations he faced, I always felt his extreme love of family and humanity.  It is undeniably one of the classics of our time!!	2000-10-12
US	51021767	R2QBGFHIS1ZH4R	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	One of the Masterpieces of Our Time!	This book is definitley one everyone should read once a lifetime.  It is beutiful, witty and deep yet surprisingly easy to read!<br />I thought this book would be one of the more challenging I have read, and I put off reading it for a few months after I got it- but I wished I hadn't.  The story was unbelievably touching, the character devolpment extraordinary and zealous- How much I wanted to reach out and just spend ONE DAY with these girls.  Kinglsover is a genius writer and I can't read to read the next one of her books on my list.  The theme, timeless and tireless- was the backbone of such a spectacular work of literary art.  I am sure that future generations will look back on this as a masterpiece of our time and being read in Highscool English Classes.	2000-10-12
US	51021767	R13YC82O7TJKGN	0679769447	730199624	What Girls Learn: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a good young adult novel- quite predictable...	I thought this novel had a nice story line, good character development but I also found it basic and boring at times.<br />Though I appreciated the emotional aspect of such a work, it was very predictable for the avearge person. I think I would have enjoyed it more had I read it in highschool and not been so familiar with tragedy and real life situations.  I thought it was pretty simplistic and didn't keep me very motivated to continue. It was a good quick and easy read though- it was easy to follow and did reach a somewhat emotional level.  Given the subject matter I felt it would have been a bit deeper, I never got the raw emotion feeling that I was expecting.	2000-10-12
US	51021767	R2A8KPQGKOMRNF	0060928514	566760187	Lying on the Couch: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	YOU COULD FINISH THIS BOOK IN ONE COUCH SESSION!	I really enjoyed the dynamics of this book and appreciated the easy writting style! It was a great change of pace from the literature and classics that I usually read with out being overly soap-operish.  I thought that the book intuitvley explored relationships at many dimensions and in many situations.  It was an interesting point that the best of the best can so easily decieved.  I have often wondered if a therapist would know if a patient was lying or not.  I thought the book was well written and easy to get into.  I don't think there was anyone that could not relate to one of the many characters at some level.  I liked how, in every person, the good and bad sides of that character were revealed.  The book was pretty rivoting and susspenceful, though I thought that one of the characters we had grown to know and love would somehow come out to be the villan- and that was a little dissapointing- but overall- I really enjoyed this book. It was great to bring the revered 'doctors' down to our level to realize that they really aren't too much different from the people that come to them for help!	2000-10-07
US	51021767	RIPUWZJNFH4TK	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Dispairingly Disappointing	Delving into this book, I expected much more from it than what I got.  I expected it to be morose and a bit dimented- I had heard such rave reviews, I expected a better understanding of the grief suffered by the suicidal as well as family and friends.  Because I have lost a close friend to this tragedy, I expected to be able to somewhat relate to family and friends of the girls- This didn't happen.  I more felt that the author was familiar with what a 'textbook suicide' was about- than really understanding such devastating and demoralizing sadness, anger and confusion that goes along with this tragedy.<br />The story was an interesting one, we know from the beginning what the outcome will be and I didn't see much point for the wasted pages in between.  I thought the story development was poor and there wasn't a single character I could really 'feel'. The sisters seemed so underdevoloped that it was hard for me to keep track of who was who and who did what. Much attention was paid to Lux and Cecilia and little to the other sisters. In fact, I think I better knew the callous mother than Mary, Bonnie or the other sister whose name slips my mind.  I didn't expect a window into the suicidal mind, but I also didn't expect such lack of emotion. It just said the family was shutdown more so than it was before. The author confused me at times because in the introduction of the family- before the first suicide; he gave the family the image of overall dispair.  It gave the overall family picture one of drearness from the day the girls were born. Later in the story the author seemed to try to paint a picture of 'happy and gay' family times- but he never explained when these times occured.  <br />I think sometimes, people are to quick to dubb something morbid, masterful; maybe to appear that they have a better understanding of something complex.   The overall feeling I got from the book was dispassionate.  The attitudes towards the final act seemed one of indifference. The book to me, seemed more about the boys obsession with the girls, than their troubles, the suicides or dealing with such turmoil.  Perhaps a better (and less misleading title) would have been &quot;Our Virgin Obsession&quot;	2000-10-02
US	51021767	R22TBO906YNJ8R	0345423291	580214343	What We Keep: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A MUST READ FOR ANYONE THAT HAS A MOTHER!	...wheather you are close to your mom or have never met her before, this book will help explore, understand, respect and accept the relationships between mother and child.  I am not a mother yet, but after reading this book - I have more understanding and respect for what my mother had to go through and what she had to give up.  I called her the minute after finishing it and told her how much I loved and appreciated her! <br />Elizabeth Berg intimatley involves us with her characters, the reader comes to know the family extra-ordinally well.  You will completley feel the emotions of the young sisters as well as the adult versions of the pair.  I have never read any of her other books, but am anxious to do so now.  I thought the story was well written and much better than I had expected going into the book.  I completed it in one afternoon if that says anything!<br />Every mother and daughter would greatly benefit from reading this book.  It brings us to a closer understanding of eachother -reminds moms of how things are for their young children and gives forsight into a mommies mind for those that haven't had their own kids yet!  It was a wonderful reminder that sometimes we go through so much hurt and pain - and often we don't know the real reasons why- and don't take the time to find out.  We miss out on so much sometimes and dwell on what we have lost- but we have to remember that what we lost is not important- what matters is what we keep.	2000-09-23
US	51021767	R17XLGSEN422YK	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An exquisite novel, only the naive would not admire!!!	The content and reputation of this novel is immoral, perverted, twisted and deplorable, yet through Nabakov's insidious pen - a true reader comes to appreciate this amazing work of art.  Only a scholar of immeasurable talent could induce his audience to have sympathy and even endearment toward the vile protragonist Humbert Humbert- Lolita accomplishes this.  The writting was masterful, poetic and enchanting; although I find a grown man's love for a child, or 'nymph'unfathomable- I was captivated and moved by this book.  I believe it to be one of the best I have ever read due to the abilities of this author.   Despite the fact that Hum seduced, deflowered and decieved young Delores, one could not help but be touched by his transcendant love and adoration.  The novel was less pornographic than celebrated works such as 'Lady Chatterly's Lover' and if one can only overcome the initial stigmatism associated with the idea of Lolita, they will find a tremendous and eloquent masterpiece!	2000-09-21
US	51021767	R3T3EKE8R56A90	0520214242	3252556	Lost Names: Scenes from a Korean Boyhood	Books	3	4	9	N	N	A nice story though hard to get into	The story was simple and it was an easy and somewhat captivating read.  Though I felt the author could have been a little more emotional, I liked the novel and am glad to have read it.  I feel the characters were a little under-developed and the story line jumped around many of times, leaving out things I thought would have increased the connection between reader and character.	2000-09-21
US	51021767	R1KD618FM1P7JH	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	11	12	N	N	THIS BOOK SHOULD BE REQUIRED READING AT EVERY HIGHSCHOOL!	I was not forced to read this in higschool; I was not forced to read it in  college where I took several literature classes.  It's a shame it took me  so long to discover such a masterpiece and I wish I could go back to make  this novel more influential throughout my ENTIRE life.   The magical  realism of this novel is unbelievable.  It leads to a very exciting epic  journey into the livliehood of hundreds of years in generation after  generation of a family. The passion of the author seeps through it's every  page.   I believe it was a descriptive account of the feelings a young boy  had growing up in Columbia through all of it's governmental changes; and  how it changed his life in such a way to be able to write such a moving  work of art.     I believe it speaks to all of us, that we can all identify  with SOMEOME in the book, and is a portrayal of what we all come to know as  a familial circular history.  As sad and tragic as it may be sometimes.  I  can definitley say that this book changed my perspective and thinking in  some ways and I only wish I had had the experience earlier.	2000-09-04
US	51021767	R33H6JAWU9UDOZ	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Not as good as I expected...	I had heard wonderous reviews from friends about this novel, but about a  third of the way through, I knew I was going to be dissapointed.  I did not  find this book mind nor soul stimulating; which being a woman I thought the  subject alone would move me in such a way- it did not.  Though it did move  rather quickly, I thought the writting style was simplistic and  uncaptivating. The story itself was intriguing but there were parts that I  felt were meaningless to the rest of the story line and can't understand  why they were injected, the character development was good- but I never  REALLY got to know these people.  I never really cared too much and more  found it a chore to complete this novel.  I thought it was evident that the  author was not a female as the protragonist's  behavior seemed based more  on the STEREOTYPE of a teenage girl rahter than the thoughts that ACTUALLY  go through thier minds.  Most of all, I thought this book was sadly  damaging to the field of midwifery, that is just my layman's opinion.. but  it definitley convinced me to never risk an at-home birth.	2000-09-04
US	51021767	R1128YTI1D6SKR	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Though apprehensive about reading such a popular, trendy and gossipy book, I am glad I was persuaded to go with my initial approach! I believe that  Berendt was a bit wordy at times, and the story seemed to drag a bit at  certain points; but overall I found the book captivating and well-written.  The amount and development of characters was inticing and led to the  overall charm and appeal of the novel.  I can definitley understand why it  was made into a movie.  Definitley a quick and easy read- excellent for  summer reading.  I can't wait to go to Savannah and look  for the souls of  Jim and his cronies (with the help of Minerva of course!)	2000-08-05
