US	51039269	R1VHA1VLZYDBKI	0966665732	481731618	Pagan Christianity: The Origins of Our Modern Church Practices	Books	5	85	97	N	N	Excellent, simple, but I agree in part with critics	First of all, let me say that Frank's book, Pagan Christianity, is a must read!  It's scholarly without being complex or too wordy and it's a fair examination of historical reality.  I do have a few critical remarks of my own, however, they are minor critiques.  This book is excellent!  Worth the five stars I gave it.  If you are looking for an easy-to-read resource chronicling the origins of modern-day church practices, this is your book!  This is one book that will be read again and again and the subject of and resource for many a conversation on the matter of this phenomenon we might well call \\"churchianity\\". <br /> <br />Having said that, I have to say that I also agree (in part) with some of the book's critics and those who loved this book shouldn't feel threatened or angred by the sub-5-star reviews.  Viola's work here, I must agree, is perhaps not quite the caliber of a history text book (so I can't say it's the be-all/end-all resource of resources - though it comes close at times).  While there are scores of references in footnotes on every page, it should be noted that a number of the books mentioned are simply references to other authors who happen to draw the same conclusions as Frank - and not necessarily well-known historians or scholars on the subject.  That does not make them less-valuable and neither does this mean they are not accurate statements.  I simply mean to convey that the critics have a legitimate point of critique here.  The book bills itself as being \\"fully footnoted\\" as if footnotes alone equal irrefutable evidence.  To boasts like this, I must say, \\"Frank please, we can do without the manipulation sales pitch buddy.\\" ;) <br /> <br />Please understand, I have studied much of this subject myself and (though I am no historian expert myself) I do happen to agree with the vast majority of Frank's conclusions in this book and feel they are historically accurate (this is why I wholly recommend this book as a trustworthy resource - not to mention really one of the only books of its kind ever produced), but for technicality's sake, some of the critics comments are justified in the sense that this book is written at more of a high school level.  But then, Viola himself would tell you this is the point. <br /> <br />A college textbook is not usually much fun to read for the common person and not many would take the time to bother... Not to mention that most people aren't interested in searching through 200 different manuscripts and technical jargon to try and piece together a comprehensible answer to their question. ;)  Frank does his audience a HUGE favor by summarizing the details and he does an excellent job in my opinion. <br /> <br />Yes, I will agree, there are a few places where he probably could have elaborated more and examined a broader reference of Scripture (I agree with the reviewer who said he would have liked to see an examination of 1 Timothy chapter 5; as indeed this passage in often used by professional preachers to justify ministry salaries).  Yes, there are a couple of places in the book where Frank inserts his personal presumptions, though I personally think these are minor details (and to be expected in any book by any author).  For example, in one place he makes mention that Abraham's tithe in Genesis was voluntary - yet Scripture does not confirm this presumption (in fact history reveals that it is more likely Abraham was following Arab custom of the day).  There are no footnotes to cross-reference on some of these minor points of presumption, but these don't detract from the main point of the book; nor do they discredit it.  In fact some are rather insightful and, at the very least, thought-provoking.  Yes, there are places that I think would have benefitted from Frank not seeming to presume that house church folks (or those who have read other sources on the same topic or his previous books) would be reading his book.  I've watched the reaction of some clueless folks who see the title alone and become disinterested (you would think the title would provoke the opposite effect - but that's the way us out-of-church folks tend to think now that we're out of the \\"system\\" and I think Frank falls into this trap a bit as well). <br /> <br />I would have to disagree with the reviewer that thinks the book loses focus at the end.  On the contrary I think the book ends appropriately.  Frank doesn't use this particular book in his series to push his personal home church views, rather he simply gives the goods to the reader to leave them introspecting and laying their thoughts and concerns before the Lord.  Rather than telling them what to do - i.e. giving his solution (as so many \\"Christian\\" topic books do)- Frank blesses his readers by encouraging them (somewhat indirectly) to press in to the Lord and wait on Him for direction.  I love that!  It's what sets this book in the solid 5 star category because it's only agenda is to present an accurate historical summary of how most of our modern-day church practices came into existence and briefly why many of these are harmful to the Christian's spiritual growth and maturity and relationships with other believers in the body of Christ.  If you want to know more about his views on \\"church planting\\", you can always buy another one of his books, but he doesn't tackle that beast here (and I'm glad because I personally challenge the concept Frank titles \\"the church planter\\" anyway - but that's another matter for another time). <br /> <br />The book is just tops and I would easily say a must read!  While it's easy for some to complain, one might consider the fact that probably none of these critics have taken the time to present a better work.  Frank clearly did his homework and, in my humble opinion, has done a great service to the body of Christ!  Christians ought to read this book if they are sincerely hungry for truth, not just tradition.  Too many things Christians call \\"holy\\" and \\"sacred\\" are such only becauseman has dared called his concepts \\"ordained by God\\" when nothing could be further from the truth.  The knowledge this kind of book equips the reader with (even if it's on a more basic level) will aid a believer by helping them to recognize potential religious manipulation and fallacy.  Most of all, it will help to remind us that Christ alone should be at the center of our lives - not religious institutions, rituals, formulas, programs, clergy, or anything else.  Christ alone must have the preeminence!  God bless you all and keep you free in Christ Jesus! <br />	2005-03-22
US	51039269	R3BFH71ELYK2UV	0345306600	18448513	The Healing Light	Books	1	39	87	N	N	Metaphysical, New Age Mysticism - Christians BEWARE!!!	It is my opinion that Christians need to be wary of books of this nature and also by this author.  The concepts smack of New Age mysticism and metaphysical thought.  It's all mixed with Christian verbiage and scripture to give the naive reader the impression that the concepts herein are biblical, but careful examination of the text reveals great doctrinal problems.  This is, in the opinion of this reviewer, a deceptive book.  The author may be sincere and a nice person, but I believe she is sincerely deceived.  Christians should steer clear.<br />Agnes draws from the teaching that says there are certain laws in nature that God has ordained and, basically, a Christian just needs to learn to tap into these laws to see results - even miracles.<br />This kind of teaching is creeping into many religious circles around the world, especially the increasingly prominent \\"prophetic\\" and \\"Charismatic\\" movements.  Please understand, I personally believe in the prophetic (as it is described in Scripture) and I believe in the gifts of the Spirit (as they are taught in Scripture).  I am not anti-Charismatic, per say; however, I recognize that many in the modern-day Charismatic movement are getting off into strange doctrines, even New Age heretical teachings.  Even one of the most popularly recognized modern-day prophets in the Charismatic movement (whose name I will not mention here), once admitted to seeing auras on people (and excercised this ablity in his \\"prophetic\\" ministering) and that the methods used in astrology and New Age thought actually originated with God.  This man also encouraged reading books by the Sanfords.<br />Christians please be careful.  Deception isn't deception unless it's deception.  People who are being deceived don't realize they are being deceived; that's why it's called deception.  If nothing else, I am suggesting you beware and on the alert if you are going to read this book or any book that deals with this topic.  It sounds smooth and there is positive testimony included to give the impression that this must be \\"of God\\" because it has worked for some people.  Remember, Occult practices also work for many of the people that engage in them.  That does not make them biblical or godly.  Just because Scripture is used (a verse here and there) does not make something doctrinally-sound either.  The Mormons use Scripture, so do the Jehovah's Witnesses, so do Christian Scientists, so do many popular cults and even some Satanists.  The Word of God must be embraced in its full and complete context.<br />God bless you all and keep you in the way of truth.	2003-06-24
US	51039269	RM82ESKRZKY3Y	0930464702	199405456	Tithing and the Church	Books	1	20	31	N	N	Chalk another one up for the traditional, non-biblical view!	Ugh!  I don't think I have the energy to write another review of books like this that just push traditional opinions rather than honestly and thoroughly examine Scripture.<br /><br />Please do yourself a great favor; Don't waste your time with this book.  Get a copy of Russell Earl Kelly's book, \\"Should The Church Teach Tithing,\\" or \\"Beyond Tithes And Offerings,\\" by Michael and Mitchell Webb.<br /><br />If you don't mind admitting that you are set in your ways and are just looking for titles to agree with your opinion (whether or not they agree with clear Scripture), then buy Gary's book.  But if you're a sincere student of the Word of God, I encourage you to get your hands on some real research materials and start doing your homework.  In my own studies I was initially shocked to find out how many respected resource works and ministries there are that do not support the concept of tithing money to a local church as being a biblical mandate (including names like Spiros Zodhiates, Richard Lenski, C.I. Scofield, Walter A. Elwell, The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, Chuck Swindoll, Charles Ryrie, and tons more!)  If you search the Web for my TruthForFree website or e-mail me, you can read some of my own research in this area.<br /><br />Tithing money to finance institutionalized churches is absolutely unheard of in the New Testament and the first couple of centuries of church writings.  In fact, a few of the early church fathers specifically pointed out that tithing was not to be a guideline to motivate Christian giving.  The whole thrust of tithing doctrine gathers its strength from Romanistic influence!  This is an historical fact!  It wasn't until the Roman Emporer Constantine launched his grand religious building schemes that tithing was imposed as a formal requirement.  The practice did not become popular in Protestant groups until about 700 years after Calvary!!!<br /><br />Russell's book will draw attention to historical resources like these and all of his work is documented so that you can follow along and do the research yourself.<br /><br />Gary is pushing traditional opinion, not engaging a biblical study here.  You decide what is important to you.	2002-07-25
US	51039269	R2NEJDP58L37UG	0785269916	76347748	Under Cover: The Promise of Protection Under His Authority	Books	2	237	284	N	N	Typical covering theology... Some good points.	John Bevere, I believe, is a sincere man of God who intends to encourage God's people with biblical truth; however, on this subject I found his handling of Scripture a bit misplaced in some instances.  He tends to rely heavily on the traditional ideals of positional leadership and authority, which are popular among most of those who teach \\"covering theology.\\"  While Bevere's handling of the subject is perhaps a bit more graceful than some, it is still primarily the same ol' traditional view that is backed by scarce biblical support.  In fact, one has to rely principly upon Old Testament texts to really push this view of leadership because the New Testament pattern is so different.<br />The concept of \\"church covering\\" is not even found one time in the New Testament and Jesus, in fact, told His disciples NOT to serve His body as \\"authorities\\" who were over them, bearing titles and having men address them as such (Luke 22:25-27; Matthew 23:8012).  <br />A study of church history reveals that most of the implications of \\"official\\" ministry terminology found in our KJV's come from romanistic influence and do not appear in the original texts and are unheard of in the first couple centuries of Christian writings.  For example, many passages in the NT that refer to \\"offices\\" of ministry simply refer to \\"serving\\", \\"leading by example\\", or \\"being watchful and caring for\\" the Lord's flock (emphasis on the flock being \\"the Lord's\\") not ruling or exercising authority over others.  <br />Jesus' own directive to His disciples was, if you want to be great, serve!  Lay your life down!  Wash feet!  Don't expect to be paid for your service, but give freely and do everything you can to avoid the trap of money (1 Corinthians 9:18-19; 2 Corinthians 2:14-19; Mark 6:8-11; Acts 20:33-35; 1 Timothy 3:3,8; John 10:11-12; etc.).  Of course receiving financial aid was not illegal for the minister in every case, but it most certainly was NEVER the rule - rather it was the rare exception!  Scripture and early Church history proves this point!  The principle service of the \\"leader\\" is to serve and build up the body, to cause her to mature in Christ and become dependant upon her Lord and learn to hear and follow Him as the Head.  This happens from the \\"bottom-up\\" NOT the \\"top-down.\\"  <br />Today, in many churches, men are viewed as the head of the church body and programs and authority structures are emphasized over personal relationships and the necessity of knowing Christ and submitting to the prompting of the Spirit.<br />Unfortunately, Bevere misses it also when he encourages believers to submit to church authorities even when they are out of line and err from truth.  The Bible NEVER sanctions such requirements on believers!  Bevere suggests, in essence, that by obeying leaders (i.e. church leaders) it is the same as obeying God (even when they are wrong and may tell you to do something that you believe is opposite of what you believe the Lord has spoken to you to do) and that by disobeying leaders it is the same as disobeying the Lord.  Hence the idea is that if you disobey the Lord's voice because you were submitting to your pastor, God will honor you for this because you honored the man over you, but if you disobey the man over you, God will count that just as severely as disobedience to Him because He (allegedly) set this man over you.  Such teaching is also absent from the Word!  The apostles encouraged the flock to always obey God rather than men.  Thankfully, he does seem to draw the line at some point; when leaders directly disobey Scripture you are not obligated to obey, but this point is less than emphasized with all the other strong urging to obey them even when they may be wrong.  The line seems to be there, but it's hard to find amidst the heavy submission emphasis and that submission being equated with submitting to God.  And there is so much gloss about the responsibility of the \\"leader\\" that the \\"layperson\\" (a term I personally can't stand) is implied to be less than able to hear and follow the leading of the Spirit than a leader.  This kind of teaching de-emphasizes the biblical reality of the priesthood of all believers and causes people to think positionally instead of relationally.  Leaders inevitably become placed on high pedestals in the minds of those in the congregation (whether they desire this or not).  All of these problems stem from a faulty perspective of biblical leadership.  Sadly, most who teach and support the covering doctrine don't even realize their error or suspect such is possible.  In my opinion, these types of perspectives on authority and submission are harmful and serve only to make the body of Christ lame.  This is not to say that leaders are not found in the New Testament or that their service is not needed or important.  What I am saying is that the right kind of leadership is the key!  The biblical kind, NOT the traditional kind!<br />While the book makes some positive statements about the attributes of good and godly leadership (which I enjoyed), there are a number of other (what I believe to be) unbiblical directives and perspectives shared concerning submission to leadership and the very idea of \\"being under\\" men, which is opposite of what Scripture teaches, which is that leadership is not positional, but functional and works \\"along side of\\" the body, building her up.<br />An absolutely excellent book on this subject that I would rather recommend is \\"Who Is Your Covering\\" by Frank Viola.  Frank's book involves a direct study of the specific passages in the New Testament regarding the subject of leadership in the church, rather than just pages of perspective and traditional teaching.  Frank leaves no stone unturned in this book and every question about biblical leadership and the popular concepts of \\"covering\\" are dealt with extensively.  Another fantastic title is Watchman Nee's book, \\"The Normal Christian Church Life.\\"	2002-07-24
US	51039269	R1RMXS3KUL2KWX	0966665716	422762925	Who is Your Covering?: A Fresh Look at Leadership, Authority, and Accountability	Books	5	44	46	N	N	One of the best books on NT leadership ever written!	Frank Viola has done a spectacular service to the body of Christ here with his book, &quot;Who Is Your Covering,&quot; by cutting the cords of traditional misunderstanding that have affected how people percieve that leadership in the church is intended to operate... The greatest misunderstanding of course being that the concept of &quot;church covering&quot; is not taught anywhere in the Bible!<br />No biblical stone is left unturned in this discussion of how the New Testament defines &quot;leadership.&quot;  The reader is taken through a study of virtually every passage in the New Testament that pertains to &quot;oversight&quot; in the church.  It becomes clear that many of us have fallen prey to devices of human wisdom when it comes to our perceptions about authority and submission and its connection with those who are &quot;official ministers&quot; in our churches.<br />It would be well, in my opinion, if every pastor, prophet, deacon, elder, evangelist and every lay person read this book!  It is most certainly an eye opener.  But the grand thing is that Frank only expounds from the original writings what the Bible teaches.  There is no &quot;new revelation&quot; here, no &quot;proof texting&quot; and no mis-handling of the context of Scripture.  Just an honest examination of the New Testament story and a closer look into the meanings of the Greek words in select passages that deal with the subject of leadership in the church.  I personally found myself encouraged and desiring to see the expression of servant ministry that Frank describes so beautifully in this book.<br />Some readers will be amazed to find that &quot;official&quot; and &quot;positional&quot; or &quot;hierarchical&quot; forms of leadership are NEVER expressed in the New Testament with respect to the Lord's Church.  In fact, these are largely a product of romanistic influence on the text and church tradition over the centuries, but were largely unheard of, not to mention unpopular, during the first few centuries of the Church.  No doubt this will be a difficult pill for some to swallow, but the medicine is much needed, and as yo momma used to say, &quot;it's good for you!&quot; (grin)<br />This book is not anti-leadership, but it puts the term &quot;leadership&quot; in its proper, biblical context.<br />Highly recommended!  Especially if you have been subjected to &quot;covering theology&quot; or have been asked by leadership to read other books on the subject (like John Bevere's book called &quot;Under Cover&quot;).  I also recommend Watchman Nee's book, &quot;The Normal Christian Church Life.&quot;	2002-07-24
US	51039269	R30PS5FYS5NXDH	0802437370	982272287	Giving and Tithing: Includes Serving and Stewardship (Burkett Financial Booklets)	Books	1	21	29	N	Y	A grand disappointment in light of Scripture!	Though Larry is often heralded as one of the most popular Christian authors on financial matters (which I would have to agree that financial advice is his strong suit and I know people who have benefitted from his books), this book is a grand disappointment, to say the least.  This book proves that Larry is typically influenced with the traditional mindset on tithing but is less than able to present any valid biblical reason for his direction to tithe.  As Russell Kelly, PhD. put it, \\"Larry is a financial planner, not a theologian...\\"<br />Larry builds his entire foundation on the modern traditional teaching of tithing rather than building it on the Word of God.  While Scripture is referenced, it is most often far removed from its proper context and Larry relies on his personal opinion often to enforce points.<br />Larry seems to be ignorant of the mountain of evidence included in early Church history that reveals the Church was big on giving out of love, but was not impressed with those who imposed Old Covenant mandates on the Church.  In fact, several of the Church Fathers from the second century specifically spoke out against tithing (to be used as an example, guideline or motivation for Christian giving).  And despite the fact that there is not one New Testament passage that teaches the Church to use the Old Covenant tithe of food as an example to motivate giving money for the purpose of maintaining building programs and staffed ministers, still Larry insists that tithing is very much a New Covenant principle!  Amazing!<br />Another problem is that Larry only seems to quote certain passages of Scripture where it supports the point he is making.  That wouldn't be a problem if it weren't that he continually misapplies passages by removing them from their proper context and then only quoting the part of the passage that suits his view.  Other passages that should also be included to bring clarity to the complete biblical picture are left out entirely, and understandably so as they would cause his misuse of other passages (whether deliberate or from ignorance) to be more evident.  His puzzle wouldn't fit together if Scripture was visited in its proper context.<br />This is sad and unfortunate.  Even more unfortunate is the reality that there will be some Christians who just bite and swallow these teachings without examining the Word fully for themselves.<br />I am not suggesting that Larry is deliberately trying to deceive people.  I'm sure he is probably thoroughly convinced of his view as are so many believers today who follow the modern concept of tithing money to churches.  I know that Larry is a skilled teacher in the area of financial management and I thank God for the help he has provided to people needing assistance in this area of their lives.  There is much good to be said about brother Larry's work in this field.  I cannot, however, speak so positively about his handling of this subject of tithing because, quite honestly, this book is a miserable examination of the topic and it is misleading to the body of Christ when it encourages Christians to just accept that tithing money to a church is a biblical mandate.  It is not.  Not even close.  This is also not to say that Christians should not support those programs that they receive benefit from, but all I am suggesting is that to call something biblical and present it as a mandate of Scripture when it is not Scriptural at all is just not biblically honest and I don't see how the Holy Spirit can ever bless such teaching.<br />I hope by sharing these comments that, if someone does happen to purchase Larry's booklet on tithing, they will be wise to thoroughly examine the Word on their own and not just take this brother's word for it.  Anyone can build a doctrine by piecing verses together here and there.  It is another thing to honestly examine Scripture in its full and complete context.<br />While there is much encouragement in the New Testament towards giving from loveand obedience to the internal leading of God's Spirit, and that giving is to be actuated from free will WITHOUT COMPULSION or because of NECESSITY (2 Corinthians 9:7), any mandate to tithe money to a local church ...is just absolutely absent from Scripture!  After studying the topic myself for more than 4 years now, I am thoroughly convinced it is a doctrine of man and not at all of Scripture.<br />For a real study on tithing, that goes far far far beyond just one guy's opinion, prooftexted with a small handful of verses, I strongly encourage you to get your hands on a copy of Russell Earl Kelly's book on tithing.  It's called, \\"Should The Church Teach Tithing: A Theologian's Conclusions About A Taboo Doctrine.\\"  This book is remarkable!  Every passage on tithing in the entire Bible is dealt with thoroughly, in context.  There is no proof texting in this study... it's just strait up, honest Bible!  Where opinion is offered, Russell states such and does not ever expect the reader to just take his word of opinion for something.  In other words, Russell does not teach his opinions as being the Bible.  He teaches the Bible.  And his book includes all the source references used in his study so the reader can check him out completely if they choose to.  That's why I loved his book and so highly recommend it - it nails it on the head when it comes to \\"getting biblical\\" about this topic.  No stone is left unturned!<br />Just about every other pro-tithe book I've read lacks substance and usually these books are very thin, scantly clad with Scripture.  Russell's book is crammed thick with the Word of God and loaded with resource study material, including an examination of early Church history - post Calvary!  Good stuff!  Excellent!... If you want to get honest about what biblical tithing is, I strongly recommend Russ' book!...	2002-07-16
US	51039269	R2CLFXPSWQJ6D9	0884197603	641241425	Toxic Relief: Restore health and energy through fasting and detoxification	Books	5	158	161	N	N	Fantastic book to help you jump start your health!	Did you know that your liver is the size of a football and weighs about 5 pounds?  Me neither... Well, I do now.  But believe me, there's a whole lot more information in this book that little tidbits like that (hehe).  That \\"slim-fast\\" drink diet has nothing on a live juice fast!  If you wanna do things right, get this book and do it right!<br />Your liver is the hardest working organ in the body and with our typical American lifestyle it is under enormous strain.  It will blow your mind to discover just how much toxin the liver works to eliminate from the body and how critical the liver is to your quality of life and protecting against and fighting disease.  Your liver does about 500 or more different processes, many of them at the same time.  It works constantly, without rest to keep you alive and well.<br />Toxic Relief will make you want to eat right and make you afraid not to.  You'll want to be a lot nicer to your liver after reading this book.  The book takes you step by step through a process of liver detoxification (2 week program) and juice fasting (which follows the liver detox - actually the 2 week program is to jump start your liver so that you will gain the most effective results from the juice fast and eliminate, safely and effectively, the most toxins from your system as well reap the most healthful benefits of the juice).<br />Not only does Dr. Colbert tell you how to go about juice fasting, he tells you what kind of juicer you need, where to buy it and even how much to expect to spend.  He lists the important vitamins, minerals, amino acids, herbs and other nutrients and foods that are most beneficial to liver detox and restoring health to the GI tract (your intestines and digestive system) and he tells you how much of each to take, when to take it, and how.  He also lists and explains the foods that are harmful to your liver.  The book also includes juicing recepies for each day during the fast (morning, mid-morning, afternoon and evening).  Thereare six recipie veriations for six different types of drinks for each time of the day or you could apply a different drink for each day of the fast.  The recepies are fantastic and enormously simple, but it's also fun to totally create your own concoctions.  Dr. Colbert tells you what juices are most important, even for your particular blood type, and tells you specifically what juice should make up the bulk of each drink.<br />Dr. Colbert spends the majority of the book discussing the health benefits and healing qualities of juice fasting and liver detox, but also explains the spiritual benefits of fasting and gives some practical tips about how to approach a spiritual fast.<br />This was an excellent book!  Not boring in the least and gives you real information that you can put to use right away.  He's not trying to sell the reader on some product or multi-level marketing scheme.  This is just good information on how to jump-start your immune system, increase energy, fight disease, look and feel great!  Every person in America should read this book and follow its prescribed program.  I bought a juicer right after reading it and am on the program now!  WOW!!!  That's all I can say.  You're gonna feel amazing and you're gonna get a ton of those poisoness toxins cleaned out of your system!  Get this book!  You will not be disappointed, I promise!	2002-04-30
US	51039269	R1C8HMT3ZQX6AP	0310200091	829622648	Sex and the Single Person	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent book!  Highly recommended!	I purchased a copy of this book just a few days before writing this review.  It was a good read and really encouraging.  The comments Bob makes about living the single life and the struggle and benefits of choosing to remain sexually pure were right on.  I found myself laughing and really contemplating a lot of the wisdom this brother offers the reader.  There is some really good stuff in this title!  A must read for Christian singles.<br />It also meant a lot to me personally because, at the time of writing this review, I am a 30 year-old, single, virgin myself.  Just hearing from a guy who's 37 (older now actually as this book was written in the late 90's) talk so positively about how great it is (and 100% possible) to be happy, serve God, still be single and a virgin and have a desire to pursue the Lord more than even a wife or anything else was encouraging.  But I think this book will be a blessing to more than just 30 year old virgins (grin).  I think so many singles who have come through different experiences and backgrounds leading up to this point of their lives will find strength and encouragement in this book.  Bob has much to say to divorced persons, widows, those who aren't virgins but have made a decision to follow God's plan and become \\"second virgins,\\" and young men and women as well as older singles.  I think Bob communicates his message well enough that anyone (single) reading this book can get something really positive from it.<br />Bob makes a comment about sex that I think is really true but this truth is not what we hear in the media, the music industry, hollywood and in society today.  The truth is that \\"sex is a drive, it's not a need.\\"  That simple fact, so often, gets distorted and, really, rejected... but it's true.  This book presents some real insight and encouragement for the single who wants to please God but can be honest about the struggle with temptation and about wanting to lay hold of some practical tools for overcoming it, fleeingfrom sin and immorality, and running to God.<br />This book doesn't feel like it's written by a pastor or some other authority figure or religious leader talking down to you.  Nothing, by that statement, is meant as derogatory to pastors or counselors, but what I'm simply saying is that Bob talks on a level of understanding what singles deal with because he is one himself and battles the same stuff every day in his own life.  The things that God has brought him through and taught him in his own life become great counsel for other singles dealing with many of the same or similar issues.<br />Sex and the Single Person is written by a guy who understands the types of thought processes and emotional cycles that most Christian singles face.  But I think it would be unfair to suggest that this book has something to say only to Christians.  I believe that there are some strong messages in this work that would be very enlightening and provoking to those who haven't thought much or cared about the Christian viewpoint on abstinence before Marriage or how to live a healthy and happy single life.  To those that have trouble understanding why anyone would want remain chaste until marriage or overcome the temptation to give in to sexual behavior, you NEED to read this book.  It will help you understand why and may cause you to look deeper at some neglected areas of your own heart.  You may find some answers that you have been avoiding asking questions for.<br />The book does feel targeted at an audience with ages between 25 and 35 and there is a lot of encouragement and counsel given to those who are still virgins.  Of course there is also the feeling that this book speaks a lot to male single, since the author is a male.  Each of these aspects applied to me and so I was able to relate to most of the author's comments and draw strength from what I read.  Perhaps someone who doesn't fit into these categories will get quite as much from this book as I did, but I'm not too confident in suggesting that either because Bob says a lot to people who are not in these categories and he does not speak exclusively to men either.  Heck, the book is affordable enough that I don't think anyone can go wrong here.  It's a good read and you will get something from it!<br />I just started reading another book that is specifically geared towards adult men that seems to be excellent so far.  It's called \\"Every Man's Battle.\\"  Highly recommended reading also!  <br />Sex and the Single Person hits the subject of living the single life from a broader, less exclusive perspective, which makes it great for anyone single to read, male or female.  I really enjoyed it and would recommend it highly!	2002-04-20
US	51039269	R1KJUB6HZQK8F1	0937958212	583400140	Fifty (50) Years in the Church of Rome The Conversion of a Priest	Books	5	105	121	N	N	7 Stars!!! 5 is too low! This is a great book!!!	If you ask me, \\"what's your favorite book in the world,\\" I will quickly tell you, \\"50 Years In The Church of Rome.\\" I absolutely loved this book! It is the story of Charles Chiniquy who spent 50 years in the Church of Rome before he came to a really impacting revelation of God's love, grace and being justified by faith. Charles tells the story of his life growing up in the Catholic Church and his 50 years of experience as a priest. This is a gripping story!  Please note that the edition I read was the UNabridged version of this remarkable book (about 500 pages).  I have not yet read this abridged version and so my first recommendation is that you read the unabridged version of the book, which is a bit wordy but excellent.  Perhaps I will update this review when I read the abridged version.<br />Ok now, ladies, how many guys do you know that sit down to read a book and cry? ;) Well, this book did that to me. Two chapters in particular just messed me all up! :) I found myself ever more thankful for my relationship with Jesus and desiring to be closer to Him still. I also experienced a greater love for the Catholic people and an increased burden to pray.<br />Contrary to what some people have commented on, saying that this book is against the Catholic people or that Charles' stories of what really has gone on in the Catholic Church throughout its history are just made-up lies, nothing could be further from the truth. I have personally studied enough to know that what I read in this book are things that have actually transpired in the Church of Rome in more places around the world than just in Charle's circle. And as far this book being marked as being against Catholic people, this is nonsense. Need I remind such critics that Charles spent near his entire life in the Church of Rome. Charles writes with such a compassion for those people who are a part of the Catholic Church. He does speak very boldly against the religious system of Catholicism and seeks to expose all ofits evils (much of the things he mentions were considerably more prevalent in his day than they are today, but I've talked with enough Catholic people to know that a great deal of what Charles talks about is absolutely true even today). But even though this book is all about Catholicism, it is more so about a man who was so desperate to know Jesus personally and intimately and after years of his searching for Jesus, it is actually Jesus that finds him. This book is about the power of the Gospel and the desire to know God.<br />I love the way this book keeps the reader in a perspective of grace. There were a number of times I found myself infuriated at the way the Catholic Church has wounded some of its people, but then, right at the point where I'd get steaming mad, it was as if Charles could anticipate the Protestant reader's fury and he almost rebukes the reader for allowing a bitter, angry attitude to have any place in their heart. He constantly directs the reader to God's mercy and points to the Gospel.<br />This is a remarkable book that will make you laugh, cry, think, and want to pray. I absolutely loved it! This year I plan to read it again. Catholics and Protestants alike should read this book. If your a Catholic-hater, (first repent) expect to have your eyes opened to the grace of God and be moved to prayer for your brothers and sisters in the Catholic Church. If you're a Catholic, I hope you will also endure this book. If you've been content with just being religious or perhaps have just known nothing else, this book may spark in you a fresh hunger for God.<br />This book, in my opinion, does not come accross as being intended to rip, shred or offend Catholics so much as it does put the spot light on the ills of mere religion and point the reader to desire only Jesus and His wonderful Word! Even as a Protestant there are things about the religious system of the Protestant Church that I am in great disapproval of. It doesn't offend me that people would speak against the ills of the system because I do not worship the system. I don't care about religion or being religious. I want to have a true relationship with God! As I said, I did not find a hatred for Catholics after reading this book. I was encouraged to love and pray for my Catholic friends and for my Protestant friends who are less than merciful towards Catholics. Most of all I was led to the foot of the Cross of Jesus and God touched my heart in a powerful way! This is a must read!	2002-04-11
US	51039269	R1A0EFX5BF6I5D	0912977000	170616617	Tithing: God's Command or Man's Demand--Which?	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Detailed, unique perspective with some encouraging points!	This was a great book.  A little hard to read because the print was so small, but the content was very good and very unique from the other non-tithe position books I read.  Tony approaches the subject from more of a spiritual direction rather than just getting into the letter of the text.  Tony emphasizes the spiritual significance of the fulfillment of tithing for the New Covenant Christian.  Some intriguing points of view are presented.  I wasn't immensely impressed with the layout of the book, but it was still a good read and I would recommend it to anyone interested in studying alternative perspectives on this subject and who might be looking for commentary-style study aids to enhance your personal investigation of New Covenant giving principles versus Old Covenantm expired tithing rituals.<br />Also recommended is Russell Eark Kelly's book \\"Should The Church Teach Tithing\\" and Michael and Mitchell Webb's book called \\"Beyond Tithes and Offerings.\\"  George  Green and Jonathan Kithcart's books are also quite good.	2002-04-03
US	51039269	R5UN0UP6DN6IH	0842310924	512940297	The Divine Romance (Inspirational S)	Books	4	65	69	N	N	Excellent book!  I really almost gave it 5 stars...	The Divine Romance was... well... um... divine!  And, gosh, the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars was because there's a few other favorite titles I've read that impacted me more intensely than this one in particular.  I realize that this may make it seem I don't regard this book as a &quot;hot&quot; title, but nothing could be further from the truth.  I really did almost give it 5 stars.  This was a fantastic read and I highly recommend it to anyone, Christian or not!<br />Gene Edwards is a remarkable story teller and has the wonderful ability to draw the reader into reality through fiction.  I don't know how else to put it.  The Divine Romance is a fictional story (based completely on the reality of spirit life) about the creation of the world and God's intent for man from before the world was made.  It illuminates a most spectacular description of the bride of the Lord Jesus Christ and God's romantic passion for her.  The reader in turn is drawn into a rich encounter with Christ that is far from fiction.  I felt the Lord's presence immensly while reading this book.  It made me want to pray and to cry and to get really serious about my relationship with Jesus.<br />Gene's account wholly gels with Scripture, but he uses his imagination which is sparked by his deep love for Jesus to paint this incredible picture for the believer to understand how God really views His children.  If you're a biblically technical critic, you might struggle a bit with this book because it is largely Gene's imaginitive insights into the Scripture and the reality of Christian life, more than it is verbatim Scripture.  I found it delightful, and though it is fiction, it's almost impossible to just shelf it as a mere fictional story because, in reality, Gene is telling the Gospel truth.  This book will grip your heart and set it ablaze with an increased desire for more of Jesus.  It will also, more than likely, make you discontent with your present spiritual condition and cause to grow hungrier for a more intimate relationship with God.  It will also convict and stir your heart to be more mindful of your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ as you start to see them a the Lord's beautiful bride.  The themes of grace and the romance of God for His people flood through the pages of this book.<br />Ok, I'm starting to feel guilty about my 4 star review (grin).  Maybe it should have been five.  This is a remarkable book!  Worth reading indeed, as are any of Gene's books.  Some of his titles have some controversial elements about them in that they do not necessarily encourage Christians to get all wrapped up in the &quot;business&quot; of doing church.  Gene focuses on real, intimate, life-changing relationship with God and places this quest on the highest pedestal.  Everything else is insignificant and pales in comparison to the mindset of becoming completely filled with God and completely dead to self and religion so that Christ can live His life through us... So that we can truly become that beautiful bride of Christ.<br />Ok... after all that, I'm starting to think 5 stars is a bit low.  Please excuse me while I go read this book again.  ;)	2002-04-02
US	51039269	R2IIFW6HAOCYZY	088419793X	491848160	Walk On: The Spiritual Journey of U2	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Incredible book that journeys into the heart of U2!	Walk On was an absolutely fascinating read! In fact, it was so good I'm going to read it again. I have been a distant fan of U2 since my early teens (I'm 30 now). By \\"distant\\" I just mean that I haven't followed their life and music as closely as some fans have (at least not too far beyond their earlier albums). I did purchase a copy of \\"All That You Can't Leave Behind\\" and I think it is now probably one of my favorites (along with October, The Unforgettable Fire and The Joshua Tree)!<br />I have always found some inspiration in the life and music of U2. Such a statement bothers some Christians and that is precisely why they need to read this book. One of the things I have always most admired about these guys is that they are real and they often wear their hearts right out on their sleeves... There are some very deep, inspiring, contemplative, introspective and sometimes questioning themes that flow consistently through the lyrics of U2's songs. In fact, I don't know of one album that U2 has released that didn't express some facet of spirituality in one way or another.<br />\\"Walk On: The Spiritual Journey of U2\\" presents an intimate look into the lives of a group of true believers who are not playing games with anyone. They don't make excuses for their imperfections or try to cover up their frustration with the condition of the world and how few, especially ...Most Christians who can't get past the sight of a cigarette, a beer or the sound of a cuss word, will have trouble seeing the honest heart of a guy like Bono who is as sincere and devout as they come!...Bono once made the statement in an interview that the reason he is attracted to the Scriptures and figures like Christ is because he is not like them and wants to be; he is drawn to that power greater than himself that can change a man's heart and actions. He admits his weakness but knows the source of this power; God. He is also very inspired by the grace of God. This is wonderfully illustrated in the song bythe same name on U2's latest release.<br />However unorthodox the bros in U2 seem to the rest of Christendom, these guys are very sincere and very plugged in to God (in fact, I would dare say they are seeking harder and desiring that intimate connection with the Lord than probably a lot of Christians who attend churches today are). This book will be a refreshing eye opener to people who have had questions about these guys and whether or not their faith is real. It will answer some questions for fans as well as give those unfamiliar with the band a proper introduction to who these guys are. I think that especially those believers who have expressed criticism towards U2 need to read this great book. I found it very inspiring and challenging to my faith.<br />In consideration of the song \\"Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For,\\" I believe these guys are still searching, but not for God. They have found Him. What they are searching for is an honest expression of truth by those who profess to know Him. An expression of truth that is more than merely words professed, but actions demonstrated. One might also consider this song in respect to 1 Corinthians 13 (the line, \\"I have spoken with the tongues of angels...\\"), where love is the only thing that really matters. Bono seems to be expressing that he has experienced the \\"things\\" of God, but desires more; to be captivated and completely motivated by love. These guys have not walked away, they are determined to \\"Walk On!\\"<br />I highly recommend this book! It will be most meaningful to those who are at least remotely familiar with U2's music, but I think even someone who doesn't know much about them at all will find a number of insightful gems in this great title.	2002-03-12
US	51039269	R18DXVIBAJ3TOX	0940232537	97440850	How to Meet in Homes	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Shake!  Rattle! Roll!  Amazing book!	A previous commentator remarked that Gene Edward's book, How To Meet In Homes, is &quot;cynical and bitter.&quot;  I recently purchased this book and can testify that this is absolutely not the case, though I can understand why some people may presume such initially; it is because this book is entirely offensive to the modern concept of what it means to &quot;attend church.&quot;<br />I have to say that it is probably without dispute among most Protestant Christians that Martin Luther's 95 thesis, nailed to the Catholic Church's door, are not viewed as being merely the remarks of man who was bitter or cynical (and neither do most Christians regard Luther as being negative or wrongly critical), but most Christians would probably agree in saying that they were penned by a man who was graciously enlightened by God's truth, desperate for closer relationship with Christ, and this revelation motivated him to inspire others with this newfound liberty and not put up with the mistruths and deceptions any longer.  Without meaning to elevate brother Gene on too high a pedestal, I would like to suggest that Gene's book be approached with a similar attitude; that Christians would honestly weigh his comments and see if they do not speak truth.  I believe he has something powerful to say and I pray that the Church, the body of Christ, will have ears to hear.<br />This book, in my opinion, has enormous potential to stir and motivate Christians to get bravely real about their approach to the pursuit of the Lord Jesus and their embracing of one another in the body of Christ.  This book calls for difficult introspection, honest assessment of our actions (both corporately and individually), and a call to a radical choice, whereby we will either remain content with tradition and dead, dry religion or pursue the presence of Jesus with radical abandon. <br />Myself being a current member of what may accurately be defined as an institutional/organized church (I'm almost ashamed to admit this given all the things God has been stirring in my heart up to this point of my life and as that parallels much of my studies in the Word of God and regarding Church history) I will say that, granted, Gene is very brash and blunt about the condition of the modern Church and how it sadly resembles nothing of the early Church founded by the Lord Jesus, but this book is not bitter at all.  It is challenging, painful at times, convicting, piercing, and often offensive to the modern, traditional Christian way of thinking, but bitter it is not in the least!<br />I have read several other titles by Gene and listened to audio tapes by this brother in Christ.  I have talked with people who know him personally and I know that bitter he is not.  Any Christian who takes the time to read his other books such as &quot;Crucified by Christians,&quot; &quot;Prisoner in the Third Cell,&quot; and &quot;A Tale of Three Kings,&quot; or gets to hear an audio tape of him talking about the Lord Jesus and His body while weeping, will understand this to be true.  Anyone who has the chance to hear his testimony will understand that this is just a normal, ordinary guy with an extraordinary love for Jesus and for seeing believers find a fresh and vibrant passion for knowing Him intimately and allowing Christ alone to radically change our lives for His glory.<br />Because of brother Gene's radical and pointed observations about the modern organized Church, some Christians may take offence to some of his comments... but the book is written with love by a man who is broken and humble and has lived to know what he is talking about.  Himself being a former Baptist minister and having suffered many trials and physical infirmities, brother Gene is a pure voice that loves the body of Christ (yes, even those brothers, sisters and ministers in the organized Church) and desires to see a deeper, more meaningful and organic expression of Christian life as demonstrated in the pages of God's precious Word.<br />This book will be difficult medicine for some to swallow, but I think it is good medicine nonetheless and I think every Christian, especially those of us who are a part of institutional type organized churches, need to hear the words presented in this book and confront them head on.  Pastors need to read this book, if they can be brave enough to endure it and honestly contemplate.  It will not be easy material to deal with because it is radical and it is so different from the way we commonly think of &quot;church&quot; today.<br />Whether this title liberates you, makes you think a little, or just makes your blood boil, I think you will agree it is worth every dime spent!  Excellent!  Highly recommended!  But like the back cover of the book states: &quot;Warning: Do not read this book if you enjoy Sunday morning church services!&quot;  If you like what you've always had and aren't interested to find out what you've been missing and, really, what the modern church structure and order of worship has robbed you from, don't bother reading this book.<br />This book was so impacting to me personally, I purchased three copies to share with others.  I encourage you to read it.  God bless!	2002-03-06
US	51039269	R3RT5JNT2SJJXB	0842350233	626526473	The Prisoner in the Third Cell	Books	4	45	45	N	N	For every Christian who has asked God, "why?"	Wow! This is an amazing little book that presents the story of John the Baptist from a perspective I doubt that most people have ever considered! You will feel as if you are right there in the story with John and you will connect with him, not merely as a \\"hero of the faith,\\" but as a real person. The story is a fictional account but it is based on the true story of John the Baptist from Scripture. In fact, it is more than just \\"based\\" on it because every element from the story here is consistent with Scripture and history. Gene is a wonderful story teller and has created dialoge and included historical elements to piece the story of John's life together in a way that introduces you to the real character. The story does not depart from Scriptural truth at all but actually will help the reader to see it in a clearer, more personal and meaningful light and apply it personally. <br />The message of this book will grip your heart and pull you closer to Jesus Christ. If you are struggling as a Christian, whatever your circumstance (be it sickness, emotional pain, depression, discouragement, or just feeling and wondering if God has forgotten about you or that He has not lived up to your expectations of Him... If you've ever cried out to God and asked Him, \\"why? Where are you? Why are You silent?\\") this is a remarkable book you need to read. It may change your entire perspective on suffering and give you strength and hope when all seems to be crumbling around you. I wish I could have shared this book with my father before he passed away. This book is not what you expect and it is not typical. Some people who have read through it have commented that it ends a little \\"dark.\\"  After reading it myself, I understand to some degree what they mean (though I wouldn't use the term \\"dark\\" at all myself), but sometimes life doesn't always have such a simple, happy resolve (at least to our human way of thinking).  Sometimes we just have to bear our crosses and trust in a God we don'talways understand completely.<br />Prisoner in the Third Cell is about a mind-renewal process concerning how we approach suffering.  Sometimes this story gets a little deep and you have to think about it.  When you're \\"going through it\\" it makes a lot more sense!  Probably one of the most difficult lessons to learn through struggle and pain is that God's grace is really sufficient.  In a world where so many televangelists tell you that all you have to do is give money and have faith and everything will be perfect, this book is a refreshing insight into the reality about suffering and true faith and how God's grace really is enough.  In truth I have seen more people who have tried so hard to reach some high \\"position\\" of health, wealth and success by quoting this Scripture verse and that one and practicing positive confession until they're blue in the face and only wind up more discouraged, depressed, confused, angry and weary in the battle.  This little book will open the reader's eyes in a new dimension of God's grace, love and purpose through enduring hardship and those seasons when we just can't understand why, and the heavens seem to be silent.<br />Gene himself is no stranger to suffering and brokenness and God has revealed much to this brother. Gene has such a tender heart for the Lord and this element of his life is so beautifully sensed in his writing. Highly recommended reading. In fact, all of the books by this author are quite good.  Other good titles I found to be really a blessing were \\"A Tale of Three Kings\\" (get the video version of this book - much better seeing Gene himself tell the story) and The Highest Life.<br />4 Stars is my high grade for this title.  I think I did not regard it as five only because it did kind of leave me hanging a bit at the end, but I suppose this was the point.  Rather than just seek a simple answer, I need to learn the suficiency of God's rich grace.  It's a contemplative resolve that's not so easy to swallow.  I confessI wanted a brighter, simpler answer myself.  I was left wondering, could there be more to it than this?  But if you're going through some struggle or have a friend who is, this is a book that will be identified with and point you in the direction of grace.  It's a great title, worth reading.  It's relatively short and can be read in an evening or two.	2002-03-05
US	51039269	R3G14V8UH3IVW0	0849913233	396554772	The Grace Awakening	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful book!	The Grace Awakening was a fantastic read!  Very encouraging, motivating and challenging.  In a day when traditionalism is so emphasized in the Church, we are too soon forgetting the grace of Jesus that set us free from, not only sin, but legalism and the restrictive traditions of men that we may rather serve the Lord freely and cheerfully with love and according to the prompting of God's Holy Spirit and the instruction of His incredible Word.  Many have left the simplicity of the Gospel and of Scripture for the fancier details of &quot;Christian&quot; pop-culture and modern theology.<br />Charles illustrates for the reader a beautiful picture of the grace of God, as it is seen exampled and taught in Scripture, and calls the reader to return to this focus on grace and allow it to liberate our Christian experience, to motivate and stir us to love for one another in the body of Christ, and to encourage us in that pursuit of intimacy with Christ.  And as these things come into alignment in our perspectives it will also effect change in our approach to winning the lost for Jesus.  Not so much merely with words, but real action that is motivated by God's amazing and awakening grace!<br />This is a great book that reminds the reader to return to God's Word and set his/her mind upon the rich and wonderful grace of God.  Highly recommended reading!	2002-01-22
US	51039269	RKYPYTQ7EGH5W	1577781961	114543057	But I Cant Afford To Tithe	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Jakes: a man of God but a little ignorant about this subject	I love brother Jakes and recognize him as a sincere man of faith with a heart for God's people (and, boy, that dude can preach). Unfortunately, I wish T.D. was a little more versed in Scripture as it concerns the subject of tithing. Jakes presents the traditional perspective concerning the subject of tithing (popular in most of the church today) and likewise uses the traditional Scripture reference &quot;proof texts&quot; to bolster support of the teaching. Sadly, proper context and sound principles of biblical interpretation are too often set aside and replaced with personal opinion and common religious perspective. Probably this is done in ignorance due to predominance of this doctrine's influence over the last several hundred years. I think that some people who want to conclude that men like T.D. Jakes are liars or greed-driven ministers need to be careful of such attitudes towards other Christians, lest God judge them with the same severity. We are all fallible creatures and all of us have areas of our understanding that need maturing. What we need to have is grace in our hearts towards our fellow brother sisters in Christ and be faithful to pray for each other. While Jake's view is clearly pro-tithe and disagrees with my personal conclusions about this doctrine, I know that the words used in this book convey love and Christ-like attitudes. I do pray that brother Jakes will take upon himself the bold challenge to re-examine the Word on this doctrine however. The fact is (according to my studies of more than 2 years on the topic) that Scripture clearly does not support monetary tithing mandates on Christians and the majority of biblical resource works for study (i.e. commentaries, dictionaries, encyclopedias, etc.) and even the early church fathers themselves for more than 200 years after Calvary also do not support such teachings. Giving is always a matter of freewill according to the giver's ability and all is to be regulated according to obedience to the Spirit of God indwelling the believer in Christ. I highly recommend a book like &quot;Should The Church Teach Tithing&quot; by theologian Dr. Russell Earl Kelly and highly recommend you do NOT purchase &quot;Lie of the Tithe&quot; by R. L. Johnston (it is extremely negative, critical, slanderous, bitter and severely lacks the attitude of Christ's love).	2001-08-29
US	51039269	R3D1BJGRH4DY6F	1579213197	550238246	Did the Apostle Paul Teach Tithing to the Church?	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great &quot;starter&quot; book on the subject discussion of tithing.	One of things I most appreciated about this book was the author's heart towards pastors.  This book is written with love and grace, but is also not timid in proclaiming the author's conviction of truth concerning the subject of tithing and what constitutes true Christian giving.<br />Jonathan's thrust of investigation of the tithe here primarily concerns the Apostle Paul's approach to giving and how church ministry is to be financed.  There are some excellent points made in this book and the examination of Scripture is honest and consistent.<br />Kithcart deals expressly with many of the chief questions people raise about tithing; such as, &quot;Does Malachi apply to Christians and the Church?&quot;, &quot;Are you really cursed if you do not tithe?&quot;, &quot;Is tithing an Old Testament Law replaced by a new standard?&quot;, &quot;Did Jesus receive a tithe from His followers?&quot;, &quot;Did Jesus or His Apostles, namely Paul, teach tithing to the Church?&quot;, &quot;What exactly does the New Testament teach about giving?&quot;, etc.<br />While Kithcart's book may not be the most thorough investigation of the subject of tithing, it is nonetheless very good and to the point.  This book will challenge, convict, inspire, inform and get you thinking.  It is very easy to read and there is nothing negatively critical in the writing.  A great reading suggestion for someone who doesn't feel like they have the time or energy to devote to a lengthy book on the subject.  Kithcart's book can be read in an evening and really open the reader's heart to some challenging truths.  This book is also a motivator towards giving and not a retreat from it in any way.<br />Good stuff, great title, highly recommended.  Also very highly recommended is &quot;Should The Church Teach Tithing&quot; by Theologian Russell Earl Kelly, PhD. and Michael and Mitchel Webb's book called, &quot;Beyond Tithes and Offerings&quot;.	2001-08-06
US	51039269	R2F47BN37IHCJN	0310265304	406759531	Irwin's Bible Commentary	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good commentary!  Concise and easy to read!	I inherited a copy of Irwin's Bible Commentary (Copyright 1928) from my father when he passed away in January of 2001.  I was thrilled to add this resource to my study collection.  C.H. Irwin's Commentary of the Bible is near impossible to find available copies of but if you are able to locate a copy somewhere it would be well worth picking up.<br />C.H. Irwin has compiled a wonderful commentary on the Bible in a very readable format.  His style of Scripture interpretation is conservative, concise and very helpful for Bible students of any experience level, although personally I wish his comments were not quite so brief (as he makes some excellent observations throughout his disquisition of the biblical text).  Overall this is a well-written, resourceful piece of work.  Many single volume commentaries I've read are usually less than impressive when it comes to providing succinct, ancillary support in biblical studies, but Irwin's commentary is a jewel.<br />A great aid for quick-reference study of the Bible.	2001-04-06
US	51039269	R1O301EQ07EQI9	0595159788	211143914	Should the Church Teach Tithing? A Theologian's Conclusions about a Taboo Doctrine	Books	5	111	117	N	Y	The most informative, intriguing book I've read on tithing!	Should the Church teach tithing?  This is a question that, it seems, more and more Christians are desiring an answer to today.  Certainly there are many different opinions that exist on the subject.  But what does God's Word clearly teach on the matter?  After reading more than 40 books, commentaries, lexicons, Bible dictionaries and various study aids and position articles on this subject (from all different perspectives), I came across Dr. Kelly's book.  To be honest I wasn't expecting to be surprised much after all of my previous research on the subject, but Dr. Kelly's book was a mind-blower!<br />Should The Church Teach Tithing, by theologian Russel Earl Kelly, Ph. D. (343 pages), is one of the most thorough and intriguing investigations of the biblical tithe I have read to date.  This book answers questions and challenges against many traditional arguments and misconceptions that have been made concerning the subject of tithing and also traces the early development of church support as found in the Church Fathers before Nicea.  The writing is completely void of negative critical commentary, yet presents the biblical truth in a fascinating, precise and clear cut manner.  Kelly also offers his insight and perspective concerning the mysterious biblical character known as Melchizedek and offers some surprising conclusions.<br />Russel Earl Kelly's work is accompanied by scores of quality references and a multitude of Scriptural support for each point made.  The reader is encouraged and given the resources to do their own biblical investigation into the subject along with the author.<br />This is a book that will encourage Christians in the area of understanding the tithe and true, biblical, New Covenant giving principles.  It will help the reader to understand clearly when tithing originated, why it was implemented in the Law and how it has been fulfilled completely through Christ.  Wonderful emphasis is made upon the priesthood of the believer in Jesus Christ, his New Covenant privilege of intimate relationship with God and the role this plays in blessing others.  No biblical stone is left unturned in this amazing presentation.<br />I believe this book has the potential to strengthen the understanding of many pastors and evangelists who have commonly taught tithing to the Church.  If a person is teachable and eager to embrace the simple Word of God, this book will be an exciting, fresh look into the subject of Christian stewardship and right perspectives on biblical giving principles.  It is an absolute must read for anyone desiring to better understand and embrace biblical truth and right doctrine as it concerns this topic.s New Covenant privilege of intimate relationship with God and the role this plays in blessing others.  No biblical stone is left unturned in this amazing presentation.<br />I believe this book has the potential to strengthen the understanding of many pastors and evangelists who have commonly taught tithing to the Church.  If a person is teachable and eager to embrace the simple Word of God, this book will be an exciting, fresh look into the subject of Christian stewardship and right perspectives on biblical giving principles.  It is an absolute must read for anyone desiring to better understand and embrace biblical truth and right doctrine as it concerns this topic.	2001-03-31
US	51039269	R9VYX4HMZXJ69	1577781910	703578158	Tithing Is A Matter Of Love Not The Law	Books	2	8	10	N	N	What?  That's it? No really, where's the rest of the book?	It's been some time since I first posted my review of T.D. Jakes \\"book\\" on tithing.  I was a little ignorant back then about the man and his message, though I really first started to question things when I saw how poorly presented this defense of tithing was.  The following is my former comments ammended slightly to bring them up to date.    I have to say in advance here that I love T.D. Jakes in Christ, though I am not a fan of a number of his teachings.  I will say that have read a couple of his otherbooks that were great.  As a matter of fact, some of his teaching on giving that I've heard on TV (by huge contast to this book) has been quite decent.  Eager to read this book, I ordered my copy to be shipped overnight!  Unfortunately, this \\"book\\" was quite a dissapointment.    Instead, what youreceive is a little 20 page tract-sized booklet.  There is no detailed explanation or study of the tithe at all; the \\"book\\" is more of abrief summary of the common traditional practice of monetary tithing and the author's opinion of why Christians should tithe.  As another reviewer pointed out, when Jakes can't offer Scripture to back his teaching, he resorts to praising cults for their practices and actually calls them \\"blessed\\" while treading upon the poor and impoverished who exist right here within the body of Christ.  Pathetic!    The positive aspect of the author's comments is that they seem to be displayed with an attitude of love - or maybe eloquence is a better word for it.  I'm not sure it's \\"love\\" but I don't want to judge the man's intentions.  Depending on how you take what he's presenting, it could be taken as pure legalism and place a believer under even more bondage if they are naive and succomb to Jake's methodology.    Few Scripture verses are mentioned (thepopular tithing verses used by most pastors), and it appears that\\"proof texting\\" (using partial verses or missapplied passages of Scripture) is often used (perhaps in ignorance, but I strongly doubt it) toprove points rather than presenting the whole context of Scripture.    In myown studies of the biblical tithe I have tried to remain teachable and glean information from a variety of sources.  This was my attitude in purchasing T.D. Jakes' \\"book\\", also because I have enjoyed some of his other titles and hearing him minister on occasion.  It does tend to get very frustrating when people quote partial verses to make their point, when a simple reading of the entire verse or chapter often will point out a very different conclusion.  This is where I personally believe much of the confusion about tithing has derived, because most Christians have not examined the totality of what Scripture teaches in this regard.  Prayer, study and honest examination of what the Bible really presents is absolutely necessary to obtain a proper perspective that is not biased by tradition or the mere wisdom of men.    This title by Jakes might be worth a glance through if you seeit on the back seat of your buddy's car or in one of those information brochure slots back in the foyer of your church (or on the top pile of the trash can - providing there is no gum stuck to it)...  That's just WAY over-priced in my opinion (and deceptively offered as well - as a \\"book\\" when it is nothing like a book); especially since this title, unfortunately, has really nothing substantial to offer.    On apositive note...  God bless you T.D. but, dude, please get honest about this subject and teach the truth - not traditional religious garbage.	2000-11-12
US	51039269	R16AXMYR1907IJ	0671043838	308074031	Everything And A Kite	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Very funny, a lot of fun, loads of smiles, but slow at times	I am a pretty big fan of Ray Romano.  I love his stand-up comedy and his  show is usually just great.  I love dry humor and Ray is full of it!  Hahaha!  I purchased the audio book version of this title, which is also  read by the author; Ray Romano.  Ray reads his book in such a way that it  just sounds natural, not like he's reading at all.  It made listening more  like sitting through a four hour stand-up comedy routine.<br />There are a lot  of funny stories contained in this comedian's work (my favorites are the  ones about his childhood and family).  Some of the stories will have you  rolling on the floor, laughing hysterically.  I recognized some of the  stories from Ray's stand up routines.  Great stuff!  Unfortunately, for me  personally, these episodes were pretty much few and far between.  Most of  the stories made me smile or at least chuckle now and then, but there are  some long periods of snooze material.  I hate to be critical because I  totally enjoy Ray's work and he even shares in the book how difficult it  was for him to put his own personality and comic style into writing.  Since  I do some writing of my own as well, I can appreciate this struggle.  When  I write, it often doesn't read exactly the way I talk.<br />For the most part  I think Ray pulled things off beautifully and this is a great book.  There  are even some more serious moments in the book where Ray shares some cool  thoughts concerning his thankfulness to God for the institution of marriage  (of course this brief serious moment leads into another spiel of humerous  stories).  Very enjoyable.  Husbands and wives will no doubt relate to some  of Ray's comical insights concerning relationships and child rearing as  well.<br />Personally, I could have done without some of the swearing (he uses  the &quot;F word&quot; a couple of times) and crude humor in spots (there  was very little of either thank goodness) but overall it was quite an  enjoyable experience.<br />If you're a Ray Romano fan I think you will enjoy  this book.  Just don't expect it to be exactly like one of his stand-up  routines or TV shows.  Yes there are some segments that are side-bursting  hilarious and those make it worth a listen (or read).  I give it three  stars, mostly because I wanted to laugh way more than I did.  :)o fan I think you will enjoy  this book.  Just don't expect it to be exactly like one of his stand-up  routines or TV shows.  Yes there are some segments that are side-bursting  hilarious and those make it worth a listen (or read).  I give it three  stars, mostly because I wanted to laugh way more than I did.  :)	2000-08-07
US	51039269	R10YNSU9B4UMLC	0881772844	8866328	Holy Smoke!: Whatever Happened to Tithing?	Books	1	12	20	N	Y	Holy Smoke! What ever happened to the Word of God?	A previous reviewer of this book wrote that Holy Smoke &quot;is useful in helping we clergy get over the guilt around encouraging people to give.&quot; Unfortunately, it appears this person was ignorant of the fact that &quot;guilt&quot;, according to the Word of God, is actually defined as being sin? (Ezra 9:6; 10:10; Psalms 69:5, etc. - just a few examples). I would dare say that if a pastor is experiencing guilt in &quot;encouraging&quot; their flock to tithe, this should be an indicator that perhaps there is a valid reason for the existence of that guilt. Selah! (that means &quot;think about it&quot;)<br />Regardless of the reviews concerning this book, I purchased it anyway to sincerely examine it for myself, also in an attempt to further achieve a balanced perspective on tithing in my studies. What I encountered in this book was, unfortunately, a poorly presented case for tithing, at least from the perspective of a student of the Bible who is not interested in mere indoctrination by methods of human reason and intellect. There were (in fairness) some fun stories and a few interesting thoughts on the subject, but in all honesty they seemed to be more of a distraction than a help in understanding the biblical application of tithing or proving any convincing contrasting point. I guess for me Scripture carries far more weight than just a few nice stories and suggestions based on tradition and the authors' opinion. It would have been nice to see a more indepth examination of the Word.<br />The book quotes several historical examples of tithing, some personal stories and accounts and a lot of reason again without strong support of Scripture.  The book failed to convince this student of the Word that the author had any detailed understanding of the biblical tithe and its application at all, but rather a lot of ideology based on tradition and verses removed from their proper context (perhaps in ignorance) used to &quot;proof text&quot; the authors' plug for tithing.<br />The book also contains an outline study intended to be used in a group setting for the purpose of teaching on the tithe and engaging in discussion. The problem is that rather than encouraging discussion pertaining specifically to the Word, the reader is instructed to discuss points made in the book by the authors. And, quite frankly, some of the questions are (in my personal opinion) borderline ridiculous to say the least. For example, this one from page 92: &quot;Read this familiar passage as if you were in a spacecraft circling the earth. You look down at the blue planet. What new insights does this new perspective provide?&quot; This book certainly seems like appropriate reading for space travel (grin).<br />I have read several other books from a pro-tithing perspective that were interesting and made some thought provoking points (Larry Burkett's book &quot;Giving and Tithing&quot; was especially good), but this book, unfortunately, only makes the bottom of my list for recommended reading. I really was hoping it would have been better. I would really like to challenge these authors to get a book like Theologian Dr. Russell Kelly's &quot;Should The Church Teach Tithing&quot; or Mitchell's &quot;Beyond Tithes And Offerings&quot; and answer some of the hard questions presented that tithe teachers seem to often skirt around dealing clearly with according to Scripture. I give it one star.<br />On a positive note, the cover is cool looking. :)	2000-06-13
US	51039269	R3K5YLOGS6UJLW	0967968909	598374408	No More Tithing	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Challenging, encouraging, easy to read and well presented!	&quot;No More Tithing&quot;, written by author George W. Greene, is a remarkable, insightful, inspiring piece of work that simply and clearly presents the tithe in its biblical context without being wordy or overly complex in the presentation of Scriptural evidence.  This book is, for  certain, an informative and intriguing read!  Mr. Greene illustrates,  through his book, the common misconceptions concerning what most churches  call the tithe today and examines the plain truth of Scripture and the  responsibility, freedom and joy found in true, Christian, biblical giving  principles.<br />Another notable positive that can be said about this book is  the fact that it is entirely non-critical in nature (as some other books  that deal with a non-tithing position often tend to exhibit in their  presentation).  This book is must for anyone desiring to better understand  the biblical concept of tithing and also New Covenant principles for  giving.  Pastors will also be encouraged and challenged through this study.   Important questions, arguments and misconceptions about the tithe are  answered clearly according to the Word of God.<br />\\"No More Tithing\\" does not  present a position that encourages the reader to neglect giving to their  churches or to the work of the ministry, neither does it exempt the  Christian from the responsibility to consider the Lord first in the area of  finances and how those finances are appropriated, however, it exhorts the  reader to embrace the biblical concept of Spirit-led, love-motivated  obedience to the Lord in giving.  Attention is called to one of the main  New Covenant directives for giving found in 2 Corinthians 9:7, which says,  &quot;Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not  reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful  giver.&quot;<br />This book will challenge, educate, encourage and inspire the  reader with a proper understanding of the tithe as it relates to (and  differs from) the New Covenant example for giving.  It is incredibly easy  to read, to the point and well outlined.  The heart communicated through  this work is sincere and full of the love of God in its presentation.  An  excellent book!  Definitely an enjoyable read!  Not in any way critical  towards leaders in positions of church authority or other believers in  Christ.  Mr. Greene has some wonderful insights that the Lord has given him  concerning this subject.	2000-04-20
US	51039269	R6H5R89N4GON3	0533123887	817636252	The Whole Truth in Tithes-Don't Be Tithed Around	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Simple, to the point, easy to read and full of grace.	I enjoyed reading this book on the tithe.  It involves a very simplistic, biblical examination of the tithe and is well presented.  I consider it more of a summary, but that is what makes this book enjoyable to read; it  is to the point and gives the reader a clear picture of the key points of  this uncommon perspective on tithing.  It can also be read in one sitting  and its brevity helps to fasten the learned points to memory much  easier.<br />I especially appreciated the fact that this book is non-critical  and is careful to present the validity and importance of giving.  Readers  are encouraged to examine and study the Word of God for themselves and seek  proper application of the truth to their lives, especially to embrace true,  biblical, Christian giving practice.  Some very valid points are discussed  and this would be a good book to present to a pastor for honest  discussion.<br />The only reason I gave the book 4 stars, rather than 5, is  because there were a few theological points I personally found trouble  agreeing with and I feel there probably could have been a little more depth  to some of the Scriptural investigation in some areas of the book, however,  I believe the book serves its purpose; to raise some legitimate questions  regarding the common, modern-day practice of tithing and challenges this  modern view according to God's Word.<br />Overall: very enjoyable reading,  well presented, inspiring, encouraging and thought provoking.  As a plus,  this book is not negative or critical towards pastors or tithe-believing  Christians and comes across as very sincere and gracefull as well as  uncompromisingly challenging.  Would recommend to anyone investigating  biblical perspectives on tithing.	2000-02-29
US	51039269	R2ZPIUP2XJZV3E	0310383315	746033982	Tithing	Books	2	36	40	N	Y	Sincere and non-legalistic presentation of tithing.	This book (which by the way is specifically dedicated by the author to pastors) could be considered the textbook for tithers, as it so closely resembles the common teaching and preaching heard today on the subject.   <br />Tithing: A Call To Serious Biblical Giving - involves a sincere,  encouraging and loving attempt to present why tithing is important for  Christians.  The book is well written, easy to read and presents some  interesting challenges to non-tithing Christians and attempts to provide  answers to some of the opposing views concerning the tithe.  <br />But while  the author's examination of the tithe is intellectually plausible (and some  good and even biblical points are made from time to time), it is  unfortunately not well supported by Scripture.  The majority of the  teaching is presented according to the author's personal opinions,  speculations and assumptions (with some testimony) rather than a clear,  detailed examination and presentation of Scripture.  <br />For example, on one  occasion the author preludes his teaching by telling the reader he is going  to present how even the Apostle Paul preached on the tithe (an interesting  claim that invited my attention), but what follows is merely and  exclusively the author's opinionated speculation concerning what he feels  Paul probably might have said in a sermon (though not one of these assumed  sermons by the Apostle are supported by any thread of Scripture).  The  author seems to have a habit of reading a lot in between the lines of  Scripture to support (and henceforth enforce) his position on the tithe.   Some verses are lifted from their context (although probably in sincerity  and ignorance) to support a New Testament defense of tithing.<br />The book is  an excellent presentation of how the tithe is most commonly practiced,  preached and understood by Christians today.  The book reads like the  perfect sermon on the tithe.  I would recommend it if you're researching  various perspective views on the subject, but unfortunately it fails the  test of being able to effectively support a position of biblical tithing  based on Scripture alone.<br />I gave the book 2 stars because while  interesting and even enjoyable to read, it was lacking my expectations for  a more biblically in-depth investigation of the tithe.  The book seems  heavily biased by the author's traditional views.	2000-01-19
US	51039269	R35N6PXJ1UN3V3	0966097777	420214899	Beyond Tithes & Offerings	Books	5	42	43	N	Y	Excellent book!  Presented with precision, balance and love!	Beyond Tithes and Offerings is a wonderful book!  Many of the books and articles I have thus far read concerning this perspective of the tithe are often negative, critical and neglect to encourage the practice of true Christian giving principles according to the Word of God, which can only be  effectively enacted out of a changed heart, filled with God's love and  divine purpose.  Beyond Tithes and Offerings is for certain a brilliant  exception!<br />This book not only outlines clearly and simply the proper  biblical context of tithing (in contrast to the traditional view taught in  most churches today - including my own, yikes! hehe), but it presents a  practical challenge to invite the Lord to come and inspire our motivation  to give out of our abundance to supply the lack of others; not out of  necessity or by compulsion, but out of love.<br />If you are one who perhaps  has chosen a non-tithing position thinking that this means you are now  exempt from a responsibility to give (even of your finances), this book  will, on the contrary, prove you otherwise and challenge you directly in  your faith and your relationship with Jesus.<br />Beyond Tithes and Offerings  does not neglect the importance of understanding Christ's heart as it  concerns our giving.<br />Since reading this book, in addition to my own  personal Bible studies and prayer, I have experienced a revitalized  sensitivity to the Holy Spirit and a fresh liberty in the area of giving  that I had been missing before.  I learned so much more than what tradition  has taught me over the years (or perhaps I should say mis-taught).  I  highly would recommend this book to pastors as well as any Christian who  would invite a challenge to their faith and the opportunity to grow in  their understanding of God's Word as it applies to the subject of true  Christian giving.<br />The motivation of this book is not to divide churches  or turn members against their tithe-preaching pastors or from giving  financiallyto care for the needs of the local church, on the contrary it  encourages spiritual growth and attention to the reality and power of God's  Word that needs to be wholly applied to our lives in every area.  This book  is not against giving, in fact it encourages it and pastors needn't feel  threatened by the title.  It is certainly not the common perspective of  most church leaders and Christians in general today (and for many may be a  little hard to swallow because it so severely offends the tradition many  have religiously observed for years), but it is the biblical perspective  and one that I believe has the potential to revolutionize the way churches  operate today. <br />I especially encourage pastors  to read this book, because, rest assured, probably a good number of your  flock already are!  It's going to make preaching the traditional tithe  (with Scripture) a whole lot harder, as people begin to just read for  themselves the simple truth revealed right in the pages of God's Word.	2000-01-13
US	51039269	R2TDVHH1IF2MVX	0967495377	351616349	Lie of the Tithe	Books	1	34	44	N	Y	Negative, critical and lacking love.  Some good points.	This book, Lie of the Tithe, had the potential of being a very confrontive, compelling investigation of the subject of biblical tithing, but missed its mark by far.  While the book has its moments and some very  good thoughts are presented at times, the whole of the book is crudely  shrouded in a dark cloak of slanderous comments against sincere Christian  leaders, as well as continual judgmental remarks of &quot;hypocrite&quot;,  &quot;fool&quot;, &quot;liar&quot;, etc. and many direct, harsh and blatant  slams against a number of Christian denominations.  <br />Rather than simply  presenting the Word of God, the author continuously resorts to name  calling, finger pointing and pointless sidetracking arguments which are  precisely critical in nature.  <br />The order of topics are sloppily  scattered throughout the book and most of the teaching is presented from  the author's expanded and opinionated explanation of selected verses rather  than a detailed, precise presentation of Scripture and commentary offered  in love, words seasoned with grace and edification.  <br />The author, in many  cases, also expects the reader to just take his word for certain things  rather than explain them in detail supported by fact and Scripture.  The  primary message the author is attempting to convey (concerning specifically  the tithe) often gets lost in the midst of the pointed, critical comments  and sarcastic cartoons which distract the reader and actually present an  attitude that one may easily consider to be opposite of what the author  would have you to believe he is preaching as being true Christian behavior.   <br />As previously mentioned, there are a few good nuggets hidden amidst the  rubble (surprisingly good in fact) but the whole of this book will never be  taken very seriously by anyone other than people who are likewise as  critical and angry as the author appears to be.  The author boasts that  &quot;this is the one book your pastor hopes you never read...&quot;Rightly  so as it is a horribly presented piece of work, severely lacking the  attitude of Christ's love in its presentation.  Don't even waste time  trying to share this awful book with your pastor... it will hit his trash  can before you leave the room.  A much better recommendation for study on  the non-tithing perspective would be the book &quot;Beyond Tithes &amp;  Offerings&quot; also available through Amazon.com	2000-01-11
