US	51032984	R2LSGJET0XAVSR	1594200580	838943619	The City of Falling Angels	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Truth, selected and arranged to make literature	I noticed some time ago that whenever anyone in a movie goes to Venice, something bad happens.  Donald Sutherland gets hacked up by a deranged dwarf, Rupert Everett gets his throat cut by a sadistic admirer, spinster Katherine Hepburn gets her heart broken by a married man.  Even Shakespeare had Venice as the setting for intrigue, usury and betrayal.  Venice is a place where bad things happen.  Now John Berendt, author of MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, takes on the fabled city at the turn of the new Millennium and achieves some dazzling results. It's still a city of duplicity, con games and corruption despite its glorious artistic, literary and historical heritage.  Berent uses the city as the setting for a series of related essays dealing with arson that maybe was not arson, suicide that maybe was murder, feuding old Venetian families, feuding expatriates, duplicitous philanthropists, and out-and-out swindles by supposedly respectable people.  Who is lying?  Who is telling the truth?  Is there such a thing as truth?  A lot of this book is very anxiety-inducing, especially those parts dealing with people who are obviously crooks who are obviously going to get away with it.  Berendt has the extraordinary gift of being able to write truth as if it were fiction.  One of the episodes, \\"The Man Who Loved Others,\\" could just as easily be anthologized in a collection of great short stories.  As a big fan of Berendt's previous book, I dropped everything to read this one.  I'm glad I did.  This intelligent and literate book is wonderful writing.  We'll be talking about it for years to come.  I'd especially recommend the book for anyone who has been to Venice or plans to go as well as fans of Henry James.  The best parts of this book are as good as the work of James himself.	2005-10-03
US	51032984	R2SE252SP0X4A3	0060394358	714949363	Tallulah!: The Life and times of a Leading Lady	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The artist in context	She's been dead for nearly 40 years and she's still controversial.  There were certainly bigger stars, but there was one Tallulah.  In my childhood I remember her as a deep-voiced woman who carried a long cigarette holder and called everyone \\"dahling.\\"  I had no idea that she had at one time been considered a great actress.  She originated two of the great roles of the 20th Century American theatre: Regina in Lillian Hellman's THE LITTLE FOXES and the Sabina in Thorton Wilder's THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH.  She received the New York Film Critics Award as Best Actress for her performance in Alfred Hitchcock's LIFEBOAT.  Opinon was always divided on whether she was truly a great actress or merely a strong charismatic personality.  Her professional achievements were overwhelmed by an oversized caricature of herself she popularized on radio. Rumors of her offstage behavior did not help matters.  There have been several other biographies of Tallulah since her death.  They have tended to focus on the sensational aspects of her life.  Joel Lobenthal has subtitled his book, THE LIFE AND TIMES OF A LEADING LADY.  He examines the life of the artist and the context in which she lived and worked.  This is a detailed work.  He gives synopses of every play Bankhead ever appeared in and lets us know how critics, public and co-workers assessed her performances.  He does not neglect the seamier side of Tallulah's life.  Her alcoholism, drug usage, exhibitionism, numerous sexual escapades with members of both sexes are all recounted, often in more detail than previously reported.   But the main focus is on the artist.  Lobenthal has great respect for his subject's artistry, and that is very refreshing.  The detail of this book may bore some people, but for those with a strong interest in the English speaking theatre of the 20th Century, this book will prove informative and provocative.	2005-09-17
US	51032984	R9Q3YWM5V22FM	0312254385	83249936	Werewolves in Their Youth: Stories	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Life among the smugly disappointed	One way I judge the strength of a story is to ask myself whether it would ever be anthologized and maybe studied in future literature classes.  I don't think any of these stories will ever be anthologized in a collection of say, \\"Best Short Stories of the End of the 20th Century.\\"  What's good about these stories is Chabon's gift of observation.  It's been a couple of weeks since I read this book, and I still think of some of the images it contains. He's very good at picking out the salient detail and describing it in a way that gives it a resonance beyond mere description.  Here's a boy with a box of laboratory supplies belonging to his banished father:  \\"I knelt down and wrapped my arms around the carton and lowered my face into it and inhaled a clean, rubbery smell like that of a new Band Aid.\\"  Here's a six-foot-eight athlete- turned- tycoon in a business suit:  \\"He wore silver aviator eyeglasses and a custom-tailored suit, metallic gray, so large and oddly proportioned that it was nearly unrecognizable as an article of human clothing and appeared rather to have been designed to straiten an obstreperous circus elephant or to keep the dust off some big, delicate piece of medical imaging technology.\\"  I think that's good stuff.  I just wish I had been able to become involved in the stories, or maybe have identified with one of the characters once in a while.  Most of the characters are people who are unconnected to their surroundings.  Parents have failed their children, children have failed their parents, ex-spouses want they-don't-know-what from each other.  The book is populated almost exclusively by people who are resigned to failure.  As a result, there's a certain smug undertone to all the stories that I found off-putting.  I did not find any of the stories very emotionally involving.  My basic reaction to each story was a smirk.  Considering Chabon's legions of fans, surely his reputation does not rest on his short stories.  One of these days I'll give oneof his novels a try.	2005-09-12
US	51032984	R13ZT6BU0SB2QV	0691070555	604455501	The Age of the Bachelor	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Insightful and Enlightening	Once in a while a book comes my way that gets me to see the world in a whole new way.  Howard P. Chudacoff's THE AGE OF THE BACHELOR is one of those books.  Chudacoff traces the influence on (and place in) American society of the unmarried adult male over roughly the last 120 years. Economics and demographics have played a big part in the changing role of unmarried men, from the days of the pitiable \\"old bachelor\\" who lived a lonely life in rooming houses of the 1800s to the glamorous \\"swinging single\\" of the late 20th Century.  As more single men gained larger disposable incomes, entrepreneurs found ways to glamorize and exploit the unmarried condition, creating new markets and new values.  This not only changed the lives of single men, but the society as a whole, as women, too, began to challenge the idea of the married state being the ideal one. I found this fascinating reading.    One of the major discussions of the book is the changing definition of what it means to be a man. How do men's lives differ from women's lives?  Whereas females have a lot of generational interaction in their lives, males, with the advent of the move from agrarian to urban living, lost the mentoring influence of their fathers and developed same sex friendships almost exclusively among their contemporaries. Females tend to form relationships based on support and sympathy, whereas competition serves as the major tie among males.  In the absence of time spent with the family, other venues of male camaraderie, like the saloon, the pool hall and the sports arena evolved.    The book contains many statistical tables and hefty appendices of notes and bibliography.  But this is not a plodding book for specialists. I found it lively and entertaining with one insightful page after another. This is one of the most enlightening books I've read in a long time.	2005-08-18
US	51032984	RNVPA438SZAKP	060980765X	948877682	Tulipomania : The Story of the World's Most Coveted Flower & the Extraordinary Passions It Aroused	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Informative light reading	Perhaps a better title would be \\"A few episodes in the long history of the tulip.\\"  This book is worth reading although I felt that a lot of pages were spent making the same point over and over.  But for me it provided a nice introduction to Dutch history (of which I am completely ignorant) as well an explanation of how an economic \\"bubble\\" works.  (Alas, I see a parallel to some current economic situations.)  But Dash deals with more than the Dutch mania.  He also provides a fairly clear intro into workings of the Ottoman Empire, where the tulip originated and where it later had a renaissance of fashion.  He ends the book with a brief discussion of modern developments in tulip breeding and how the world-dominating Holland bulb industry owes its current state to the Tulipomania of the 17th Century.  There is also an amusing story at the end of a Chinese \\"Spider Lily\\" mania that occurred at the end of Maoism.  This is an informative little book that I would recommend to those with an interest in history, gardening or economics and who don't want to start reading a long book just now.	2005-08-05
US	51032984	R7VGNVS3DYVQL	0312961731	697845187	A Murder on the Appian Way: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	The Forest Gump of Ancient Rome	This volume of Steven Saylor's Roman mysteries continues the high standards of the others.  For me, it took a while for the actual mystery to get off the ground, but I found the last quarter rather suspenseful.  What I love most about these books is the depiction of how people in the Roman Republic carried on the ordinary business of living from day to day.  Saylor's descriptive powers get better and better.  Parts of this book are almost poetic.  While the major peg of the story concerns the murder of Publius Clodius on the Appian Way, there are a couple of interesting themes in this book.  One concerns the relationship between masters and slaves.  One of Gordianus's slaves dies in this book, but he gains three more before the book is over.  The slaves and former slaves of all the major players figure into the story.  The book also concerns the relationship between fathers and daughters. Gordianus's daughter Diana is a teenager now with a strong libido.  (Am I the only person who finds Diana disturbing?)  In contrast, Senator Tedius's daughter leads a nun-like life of devotion to her father.  Several characters from the previous volume return--not only Clodius and his exotically beautiful sister Clodia, but Cicero and Tiro as well.  (I do hope that this is the last we've seen of Cicero, though.  He always bogs down the plot.)  Julius Caesar, Marc Antony and Pompey also put in appearances.  (Gordianus is sort of the Forest Gump of Ancient Rome.)    This is a very entertaining book with several comical observations.  I laughed out loud on at least one occasion.  It's not as sexy as some of the previous volumes, but in many ways it has more heart.  There were a couple of places where my eyes misted up.  This is a worthy addition to an outstanding series.  I'm looking forward to the next volume, RUBICON.	2005-07-29
US	51032984	R2YMTFR52OO51X	0306806681	892333058	Getting To Know Him: A Biography Of Oscar Hammerstein II	Books	4	10	10	N	N	More like getting acquainted with him	Oscar Hammerstein II was among the 20th Century American theatre's most influential writers, along with Eugene O'Neill and Tennessee Williams.  With SHOWBOAT in 1929 and OKLAHOMA in 1943, he revolutionized the Musical.  Thanks to Hammerstein, a collection of pop songs and jokes strung together on a flimsy plot would never again be enough.  For the most part, Hammerstein seems to have been born with a silver spoon in his mouth.  He was the third generation of a prominent theatrical family at a time when the American theatre was really developing its own personality, although it had strong ties to foreign plays.  He had an easy entry into his chosen profession and was able to collaborate with successful composers (Sigmund Romberg, Rudolf Friml, Jerome Kern) from the very beginning.  He wrote plays as well as musicals, but so many of his plays were flops that his career evolved into one in which he wrote only musicals, and ultimately concentrated his energy exclusively on writing lyrics.  He seems to have had the golden touch until he suddenly went into an eleven year decline in which everything he was involved with failed.  He was considered a has-been.  And then Richard Rodgers approached him about replacing his incapacitated collaborator Lorenz Hart.  Rodgers & Hammerstein became the most successful partnership in the history of the American theatre, producing such super hits as OKLAHOMA, CAROUSEL, SOUTH PACIFIC, THE KING AND I and THE SOUND OF MUSIC, in addition to the also profitable ME AND JULIET and FLOWER DRUM SONG as well as the out-and-out flops ALLEGRO and PIPE DREAM.    Toward the end of an unhappy first marriage, Hammerstein met the stunning Australian beauty Dorothy Blanchard, who was also married, while on a ship crossing the Atlantic.  Their rapport was immediate and they carried on a long flirtation before divorcing their respective spouses and marrying.  It was to be a supportive and fulfilling marriage for both of them.  He made many famous friends and was mentor to young neighbor Stephen Sondheim, who has provided a thoughtful introductory essay.  He seems to have been beloved by virtually everyone.  However, the title here is a bit misleading, since after reading this book it appears that no one really \\"knew\\" Oscar Hammerstein II.  Most of the time he was a remarkably closed person who best expressed himself in his writing.  After he died, Richard Rodgers said that he never knew whether Hammerstein liked him or not.  There are a lot of things I wish Fordin had gone into more detail about, especially the creation of the shows, but it does contain information that is not easily found anywhere else.  I had not been aware that the role of Doc in PIPE DREAM, based on Steinbeck's SWEET THURSDAY, was written for Henry Fonda.  Fonda took singing lessons and wanted to do it.  He auditioned for Rodgers and Hammerstein and was rejected.  Fonda was also married to Hammerstein's stepdaughter, Susan Blanchard.  On the whole I found the book very satisfying.  Four stars.	2005-07-10
US	51032984	R3OQUAMHMGDVZI	0385493703	577685195	Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard	Books	3	6	10	N	N	A poetic farce.  Well, almost.	HULLABALOO IN THE GUAVA ORCHARD is an intriguing first novel by a talented author.  This book is filled with eccentric characters and screwball situations.  The main situation of the novel concerns a ne'er-do-well son who gets fired from the post office (where all he did was read other people's mail) and retreats to a tree in the guava orchard and refuses to come down.  When a tribe of monkeys befriends him, he becomes a celebrity saint, \\"The Monkey Babu.\\"  For most of her book, Ms. Desai carries off the splendid trick of writing a poetic farce that nonetheless deals with bigger issues.  (Where is the fine line between religious ecstasy and insanity?  What is so normal about the quotidian life?)  But even with as short a novel as this one, she could not sustain it.  She lost me when the deranged mother decided she would cook a monkey.  This act seemed so repellent to me that I backed off from a story that I had been enjoying immensely.  I had laughed aloud several times.  My favorite scene was when the monkey snatched the grandmother's ice cream just as she was biting into it and carried off her dentures.  There is an outrageous sense of humor at work here.  But the tone switched to the macabre and ruined the book for me.  With her zany sense of humor and her sumptuous command of the English language, Ms. Desai shows great promise.  I admire her ambition.  But she must learn to maintain consistency of tone.  I look forward to her future work.	2005-07-08
US	51032984	R3P8616PMP5LGJ	0395957869	660058134	The Road to Ubar: Finding the Atlantis of the Sands	Books	3	7	10	N	Y	Technology makes it easy	I basically enjoyed THE ROAD TO UBAR..  This book tells of Nicholas Clapp's trip to Arabia to try to locate the ruins of the legendary city of Ubar, which supposedly was destroyed by the deity in retaliation for the inhabitants' sinful ways.  Clapp's job is made rather easy by getting the sympathy and support of someone in satellite technology, who locates likely locations from space.  The site is found relatively easily and almost immediately comfirmed. <br /> <br />For an example of what a book about discovery can be, see Hillel Halkin's ACROSS THE SABBATH RIVER or William Dalrymple's FROM THE HOLY MOUNTAIN.  The major problem here, I think, is that author Clapp simply does not have a literary sensibility.  He is a filmmaker.  The book seemed more like a dutiful essay along the lines of \\"What I Did Last Summer.\\"  There's no real passion in the book.  The author's passion was in making the film.  The book is an obligatory appendix to the film.  The book has no real characters; even the author comes across as an amiable cipher.  There's not a lot at stake, either.  I still enjoyed it and found it informative about a part of the world of which I'm rather ignorant.  I was hoping for something more profound. <br />	2005-06-27
US	51032984	R2BCGKNPMBD3XC	0812904397	531385020	Dancing in the dark	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Final ruminations of a man who'd been there and done that	This is fast reading despite the book's thickness.  It has a breezy show-biz style, is full of laughs, and ultimately turns out to pack an emotional wallop.  I hope this book will be reprinted someday, because in a lot of ways it's profound.  Howard Dietz was a guy who made it.  He was head of publicity for MGM when Metro, Goldwyn and Mayer merged.  He thought up the lion with the \\"Ars Gratia Artis\\" motto.  He thought up a lot of memorable blurbs like \\"Gable's back and Greer's got him!\\"  He planned the spectacular premiere of GONE WITH THE WIND.  At the same time he was writing lyrics for Broadway revues like THE BANDWAGON (with special material for stars like Fred Astaire and Beatrice Lillie) which produced songs that became standards, like \\"Dancing in the Dark\\" and \\"Body and Soul.\\"  He had an elegant town house in Greenwich Village.  He hobnobbed with the rich.  He had a yacht (he calls it a boat).  He married three beautiful women (all socialites).  After a while I started thinking that he sure likes to toot his own horn a lot.  He quotes his own witty remarks at parties.  Then I wondered just who he was trying so hard to impress.  But then in 1954, he was stricken with the first signs of Parkinson's disease and he casually mentions from time to time his further deterioration.  He devotes time to his experience as a guinea pig for an experimental drug that helps him dramatically.  At the end I realized that it was himself he was trying to impress.  His body would no longer cooperate, but he had been there and done that.  Hadn't he? <br /> <br />I don't mean to imply that there is anything dour about the book.  He glosses over the failed marriages and the flop shows.  (On the 1964 Broadway musical ANATOL starring Italian film actor Walter Chiari: \\"Barbara Cook and all the singers liked their parts, but our leading man couldn't act, dance, sing or speak English, which was a handicap.\\")  Several parts of it were laugh-out-loud funny, like an outrageous story about FREAKS director Tod Browning or time spent with the Marx Brothers, for whom the world was a no-holds-barred comic improv session.   <br /> <br />There are lots of photographs and a liberal sampling of the lyrics Dietz is proudest of.  It was published in 1974.  Dietz died in 1983 at age 86.  Those with an interest in musical comedy and the early days of MGM will find this book very much worth reading.	2005-06-24
US	51032984	R2UB80ELCN1VLD	0922915687	216502372	Erik Jan Hanussen: Hitler's Jewish Clairvoyant	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Sensational mix of politics and the supernatural	Jan Erik Hanussen was a con man.  But was he also a true clairvoyant?  This hair-raisingly sensational biography draws no conclusions on that point, but raises some compelling evidence.  There has been very little printed in English about the enigmatic Hanussen; and some of the German sources are suspect, as Hanussen himself altered documents and the Nazis destroyed as much evidence about him as possible.  But Mel Gordon has nonetheless come through with a splendid book.  On one level it's a rag-to-riches tale of a poor Jewish boy named Herman Steinschneider who re-invents himself as Danish royalty and develops an act that makes him one of the biggest stars of the era.  But it becomes a kind of political thriller when the closet Jew attracts the admiration of up-and-coming politician Adolf Hitler.  Not only that: the star has made enemies on his climb to the top who now see an opportunity to exact revenge.  The life of Steinschneider/Hanussen was every bit as dramatic as fiction.<br /><br />Parts of this book are disturbing, especially the harrowing scenes of his \\"training\\" a woman for a circus act that involved being run over and having a rock crushed on her.  There are also scenes of Nazi sex orgies in which some of the participants are hypnotized.  One of the most shocking things in the book is the plausible suggestion that Hanussen himself was responsible for the burning of the Reichstag by hypnotizing the ne'er-do-well communist Marinus van der Lubbe and commanding him to set the fire.  This was the event that brought Hitler to power, resulting in World War II and the mass extinction of perhaps as many as six million Jews (with one of the first to go being Hanussen nee Steinschneider).<br /><br />This is a dynamite book.  Its sensational story is supported by more than a hundred black-and-white photographs as well as translated reprints of contemporary newspaper and magazine articles.  The book includes an index, bibliography and notes.  Gordon's thought-provoking book is a formidable accomplishment in the literature about World War II.  Outstanding.provoking book is a formidable accomplishment in the literature about World War II.  Outstanding.	2005-06-19
US	51032984	R2H00UQY7WRHBM	1880284626	284302414	HOW TO WRITE KILLER FICTION	Books	4	15	24	N	Y	Worthwhile	I write primarily for the theatre, but I believe that all writing needs suspense.  Like a novel, a play has a story to tell, so I believe that much of what Ms. Wheat writes in her book is applicable to the dramatic form as well as to prose fiction.  Most valuable to me were those parts dealing with the \\"arcs\\" of a story, which could just as easily describe the \\"acts\\" of a play.  For that alone the book was worth reading.  Ms. Wheat is very good at analyzing a work's structure.  She has increased my ability to recognize what is and is not a turning point.  She's also excellent at explaining how and why a book that starts off thrilling can be a disappointment at its conclusion.  This is where Wheat has something to say. <br /> <br />However, there were several irritating things about the book that I must mention.  First there are several pages that in a magazine would be \\"sidebar\\" stories, clearly delineated from the main text.  This book is laid out in such a manner that one page will end in mid-sentence.  When the page is turned, one sees a list of points the author is trying to make.  What happened to the rest of the rest of the sentence?  Did Amazon send me a defective copy?  No, just turn a page or two more and the sentence will resume.  The other, and far more serious, issue is the author's misuse of pronouns.  She clearly has an axe to grind against men and the English language.  (I offer her picture, which resembles Janet Reno, as supporting evidence.)  Ms. Wheat obviously does not like it that the English language uses \\"he\\" to mean \\"he or she\\" when the antecedent is hypothetical.  Most of the time Wheat uses \\"she,\\" which there is nothing wrong with.  However, there IS something wrong with using a feminine pronoun when the antecedent is masculine.  A \\"hero\\" is a \\"he;\\" a \\"heroine\\" is a \\"she.\\"  I could even forgive this if only she were consistent in her usage.  I offer the following paragraph from page 116, wherein the antecedent changes sex from sentence to sentence within the same paragraph: <br /> <br />\\"One of the tests a suspense hero must deal with is the increasing isolation from his or her usual support system.  This is a vital element in a good suspense novel.  Your hero can't go to the police; they don't believe him when he complains he's being followed by a man who is never there when they come around to check on his complaint. Your hero's friends and lovers tell her she has to \\"get over it\\" and refuse to believe that she's been threatened by a man no one else has ever seen. The hero's isolation may begin earlier, but it is deepened to the point where she is wholly alone in the middlebook [sic].  One by one, her supports fail her. One by one, the social structures she has always depended on disappear or turn actively hostile.\\" <br /> <br />Such usage undermines Wheat's clarity.  It serves no purpose other than to expose the author's discomfort with issues of gender. <br /> <br />The last twenty pages were not very interesting to me, as I have read similar information before in other \\"how to write\\" books.  But this is a good book.  I found parts of it quite valuable.  I will read and study those parts again.  However, I am not this book's target audience, as I am not an aspiring mystery writer.  But for the true would-be mystery/suspense writer I would heartily recommend the book, although I'd have to add the caveats already mentioned.  Three and a half stars, but let's round it off to four.	2005-06-07
US	51032984	RS82K4Q50NRLL	1403962294	687042900	The Crafty Art of Playmaking	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Perhaps the best book ever about playwriting and directing	There are dozens of books out there on playwriting and about half that number on directing.  Unfortunately for us, neither Shakespeare, Chekhov nor Ibsen wrote books on how to write a play.   As a result, virtually all the authors of books about playwriting are academics who have never written a commercially produced play.  One has to question the value of such people's advice when dealing with the practical realities of the professional theatre.  Sir Alan Ayckbourn has changed all that.  He is the author/director of (at this writing) a whopping 69 plays, a substantial portion of which have been critical and/or commercial successes on London's West End and New York's Broadway as well as being translated into numerous languages and produced throughout the world.  The first part of the book is about the craft of playwriting.  Ayckbourn gives his advice in a straightforward series of \\"obvious rules.\\"  First he states the \\"obvious rule\\" and then illustrates it with an example, usually drawn from his own work.  Some of my favorites were, \\"Obvious Rule No. 2: Never start a play without an idea.\\"  \\"Obvious Rule of No. 16: Never include a character with no real function.\\"  \\"Obvious Rule Number 14: At least 50 percent of your play is going to be visual.\\"  \\"Obvious Rule No. 22: You can never know too much about your characters before you start.\\"  Ayckbourn says that he takes about a year of thinking and planning before he actually writes a word of dialogue.  I found this section of the book extremely valuable.  Any playwright or would-be playwright would profit from reading it. <br /> <br />To my surprise, I found the second part of the book, which deals with direction, even more valuable than the first part.  Aside from Harold Clurman's ON DIRECTING, I cannot think of another book about directing that has been written by a successful director.  Clurman's book is very good about reading a script and analyzing it and giving an overall view of how rehearsals are conducted.  Most books on directing provide this information.  But what sets Ayckbourn's book apart is that he talks mostly about dealing with actors.  To the best of my knowledge, no one has written about this aspect.  He tells how to handle fragile egos, how to deal with rivalries, how to state your criticism and the appropriate times to deal with certain issues.  He also gives good advice on conducting auditions and what personality traits to look for when casting.  Advice like this has long been needed. <br /> <br />The book provides valuable information, but what makes it truly brilliant is the charming way it is written.  I found it delightful from start to finish, not to mention inspirational.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough to any theatre professional, not just writers and directors, but actors, designers and technicians as well.  Five stars plus.	2005-05-28
US	51032984	RTX7FORNIDVE7	0822333244	890868173	Imitation of Life	Books	3	12	28	N	N	Suds from a bygone era	Fannie Hurst's 1933 novel IMITATION OF LIFE concerns a recently widowed young mother, Bea Pullman, who by chance teams up with Delilah, a homeless black woman who is in the same situation.  The women move in together and become business partners.  Delilah's daughter Peola is so light-skinned that strangers are surprised that the two are related.  Thanks to Delilah's culinary talents and Bea's business sense, the women manage to build a chain of successful restaurants and become wealthy.  But success has a price.  Peola abandons her mother to \\"pass\\" in white society.  Delilah ultimately dies of a broken heart.  Bea devotes herself to her business so much that she misses out on the passionate love of a man.  When she finally meets a man she really likes, he falls for her daughter.  She ends up bitter, thinking that she has only had an \\"imitation of life.\\"  Who would have thought that such a downbeat story could be successful?  But successful it was, becoming not only a best seller of 1933, but also inspiring two hit films (in 1934 with Claudette Colbert and Louise Beavers and in 1959 with Lana Turner and Juanita Moore).  <br /> <br />I have to admit that I found it very compelling reading on many levels.  I had seen both film versions before reading the book.  The most striking thing about the novel is the subtle racism that permeates the entire book.  I believe the book's racism is unconscious and probably is an accurate reflection of prevalent social attitudes of 1932.  There is no hatred directed toward the blacks in the book.  Delilah is depicted as a good-hearted soul whose only failing would perhaps be an over-eagerness to please.  But there is a subtle condescension that is discomforting for modern readers.  For example, Delilah is at least once addressed by a restaurant customer as \\"Mammy.\\"  Another time a woman says of Delilah to Bea, \\"What a charming mammy!\\" <br /> <br />But what really shocked me about the book was its coded lesbianism.  I have heard it suggested several times that only a physical attraction between the two women makes plausible their so quickly moving in together.  I didn't really get that so much.  Bea has a lesbian relationship with a business tycoon named Virginia Eden.  It is not obvious.  The giveaway is when Virginia Eden sends Bea violets.  In the lesbian underground, when one woman sends another woman violets, she is indicating to her that she wants to have a physical relationship.  (Marlene Dietrich supposedly rang Greta Garbo's doorbell and shoved a bouquet of violets toward her.)  Only those \\"in the know\\" would recognize this as a lesbian proposition.  Someone should examine Fannie Hurst's work for other examples of coded lesbianism. <br /> <br />I found this book a very curious relic from a bygone era.  What was really enjoyable about the book for me was its depiction of New York at the time and contemporary social attitudes.  One thing that must have been shocking at the time is the book's ultimate condemnation of motherhood.  Both the women sacrifice for their daughters and do not live happily ever after.  That gave me a lot to think about. <br /> <br />Every once in a while it is rumored that there will be a new updated film or TV version of the story with current stars, but I don't think that will ever happen.  America has changed too much for that.  There would be no need to \\"pass for white\\" today.  I did enjoy the book, although perhaps not in the way that the author intended.	2005-01-28
US	51032984	R2Q6W9NH42SVJP	0809317664	601516052	Junius Brutus Booth: Theatrical Prometheus	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Welcome addition to the Booth literature	Junius Brutus Booth is largely forgotten today, even by theatre professionals.  Of those who do recognize his name, most would identify him as the father of Lincoln assassin John Wilkes Booth and Shakespearean actor, Edwin Booth.  However, Junius Brutus Booth was probably the first great American actor, even though he never became an American citizen.  Born the son of a London silversmith, he became stage struck as a teenager and by his early twenties was playing major roles in Shakespeare.  But in London, Booth was considered a mere imitator of Edmund Keane.  Seeking to increase his reputation and make money, Booth, at age twenty-five, sailed for America in June of 1821.  He had also just committed bigamy and took with him his second wife, abandoning his Belgian wife and their son.  (There would be later repercussions from this action.)  Booth proved a success in America, earning far more there than he ever commanded in Britain.  He bought a farm in Maryland and sired nine more children as he toured the then young nation, thrilling audiences from New Orleans to Nova Scotia, and later San Francisco.  Booth however was either mentally unstable or an incorrigible alcoholic (perhaps both), leaving a record of eccentric and erratic behavior everywhere he played.  He gave some great performances and some puzzlingly bizarre ones. <br /> <br />Years ago I read Eleanor Ruggles' biography of Edwin Booth, PRINCE OF PLAYERS.  In that book Junius Brutus Booth comes across as a roaring larger-than-life figure.  Archer presents the elder Booth on a more human scale, showing his pain and disappointments, as well as his triumphs.  He also offers a critical assessment of Booth's work, based on contemporary accounts and manages to provide some insight into Booth's stardom.  I found this observation very interesting: \\"Kirk [a critic of the time] shrewdly noted that the intention to produce the effect is often visible; he then added, `In Booth's method the intention was precisely whatwas not visible.'  Modern actors talk about playing the action as opposed to a result; Booth would have recognized the distinction.\\" <br /> <br />It is hoped that Archer will next turn his attention to a new biography of Edwin Booth since PRINCE OF PLAYERS is now more than fifty years old.  JUNIUS BRUTUS BOOTH: THEATRICAL PROMETHEUS is an excellent and very welcome addition to the Booth literature.  It is highly recommended to those with an interest in the history of acting and the early American theatre.	2005-01-23
US	51032984	R1AB6RB2ZRMBH3	0743266390	640284860	The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln	Books	2	31	63	N	Y	Speculative Fiction	I was really looking forward to this book because I personally have believed for a long time that despite marriage and fatherhood Abraham Lincoln was not completely heterosexual.  Now I am not so sure.  I was expecting a lively yet scholarly work that authenticated what I thought.  Instead, I got a lot speculative fiction based upon virtually NO evidence.  I know that Tripp died after finishing the manuscript, but I don't know what he died of.  I suspect it was AIDS Dementia.  This book is insane.  Tripp starts with a documented statement that Lincoln was fond of risqu jokes.  A few pages later that statement has snowballed into \\"Lincoln was sex-obsessed.\\"  The reason for this sex obsession is because Lincoln allegedly went through puberty early.  He bases this theory on the fact that someone said that Lincoln grew a lot when he was nine years old.  The exact amount of this growth was not stated.  Tripp then concludes that Lincoln went through puberty at age nine!  There is no proof of this.  Tripp then asserts that boys who go through puberty early are more likely to have homosexual experiences since they have more access to males to express their budding sexuality.  (And in the process they also become witty, Tripp intimates.)  By similar logic Tripp asserts that John Cook, commander of the Springfield Greys, procured young men for Lincoln.  To Tripp, \\"Cook was very much an insider who well knew Lincoln's tastes in young men ... [Elmer] Ellsworth was not the first whom he had known and approached for Lincoln.\\"  On page 157 he even proclaims that Lincoln was the dominant partner in Lincoln and Speed's alleged homosexual relationship.  He draws this conclusion because Lincoln impregnated his wife immediately and Speed's wife had no children.  What more can I say?  This is crazy.    A quote from Tripp: \\"Freudian psychology is all but dead, and largely a laughingstock to boot.\\"  Tripp's harebrained logic makes even those on the most outlandish edges of the Freudian fringe seem like dispensers of common sense.    Unfortunately, the book is very poorly edited.  There is no consistent style throughout the book.  A couple of chapters use bullet points, a couple of them have sub-chapters.  The quote about Lincoln moving men as if they were on a chessboard is repeated three times.  There are sentence fragments throughout the book as well as an occasional ambiguous sentence.    I'm being charitable with two stars.  They are for the inclusion of a dissenting afterword by Michael Burlingame and a thoughtful introduction by Jean Baker.  They are the only things that give this book any dignity.	2005-01-14
US	51032984	R2JEGC9K3WEUER	0879100958	434605930	Making Musicals: An Informal Introduction to the World of Musical Theater	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Do not collaborate before reading this book	Tom Jones' MAKING MUSICALS is taken from a series of lectures Jones gave for a class in writing musicals.  I found this little book very interesting and full of good advice.  Jones doesn't pretend to tell you everything you need to know to write a musical or give specific techniques to write a hit.  He's merely passing on what he has learned in his very long career as a writer of musicals.  (He started in the 50s writing nightclub revues before hitting paydirt with the American theatre's longevity champ, THE FANTASTICKS, which ran an astounding 42 years.)  He gives a brief overview of the history of musical comedy and some basics about getting started on writing your own musical.  A lot of this information is available in other books, but what really sets Jones' book apart is the chapter on collaboration.  Mr. Jones ought to know a thing or two about collaboration since he and composer Harvey Schmidt had a collaboration that lasted from the 1950s into the 21st Century, when Schmidt chose to retire.  Jones tells how to choose a collaborator as well as how to make a good collaboration last.  This chapter ought to be mandatory for all aspiring collaborators.  (I wish I had read it before my own ill fated attempt at collaboration!)  While hardly comprehensive, this is an excellent little book.  Four stars.	2005-01-10
US	51032984	R33QWFJGBS8VBE	0671793969	916401274	Love, Stars, And All That	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intelligent, ironic and delightful	Gita Dass is a convent-raised 23-year old Indian virgin doing graduate work at Berkley.  Her endearing naivet makes her a modern Alice in Wonderland as she hilariously negotiates her way through an alien culture where all the rules are different.  LOVE, STARS AND ALL THAT is a modern comedy of manners.  Kirin Narayan has a terrific ear for dialogue and a sly point of view that takes delight in revealing the veiled insults inside the compliments and the smiling counterattacks.  I think Oscar Wilde would have loved this book.    It's a very sweet and outrageous story of Gita's maturing from a nave third-worlder who gift-wraps her used menstrual blotting materials to a college professor who wears earrings made from condoms.    I do have some criticism.  I felt that the male characters were less believable than the female characters (which are wonderfully drawn) and that some of the plotting was transparent (especially with the character of Firoze).  I also had the feeling toward the end that the author was trying to shoehorn her story into something that she thought would please a bigger audience demographic.  I didn't really buy the ending.      But basically this is extremely enjoyable light reading that had me chuckling throughout.  With Ms. Narayan's gift for dialogue, she should be encouraged to write for the theatre.  I give the book three and a half stars, but let's round it off to four.	2005-01-01
US	51032984	R59TWQG77K467	0374281696	531526271	Real Time: Stories and a Reminiscence	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Slapdash	This book is subtitled \\"Stories and a Reminiscence.\\"  I'll go with the latter, but in all honesty, there is not, technically speaking, a single short story in the entire book.  Instead, there are a lot of doodlings and undeveloped ideas for short stories.  A couple of these \\"stories\\" are simplified retellings of Indian mythology (although they are incomprehensible without notes), but most of them are little formless vignettes about the author's childhood and youth.  Once in a while there is a poetic image or a minor epiphany, but not one of these \\"stories\\" has a plot.  Although this is a thin book, it was a struggle to finish it.  I do not know what Mr. Chaudhuri's novels are like, but after this inept gathering of \\"stories,\\" I would be loath to read them.  He has talent, but mere talent is not enough.  Good fiction writing needs craftsmanship and structure.  There is very little evidence of either in this book.	2004-12-19
US	51032984	R395F1OMJFIW4G	0679751203	118994081	Vamps & Tramps: New Essays	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Butch, Bitchy and Brilliant	Camille Paglia is one-of-a-kind.  In a way that's too bad, but in another way, thank Goodness!  She's brash, she's obnoxious, she's opinionated, she's full of you-know-what. But she is also extremely intelligent and has an incisive mind that cuts through all the rhetoric and dogma and political correctness to get through to the plain old common sense Truth.  The PC branch of Liberalism has branded her as a right-winger, but I think Paglia has been more than vindicated by the 2004 presidential election.  She has written time and again that if the PC Leftists did not get into the real world, that people would look to the Right for common sense.  And that is exactly what has happened.  She is frankly Lesbian but likes men (she says she is [...]).  Although she criticizes lesbians as having no humor, Camille herself is hilarious.  [...] I laughed all the way through this delightful and refreshing book.  Her withering criticisms of Establishment Feminists and the American Academe are lip-smacking good.  She may be butch, but she's also bitchy.  However, Paglia doesn't just criticize.  She also offers what I think are valid and realistic remedies.  I give this book four stars.  I would have given it five stars, but she contradicts herself several times.  For example, at one point she admits that men need a space without women and then in another section she laments that[...] men won't let her into the raunchier [...] milieus.  So, she wants exceptions made in her case?  Curious, in that the thing she really hates about Establishment Feminism is their always wanting special favors for the poor female \\"victims of male oppression.\\"      I think Camille and her writing are wonderful.  She has the kind of great original American Mind that we have not seen since the days of our Founding Fathers.  Whether you agree with her or not, you cannot ignore her.  (Gloria Steinem and Susan Sontag tried to and just made big fools of themselves.)  Any American who claims to have an intellect MUST read her.	2004-12-18
US	51032984	RGCQKXKBWK084	0340552220	287212294	Paul Gauguin: A Complete Life	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Vivid and disturbing	This is a disturbing story.  My previous knowledge of Paul Gauguin basically came from a subway ad for the New York School of Visual Arts, which stated that at age 35 he was working as a bank teller.  Being a late-bloomer myself, I wanted to know more.  Although this is a long book (565 pages of text plus notes and index), it never got tiring for me.  I remained fascinated all the way through.  Gauguin created some wonderful works, but I really would not want to have known him.  He comes across as very childish and irresponsible (which is perhaps a characteristic that all artists share to some degree).  His journeys to Brittany and the South Seas are rendered in detail as Sweetman unflinchingly documents Gauguin's descent into drug addiction, madness and destitution.  Sweetman also deftly analyzes Gauguin's work and the impact of those influences, creating a vivid portrait of the artist and his world.  Parts of the book are horrifying, especially the descriptions of Gauguin's syphillis-ravaged body.  Gauguin was a strange man and his story is an unsettling one.  I strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art.  The book has many black-and-white photographs of Gauguin and his milieu as well as color reproductions of several of the works discussed.  This book will guarantee a deeper appreciation of Gauguin's work.	2004-12-05
US	51032984	R3QPR3GB80DUA7	0809311100	816152280	Backwards & Forwards: A Technical Manual for Reading Plays	Books	4	18	22	N	Y	Valuable advice	The scope of BACKWARDS AND FORWARDS is narrow, but its ambition is important.  This is a book about how to read a play.  More specifically, it's about how to read a play whose production you are planning.  There are 96 pages in this book and many of them are only partially filled.  Some of them are blank.  So in very few pages, author David Ball gives some valuable and  (I would say, essential) advice.  So many bad productions are bad simply because of a basic misreading of the script.  Ball tells prospective directors what's important and how to recognize what's important.  His advice is very straightforward and concise.  He does not pad the book by going off on tangents or use long anecdotes to illustrate a point.  He makes a point and then moves on to the next one.  I think this book should be compulsory reading for the director, but it is also valuable to the playwright, the actor and the designer.  This book is basic.  There is a great need to get back to basics.  David Ball has done the theatre a great service by writing this valuable book.	2004-12-04
US	51032984	R2C90FN5DINXN8	0618128069	943052295	Mistress of Modernism: The Life of Peggy Guggenheim	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Wealth sanitizes trashy behavior	I had eagerly awaited this book because I had been disappointed in Guggenheim's own CONFESSIONS OF AN ART ADDICT.  I wanted a book that didn't skip over some obvious issues, like the reasons for the multiple marriages and a daughter's suicide.  I was not disappointed in Mary V. Dearborn's MISTRESS OF MODERNISM.  Dearborn delivers a warts-and-all biography that is nonetheless sympathetic, and extremely readable.  I read this book quickly even though I put it down often to think about the implications of what I had just read.<br /><br />Can one have too much money?  As I read this book I wondered if Peggy might have been happier if she had had to work for a living.  As Dearborn points out, Peggy was a \\"poor\\" Guggenheim whose fortune was only a fraction of her Uncle Sol's.  The bohemian crowd that Peggy wanted to be a part of assumed that Peggy's fortune was far larger than it actually was.  As a result, she had the reputation of being a cheapskate even though she supported a handful of people she was not even related to until they died.  (This list would include Djuna Barnes, ex-husbands and ex-husbands' previous wives and widows, etc.)  She also subsidized a lot of other people at various times on a temporary basis.  The people in this milieu seem to have had extremely poor parenting skills.  Peggy and her sisters spent their childhood virtually segregated from adults.  Could that be why she and her surviving sister were such poor mothers?  Peggy's son grew up to be an ambitionless playboy and her daughter Pegeen committed suicide.  Peggy's sister murdered her own two small sons by pitching them off a balcony.  She got away with it.  Peggy, her sister and her daughter were promiscuous and seemingly had voracious sexual appetites.  What set them apart from their peers was that Peggy and Pegeen were open about their affairs.  Peggy practically advertised hers with the publication of her autobiography OUT OF THIS CENTURY and scandalized New York society.  (This book explains that CONFESSIONS OF AN ART ADDICT is an extremely expurgated and revised version of OUT OF THIS CENTURY that Peggy put together years later.  It deals only with Guggenheim's career as a collector.  I would now love to get my hands on the original OUT OF THIS CENTURY!)  Yet, through it all Peggy seems to have had very little self esteem.  The men she was involved with were often physically abusive.  There was a streak of masochism in her.  (Was this a generational attitude?  Peggy's friend Emily (whom she supported) admitted in her diary that she herself enjoyed being beaten.)  I came away with the impression that Peggy was basically a bland person who just wanted to be loved.  She never knew whether she was really loved or whether people just loved her money.<br /><br />This book is very well written and presents brief, vivid minibiographies of virtually the entire dramatis personae.  It has made me curious to see the work of the artists that Peggy promoted.  This book tells an important part of the story of American art in the 20th Century.  Those with an interest in this subject will want to read this book as soon as possible.  I would especially recommend MISTRESS OF MODERNISM to anyone who has visited Peggy's museum in Venice or who is planning to visit there.	2004-11-26
US	51032984	R1FI55R2DYJ50D	0060929804	146114302	Native Son	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Killer finds spiritual redemption through communism	NATIVE SON is divided into three sections, \\"Fear,\\" \\"Flight\\" and \\"Fate.\\"  The first two sections are written in an original, sensational and masterful voice.  NATIVE SON is steeped in the Realistic American style of Theodore Dreiser.  It tells the story of a young black man who, because of his fear of whites, accidentally commits a murder.  He finds this crime on some levels an exhilarating experience and then makes other choices that damn him even further.  The \\"Fate\\" section takes place after Bigger is taken into custody.  At this point what had been fresh and original becomes the purple rhetoric of communist propaganda.  The language of propaganda is clich and the trial scene parades one clich after and another before the reader.  I think this was a tragic misstep on the part of the author.  He ruined his book.  While I zipped through the first two thirds in record time (I actually had to put the book down a few times because it was TOO intense!), the last third was rough going because I'd heard it all before.  I read the first two-thirds in a little over a week.  It took me nearly two weeks to plow through part three.  Of course, the book was published in 1940.  Pioneering works often are regarded as cliches after many years simply because they are imitated so much.  That may be the case here.  I really don't know.  I give \\"Fear\\" and \\"Flight\\" five stars, but \\"Fate\\" gets two stars, so let's average the score to FOUR STARS.  Even though the book is seriously flawed, the good parts are brilliant.	2004-11-14
US	51032984	R16UMJ98EYBTWL	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Game, Great Adventure	This book is certainly not dull.  Despite its length, it's lively and entertaining reading that is also extremely educational.  I am definitely a layman.  My knowledge of this era of competition between Britain and Russia was very shadowy.  What was great about this book is that it filled in so many gaps and helped me make connections to other things I knew.  This book gave me a lot of insight into many things that are seemingly unrelated.  I was shocked to read that the Russian playwright Griboyedov was hacked to pieces while he was serving in a diplomatic post in Central Asia.  (Stage acting guru Stanislavsky devoted an entire book to the interpretation of one of Griboyedov's characters.)  There were connections to the American Civil War, The Crimean War, The Boxer Rebellion, The Russo-Japanese War, the breakup of the Ottoman Empire and the Russian Revolution.  It clarified a lot of Victorian literature for me, both British and Russian.  Kipling's KIM is now more understandable to me and I have a better idea what Count Vronsky did in his military service in ANNA KARENINA.     But for me this book was basically a grand adventure saga, replete with spies, behind-the-scenes wheeling and dealing, ambitious military campaigns and hair-raising sieges.  Parts of it are extremely suspenseful.  There are also passages of pure horror and violence.  I found this book exceptional on many levels.  This is one of the best books I've read this year (and I've read some good things lately).  Five Stars.	2004-10-30
US	51032984	R6KZSC8PB7KYN	091861869X	632851670	The Scorpion	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Grim Lives of Greek Women	Lili Bita is a writer of undeniable talent.  Her writing is passionate and vivid.  However, she is also laden with an undeniable misandry, verging on the pathological.  This collection of stories documents the grim existence of Greek women as Ms. Bita sees it.  The women are all victims, tormented night and day, from the cradle to the grave, by men.  Not one decent male exists between the covers of this book.  They are, to a man, cruel, brutal, insensitive, unfeeling, venal and avaricious beings who exist solely to make women's lives hell.  The women do get revenge occasionally (and I imagine Ms. Bita cackling with joy at these episodes) by a) urinating on the grave of a deceased husband, b) applying a scorpion to an uncaring husband's genitals and c) shooting a runaway father and then crucifying him.  Even if one enjoys this sort of thing, the stories alas have only a primitive development.  In some cases (the title story, for example) there is a virtual deus-ex-machina.  Ms. Bita needs to read Flannery O'Connor to see how one can write violent stories that nonetheless obey the classical unities expounded by the Greeks millennia ago.  Half-baked though the stories are, they do make compelling reading for the strong-stomached.  (There are horrifying scenes of women being brutalized.)  If you know any man-haters, this book would make an excellent gift that would probably be much appreciated.	2004-10-04
US	51032984	R2B6OTL07IN3AF	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Optimistic and life-affirming	What a delightful book this is!  This is an episodic novel that keeps moving forward.  The episodes build up to a beautiful character study.  The protagonist is one Mma Precious Ramotswe, a clever 35-year old Botswanan lady of ample proportions who has a big heart as well.  The book presents her story from the time of her father's wooing of her mother and a childhood of being raised by a kindly cousin who trained her mind after her mother's early death.  When Precious grows up, she marries an abusive man who abandons her when she is pregnant with a child who will only live five days.  But Mma Ramotswe manages to survive and prosper.  With the money her father bequeaths her she sets up The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency.  The book then documents her efforts to make her business a success and her breezy manner of solving mysteries.  She takes on several cases, from women who want to know if their husbands are cheating on them, a strict father who wants to know if his daughter has a boyfriend, a case of medical fraud and disappearance of a child whom she suspects was murdered in a witchcraft ritual.  This is all set before the stunning backdrop of Botswana, which is vividly evoked.  This is a beautiful book.  I don't remember the last time I read a novel as consistently charming and delightful.  I found it very difficult to put down and read it in record time for me.  I love Precious Ramotswe and look forward to her further adventures.	2004-09-29
US	51032984	RAE2KDE00GRRS	1557832447	402559868	Slings and Arrows: Theater in My Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Bravo for the late, great Bobby!	I studied acting with Bobby Lewis back in 1978, which was a great experience.  This book is the next best thing resurrecting Bobby.  Bobby didn't write about his personal life in this book.  It is subtitled \\"The Theatre in My Life\\" and that's what the book is about.  Bobby was small of stature, but was a giant of the American theatre.  He was an original member of the innovative Group Theatre of the 30s and then co-founded (with Elia Kazan and Cheryl Crawford) The Actors Studio.  He acted and directed on Broadway and in Hollywood (during the \\"golden years\\" of both) as well as abroad.  He had some big hits as a director (BRIGADOON and THE TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON, to name two).  But perhaps his greatest gift was that of teaching.  (He taught Anne Bancroft, Maureen Stapleton and Meryl Streep, among many others.)  His lectures on acting that he gave for an invited audience in the 50s were published under the title METHOD OR MADNESS and became perhaps the most influential book on acting for a whole generation.  Bobby was great at using stories to make a point and this book is full of them, some of them hilarious, others unsettling.  This book covers Bobby's very long career, which lasted more than fifty years.  There is the usual parade of celebrities that appears in theatrical memoirs.  This one has some great stories about Chaplin, Tallulah, Brando, James Dean and Marilyn Monroe, among many others.  But the best parts of the book, for me, were those dealing with his philosophy of the theatre and what it ought to be.  If you're serious about acting, get Bobby's METHOD OR MADNESS and ADVICE TO THE PLAYERS, too.  <br /> <br />This book had been on my shelf for about ten years, but I had never gotten around to reading it until now.  What took me so long?  It was very hard to tear myself away from this book and in a way I'm sorry it's over.  Bobby was a great storyteller and I found his book mesmerizing.  His was a great theatrical mind and this book is probably best appreciated by people who work in the theatre or seriously desire to do so.  If you fall into that category, this book will remind you why you went into the theatre in the first place.	2004-09-25
US	51032984	R25RMYXY821NF7	0316136778	880267532	Love and Longing in Bombay: Stories	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The promise continues	In LOVE AND LONGING IN BOMBAY, Vikram Chandra builds upon the extraordinary promise shown in his first novel RED EARTH AND POURING RAIN.  This is a collection of five stories (actually three stories and two novellas) that are very loosely connected.  (I did not buy the connection, by the way.)  Each is set in a different social milieu, revealing a very broad spectrum of modern Indian life.  The first story, about an amputee army veteran exorcising a ghost, is expendable.  The second story, a comic take on Indian high society, is much more entertaining.  The book really takes off, though, with the third story (really a novella), which is a riveting sex/noir police story.  But the best selection is the long story dealing with a gay computer mechanic and his nouveau riche business partner (a female programmer) and their tangled love lives in Bombay's bohemian and business worlds.  The final entry is a melancholy story set in 1945 which tells how an innocent village man woos a young war widow who will not give up hope of finding her missing (and presumed dead) husband.  The collection's total effect is pretty dazzling.  I hope Mr. Chandra will continue to write in a realistic style.  This book is far more interesting than the fantastical RED EARTH AND POURING RAIN, which became tiresome because there was no earthly logic involved in its development.  In this collection Chandra is also more focused than he was in the novel.  This is incisive and poetic language from a mind that has observed two cultures both objectively and empathetically.  The book is not without its flaws.  The first story, apart from the descriptive language, is a string of cliches.  The final story has a Chinese-puzzle structure similar to RED EARTH AND POURING RAIN's that would have become very tiresome had it been any longer.  But I think Chandra has the potential to be a great writer.  He's on the right track.  I very much look forward to his next book.	2004-09-19
US	51032984	R1Q8X6S61XBFVU	1558850600	680563008	The Account: Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion (Recovering the Us Hispanic Literary Heritage)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Walking naked across Texas	Texas history begins n 1528, when a hurricane sank a Spanish ship off the coast of Galveston Island.  Four survivors washed up naked on the shore, including Governor Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca and the black man, Estebano, who had been the slave of one of the drowned men.  Thus begins one of the most remarkable adventures in history.  This book is Cabeza de Vaca's first person account of his experience.  He and his men first became the slaves of hostile coastal Indians who tortured them, but ultimately, after several years in captivity, escaped to go with other more sympathetic inland Indians.  He describes the many Native American tribes he encountered, as well as their customs and how they lived.  Most of them starved when not eking out subsistence on cactus fruit and nuts.  The Indians had never seen a bearded face before and most were in awe of the Spaniards.  They believed he had healing powers and demanded that he heal their sick.  Cabeza de Vaca was a very pious man and called upon his god to help him.  He prayed for patients, made the sign of the cross on their bodies, and extorted the promise that they would henceforth follow the true God.  The sick Indians swore that they had been cured and Cabeza de Vaca became recognized as a powerful shaman, eagerly greeted by the Western Tribes who begged for his blessing.  Cabeza de Vaca was North America's first lay missionary.  Nine years after the shipwreck, he encountered quite by accident another group of Spaniards exploring New Mexico (and capturing Indians to enslave).  Because Cabeza de Vaca insisted upon humane treatment toward the Indians, the cruel Spaniards imprisoned the crazy (and perhaps dangerous) naked man and took him to Mexico City.  After living among the Indians for nine years, Cabeza de Vaca felt uncomfortable wearing clothes and could not sleep on a bed. <br /> <br />This is an extraordinary story, full of wonder, horror and faith.  It is a work of literature.  Those with an interest in Texas history, Native Americans, or the Spanish conquest of America will find this easy-flowing translation extremely compelling reading.	2004-09-07
US	51032984	R1JOT0GUB1EFQ9	0618029982	235631426	Across the Sabbath River: In Search of a Lost Tribe of Israel (In Search of a Lost Tribe of Israel)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	You don't have to be Jewish to love this book	This is an enormously enjoyable book that is both educational and thrilling.  In 1999, Israeli journalist Hillel Halkin accompanied the eccentric Rabbi Avichail to Mizoram (in Northeast India near the Burma border) in order to investigate whether the Mizo people who lived there were indeed the descendants of one of the \\"Lost Tribes of Israel.\\"  Halkin is skeptical and constantly has to challenge Rabbi Avichail's fanatic true-believer mindset.  Then Halkin's own investigative methods begin to reveal surprising things.  This is a fascinating scientific mystery.  Halkin entertainingly gives a clear history of the lost tribes as well as the many theories about what happened to them that have been posited by others over the centuries (including the once popular notion that the Lost Tribes wound up in North America, in which belief the Mormon Church is rooted).  The Mizo people believe that they are Jews and want to get back to their true roots.  They also want to immigrate to Israel for a better life.  As a result they throw themselves into the study of Judaism with the zeal of Holy Rollers at a revival meeting.  Rival synagogues are founded that try to incorporate Jesus into Jewish teaching.  Rabbi Avichail has his hands full when he tries to explain to them that they cannot do that.  The Mizo people had thrown off their indigenous religion in favor of Fundamentalist Christianity at the beginning of the 20th Century.  There are very few people among them who remember anything about the former religion.  Halkin tries to find out what, if anything, their former religion had in common with Judaism. His efforts are hampered, Halkin realizes, by his third-rate con man translator, who is not above creating phony evidence and altering existing evidence.  His investigations hit mostly dead ends until several tantalizing clues and his non-academic approach seemingly solve the mystery in which there were next to no clues. Journalist, linguist and scientist, Halkin is a brilliantman who has written a brilliant book.  I found ACROSS THE SABBATH RIVER a very satisfying reading experience.  Highly recommended.  Five Stars.	2004-09-06
US	51032984	RWUNDVPJO7LLH	0300102615	740527554	Fine and Dandy: The Life and Work of Kay Swift	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Padded	Kay Swift has been a nebulous figure for generations, best remembered as a married woman who had a long affair with George Gershwin.  This affair has never been discussed in much detail in anything I've read.  After Gershwin's early death, Swift destroyed all his letters to her and asked Ira Gershwin to burn her letters to his brother.  Very little documentation of this relationship exists.  Swift was Gershwin's social Pygmalion as well as his assistant, his teacher and his lover.  Born to artistic parents who held responsible positions in society, Swift was a music student when she met and married banker James Warburg.  Unlike most women of the era, Swift was intent on a musical career in addition to her marriage and three children (whom she mostly ignored until they were mothers themselves).  With money and connections, Swift worked her way into the Broadway mainstream, beginning as pit musician and rehearsal pianist, then Geshwin's assistant, and then composer of the hit Broadway musical, FINE AND DANDY.  She divorced the wealthy Warburg in order to make herself available to Gershwin (who had other girlfriends besides Swift).  The proposal never came.  Supposedly Oscar Levant quipped, \\"Look.  There goes George Gershwin and the future Miss Kay Swift.\\"  While she always claimed that her being a woman made no difference in her success or lack of it, it seems to me that having a connection to the Warburg money certainly did make a difference, though.  Although she was not yet forty, her life jumped the track when she divorced Warburg.  She did marry twice more (once to a cowboy), compose music for Radio City Music Hall and three World's Fairs, write a best-selling novel that became a film, she nonetheless wasn't a \\"contender\\" any more.  There's a big difference between being a Broadway composer and being a RICH Broadway composer. <br /> <br />This book has 238 pages of actual text, but it seemed more like 500 because of all the unnecessary and boring details.  The book does not go into the important personal events like the marriages and divorces, but is chock-full of detailed verbal descriptions of obscure musical compositions.  Example: \\"Both Swift's and Debussy's mazurkas feature a three-sharp key signature suggesting F sharp minor, although harmonies wander through unrelated keys and hit at fleeting tonal areas.  Both use mostly triadic harmonies and seventh cords yet abandon strict functional harmony.  Debussy uses half cadences and plagal cadences to avoid finality until the one authentic cadence at the end.  Swift's cadences are more evasive.  They feature traditional linear approaches to tonic in the melody, while the waltz bass confounds convention, moving to the tonic by third or tritone.  Her chords often progress by intervals of a third or move in parallel motion by step, featuring planes of dominant seventh chords in an impressionistic style.  Fluctuations from major to minor occur in several places.\\"  There are pages and pages like this.  There are also detailed synopses of Swift's shows and other compositions.  Other pages appear to be rehashes of the programs at late life tributes.  I didn't read this book to find out which singers-nobody-ever-heard-of performed which forgotten song from an unproduced show at Merkin Hall in 1986.  I appreciate the small bit of useful information contained in this book, but I resent having to wade through all the minutiae to get to it.	2004-08-03
US	51032984	R1GT4U7O2S4WHJ	0140153187	690185018	Bitter Lemons	Books	4	44	46	N	N	A lost time and place	I read this book because I'm planning a trip to Cyprus next year.  My only previous exposure to Lawrence Durrell's work was PROSPERO'S CELL, his evocative memoir of Corfu.  In that book, he tells of having to leave the beautiful island because of the impending World War II.  In BITTER LEMONS, Durrell once again finds an island paradise that he has to leave because of political violence.  The early chapters of the book are mostly humorous sketches about the lazy life of beautiful Cyprus and the colorful local characters.  His happy island home becomes a kind of salon for globetrotting artists and intellectuals.  Then about halfway through the book, political trouble starts brewing and terrorism becomes a fact of daily life, destroying Durrell's friendships with the people he had come to love.  During this crisis, Durrell, a schoolmaster, is enlisted to serve as an administrator in the British government.  There, he finds himself in the frustrating position of watching the crisis escalating all around him and being powerless to do anything about it.  Durrell documents the events leading up to a standoff between the British and the Cypriots, primarily the result of British bureaucratic indifference.  The book is beautifully written.  Durrell was a poet and novelist and his descriptive prose evokes the colors, tastes and smells of the island in a way that is very moving.  I enjoyed the early part of the book more than the parts dealing with politics.  Durrell could easily have written this as two books and, in a way, I wish he had.  The book left me with a terrible sense of loss, but that is perhaps what Durrell intended.  This is a sad book.	2004-07-29
US	51032984	R19S3N5XVOCINQ	0060012587	924923035	The Fabulous Moolah: First Goddess of the Squared Circle	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Don't mess with Moolah!  (but she's still fun)	I got a big kick out of this book and I am NOT a wrestling fan.  In fact, I had never heard of Moolah when I saw the book in the bookstore and looked at the pictures and thought it might be fun.  I was not disappointed.  Oh sure, I wish that the book had been about twice as long and I wish that there were more photographs, but I did enjoy Moolah's stories and her outrageous attitude.  (\\"If I didn't fight dirty, I wouldn't win!\\")  Moolah is larger-than-life and one-of-a-kind.  I think a lot of what she says is pure fantasy (like wresting itself), especially the big whopper she tells that country music legend Hank Williams asked her to marry him.  (It's not like he's around to refute her!)  But that was part of the fun for me.  It's a rather schizoid book in that she flat out says that wrestling is fake (that's why it's called \\"wrestling ENTERTAINMENT\\") and then she goes on and on describing various matches as if they were unrehearsed.  It seems to me that \\"wrestling entertainment\\" is similar to the \\"super hero\\" comic books.  There are heroes, villains and clowns.  When wrestlers are young and attractive, they play the heroes.  When they get older and heavier, they become the villains.  If they are still at it when they are REALLY old, they play the clowns.  Moolah's buddy Mae has played all three roles and Moolah's descriptions of her antics are hilarious.  Also very interesting was Moolah's relationship to Katie, her dwarf protege, whom Moolah always refers to as \\"my damn midget.\\"  (Moolah also appears in a delightful documentary film about women wrestlers that I saw at the Tribeca Film Festival last spring called \\"Lipstick and Dynamite.\\"  I recommend this book and the film.)  I loaned this book to a friend who was in the hospital recently.  He liked the book and passed it around.  The book became very popular with everyone on his floor of the hospital (including some of the night staff).  I also lent it to a friend who has a PhD and she found it delightful too.  Iwouldn't want to tangle with Moolah, but I really enjoyed reading her book.  It's a quick read and very amusing.	2004-07-29
US	51032984	RF0GBQUVMY64B	0553213288	219890586	Moll Flanders	Books	5	30	33	N	N	The first great female character in English prose	I think MOLL FLANDERS is my favorite novel of all time. The novel form was in its infancy at the time MOLL FLANDERS was written. In fact, Defoe is often called &quot;the father of the English novel.&quot; Actually, as a novel it's very primitive. Defoe's fiction is usually a first person narrative told by an ambitious person, recounting how he got where he is today. In Moll Flanders, Defoe presents the autobiography of a woman who rises from an ignominious birth in Newgate Prison, and a childhood as a servant. Early on, Moll learns that she is beautiful and that she is attractive to the opposite sex. What's great about the book is its delicious irony. Oh there are times when she gets caught in her own traps, she's a sly one, that Moll. It's very difficult at times to think of Moll as a fictional character. But she is, in fact, the first great female character in English prose. I never cease to be amazed that the book was written by a man. There are moments in the book that I find very moving, like when she realizes that she's no longer pretty enough to attract men without resorting to makeup. &quot;I never had to paint my face before.&quot; And of course there's that unsettling surprise she receives toward the end of the novel. This is a great and important book and hardly anyone has read it. I don't know why. I have recommended this book to probably a hundred people. To the best of my knowledge, not a single one of them has taken my advice. It's their loss. I LOVE Moll Flanders.	2004-07-25
US	51032984	RIH804X3ERXFL	037575556X	718482935	The Florida Keys: A History & Guide, Ninth Edition	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Maybe the best tour guide ever written	Key West, the only city in the continental US that NEVER has frost, offers an offbeat combination of rednecks, bohemians, fishermen, Cubans, gays, retirees and artists in a delightfully laid-back setting once you get off the bustling tourist Mecca, Duvall Street.  (Both Hemingway and Tennessee Williams had homes in Key West.  It's now a popular residence for country singers.)  In this delightful book, writer/Key West resident Joy Williams has provided both a work of literature and an extremely practical tour guide, making it ideal for both the active tourist escaping winter and the armchair traveler curled up by the fireplace.  In addition to the colorful history of the keys (with Williams' own humorous commentary), the book contains practical information on what to see, what to do, where to eat, and where to stay.  Williams' descriptions of the local businesses provide some of the book's zaniest observations.  (She points out the most interesting items to be found in the stores, from tourist traps to boutiques to convenience grocers.)  I've been to Key West four times now and I always carry this book with me.  Although the book focuses on Key West, it does give information all the other major keys, as well as the Dry Tortugas.  This book is guaranteed to enhance your Key West experience.  Five stars! <br />	2004-07-24
US	51032984	R128OBXT8H71I0	0312957785	687649856	The Venus Throw: A Mystery of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Surprising philosophical &literary depth in a bang-up story	With THE VENUS THROW Saylor returns to top form.  His combination of historic detail, mystery and eroticism makes very compelling reading.  This is probably Saylor's most mature book to date and threatens to break out of the mystery/history genre and into literature.  In the opening scene of the book we meet a hulking diplomat in female drag and a fine-boned eunuch disguised as a man who have come to Gordianus for shelter from those trying to murder them.  Thus Saylor signals right off the bat that sex roles in Roman Society are going to be a major theme.  One major thread in this rich tapestry concerns the lives of women.  Although Bethesda (formerly Gordianus's slave and now his wife) and the profligate aristocrat Clodia come from opposite ends of society, their womanhood binds them together along with Diana (the adolescent daughter of Bethesda and Gordianus) and Zotica, a sexually abused slave girl.  Venus, goddess of femininity is invoked throughout the book via outsized idols and gambler's oaths.  Then there are the exotic Egyptian eunuchs, neither man nor woman, who serve The Great Mother, Cybele.  (There's a fairly detailed description of the ritual by which the eunuchs of that cult castrate themselves in a fit of religious ecstasy.)  The book has many exotic settings where exhibitionism/voyeurism, sexual promiscuity and perversion (sadomasochism, incest), poisonings and stabbings, political intrigue, jealousy and revenge are enacted.  Among the settings are a sleazy tavern frequented by crooks, bohemians, gamblers and downwardly-mobile prostitutes, bathhouses where homosexual acts are commonplace, and a lady's country hideaway where she can be surrounded with good looking naked young men hired to do her bidding.  Throughout the book we have Gordianus' respect for the truth at war with his desire to believe the best about people.  Gordianus is a moral man in an immoral society.  The book's climax is a riveting trial scene wherein Cicero brilliantly turns thetables on his client's opponents.  The mystery element of this book is probably the best of the Sub Rosa series so far.  I certainly did not guess the murderer and was rather shocked when the truly disturbing truth was revealed.  With this book Saylor proves himself an author of surprising philosophical and literary depth.  I very much look forward to the future volumes in this series.	2004-07-24
US	51032984	R3K6KZCFI9CSFU	0316132934	950537065	Red Earth and Pouring Rain: A Novel	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Ambition and talent in need of an editor	I basically enjoyed this book, but after finishing it I slightly resented having spent so much time reading it.  Like MIDNIGHT'S CHILDREN, RED EARTH AND POURING RAIN is a sprawling, ambitious novel with strong exotic elements depicted in vivid prose.  However, like MIDNIGHT'S CHILDREN, it is also FAR too long and could have easily been pruned of at least a hundred pages.  The story of Kyrie, for example, despite taking up many pages, added nothing to the main story and could easily have been dispensed with.  I also think that knowledge of Indian history, Hindu mythology and the rules of cricket would be helpful to properly appreciate this book.  My knowledge of these subjects is very vague, so I'm sure there's a lot I missed.  There are several stories going at once and not all of them have logical ties to each other.  There are a lot of loose ends.  I also feel that the whole tone of the book shifted right around the time the glowing child was born.  The supernatural and allegorical elements came to the forefront and the story became tedious.  (A character I liked changed his personality and chopped off his own head!)  What was the point of continuing reading if everything I had read before didn't matter any more?  This happened at about 400 pages into the book, so I felt obligated to finish the final 142 pages.  It was a chore.  I hope that the author will someday revise this book and get rid of all the extraneous and inconsistent elements.  There's an excellent novel buried in this stack of words somewhere.  I think Chandra is talented and I look forward to reading his short stories in LOVE AND LONGING IN BOMBAY.  Perhaps in the shorter form he can be a more disciplined writer.	2004-07-06
US	51032984	R17TU3BZKT619D	0684853000	893214399	Beach Boy: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Coming-of-age in an exotic milieu	I read this book a year ago and it really didn't impress me all that much.  However, a year later I'm still thinking about it, so it is obviously better than I thought.  In some ways it's like an Indian CATCHER IN THE RYE, but (and this is a big \\"but\\"), I really never believed that the narrator of the book was a child.  That, to me, is the book's major flaw.  Otherwise, it's quite an entertaining story set in the milieu of upper class India.  I was fascinated by Vakil's keenly observed descriptions of that milieu, with its aping of Western culture and games of one-upmanship.  Like Holden Caulfield, protagonist Cyrus Readymoney is a privileged child who is lonely.  The book maps Cyrus' attempts to both please his parents and find his own identity.  Along the way are trips to the movies (with some hilarious descriptions of Bollywood films), tennis competitions (with his domineering mother's insistent exhortations that he win), and hanging out with friends he has very little in common with.  I found this bittersweet coming-of-age story to be enjoyable light reading that has some emotional resonance as well.  Those who have an interest in contemporary Indian fiction will enjoy reading about a different level of Indian society than is usually depicted.	2004-07-04
US	51032984	R19WJBQOHQTB5I	0385313616	189993792	Shakespeare A to Z: The Essential Reference to His Plays, His Poems, His Life and Times, and More	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great fun for the Shakespeare fan!	I love this book.  It's fun to keep it handy and just flip through the pages from time to time.  Charles Boyce presents from A (\\"Aaron\\" in Titus Andronicus) to Z (Zeffirelli, Franco\\"), an outrageous potpourri of the fictional and the real, the historic and the apocryphal, the comic and the scholarly.  It's crammed with commentary, scene-by-scene synopses of plays, character background, background on the sources for the plays, biographical information on Shakespeare and lots of fun trivial information, too.  I know my Shakespeare fairly well, but this delightful book always teaches me something new.  (For example, there's an entry for the real-life inspiration for Shakespeare's line in HENRY VIII about \\"some Indian with the great tool come to court.\\")  I think this book would be a great gift for Shakespeare fans.  And if you're going to get a Complete Works for the student you know, why not splurge and get this one, too?  It's the perfect companion to Shakespeare and easily accessible to all ages.	2004-06-27
US	51032984	R1V1RKAF7IPHFW	0312156472	693039676	Schliemann of Troy: Treasure and Deceit	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The Case Against Schliemann	David Traill investigates the Schliemann biographies (largely based unquestioningly upon Schliemann's own writings and statements) and finds that most of Schliemann's story is fiction.  In the process, Traill reveals Schliemann to be an enigmatic figure as bizarre as any fictional character.  Phenomenally ambitious and extremely intelligent, he was also completely unscrupulous when it came to getting what he wanted.  In his pursuit of fame, Schliemann reinvented himself a number of times, from county to country (he spoke several foreign languages with complete fluency and perfect pronunciation), business to business, marriage to marriage.  Through his business dealings he became wealthy enough to devote all his time to his archeological interests.  Archeology was a young science then and Schliemann was not a professional.  The way Traill paints Schliemann, we are fortunate that the bulldozer had not been invented then.  In his zeal to excavate Homer's Troy, he virtually demolished it.  Traill builds a convincing case that Schliemann \\"salted\\" his diggings with fake artifacts both at Troy and Mycenae.  The \\"Mask of Agamemnon\\" is probably a fake.<br />The story of the marriage to the final Mrs. Schliemann is a fascinating one in itself.  He virtually bought her from her parents in an arranged marriage when he was over 40 years of age.  He molded her into the wife he wanted, forcing her to study night and day to become as fluent in languages as he was, converting a nave girl into his helpmate and intellectual companion as well as his fellow archeologist.<br />Traill probably goes overboard in his zeal to discredit Schliemann.  He wants to make his case so strongly that he goes for overkill.  There were times when I wanted to say to the author, \\"Yes, he was an S.O.B., but you said that already!  Now get on with it!\\"  As a result this book was not an easy reading experience for me.  However, I feel that this book is essential reading for anyone who has an interest in archeology.  It certainly reveals the importance of questioning evidence and investigating the sources.  There are more balanced accounts of Schliemann available, but Traille's book gives a good context to place them in.	2004-06-20
US	51032984	R134N03J8T71G7	1558174737	794539201	What Does Joan Say?: My Seven Years As White House Astrolager to Nancy and Ronald Reagan	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fascinating insight into the Reagan presidency	This book should be a lot better known.  Not only does it provide a fascinating insight into the Reagan presidency, but it also does a good job of explaining exactly what a professional astrologer does and how he works.  As Quigley explains it, astrology is not fortune telling, but a useful tool for making the most of opportunities and minimizing setbacks.  Could it have been astrology that was Reagan's \\"teflon\\"?  As the Reagans' personal astrologer, Quigley chose the timing of Air Force One's departures, congressional arm-twisting meetings, press conferences, the timing and locations of summit conferences; gave advice on how to handle Mikhail Gorbachev and what demands to make in negotiations.  She was also responsible for the remaking of Nancy Reagan's public image.  Those who know something about astrology will nod in recognition at a lot of Quigley's insights; those who scoff at astrology will be drop-jawed.  Ms. Quigley writes well, although I detect the hand of an editor in several places, especially on those occasions when Quigley attributes remarks to Mrs. Reagan disparaging the elder Bush.  These sentences are inconsistent with the tone of the rest of the book and appear to have been inserted to give the book some \\"dirt.\\"  I found this a fascinating book and would recommend it to anyone interested in astrology or in the Reagan presidency.  There's a lot to ponder here.	2004-06-13
US	51032984	R1W2304WNUVW4L	1585673455	429992226	Hitler and the Power of Aesthetics	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A revelation.  A very important book.	I had never previously read books that dealt with Hitler or World War II before reading this one.  Like every other Baby Boomer, I've seen enough films and TV shows to write my own WWII movie that most people would probably find credible.  What we know of the war is about the fighting, the arrests of those pronounced \\"undesirable\\" by the Nazis, children denouncing their parents to the authorities, the concentration camps, etc.  The Germany that Hitler presented to his people was a forward-looking state of culture and enlightenment, the acme of modern civilization.  People want to believe the best about themselves.  Hitler had an instinctive sense of theatre, a passion for ritual, and the desire to make everyone in the entire world subservient to him, as well as the power to squelch all opposition.  In some ways, he was visionary.  The Volkswagen was mostly his idea.  (It was created to justify his building of the Autobahn, which is still one of the wonders of modern Germany.)  But he wanted everyone to have HIS taste.  Only his taste was acceptable.  Everything else was either kitsch or decadent.  Disagreement meant losing one's job in most cases or, in some extreme cases, a one-way ticket to Auschwitz.  Of course, the most troubling aspect of Hitler was how he could have gotten so many people to go along with him.  For me this book explains it.  I think this is an important book that made me see things from a different perspective.  Parts of the book made me drop my jaw.  \\"Awesome\\" is an overused word, but it really is the applicable term here.  The author made me extremely interested in a subject that basically had little appeal for me.  I want to do a lot more reading about this subject now.  Spotts' book is a knockout.  It gets five stars from me.	2004-05-30
US	51032984	R2PQO6PXTD8JHT	0910542740	724146630	Greek: Language 30 (Greek Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	It works!	This course is excellent.  I was originally trying to learn Greek with Hugo's Greek in Three Months, but when after 4 months I was not even halfway through, I decided I'd try Language 30.  This was a very smart thing to do.  I listened to the tapes every day for three months. .By the time I got to Greece 3 months later, I was able to say everything I needed to say and understand everything I needed to understand.  I was amazed.  I had no problems, even in remote areas where no English is spoken.  My Greek neighbors at home tell me my pronunciation is excellent.  The good thing about the course is that if you decide to study Greek seriously after your trip, you already have a lot of practice using proper grammar and a seemingly instinctive knowledge of sentence patterns.  If you're planning to study Modern Greek in the fall, you could spend 22 minutes a day all summer listening to one side of each tape and have a huge head start that would no doubt make you the star of the class.  Since each side is only 22 minutes long, it's not too difficult to squeeze in a few minutes of study that would otherwise be wasted.  I found that I retained more if I listened to one side of one tape until I could respond quickly to at least 50% of the exercises before moving on to the next side of the tape.  I listened to the tapes on my Walkman while on the treadmill at the gym and studied the phrasebook while I rode the subway to and from work, so learning Greek did not take up a lot of my time. I would recommend this course very highly for travelers and for students.  It gets five stars from me.	2004-03-22
US	51032984	R4ZQRON6T5VU7	0060930942	609980992	Three Roads to the Alamo: The Lives and Fortunes of David Crockett, James Bowie, and William Barret Travis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Three cheers for &quot;Three Roads&quot;!	The settlement of new territory comes in three phases.  The first are the trailblazers, like Davy Crockett and Daniel Boone.  Then come the speculators seeking to make a quick profit (like James Bowie) and then come the \\"nesters,\\" the teachers, lawyers (like William Travis), homesteaders who make a community.  William O. Davis' fascinating book offers three short biographies of three very different men and how they all came to meet their fate at the Alamo.  Crockett is the most endearing.  He comes across as a very sweet-natured and good-hearted person who strives very hard to improve himself.  Bowie was an out-and-out crook and con-man.  (His story is really pretty shocking to someone who grew up with the hagiography of Texian heroes!)  Travis also had a few skeletons in his closet, in that he came to Texas to escape an unpleasant personal situation elsewhere.  But people like these men were the founders of The Republic of Texas.  It's my observation that some of the most successful Texans have combined aspects of all these men.  (Lyndon Johnson and Ross Perot immediately come to mind.)  Even though I'm a native Texan (some my ancestors came to Texas with the Robertson colony and another fought at San Jacinto), there were a lot of things that were new to me in this book.  This is insightful and incisive writing.  I recommend it to all lovers of Texas history.  It has deepened my understanding of everything else I have read on the subject.	2004-03-08
US	51032984	R3ECK6YG5L8C77	0195074734	404117876	The Poets of Tin Pan Alley: A History of America's Great Lyricists (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent overview	This is an excellent book.  Furia provides a fine overview with lyric analyses of all the major lyricists of the first half of the 20th Century.  He also touches upon the history of Tin Pan Alley itself and other developments that were happening at the same time in music, like the rise of the film studios, the creation of ASCAP and BMI, and the \\"race\\" and \\"hillbilly\\" recordings which helped bring about the end of Tin Pan Alley dominance.  Furia later wrote full biographies of Ira Gershwin and Johnny Mercer that are more complete.  (He would do the world a great service if he would write a decent book on Dorothy Fields.)  THE POETS OF TIN PAN ALLEY is highly recommended for all lyricists and anyone who has in interest in American popular song.	2004-01-01
US	51032984	RQ62US396F747	0713994606	289712823	Anna Karenina (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A classic for a reason	I'm usually reluctant to read long books originally written in a foreign language because so many translations sound stilted or else make everyone sound like an Englishman.  This translation by Richard Peavar and Larissa Volokhonsky is natural sounding and evocative of the time period without being archaic.  It uses standard American English without being slangy.  The only British-ism I found in the whole book was when a character goes to the theatre and sits in the \\"stalls.\\"  (I'll bet a lot of Americans don't know that the \\"stalls\\" means the orchestra section.)  But that is being really nitpicky.  This translation is outstanding.  I saw both of the old movies based on ANNA KARENINA (the Garbo version and the Lupe Velez version), so the book was far more interesting than I was expecting it to be.  Anna herself is only one of many intricately delineated characters.  Her story is only a part of it.  Tolstoy is pondering bigger issues than an ill-fated love affair.  He presents a whole society.  His psychological insight is really remarkable.  I loved the scenes in which he depicted what people were thinking and feeling toward each other while outwardly having a mundane conversation.  I'm a middle-aged man.  The book probably means something different to me than it would to a teenage girl, but Tolstoy has something for everyone.  This is a great and powerful novel that is a classic for a good reason.  This terrific translation makes it accessible to a whole new generation of Anglophones.	2003-12-19
US	51032984	R3LXL01XHM09	0312972962	185709915	Roman Blood: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Highly entertaining detective story set in ancient Rome	I have probably read only a handful of detective fiction in my entire middle-aged life.  The genre never really appealed to me.  But I've always been crazy about the Roman Empire, being a life-long fan of movie epics like SPARTACUS, QUO VADIS, BEN HUR and CLEOPATRA.  I got a big kick out of ROMAN BLOOD.  It's a detective story set in ancient Rome.  Gordianus the Finder is a wonderful character.  Who knows whether there ever was such a thing as a \\"finder\\" back in those days?  It doesn't really matter.  In Gordianus, Steven Saylor has created a brilliant device that allows the reader, through a myriad of interesting details, to feel that he actually IS in ancient Rome.  When we first encounter Gordianus, he lives in a crumbling villa with his slave woman Bethesda (whom he eventually manumits and marries) and has a hangover from too much wine the previous evening.  ROMAN BLOOD is the case that starts Gordianus on an illustrious career as a Roman private eye, because this is the case on which he meets Cicero.  Their association coincides with Cicero's rise from obscurity to celebrity.  Gordianus' exploits are set against actual historical events and over the multi-volume series Gordianus matures physically and emotionally, prospers in his career, marries and has children (who grow up to become Roman citizens).  This all occurs during what may have been Rome's most turbulent period, when the Republic was supplanted by the Empire.  ROMAN BLOOD is highly entertaining historical fiction.  I learned a lot from it, too.<br />I'm no judge of mysteries.  I have read few other mysteries to compare it to.  Whodunit did surprise me, however.  I really enjoyed ROMAN BLOOD and have read the next three volumes in this series.  I usually save these books for when I have to travel.  They're good paperbacks to read while waiting in an airport or flying long distances.  Time passes very quickly in Gordianus' company.  It's not wasted time, either.  There's a lot to ponder in these books.	2003-11-15
US	51032984	R1SVKH8Y6XCNHT	0520085116	107502758	The Roman Empire and its Germanic Peoples	Books	4	21	28	N	N	Not easy reading, but worth the effort	My reason for reading this book is that I wanted to know more about Roman Germany after visiting several sites in West Germany.  I've had a lifelong interest in the Roman Empire and loved my Latin classes in high school.  Since then I've occasionally read books about the Roman Empire.  I am certainly not an expert in this field.  This particular book is not easy reading.  It is a serious, scholarly work in a solemn translation from the German.  However, if one has the patience to plow through, it can be quite rewarding and provocative.  I felt I was tracing the roots of our own culture when the author showed that so many of the tribes had a religion around a sacred sword.  The author didn't mention Excalibur, but it immediately came to mind.<br />Roman Germany turned out to be far different than I had simplistically imagined.  It was not a matter of conquering and occupying.  There was a lot of wheeling and dealing going on.  One system simply evolved into another over time.  This book was tremendously informative to me.  I feel that my understanding of the so-called \\"Dark Ages\\" is radically improved.  As I said, this is not an easy read.  It takes time and concentration.  But I felt it was worth it.	2003-11-08
US	51032984	R1SM6083HDW52D	0805210318	766893593	Light on Yoga: The Bible of Modern Yoga	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The authority	I regard this book as the true arbiter of the correct way to perform all yoga asanas.  LIGHT ON YOGA has many things going for it.  First of all, Iyengar goes into great detail about the positions.  I've never seen another yoga book that goes into such detail.  He doesn't make any assumptions.  He also gives valuable advice such as \\"persons over forty should not attempt this asana for the first time\\" for some of the asanas.  (I wish I had read this book before attempting the Scorpion for the first time at age 45!)  The second thing I really like about the book is that it is Iyengar, an older man, who demonstrates the postures in the hundreds of photographs, rather than a trim 30-year old woman in a leotard like 9/10ths of all other yoga books.  There are zillions of books out there on yoga, many with profuse illustrations and photographs, but none of them even comes close to LIGHT ON YOGA.  This is a very valuable reference book.  Any person who is serious about yoga should have this book.	2003-10-27
US	51032984	RHUFUCI0IBYFN	0375413286	275340250	Everything Was Possible: The Birth of the Musical "Follies"	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Best book about Broadway since The Season	In 1971 Ted Chapin was a 20-year old college student who found a way to wangle a job as a production assistant (gofer) on FOLLIES and get college credit for it.  No doubt, Chapin's family connections helped him a great deal (which he readily admits) and I'm sure that because of it he was treated with far more respect than the average gofer.  But connections or not, he was still a kid in love with the theatre.  Chapin's youthful enthusiasm and hero worship shine through the book.  The part that really melted my heart was when realizes he's the first person to type the lyrics for a new Sondheim song, \\"I'm Still Here.\\"  And you realize that even though today Chapin is powerful and successful, he still takes great pride in having been the first person to type the lyrics for \\"I'm Still Here.\\"<br />At the time of FOLLIES it was not unusual for shows to go into rehearsal with large sections of the script (the ending, for example) marked, \\"To Be Written.\\"  (Things are not like that today.)  There are changes that happen in rehearsals, such as taking away \\"Losing My Mind\\" from Alexis Smith and giving it to Dorothy Collins.  (It finally worked!)  We see the changes that the show makes in its Boston tryout and the differences they make.  There are great photos of the stars in the wigs and costumes that didn't work and were discarded.  We read about the dramatic changes that happen when \\"Can That Boy Foxtrot\\" gets replaced by \\"I'm Still Here\\" and \\"Uptown and Downtown\\" gets replaced by \\"Lucy and Jessie.\\"  Then there were the trials of Alexis Smith losing her voice and Gene Nelson's son becoming involved in a life-threatening situation on the West Coast.  Could the understudies go on?  They've had no rehearsal at all!  The cast was composed mostly of older people who had difficulty remembering lines and learning dance routines, in addition to being terrified to move on Boris Aronson's severely raked stage.<br />I liked all the detail that Chapin includes in the book, like what the show was like from the orchestra pit, how the lyric sheets were punctuated, visits to the scene and costume workshops, etc.  Chapin vividly presents a large cast of characters.  I got a kick out of old Ethel Shutta getting off a few zingers at Fifi D'Orsay's expense.  Early in rehearsals Yvonne DeCarlo appears to take a shine to young Chapin and he becomes her frequent escort, much to the horror of Hal Prince and Stephen Sondheim.  Dorothy Collins supposedly told her to \\"Keep your hands off that nice young man.\\"  We see Alexis Smith working with everything she's got to make the show her own, all the while denying that she's put very much effort into her career.  There's a cameo by Angela Lansbury (who was trying out PRETTYBELLE in Boston while FOLLIES was there for its tryout).  Lansbury asks DeCarlo after seeing a matinee if this was her first time on stage.  DeCarlo later explains it by saying that Angie must have been in a state of shock over her own show's premature closing.<br />FOLLIES went on to become a landmark in the American theatre, running nearly two years, despite losing its entire investment.  FOLLIES still sparks arguments today.  Was it brilliant?  Or a pretentious mess?  This book is a great addition to the FOLLIES legend.  Chapin obviously took great joy in simply being there and that joy shines through the pages of this book.  Whether you're a FOLLIES fan or not (and I'm not), this book is a must-read for theatre buffs.	2003-10-09
US	51032984	R3GNI8GHBEA3LD	0898795192	386046999	The Songwriters Idea Book: 40 Strategies to Excite Your Imagination, Help You Design Distinctive Songs, and Keep Your Creative Flow	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The cure for writer's block	Ever had writer's block?  This book is the cure!  Along with Davis' THE CRAFT OF LYRIC WRITING and SUCCESSFUL LYRIC WRITING, THE SONGWRITERS IDEA BOOK forms a brilliant trilogy that is essential for the person who wants to write lyrics.  I'm rather surprised by reading some of the negative comments below.  My guess is that those people merely leafed through the book without actually reading it.  This book is NOT an easy read.  It is not something that can be scanned.  It must be read and studied very carefully.  It is very important to understand part 2 of the book (pages 15 through 34) before moving ahead.  This is the section wherein Davis analyzes the different types of the creative mind.  In only a few short pages Davis introduces a lot of important concepts that need to be understood.  The reader must take her tests and figure out which type he is.  Then and only then is the book of value.  I had to read part two several times before I really understood it.  But once I had a firm grasp of those ideas, I found the book to be extremely valuable.  Davis basically says that when one is blocked, that he needs to come at it from the other side of the brain.  She then proceeds to give exercises that make it easy to access the unused part of the brain.  While ostensibly for the lyricist, I think the principles can be adapted for any kind of writing.  I think this is a great book and I am grateful to Sheila Davis for writing it.	2003-09-30
US	51032984	R2OQJ16ZF39SJF	0312287208	146652330	Skylark: The Life and Times of Johnny Mercer	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Informative, but unfocused	I bought this book on the basis of having read Philip Furia's excellent IRA GERSHWIN - THE ART OF THE LYRICIST.  In fact, I probably wouldn't have taken Johnny Mercer very seriously if Philip Furia hadn't deemed him worthy of biography.  I found this book very informative and insightful, but unfocused.  The book is at its best when Furia analyzes Mercer's lyrics.  Mr. Furia is a diligent student of the lyricist's craft and has the ability to express his criticism in a clear and logical way.  He nailed Mercer's lyrics as \\"untheatrical,\\" which I think is why I never really took to them.  It explains Mercer's lack of having a hit song come from one of his Broadway scores.  When Furia writes of Mercer's professional life, the book is interesting and insightful.  The story of his personal life is only intermittently interesting and the amateur psychoanalysis is laughable.  I found it odd that considering how effeminate Mercer was and how his life fits the homosexual case history in many ways (close to the mother, went into showbiz, married the first woman he had sex with) that there is no mention of his having been at least bi-sexual.  Instead the book seems to go out of its way to butch him up.  Where the book really jumps the track is when it touches upon the long-running, on-again-off-again love affair between Mercer and Judy Garland (who, Furia doesn't mention, often had affairs with homosexuals and, as Furia does mention, whose father and first husband were gay).  At this point Furia jumps into HOLLYWOOD BABYLON territory and goes into a rather detailed and sleazy depiction of Judy Garland's sex life.  It's enough to know that Mercer and Garland had an affair.  I don't want to speculate on what they did in bed.<br />The backstage stories of the Broadway, Hollywood and British work are so good that I wish there were more of them and that they were more detailed.  I also found the story of the creation of Capitol Records a fascinating one.  Very interesting too were the descriptions of Mercer's work habits and his working relationships with his collaborators.  SKYLARK is a Jeckyll-and-Hyde kind of book.  The professional part of the story is excellent.  The personal story is murky and questionable.  Furia obviously dislikes Mrs. Mercer and depicts her as a gold-digging, spendthrift manipulator.  There are too many unasked questions, for example, Why did Johnny Mercer put up with her if she was so awful?  He must have been getting something out of the deal, despite the fact that they had separate bedrooms and adopted their children.  Furia draws too many conclusions based on nebulous evidence.  I don't know what audience this book is aimed at.  Those interested in the craft of the song and the musical may be turned off by the sleazy elements.  Those interested in the sleaze might be bored by the song analyses.	2003-09-19
US	51032984	R2PZ3G1KIZ62PN	8187649127	420620463	Bhupen Khakhar (Katha trailblazer series)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Unique, provocative and delightful	The late Bhupen Khakhar was, in my opinion, one of the great artists of the final years of 20th Century.  In Timothy Hyman's overview of his life and career, it states that although Khakhar made no money from his play, MAUJILA MANILAL, he wrote and produced it because he felt he had to.  I really didn't expect Khakhar to be much of a writer.  (I've read Picasso's attempt at playwriting.)  I was really surprised and delighted by the play, despite parts of it being incomprehensible without a glossary [more on that later].  The play shows the same zany sensibility that animates Khakhar's artwork.  Khakhar also has a sense of dramatic construction that is almost unknown among novice playwrights.  (Surely he had written other plays before that I just don't know about.)  MAUJILA MANILAL is a comedy about a middle-aged bachelor who seduces two married women, although the protagonist is the husband of one of the women.  There is an off-the-wall sense of humor combined with a spiritual sensibility and a rich sense of irony.  I'd love to see the play produced, but the translation (by Bini Srinivasan) still needs a great deal of work.  Also included in the volume are four of Khakhar's short stories, which deal mostly with the lives of the Indian petit bourgeois.  I found the stories really interesting.  Maganbhai's Glue (translated by Naushil Mehta) is a really funny comedy with a rather provocative twist at the end.  Pages From a Diary (translated by Ganesh Devy) is interesting in its depiction of an unspoken homosexual courtship.  Both Vadki (translated by Naushil Mehta) and Phoren Soap (translated by Ganesh Devy and Naushil Mehta) deal with the effects of a mundane object upon a married couple and a community.  All of the stories have a Chekhovian sense of irony.  This book is well worth having, if for nothing else, the amusing black-and-white illustrations by Khakhar.  The only really first rate translation was Phoren Soap.  There is a lot of awkwardness in the other stories and the play.  A glossary of untranslatable terms would have been very helpful.  Otherwise, an American can only guess at the meaning of sentences like: \\"The achmani was sparkling clean and the vadki was full of sheera.\\"  I give Khakhar 5 stars; I give the translations 2 stars.  Nonetheless, this is a must-have for Khakhar fans.	2003-09-11
US	51032984	R194WEHRFCLDPS	0595004709	12537608	The Princess and the Goblin	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Utter trash, however...	I'd heard about this book for decades, so I was delighted to at last find a copy.  Obviously inspired by the success of Jacqueline Susann and Harold Robbins, this roman-a-clef is notorious for its depiction of the alleged lesbian affair between Mary Martin and Jean Arthur.  It very much follows the formula established by Robbins and Susann, with enough clues about the real-life personalities to let the reader know who they \\"really\\" are, but with enough differences to keep from getting sued.  It basically tells the story of how Maureen Covillion (Mary Martin), a shallow but ambitious and conniving young actress, \\"steals\\" the personality of sensitive acting genius Josie Adams (Jean Arthur).  It's a campy melodrama that would have made a wonderful film by Rainer Werner Fassbinder.  Some scenes are quite wonderful, but many are meandering and pointless.  (An example is a long conversation between a writer and his wife about their children's behavior that has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the book.)  There are, however, a lot of laughs along the way, mostly at Miss Covillion's expense.  There are also some shrewd observations of show folk and show business by someone who has obviously been there.  There are several minor characters who will be recognizable to musical comedy buffs, such as the woman composer whose father is also a famous Broadway composer.  (I doubt that the personality he ascribes to the character is accurate, however.)  Rosner could have used an editor badly, but at the same time the book's schizophrenia was one thing that made it interesting for me.  Make no mistake about it.  This is trash.  But I thoroughly enjoyed it.	2003-09-06
US	51032984	R38TJ0OZVYNSEO	0944142362	809913452	Bhupen Khakhar (Artist Monograph)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Informative and Beautiful	I bought this book after seeing one of Khakhar's paintings at the Tate in London.  The great thing about the book are the beautiful color plates of the artist's work.  Timothy Hyman's long biographical essay is very informative, but hardly a definitive biography of Mr. Khakhar.  But it does give some insight into the humor and the emotion of the vibrant and shockingly colorful paintings.  It also serves as a decent introduction not only to the artist's work, but also to the cultural and artistic life of modern India.  This would be a nice gift for any lover of modern art or anyone interested in India, for that matter.  Gay men would especially appreciate this book, I think, as Khakhar \\"came out\\" in middle age (after the death of his mother) and many of his works are blissfully homoerotic.  But regardless of one's sexual orientation, this book would be a beautiful addition to any library of art books.	2003-09-03
US	51032984	R2BO27SJLA19VX	1567921477	861840756	Easy to Remember: The Great American Songwriters and Their Songs	Books	3	13	14	N	Y	Charming	This book is an eccentric, highly personal appreciation of \\"The Great American Songwriters and Their Songs.\\"  It is an easy read, as it is composed of short chapters with titles such as \\"George and Ira Gershwin,\\" \\"Anatomy of the Popular Song,\\" \\"Sheet Music, \\"Writing for Fred Astaire,\\" and \\"Made in Hollywood: `As Time Goes By' and `Laura'.\\"  I found it extremely informative and charmingly written.  The lists at the back are fun and provocative.  Zinsser provides extensive (and entertaining) notes on his sources as well as a thorough index.  This is a very subjective book with a highly personal viewpoint, but I would nonetheless recommend it to anyone with an interest in American popular song.  I enjoyed this book a lot.	2003-09-03
US	51032984	R2TK9BICSHM4HA	0674008936	575100958	Stories of Freedom in Black New York	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Impressive research marred by P.C. agenda	I bought this book because I have an interest in the artistic life of early America.  A book about a black American actor in the 1830s sounded like my kind of book.  I must give author White credit for the outstanding research he has done.  The biographical data on the life of James Hewlett is very scanty.  It must be difficult to write a book on a subject when the actual evidence is virtually nonexistent.  Alas, White has filled in the gaps with a lot of assumptions and wishful thinking.  He takes the tack that Hewlett was a great actor denied his place in the pantheon of American artists because of Americans' innate racism.  Because white audiences laughed at Hewlett's mangling of Shakespeare, White labels them racists.  (But would not I get laughs if I recited Shakespeare with a Brooklyn or a West Texas accent?  Would not audiences laugh if I said in a dialect, \\"Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of NEW York\\"?  No doubt they would also laugh if I substituted the phrase \\"brass candlesticks\\" for the word \\"basilisks.\\")  Later in the book, when comparing Hewlett with the far more successful black actor Ira Aldredge, he admits that Hewlett was barely literate and lacked the training that Aldredge had received.  The impression I get from the actual evidence is that Hewlett's ambition exceeded his abilities.  But White finds racism lurking everywhere and attributes all of Hewlett's misfortunes to it.  Among the farfetched assertions is that one Jewish newspaperman, Mordecai Noah consciously created an offensive stereotype of blacks.  I personally do not see how one man could CREATE a stereotype.  White also characterizes New Yorkers' reaction to the uncivilized behavior of the newly freed slaves as racism, when it seems to me that it was only a natural reaction to bad manners, regardless of the color of the perpetrators.  White makes outrageous statements throughout the book, using as supporting evidence still more unsubstantiated opinion and unsupported speculation.  White apparently does not know the difference between active racism and an unconscious lack of political correctness.  The book is also poorly edited and liberally peppered with sentence fragments.  There ought to be a book on the artistic life of African Americans in the early years of the republic, but this book can only offer a frustrating glimpse into that world.	2003-08-13
US	51032984	RC1E9VYVLE09M	0679772693	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Zooming through Byzantium	A Short History of Byzantium is John Julius Norwich's abridgement of his 3 volume work.  He begins his book with an apology for skimming so quickly over the surface and vows that he has left out nothing important (adding that if you want more detail, the three-volume version awaits you).  I knew virtually nothing about this fascinating period of history.  I found the book extremely informative, as well as quite lively and entertaining, with a fabulous cast of characters.  My favorite was the wily Theodora, who rises from sex show performer to Empress of Byzantium.  (I also liked it when characters I knew from other contexts made an appearance, such as Charlemagne and Eleanor of Aquitaine.) This book also gave me a much better understanding of such things as the crusades, the complex relationship between the Catholic Church, the Byzantine Church and the Byzantine state; and the rivalry between Venice and Genoa.  Just as importantly the book has also made me curious about some other things.  I'd really like to know more about the Ottoman Empire after reading A Short History of Byzantium.	2003-08-09
US	51032984	R2YOB7BGXL5D6Y	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Ambitious, but too long	I had never read any of Salman Rusdie's work until this novel.  (I was told this was a good place to start with Rushdie.)  I admired very much the ambition of MIDNIGHT'S CHILDREN.  Rushdie is to be commended for trying to write a great book.  He almost did it.  The first half is really vivid and enthralling.  Rushdie's prose is truly winged.  However, somewhere about halfway through the novel (about the time the narrator leaves Pakistan), I lost interest and the rest of the book became a chore to finish.  There really wasn't much of a payoff either, considering all the time invested in reading such a thick book.  I think MIDNIGHT'S CHILDREN would have been a much stronger book had it been pruned by at least a third.  There were also too many loose ends for my taste.  I'm glad I read the book though, and I think I have a pretty good idea of Rushdie's strengths and weaknesses as a writer now.  It's not a bad book, but it's far from being a masterpiece.	2003-08-01
US	51032984	R2ENRPAJUC2UGB	080411269X	819963287	Catilina's Riddle	Books	3	7	10	N	Y	Gordianus goes gay!	I'm enjoying this series a lot.  They make great airplane books.  There were many aspects of CATALINA'S RIDDLE that I really enjoyed, like the details of Roman life and the rather titillating scene wherein our hero is seduced by another man.  The characters of Gordianus and his family became much deeper in this volume.  However, the parts that dealt with the Cataline conspiracy were dull, dull, dull in comparison to the parts dealing with Gordianus, his family, and his neighbors.  There was too much history and not enough mystery.  The Cataline background overwhelmed this installment of Saylor's Sub Rosa series.  I enjoyed this book's humor and irony, but it was not as consistently entertaining as the previous volumes.	2003-07-31
US	51032984	RSGK009OEN2FW	0805061770	323177781	From the Holy Mountain: A Journey among the Christians of the Middle East	Books	4	33	42	N	N	Intelligent and Insightful	In 587 A.D., a Byzantine monk named John Moschos set off from Mount Athos in Greece, traveling around the eastern Mediterranean to Egypt, collecting anecdotes, aphorisms and legends of the desert monks, or, as he called it, \\"the wisdom of the desert fathers.\\"  The result was a book entitled The Spiritual Meadow, which is still in existence.  Using Moschos' book as his guide, author William Dalrymple made the trip himself in 1994, to see what was left of the Christians of the Middle East.  Of course, what he was really visiting were the last fading vestiges of Byzantium itself.  This fascinating book is a combination of travelogue, history and muckraking journalism.  The muckraking journalism part I did not care for (because I don't like feeling helpless), but the historical aspects of the book appealed to me greatly.  I knew next to nothing about this region when I started reading this book.  It was saddening to read of the slow but inevitable death of the Christian faith in the Middle East.  Wars, persecutions, political power games and emigration have virtually assured its extinction, probably within the next 20 years.  Most horrifying, to me, was the case of the Palestinian Christians in Israel.  The book definitely gave me the impression that the state of Israel is not a benign force.<br />The real strength of the book is, in addition to his vivid prose, Dalrymple's sense of humor. I chuckled many times throughout the book.  Especially amusing to me was the Coptic monks' obsession with poultry breeding.  My favorite parts of the book were the historical background on the places he visited and the conclusions Dalrymple was able to draw using his prodigious knowledge of Christian art (he is an authority on Celtic illuminations).  Parts of the book I found really thrilling, such as Dalrymple's near-epiphany when he recognizes an ancient picture found in Egypt as being identical to a page of Celtic illumination and is then able to build a case whereby a shipwreckedCoptic monk was the source of all Celtic illuminations.  I also felt a chill when Dalrymple realized that the liturgical melody he was hearing was probably the oldest melody in existence.<br />I would not want to make this trip for myself, because unlike Dalrymple, I don't have a sense of adventure that is willing to deal with gun-toting religious zealots, paranoid citizens of repressive countries and insane local despots in third-world countries.  But I suppose someone has to do it, and we are fortunate that that someone was Dalrymple.  His literary and historical knowledge served him well on this trip.  This is an odd book that caused me to think about a lot of things in a different way, and for that reason I would recommend it.  It was an excellent follow-up to Julius Norwich's A Short History of Byzantium.	2003-07-31
US	51032984	R13K5T32SGH1B8	082567204X	528253882	On the Sunny Side of the Street : The Life and Lyrics of Dorothy Fields	Books	2	11	12	N	Y	Breezy and superficial	This book is extremely superficial and obviously the author didn't do very much research.  I also got the CD, An Evening with Dorothy Fields, that was recorded live in 1972 (highly recommended).  Winer has quoted verbatim a lot of what is said on the CD without putting quotation marks around it.  Winer's book tells virtually nothing of Fields' personal life apart from the occasional bombshell like \\"she was now married a second time since her first marriage had been from the very beginning a mistake acknowledged by both parties [that's a vague paraphrase]\\" or \\"now the mother of two children, Dorothy had to...\\" or later on, \\"her drinking, always a problem, had gotten worse.\\"  There is no elaboration on any of these points.  But the book does provide a broad overview of her career, even though a few of her films may have gone unmentioned.  I wanted to know more about the person who wrote those easy-to-sing and easy-to-remember lyrics.  Writers and publishers take note: There really ought to be a more in-depth biography of Dorothy Fields.  She is too important a figure of the 20th Century American cultural landscape to be ignored.  THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE STREET isn't much, but right now it's all we have.  Until the definitive biography comes along, it will have to do.	2003-07-10
US	51032984	R3ENS1AKDIQESA	0425183475	811740093	Dance with Demons: The Life of Jerome Robbins	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Exhausting	I basically enjoyed the book, but I wish it had been about a hundred pages shorter.  I would have preferred a book that really focused on the Broadway career.  I have very little interest in ballet and a lot of the book was about ballet.  It assumes the dancers mentioned are household words, but aside from Villella, Nureyev, Baryshnikov, Suzanne Farrell and a couple of others, I had no idea who these people were and what they said was not particularly interesting.  This is an ambitious book and I admire its ambition, but Robbins was a part of many worlds and in order to do all these worlds justice the whole is diluted.  It could have been several books - one dealing with his early life and Jewish heritage, another dealing with his sexual nature, another with his Broadway career, another with his career in dance, and yet another dealing with his early flirtation with and later repudiation of Communism.  This book tries to cover all the bases and ends up being exhausting.  As I said the ballet part didn't really interest me and it took up most of the last half of the book.  As a result I found the last hundred pages really tough going.  But I did learn a lot that interested me, like how Robbins wanted John Latouche and Arthur Laurents to write the lyrics and book for ON THE TOWN.  Bernstein wanted Comden and Green.  ...	2003-04-14
US	51032984	R24KVNCPL3LGM7	0139723986	231073934	Yoga for Men Only	Books	4	10	13	N	N	On the whole, excellent, but...	This is not traditional yoga as I have studied it, but it is nonetheless an excellent book of advice and exercise for men.  It was written in the late 60s and the writing is very much of its time.  The slant is vaguely be a real man through yoga.  If it had been written today the slant would probably be about longevity or sex.  But Dr. Young presents several case histories of men he has helped to a happier life.  One is Richard, whom Dr. Young describes as tired of being an insignificant nobody with a typical job, typical prospects, typical appearance, and of being less than extraordinary with women.  But Dr. Young says, I taught him a Yoga secret.  After practicing it only twice he felt so differently that he could hardly believe he was the same person.  The result was that Richard successfully wooed the woman of his dreams and married her five and a half months later.  Its hard not to smile at prose like that.  But the actual exercises are really excellent and I have not encountered them anywhere else.  I wish Dr. Young had gone into detail about the Yogi Bench.  He says it should be low and then another time he says it's half the height of a chair.  That seems high for some of the exercises.  I have other quibbles, too.  ...	2002-01-19
US	51032984	R3CK86975BCYEK	0674211898	180517743	The Discovery of the Greek Bronze Age	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Introduction to Greek Archaeological Sites	The Discovery of the Greek Bronze Age by Leslie Fitton is a very entertaining history of the archaeological attempts to prove that stories thought to be myths were in actuality history.  Starting with Heinrich Schliemann and going up to the present day, Dr. Fitton presents a fascinating overview of her subject, explaining the tools and methods of the archaeologist as she goes along.  She highlights the careers of Schliemann, Arthur Evans, and other English-Speaking archaeologists in Bronze Age studies.  Schliemann in recent years has been damned as a liar, hypocrite, thief, Philistine, charlatan and an SOB to boot, but Fitton's appraisal of Schliemann seems fair to me.  While abhorring his early methods at Troy, Fitton nonetheless respects the fact that he learned from his mistakes, as evidenced by his work at Mycenae later.  I found her presentation of such debates as to whether Crete or Mycenae was the dominant power of the Bronze Age very easy to follow and absolutely fascinating.  This book makes an excellent introduction to the whole field of Archaeology and I would especially recommend it to anyone who is planning a trip to Crete, Hissarlik or the Peloponnese.  I found it a very valuable reading experience.	2001-07-20
US	51032984	R32HJTNI6OUK5D	0802132219	606672071	Train to Pakistan	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerful and Moving	I thought this book was terrific.  I read it on a long airplane flight and could not stop turning the pages.  I don't read a lot of fiction, but I was really engrossed in this novel.  It found it very powerful and moving.  I knew next to nothing about India and was basically ignorant the Sikh religion and the events surrounding the 1947 partition of the country.  The book has a large cast of vividly drawn characters I really cared about and was heart-poundingly suspenseful.  I also learned a lot.  It's not in the least sentimental and is very much a \\"man's book.\\"  I recommend it very highly.	2001-07-20
US	51032984	R1VJNIT2UQRIKI	0786863250	432334443	Natural Blonde	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Not much about her Lesbianism	I was hoping that she would go into more detail about her lesbianism and all her famous lovers, but she was quite vague about her sexuality and didn't even mention most of her lovers that I have heard about.  I thought it was pretty shallow.  A disappointment.	2001-05-28
US	51032984	R1FSPDFSIL132	0521343860	183595999	Shakespeare on the German Stage: Volume 2, The Twentieth Century (Vol 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Shakespeare on the 20th Century German Stage	The Germans have a special affinity for Shakespeare to the point of having proclaimed him as one of their own.  I have even heard that there are some Germans who think their Shakespeare is better than our Shakespeare.  (Seriously, however, in the days leading to World War II some Germans did argue that a country that produced Shakespeare could not possibly be an enemy.)  The Germans (with some justification) also take credit for rescuing Shakespeare's work from the hack adaptations in the years following his death.  (One must remember that D'Avenant's adaptation of Macbeth, Nahum Tate's King Lear [with a happy ending] and Thomas Shadwell's The Tempest were the standard versions on the English stage for nearly a hundred years.)  The German love affair with Shakespeare is an enduring one.  There are hundreds of productions of Shakespeare in Germany every year.  It has been so for virtually this entire century.  In this fascinating book, William Hortmann shows how the political and social changes of the 20th Century were reflected in productions of Shakespeare on the German stage.  It is amply illustrated with 125 photographs of the productions discussed in the text.  There is also a special section by Maik Hamburger on theatre in Socialist East Germany that is one of the book's highlights.  My only real criticism is that the book doesn't quite go all the way to the end of the century.  It ends at 1995.  I would still strongly recommend it to anyone who's interested in Shakespeare, Twentieth Century Germany or the history of the theatre.  There is much food for thought here.	2000-11-12
US	51032984	R398PCG3OALK70	0375400559	306656129	Original Story By: A Memoir of Broadway and Hollywood	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Quite juicy, but also highly intelligent	I got a big kick out of this book.  Actually, I couldn't put it down.  I admire Laurents' intelligence and his honesty.  It was very refreshing to read a show business autobiography that did not seem to be written to attest to the author's heterosexuality.  It found it rather titillating,  especially tidbits like his being told at a gay and lesbian party by the  lover of [a female celebrity] that her first lover had been Gypsy Rose  Lee's mother.  (This fact was what made him interested in writing the  musical, Gypsy!)  The book is interestingly structured.  It jumps back and  forth and time, but it is all quite logical.  \\"A Memoir of Broadway and  Hollywood\\" it certainly is, with a huge cast of characters that includes  Chaplin, Gene Kelly, Alfred Hitchcock, Gore Vidal, and Shelley Winters (who  was a \\"beard\\" for Laurent's lover, Farley Granger), as well as the obvious  Leonard Bernstein, Stephen Sondheim and Jerome Robbins.  Parts of the book  are grotesque and I thought the last 20 pages could have been cut to about  two, but I really recommend this book.  I've thought about it a lot after  reading it, which is highly unusual for a book of this genre.  Oh.  And I  laughed a great deal, too.	2000-04-23
US	51032984	R2OPOD1URLWYA4	0806512717	354234505	How To Learn Any Language: Quickly, Easily, Inexpensively, Enjoyably and on Your Own	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A Very Valuable Book	In this entertaining and inspirational book, Barry Farber passes on what he has learned during a lifetime of learning languages.  The techniques he suggests are those that have evolved for him.  \\"Do as I now say, not as I  did then.\\"  What I especially got from the book was the ability to squeeze  in study time while doing everyday activities.  I found this book very  valuable.  I had already studied a little Italian when I got this book in  1992 at age 47.  I now speak Italian fairly well and have several  friendships that are exclusively in Italian.  But thanks to Farber's book,  I have also re-learned my college German after 30 years and know enough  Greek to get along in remote areas of Greece where nobody speaks English.   Not only did Farber's book inspire me, he gave me a lot of confidence to  persevere during those inevitable periods when things do not come easily or  quickly.  I have loaned my copy of this book to four or five people, all of  whom have been inspired by it.  One co-worker who is a part-time German  student told me that he had now gone to the head of his class as a result  of reading this book.  Farber writes well, tells some amusing anecdotes,  and peppers the text with some truly funny jokes to illustrate various  points.  I still laugh when I think about the one concerning a parrot.  How  to Learn Any Language is a delightful reading experience.	1999-06-18
