US	51036953	R3AA3T0GHPXJ4M	0060298774	527543947	The Lives of Christopher Chant (Chrestomanci Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An excellent backstory to a wonderful series	While chronologically this story comes first in the series of stories that comprise the Chrestomanci series, it is best to read after the wonderful \\"Charmed Life\\" because that story is the one that makes you wonder about the intriguing boy that is the hero of this one.  Knowing what will become of young Christopher does not in any way detract from the delight of this story -- in fact it heightens the level of anticipation.  This story and the preceding one (\\"Charmed Life\\") are easily the most complex and interesting stories in the series, and really the ones that the rest hang upon, because they really explain who and what the \\"Chrestomanci\\" is, and the role he plays in the fascinating universe Diana Wynne Jones has created. This is fantasy at its best, well written and very inventive, with characters that seem both familiar and bizarrely unique. It is, I suppose, not life-changing fiction but it keeps you there and makes you care and gives an opportunity to wonder. (It is no accident that Hayao Miyazaki based his latest film - Howl's Moving Castle -- on one of Jones' novels: they seem to have imaginations that operate on the same wavelength; like him, she is endlessly inventive and capable of a sublime blending of the supernatural and the ordinary, and loves finding magic in machines, and has an obsession with cats.)<br /><br />The basic premise of the \\"Chrestomanci multiverse\\" is that every time there is a major event that \\"changes\\" the world, the world actually divides into two alternate realities, one in which the event occurs and one in which it doesn't. Somehow, though, while the possibilities might seem infinite there are a limited number of possibilities that resemble the one Chrestomanci inhabits enough to warrant his general attention and concern. Within each major world variation, there are nine alternates (don't ask why just nine) that are apparently unified because they have the \\"same\\" people doing different things in them. It sometimes happens, though, that an individual within one of those realities has no parallel in the others, and so the \\"lives\\" that would belong to the other realities actually belong to him or her. Such a nine-lived individual has powerful magic and becomes a likely candidate for taking over the position of the British-hired Chrestomanci (think a mixture of Rowling's Minister of Magic for an indication of his range of responsibilities, with Head of Hogwarts for his overall competency).<br /><br />Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories. Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling. There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories. Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well. Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways. In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete. Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world. The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.that an individual within one of those realities has no parallel in the others, and so the \\"lives\\" that would belong to the other realities actually belong to him or her. Such a nine-lived individual has powerful magic and becomes a likely candidate for taking over the position of the British-hired Chrestomanci (think a mixture of Rowling's Minister of Magic for an indication of his range of responsibilities, with Head of Hogwarts for his overall competency).<br /><br />Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories. Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling. There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories. Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well. Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways. In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete. Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world. The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.	2005-10-05
US	51036953	RHUXJWR9CA5L3	0688155464	400028682	Charmed Life	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A wonderful beginning to an exciting series	This story and the next (\\"The Lives of Christopher Chant\\") are easily the most complex and interesting stories in the Chrestomanci series, and really the ones that the rest hang upon, because they really explain who and what the \\"Chrestomanci\\" is, and the role he plays in the fascinating universe Diana Wynne Jones has created. This is fantasy at its best, well written and very inventive, with characters that seem both familiar and bizarrely unique. It is, I suppose, not life-changing fiction but it keeps you there and makes you care and gives an opportunity to wonder. (It is no accident that Hayao Miyazaki based his latest film - Howl's Moving Castle -- on one of Jones' novels: they seem to have imaginations that operate on the same wavelength; like him, she is endlessly inventive and capable of a sublime blending of the supernatural and the ordinary, and loves finding magic in machines, and has an obsession with cats.)<br /><br />The basic premise of the \\"Chrestomanci multiverse\\" is that every time there is a major event that \\"changes\\" the world, the world actually divides into two alternate realities, one in which the event occurs and one in which it doesn't. Somehow, though, while the possibilities might seem infinite there are a limited number of possibilities that resemble the one Chrestomanci inhabits enough to warrant his general attention and concern. Within each major world variation, there are nine alternates (don't ask why just nine) that are apparently unified because they have the \\"same\\" people doing different things in them. It sometimes happens, though, that an individual within one of those realities has no parallel in the others, and so the \\"lives\\" that would belong to the other realities actually belong to him or her. Such a nine-lived individual has powerful magic and becomes a likely candidate for taking over the position of the British-hired Chrestomanci (think a mixture of Rowling's Minister of Magic for an indication of his range of responsibilities, with Head of Hogwarts for his overall competency).<br /><br />Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories. Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling. There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories. Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well. Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways. In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete. Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world. The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.bilities, with Head of Hogwarts for his overall competency).  <br /> <br />Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories. Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling. There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories. Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well. Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways. In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete. Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world. The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.	2005-10-05
US	51036953	R2UTIRJHD60HOI	0415290228	897695994	The Routledge Companion to Aesthetics (Routledge Philosophy Companions)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great introduction to the key concepts of aesthetics	This is an exceptionally strong volume in the Routledge Companions to philosophy series.  With a few exceptions, the essays in this volume are pitched at just the right level to introduce the reader to some of the major figures and central issues from the history of aesthetics.  It is both readable to the interested novice in philosophy and useful for the established scholar who wants to get his or her feet wet in a new area.  The book covers history, theory, issues, and the specifics of the individual arts.  Each chapter/essay is written by a prominent scholar, and is just the right length to identify several of the predominant issues covered in the scholarship.  The coverage is fairly thorough, and  the second edition is coming out soon which has even better coverage.  I was disappointed that there was not a chapter on Schopenhauer, but you know it is there in the second edition.	2005-10-05
US	51036953	R2SAY0B2V2O950	006447268X	537847885	The Chronicles of Chrestomanci, Volume 1: Charmed Life / The Lives of Christopher Chant	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Great reads by an incredibly inventive writer	The two novels in this volume are easily the most complex and interesting stories in the Chrestomanci series, and really the ones that the rest hang upon, because they really explain who and what the \\"Chrestomanci\\" is, and the role he plays in the fascinating universe Diana Wynne Jones has created.  This is fantasy at its best, well written and very inventive, with characters that seem both familiar and bizarrely unique.  It is, I suppose, not life-changing fiction but it keeps you there and makes you care and gives an opportunity to wonder.  (It is no accident that Hayao Miyazaki based his latest film - Howl's Moving Castle -- on one of Jones' novels: they seem to have imaginations that operate on the same wavelength; like him, she is endlessly inventive and capable of a sublime blending of the supernatural and the ordinary, and loves finding magic in machines, and has an obsession with cats.)<br /><br />The basic premise of the \\"Chrestomanci multiverse\\" is that every time there is a major event that \\"changes\\" the world, the world actually divides into two alternate realities, one in which the event occurs and one in which it doesn't.  Somehow, though, while the possibilities might seem infinite there are a limited number of possibilities that resemble the one Chrestomanci inhabits enough to warrant his general attention and concern.  Within each major world variation, there are nine alternates (don't ask why just nine) that are apparently unified because they have the \\"same\\" people doing different things in them.  It sometimes happens, though, that an individual within one of those realities has no parallel in the others, and so the \\"lives\\" that would belong to the other realities actually belong to him or her.  Such a nine-lived individual has powerful magic and becomes a likely candidate for taking over the position of the British-hired Chrestomanci (think a mixture of Rowling's Minister of Magic for an indication of his range of responsibilities, with Head of Hogwarts for his overall competency).<br /><br />Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories.  Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling.  There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories.  Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well.  Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways.  In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete.  Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world.  The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.for his overall competency).      Speaking of Rowling, some have compared Jones to Rowling and there are some interesting parallels -- so many that it is hard not to think that Rowling had at least read some of Diane Wynne Jones' stories.  Still, I don't agree with others who say Jones is a better writer than Rowling.  There is a way in which she is: for her elegance of prose, her compactness of style, for the overall simplicity and completeness of her stories.  Still, I think that Rowling is superior because what Jones doesn't try to do Rowling does very well.  Jones creates another world whose basic features are similar to ours, but is different in specifiable ways.  In that sense it is pure fantasy, a work of the imagination that she can tinker with and alter in various stories but is basically self-contained and organized in such a way that each story can be really complete.  Rowling fits her story of another world into THIS world and sets herself with what seems to me a much more difficult task of accommodating her fantasy to the unknown and improbable and strange and unfinished character of any story set in this real world.  The edges in any such story are unwieldy and it is a real tribute to Rowling (though in no way a criticism of Jones who has other aims) that she can wield them so well.	2005-10-03
US	51036953	R1MUC2FQV8NJYW	1578202566	615014750	Final Cut Express 2 Editing Workshop (DV Expert Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Great book gets you started, plus a  wonderful author to help you out of tough spots	Not only is this one of the best titles on the market for getting you into the nitty gritty of Final Cut Express, it is written by a man who is clearly devoted to teaching the product.  Just today I was on Apple's help forum trying to solve a problem that I couldn't find the answer for in his or any of the other books I have.  It turned out the solution was simple, but it was such a nice surprise that Tom Wolsky himself (author of this book) was the one to respond!!  Looking through Apple's and other web based forums on video editing I found that he devotes quite a bit of time to selflessly helping out people with questions that range from the simple (mine) to the very complex and particular solutions.  Combine this with the online expertise from Wolsky and many others who are incredibly helpful, and you are off to an excellent start editing!	2005-09-03
US	51036953	R38050QVM0KDRR	0816733066	224684153	Oregon'S Journey - Pbk (Trade)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetic and lovely -- one of my favorite children's books!	Duke, a clown, realizes that his friend Oregon the bear needs to be free and so they set off on a roadtrip across America to the forested mountain regions of Oregon.  Books as beautiful and evocative as this one are rare.  The story is told simply, with an economy of style and capturing a wide range of nuance with very few words.  It is a story of captivity and freedom, of prejudice and longing, a story of America and its diversity, both geographical and cultural. All of these messages come across in a story told to be delightful to children and poignant for their parents.<br /><br />The pictures complement the story perfectly.  One of my favorite pictures (it is hard to pick) depicts Duke sitting on a motel bed while Oregon is surrounded with cheeseburgers -- many of them merely sketched to suggest the passage of time (and the consumption of burgers).	2005-09-03
US	51036953	R2EIB7Q090ZLTT	1844570622	715432755	Understanding Realism (Understanding the Moving Image)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very solid introduction to one of the critical concepts of film studies	This is a much needed introductory film book, and one that is for the most part very well written and informative.  (While Armstrong occasionally plays fast and loose with what turn out on his account to be dialectical distinctions that could use more care, this is really a quibble because this is pitched roughly at what I would describe as the undergraduate or film studies novice level.  Even so, it raises issues that should be provocative and worth considering -- and not often considered with the overall level of clarity and insight as this text -- for even those who work and teach in the field.)<br /><br />One of the standard distinctions that introductory film texts make is between \\"realism\\" (often associated with the early paradigm of the Lumiere brothers' films) and \\"formalism\\" (often associated with the early fantastic film work of George Melies).  Often a third term \\"classicism\\" is introduced to describe the kind of film that began roughly with Birth of a Nation and that developed into what is now considered the \\"Hollywood style,\\" and is described as a kind of blending of the two in the interest of telling an entertaining story.  But these distinctions cover over a range of interesting (and ultimately philosophical) issues.  Just what does it mean for a film to be \\"realistic\\"?  Armstrong shows that \\"realism\\" is a style, or a set of styles that have evolved.  Because newsreel footage of WWII was often grainy and shaky, grainy and shaky images even in fictional films were considered by the proponents of Cinema Verite to be \\"realistic.\\"  But \\"reality itself\\" is not grainy and shaky, so what gives?  Now we tend to consider handheld video footage, even in a Sundance feature film, to get at the raw truth of reality -- because it looks like the \\"reality\\" we see on television, especially during times of disaster or wartime.<br /><br />Armstrong takes a close look at Hollywood style realism, various attempts by European and Middle Eastern directors to attain a new \\"realism,\\" and the recent phenomenon of \\"reality\\" television.  I should warn readers that many of his examples, especially when it comes to reality tv, come from the British market (this book is put out by the British Film Institute) -- but that is really not a significant drawback since the ideas themselves are not local.  If you are beginning to think about film, or are interested in the philosophy of film, I would recommend this as a good place to  start.the recent phenomenon of \\"reality\\" television.  I should warn readers that many of his examples, especially when it comes to reality tv, come from the British market (this book is put out by the British Film Institute) -- but that is really not a significant drawback since the ideas themselves are not local.  If you are beginning to think about film, or are interested in the philosophy of film, I would recommend this as a good place to  start.	2005-09-02
US	51036953	RW1PAM46R4BNB	0872201929	710786505	Meditations on First Philosophy (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The best introduction to modern philosophy in a reliable and cheap edition!	Descartes' meditations really is the place to start for thinking through the philosophical obsessions of the modern era -- the value of skepticism, the nature and extent of knowledge, the relation between mind and body, the role of theology in a rational account of the universe, subjectivity vs. objectivity, the primacy of the subject, freedom, etc.<br /><br />This is a book that can be read for these themes even by those who are encountering it for the first time without guidance.  At the same time this is a book that rewards reading and rereading, not only in the sense that you should read it more than once but that you should come back to it again and again after you have read the other classical works of philosophy that both preceeded it and that it paved the way for.  After a serious study of Kant, for example, you may find that you can come back to Descartes and see that much of the work of Kant's critical project was already prepared for in this little treatise.  That is not to say that Kant is not original, but that part of Kant's genius is in thinking through and making explicit the scope of the philosophical landscape that was first mapped out in the Meditations.	2005-09-01
US	51036953	RT11TBIYOKZ2Z	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An exceptional novel, that works both at a literal and allegorical level	Whether you are interested in a compelling story or an existential fable, the Plague is one of the most important fictional works of the century.  More profound than the Stranger, because it presents the dilemma of the protagonist in a very different way.  In the Stranger, the dilemma is that you've got to make choices, and whether you choose or don't you've made a choice, and the stranger alternates between evasion and arbitrariness until he discovers, almost too late (when his choices are confined to the limits of a prison cell) that choice matters.  In the Plague, the issue is that there is no final exit: all you can say for sure is that here you are, quarantined on the earth (as the characters are quarantined in their village).  Nothing you do may ultimately matter, and no one is going to come from outside to solve your problems.  In spite of this, the hero finds reasons to go on living, to improve the lives of a few in small ways.  It's worth comparing this novel to Saramago's \\"Blindness\\" -- the latter is perhaps more inventive in its style, but I find the Plague a more ultimately satisfying novel.  There is nothing extraneous here.	2005-08-31
US	51036953	RFO0WXSMW0M0P	0872201880	68074956	On Free Choice of the Will (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	55	56	N	N	excellent text for considering the impact of Christianity on Platonism and vice-versa	If you were looking for a significant and representative but introductory level medieval Christian philosophy text, you would be hard pressed to find one better than this.  When I teach intro to philosophy, I often choose representative texts from the ancient, medieval, early Modern, and roughly contemporary periods.  I start with Plato, either the Apology or the Meno or both.  Then we read this book.  Then Descartes' Meditations.  Finally, we read something from Nietzsche, de Beauvoir, or from an early American philosopher (e.g. Thoreau).<br /><br />This book is an excellent part of the sequence because it introduces free will, and introduces it in a way that is very relevant to Descartes' discussion of will in connection with error.  Plato (and the ancients generally) didn't really have a notion of the will: our choices are dictated by our level of understanding.  Augustine understood that the Christian notion of sin entails something more radical than mere ignorance -- I must, he thought, be in some real way capable of unmotivated choice if I am to be blamed for my actions.<br /><br />There are other great bits in this dialogue -- one that it IS a dialogue and so forms a nice segway from Plato's dialogues.  Another is its articulation of a proof of existence that prefigures Descartes' cogito and a proof of God that is remarkably similar (though very different in intent) to Descartes' first proof in the meditations.	2005-08-31
US	51036953	R3GL0ISUF0Q9AJ	1879505274	856535014	Making Movies Work: Thinking Like a Filmmaker	Books	5	18	19	N	N	an easy read with loads of insight into the nature of Hollywood Cinema	If you are looking for theory or for technical analysis of film, this is not the place.  If your interest, instead, is insight into the thinking that goes into making (mostly mainstream) films this is an excellent starting point.  Boorstin doesn't write like a movie critic or a professor of film; he writes like a very knowledgable and reflective craftsman who has insider experience on filmmaking and has been able to capture that experience into a series of analytic perspectives on the nature of \\"movies that work.\\"<br /><br />He breaks his analysis of the \\"working of movies\\" down into three perspectives that amount to the various levels at which the film needs to operate on or captivate its audience.  A movie that \\"works\\" has to work on all three levels, though it may emphasize one over the others.  First, it should appeal to the \\"voyeur\\" in the audience.  We watch movies because we want to see, and a movie works at a voyeuristic level when it shows us something that we can both believe and be interested in.  That sounds straightforward enough, but the voyeuristic perspective allows him to go into the \\"why\\" behind a wide range of cinematic techniques, and to introduce quite a bit of the vocabulary you'd find in another introduction to film but might not see why it was so important.  Secondly, the film has to work at a \\"vicarious\\" level: we have to care about the characters in the film, and what they do has to be emotionally true.  Under this heading Boorstin is able to discuss a range of topics, from Kuleshov's psychology experiments with film montage to what makes a film soundtrack work.  The third level is the \\"visceral\\": films can work, not only because they are intriguing or make us feel something for the characters, but also because they make us feel something period.  The rise of horror cinema is directly connected to this longing for a visceral experience: we don't just want to care about someone who is potentially being harmed but we want to feel their fear along with them.  The book goes on to discuss combinations between these, the differences between narratives and films of other forms, and the difference between mainstream Hollywood cinema and avant garde or foreign cinema.<br /><br />My only quibble with the book is that he doesn't address a fourth level at which films work -- maybe because it's hard to come up with a \\"V\\" word for what might be called the \\"reflective dimension\\" of film, and I believe that a discussion of this dimension would complement his other discussions and allow him to introduce in an unpretentious and insider fashion themes that are the subject of what film theorists call \\"ideology.\\"  Every film, at some level, has a theme -- has to have something it is \\"about\\" and this is a level that is not only of interest to film theorists but also to filmmakers.  Sidney Lumet's wonderful \\"Making Movies\\" discusses this at length.  For a film to work it has to have a theme and it has to somehow make sense of that theme.  In some films, and not only foreign or avant-garde films, this \\"thematic\\" or \\"reflective\\" dimension is the dominant one.  Take the success of the \\"Matrix\\" for example -- what makes it stunning is not only its superb visuals (voyeuristic level) or its strong narrative (such that we vicariously connect with Neo) or its tense mood (such that we have a visceral experience), but also that it forces us to think, raising interesting questions and posing tentative answers to those questions.<br /><br />In the end, though, this is merely a quibble with what is still a very worthwhile book that I am glad I encountered.  While the style is personal and the ideas are to some degree idiosyncratic to the author, it is a rare book that offers so much information and insight and is such an enjoyable read.  (I would compare this book to other remarkable and insightful works by working filmmakers such as Lumet's Making Movies and Walter Murch's In the Blink of the Eye -- and if I had to choose which one torecommend of these three I would say that Boorstin's book is more comprehensive and can likely teach more about the nature of film and filmmaking than the others.)recommend of these three I would say that Boorstin's book is more comprehensive and can likely teach more about the nature of film and filmmaking than the others.)	2005-08-30
US	51036953	RV1BEF34L5XV6	0679781374	104788172	Radio Free Albemuth	Books	5	4	4	N	N	wild, paranoid, large-scale, incredibly cool	Phillip K. Dick is at his best when he is working with BIG IDEAS, and it doesn't get any bigger than this.  This book is connected in interesting ways with his insanely metaphysical Valis trilogy -- but what I think is most exciting about this one is the way he inserts himself into the universe depicted in the previous trilogy, as if to suggest that the genesis of the ideas from those books had its basis in his own experience.  This tie to the \\"real\\" world makes this the ultimate Phillip K. Dick novel (though probably not the first one to read, since the conceit works best if you are already familiar with some of his ideas and works) -- since it \\"intensifies\\" or brings to completion the level of metaphysical speculation, as if to say: \\"you know all those books I wrote about fantasy worlds in which it was impossible to tell the difference between fantasy and reality?... that wasn't just fiction, some of it really happened to me.\\"  If you've only encountered Dick through the various movie adaptations (some successful some not), you should read Scanner, Ubik, and at least the Valis trilogy first, but then you won't be disappointed by this, his final work (even though it wasn't completed to his satisfaction when he died there's more good stuff in there than in several stacks of standard pulp sci fi.)	2005-08-30
US	51036953	R1QQKSBNOLQ64M	0375828257	114244287	The People of Sparks (The City of Ember)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An excellent follow up to the remarkable "City of Ember"	I was a bit skeptical when my children, with whom I had read the \\"City of Ember,\\" came to me asking for the sequel.  It seemed to me that book was in a way complete, and had dealt with the issues it had to deal with in a very thoughtful and intelligent and readable way.  I didn't think there was much mileage to be gotten from putting the same people in a new situation to see how they fared there.  I was wrong; as a sequel this book performs admirably, taking the characters from the first into a new set of interesting struggles and raising a number of very important but new issues along the way.  In the first book, we find our heroes in an underground city, which we discover was prepared for them to protect them from a catastrophe.  In this book we discover more about the nature of that catastrophe - both war and environmental disaster.  More importantly, the situations in this book prepare the reader to ask why such disasters occur in the first place and how they can be avoided.  Reading this book provided an excellent opportunity to speak with my children about the motivations of war and conflict -- issues that they can't help but face in today's world.  The book also prepares the reader, without sentimentality or preaching, to consider what it would take to resolve conflicts without killing each other and ourselves.	2005-08-29
US	51036953	RJXH89OCETOE9	0375822739	176879219	The City of Ember: The First Book of Ember	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An engaging and thoughtful tale with contemporary relevance	I read this to my children, and they didn't want to let me put it down.  We had just read the latest Harry Potter, and while they were very excited by Harry's adventures I can say they appeared to be more captivated by the search of Lina and Doon to solve the mystery of what is going wrong with their city and how they can fix it.  In terms of level of interest and excitement this book is on par with the Gregor the Overlander series -- but is less fantasy driven and more driven by real world difficulties that are faced by a couple of resourceful youths in a city where the adults are trying to close their eyes to the problems.  Of course the story of a city running out of resources and on the brink of going dark should resonate with children who are aware of our current environmental crisis, or should provide an opportunity to discuss it with them.  Especially, this story highlights the fact that even in the face of such a crisis many want to ignore the problems, imagine someone else will solve them, or simply do what they can to take care of themselves at the expense of others.  A very fine book.	2005-08-29
US	51036953	R15MK8Q82XSG1U	0060528737	962868136	Abhorsen (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent conclusion to a fine trilogy	Unlike Sabriel, which stands alone as a complete novel, Lirael ends on a cliffhanger, with its completion in Abhorsen. This is not a complaint, since the same can be said of the Lord of the Rings trilogy as a whole. But it is to say that while you might read the last two novels without reading the first, you can't read this one without reading Lirael.<br /><br />More significantly, though, than the continuity of plot in the last two novels, is that the last two novels complete the cosmological implications of the first novel -- elevating this world and its story to something more than merely a cool or interesting place (more than a fantasy), and into the status of significant myth. What I mean by that, is that the story begins to take on larger dimensions than merely a story of a few interesting characters in an interesting world. It becomes a story of the contrast between order and chaos (a dimension in every founding myth), and of the tension between different kinds of order (a tyranny and a democracy are both ordered states). It also becomes (especially in Abhorsen) a profound meditation on the metaphysical dimensions of freedom: something to be seen, for example, in the contrast between the \\"Disreputable Dog\\" and the \\"cat\\" Mogget (whereas the cat is a \\"free magic\\" creature who is bound against his will by the charter; the dog is apparently a free magic creature who has taken upon herself the charter, submitting herself to its ordering principles). While there is a sense in which this is a classic story of the struggle of good against evil, these underlying tensions make it much more interesting. The story thus raises philosophical questions like: is genuine freedom to be unbound? is mastery the only form of power? is order better than chaos? More than just a great read and a well told story, this trilogy aims to provide subtle and interesting answers to such questions.	2005-08-19
US	51036953	ROO9QBTCVGMSI	0060005424	895619710	LIRAEL: Daughter of the Clayr (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great read, good thoughts	Unlike Sabriel, which stands alone as a complete novel, Lirael ends on a cliffhanger, with its completion in Abhorsen. This is not a complaint, since the same can be said of the Lord of the Rings trilogy as a whole. More significantly, though, than the continuity of plot in the last two novels, is that the last two novels complete the cosmological implications of the first novel -- elevating this world and its story to something more than merely a cool or interesting place (more than a fantasy), and into the status of significant myth. What I mean by that, is that the story begins to take on larger dimensions than merely a story of a few interesting characters in an interesting world. It becomes a story of the contrast between order and chaos (a dimension in every founding myth), and of the tension between different kinds of order (a tyranny and a democracy are both ordered states). It also becomes (especially in Abhorsen) a profound meditation on the metaphysical dimensions of freedom: something to be seen, for example, in the contrast between the \\"Disreputable Dog\\" and the \\"cat\\" Mogget (whereas the cat is a \\"free magic\\" creature who is bound against his will by the charter; the dog is apparently a free magic creature who has taken upon herself the charter, submitting herself to its ordering principles). While there is a sense in which this is a classic story of the struggle of good against evil, these underlying tensions make it much more interesting. The story thus raises philosophical questions like: is genuine freedom to be unbound? is mastery the only form of power? is order better than chaos? More than just a great read and a well told story, this trilogy aims to provide subtle and interesting answers to such questions.	2005-08-19
US	51036953	R1I2O00L17TGN9	0064472256	827813701	The Adventures of Blue Avenger	Books	5	4	4	N	N	have fun with philosophy, and a very cool superhero	An excellent book about a remarkable young hero, who is grappling with the old philosophical problem of free will.  If every event has a cause, then how can we be free? And if we are not free, then how can we be held morally responsible?  This book, more successful, I think, than the second in the series (though that was still far superior to most teen fiction out there), illustrates this problem extremely well at the same time as it introduces some very intriguing and likeable characters who face real world problems and solve them in real world ways, while managing at some level to feel like superheroes.  While it touches on some themes (death and sex, both touched upon in a very sensitive and non-explicit fashion) that may be too mature for very young children, I think the book would be appropriate and enjoyable for anyone over 12 years old (and I mean anyone without age limit, since I bought this for my daughter and picked it up one night and couldn't put it down).	2005-08-17
US	51036953	REQP6G2R1727Z	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fine fantasy, with shades of Pullman and Le Guin, though not quite up to their level	This is a good, fantastic read, with well-drawn and intriguing characters and a strong pace in an exciting world where the dead come to life at the hands of necromancers. The style and substance and imaginative energy of the novel can be compared favorably with that of other stories like the Earthsea trilogy of Leguin or the Dark Materials trilogy of Pullman -- even if, so far in the first novel at least, it lacks what you might call the theological and metaphysical dimensions of either of these. So far, in spite of an inventive system of magic (both that tied to an ancient charter that brings order to the realm and a deeper and darker \\"free magic\\" that binds life and death), the story is really tied at a metaphysical level to a fairly conventional sense of good and evil, of heroes and villians, in a world that is interesting but not entirely original. The world it is set in, while fairly complex, is also more narrowly self-contained than that of these other novels. I expect that things will deepen as the trilogy progresses; so far, this is an excellent and gripping read, that doesn't yet have the feel of an abiding classic.	2005-08-14
US	51036953	R2C6YNWL3SSVYG	0312421818	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a compelling novel about the redemptive power of creation	How do you pull yourself together after a crisis?  How can you begin to laugh, carry on casual conversations, go to work, when what sustained your life has been lost?  The suggestion in this finely wrought novel is that in the absence or the fracture of an overarching significance, meaning can be found in the taking up of finite and all-consuming projects. A literature professor who has lost his family takes on the project of writing about an obscure and allegedly deceased silent film actor.  Eventually, he discovers that the man is alive but not well in New Mexico, where he has been making films that he plans to have destroyed upon his death.<br /><br />Redemption, this novel suggests, can be found by engaging in meaningful enterprises for which one holds no further expectation or hope than the enterprise itself.  (This is far too simple and would require loads of qualification, but I can't qualify it further without going into details from the text that I wouldn't want to deprive anyone of the enjoyment of discovering for him or herself.  This is a solid piece of work that deserves to be read both for its overall themes but also for its wonderful descriptions of nonexistent films that I wish I could see and feel a bit like I have after reading this novel.)	2005-08-14
US	51036953	R2BXKFWAHWZ1IG	155652577X	158372365	Flicker: A Novel (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	a bit slow at points, but a must for sci fi and movie buffs	At the heart of this novel is the quest for the holy grail of cinema: the capacity to work on the audience in a purely cinematic way, that has nothing to do with literature or photography (i.e. nothing to do with plot or mise en scene).  How is this allegedly possible?  First and foremost by making use of the capacity to manipulate sequences of images through editing.  But at its most basic level it is just the condition of film: that movement is an illusion created by stringing images together, each of which is screened for a split second (1/24th).  To render this illusion possible, there must be an imperceptible gap between each image: a flicker.  What if there was a way of employing the flicker to \\"say\\" something?  To speak to the audience without words or story or even images (which of course have something in common with photography)?<br /><br />But this \\"holy grail\\" of cinema is only the pretense for what is in part a great story about what it was like to live as a movie buff before video, when it was an exclusive almost underground enterprise to watch films that weren't mainstream or big budget.  It conveys some of the enthusiasm for film during the sixties in America, when European films were just beginning to be seen on college campuses and arthouses, when the American underground and avant-garde cinema had its heyday.  It is also a mystery novel and in the end a grand conspiracy novel almost worthy of Phillip K. Dick.<br /><br />The story drags a bit here and there -- not when they are talking cinema, but because the grand conspiracy takes too much exposition to set up and then finishes in a less than satisfying and perhaps too predictable way.  Still, these are not really complaints.  It is not a perfect novel, but I couldn't put it down for the three or four days worth of free time and late nights that it took to read it.	2005-08-14
US	51036953	R1QD297NOJKGT4	0375701966	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	4	6	8	N	N	a worthwhile book that grows on you	Others have summarized the book and alternately raved or panned it.  I don't really want to do any of these things, but I do want to put down a few of my thoughts on it. (Writing quick reviews is as good a way as any to mark for myself the experience of reading this book -- and since reading this book and attempting to make something of the experience, making it an event of consequence and not just another item in the passing of time, is for me part of \\"the search\\" I think these remarks are not wholly beside the point in a review of this book.)<br /><br />First, this is a book to read more than once.  It is deceptive: it is not a conventional novel, and for a time the style seems to work against the substance.  I was tempted to put it down until I had worked my way into the second part and was hooked. At a certain point I couldn't shake from myself a comparison between this novel and \\"On the Road\\" but substitute movies for jazz.  The comparison is not very good, I know, but there is a way in which Kerouac's journey as a writer, spiked with alcohol and jazz, resembles Binx's quest -- they are both working at getting the \\"this is it.\\" The differences are also telling: whereas jazz infects the rhthm of the language in Kerouac, movies (and actually concrete details generally: others have mentioned that the riotous atmosphere of Mardi Gras barely makes a mark here) only play an oblique role in Percy's novel.  I'm not sure, yet, whether that is a flaw in Percy's work or whether there is something telling and true about it.  There is a sense in which Percy is working on a bigger scale -- attempting to identify symptoms of the human condition that are only indirectly hit upon in On the Road.<br /><br />It is, as others have noted, an \\"existentialist\\" novel to be compared with the works of Camus and Dostoevsky and other European writers -- but with an ease and simplicity that is distinctively American.  The explicit and implicit references to Kierkegaard make clear some of the ideas that Percy is working with: the question whether the ordinary and everyday can be transformed, not by transcendence through some higher ideal (in which the individual would be lost or subsumed) but through ... well, if I were to try and state it that would be just another ideal ... which is why Percy wrote a novel and not a philosophical treatise (and when he got around to writing his \\"philosophical treatise\\" Lost in the Cosmos, it consists of a series of questions and provisional hypotheses).  Binx, the \\"hero\\" here, calls the effort at transformation \\"the search\\" but he is very aware that he is not himself a very dedicated searcher -- you can avoid the search either by being dead (caught up in habits, ways of saying and doing, falling into what Heidegger called \\"das man\\" - the \\"they\\"), or by plunging into and the moment, avoiding the boring everyday in favor of the interesting (this is Kierkegaard's \\"aesthetic sensibility, the pursuit of which, in the form of girls and movies and making money, occupies much of Binx's time).  The key to his true occupation, the preoccupation with \\"the search\\" is that it is not about something else other than doing these things.  As even Kierkegaard emphasizes in \\"Fear and Trembling\\" the \\"Knight of Faith\\" can very well appear outwardly a philistine tax collector.  I'm not sure if the search is about faith, though there is a kind of fear and anxiety about getting lost here.<br /><br />What I want to emphasize is that there are points of reference, that can hint towards the scope of what Percy is trying to do in this book.  I'm not yet sure whether he's pulled it off, or whether the fairly conventional style of the writing fits the unconventional nature of the story, but I'm convinced this is a book to take seriously.  It's is definitely worth a read, and I plan to keep it on my shelf to read again.e of the ideas that Percy is working with: the question whether the ordinary and everyday can be transformed, not by transcendence through some higher ideal (in which the individual would be lost or subsumed) but through ... well, if I were to try and state it that would be just another ideal ... which is why Percy wrote a novel and not a philosophical treatise (and when he got around to writing his \\"philosophical treatise\\" Lost in the Cosmos, it consists of a series of questions and provisional hypotheses).  Binx, the \\"hero\\" here, calls the effort at transformation \\"the search\\" but he is very aware that he is not himself a very dedicated searcher -- you can avoid the search either by being dead (caught up in habits, ways of saying and doing, falling into what Heidegger called \\"das man\\" - the \\"they\\"), or by plunging into and the moment, avoiding the boring everyday in favor of the interesting (this is Kierkegaard's \\"aesthetic sensibility, the pursuit of which, in the form of girls and movies and making money, occupies much of Binx's time).  The key to his true occupation, the preoccupation with \\"the search\\" is that it is not about something else other than doing these things.  As even Kierkegaard emphasizes in \\"Fear and Trembling\\" the \\"Knight of Faith\\" can very well appear outwardly a philistine tax collector.  I'm not sure if the search is about faith, though there is a kind of fear and anxiety about getting lost here.   <br /> <br />What I want to emphasize is that there are points of reference, that can hint towards the scope of what Percy is trying to do in this book.  I'm not yet sure whether he's pulled it off, or whether the fairly conventional style of the writing fits the unconventional nature of the story, but I'm convinced this is a book to take seriously.  It's is definitely worth a read, and I plan to keep it on my shelf to read again.	2005-08-13
US	51036953	R1L7PPRMVZ4VDP	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Responding to evil: Cormac McCarthy meets J.K. Rolling (not quite, but ...)	Like all of the McCarthy works I've read, this is a suberbly written, raw and stunningly violent novel.  It is also, unlike especially his masterpiece Blood Meridian, a quick and easy (which does not mean comfortable or comforting) read: a thriller with a rigorous plot and pace.<br /><br />I won't repeat details that have already been included in other reviews, but did think one point worth mentioning that I haven't seen in the other reviews.  One feature of this novel that stands out are the continual references to the novelty of the criminals that the \\"old men\\" of the novel (especially Sheriff Bell) are facing.  Their cold, clinical brutality that operates with no concern for the law -- here in the context of drug trafficking -- is something that Bell seems to think is entirely new.  What is noteworthy, though, is that in the context of McCarthy's work this is not new at all (I am thinking especially of Blood Meridian).  I think that is an indication that we shouldn't simply or easily identify McCarthy's point of view as author with the narrative voice of Sherrif Bell (who is clearly at the center of this story, though for a time displaced by Llewelyn).  While for Bell this is all new, I think that McCarthy's work is saying that brutality (at the heart of war and violence, as these reveal themselves to be not reducible to utility, but as a kind of end in themselves for at least some of their participants) has always been with us and is apparently inescapable.  There are those who kill without remorse -- and the morbid fascination that we as a culture have for such beings indicates that what drives them is not entirely alien to any of us.  What he is exploring in his various works, I think, are the various ways in which one might confront and respond to this fact.<br /><br />This novel presents one such response: Sheriff Bell does see into the abyss here, and while others may shrug off his own sense of guilt, he knows he cannot simply dismiss the horror of the abyss because he sees affinities with evil in his own instinctive act of self-preservation during wartime.  Still, in his sometimes rambling italicized discussions, we see one genuine alternative to admitting the dominance of a horror that really can never be wholly overcome.  It is to give oneself over to the fragile and risky bonds of trust and love and the always impermanent efforts of people (not laws) to institute order and protect the innocent.<br /><br />Along those lines, it strikes me that in spite of vast differences in style and approach (most notably Rowling's tendency to say far more than is necessary contrasts with McCarthy's leanness of prose), this novel converges very closely in its subject matter and conclusions with the book I just finished reading with my kids: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.  What makes Harry (compare Sheriff Bell) different from Voldemort (who, as revealed in the Half Blood Prince, is not so far from the chilling criminal Chigurh at the center of this novel) is not any greater skill he possesses (he doesn't and is in fact not entirely disciplined) but the fact he is willing to rely on others who he knows are better than him in some things, cares more about friendship than personal gain, and is (for the most part, though imperfectly) driven to protect others rather than out of any desire to be perceived heroic.sees affinities with evil in his own instinctive act of self-preservation during wartime.  Still, in his sometimes rambling italicized discussions, we see one genuine alternative to admitting the dominance of a horror that really can never be wholly overcome.  It is to give oneself over to the fragile and risky bonds of trust and love and the always impermanent efforts of people (not laws) to institute order and protect the innocent.      Along those lines, it strikes me that in spite of vast differences in style and approach (most notably Rowling's tendency to say far more than is necessary contrasts with McCarthy's leanness of prose), this novel converges very closely in its subject matter and conclusions with the book I just finished reading with my kids: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.  What makes Harry (compare Sheriff Bell) different from Voldemort (who, as revealed in the Half Blood Prince, is not so far from the chilling criminal Chigurh at the center of this novel) is not any greater skill he possesses (he doesn't and is in fact not entirely disciplined) but the fact he is willing to rely on others who he knows are better than him in some things, cares more about friendship than personal gain, and is (for the most part, though imperfectly) driven to protect others rather than out of any desire to be perceived heroic.	2005-08-13
US	51036953	R30NQMDM4H772W	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	5	5	7	N	N	a great read, provocative ideas	I read this book for the ideas, because I love Desert Solitaire -- but found I couldn't put it down for the excitement of the narrative.  I'm not going into that now, though, since others have reviewed the details adequately.  I just want to make a couple of comments about this bookthat I hope will prevent misconceptions of its intent.<br /><br />This is not a manifesto for ecoterrorism (note that is already a loaded word, for which Abbey would prefer the term sabotage).  This is clear from two key points: (1) Abbey has his characters discuss the fact that what they do could not and should not ever become a \\"movement.\\"  It is the outgrowth of a chance encounter between like minded individuals, who found themselves passionate about the West and concerned by what they saw happening to it (note: it is not passion for \\"nature\\" or \\"the environment\\" that drives them, but passion for specific places in the West that they happen to care about). If others happened to feel the same way, they say, all power to them but there would be no point in \\"organizing,\\" since what they are fighting against really is organization or structure, all roughly in the name of, well, in the name of nothing in particular or nothing more than whatever passions drive each of them as individuals.  A place to drink beer and get drunk without being harassed by cops?  A place to run a business taking tourists down the river?  A place to get away from business? (2) the \\"ideals\\" of the Monkey Wrench Gang are not established idealistically in this novel; there is no consistent philosophy that is outlined here or espoused by any of the members; the members are sketched in less than idealistic terms because the point is to show that very ordinary people from very different backgrounds can find common causes and achieve something if they don't wait for common grounds.  Is this an admirable thing?  I don't think Abbey wants to claim so much, but rather presents this story as an opinionated take on life and what matters that we may or may not choose to take seriously.  To read the novel is to participate in the campfire with Hayduke and Smith and Doc Sarvis, to listen to their take on life and to decide whether you think they are insane or whether what they say and do resonates with your experience and values.d what matters that we may or may not choose to take seriously.  To read the novel is to participate in the campfire with Hayduke and Smith and Doc Sarvis, to listen to their take on life and to decide whether you think they are insane or whether what they say and do resonates with your experience and values.	2005-08-11
US	51036953	R8WY0YPYQTSBU	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	strong story, excellent analogy	While for a while I felt myself put off by Saramago's continual digressions, or side remarks, after a while they became charming and occasionally brilliant and I found myself caught up in the story as if I were trusting a quirky but fascinating storyteller.  It really does feel like that -- what it takes to read this is to trust that the narrator (who rambles on a bit or makes comments on the side, to relate awkwardly translated but still apt sayings to the events or to anticipate rightly or wrongly how the reader/listener might think about what he is telling) knows what he is doing.  After a certain point it is no longer a matter of trust -- the story itself becomes fascinating and frightening.  What I liked about it, a lot, was that while there is clearly a kind of allegory at work the story defies any simple symbolic identifications.  Yes, blindness is our moral blindness, or our inability to see the sufferings of others, or the fact we (even if we won't admit it) see others largely in terms of their utility or lack thereof to ourselves.  But of course it is as a result of the blindness that some come to see their necessary interdependence, but that others embrace depravity.  A very worthwhile novel that anyone who reads will see to be have loads of contemporary relevance.	2005-08-10
US	51036953	RS71Z37FQPWNM	0446676101	341459311	Lilith's Brood	Books	4	12	12	N	N	So, you want to think like an alien?	... you can't, even if you could imagine what you might be like if you looked a lot different.  That is what, as far as I can tell, a lot of science fiction does with aliens.  They add a lot of bells and whistles and strange customs and body parts, but in the end make aliens into a peculiar tribe that can be understood more or less like we understand human beings.  What is brilliant about this trilogy is that Butler understands this, and doesn't really attempt to give a third person omniscient account of the alien race that comes to mingle with humans.  Rather, she tells us, in the first book, how one human woman encountered them and what she was able to learn about them over time.  We begin to see the aliens as they see themselves only much more gradually, first from the perspective of a boy (in the second book) who is partly human and yet beginning to understand both aspects of himself through his encounters with both the alien and the human species.  In this story, what he comes to understand of his alien nature is equally fascinating with how he comes to understand humanity from the perspective of an outsider.  Finally, in the third book, we get an even more alien perspective, that of a third sex alien (an Ooloi) -- but we have been prepared for its strangeness by what came before, and have a point of comparison in the boy from the second book.<br /><br />Butler has a pared down, direct, descriptive style that is far superior to most of what gets published now and that merits the same kind of respect that is afforded our greatest writers (and I'm not talking about Stephen King or Grisham) in any genre of fiction. Her subject matter, too, is as compelling as you can find anywhere -- especially since here as elsewhere she is experimenting with the logic of hierarchy and of desire, and attempting to identify and recover through her fictional scenarios different responses to oppression and domination than becoming a victim.	2005-08-10
US	51036953	R21GS9M54EIADR	0374345899	692276185	The Flower Hunter: William Bartram, America's First Naturalist (Outstanding Science Trade Books for Students K-12)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	a very fine book about a remarkable man	This is a fine children's book about the life of William Bartram, one of America's early and great naturalists.  The story is told in the form of a journal, written by the young William, and is accompanied by helpful maps and vivid illustrations of scenes from his various journeys.  Begun on his eighth birthday, the brief but evocative journal entries tell of the boy's early interest in botany, and of his longing to accompany his father John Bartram on his explorations of the newly colonized Americas.  He learns to make detailed renderings of leaves, and to identify the various types of plants in the region.  Historical details are introduced casually, in the matter-of-fact manner of a child.  He tells, for example, of a war between the British and the French that caused them to cancel a journey, or of his encounter with a friend of his father's -- Benjamin Franklin!! - who explains to him the marvels of electricity.  We eventually see the young boy grow into a man, who is both sensitive to nature and respectful of the diverse cultures of the various inhabitants of the land.  Particularly poignant is the subtle manner in which the author portrays the young man's attachment to and feeling for his aging father, as indicated in a pivotal scene where the son must rescue his father from drowning.  Or in a later scene when William brings stories of a lovely but as-yet unnamed tree.  His father has lost his vision, and cannot see the drawings that his son brings home for him, but together they name the species Franklinia, in honor of their mutual friend.  In an informative afterward, the author points out that this tree has only survived today due to the plantings of it that Bartram made on his farm.  This is a very simple and unassuming story, about a remarkable man, that can be appreciated by both young and old.  It introduced me to a part of American history that I knew little about, and even inspired my two children to begin journals of the things they discover in nature.re.	2005-06-12
US	51036953	RK9OKIUQJ2I4K	0439313317	461286057	Power Of Un	Books	5	10	10	N	N	a well-written, intriguing book on the impact of choices	I've been reading a lot of books to my kids lately -- they are right at the age where they enjoy books that I can enjoy reading to them.  We did all the old classics (Narnia, Hobbit, Earthsea, Mixed Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. F., etc.) and a few obvious ones (the Harry Potter series) and then started reading some newer ones that were recommended to us.  So much that is out there has interesting or clever premises but is either terribly written (e.g. the Animorphs series) or is fairly light and weak on content (e.g. even though my kids love them, I'd have to put the Lemony Snicket books here - yes they are clever and well-written, but in the end they are just stories about an implausible series of, well, unfortunate events that happen to implausibly bright and resourceful children).<br /><br />The Power of Un, though, is both very well written and raises lots of interesting and provocative questions.  At the core of the book is the idea that what you do matters, that actions have consequences -- and anything that can convey that message to children without boring them or making them feel like they are hearing a lecture is a good thing.  My kids didn't want me to put it down for the few nights it took to read it, and I didn't want to either.  A good book, whose author deserves high praise -- though not quite as high as I gave it (I'd give it four stars but I accidentally hit five and Amazon won't let you change that for some reason).	2005-06-12
US	51036953	R1VU5K1JQJ225H	0415254086	411173754	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (Routledge Classics) (Volume 123)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	How to stop doing philosophy	There's a lot going on in this little book.  I take it, though, that at its core the thesis of the book is fairly straightforward (even if controversial):<br /><br />What can be said (i.e. what can be meaningfully uttered, i.e. what can be said in such a way as to have an unambiguous meaning) can be said clearly (i.e. can be said in such a way as to make perfect sense and be easily understood).  Nothing else should be said.  This has the implication that instead of doing philosophy, we should let scientists do their things, we should talk about things around us (\\"warm weather today, huh\\" \\"There is a red tailed sparrow on the top of that tree!\\"), and not sully our feeling that there is something more by talking about it in ways that will not make sense.<br /><br />The argument fits nicely with a style of poetry and art that is contemporary with Wittgenstein, that consists of simply painting things as they are seen, and calling attention to the ordinary everyday around you in such a way as to summon its power to astound (e.g. Rilke or Proust).  The aim ultimately, for W., is to stop theorizing about things and to just live in the moment.  In that way, it is close to Buddhist and other insights.<br /><br />Great book, well worth reading.  Not an easy read though.	2005-05-31
US	51036953	RHI8T1UZF43J8	0872200477	61878932	The Basic Political Writings (English and French Edition)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A great collection of works by an unequalled thinker	It is often said that Descartes is the father of modern philosophy; but much of modern philosophy would be unthinkable without the writings of Rousseau.  While Descartes put epistemology at the center of philosophy, and used reflections on subjectivity as a means to knowing, Rousseau put the historical human being at the center of his thinking, and thus paved the way not only for Kant but for Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, Nietzsche, and Kierkegaard.<br /><br />These texts are the ones to look to for the core of his thinking.  Read the first and second discourses first -- of which the second is the most critical, but the first gives an easy orientation to his general strategy.  The Social Contract is extremely relevant today, when words like \\"democracy\\" are bandied about unthinkingly.  Rousseau identifies there what a genuine democracy requires: that individuals become prepared through education to cast their vote for what they think is the general good.  The conditions for this cannot be established overnight, and cannot be imposed by war or by political pressure.<br /><br />This is another fine edition by Hackett, who cannot be commended enough for their excellent series of inexpensive philosophical texts.  After reading this, take a look at Rousseau's two other brilliant pieces (among many more): Emile, and his Autobiography.	2005-05-28
US	51036953	R24K7SQVVEX650	0439678137	8643683	Gregor the Overlander	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A fun, easy read for parents and children	I picked this up for something to read to my children (ages 3 to 9), and they absolutely loved it.  We finished the whole story in three nights, reading a part each evening.  The story was excellent, and captured the interest of each of my children (bats, rats, cockroaches, adventure .... what is not to like), and even I found the story captivated me to the point where I \\"cheated\\" on the last part and read ahead of my children to see what would happen.<br /><br />One of the interesting features of the book is the way it deals with race.  There is only a passing reference to the fact that Gregor, the main character, is darker skinned than would be expected of even an overlander -- and that this feature led various characters (rats and others) to consider that he was of the same descent as his father.  There is no value judgment implied, and while there is not enough to be sure even what race Gregor might be other than Caucasian, the fact it is a part of the story without forcing itself upon the reader raises interesting questions that could be discussed with somewhat mature readers -- say, of age 8 and above.  Do they think, for example, that there is enough evidence from the story to tell anything about the ethnicity of the main character?  What does this fact about the character say about him and about the story?  What difference does it make to the story and should it make more of a difference?	2005-05-27
US	51036953	R1M2HNWC9JE02Y	0415226759	676838844	Introduction to Logic	Books	5	195	197	N	N	Exceptional guide to logic for philosophy students	I agree with the other reviewers of this text that it is the best I've encountered (I have taught several different sections of logic over nearly ten years, using 6 or 7 different texts, and have reviewed countless others).  The writing is admirably clear and precise, and reads well.  Nothing extraneous here, but there is enough to elucidate ideas and strategies.  There are two key features that distinguish this text from others, and render it extremely valuable.<br /><br />(1) the examples and logic problems are INTERESTING, mostly because they are invariably drawn from philosophical arguments; this gives me an opportunity to tie the teaching of logic to discussion of philosophy and makes the relevance of logic to philosophy very clear; I often find students who are interested in philosophy because they have read existentialism or even Plato, and who appreciate the play of ideas they find in these texts; what they do not understand is that the poetry of ideas must be tied to logic, and, more importantly, that there is a kind of poetic rigor to logic; this text helps to make that clear.<br /><br />(2) Gensler has developed a remarkably simple set of strategies for proof construction, that eliminates much of the confusion and ambiguity that students experience when encountering proofs for the first time; his \\"star test\\" for testing syllogisms is excellent, and a cinch to apply; it is even easier to grasp than Venn diagrams and is more versatile; his strategy for proofs in propositional and predicate logic is the best and easiest I've seen anywhere, and combines the merits of truth trees with standard deductive proofs, and has the advantage of yielding both proofs of validity and refutations by the very same method.  The ease of the strategy means that it is possible to move much further in a single semester than usual.  The content of the book goes further, too, than many of the standard textbooks.  He goes into modal logic, belief logic, deontic logic and even has a chapter presenting a formalized ethical theory.  Very cool stuff!!<br /><br />(3) The only weakness I have found is in his explanation of translations; where he is very helpful and precise with strategies for producing proofs and refutations, his guidelines for producing translations into formal symbolism are a bit more vague and amount to only a few guidelines and a bit of hand waving.  Still, even here I haven't seen much better elsewhere, so this is a minor quibble.  In the context of my classroom, it just meant that this was something we spent more time on.<br /><br />I really can't recommend this book highly enough for those who are interested in logic.nting a formalized ethical theory.  Very cool stuff!!    (3) The only weakness I have found is in his explanation of translations; where he is very helpful and precise with strategies for producing proofs and refutations, his guidelines for producing translations into formal symbolism are a bit more vague and amount to only a few guidelines and a bit of hand waving.  Still, even here I haven't seen much better elsewhere, so this is a minor quibble.  In the context of my classroom, it just meant that this was something we spent more time on.    I really can't recommend this book highly enough for those who are interested in logic.	2005-05-18
US	51036953	R19NHPKI4HQKO3	0415247969	692978811	On Film (Thinking in Action)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Finding philosophy in blockbuster sci-fi/action/horror films	Stephen Mulhall's excellent little book on film is not really a comprehensive account of the nature of film or of film studies (though it does address in important ways a number of issues that are highly relevant to the field of film studies), but a consideration of film from the standpoint of a philosopher and a reflection upon the way in which films carry and explore ideas.<br /><br />The Matrix proved that even in a blockbuster film, ideas can be as important to its ability to captivate and entertain as the action.  What made that film work was not just style and special effects, but the fact it played with philosophical and theological concerns -- from free will and skepticism, to the nature of fallenness and of enlightenment.  Ideas are so important to the Matrix series that there are several books out now outlining the backdrop to the philosophical questions contained there; and a commentary disk on the new Matrix collection focuses primarily on its philosophical content.<br /><br />What Mulhall does in \\"On Film\\" is consider another popular set of science fiction films from the perspective of philosophy.  This time, however, the films are deliberately chosen as ones that do not explicitly raise philosophical themes, or advertise themselves as \\"philosophical,\\" but where (he contends, admirably) making sense of their plot and making sense of the films as a series requires one to think about them as if they were, in their own right, philosophical \\"texts\\".  As it turns out, there is much to say about these films, both on their own, and as a series, from the perspective of philosophy.  For Mulhall, however, this doesn't just mean that one should look to the films (as one does to the Matrix) as illustrations of philosophical themes that have been discussed elsewhere, but that one can look to these films as philosophical in their own right: as raising questions of the type that interest philosophers and presenting evidence that is in its own way compelling for thinking about these questions.<br /><br />It's a great read, and I would strongly disagree with the other reviewer who dismisses the writing as being merely clever but without substance.  It is, however, not an easy read, and that may account for the reviewer's concerns: contrary to what might be expected from the title this is not pitched as an introduction to thinking about film.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend it for someone who doesn't have at least some background in literary or film criticism or philosophy (preferably in hermeneutics or phenomenology or critical theory -- since A.J. Ayer and the like won't be much help here).  The main prerequisite is that one be willing, as Mulhall requires, to consider the possibility that philosophy can appear directly in film and literature and art and not only in the form of explicit argumentation.  (But one must admit this possibility even to read Plato intelligently).<br /><br />But I guess I would recommend it for a serious fan of the series (or of their directors, whose work beyond the Alien series is also considered), who might not be as worried about the overall thesis of the book about the relation of film and philosophy.  Even for such a reader, it offers a very illuminating account of the four films that addresses a number of interesting questions about the series: why the Alien is so horrifying, what about Ripley's character makes her a perfect protagonist for such an antagonist, why the fourth film was composed as it was and why it is not simply a failure, etc.  As film criticism, it is pitched more or less at the level of a journal like Cineaste of Film Comment.  I found it to be an excellent read, with ideas that I go back to on a regular basis in my own thinking about film and about philosophy.e questions.       It's a great read, and I would strongly disagree with the other reviewer who dismisses the writing as being merely clever but without substance.  It is, however, not an easy read, and that may account for the reviewer's concerns: contrary to what might be expected from the title this is not pitched as an introduction to thinking about film.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend it for someone who doesn't have at least some background in literary or film criticism or philosophy (preferably in hermeneutics or phenomenology or critical theory -- since A.J. Ayer and the like won't be much help here).  The main prerequisite is that one be willing, as Mulhall requires, to consider the possibility that philosophy can appear directly in film and literature and art and not only in the form of explicit argumentation.  (But one must admit this possibility even to read Plato intelligently).      But I guess I would recommend it for a serious fan of the series (or of their directors, whose work beyond the Alien series is also considered), who might not be as worried about the overall thesis of the book about the relation of film and philosophy.  Even for such a reader, it offers a very illuminating account of the four films that addresses a number of interesting questions about the series: why the Alien is so horrifying, what about Ripley's character makes her a perfect protagonist for such an antagonist, why the fourth film was composed as it was and why it is not simply a failure, etc.  As film criticism, it is pitched more or less at the level of a journal like Cineaste of Film Comment.  I found it to be an excellent read, with ideas that I go back to on a regular basis in my own thinking about film and about philosophy.	2005-01-02
US	51036953	R37FYIAALEIOQO	0810105942	188218842	Genesis and Structure of Hegel's "Phenomenology of Spirit" (Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy)	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Good companion to reading the Phenomenology of Spirit	Like the other reviewer of this book, I would not suggest this as a replacement to the reading of Hegel's Phenomenology.  It is, rather, a good thing to read after you have worked through the Phenomenology on your own, or while you are studying it in a class.  It is not really an introduction to Hegel, and shouldn't be read first.  This is mainly because Hyppolite stays very close to the text of Hegel.  Often, when you want him to just say what Hegel means in a passage, Hyppolite ends up saying something that amounts more to a paraphrase than a literal explication in simpler terms.  That is fine, though, if what you are interested in is discussing this rich text on its own terms with someone who has clearly spent a lot of time with it and who knows the Hegelian corpus intimately.  In his refusal to simply say what Hegel means in terms other than the ones Hegel employs (or rather: in terms other than Hyppolite's own French translations of Hegel's German terms, that are for this text translated into English), Hyppolite appears to be responding to his contemporary Kojeve, who does sometimes take Hegel too literally, and -- while his readings are always incredibly illuminating and persuasive -- appears to put too much weight on some of the early moves of Hegel's self-consciousness chapter while failing to appreciate its later developments.<br /><br />You should go to Hyppolite as to a very intelligent companion, who has spent a lot of time with a text that you also are interested in, not as a first source of instruction.  I would never suggest you use commentaries as a way into Hegel's text without at least beginning to grapple with the text on your own -- since it's too easy to find yourself trapped by the seeming obviousness of one way of reading the text -- but I know first hand that if you try to do this with Hyppolite you won't get too far.  Better companion texts for a first read would be Charles Taylor's \\"Hegel\\" (which is not always accurate and precise, but is always clear and gives a good general take on the various stages of Hegel's book that helps you not to be totally lost in the details), and John Russon's \\"Reading Hegel's Phenomenology\\" (which has the advantage of consisting of several relatively independent chapters that can each be read on its own as a commentary on the various sections of Hegel's book, and which does an exceptional job connecting up the themes of each chapter with themes that each of us must grapple with in our everyday life).<br /><br />Hyppolite does identify several of the historical and literary references that Hegel has in mind, and amplify and expand on points that Hegel touches on briefly, and that can help to clarify a preliminary understanding of the text.  His text's real worth, however, can only be appreciated when you've spent some time grappling with Hegel's text on its own.ys clear and gives a good general take on the various stages of Hegel's book that helps you not to be totally lost in the details), and John Russon's \\"Reading Hegel's Phenomenology\\" (which has the advantage of consisting of several relatively independent chapters that can each be read on its own as a commentary on the various sections of Hegel's book, and which does an exceptional job connecting up the themes of each chapter with themes that each of us must grapple with in our everyday life).      Hyppolite does identify several of the historical and literary references that Hegel has in mind, and amplify and expand on points that Hegel touches on briefly, and that can help to clarify a preliminary understanding of the text.  His text's real worth, however, can only be appreciated when you've spent some time grappling with Hegel's text on its own.	2004-12-28
US	51036953	R2TLMS0HMQUK6J	0534584551	814956528	The Elements of Reasoning	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Good, quick introduction to logic	Munson and Conway do a very fine job in this little text, introducing the subject matter of logic with enough detail to get you started.  There are, of course, lots of textbooks out there that go into lots more detail.  But this one is about right if you want to pick it up and cover the basics on your own.  You learn what an argument is and how to recognize them and analyze them, what the basic types of arguments are (deductive and inductive) and how they differ and how to assess each type for its success as an inductive argument and for its validity as a deductive argument.  There is coverage of basic propositional logic and proofs, and coverage of categorical syllogisms and Venn diagrams.  There are chapters on fallacies (though I have a minor quibble with them on which fallacies to include in an intro text, the chapter does give a good overview), on probabilistic reasoning, on causal reasoning, and on writing logically.<br /><br />I assign this one as a basic text in my introduction to logic course -- largely because I can't see the point of assigning a big textbook that will cost them $90 when this one covers what I need, and I can supplement it with other materials of my own choosing.  One advantage you would get from some of the more expensive texts (e.g. Hurley or Copi's introductory textbooks) is access to a computer based program that can guide you through problems.  Otherwise, in terms of coverage and clarity, this text works quite well.	2004-12-28
US	51036953	R3E8YNNH1G6WYP	0810906066	46307338	A World History of Film	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thorough and readable introduction to history of cinema	Sklar's book is an excellent overview of the history of world cinema, from its development (at least in prototype form) in the late 19th century until about ten years ago.  I assigned it as a text for my \\"International Cinema\\" course, and was on the whole quite satisfied with what my students learned from it.  While there are a wealth of details, and you could get lost if you didn't have at least some familiarity with films he mentions, the book is fairly accessible to the novice and is certainly readable.<br /><br />Sklar is an excellent writer, who is able to sum things up in ways that are clear, accurate and precise.  Each chapter covers a period in the history of cinema in such a way that even without knowing all the films he mentions you can still get a rough idea of what the trends were, that would form a space for subsequent learning.  You'd get even more details, say, in the Oxford History of World Cinema, but what I like about Sklar's book is that it feels a bit more like a coherent and continuous narrative.<br /><br />He does a great job moving back and forth between various national cinemas and the dominant Hollywood tradition, showing how Hollywood (and American cinema generally) put its stamp on world cinema while at the same time identifying the ways in which national cinemas developed their own identity in distinction from and sometimes in reaction to the influence of Hollywood.  There is much to recommmend Sklar's approach, and if you want a manageable tome that gives enough detail for a basic grasp without being overwhelming, I can't think of a better text.	2004-12-25
US	51036953	R1MG1HOYJLREFR	0452279577	823397849	The Filmmaker's Handbook: A Comprehensive Guide for the Digital Age	Books	5	21	22	N	N	An excellent overview of the business of filmmaking	For those who love films but don't really know what's involved in their getting made, this is an excellent guide.  Of course, it's even more indispensible for those who hope one day to make a film but aren't currently involved in the business.  I emphasize \\"business\\" here because this isn't really a guide to the art of making films; you could imagine a similar book called \\"The Entrepeneur's Handbook: A comprehensive guide to establishing your own business in the age of the internet\\" and it would cover the same types of topics.  For a guide to the art of filmmaking/directing, my favorite book is \\"Film Directing Fundamentals\\" by Nicholas Proferes.  But for the practical and day to day and big picture of the business of filmmaking, \\"The Filmmaker's Handbook\\" is Indispensible: an excellent and thorough introduction and guide to the processes, the people, the arrangements, the contracts, the details that go into making films, especially independent films.<br /><br />I required this book as one of the textbooks for my film history course on \\"American Independent Film\\" because it seemed to me there was no better way to indicate to students how much is involved in getting films made.  It's a very helpful piece of the course and gives students a perspective that they wouldn't get from my own emphasis on film theory and criticism.	2004-12-24
US	51036953	R15LNV8A48O0C3	0340773464	527189350	Superphonics: Bk. 2	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent series for teaching children to read	I discovered the Superphonics series, by Ruth Miskin, when I was teaching college in London with my family for a semester.  My oldest children were 3 and 5, and I was looking for something that would help me in teaching them to read.  I had gone through standard phonics books in the United States and used lots of supplements that seemed like the best things available, but nothing could really grab the attention of my children and present information in a simple and easy way.  The Superphonics series did that, and literally in a matter of weeks with these products they were reading full sentences.  The books begin with what seems to me to be the most natural approach: rather than teach children how to say the names of the letters, teach them how to say the sound that they most commonly represent.  And then, associate each letter with an easy-to-understand picture of an object that both looks like the letter and whose name begins with the letter.  &quot;a&quot; is a tilted apple, &quot;b&quot; is a boot, &quot;c&quot; is a curled up caterpillar, and so on.  Subsequent books teach kids to read groups of words, by means of rhyming games.  Each exercise, and each lesson, embodies activities and pictures that call upon a number of different learning styles and modalities.  And the illustrations are top notch, easily appreciated by children, and not annoying to parents (like myself) who don't like to see kitchy or &quot;branded&quot; illustrations in the books they read to their children.  I can't say enough about this, and am glad to see that it is now available in the United States.  (It wasn't when I looked for it here after I came home.  You are still not likely to find it in major book chains, whose lines of educational products are largely dominated by the major publishing houses.)  If you have young children or if you are an educator, I strongly recommend this series by Ruth Miskin.	2004-05-05
US	51036953	R3S0GPKLJQ5QL4	0393972135	726757293	The Art of Reasoning (Third Edition)	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Accessible and Rigorous Introduction to Logic	David Kelley's book is a well-conceived introduction to logic.  I think that the first few chapters, on concepts and definitions, are a nice way to begin thinking about what is involved in thinking.  These chapters, as well  as subsequent ones, are clear at the same time that they are rigorous.  I  have used this as a textbook for introductory logic classes, and while  there are many others that cover the same material, I have yet to find one  that surpasses its basic accessibility without sacrificing rigor.  There  are however, it should be mentioned, a few typos in the exercises.<br /><br />I  would also like to point out with respect to the reviews above that  criticize the book on the basis of Kelley's interest in objectivism, that  if the reviewer(s) had read the book, they would have been able to  recognize at least two fallacies implicit in their review: ad hominem &  poisoning the well.  In any case, as far as I can tell, Kelley's views on  objectivism have nothing to do with the presentation or content of the  text.	2000-04-12
US	51036953	R2R2LT2T0NBYEX	0802009190	475268553	The Self and its Body in Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit (Toronto Studies in Philosophy)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Rigorous and readable account of the body in Hegel's thought	John Russon's ambitious aim in this book is twofold: (1) to identify the conception of the body that is implied by the argument of Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit, and (2) to provide a systematic argument that  shows this conception of the body to be both comprehensive and compelling.  Not only does the book make a good case for having succeeded in these aims,  it also provides material for a very careful and provocative  reinterpretation of Hegel's Phenomenology that should prove readable and  insightful for both general readers with interests in the history of  philosophy as well as trained philosophers.<br />Russon shows that the body  that animates the forms of experience that Hegel studies in his text cannot  be adequately conceived as reducible to the merely physical organism.  In  an important early chapter, Russon gives an account of the systematic way  in which Hegel's philosophy challenges and overcomes the dualism of  immaterial mind and physical body that stands at the heart of early modern  philosophy and science.  He argues that the body as we experience it is not  merely a natural entity (physis), but is a construct of habit and  institutions; our experience of the body is not one merely of nature, but  of second nature, as Aristotle described the habitual formation of social  dispositions (hexis).  The final chapters of the text aim to show,  moreover, that this &quot;habit-body&quot; should be conceived ultimately  as emerging through communicative activity (logos), and that the ongoing  process whereby we (non-arbitrarily) constitute ourselves and our world  along with others is precisely what is thematized in Hegel's dialectical  phenomenology.<br />Considering the difficulty of the topic, and the vast  resources that the argument draws upon, the text is remarkably clear (and  concise, at just 137 pages).  You need not have spent several years poring  over the details of Hegel's challenging and dense text in order to gain  much benefit from reading Russon's book.  In addition, the book has the  merit of demonstrating (against a number of prejudices from a number of  sources) that Hegel's philosophy can be a rich resource for thinking  through a number of topics of contemporary concern.  Russon's conclusions  in fact converge nicely with recent efforts in a number of disciplines to  draw attention to the embodied character of experience, cognition, and  culture.ading Russon's book.  In addition, the book has the  merit of demonstrating (against a number of prejudices from a number of  sources) that Hegel's philosophy can be a rich resource for thinking  through a number of topics of contemporary concern.  Russon's conclusions  in fact converge nicely with recent efforts in a number of disciplines to  draw attention to the embodied character of experience, cognition, and  culture.	2000-01-26
US	51036953	R3UVVCOAW8OA3T	0791432750	513782424	Hegel's Transcendental Induction (Suny Series in Hegelian Studies)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The role of experiential learning in Hegel's Phenomenology	Simpson's book provides a provocative and interesting reading of several important sections of the Phenomenology of Spirit, that treats this text as a whole as a study in the &quot;logic&quot; of induction.  He does not  consider Hegel's work to be &quot;inductive&quot; in the modern (Lockeian)  sense of adding facts upon facts in order to arrive at general conclusions.  Rather, Simpson claims that Hegel's argument in the Phenomenology  progresses as we (the readers) come to learn from experience what it means  to learn from experience.  In other words, Simpson aims to show that within  Hegel's Phenomenology the concept of induction itself develops inductively.  Simpson concludes by indicating briefly the way in which the  &quot;inductive&quot; argument that he traces throughout Hegel's text both  supports and coincides with the &quot;deductive&quot; side of Hegel's  argument that is more often the focus of commentators.<br />Simpson's thesis  - that Hegel's text traces a pathway whereby the capacity for conscious  experiencing is shown to develop in response to progressively more  sophisticated attempts to articulate and unify experience - receives a  capable and insightful defense here.  In addition, his study as a whole  provides a worthwhile and interesting perspective from which to reexamine  Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit.  His focus on the way in which Hegel's  philosophy responds to and develops out of an active concern with actual  experience should also provide a strong theoretical basis from which to  approach the question of the way in which Hegel's other systematic writings  on nature, history, art, religion and politics were informed by and  developed in response to Hegel's own scientific, cultural, religious and  political experiences.  Above all, it is only in light of such  investigations that, as it seems to me, we can address adequately the  question of the ways in which Hegel's philosophy is relevant today.	1999-12-30
