US	51036377	RPSZAFNH0HN3H	0812550234	622239218	Primary Inversion (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Unique sci-fi	Asaro's future universe:    There are essentially 3 civilizations in Asaro's future universe. The Allied Worlds are those established by humans from Earth. The Skolian Empire and the Eubians (the Trader Empire) are remnants of another human civilization (the Raylicon Empire) that left Earth long ago and established a presence in the stars. When the Allied humans left Earth to explore the universe, they were suprised to find that humans were already there.    Allied humans are much like you and me. Skolians, however, are generally empaths, and their civilization is based on a royal family with exceptionally strong empathetic abilities. They are \\"psions\\", who can read emotion almost as well as communicating with words. The Eubians (or Traders) literally derive pleasure from the pain of a psion, who transmits the emotion and amplifies it like an antenna. Some of the Eubians are pretty nasty in their taste for the pain of their Skolian pleasure slaves. Other Eubians, however, aren't so bad.    The Skolians and Eubians are always either on the verge of war or are at war, and the Allieds try to be neutral.     This book, in particular, deals with one Skolian heir who is admirable in the way that she is a strong and amazingly capble woman. Sauscony Valdoria (or \\"Soz\\"), heir to the Skolian throne, is a Jag pilot, an elite fighter group composed entirely of highly empathetic psions. Soz can deal out some serious butt-whoopin' when she needs to, but her personality is more of an INFP for those of you familiar with the Myers-Briggss personality test. Soz is an introverted, intuitive, feeling and perceiving person who is exceptionally intelligent. The plot is well written and intriguing.    The science:    \\"Inversion\\" is a concept developed by Catherine Asaro to account for rapid transit through large distances in space; a possible solution to the problem of time dilation. Einstein kind of put a stick in the mud when, in 1905, he told everyone that Special Relativity wrote in auniversal speed limit at ~3x10^8 m/s, citing anyone caught travelling near this speed with a significant time penalty. Some authors embrace time dilation, like Poul Anderson in \\"Tau Zero\\" and Joe Haldeman in \\"The Forever War\\". Others find ways around it, like Gene Roddenberry in the \\"Star Trek\\" series. Other authors ignore it altogether.  The neat thing about Asaro's solution, however, is that it is mathematically explicit, even if it is not possible by today's understanding of real and imaginary numbers and their role in real space.     -- For the reader who is not fond of math, skip this paragraph. For everyone else, read on -- All numbers have a real and imaginary part, i.e., a+ib, where \\"a\\" is the real coordinate and \\"b\\" is the imaginary coordinate. \\"i\\" is the imaginary number i=sqrt(-1).  In Einstein's equation for time dilation, if one simply makes a substitution \\"iV\\" for the velocity \\"V\\", one gets an i^2 term in the equation, which is simply \\"-1\\". This completely changes the behavior of Special Relativity.  It breaks the speed limit, and time dilation can even become \\"time reduction\\". Similarly, length contraction becomes \\"length elongation\\", and the mass inflation term (defined in terms of momentum), actually becomes \\"mass reduction\\".      It's pretty neat how it all works out, actually. It would be to one's benefit to simply flip oneself out of real space and into imaginary space, and then hit the gas pedal. The faster you go, the lighter you get, and you can actually make time on the way. In fact, you could go back in time if you felt like it (if Hawking finds a way around the 2nd Law of Thermodynamics).  With this simple mathematical trick, Asaro has opened up a science fiction can of worms, where she can put an infinite number of spins on a fundamental plot line.    That's not all Asaro came up with. Her background in chemical physics has given her the ability to take relevant real world problems and incorporate them into her fiction. Imagine Klein Bottles that maintain objects in imaginary space while being transported through real space. Quantum stasis fields that freeze all the atoms in an atomic state and hold them there for a finite time. An infinite information network that spans all of real space while only existing in imaginary space. This is neat stuff.    Perhaps the best thing about this book (and her other books) is that Asaro balances hard science fiction with a genuine effort to write about *people*. Catherine Asaro is a unique woman because she is not only a chemical physicist (Ph.D., Harvard), but also a ballerina. Her characters often show a similar duality. Some of her books are more romance novels than hard sci fi, but there are quite a few gems in this series. \\"Primary Inversion\\", \\"Radiant Seas\\", \\"The Moon's Shadow\\", and \\"Schism\\" all tell the story of Sauscony Valdoria and her kids, and these are some of her most \\"hard\\" sci fi novels. In addition, the story of Soz's brother, Kelric, is told in \\"The Last Hawk\\" and \\"Ascendant Sun\\", and both of these novels are equally entertaining.	2005-01-07
US	51036377	R2XYOKJ8TDD5KQ	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A book that surprised me more than once	Horselover Fat is your objective narrator. As an outside person, it is his job to tell the story in 3rd person. However, Horselover Fat is also your main character, who occasionally tells his story in 1st person. Therefore, the narration of the story routinely slips between 3rd and 1st person. In fact, Horselover Fat will routinely describe events concerning Horselover Fat while expressing his concern for Horselover Fat. It's quite entertaining, actually. <br /> <br />Mr.Fat is a sad man living in California in the 1970s.  He survives multiple attempts to kill himself in this book, and though you are certain he is crazy, he will occasionally break through the nonsense with statements of rational clarity. He has a wife (who left him), and a son (who went with his wife), and several \\"friends\\". One of them has cancer and she loathes herself, and though Fat attempts to save her, he inevitably fails. During the first half of the novel he is working dilligently on his \\"exegis\\", a series of grammatically complex statements that have something to do with civilization, humanity, God, religion, awareness, existence, and maybe something else. In fact, several parts of the exegis are cited in the book, along with footnotes for further reference. Perhaps one of the most entertaining dialogues is between Fat and his therapist while they are discussing obscure references about existentialist ideas. His therapist replies to every odd question Fat proposes without missing a beat, and Fat finally feels as if he has met someone who understands him. Later, when Fat has left the mental hospital and moved on to other things, he realizes that his therapist had tricked him. Perhaps his therapist hadn't understood anything about Fat, but instead, by talking to him directly, he distracted Fat from his depression and let him focus on what he thought was important. After that, Fat went back to dilligently working on his exegis, thankful to his therapist for his genius. <br /> <br />If you arenot prepared for it, you might find yourself getting lost in the first part of the book because Fat talks himself in circles and you begin to wonder if there is a point. After awhile, however, you start to pick up on an underlying theme. It has a lot to do with human existence, free will, and similar metaphysical concepts. When you finish the book, you may feel enlightened, confused, or both.  <br /> <br />However, I wouldn't bash this book just because I didn't understand all of its subtleties. It made me think, and that's exactly why I started reading it in the first place. Therefore, I am satisfied. 5 stars for \\"Valis\\", I say, and hats off to the late Philip K. Dick for being so creative.	2005-01-07
US	51036377	R2X0HL7PEDI96M	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good and Hard SciFi	Here's the premise: It's the mid 1990s (written several decades ago) and humanity has discovered far-space travel with help from \\"collapsars\\" - the equivalent of the now-cliche wormhole.  An exploration crew is supposedly destroyed by an alien vessel, and war ensues.    However, this is a realistic war for this universe.  Assuming we all believe in Special Relativity, Einstein told us long ago that we massive bodies cannot travel at relativistic velocities without suffering the consequences of time dilation.  Popping out of a collapsar leaves a ship with lots of momentum, coasting along at 0.9c.  Moving about in a star system usually involves acceleration and deceleration at these velocities, and as a result, every crew only ages a few months while the rest of the universe ages by years. Warfare stretches on for centuries because of time dilation, and so the characters in this book left families behind as soon as they jumped on a ship. As they traveled, the world they knew aged and changed while they stayed the same age.    There is much more to it than that, but the reader should pick up the book and make these judgements for him/herself. There is an aroma of the Vietnam conflict in this book, and there is an underlying criticism of the human tendency to fight with itself.      All in all, this book has everything. Hard sci fi, some really good shoot-em-up scenes, a hardened hero with a love interest, and an interesting perspective on far-future humanity.  I was so into this book that I started to read it at 4 pm and was finished by midnight.  Highly recommended for fans of good old-fashioned science fiction with a military edge.	2004-11-22
US	51036377	R3J921K2GNOMXG	020106894X	460299089	Thermodynamics, Kinetic Theory, and Statistical Thermodynamics (3rd Edition)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Consider this book as a secondary reference	Not very useful. <br /> <br />That was my first impression of this book. Suppose I had left my review to the three words above. You would have been left with an empty feeling with expectations unfulfilled, wondering if there was more to it than just those words.  You'd probably say my review wasn't very helpful.  <br /> <br />Well, that about sums up my feelings for this text. Every time I open it for reference, I read a few pages, looking for something that just doesn't seem to be there. I am left with expectations unfulfilled, wondering if I was missing something.  I usually put it back on the shelf and move to the next book, thinking \\"Hmm. That wasn't very helpful.\\" <br /> <br />This book sits in my library next to the Callen text on thermo and stat mech.  I also have a copy of Reichl's stat mech text. Between Salinger, Callen, and Reichl, one might begin to get a handle on the subject, but not one of these books is the *definitive* text on the subject. I haven't found that one yet. I would suggest that if one is looking for yet another reference text, put this one in the number 2 or number 3 slot on your list. <br /> <br />	2004-11-22
US	51036377	R1KT5JAACBHJ52	0521559251	544092170	Physical Metallurgy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book is a FANTASTIC reference text	One look through the index will show you all you want to know. Check out this list of random buzz words from metallurgy and physics:Phonon Spectra, Rutherford backscattering, Spinodal decomposition, TEM bright field imaging, magnetic susceptibility, Kikuchi patterns, Phase diagrams, Van der Waals bond... <br /> <br />Isn't that great? For anybody doing any sort of work related to metallurgy, this text represents an excellent source for information that is general enough for daily use, but specific enough to be useful.  Every chapter is very well written and can stand alone without the rest of the text. There are several volumes to this text, I believe, so be sure to find all of them.	2004-11-17
US	51036377	RIPWVB05TUDEO	0748757414	229624302	Phase Transformations in Metals and Alloys, Second Edituion	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Text Book	<br />This is one of those rare gems of a text that delivers information almost every time you look at it. Strongly recommended for students of materials science or researchers who are working with mats. sci. or metallurgy.  There are comprehensive sections on nucleation and diffusion, topics that are often mentioned but rarely explained to a sufficient degree. The section on thermodynamics provides enough relevant information to bring home the point that there is more to thermo than \\"a piston in a chamber with a permeable wall...(etc etc etc)\\" .  It is a particularly useful reference for free energy considerations when examining phase transformations in solids, as the title plainly states! <br /> <br />This book should be handed off to students in materials science on principle (but only if they promise to read it).	2004-11-17
US	51036377	R3MLWVPPSQ77WL	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	11	15	N	Y	Baffling, challenging, astounding, invigorating, ETC.	No ordinary methods of review can possibly describe the purpose of this novel.  I choose to write this review while I am still immersed in the text, only because I fear that if I attempt to write about it after I am finished with it, I will lose the impression of the force that this novel exerts on my mind with every moment of each passing day. While reading this novel, I continually struggle with a small voice in the back of my head that tells me I am missing something. There are sentences in the book that are burned into my mind, and there are ideas that are so eloquently expressed that they name some unknown desire that has been driving me for years. There are characters in this novel that I love with a love that Ayn Rand puts into words. There are also characters that I despise, and she names that feeling of disgust again and again. Yet while I want to understand these characters, I struggle with other concepts. The best characters are driven and focused, and sometimes they are so driven that it seems they have forgotten compassion. They have not only forgotten compassion, but they hate the notion of it. I struggle with this.  There are plenty of ugly characters that use compassion as a guise for doing cowardly things, but the strongest characters are self-motivated and have no desire to hide anything about themselves, including their desire to succeed. Yet I cannot tell if it is my own feeling or a socially imposed feeling that makes me wonder if there is any evil in being selfish.  There is something that Ayn Rand is getting at here, and I won't name it. You (the reader of this review) must read the book for yourself and try to name it. But it comes down to the fact that there is something noble about doing honest work for your own desire.  For me, this is one of those books that makes me think about things that I always think about, yet it twists them into something unrecognizable that I cannot ignore. Everyone should read this book. It is a dense and challenging novel, and this is exactly why I recommend that everyone read it. The way you respond to the novel will tell you a lot about yourself.	2003-12-04
US	51036377	R367IRPX90HKXL	0553572989	847641664	The Rise of Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Number 4 of 4 -- A fantastic conclusion	As I write this review I am completing my second read of the Hyperion series. This second exposure to the series has shown me a few things:<br />1) Dan Simmons has an incredible imagination. He obviously put a lot of thought into the many cultures that might exist in a far-future universe, apparently acquiring some of his descriptions from true life experiences. His description of the mountainous planet where much of the 4th book takes place seems inspired by a trip to Tibet.  More than once, he devotes several pages to merely description. I am an impatient person, so I must admit I skimmed some of these passages the second time through, but this does not mean that I don't appreciate it. I do.<br />2) Simmons was trying to explain many of his views about religion and philosophy by describing them through fiction. Sorry if this isn't the case, Dan, but I couldn't help but wonder if you had recently experienced your own revelations about religion and you needed to write it down.  I am certainly not offended, and I found both the story and ideas within it to be fascinating.<br />3) Despite the fact that Simmons is not officially trained in any of the sciences - from what I've read his background is English Literature - his use of the lingo and understanding of technical topics seems right on. There are marvelous ideas in this story: moving through time, morphing ship hulls, super strong \\"monofilament\\", and \\"doc-in-a-box\\" medical facilities on ships.  Even if he doesn't understand why some of these things might be possible, he makes it sound like he does.  <br />4) Despite minor inconsistencies (for instance, in one part of the story the nemesis Nemes approaches Raul and Aenea in a standoff, and she enters the scene wearing red, but later she is wearing black [?]) the story ties most of the series together quite well. There are some things left unexplained, but I feel this is totally excusable given that the entire series spans approximately 2000 pages. If anyone has ever attempted to write a genuine *book*, then he or she knows how difficult and confusing it can be at times. <br />5) I said it once before and I say it again: I am the Shrike's biggest fan. As mentioned in a previous review, something inconsitent happens between \\"Endymion\\" and \\"The Rise of Endymion\\", where the Shrike seems to become stronger. This goes unexplained, but I humbly justify this inconsistency as such: The Shrike is a product of evolving entities, and its battle with Nemes at the end of the 3rd book must have taught its makers a few lessons. For a \\"machine\\" that exists *through* time, it is undoubtedly true that it should adapt so that it is never obsolete.  I therefore suspect that the Shrike learned to be a bit more tricky when dealing with these hellish vat-born creatures, and I'm happier that it did.  Towards the end of the book, I find myself audibly cheering for the Shrike despite the fact that it is unknown whether it is good or bad.  In addition, its name is cool. Go Shrike.<br />EDIT: Upon finishing the book for the second time yesterday, I forgot how sad the ending is.  It left me in a somber mood, and though there are potentially good things afoot, I found myself grieving at the end of the series. I wanted to read more. Hear that, Dan Simmons? Write another installment, please!	2003-10-15
US	51036377	R2M75MD4IVP5WF	1557882657	221924607	Auto Upholstery & Interiors (HPBOOKS 1265)	Books	3	22	22	N	N	A good starter, but there are no big secrets here!	I purchased this book after I had already begun stripping the interior in my 1998 Jetta GLX. I was hoping to find some tips on sewing. However, the book explicitly states that sewing is outside the scope of the book, and the author recommends that the reader find a professional source for sewing needs. In addition, the book's focus is on older domestic vehicles, so the author's recommedations that one find &quot;restoration kits&quot; may not be applicable for newer imports. Nonetheless, I found some of the information to be quite useful, such as the types of tools needed for this work, the adhesives used, and a fairly instructional section concerning the refurbishing of the headliner. Its not a true DIY book, but it is a decent guide. If there were fractional stars in the rating system, I would give it 3.5 stars, though I can't make myself give it 4.	2003-09-28
US	51036377	R2CWMLZYGROBCV	0471595209	632343203	A Modern Course in Statistical Physics	Books	2	32	34	N	N	Cumbersome	I found this book to be clumsy in its notation and sloppy in its delivery.  The information presented in the book is more than comprehensive, however.  Each chapter ends with a &quot;special topics&quot; section that covers new and old ideas in the field.  Yet the book manages to fall short with its organization and presentation.  When new concepts are introduced, very little background is given, and steps in calculations are often bypassed.  There are many examples to follow, but even the examples seem pointless when the next step in the derivation has been skipped and it takes the reader several minutes to find the connection.  In addition, the book is a somewhat poor reference in the way that many chapters cannot stand alone, due to the quirky notation that is scattered all over the book.  If one is not familiar with this notation, then if one wishes to reference the book, he or she will have to waste time finding out why the author uses a capital N there and a small n here, a &quot;mu prime&quot; there and a &quot;mu&quot; here, or a vector k there and an apparently scalar k here. <br />In summary, the book is comprehensive, covering a wide range of ideas both new and old, but it fails in the fact that it cannot present the information in a clear manner.	2003-03-11
US	51036377	R1HAVLL6J6TNMV	0738204536	608661650	Nonlinear Dynamics And Chaos: With Applications To Physics, Biology, Chemistry, And Engineering (Studies in Nonlinearity)	Books	5	127	129	N	Y	Excellent introduction and reference text	It is rare that books of this type are both comprehensive and readable.  Strogatz has managed to cover a wide range of concepts in significant detail while providing examples to illustrate his major points.    The beginning of the text starts of with one dimensional nonlinear systems of first order (like the logistic equation), and Strogatz outlines the typical framework that one uses to analyze such systems.  He defines fixed points, illustrates and defines bifurcations, and solidifies every claim with good examples.    The text eventually moves to higher order systems with coupled or non-coupled sets of differential equations.  For the most part, exercises for the student involve sets of two differential equations that can be linearized using Jacobian methods.      Later, Strogatz provides a nicely executed description of fractals and fractal dimension, using examples from the Cantor set and the von Koch curve.      The beauty of the book is that it is well written and complete.  It even provides some limited solutions to selected exercises in the back. The examples in the book cover a wide range of areas.  Mechanical oscillating systems like a mass on a spring, electrical circuits that follow the same equations, laser models that follow a modified logistic equation, and many variations of the Lotka-Volterra model are outlined through examples in the text.    The book is a stand-alone text, equally useful as a textbook for an intorductory course or as a reference for someone merely surveying the subject.  It deserves the highest rating possible.    Edit: 2/28/07    Now with a few years of hindsight, I would say this might have been the best stand alone textbook I had in grad school. This was one of the few books I had where I could teach myself the subject matter by just reading it. It is a great book that takes the mysticism out of a new and growing field.	2003-03-07
US	51036377	R1OSCV828D7U2N	0198519613	617175927	Gauge Theory of elementary particle physics	Books	3	12	20	N	Y	Not so elementary	This book was &quot;recommended&quot; for an elective course in particle physics for PhD students at OSU.  Having little to no experience in the field (besides simple modern physics topics like bubble chamber examples and time-dilated lifetimes of particles, etc.) I was hoping that I would get a better introduction.  The book offers no such thing.  It jumps right in with &quot;Basics in Field Quantization&quot; (which is hardly comprehensive) and then blows through everything in high gear. Considering that most students in physics haven't seen particle physics in their core sequence of coursework, I would not recommend this book for a course in particle physics unless the requisites for the course explicitly state that the student should have experience with field theory and an understanding of group theory.  This is definitely a poor source for a student who is seeing the subject for the first time.  For those who are more experienced in particle physics, I would expect that this book is a good reference, though I cannot say that for sure because I am not a member of such a group.  <br />I also purchased the book of solutions to problems in this book.  It sheds some light on the topic, but not much.  Nonetheless, I won't sell this book because sometime down the road I might find it and its companion to be useful.	2002-10-17
US	51036377	R2YJT98OJN69OG	9810231334	230695687	Problems and Solutions on Quantum Mechanics: Major American Universities Ph. D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A Treasure	All of these books titled &quot;Problems and Solutions on (subject): Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions&quot; are invaluable tools for a physics graduate student, in my experience.  For quantum mechanics in particular, solved problems often illustrate difficult concepts better than any explanatory paragraph in a text.<br />Criticism: Sparse index and contents.  You'll find yourself adding notes to pages in the book quite often.<br />If you are a student in physics, I suggest that you get your hands on these books.	2002-10-07
US	51036377	R7B0Q1NLIKX9M	9810200560	602081424	Problems and Solutions on Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics (Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Useful beyond measure	All of these books titled \\"Problems and Solutions on (subject): Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions\\" are invaluable tools for a physics graduate student, in my experience. <br />One criticism: The index for this particular book is nonexistent. I am writing my own in my copy of the book.<br />If you are a student in physics, I suggest that you get your hands on these books.	2002-10-07
US	51036377	R2Y1RKX4SJ5GF0	9810212984	411606379	Problems and Solutions on Mechanics: Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	My new bibles	All of these books titled &quot;Problems and Solutions on (subject): Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions&quot; are invaluable tools for a physics graduate student, in my experience.  When doing homework assignments, studying for exams or the qualifying exam itself, most graduate students should be elated to have an arsenal of solved problems at their disposal.  I have purchased nearly every one of these books and I use them often.  The biggest books (mechanics, quantum, and E&amp;M) are fantastic resources for qualifier problems and examples. When I show these books to my fellow students, they immediately ask me where they can get a copy of their own.<br />One criticism: The index is sparse.  It seems as though many problems are not listed under obvious key words.  However, I have a suggestion for those that are also frustrated by this. Whenever I encounter an interesting problem, I go into the index and look under all of the obvious key words. If the problem is not listed, I add the problem number to the index in that spot.  In all of my copies of these books, I am creating a comprehensive index.  It takes time, but it is almost instructive to do this editing for it makes one more familiar with the book.<br />One other thing:  I haven't found many errors, but I have found a few. Usually they are not apparent until one is working through the little details of a problem.<br />If you are a student in physics, I suggest that you get your hands on these books.	2002-10-07
US	51036377	R20P35ZT9OAI7J	9810218931	189992090	Problems and Solutions on Solid State Physics, Relativity and Miscellaneous Topics (Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Invaluable	All of these books titled &quot;Problems and Solutions on (subject): Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions&quot; are invaluable tools for a physics graduate student, in my experience.<br />It is difficult to find solved problems concering the topics in this text, so it is smaller than some of the others. However, it is still invaluable.<br />Criticism: Sparse index.  You might find yourself adding a lot of notes of your own to the index as well as the contents.<br />If you are a student in physics, I suggest that you get your hands on these books.	2002-10-07
US	51036377	R2PK1RFF2DAWDH	0812524802	688034485	Moving Mars: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A fairly realistic future for the solar system	I can sum up my evaluation in two parts:<br />1) The Fiction<BR>This novel begins with the main character somewhere in the middle of her college career.  You are given the privelege as the reader to witness her growth into a respectable and courageous leader, experiencing all of her mistakes and triumphs along the way. If I were to sum up all of the major events in the story, I would make the story sound too fantastic and unrealistic to be entertaining. However, Bear wrote the story in such a way that you cannot help but ponder his future universe-- intricately constructed around complex political bodies and detailed history--and agree that it is a realistic model.  <br />2) The Science<BR>Most of the actual science and technological fantasy reveals itself towards the 2nd half of the book.  It took me several weeks to read through the first half, reading a few pages here and there.  Then, suddenly, I finished the 2nd half of the book in a single night.  Bear puts an interesting twist on physics by mixing ideas of relativity, string theory, and quantum mechanics in a hand-waving sort of way that guides the reader through the technical points smoothly, never disrupting the flow of the plot.  Bear does not neglect fiction in other scientific fields.  His future is a future where nanotechnology is commonplace, AI computers (called &quot;thinkers&quot;) are necessary members of social groups, and the games of politics are the same as they always have been. For those of you who enjoy pondering the mechanisms behind possible technological constructs of the future, you will not be dissatisfied with this novel.<br />In this age, it seems that science fiction is sometimes a reality.  However, Greg Bear is successful in painting a fairly realistic picture of our very own solar system while preserving the fantasy that makes science fiction such a joy to read.	2002-02-20
US	51036377	R8U429VP3WHZM	9810231334	230695687	Problems and Solutions on Quantum Mechanics: Major American Universities Ph. D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	An excellent handbook on the subject	Sometimes it is very difficult to teach a course in quantum mechanics because there are few problems that have solutions that do not require months of research and numerical methods to solve. I have found that in my own courses on quantum mechanics, I take a lot of notes and I do a lot of homework assignments, but I don't have a whole lot of concrete, well-explained problems and solutions to show for all of the work.  Since I found this book and those that accompany it, however, I have a very good source for problems and their solutions in QM.  These problems are an excellent study aid for the solutions provide insight into the basics of the field.  Strongly recommended.	2002-01-16
US	51036377	R2T8BBEQ68FP2I	9810206267	668546961	PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS ON ELECTROMAGNETISM (Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	One of the most useful books I have ever purchased	I purchased this book to assist me in my graduate courses using Jackson's text. Many of the homework assignments were actually problems taken from qualifying exams at different universites, so this book was very helpful for those problems. As for the Jackson problems, one will be lucky to find any help at all (too bad). I strongly recommend this to anyone who is pursuing a graduate physics degree, not only because it is an excellent handbook for the qualifying exam and homework assignments, but also because it is a very well organized source of information on the subject of Electromagnetism.<br />In addition to this text, I have also purchased the volumes on Quantum Mechanics and Mechanics.  Both are as useful as this text, though I have to say that all of them lack a comprehensive index.  There are also some errors, but they are few and far between.  Also, these books do not provide background on any equations used.  They may say something like \\"With the application of Schrodinger's Equation, this becomes...\\", yet in the same problem there may have been a step where De Moivre's theorem was applied and the authors have neglected to mention it. I suppose this is useful because if one is using the book as a study guide, it would not be instructive unless one was actually working out the problem, so it is up to the reader to uncover the little details.	2002-01-16
US	51036377	R317AX4APJIPR1	0226121097	910628485	University of Chicago Graduate Problems in Physics with Solutions	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	A decent study aid	This book is not as useful to me as the Major American Universities Ph.D. Qualifying Questions and Solutions books, however it still provides adequate examples of problems in most of the major disciplines within the field of physics. The book is organized such that the problems are presented in the first ~half of the book, and the rest of the book is dedicated to detailed solutions.  I would prefer that problems and solutions be printed together on the same page, however this setup is satisfactory.	2002-01-16
US	51036377	R2O6WYP9BGU83W	0837601614	364667598	Volkswagen Sport Tuning: For Street and Competition (Engineering and Performance)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent Handbook VW Fans	I bought this book with the intention of gathering as much information as possible about tuning my Volkswagen.  Since my purchase, this book has become my bible for tuning my vehicle.  This was the perfect bridge to lead me into more detailed and complex procedures behind tuning my Volkswagen.  The book focuses more on the A2 and A1 vehicles, which was a bit of a downer because I drive an A3, but there was still plenty of information presented for the inquiring reader.  The book emphasizes racing, and it is also an excellent source for information concerning the various racing organizations and clubs and their respective rules.  I recommend this book for anyone new to automotive tuning, or for someone who is new to the specific category of tuning Volkswagens.	2002-01-16
US	51036377	RNTR5JLVRUGZC	047130932X	748001938	Classical Electrodynamics Third Edition	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The most comprehensive Physics text I have ever read	There is a reason that so many universities use this text for graudate courses in E&amp;M.  Every single special function that I successfully avoided as an undergrad has shown up within the pages of this text.  Jackson is thorough and more thorough.  Chapters 2 and 3 introduce fundamental techniques that must be mastered in order to understand the rest of the text. Jackson's treatment of separation of variables (while solving Laplace's Equation) does not stop with the introduction of Legendre Polynomials and Spherical Harmonics... he then introduces Bessel Functions, and eventually connects Green's Functions with expansions in spherical and cylindrical coordinate systems. He has a brief section on mixed boundary conditions at the end of chapter 3.  For anyone looking for a very comprehensive text on the subject of electrodynamics, I strongly recommend this book.	2001-11-08
US	51036377	R20X76R0PG5DOS	0486604624	723627628	Introduction to Bessel Functions (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	26	28	N	Y	Some solved problems, little background	My first exposure to Bessel functions was while I was doing an internship and I was attempting to simulate radar imaging on a spherical target.  The gentleman that I was studying under had previously written this code in Matlab, and I was attempting to translate it to C++.  I purchased this book with the hope that it would help me obtain a better knowledge base to tackle this problem.  It didn't.  <br />Later, I took a graduate math course in special functions (Green's Functions, Fourier Transforms, Legendre Polynomials, and Bessel Functions).  Although this course was extremely challenging, I found that the examples given in Bowman's text were perfect for the segment of the course that was devoted to Bessel Functions, and it helped me raise my grade on homeworks.<br />In the end, the book is strictly about Bessel Functions.  There is hardly any background (page 1 begins right away with Bessel Functions of zero order).  The book progresses linearly with the most basic Bessel Functions, a few examples, and eventually ends with Bessel Functions of any real order and a few applications.	2001-10-29
US	51036377	R1Y98BHPKJW7ZA	0131244051	827585281	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent text for the introductory course(s)	I have come to appreciate the style of Griffiths over the past few years. I first had his E&amp;M text as an undergraduate and I was grateful for it's simplicity. I now use the Griffiths E&amp;M text to augment my graduate E&amp;M text by Jackson.  This is why Griffiths is a good author.  He introduces the subject in a clear and concise manner for the purpose of giving the student a solid background. <br />I used Griffith's introductory quantum text when I first came to graduate school. I had not yet taken quantum and so I enrolled in the undergraduate course to give myself sufficient background.  Now I am taking a graduate course using Merzbacher's text, which is also a good text, and Griffith's text is the perfect companion.  <br />The truth is that no textbook in quantum is completely sufficient for providing a solid background on the subject.  The field is relatively new in the realm of physics and I seriously doubt that there are many people on the planet who can say (without their perception clouded by dellusion or arrogance) that they have totally grasped all concepts in the field of quantum physics.  One must evolve into a better physicist, and in understanding this very fundamental principle, one can understand that one must start small and eventually progress to bigger things.  Griffiths has written a text for those who are taking small or medium sized steps who eventually hope to grasp the concepts introduced in more advanced texts.	2001-10-29
US	51036377	R3IO0WO0BTMF2K	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beatifully Written	There are a few science fiction novels that have kept me riveted to my seat, and this is one of them. I like to compare the series to Orson Scott Card's \\"Ender's Game\\", but I secretly like the \\"Hyperion\\" series better (Sorry, Orson). It says in the bio that Simmons is actually known for his horror, but he wrote this series as if he had been writing sci-fi for his entire career. Simmons has created an intricate universe that is so complex that the reader is left wondering how it should be put together. The solution is not clear until the end of the entire series, where Simmons has written one of the best climaxes I have ever read. <br />I am trying not to say anything about the actual story because only Simmons can tell it in the way it should be told, but I strongly suggest this series to true sci-fi fans. I dare myself to say that it is as fundamental as Asimov's \\"Foundation\\" series, as thought provoking as Frederick Pohl's \\"Gateway\\" series, and, as mentioned before, as thoroughly readable as Orson Scott Card's \\"Ender\\" series. <br />This first installment to the series reminded me of Canterbury Tales. Simmons also seems to really like John Keats, and there are many connections to the real life of John Keats woven into this epic tale. \\"Hyperion\\" is devoted almost entirely to background and character development. The second book, \\"The Fall of Hyperion\\" could almost exist independently of the series, and it is marvelously written. Very intense. The third book \\"Endymion\\" is an unexpected change from the story, and at first the reader may be anxious to get back to the previous situation, but I assure you it is worth the wait. The conclusion, \\"The Rise of Endymion\\" is by far the best book. New characters and old characters are united, an incredible fight ensues, and some incredibly hard-core characters are introduced. <br />Simmons is a creative author. There are many concepts that he introduces, some of which are fundamental to the storyline (like \\"farcasters\\"... portals that punch holes through space-time linking distant points in space), and others that are merely mentioned for dramatic effect (like combat suits that dissipate heat from laser shots through superconducting circuitry).<br />For any story, there must be conflict. Simmons creates three (3) incredibly complex character sets: The Hegemony of Man (humanity, in all of its selfish glory), The TechnoCore (a virtual \\"datumplane\\" of highly evolved AI), and the Ousters (space-inhabiting humans, evolved and adjusted to low-g environments, among other things), all of whom are in battle with one another. This first book introduces the reader to these complex characters, though the rest of the story awaits in the remaining 3 books (which are incredible, by the way).<br />On a final note, The Shrike is the coolest character ever created in a novel. The purpose of the Shrike will escape you for the first few books, but as more is learned, the impressive duties of the Shrike will be revealed. I am the Shrike's biggest fan.<br />A+++	2001-01-03
US	51036377	R332I2IWDVV5UN	0553572946	629359173	Endymion (Hyperion)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The 3rd installment to an awesome series	I am now reading the entire \\"Hyperion\\" series for a second time. When I first read the series, I came to this 3rd book (Endymion) and found myself bored and annoyed. Within 100 pages or so, however, I was interested again.<br />The second time through, the role of this 3rd book seems much more essential than it did when I first encountered it. It begins some 250 years after the end of the 2nd book (The Fall of Hyperion) and introduces a new character, Raul Endymion, who is a thuggish though sensitive young man telling a story about how he met a young girl named Aenea.  The importance of Aenea is cloudy at first, and it will make more sense by the 4th book. The important thing about this book is that it introduces the reader to a future where the Catholic Church, through military might and incredible technology, has once again gained power over the masses. One might make analogies to the power of the church during the Crusades and the peak of the Inquisition. The church has gained its power with the help of the cruciform, the parasitic cross-shaped \\"thing\\" that Father Paul Dure spoke about in the first and second books. The magic of the cruciform is that it offers its host the gift of immortality, and with the help of church technology, one can endure death and rebirth countless times with little to know long-term side effects.<br />The reader learns most about the cruciform through the eyes of Father Captain de Soya, a gentle captain in the military fleet (called the Pax) of the Catholic Church. De Soya's mission is to chase and capture Aenea, and Raul is there to be her gaurdian. <br />One final note. In the first two books, the enemy of humanity was the TechnoCore. In the final two books, it would be innacurate to say that this is no longer the case.	2001-01-03
US	51036377	R1BNE4Q6C9UW3Q	0553288202	47311872	The Fall of Hyperion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Number 2 of the best series ever written	This second book of the Hyperion series is darker and full of much more action than the first. The first novel is almost entirely devoted to intense character development, and it is the first book that makes the second so incredible. Once the character foundations are laid, the second book, \\"The Fall of Hyperion\\", delivers page after page of building conflict.  For those of you who enjoy lots of action in a sci-fi novel, this second book in the series delivers.  It isn't merely some shoot-'em-up novel, it is the next dark phase in the evolution of a future universe that is as fascinating as it is frightening. <br />Complex relationships between character sets are laid out in the second book. The TechnoCore, the collective of hyper-evolved and diversified AIs, is beginning to reveal its role in the destiny of mankind. As The Hegemony of Man finds itself in the middle of a conflict with its space-born brethern (the Ousters), the TechnoCore has been an uneasy ally during the initial battles. Soon, however, the clever tactics of the Ousters begin to overwhelm the Hegemony, and the TechnoCore suspiciously offers no explanation or support.<br />The planet of Hyperion, its mysterious Time Tombs and its most terrifying resident, the Shrike, is the only undefined variable in this entire galactic war. All parties involved fear the planet and its unknown influence, and all parties fight for it. A galactic-wide battle ensues.<br />The creative innovations set forth by Simmons will awe you.  The first pages of this second book act in the same fashion that fishing bait entices unsuspecting aquatic creatures. You will sit down to read a few pages, and then you will consume the entire book within days.<br />Finally, if you have read my review on the first book, Hyperion, I can only reinforce my declaration that I am the Shrike's biggest fan.	2001-01-03
US	51036377	R39OR6GP057W8U	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Just look at the book... nothing else	Its a shame that this book has so much stigma associated with it, due to the movie that was adapted from it as well as Hubbard's personal belief system.     My advice to you is that if you would like to read an entertaining sci-fi opera, pick up this book and read it. Its better than a lot of [stuff] you'll find on the bookshelves...Its not Asimov's \\"Foundation\\" (few books are), but it is certainly entertaining.    Give it a read and see what you think.    Edit: 10/23/2006    Re-reading my previous review shows me that I wasn't being too helpful. The basis of the book is that far-future humanity (~year 3000 or thereabouts) has lost its way, and Earth is now nothing more than a mining outpost for another civilization. Hubbard wrote this book with a sense of parody. He wanted to write a good ol' \\"go humanity kick some rear\\" sci-fi novel, and in true 1982 fashion, he pulled it off (other reviewers often forget the context of this novel - there was a limited science fiction reader base in 1982 mainstream culture, and therefore this book was never written for the box office). The first sentence on the opening page is a real hook \\"Man... is an endangered species.\\"    The disgruntled antagonist, Terl, is a security officer for a mining outpost on Earth (presumably somewhere near what was once Denver, CO). He's like any other person who has to answer to an idiot boss and is forced to travel for work - he's irritable, negative, and unhappy. (This is one of the many positives for this book. At a time when many sci-fi novels had some nameless monster alien enemy, Hubbard created a personified alien antagonist with human-like emotion and personality). Terl has many simple ambitions including the pursuit of females, the consumption of alcohol, and most importantly, the pursuit of wealth.     Terl and the protagonist, Jonnie Goodboy Tyler, meet eachother when Jonnie is out on his horse, exploring previously-unexplored land. Terl rounds him up more out of boredom than anything else, but eventually learns that Jonnie has a knack for learning. At first caging Jonnnie like and animal and harassing him through the bars, Terl soon grows bored of abusing his new toy. He slowly realizes, through his torturing, that Jonnie is an adaptive creature. After teaching him a few tricks, Terl develops the ambitious plan to teach Jonnie to perform simple tasks that make his own work easier. Jonnie, on the other hand, is an introspective person with a good head on his shoulders, and he uses the knowledge that Terl gives him to the best of his ability.    The book is nearly split in two. Terl wove a plan together to get Jonnie to mine previously untouched gold veins and smuggle them into Terl's possession. The plan falls through, however. After Jonnie outsmarts Terl enough to escape from him, he manages to use the alien equipment at his disposal to explore the entire planet Earth. He begins to assemble a picture of Earth's history, and is sad to learn that humanity was once technologically advanced and powerful. By uniting with other clever humans in multiple locations (remnants from long-dead countries) Jonnie stages a rebellion. The last quarter of the book is a battle between two civilizations, not just Terl and Jonnie.     Read through the previous paragraphs again, and keep the following word in mind: context. Forget that you know that the worst movie in history was adapted (and \\"adapted\\" is the key word here) from this story, forget that L. Ron Hubbard has something to do with the ill-defined something-or-other called scientology, and look at it for what it is. It's a big, action-filled science fiction novel written in 1982. If you had read it (like me) before you knew all these other things, you might actually like it. At the time that I read it, it was one of the few books that had the elements I like in a sci-fi novel: interesting technology, good action, interesting characters, and a different perspective on the genre.	2000-08-07
US	51036377	R1XZ0NNIIAAMI8	0030223172	396716381	Analytical Mechanics (Saunders Golden Sunburst Series)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Advanced	I took a course in Analytical Mechanics my junior year and I found this book to be very advanced. If you touch up on your linear algebra, differential equations, and know a few tricks with Taylor series expansions  and a few trig identitities, you should be armed with a decent arsenal for  the exercises in this book.  Exercises take a lot of time and energy, and  examples provide little help. There are also supplementary sections which  solve problems using Mathcad and Mathematica.  These are helpful, but only  if you've used the software before.  The text wastes no time in teaching  you syntax. Be prepared to expend extra energy re-reading sections of this  book.  It sometimes lacks clarity.	2000-02-22
US	51036377	R1FCQUW6PGXKQZ	3540585737	780615859	Solid-State Physics: An Introduction to Principles of Materials Science	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Limited audience	I used this book in a course which was supposed to be an introduction to solid state. Know some basic ideas in crystal structure, quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics, advanced and partial differential equations and  Fourier anlysis and then you'll begin to be ready to understand this text.   Kittel's Solid State text is slightly more helpful (but only slightly). The  book is completely devoid of examples, yet there are sections at the end of  each chapter involving current applications and experiments in condensed  matter physics and materials science. Exercises require a leap of  understanding from the contents of the chapter before them.  Some  experience with a computer language may also be necessary. I wouldn't  recommend this book for most undergrads.	2000-02-22
US	51036377	R327VKC5HDTG9H	0471828726	100158072	Modern Physics	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Excellent intro to Modern Physics	This is one of my favorite books left over from my undergraduate career. It is perfect for sophomore/junior level physics students who have completed intro courses and are ready to take a peek at something a little  more advanced and a little more interesting.  The student will need a  little bit of differential equations and plenty of calculus to do well with  this text.  The chapter on Solid State Physics is very well done, with  excellent descriptions of Bose and Fermi statistics, which should be  adequate preparation for a more advanced course in statistical mechanics.   The chapter involving the Schrodinger Equation is elementary, but it is  unecessary to confuse a student with Quantum Mechanics at this level. A  well-rounded book which makes a well-rounded student.	2000-02-22
US	51036377	R2XCCMXFUA4PDG	0201878798	598778305	Introductory Quantum Mechanics (3rd Edition)	Books	3	65	76	N	N	Not For Everyone!	This book is incredibly comprehensive, but I wouldn't recommend it for the typical undergrad.  In my experience with the book, I found it annoyingly elitist, like many physics texts.  There are plenty of \\"...the rest is  left as an exercise\\" and \\"the good student will notice...\\"  comments scattered throughout the book. I would prefer a text with a focus  that is not so narrowly centered on physics students. For those of you who  are looking for a book on Quantum Mechanics to teach to a fair  cross-section of undergraduates (i.e. chemistry students, mathemeticians,  and engineers), don't get this book.  For example, I was in the class with  a friend of mine who is a mechanical engineer (and a good student), who  wished to pursue graduate work in nuclear engineering.  This book nearly  scared him away. Griffiths writes a better text for those of us who can  admit that we prefer background, examples, applications, and explicit  derivation in a text.<br /><br />Edit: 12/2004 - Again I find that with the passage of time wisdom and experience gives one perspective. Ironically, even though I was initially turned off by this book, I often use it as a reference. It is an excellent text to accompany both Griffiths' intro book and Merzbacher.  Not a great text for a course, but then again.... what quantum text *is* a good book for a quantum course?	2000-02-22
US	51036377	RTLJCM0KHBQDY	0471253820	533589112	Fundamentals of Physics	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Excellent Undergrad Text	I used this book for 3 quarters of introductory physics.  The book is well written, there are plenty of examples, and the actual written sections are as helpful as the examples (a true rarity in textbooks).  This book is used  for introductory physics courses at both Ohio University and Ohio State  University. Ohio U has a network called CAPA which takes problems from this  text, changes the numbers pseudo-randomly for each student, and checks  their answers as they enter them over the web.  The book's versitality  allows for such a system to be effective. The book is written and designed  for larger classes which contain future engineers, chemists, biologists,  computer scientists, mathematicians, physicists, and pre-med students.  It  has the ability to be used as a weed-out text or as an actual learning tool  (at the discretion of the university). All in all a satisfactory text. (By  the way, these three guys did a similar book with Krane which is very good  as well).    Edit: December of 2004. Little did I know that when I wrote that initial review I would be using this text to teach courses as a TA in graduate school.  Looking back, I've come to respect this text quite a lot. It is very well organized and from an instruction standpoint, it is very very well written.  In the few quarters that I taught, I came to really appreciate the text for what it was: an introductory text.  It is designed for a wide audience of people and is therefore ineffective for some audiences, but I'd recommend it to any instructor because of its universal quality.	2000-02-22
US	51036377	R1ZQRN9SQGC9YT	013805326X	31934825	Introduction to Electrodynamics (3rd Edition)	Books	5	152	159	N	Y	Great Book for Junior/Senior Undergrad Course	(Edit: 3/10/07)    -- I have visited this review three times now. I wrote it as an undergraduate, edited as a graduate student, and now I'm editing it again as a professional with a little more experience. After reading through this review I fear that an instructor, searching Amazon for a text for the upcoming academic year, might think that I am recommending Jackson over Griffiths for an undergraduate course.  Heck no. Griffiths is the best book you will find on the subject for an undergraduate junior/senior level textbook. It is a must have text for students new to the field, as it is well written, quite readable, and worth keeping. The text speaks to the student, not the instructor. While you, as the instructor, might know that there is a lot more to the field than is covered in this text, you must set that aside and realize that this book is the best for your students who are still learning. This book is a foundation that will give them the experience and confidence to eventually tackle more difficult texts like Jackson (though I still wonder if anyone could possibly master that text). My original review follows. --    I orignially wrote a review for this book as an undergraduate.  In that review, I credited Griffiths with a knack for presenting information in a clever and entertaining way.  I still believe this is true.  At the time, I also said that Griffiths included precise and complete examples.  Looking back, I no longer believe this is true.      When I first started using this book, I was under the impression that Griffiths had discovered a method in the way of writing textbooks that was totally superior to all other authors of similar background.  Now, after several years of using Griffiths as a reference, I find that his books serve as a wonderful resource for refreshing one's memory, however they lack a certain comprehensive quality that would make them a solid reference text.  I am now a student of John David Jackson's text, that legendary text withthe impossible exercises (Classical Electrodynamics), and the astounding thoroughness of his book dwarfs the Griffiths E&M text by comparison.  Valuable information in the Griffiths text is often left as an exercise. This is very frustrating when one is searching for solutions to much more advanced problems.  I contacted Dr. Griffiths and asked him if it would be possible for me to obtain a solutions manual to both his E&M and his Quantum texts, but he informed me that I could not obtain these manuals unless I was an instructor at the insistence of the publisher (Prentice Hall).  This is unfortunate. However, it is remarkable that Griffiths responded to my email. I think this is a testament to his character - he wants to help his readers, and this is evident in his textbooks.    All in all, the text is a fantastic book for the undergraduate, and a helpful resource for the graduate student.  The book is a valuable resource for the intermediate or slightly advanced undergraduate physics student, and I encourage instructors at the undergraduate level to use the Griffiths text. For the physics student, the first exposure to E&M should come from Halliday and Resnick, the second should be Griffiths, and there really should be an intermediate step before they see Jackson, but no one has written that book yet.	2000-02-22
