US	51031013	R1LIX6UP6CS89U	0312869711	858915453	Spirits in the Wires: A Novel of Myth and Magic - On the Streets and On the Net (Newford)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Vintage de Lint in Cyberspace	There's nothing in this book to really surprise longstanding fans of Charles de Lint.  His regular stable of characters, slightly supplemented, forms the core of the narrative, and there's myth and magic going on all around.  Though the story doesn't entirely live up to its promise in the end, the journey is an entertaining read, good for fans, and not a bad introduction for new readers.<br /><br />The theme, as the title suggests, is magic in the electronic world.  Saskia Madding was born on the Internet and now wonders if she's even real.  Her friend Christiana Tree (Ms. Tree) was born of the parts of Christy Riddell's psyche he didn't want, though she's already worked through her identity crisis.  When they decide to explore Saskia's origins, they inadvertently trip a spirit that lives in a popular website, sucking Saskia and hundreds of computer users into an electronic netherworld.  And of course, de Lint's company of heroes has to go find them.<br /><br />By suggesting there's a magical link between the otherworld and cyberspace, de Lint opens up a wonderful idea for a writer of his skills to explore.  Sadly, he wimps out in the end, making the magic of cyberspace similar to magic everywhere else in his works.  But his characters' struggle along the way, the discoveries they make, the victories they acheive, is eminently readable.<br /><br />Like much of de Lint's work, there are a lot of backward references to other pieces he's written in the Newford venue.  you don't need to know what they all mean to understand the novel, but it sure helps.<br /><br />Though I enjoyed this book, I don't recommend it for newbies to this author.  Start with a short story collection or with \\"The Onion Girl\\" if you want to be initiated.  But for fantasy fans in general, and de Lint fans in particular, this is a strong work worth reading, and it opens new doors for the characters in future works.  Hang onto it, you'll probably want to reread it in the near future too.	2005-01-07
US	51031013	RMS121B4RAUS4	0765303817	44580626	The Onion Girl (Newford)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Jilly's Story	For long-term fans of Charles de Lint's popular Newford novels, the central character of Jilly Coppercorn is engaging but enigmatic.  So now she gets her own novel.  It's a good story, well-written, compelling, and easy to read while giving you plenty to think about after you close the covers.  So why is there some dissatisfaction nagging at me?<br /><br />Don't get me wrong.  It's a great book, about a great character in great situations.  I recommend it to fans and neophytes.  But there's a little bit of a something...<br /><br />Jilly is struck down in a hit-and-run accident, leaving the vivacious painter bedridded and half-crippled.  And that's on the first page.  The story unfolds both forward and backward, letting us in on backstory we've never been privy to before, both on the character and the universe.  Some characters are held in reserve: characters spotlighted in this book are given short shrift in the next novel, \\"Spirits in the Wires,\\" and vice versa.  But this story focuses on the characters who color every de Lint book without often getting their own showcase.<br /><br />The theme running through this book is how awful incest and childhood sexual abuse are.  I know this and agree wholeheartedly, but the book goes over the theme time and again, like a wound the author can't stop handling.  In this book, a single abusive character is the motivation behind nearly everything that happens both to Jilly and her personal antagonist over the course of decades.  Human beings are deeper and more complex than this.  A writer of de Lint's skill owes his characters more than he's willing to give them.<br /><br />And I'm also bothered by one fact.  If the dates de Lint gives are accurate, the principals in the book must all be pushing fifty, yet many are still looking for that one true love in their lives.  Shouldn't there come a point when the characters graduate from that sort of rootlessness to a more mature identity?  The characters act like they are in their early thirties, when this emotional meandering would be exactly appropriate, yet the dates add as much as two decades to their ages.  It's time for the characters to settle down with one person and move on to the next identity crisis, which a writer of de Lint's ability should be able to execute adroitly.<br /><br />That said, the character conflicts are engaging, the plot moves foreward at a good pace that varies from cautious to lickety-split very effectively, and the payoff does feel earned.  This book is good both as an introduction to Newford and an extension for established fans.  So much is so deeply linked that any synopsis would give away key facts, so let's put it this way: the characters who are central to Newford go through meaningful personal changes in this book that will effect future novels.<br /><br />Highly recommended, despite the two problems mentioned above, this book expands on the ambiance that is Newford without destroying the magic and mystery.  It isn't even necessary to have read the other Newford books to get what's going on.  Subtle and enjoyable, this is a fantasy book for a grand audience and fantasy fans alike to savor and reread.their early thirties, when this emotional meandering would be exactly appropriate, yet the dates add as much as two decades to their ages.  It's time for the characters to settle down with one person and move on to the next identity crisis, which a writer of de Lint's ability should be able to execute adroitly. <br /> <br />That said, the character conflicts are engaging, the plot moves foreward at a good pace that varies from cautious to lickety-split very effectively, and the payoff does feel earned.  This book is good both as an introduction to Newford and an extension for established fans.  So much is so deeply linked that any synopsis would give away key facts, so let's put it this way: the characters who are central to Newford go through meaningful personal changes in this book that will effect future novels. <br /> <br />Highly recommended, despite the two problems mentioned above, this book expands on the ambiance that is Newford without destroying the magic and mystery.  It isn't even necessary to have read the other Newford books to get what's going on.  Subtle and enjoyable, this is a fantasy book for a grand audience and fantasy fans alike to savor and reread.	2005-01-07
US	51031013	R2BYM5FIQDJYP8	0312873999	228368013	Mulengro	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Gypsy Catharsis	This book stands out from most of de Lint's canon of work by being mainly a horror novel.  Okay, dark fantasy really, but it scares you badly and reminds you why you love being alive, because it could disappear so quickly.<br /><br />This book, first released in 1985, predates Newford, but one could imagine it fitting in with that setting.  When Ottawa's close-knit Gypsy community begins dying violently, several independent story threads originate, convering on a cabin in the woods where an apocalyptic showdown determines whether the punishments of the Third Reich continue into the contemporary world.<br /><br />Briggs and Sandler, Ottawa municipal police, want to bring the killer to justice.  Janfri la Yayal, a Gypsy fiddler, wants to clear his name.  Ola Pifer knows she's an imminent target.  Jeff Owen, Dr. Rainbow, and Yojo la Kore want to stand up for the people they love.  And the mysterious Mulengro wants to purge his people.<br /><br />This reads like something Stephen King might have written back before his work became tiresome and repetetive.  The further along you get, the harder it becomes to put the book down.  Nothing feels extraneous, nothing feels like a misfire.  This is a prime book for people who have never touched fantasy, horror, or Charles de Lint in their lives.<br /><br />The substantial Gypsy content is key to the story.  Many people demand accuracy in this sort of thing, but the Gypsies are so notoriously secretive that fact-checking isn't an issue.  What matters is this: I can imagine these characters, in these situations, performing exactly these actions.<br /><br />It's amazing, with the slim amount of narrative and the beautifully cinematic characters and situations, that this hasn't been adapted before now.  Perhaps soon.  Modern technology could turn this into the most beautiful dark fantasy film in history, no problem.<br /><br />Easily readable and worth a second look, this book is one that will become a treasured part of your library in short order.your library in short order.	2005-01-07
US	51031013	R2GGAN0484ETU3	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Introduction	A beautiful woman walks into the office of a washed-up private dick and waves money in his face.  He takes the case.  You've read this before, of course you have.  But then the dick takes the dame into hell.<br />There's nothing really groundbreaking in this short novel by Simon R. Green.  It's not supposed to be revolutionary; it's supposed to be fun.  With its mix of urban fantasy, science fiction, and horror, it's hip weekend reading, something to take to the beach.<br />This is an introductory volume to a series, and as such it spends a lot of effort introducing the reader to the setting and to recurring characters.  It's full of promise for upcoming volumes, even if this one feels strained.  Maybe our hero, John Taylor, spits out a lot of explanatory monologues, some of them two pages too long.  Maybe some of the actions he takes don't contribute to this book in particular.  It's setting the reader up for a delayed payoff.  Just enjoy it--it's all in good fun.	2004-07-03
US	51031013	R2FZ22NUMBOD5C	0441011136	946983828	Agents of Light and Darkness (Nightside, Book 2)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Spotty Follow-Up	Where the previous volume of this series felt like a great introduction, this book feels leaden.  Half the time, the author feels like he's still setting up the setting, but nearly every character or setting he introduces is destroyed right away.  In the end, only Jessica Sorrow remains of the new characters introduced to return in the future.<br />Author Simon R. Green hopscotches from one encounter to another--a psychic boy band, a dancer who lives by stealing vitality from the undead, a gun that works by undoing God's creation--only to have the lead prove fruitless and the characters in question be destroyed.  This feels less like a mission or a quest than a scavanger hunt at a spastic child's birthday party.<br />Green has a wonderful setting in the Nightside, and compelling, sympathetic characters in John Taylor and Suzie Shooter.  Here's hoping that, in future installments, he rambles less and narrates more.	2004-07-03
US	51031013	R12D93AW5WYJ1Q	0415902630	280492349	Don't Bet on the Prince: Contemporary Feminist Fairy Tales in North America and England	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Front of the Next Wave	This book is divided into three parts.  The first, \\"Feminist Fairy Tales for Young (and Old) Readers,\\" is the selection of stories you want to read aloud to your daughter or son.  These stories have sophisticated subjects and good language, but no lengthy exposition of narrative that bogs down a reading out loud.  Most set up admirable gender roles, but some, such as \\"Snow White,\\" are explicitly political, and can help you raise good activists.<br />The second section, \\"Feminist Fairy Tales for Old (and Young) Readers,\\" is comprised of more structurally complex stories that invite a silent reader to take  time and try to swallow them.  Though intended for adult readers, literate children can follow them, and for the most part should be encouraged to do so early and often.  Sex roles and social station dominate these stories, but we get glimpses of how these issues are impacted by war, work, and more.<br />The third section, \\"Feminist Literary Criticism,\\" is pretty slow-moving.  Most of us are already familiar with the idea that fairy tales have detrimental effects on our children, especially our daughters, and while we may be briefly interested in a scholarly explanation of why this is so, the common reader won't get as much good out of this part as the previous two.<br />Educator, writer, and scholar Jack Zipes has compiled here an excellent antidote to the stultifying fairy tales that molded the minds of most of us when we were young.  Zipes is the editor of several thematic books of fairy tales, and this is neither the least nor the last.  Whether you approach this work as a parent, a reader, or a scholar, this book is highly rewarding.	2004-06-20
US	51031013	R19P8VERBAOFOP	1559361166	871510291	Stage Writers Handbook: A Complete Business Guide for Playwrights, Composers, Lyricists and Librettists	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Dated But Valuable	This book is absolutely drop-dead necessary for playwrights who intend to work in the field--and for other writers, too.  It includes scads of information you'll never get in any MFA program, like how to negotiate a good contract, how to decipher copyright law, how to divide billing fairly, and more.  This is information you need, and information colleges and universities unfortunately don't get around to teaching.<br />This book is primarily focused on U.S. artistic business and law.  If you live in another country, parts of this book will be useful to you, but you'll need to do research as to your country's law and business conventions.  At least if you have this book, you'll have an idea what it is you're seeking.<br />Author Dana Singer published this book in 1997, and at that late date, it's odd that she didn't include more on using the internet in conducting your playwriting business.  There are a lot of useful forms, organizations, and contacts provided in this book, but you'll need to Google them if you want to use the 'net for them.  If a second edition ever comes out, hopefully there will be more weblinks, at least for the U.S. Copyright Office if nothing else.<br />Your knowledge of the points in this book can make or break your playwriting career.  Though dated and synoptic, it's the most thorough-going collection of information on the topic I've yet seen.  Read it, memorize it, and keep it on your desk.  You never know, right?	2004-06-01
US	51031013	R29ES735079RRP	1400030072	804117904	Deus Irae: A Novel	Books	5	28	30	N	N	What Is Left To Believe	This book mines one of the most fertile areas of post-apocalyptic science fiction, the conflict of faith.  What do people believe in when it looks like God has turned his back on the world?  This book is perhaps the best possible flip side to Walter M. Miller, Jr's \\"A Canticle for Leibowitz.\\"<br />In a world devastated by a war that has evidently been more than nuclear, Tibor McMasters is an artist for the Servants of Wrath, who worship the creator of the bomb.  Pete Sands is an acolyte of the waning Christian church.  These strange friends wind up on a search for Carleton Leuftufel, the man who ordered the bomb, so that he can be painted and adored as the Deus Irae, the man who remade the world.<br />This brief book appears to have been written by Dick from sketches by Zelazny.  These two writers, among the most thoughtful in science fiction, have created a forgotten classic of Twentieth Century literature.  An acid trip view of a world twisted and distorted, you are left at the end to decipher what it means.  How can we believe in a good god in a bad world?  But how can we believe in a bad god and survive?  What god suffices?  Or is that a doomed thought?<br />There are no answers.  Like \\"The Matrix\\" or \\"Leviathan,\\" we are left with important questions and our own resources.  This is hard.  Though this is not the greatest philosophical science fiction novel ever written, it's right up there, and it's not to be undertaken lightly.<br />Though this book, like most SF from its time, has become dated, it remains eminently readable and beautifully constructed.  We can only mourn that these two great minds are gone now, and enjoy this great meeting of their intellects.  Highly recommended.	2004-06-01
US	51031013	R28XZP0XZRAWIL	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	3	26	44	N	N	OTBE	Science fiction is a chancy field to write in.  You speculate on how things are going to develop in the near future, and you gamble on factors beyond comprehension.  And sometimes your story is OTBE--OverTaken By Events.  That's exactly what happened to this deserved classic.  And now it's become old hat.<br />When it was new, it provided a new view of costumed superheroes.  With their reliance on law and order, but their willingness to disregard the legitimate establishment in pursuit of their goals, they are deeply conflicted people.  But Superman and Spider-Man had disregarded this reality up to that point.  Alan Moore was the first person to investigate the flawed identities of comic-book heroes in light of how human beings relate in the real world.<br />Superheroes are seen as rapists, serial killers, men and women with vendettas.  Or they're would-be actors looking to boost their profile.  Old grudges and doubts fester under the surface for decades, unable to find release and healing.  They suffer sexual dysfunction which affects their crime-fighting techniques.  And their defense of the old order against reformers and non-conformists leads to the stifling of honest forward growth.<br />Now that Wolverine and Wonder Woman have to deal with existential dramas growing out of their vocations, this attitude isn't groundbreaking.  A reader coming to this story from contemporary comic books will find the points, which had to be examined in detail when they were new and revolutionary, to be belabored now that they're commonplace.<br />There is supplementary prose material at the back of each chapter.  Some of this is interesting, such as the attempted overview of the history of organized superhero behavior.  Others, such as the lengthy history of comic books (supplementing a rather ho-hum pirate comic subplot), are easy to skip.<br />This comic series was groundbreaking when it came out, and it's worth reading for that.  If you want to know how comics shifted from the flat-colored hero worship of the past to the dark, conflicted material of today, this is the turning point.  No other work has been as influential in the art of comics.  But if you're looking for timeless art or new insights into human nature, this book is no longer your starting point.	2004-05-17
US	51031013	ROYKMHASY4HYR	0451459733	288678540	Choice of the Cat: Book Two of the Vampire Earth	Books	5	0	1	N	N	That Rare Thing in Science Fiction: a Strong Sequel	Sequels are a tricky beast: they are required to play by the rules of the original book, but not tell the same story.  They need to tell a strong story that neither overpowers nor is dwarfed by the original.  It takes a strong writer with a sharp narrative to be able to make that leap.  With this book, E.E. Knight has done just that.  We have a natural continuation of the story in the first volume, &quot;Way of the Wolf,&quot; without retreading the same story or trivializing what happened previously.  The principal character, David Valentine, explores more of the world that was hinted at before.  We are introduced to new characters, new secrets, and new glimpses of places in the world.<br />This volume has two primary advantages over the previous book.  First, this book isn't introducing us to a world, and doesn't need to spend half its length on exposition.  Though this book is fully fifty pages shorter than the last one, there is more actual story and less time spent explaining things.  Though there is a little bit of flashback to help explain the gap between the previous book and this one, it's very brief.  For the most part, the author trusts you to jump into the story quickly, and makes it easy for you to do so.<br />Second, where the first book was primarily a tale of derring-do, this book follows the quest pattern famous in fantasy.  Specifically, it follows the quest pattern in &quot;Lord of the Rings.&quot;  When Valentine is preparing to help defend the Eagles' Wings Brand, it's impossible to miss the parallels to the defense of Helm's Deep.  The liberation of Omaha reflects the seige of Minas Tirith without slavishly mimicing it.  Knight knows a good pattern when he sees it, and knows how to imitate.  Thankfully, in imitating Tolkein, Knight doesn't try to ramrod the story into that pattern.  There is nothing extraneous in the story to force Valentine into the Frodo role; everything follows appropriately.  Only once at the very end, when the principal villain lapses into the Talking Killer mode, does the story lag, and even that lag is small enough to be more than outweighed by the remainder of the book.<br />Where &quot;Way of the Wolf&quot; stuck to the Mississippi River Valley, this story centers on the Great Plains.  The greatest part of the story is set in Nebraska, where I've lived for twelve years, and I caught some geographical errors.  Knight refers to the Sandhills, which dominate northern Nebraska, as the Sand Dunes; that term is seldom used except by geologists.  He speaks of a train slowing to crest a hill east of Ogallala; the town of Ogallala is set in a flat river valley, much favored by railroad builders for its lack of steep grades.  The characters cross the remains of the Kingsley Dam, which apparently is badly deteriorated, and see anglers fishing in the waters; without the dam, there's nowhere in that area with enough water to breed fish to support sport fishing.<br />But this is niggling and most readers will flatly miss this.  And in a wide-ranging story like this, doing that kind of research would be costly and time consuming.  It's better that Knight spent his time writing the story, which is gripping to fans of fantasy, SF, and supernatural horror.  This book is a self-contained story, an excellent sequel and a good bridge to the next volume.  Fans who have waited for this book to come out will be well-rewarded, and readers coming to the story may be a little lost but will find plenty to like.<br />(Note--check out the author's website.  There's interesting supplementary material that fans will enjoy, much of which may serve as lead-in to future volumes of this series.  &lt;[...]	2004-05-17
US	51031013	R9HUZI95G7YE7	0446531251	451794091	In His Image: Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Interesting Conglomeration	On the one hand, this book has a lot of flaws.  I found it very hard to read, and had to take frequent breaks to get back with the game.  But I read it, and I'm going to buy the next book.  I don't understand that contradiction any more than you do.<br />The dialogue is written as though the author was still learning the craft.  He has a tendency to bundle together punctuation marks as though he were writing a comic book script (?!).  This People speak in well-wrought complete sentences, and at key moments, every line is heavy with portent.  Dialogue-heavy sections are kind of hard to get through.<br />The narrative hopscotches over long periods of time.  Chapter headings will begin with &quot;Eight Years Later,&quot; like the title card in a Flash Gordon serial.  And a lot of narrative is wrapped in long character monologues, the kind of speech science fiction editors deride as &quot;Well, You See, Timmy...&quot;<br />Author James BeauSeigneur knows a lot of facts regarding the Bible, exigetical research, Jewish national history, and scientific research regarding holy relics.  He throws these facts in, but feels the need to footnote everything, as though this were his doctoral thesis.  Unless BeauSeigneur doesn't trust his audience, why would he pepper his novel with source notes?  There are sixty-six footnotes in the book, including no less than two that simply urge readers not to kill the messenger.<br />If this book weren't carried forward by the idea of a living clone of Jesus Christ from the Shroud of Turin, I doubt any respectable publisher would have touched it.  Yet it IS about that idea.  And the consideration is so thoroughly in keeping with contemporary social and political impetus that we can imagine a cloned Jesus might indeed behave in the way depicted if he came along in this day and age (though with more organic dialogue).<br />The viewpoint character is Decker Hawthorne, a sometime journalist turned political operative, who through a bizarre quirkof events comes to be the warden of Christopher Goodman, who was cloned from biological traces left on the Shroud of Turin.  The plot is Gordian in its convolutions, and there's a strong sense that it's setting up for the next book rather than telling its own story.  Yet the setup is complex enough that, if you take enough aspirin breaks, it will hold your attention just fine.<br />The book is somehow awful, yet it's compelling enough that I intend to buy the next book.  I don't understand.  Neither will you, but you'll read this one and go on to the next as well.	2004-04-29
US	51031013	ROWB2WEQNPBHR	0321117956	247775076	Writing Fiction (6th Edition)	Books	4	185	193	N	N	Stop Studying, Start Writing	The steep price of this book gives away that it's a college textbook, not a book for the general reader.  There are books for the novice out there that answer the same questions this book but cost you a lot less.  But this really is better than most books.<br />Rather than trying to address itself to writing globally or simply act as boosterism to get you busy, this book actually gets into the nuts and bolts of the writing craft.  It answers questions about constructing narrative fiction that even experienced writers have from time to time.  There's no fiddling business about comma use--there are other books for that--but for narrative structure, beginnings and ends, building tension, and more, this is your book.<br />Many books of this type are laden with platitudes and aphorisms about writing.  They're pretty, but they don't really help you get going.  What really sets this book apart is that, after it gives you your standards and rules, it gives you excerpts from other writers' fiction to demonstrate how it works in the real world of published fiction.  Now that's truly useful.<br />All that said, it suffers from the same problem that afflicts all fiction-writing books: it can't really teach you how to write.  It's okay to have this book at hand to answer your questions, give you tutorials, and work on fine-tuning, but the only way you'll really get good at writing is to stop studying books and start writing like you mean it.<br />This book is good within the limitations that surround all fiction-writing books.  To really succeed, you need to just knuckle down and write, but as you're doing that, this is the book to have within reach.  Now stop reading my stupid review and start writing your fiction!	2004-03-16
US	51031013	R3LR288SE7R5LY	039332124X	685754728	Making Shapely Fiction	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Useful but Spotty	The first part of this book feels at times more like criticism of story types than a writing manual.  It details how stories have historically been structured and what advantages and disadvantages there are in each shape.  Trying to grasp the Onion or the Visitation makes a good academic exercise, but it doesn't really get into the application of the relevant concepts.<br />The second and third parts are where this book gets useful.  The second part is made up of essays on the craft--one on what it means to write what you know (a more inclusive idea than you may have realized) and one on what tragic pitfalls to avoid.  Beware, young writer, for many others have fallen in these pits before you, and many more will follow.<br />The third part is a thorough glossary of writing terms, defined so a layman or a young author can grasp them without struggle.  This is probably the most useful part of the book.  When your editor, writing workshop, or trusted reviewer starts trying to define the strengths of weaknesses of your writing, you can consult this glossary to find out exactly what is being said.  And when you're called upon to lend a hand to your fellow writers, this glossary will be your arsenal of concepts to communicate your meaning.<br />Advanced or experienced writers may not find much in this book that they haven't encountered already.  However, young writers who haven't published their first full book will be able to mine this for ideas, communication, and a way to move forward in their writing.	2004-02-02
US	51031013	R2U1CCATFDB1MC	1581150881	87497550	Producing Your Own Showcase	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Useful For A While	The trait that makes this book most useful is also the trait that will be its ultimate undoing.  Where many books on the business of theatre try to be useful over the passage of time, this book aims to be useful right now.  And because of that, there's no telling how useful it'll be a year from now.<br />There are a lot of facts and figures in this book.  It really tries to establish what the budget for your rough showcase production is going to be, and you'll need to figure inflation into that after this long.  There are also addresses and phone numbers of theatres in L.A. and NYC, theatre professionals nationwide, and business contacts who can help smooth your path to a full showcase production.  It goes without saying that you should plan on these being at least somewhat out of date.<br />But it does have specifics like these and more.  For mounting a one-off production or starting your own theatre company, this is the best how-to book I've yet run across.  It's the only one that really tells you what you need to do and how to do it, rather than laying down vague platitudes on the theme.<br />Get it and put it to use.  But bear in mind it's nearly three years old, and that's a long time in the arts.	2004-02-02
US	51031013	R2R57H1DD14QT0	0299185842	64790880	Show and Tell: New and Selected Poems (The University of Wisconsin Press Poetry Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Rare Clarity and Genius	I often cuss the current crop of poets.  Many of them seem to be self-infatuated blowhards who are writing in some kind of inbred code that will allow them to congradulate each other on how wise they are.  Unless you have an alphabet soup of degrees behind your name, as most of us don't, you can't grasp a blessed word being said.<br />Daniels, who worked in a Detroit auto plant to pay his way through graduate school, doesn't seem that way at all.  His work, though deep, is accessible,and his use of language is down-to-earth.  This is something I really admire in a poet-when he writes not to be studied, but to be read.<br />His inspiration comes from a myriad of sources.  His troubled religious faith, his family, his years in the factory followed by years in academia, even the music of the J. Geils Band all provide fodder for him.  This book is a synopsis of Daniels' poetic career, allowing us to see him at all phases of his artistic development, and it's all a pleasure to be seen.<br />The poems even have different structures.  Some rhyme, some don't.  Some, like &quot;Time, Temperature,&quot; are long and meaty, while others, like &quot;The Fall,&quot; are quick and concise.  None of them slack, no matter what their length, and all are pleasing for a broad cross-section of the reading public to consume.<br />Despite his luminous c.v., Daniels is a poet of the people, a creator of work that cries out to be read.  If you love poetry, grab this book quickly.  Even if you don't love poetry, this book will be a worthy investment.  Read it often and enjoy!	2003-11-16
US	51031013	R1LYDGOLI7BKAO	0451459393	434249567	Way of the Wolf: Book One Of The Vampire Earth	Books	4	4	6	N	N	That Rare Thing in Vampire Fiction: a New Idea	It's hard to find new ideas in vampire fiction.  All the great stories have been told; even Anne Rice has become old hat.  Finding a really good vampire novel that doesn't rehash old matter is a rare treat, and that's why I enjoyed reading Way of the Wolf.<br />Not that this is a perfect volume.  Author E.E. Knight seems to have reduced two volumes into one here.  This book is divided in two unequal halves.  The longer first half establishes the character, setting, and back story for an intended series of novels.  The second half begins the real story arc, one that isn't completed in this book.  The two stories aren't grafted together perfectly, and the first half seems edited down from what may have been a novel-length first draft.<br />But the story is compelling, and the characters are engaging enough to draw the reader through some of the slower exposition in the first part of the book.  Combining the vampire novel with another staple of fantastic fiction, the post-apocalypse, this novel is simultaneously reminiscent of Dracula and A Canticle for Leibowitz.<br />A story this inclusive could easily devolve into tasteless pablum, but Knight is a strong enough writer to keep the work strong and flowing.  The episodic nature suggests this book would translate well into a movie or, preferably, a TV mini-series, yet is literary enough to justify being written as a novel.  Even the word choice is subtle enough to create moods without having to spell everything out all at once.<br />I would have liked to see more of the plot threads from the first half of the novel carried into the second half.  By this I mean Gabrielle Cho, who seems to disappear from the narrative when she's no longer an part of the direct action.  However, for an action-driven novel, it's far superior to most of what gets produced today.<br />This is the first novel in a series, and the debut novel from its author.  It pops it's eminently readable, and it suggests wonderful future possibilities from Knight.  I look forward to the second volume, and more, from this promising new author.Knight.  I look forward to the second volume, and more, from this promising new author.	2003-11-16
US	51031013	RFPAK684DAD6C	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fear and Trembling	Palast, an American expatriate living in the UK, is sick and tired of being taken for a ride by a media establishment that wants to straddle the fence, a series of governments that don't answer to the people, and runaway authority being given to corporations.  And this is his manifesto to do something about it.<br />The largest part of this book is dedicated to detailing the abuses of the current administration in dealing out power and authority.  Palast's flip, vulgar tone seems designed to shut out people who most need convincing in this part, and I have to wonder why he did that.  However, for those of us hungering for the exact facts on who's doing what to who and why, the first three chapters of this book explain more than we even feared.<br />But Palast isn't just peeved with the Bush administration.  He's also ticked with the Clintons, who he says bent over and took it for the corporations too.  He doesn't spend the kind of time on Clinton as he does on Bush, by his own admission, but that's not partisanship.  Bush is in power, Clinton is yesterday's news, and what's to be gained by flagellating that particular moribund equine?<br />The targets of Palast's ire also include Pat Robertson, Milton Friedman, small-town businessmen, CEOs who hold power like Pharaoahs, and more.  He tears after tham all with equal zeal and, unfortunately, equal flippancy.  Palast isn't a stock liberal, but his rhetoric comes across like one, and I'm afraid he may polarize more opinion than he sways.<br />But truth is seldom pretty.  For those who have strong feelings one way or the other on issues of government and industry, this is a strong book.  Maybe it won't make any converts, but it will make the true believers understand all the more what it is they already believe.	2003-10-23
US	51031013	R3PXAOBS73PCJU	080903719X	990256779	Why the Cocks Fight: Dominicans, Haitians, and the Struggle for Hispaniola	Books	3	36	42	N	N	Almost	We've needed a book that addresses Haiti and the Dominican Republic in the context of one another.  Both keep cropping up in the news, and both keep trying to tear chunks out of each other.  A meaningful study of the two nations together would make all the difference in the world in sorting out the important issues.  But this isn't that book.<br />Oh, it's informative.  It's also very close to being up to date, having been published in 1999.  Wucker, who has written for Dominican newspapers in the U.S., knows whereof she speaks.  But this book doesn't really treat both nations.<br />There's a great deal on the Dominican Republic.  The convoluted history of the nation in the Twentieth Century has never been so eloquently explicated.  It's a history of shifting alliances, powerful people, anger, justice, injustice, and more.  And every bit of it helps in understanding the ins and outs of why so many Dominicans are coming to America and why we should care.<br />But Haiti glides by under the radar screen.  Most of the material about Haiti in this book is actually about Haitians living in the Dominican Republic.  The political information on Haiti seems to come almost entirely out of history books.  Wucker travelled extensively in the Dominican Republic, but to judge by the contents of this book, she may have made one or two day trips across the border into Haiti, that's it.<br />Striking the balance between Dominican and Haitian issues is difficult, both on Hispaniola and in studies thereof.  Ms. Wucker has tried to do so, and she's to be commended for that.  Indeed, she's come closer to succeeding than anyone else in recent memory.  However, this book is almost entirely one-sided, and just can't quite make the leap into usefulness.	2003-10-23
US	51031013	R30QWLSGKVSRMC	0764554298	431465894	Japanese For Dummies	Books	3	35	51	N	Y	Won't Teach You Japanese	Okay, let's be frank.  The only way you ever learn to speak a language is through immersion in it.  At least for a certain length of time, preferably a couple of hours every day, you need to speak, hear, read, and think that language.  And you won't get that with this book.<br />Japanese never displaces English as the language of instruction.  You see not one Japanese writing symbol.  You get a few phrases, a few words, but very little idea how these words are used, and no real idea how to string them together into a sentence.<br />It's not a worthless book.  If, like me, you've let your Japanese go and you need a refresher course, this book can be valuable.  I'm already a little better than I was when I picked up the book.  However, if you're a newcomer to the language, you best bet is to take a college course or get a Japanese friend to tutor you.  Give this book a pass.	2003-10-14
US	51031013	R14Z7N2HXUD00T	0451459067	966522728	Dhampir (Noble Dead)	Books	2	12	22	N	N	I Really Tried...	I did, I really made a game attempt to read this book.  But I got sixty pages in, set it down, and now I can't bring myself to pick it up again.  And that's sad, because you can tell the authors put their hearts and souls into the writing effort.<br />A cover blurb by author Kevin J Anderson says, &quot;A mix of The Lord of the Rings and Buffy the Vampire Slayer.&quot;  While it has the humor and playful attitude of Buffy, LOTR it ain't.<br />When Tolkein wrote, he knew everything there was to know about his characters and his setting.  Every character had an elaborate personal history, every nation had a folklore and a language, every artifact a mythology.  One doesn't get that feeling with this book.  There's very little detail of the phycisal space.  There's no sense of deeper identity in the characters.  It feels like a world willed into existence.<br />Part of what gets me is the lack of historical grounding.  When you read LOTR, you can tell it belongs to a specific time and place: early Iron Age Europe.  This book mixes that period with the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, and the Neoclassical period.  On top of that, several very recent words, like &quot;adolescent&quot; and &quot;adrenaline,&quot; creep in, lending a disharmonious note.  LOTR exists in a place that never existed.  This book exists in a place that never could or would have existed.<br />To the authors' credit, the vampire motif is well integrated.  A vampire fantasy could easily lapse into some sort of epic battle between Bram Stoker and Conan the Barbarian, but it doesn't in this book.  It is in this combination of styles that don't often mix that the authors' love of what they're doing is given away.  And they deserve applause for that.<br />However, there's an attempt to set up some kind of mystery regarding the origin of the protagonist.  Who is she, what is her lineage, where did she come from?  Then they title the book Dhampir, giving the game away.  Was that the wisest thing possible?<br />The authors care about their product, and that's what's most refreshing.  I look forward to great and meaningful things from them in the future.  However, this book, with its wild jumble of content and influences, isn't it.  Well, time will tell./>The authors care about their product, and that's what's most refreshing.  I look forward to great and meaningful things from them in the future.  However, this book, with its wild jumble of content and influences, isn't it.  Well, time will tell.	2003-09-28
US	51031013	R3J2YX8A2S25IY	158115237X	418166934	Building the Successful Theater Company	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Find Your Way; We'll Help	Please notice the absence of the words &quot;How To&quot; in the title of this book.  This is a book of practical advice from the world of experience, not a book of instruction with facts and statistics.  You will need to know and learn a great deal to figure out how to start and build a thriving theatre company, and this book will give you only the merest outline of what you need.<br />That said, this book does glean the best advice from companies like Steppenwolf, Bailiwick, Mixed Blood, and the legendary Pasadena Playhouse, and presents all this advice in a clear, readable manner.  Be explaining how these above-average, highly-respected theatre companies built themselves up--their mistakes as well as their successes--we get a glimpse into the world of high motivation, artistic dedication, and pure love that turns something as uncertain as a theatre company into a thriving success.<br />You'll still have to do the hard work yourself, and you'll still make some nasty mistakes right off the bat.  Indeed, this book encourages you to do so early and often, so you get it out of your system.  But if you want to get some good pointers and avoid the really egregious errors, this is your book.	2003-06-09
US	51031013	R35TX9TJUMN5JI	0802130917	863357192	Glengarry Glen Ross: A Play	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Characterizes an Age	This is, to a great degree, the true David Mamet play.  It exemplifies his distinctive characters, his powerful but conflicted men, his insight into moral collapse, and his famous jagged writing style.  But it's also more than that.<br />\\"Glengarry Glen Ross\\" casts its jaundiced eye on the attitudes of competitiveness and unbridled capitalism, and their destructive effects, that have characterized the last 25 years.  In his conclusion, with the death of loyalty in the face of get-ahead-at-any-cost, Mamet demonstrates just why so many of us who have to work for a living are angry and unhappy these days.<br />The use of language in this play, with its musical use of fragmented sentences and almost operatic vulgarity, is as epoch-making as the content.  Many aspiring playwrights who have great vision but lack Mamet's gift for lyrical speech have tried--and failed--to emulate the use of language in this play.  Very little new material has come out of the American theatre in the past two decades that hasn't borne the stamp of language created in this play.<br />Read it.  See it.  Stage it.  This play is the defining artistic statement of the final quarter of the Twentieth Century.	2003-06-09
US	51031013	R5RB4AJBTBCGE	0878301364	432758745	New Playwriting Strategies: A Language-Based Approach to Playwriting (A Theatre Arts Book)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Useful but Slanted	Okay, let's clarify the title.  \\"New Playwriting Strategies\\" does not mean \\"New Strategies for Playwriting.\\"  It means strategies for what author Paul C. Castagno calls \\"New Playwriting.\\"  What an awful name.  Like \\"New Math,\\" \\"New Left,\\" and \\"New Jersey,\\" it's a title that will quickly age and become its own worst parody.  Unfortunately, the techniques described in this book risk following the same path.<br />Castagno starts with an overview of the philosophy of the Russian Formalist critics, and goes into how the writings of the playwrights he profiles have supported this philosophy.  Then he tells the reader to imitate this pattern.  This is putting the cart before the horse--criticism follows literature, not vice versa.  An author seeking to emulate a critic's view of what literature should be is bound to create a ho-hum piece.  The author also spends a lot of time on an armload of technical terms introduced early in the book.  I fear for this kind of by-the-numbers writing, as it will inevitably produce a disspirited final product.  And why must the same narrow handful of playwrights get the nod for use as examples?  Len Jenkin and Mac Wellman in particular keep coming up often.  What's the deal with this near-religious fervor for such a small number of writers?<br />On the other hand, the book is broken up with a few useful exercises, which shift the emphasis from the theories Castagno wants to propound, into the arena of practice.  Most of the exercises won't produce anything that will actually be useful in your play, but they'll help you cultivate a creative mindset outside the commercial realism favored by too many.<br />The strategies in this book aren't actually new.  Many were used by classical greats like Shakespeare and Sophocles, and they enjoyed a renewed popularity in the 20th century, due in part to the late writings of August Strindburg.  However, they're not widely used in America, and perhaps this book will give some of them the better airing they deserve.<br />You'll have to work around Castagno's demeaning attitude to playwrights who don't use the techniques he espouses.  His condescencion to realism, to integrated characters, and to linear narrative are almost self-parodizing.  Many good playwrights pick and choose, sometimes going more realistic and sometimes less, and that includes many of the playwrights Castagno favors in this book.<br />This is not the best possible book on the playwriting techniques described herein.  However, it's the only one out there right now.  Most of the playwrights who use the style Castagno describes eschew writing books of theory, so it may be a while before a better book comes out.  Until then, using this book with a clear head and careful hand will help break down the walls that may surround you as they surround most of us.ey deserve.<br />You'll have to work around Castagno's demeaning attitude to playwrights who don't use the techniques he espouses.  His condescencion to realism, to integrated characters, and to linear narrative are almost self-parodizing.  Many good playwrights pick and choose, sometimes going more realistic and sometimes less, and that includes many of the playwrights Castagno favors in this book.<br />This is not the best possible book on the playwriting techniques described herein.  However, it's the only one out there right now.  Most of the playwrights who use the style Castagno describes eschew writing books of theory, so it may be a while before a better book comes out.  Until then, using this book with a clear head and careful hand will help break down the walls that may surround you as they surround most of us.	2003-06-09
US	51031013	R3MP0RVK4DT4C6	0571198775	749122786	Wit: A Play	Books	5	26	26	N	N	What Not To Do and Why To Do It Anyway	Playwright Margaret Edson does everything in this play that playwrighting and directing teachers tell their students not to do.  She speaks in jargon.  She breaks the fourth wall.  She demands a hefty cast.  She's digressive.<br />Yet the play, both in performance and as literature, is compelling.  This play, in the great expressionist style, creates a world as seen through the eyes of only one character.  Events unfold from a distinct point of view that is made comprehensible to us by allowing that POV to address us apart from stage events.<br />Edson, a literature graduate and former oncology ward worker, is knowledgeable about the topics that inform this play: classic poetry and cancer.  The connection between the metaphysical lyrics of John Donne and the imminent mortality of uterine cancer provide a smooth harmony in the character of Dr. Vivian Bearing.  Thematically and structurally, this play has the theatrical elements that make playwrights from Sophocles to Strindburg to Sam Shepard writers of great significance.<br />This isn't to say the play is easy to stage.  Scene shifts take place without a pause to let actors get their feet.  Our narrator gets a pelvic exam in full view of the audience.  Supporting characters double on the fly, and lead characters have to change ages from scene to scene.  At the final moments, our narrator appears in front of us as naked as the day she was born.<br />But these difficult elements contribute to the great meaning that is this play.  Without these trials, the production wouldn't touch us in the same way.  We need these almost offensive structural components to understand what the narrator must endure.<br />This play is difficult to read, difficult to stage, difficult to watch.  Yet the things that make it difficult make it most ultimately rewarding.  A modern classic from a forward-thinking mind.	2003-05-24
US	51031013	R3CO7C6VA1HXSO	0452264014	18351344	Fences	Books	4	31	38	N	N	Real Characters in a Real Situation	From the opening scene we as audience members are dropped whole into the world of the characters in August Wilson's classic play.  The dialect of the characters, the hints of jargon, and the references that aren't explained but simply ARE allow us to be immersed in his setting.  This back porch, with its visible foibles (exposed icebox, half-built fence) make Troy Maxson, his family, and his friends into new beings that become larger than their own lives--and very like our own lives.<br />There is nothing in this play we don't all have to face from day to day.  Work, marriage, family disputes, mental illness, adultery, violence, and more events populate this play as surely as the characters do.  Yet the clear, Sophoclean way they are addressed makes them matter to us in an immediate, powerful way.<br />The play is broken up into two acts, comprising eleven scenes.  The first ten take place over a span of a few months, while the final provides an epilogue some years later.  Some modern theatre purists will balk at this many divisions, and yet the way Wilson makes them pop will let an audience that loves theatre to both enjoy and understand what's happening to the characters.<br />This is a difficult piece of theatrical literature, yet one of the most important and compelling of the last twenty years.  For all its faluts (slipshod editing, internal contradictions, great length) it remains a valuable play, and one that hasn't received nearly the acclaim it deserves.	2003-05-24
US	51031013	R1ZB5NQES4AXWE	4889960724	416168706	Remembering the Kana: The Hiragana / The Katakana	Books	4	26	30	N	Y	A Good Book to Use Your Way	James W. Heisig swears, in the two slim volumes that make up this combined book, to be able to teach you to use the two main Japanese syllabaries in three hours each.  And I bet he could do it, too.  But don't try to learn them quickly, try instead to learn them well.<br />Each syllabary is broken down into six half-hour lessons.  The symbols themselves are arranged in what Heisig believes to be the best order for learning, as opposed to the order in which they're arranged in dictionaries.  Some people will disparage this system because it's not the way Japanese schoolchildren are introduced to their writing system.  However, Japanese schoolchildren are introduced to these writing systems at a much younger and more impressionable age than you probably were, so you need to do what will teach you the language, not what taught them.<br />The mnemonic devices used in this book aren't always terribly helpful; some are a hindrance.  Which bits will help which people and which will harm will depend on you, so enter this book willing to disregard the elements that don't aid you personally.  A good judgment and some knowledge of how you personally learn will serve you as you struggle to get through the process.<br />My Japanese friends admit that their written language is very complex, and unless you learn at a very early age, you'll always have difficulty.  However, it's definitely a worthwhile language, and a worthwhile writing system, to study if you desire to be a worldly person.  This book provides an outline to learning if you know how to use it, and if you don't just mindlessly follow your teacher's instructions.	2003-05-05
US	51031013	R4S2WV63DHUG4	0743452747	943714512	The Man in the Maze	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Sophocles Redux	Mankind is threatened by an alien that strips us of our free will.  We can't communicate with these aliens, so we can't fight or appease them.  Our only hope is Dick Muller, who, in mankind's first contact with an alien race, was permanently maimed and cannot live with humans anymore.  However, it is precisely this injury that gives him the opportunity to let the aliens know we are a thinking race.  The only question is-will he reject the human race that previously rejected him?<br /><br />This modern retelling of the myth of Philoctetes is short, sweet, and to the point.  It doesn't pause for discursive considerations of the maning of life or the nature of the human beast; that would belabor a subtle point and lose the larger meaning.  The whole piece is a careful consideration of the limits of the human animal, and what makes it possible to live with one another.<br /><br />This silver-age SF gem presaged such Silverberg classics as Dying Inside, a more careful meditation on the same themes.  It also dovetails neatly into the New Wave of science fiction, in which the great source of speculation isn't scientific advancement, but the limits of the human being.  All in all, it becomes a forward-thinking insight using a framework as old as time.  Though imperfect, it belongs to a class of book that just doesn't get written anymore.	2003-04-30
US	51031013	R1FINDHALRYS4	0881335649	455223787	Playwriting: Writing Producing and Selling Your Play	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Get It.  Now.  Now!	Like many people who aspire to be working writers, I've sunk a lot of money into books intended to make me better at my desired field.  Maybe you have, too.  If you have, you know there are three things no writing book will ever give you.<br />1. Inspiration<br />2. Discipline<br />3. Connections<br />This book is no exception.  You'll be sorely disappointed if you go in search of any of these golden rings using this book as your guide.  If you think this, or any, book will provide any of these things for you, give up now, go get a real job, make room in the field for the chosen and called.<br />You will not be able to read this book and crank out a production-level script cold.  But if you dedicate your time to practicing the exercises Catron provides; if you try, try again; if you pursue his advice and keep this book close at hand all the way through the production process, you should do just fine.<br />Catron offers a breakdown of play elements based on Aristotle, he offers an overview of what literary directors are usually looking for, he even offers a tutorial in formatting your script so an otherwise sterling piece doesn't get thrown aside too soon for being improperly constructed.  If you have a gift for writing theatre, and a burning desire that causes you to spend enough time in writing every day to develop and maintain your skills, this book will bridge the gap between that and being ready for production.<br />This book won't provide any magic bullets.  You have to want to write, and you have to want to work at it.  If you really, really want to be a playwright, and you're really, really willing to work at it, get this book before any other.  Then buckle down and START WRITING!!!	2003-04-14
US	51031013	R5C6N1Y2N6W9V	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Preaching to the Choir, but That's Okay	Max Barry's second novel, \\"Jennifer Government,\\" is an interesting read in the style of \\"Brave New World\\" and \\"Animal Farm.\\"  Using a trope we've all seen more than once - the idea of a dystopian future in which our lives as citizens have been bought out by major corporations - Barry crafts a hybrid of police procedural, spy drama, love story, and polemic inflected with a distinct voice.<br />That said, the book is imperfect.  Barry is trying to craft a political novel by combining the standards of a paperback action book with targeted invective.  At times the balance tilts one way or the other, lapsing alternately into a shoot-em-up and a harangue.  In the former case, the point can be forgotten in favor of the villainy and derring-do; in the latter case, the plot bogs down in the face of argument.  Both of these slow down the intellectual processing of the book.<br />The storyline is uncomplicated: in a future world, in which technology doesn't appear to have advanced all that much but society has devolved horribly, a corporate honcho decides that a wave of violence would drum up business and move a lot of product.  This sets off a chain of events that pit the police against the NRA, with the government trying to stop all of them.  Events rocket from Australia to California to London to wherever they wind up, all at a substantial pace.  Gun battles are balanced by intellectual games and willpower contests.  Read the novel for itself, in these terms, and it's a pretty good book.<br />Unfortunately, the intellectual point is never satisfactorily addressed, leaving readers who straddle the fence on the issue of corporate influence unswayed.  Barry seems to know what it is he's gunning for, creating this cautionary tale of the end of the world through buyout, but he also seems to expect that everyone will agree with him because his point is just so true.  This won't wash with those who have their minds made up against him.<br />The cinema-friendly imagery in this book suggests that Barry, here disparaging corporate marketing tactics, is looking to cross-market his book.  Huh?  Sure enough, Stephen Soderbergh and George Clooney have already optioned the story.  Beliefs are good as long as they keep you fed, I suppose.  Besides, even if having two big names in the media world hold forth to us about the evils of marketing, and it's bedfellow the media, at least the message is still getting out there.<br />This novel will probably entertain and endorse those who already agree with its general thrust.  To those who know the background information Barry assumes, it will be a great read.  To those who support the status quo, or think the free market will make everything well, this book will be tiresome and without point.  This is a cautionary tale that may serve to caution only those who already believe.suggests that Barry, here disparaging corporate marketing tactics, is looking to cross-market his book.  Huh?  Sure enough, Stephen Soderbergh and George Clooney have already optioned the story.  Beliefs are good as long as they keep you fed, I suppose.  Besides, even if having two big names in the media world hold forth to us about the evils of marketing, and it's bedfellow the media, at least the message is still getting out there.<br />This novel will probably entertain and endorse those who already agree with its general thrust.  To those who know the background information Barry assumes, it will be a great read.  To those who support the status quo, or think the free market will make everything well, this book will be tiresome and without point.  This is a cautionary tale that may serve to caution only those who already believe.	2003-03-11
US	51031013	R1TQULKX83PZ3G	0446527742	903435239	The Mocking Program	Books	4	11	12	N	N	FutureCop	The best way to approach this novel is not as a science fiction story but as a police procedural.  Alan Dean Foster, one of the unappreciated lights in the SF pantheon, has crafted a cop drama with the distinguishing characteristic of being set about a century in the future.  Technology has advanced, borders have changed, demands on individuals are different \\" but human nature, including criminal nature, is the same as it ever was.<br />Readers should also be aware that this book appears to be the beginning of a series.  Two characters are introduced with obvious intent for a later payoff that doesn't come in this novel.  The point plainly is to have our hero, Inspector Angel Cardenas, owing favors to somebody in a future book.  Even the characters of Cardenas and his partner, Rudy Hyaki, are plainly meant to be repeatable in the best Sherlock Holmes style.<br />The book is peppered with future slang so thick that there's a glossary at the back.  In some books this is distracting, but because most of the slang has its roots in words we're familiar with, it only serves in this case to deepen the realism of the setting.  Don't be flustered by jargon; if you need to look it up, do so, but remember, it's all part of the story.<br />Not everyone will like this title.  There are a number of gun battles, which are likely to alienate some people who are opposed to violence, and which are painted in rather broad strokes.  The ending isn't completely unsatisfying, as though Foster wasn't sure what to do with all the plot points he wound up, but it does tie up this one novel well while leaving the possibility (probability) of sequels available.  Still, there is more good about this novel then bad, and curious or adventurous readers will be well rewarded.<br />A good read for fans of both genres, a possible benchmark for the hybrid of two genres, this book is a worthy purchase.  Foster is a strong writer, and this is a strong book	2003-02-09
US	51031013	R3TKFNFK6RWMMX	0435070347	888894589	Playwriting In Process: Thinking and Working Theatrically	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Playing Brings Out Your Play	Writers who invest themselves in the art for the long term are always looking for ways to improve their skill.  And playwrights are always seeking the best way to express their material for performance, rather than literary, purposes.  This book combines both pursuits.<br />Using the games format familiar to any of us who have spent any time onstage, Michael Wright gives writers an opportunity to find what works for them, a chance to devise their own style.  Much more free than the prescriptivist style favored by most writing texts, this approach allows an individual writer to discover what works best for the self, what the writer's personal style is, even what kinds of characters a particular playwright works best with.<br />Nor is the book solely intended for novice writers.  There are games intended to work out stuck scripts in progress, teach experienced writers new techniques, and more.  There are even games intended to teach experienced playwrights how to collaborate, which is difficult even for the best.  As with common theatrical games, different approaches to the same old game can unlock unexpected potential, and even using the same old game over again on a new play can teach volumes.<br />This book isn't a magic bullet to make you a better writer.  However, it offers you the tools to build up your own writing ability.  Even prose writers and screenwriters can make use of many of these games.  Invest yourself in what the games have to offer, and see if you don't come out a better writer in the end	2003-02-09
US	51031013	R1HKR4KB09EGV9	0062720732	851944626	The New Lifetime Reading Plan: The Classical Guide to World Literature, Revised and Expanded	Books	4	39	44	N	N	Sit Back With a Good Book  About Books	We in America have moved away from the idea of a core cultural corpus.  Many people we work with, talk to, play by, and love every day have never read the central works of our culture.  How can we possibly communicate with each other, much less claim to be a nation with a sophisticated cultural background, when we have no core in common between us?<br />In three previous editions of The Lifetime Reading Plan, Clifton Fadiman has attempted to spell out what books constitute the center of our culture.  There has been no universal agreement, and making a list like this is always controversial.  I think Percy Bysshe Shelley is a ratchet-jaw with a tin ear, but many scholars think his work is epochal.  Kudos to Fadiman for braving this controversy and sticking to his guns.<br />With this fourth edition, dubbed The New Lifetime Reading Plan, Fadiman teams up with John S. Major to expand the curriculum outside the Western World.  In an increasingly interconnected planet, it is necessary to know not just about our own culture, but about the cultures throughout the world.  However, the kind of person who would buy a book like this is generally going to be pretty conservative about these issues, and the authors are to be applauded for going worldwide in the face of this.<br />The Bible is noticeably absent from the western classics.  The authors explain this away by pointing out that most Americans either own a copy of the Bible or have access to one.  This really doesn't wash, as even many devout Christians have no idea what's between the covers of the Good Book.  Still, it's the thought (that most people read at home) that counts.<br />Possibly the most controversial section of the book is a selection of 100 Twentieth-Century writers the authors consider worth reading.  Because many of these people are alive now or were alive in living memory, there will be some heated discussions stirred by these selections.  I was disappointed by the fact that T.C. Boyle is absent from the list, though gratified that J.R.R. Tolkein, whom many self-proclaimed literati despise, was included.<br />Perhaps the most important thing to remember is that the authors don't claim these are the only books worth reading.  They simply suggest that these books should form a universal center from which other thoughts may radiate.  Used for that purpose, this is a superlative primer and a good jumping-off point for library buildinge list, though gratified that J.R.R. Tolkein, whom many self-proclaimed literati despise, was included.<br />Perhaps the most important thing to remember is that the authors don't claim these are the only books worth reading.  They simply suggest that these books should form a universal center from which other thoughts may radiate.  Used for that purpose, this is a superlative primer and a good jumping-off point for library building	2003-01-08
US	51031013	R1WT3EWR58BR1	0878301550	535604900	Towards a Poor Theatre (Theatre Arts (Routledge Paperback))	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	Beauty in Poverty and Performance	Comprehending this book is no small feat.  Sure, you start with the premise that competing with the technical spectacle of movies and TV is a fruitless pursuit.  That's not difficult.  Neither is the idea of embracing poverty in theatre and making the human being the only center of performance.  That's dead easy.  Spare costumes, little or no makeup, no sound effects, as few light effects as possible.  Who can argue with that?<br />But this doesn't mean everybody can embrace Grotowski's vision of Poor Theatre.  His is one that involves stripping away all preconceived notions of theatre from the early Modern period on.  This will never fly in commercial theatre, dependent as it is on technology, nor will it satisfy many recent playwrights, who depend on technical do-funnies to make their shows work.<br />Grotowski also takes a funny view of plays, playwrights, and theoreticians who don't agree with him.  Among other things, he considers playwrights as hired talent and plays as essentially malleable.  He also suggests that the only way the writings of Artaud are useful in theatre is if they are taken elementally rather than globally - a position sure not to sit well with many avant-garde directors.<br />Because this book isn't a straight-ahead statement of principles, ideas, and practices, it yields its secrets only with difficulty.  Parts of it aren't even written by Grotowski, but are interviews by other authors, or even observations that don't include quotes from the man himself.  It was basically compiled to provide an overview of the ideas and products of the Polish Laboratory Theatre up to that time, and it encourages experiment and development by the reader.<br />This isn't to say that it isn't actually useful.  There are exercises for actors; there are statements of theory for directors; there are even sketches, diagrams, and photos for designers.  However, expect to wrestle with this book if you're going to unlock its secrets.  Once you elect to start down this path, you have a long row to hoeis path, you have a long row to hoe	2003-01-08
US	51031013	RYS80DB6VX0J7	0740706721	470651737	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Guilty Pleasure	What is it with the desire to read reviews of bad movies, some of them now thirty years out of date?  It's the intellectual equivalent of craning your head out the car window to look at a roadside wreck.  The only possible motive I can conceive of wanting to read this fairly hefty collection (almost 300 pages) of reviews panning movies is that the reader wants to gloat that, at least, if nothing else, I'm not in here, haw haw haw.<br />And yet it's a fun read.  Time and again many of us have read books that tell us which movies are worth seeing, but seldom have we read any that warn us away from turkeys.  And rarely, if we have encountered lists of bad movies, have we encountered any with Roger Ebert's biting wit and insight.<br />Many people dismiss Ebert because of his willful attempts to connect with the middle-brow audience rather than aiming either high or low, but remember, it's the middle who forks over the largest share of their hard-earned money to get an eyeful of these films.  Personally, I like Ebert, and have found him the most consistently trustworthy critic out there to my personal taste.  Generally, if he says a movie is great, I can be sure I'll agree; if he says a certain picture should go take a flying leap, I know it's one I should skip.<br />Not everyone will agree with the opinions of this book.  I certainly don't.  For example, I thought \\"Patch Adams,\\" though very imperfect, was at least humorous.  Ebert panned it.  Likewise, I thought the prints of \\"Titanic\\" should be recycled into toilet paper spindles and be put to some constructive use; in a side note, Ebert calls the film \\"brilliant.\\"  And one movie Ebert shreds in here, \\"The Last Movie,\\" has appeared in another book I own as one of the 100 most-neglected movies you should run out and rent right now.<br />Still, even when you think Ebert is wrong, there's little doubt that his gifts for sarcasm, subtle irony, and word play make this book a fun read.  It's a worthy weigh-in to the ongoing debate over what's worth including in the motion picture canon.  And it's entertaining for weekend film buffs who like to rubberneck at car wrecks.debate over what's worth including in the motion picture canon.  And it's entertaining for weekend film buffs who like to rubberneck at car wrecks.	2002-12-11
US	51031013	R2TPG8JP4RMR9K	0684870673	849640122	Lies Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Pure Controversy	The reviews this book has already drawn demonstrate author James W. Loewen's principal assertion in this and other books: that history is essentially controversial.  If you approach the book with the understanding that it's intended to stir up some brouhaha and ruffle some feathers, you'll do just fine.<br />Unfortunately, Loewen's declarative style and his assertions treated as fact make it hard to keep this in mind.  Some of the statements he makes are easily agreeable.  When I lived in Hawaii, I was struck by how Caucasian the famous statues of King Kamehameha I looked, and there's no surprise when Loewen criticizes them for not looking Polynesian enough.  Other statements, like his broad condemnation of memorials to the Confederate dead, are going to bring some heated feelings to the fore.<br />It is in racial issues that Loewen excels, and he'll be more than happy to hold forth at length as to why white people are sinners and minorities are sanctified.  This stock liberal pose is unlikely to make any converts.  This is not to say any of his assertions are wrong, only that the author thinks he's being controversial, when he's actually parroting established opinions.<br />Probably the only factual failing Loewen makes is in asserting that historical markers should encompass more of the controversial nature of history.  This is unlikely to ever happen, as historical markers are put up primarily for the benefit of road-tripping middle-class families and local boosterism groups.  They're usually quite small, and couldn't possibly contain all the information with which Loewen would like to imbue them.  The people who put them up are consistently of the opinion that, if people want multiple views of history, they can read books.  (Ha, ha.)  Loewen's goals are noble and admirable, but unlikely to ever be realized.<br />One other glaring problem presents itself.  At the end of every mini-essay in the book, Loewen cites his source material.  In this and his other books, he has reviled the use of secondary sources in writing history books, yet his own cited sources are often secondary materials, as though he is tacitly acknowledging the cumbersome nature of double-checking primary sources.  A little consistency on this issue would strengthen the weight of the author's argument.<br />In general, this book is good, if you keep its intended purpose in mind.  If Loewen's style distracts you from the essential controversy of his opinions, you'll either wind up hating the book abjectly, or mimicking his opinions as blindly as other people mimic the mainstream opinion.  Let him tick you off, rile you up, get your blood flowing.  Then check his source material and make up your own mind.  Only then will you be fulfilling the point of this volume.he has reviled the use of secondary sources in writing history books, yet his own cited sources are often secondary materials, as though he is tacitly acknowledging the cumbersome nature of double-checking primary sources.  A little consistency on this issue would strengthen the weight of the author's argument.<br />In general, this book is good, if you keep its intended purpose in mind.  If Loewen's style distracts you from the essential controversy of his opinions, you'll either wind up hating the book abjectly, or mimicking his opinions as blindly as other people mimic the mainstream opinion.  Let him tick you off, rile you up, get your blood flowing.  Then check his source material and make up your own mind.  Only then will you be fulfilling the point of this volume.	2002-12-08
US	51031013	R2AK1VQY7NC4AM	0325003122	426160557	Perfect 10: Writing and Producing the 10-Minute Play	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Simple and Straightforward	Most how-to-write guides are completely worthless. Once you've learned your grammar and have the concepts of conflict and resolution mastered, the writer's ard lapses into something some people can do and some people can't, and no one really knows why. I keep buying how-to-write books, like this one by Gary Garrison, hoping one will eventually deliver more.<br />Well, this one delivers. By assuming the reader has already tried at least some writing, the paradigm shifts from simple instruction to specific points that green writers often need fine-tuned. Garrison seems more like a copy editor at times, making suggestions for clarity and story efficiency, than a mere how-to writer.<br />The book is slim, little more than a pamphlet, and the conversational tone sometimes comes across as flippant, so not everyone will enjoy working with it. Also, there's only about so much you can learn from reading a book; if you expect your work to be magically transformed by Garrison's charisma and ability, you're in for a sore disappointment.<br />However, this book is more useful than not. The two most useful chapters are Five and Seven.  In Chapter Five, Garrison interviews experienced ten-minute play producers, who make some actual nuts-and-bolts suggestions to improve the average young playwright's style. In Seven, Garrison reprints five whole ten-minute plays and asks astute study questions about them.<br />This book is no magic bullet. Writing remains hard work, and plenty of it. However, for a new writer looking to expand skill and depth in writing, this book helps you avoid the pitfalls that beleaguer those who insist on going it alone.	2002-12-05
US	51031013	R3D9NPGE29OCKR	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	5	234	288	N	N	California Dreaming	Q: So what is this book about?<br />A: Hmm, that's a pretty good question. There are issues of race involved, and racism, but you probably guessed that from the title. Honesty and values are questioned and examined. And national pride is also a going issue. And comparative wealth. But these aren't really what the book is about. It's more about... well, you'll just have to read it.<br />Q: That sounds like a cop-out. Didn't you read the book yourself?<br />A: Of course I did. I just finished reading it last night, around suppertime.<br />Q: Then why can't you give me a rundown of what the book's about?<br />A: Because it's a complex and sophisticated book. Author T. Coraghessan Boyle creates characters who represent both literal and supra-literal themes, contrasting the extremes of the economic spectrum in Southern California. His use of symbolic language and imagery is on a par with Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner. He consciously makes us think of modern issues in terms that were defined in other eras by writers like Voltaire, Aristotle, Keats, Jefferson, and Rousseau. This is an important and meaningful work. You really ought to read it.<br />Q: Sounds like the boring \\"literature\\" I had to read in high school that didn't even pretend to communicate with me. Is this going to be as dull as those books were?<br />A: Not hardly. I found it gripping reading. I put off preparing dinner to have time to read this book. I was late to class behind the time I spent reading this book. I missed my bedtime because I didn't want to stop reading this book. There are a lot of painfully dull books out there that we read because we're told we ought to, but not this one. You'll want to spend time reading this book, even as it challenges your assumptions.<br />Q: But that's not what this book is really about. Can you give me a thumbnail plot summary?<br />A: Sure. Delaney Mossbacher is a red-haired writer in his forties with liberal leanings and a tendency to become passionate about issues, living in California, though born on the East Coast-notably, this is a description that also applies to Boyle. Cndido Rincn is an illegal immigrant from Mexico, camped with his wife in a grassy creek valley in the middle of L.A.<br />Each is afflicted with his own worries, and each invests the same weight in his respective worries, though their respective circumstances mean they have very different worries. Delaney frets about the environment, racial parity, crime, and making payments on his house and car. Cndido worries about getting work to buy food, and whether his wife will be able to give birth in a hospital. Both are afflicted by a common seeming curse: everything either one tries to accomplish ultimately fails.<br />One day Delaney accidentally hits Cndido on the road, leaving the poor immigrant wounded and unable to find work. If Cndido goes to a hospital, the INS will deport him, so he accepts $20 from Delaney and slinks off to heal. All this happens right on page one and the next few pages-Boyle isn't interested in wasting the reader's time with slow set-up, and heads straight for the meat of his story.<br />From that one accident, the lives of the two men and their families move in tight orbits around each other, though they never discover it. They can't communicate, because they don't share a common language, and they're doomed forever to misunderstand one another. Each thinks the other to be something he isn't, and as they wade through a morass of non-comprehension, leading to a cataclysmic confrontation, both watch everything they thought they knew about themselves and the world around them crumble under the weight of suspicion, ignorance, and doubt.<br /> You really ought to read the book.<br />Q: But you make it sound like there's even more going on than just the plot. What all is this book trying to tell us?<br />A: It's about California. The two characters are emblematic of the spirit and nature of the state. Bear in mind, theCalifornia of the Beach Boys hasn't existed since about 1974. California is a divided state. Wealthy white people like Delaney get ahead by working and living with a go-go-go drive that leaves them too occupied to enjoy anything they've accomplished. These people are dependent on the working poor like Cndido for cheap, plentiful labor, but they despise these aliens for the very reason they need them-they work tirelessly, cheaply, plentifully, without paying taxes or being regulated.<br />Q: Is California really like that?<br />A: By and large. When I was younger I thought the Beach Boys' California must still exist, especially since I didn't notice the kind of life Boyle describes when I was attending high school in San Diego. However, that was over ten years ago. Having gone back as an adult, I have seen that California is a fragmented state, carved up into characterless subdivisions, ruled by glossy high-tech corporations, and consuming more of the natural world than it returns. The success-oriented California culture leaves no room for slacking off, and eats the few remaining pleasure-seekers and beach-bunnies for lunch. And it's fueled by the bulk labor of the inexhaustible supply of illegal immigrants that cross the border every day. It's all there to be read, you really ought to read the book.<br />Q: But what is the book ABOUT?<br />A: Everything I've said and more. It's sophisticated literature and it's lunchtime reading. It's brutally honest and it's humane. It sympathizes with the characters even as it's damning them. There's only one thing I can say about it: you really ought to read the book.	2002-11-14
US	51031013	RK4KB3HMRMCD7	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Dated Nature Enhances the Point	This book is seventeen years out of date as I write this, which is ancient history in the modern media.  There are references to TV shows, political scandals, and personalities that the current generation of TV-raised children won't even recognize.  To many of our jaded citizens today, this book might as well have been written in the late Cretaceous era.<br />And yet, somehow, that age helps to increase the book's appeal.  Neil Postman, who acknowledges his debt to Marshall McLuhan, isn't just another pathetic Jeremiah wailing against the woes of this earth; his dark predictions have been proven true by the passage of the years.  Indeed, as he wrote before the Internet became a mass medium, he seems at times far too conservative.<br />If you've gotten this far into a review of this book, chances are you've already come to the conclusion that TV is a destructive influence.  It's hard to live in this world and not recognize this fact; but anyone who doesn't already think so isn't likely to show this much interest.  What this book offers is a point-by-point examination of exactly what losses we've suffered, and ultimately a cool consideration of why we probably can't regain what we've lost.<br />Because most of us don't have the connections or the research time Postman does, we don't know the half of how bad our society has become as a result of TV and its connected media.  Postman is able to explain it to us.  The effects on our political arena, our religious life, our interpersonal relationships, and the education of our children are so deeply sunk into the fabric of our culture, Postman suggests, that the damage cannot now be undone.  We will continue on our current destructive path because people won't get off unless they want to, and TV has the effect of not making people want to get off.  ...<br />This book won't help you stave off the death slide.  It's doubtful anything can.  But it will help you understand, as the world goes to hell around you, how we got on this track, and understanding why we're all damned is better than nothing.	2002-11-11
US	51031013	R3UOW913OP92RR	1892065266	570594366	Dark Of The Gods	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Subtle and Different	I once had the pleasure of meeting the author of the two novels collected here at a writing workshop held at my college.  She is a handsome woman, full of verve, and blessed with a keen eye born of life experience that allows her to be not only a wonderful writer, but a wonderful friend to writers.  She also has a Ph.D. in English, so you know her writing is nothing to sneeze at.<br />This volume compiles her first two fantasy novels, \\"God Stalk\\" and \\"Dark of the Moon,\\" along with a short story, \\"Bones,\\" that adds to the events of the first novel.  In a genre dominated by authors who try to replicate one another's successes, and by readers who shy away from challenge or from anything new, it's no wonder these books are little known.  However, true lovers of fantastic fiction will be well rewarded by letting their gazes wander in this direction at least once.<br />The first book covers a year and a half in the life of the protagonist, Jame, and the second covers a matter of some short months.  (The third, \\"Seeker's Mask,\\" covers a little over a week.  Plainly some crisis point is approaching for the character.)  Her personal history is murky to us, and evidently only little better to her.  She has spent a great deal of time in a place where time evidently doesn't apply, as she is seeking out her long-lost twin brother, who is now ten years her senior.  She herself is an enthusiastic youth, and the story arc of the books is a maturation process for her.<br />In the first book, she finds herself at loose ends in a city where gods appear and disappear quite suddenly, where her own lost God gives her a task that violates everything she holds dear, and where her only options for survival include learning to steal and using her religious devotionals, which involve a hypnotic martial dance, as cheap entertainment.  First published nearly twenty years ago, when the author was only somewhat older than the character, it reflects the turmoil all youth go through as they try to define their identities without their parents, while remaining inextricably part of the world around them.  It also reflects the author's religious uncertainty, which comes out if you ever talk to her about issues spiritual.<br />The second book takes the character in a new direction.  She leaves behind the trappings of the life in the city, bringing only the newfound self-discipline with her.  She thinks she's going to cross the mountains into the land where her brother and her race live, but instead finds herself in a series of distortions, as time, space, and place are warped in an attempt to ensnare her for nefarious ends.  The quest for her brother, and with him some form of family link and some form of group identity, takes on the proportions of a heroic quest, and receives only momentary resolution, deeply unsatisfying to the character, at the end.<br />These novels are more complex than nearly any other written in the fantasy genre.  This, combined with the fact that P.C. Hodgell isn't a very prolific writer, has denied this story the popularity it deserves.  However, for true lovers of the genre, and for lovers of good popular literature, this omnibus volume is one of great significance and quality.  This is a book you'll lovingly reread and assign a treasured place in your collection.  More than fantasy, this is a potential novel for the ages-and how few others can make that claim.define their identities without their parents, while remaining inextricably part of the world around them.  It also reflects the author's religious uncertainty, which comes out if you ever talk to her about issues spiritual.<br />The second book takes the character in a new direction.  She leaves behind the trappings of the life in the city, bringing only the newfound self-discipline with her.  She thinks she's going to cross the mountains into the land where her brother and her race live, but instead finds herself in a series of distortions, as time, space, and place are warped in an attempt to ensnare her for nefarious ends.  The quest for her brother, and with him some form of family link and some form of group identity, takes on the proportions of a heroic quest, and receives only momentary resolution, deeply unsatisfying to the character, at the end.<br />These novels are more complex than nearly any other written in the fantasy genre.  This, combined with the fact that P.C. Hodgell isn't a very prolific writer, has denied this story the popularity it deserves.  However, for true lovers of the genre, and for lovers of good popular literature, this omnibus volume is one of great significance and quality.  This is a book you'll lovingly reread and assign a treasured place in your collection.  More than fantasy, this is a potential novel for the ages-and how few others can make that claim.	2002-11-11
US	51031013	R170U2O1MXAFQ2	1559362170	706711779	Dramatists Sourcebook 2002-03 Edition: Complete Opportunities for Playwrights, Translators, Composers, Lyricists and Librettists	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Sell!  Sell!  Sell!	Drama, by definition, is a public act.  Writing a playscript and sitting on it not only won't do anyone else any good, it will make you quite upset.  At the very least, you will want someone to read your script in a workshop.  But come on, what we all really want is to sell for production.<br />This book doesn't have as many entries as the Writer's Market, since it aims primarily at not-for-profit and educational theatre.  Art for art's sake.  However, its entries are much more thorough and help you target your submissions for where they're needed and wanted.  There are also entries for contests, agencies, grants and fellowships, retreats, state arts agencies, professional guilds, sources of emergency funds, and more.  This is a tightly focussed guide for the professional (or would-be professional) dramatist.<br />As an annual edition, it will eventually be out of date and will need to be discarded in favor of a new edition.  And there are a few typographical problems.  So the book isn't perfect.  However, it has everything you'll need in any practical way to move your scripts.  Treat it with respect and it will serve you well.	2002-10-22
US	51031013	R1RE8WPZYRS2W1	0971394202	70373676	Everything You Know Is Wrong: The Disinformation Guide to Secrets and Lies	Books	4	96	106	N	N	Everything You Know Is Subject to Debate	Richard Metzger claims, in his preface to this book, that concensus reality laid over and died in 1996.  If that's true, why is this book necessary?  Rather than support his claim, the book as a whole supports the exact opposite, reminding us that everything we think we know is subject to debate by someone.<br />This book is of uneven quality.  Some of the articles offer information that really does challenge readers' expectations.  Howard Zinn's history of the Ludlow Massacre is an excellent example, and should be shown to all Libertarians who think that Industry serves the common good.  Editor Russ Kick offers ample documentary evidence that the Columbine school shooting was more complex than we realize, while Mike Males comes from another direction, suggesting that kids are a lot healthier and more law-abiding than we realize.<br />Other articles aren't so hot.  Tristan Taormino's praise of polyamory uses vulgar terminology sure to keep anyone on the fence from changing their minds.  Are we really likely to agree to multiple partners if our best argument is full of language to make sailors blush?  Greg Palast and Oliver Shykles' condemnation of the International Monetary Fund, though probably correct, refuses to cite sources and has a flip tone that won't sway any key undecided minds.  Thomas Szasz, in claiming that mental illness is a fiction, simply states his opinion that psychoses don't exist, and then behaves as though his assertion is as good as proof.<br />This is not a scholarly book.  It is written with a distinct popular tone, though no clear political position.  Some articles are liberal, some conservative; some pro-industry, some anti-neoclassical economics; some pro-religion, some openly athiest.  David T. Hardy claims that law enforcement was too proactive and caused the disaster at Waco, but Philip W. Cook claims law enforcement doesn't do enough to protect men from domestic abuse.<br />In the end, this book, despite the declarative title, isn't trying to prove a point or change your mind.  It's trying to remind you that your belief doesn't equal ultimate truth.  It simply calls the opinions many of us share into question in a sheer attempt to keep us from marching lock-step into the slaughterhouse.<br />This is an excellent book if you're seeking to expand your thinking or if you want to hold your own in an argument.  If you can't handle a challenge to what you believe, don't bother with this book.  If you don't mind changing your opinions to suit the facts, this is the book for you.	2002-10-22
US	51031013	R1C6ABX79YG2L9	0880014903	864943235	Plays in One Act	Books	3	38	42	N	N	Intermittently Useful	This book is handy if you're a playwright looking for good names to imitate.  It's handy if you're examining styles popular in short plays (many of them ten minutes or less).  It's a neato-jet piece of gear if you're learning the language and jargon of the playwrighting scene.<br />This book is useless if you're a director looking to stage a one-act.  The plays are too irregular, and many are too short unless you're running an evening of ten-minute plays.  Some are radio plays, which are useless on stage.  Some are cuttings or extended monologues.  There is no unifying theme through the book, so it's hit-or-miss if what you find will even match any theme you may be looking for.<br />If you know this going in, the book can be useful to you.  Many people like it.  I found it a drag.	2002-10-17
US	51031013	R18S5USZ4KPLSU	0805210776	223069183	The Magic Orange Tree: and Other Haitian Folktales	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Learning Another Land	By the author's own admission, these stories weren't necessarily the best-told she encountered while researching folk tales in Haiti.  The flat page lacks the beauty of the oral tale, and some of these stories may have been a little weak in the telling; but on the page they reveal a great deal about Haiti, and are a fascinating read besides.<br />Folk tales reveal a great deal about a culture-what it values, how members of the society relate, what their beliefs are.  These tales do exactly that.  While they aren't as clear-cut, with a defined beginning, middle, and end, as American readers have become accustomed to, they do give away a great detail about Haiti.  Life is unfinished; hardship is to be embraced and studied; the spirit world is right here at hand, not a million miles away above the clouds.<br />Even on their own, they stand as a monument to the creative act and the power of the human intellect.  These stories will infect your head like a virus, spreading and replicating, until you have to pass them on.  Read them casually, and you will be enlightened.  Study them seriously, and you may be transformed.	2002-10-17
US	51031013	RX10F0600L9YQ	158542059X	947173920	Trust Us, We're Experts: How Industry Manipulates Science and gambles with Your Future	Books	4	56	61	N	N	Patterns Give Away Deceit	The bulk of this book is given over to detailing the consistent patterns big money has used to manipulate the flow of knowledge from those who have it to those who need it. In practice, this means the book details how \\"industry\\" (a term used but never clearly defined) is standing in the way of public health, environmental concerns, and more. Perhaps this book was printed with soy ink on recycled paper? Or are publishers not an industry?<br />That quibble aside, Stauber and Rampton attempt to demonstrate, primarily through pattern recognition, how easy it is to see through PR-motivated lies and hucksterism if we simply know what to look for. Uncomfortably cozy relationships with \\"independent\\" third parties are an obvious example, as is a tendency to divert attention from the credibility of the statement to the credibility of who makes the statement. In fact, an elementary knowledge of the rules of formal debate are well rewarded in reading this book, since you quickly discover that, if an \\"expert\\" is defying these rules, that expert is probably trying to take you to the cleaners.<br />The book is patently left-leaning. The authors are idealistic about human nature, for example, believing people would do the greatest good for the greatest number if they knew how to do it. The authors also appear to believe that government regulation is the necessary answer to inevitable government excess. This seems awfully nave in its sheer repetition at times. In Chapter Nine, the concession is briefly made that \\"public advocacy\\" groups will sometimes distort facts and figures to achieve their desired ends, but that assertion is ultimately deemed less important than the tendency of conservative forces to distort.<br />The ultimate chapter actually goes into some pointers for seeing through distortion and arming yourself to stand up for your beliefs. At least one previous reviewer seems to have missed this fact. This isn't just a list of information, there are actual pointers for action in here. Don't be shy about standing up for what you believe in, that's the message of this book, and one worth repeating, since we Americans allow ourselves to forget it all too easily.<br />This book shouldn't be sought out by anybody too in love with their conservative beliefs, their love of mass manufacturing, or a belief that prosperity must come on the heels of pollution. Despite its leanings, it maintains no sacred cows. Those willing to allow themselves to be challenged, however, will be richly rewarded by going out on a limb. This sophisticated, well-documented book tries to show the point where truth and lies intersect, and it is a view you will not soon forget.	2002-09-11
US	51031013	R303FS66KPC5JN	031228716X	793370692	Immediate Fiction: A Complete Writing Course	Books	3	48	74	N	Y	Good How-to Book -- For Beginners	I must admit to leaping haphazardly around this book rather than committedly studying it like a sacred text.  The author encourages us to do so early in the book.  Not everyone will get the same use out of everything, and we all have our own strengths and weaknesses as writers.  I strenuously sought out what I thought would be most useful to me as a writer.  And I really didn't find it.<br />This book can be a real eye-opener for many novice writers.  Cleaver's emphasis on the value of conflict to story development is something many beginners need drilled home for them.  Material from new writers often lacks this element, and winds up reading like a diary entry or an old-age reminiscence.  (I'm not accusing anyone here--my own early works often left something to be desired in this area.)<br />However, this, along with some related information on broad story structure, is the only concrete information that I can uncover.  This information is probably of great value to newbies who only know they want to write as well as the authors they enjoy reading.  Cleaver offers us the building blocks to create the first few levels of our pyramid.  However, the finish work just isn't there.<br />Why do some stories and novels that have Cleaver's building blocks sell and flourish, while others sell and die quietly, and even more just fail to sell?  Is there a magic bullet that editors seek?  Are some stories just more fun than others?  How do we get the fine command of language that makes the difference between klunkiness and success?  We're really not told in this volume.<br />Moreover, Cleaver's own writing style is one that shouldn't be followed in fiction.  With his fondness for parenthetical asides, boldface assertions, repetition of what he apparently considers key statements, and whole sentences and paragraphs in italics, his book looks like it was written by somebody's first-year graduate assistant.<br />Nitty-gritty concrete suggestions are few.  Even in the section on marketing fiction, he gives the reader an outline of possible strategies, and then suggests to us some other specialized books he thinks we might find useful.  There's nothing wrong with the material he presents us here, in and of itself.  It's all accurate and useful, and new writers may get a great deal of good out of it.  However, this is essentially a beginner's how-to that lacks the final finesse which makes the difference between success and failure.<br />Your book is good, useful, and true, Jerry, and I appreciate that, as do any number of beginners you put on the right road.  You just don't give moderately experienced writers like myself what we need to create the breakthrough from unsung semi-pro to the big leagues.  It's just not what more experienced writers need.rketing fiction, he gives the reader an outline of possible strategies, and then suggests to us some other specialized books he thinks we might find useful.  There's nothing wrong with the material he presents us here, in and of itself.  It's all accurate and useful, and new writers may get a great deal of good out of it.  However, this is essentially a beginner's how-to that lacks the final finesse which makes the difference between success and failure.<br />Your book is good, useful, and true, Jerry, and I appreciate that, as do any number of beginners you put on the right road.  You just don't give moderately experienced writers like myself what we need to create the breakthrough from unsung semi-pro to the big leagues.  It's just not what more experienced writers need.	2002-08-09
US	51031013	R2PB5ZEJDOWOZY	0440502438	775990395	Stand-Up Comedy: The Book	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Finally--a Writing How-To That Really Works!	This book must surely be one of the few writing how-to texts I've purchased that's really worth the money.  Though too narrow in focus to work for prose writers, this text actually gets down into the nitty-gritty of creating material that is on-target, marketable, and interesting.  Though incomplete in its examination of the potentials of comedy, it gives students a thorough grounding in the creation of humorous content for the stage.<br />Carter shies away from telling you too much on how to do topical material, instead coaching the novice comic to focus on the one thing you know more about than anyone else--your own fool self.  By simply starting with having you talk about what's on your mind, she presents you with an inexhaustable source of content.  This is mother's milk comedy, of course, but if you want something punchy like Foxworthy's \\"Redneck\\" routine or Margaret Cho's ethnic commentary, that will come with experience.<br />The stand-up comedy Carter coaches you on in this book has little to do with the joke-telling of Jack Benny or Henny Youngman.  Instead, you're presented with what seems a modern form of Native American storytelling, with the focus on the self.  This will not appeal to all up-and-coming comics, and some might find this book rather trying.  Starting out, however, most new comics will find good grounding in the stylistic tactics of this book.	2002-08-09
US	51031013	R1IYPD1VUH7EN9	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	3	3	6	N	N	We All Lose Our Edge Eventually	Poor P.J.  He's concertedly trying to be as witty and biting as he was when he created \\"Parliament of Whores,\\" but there comes a time for all of us when we just don't have the edge we once had.  Often, when an artist or media figure loses the edge, It's almost funny, if you're the kind who laughs at gallows humor.  With P.J., it's only painful.<br />I've been following P.J. for over ten years, when a high-school job in a book store allowed me to get copies of his books at a cut rate.  I think P.J. would appreciate the mercenary capitalist attitude behind this fact.  His \\"Give War a Chance,\\" which addressed the freshly-won Gulf War, touched a nerve with this military son, and I now own every book he's written (excepting some stuff where he's written introductions or forewords).<br />But this latest book is just sad.  His political and social satire, though still blessed with a few high points, pulls its punches, weakly echoes past glories, and holds too much too sacred to really cut to the quick.  Sometimes, when he's making fun of himself or poking fun at pop culture, he elicits some genuine laughs earned legitimately.  At other times, though, he struggles limply through a series of repetetive conservative social statements and sounds like an old man grouching at how snotty kids are today.<br />His format for this book, cribbed from Oliver Wendell Jones' \\"The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table,\\" seems like it ought to be promising.  However, when he tries to compress some of his dated topical material into his enforced one-year time span, he has to shimmy and jump through hoops, and it really looks forced.  His speeches to friends, family, and button-holed strangers, must be lengthy monologues, and I wish I could come up with such ostensibly pithy witticisms right off the top of my head.<br />The book is further hampered by when it was released.  Hitting the shelves just days before the World Trade Center was destroyed, his strongly jingoistic American attitudes can easily rub the wrong way.  Calling America one of the world's freest and most opportune countries may have seemed more apropos before a Third World organization attacked a symbol of our greatest economic excess.<br />I won't give P.J. up for lost just yet.  He may well pull some good ones out in the future.  However, he won't be able to do so until he's willing to re-examine the balance between being a humorist and being a jingoistic commentator.  The latter must be secondary to the former unless he's satisfied to be just another grouchy old man complaining, Archie Bunker-style, about how America is going down the drain.	2002-08-09
US	51031013	R2VQP16LNNBNBO	1566080037	679191057	Truth in Comedy: The Manual for Improvisation	Books	4	23	28	N	Y	Worthy for Die-Hards Looking to Progress	...<br />This book is primarily dedicated to \\"The Harold,\\" the standard of long-form improv.  It's a difficult form to master, but one that can impress, entertain, and even touch both audience and actors profoundly on stage.  There is a shortage of quick, easy games in this book.  Even those that are detailed exist to help build on the Harold.  This book is really meant for those who are ready to graduate to the next level of improv.<br />Many people don't like the Harold, but all long-form comedy improv, at some level, uses some variant of the Harold.  If this isn't what you want, spend your time and money finding out more about Paul Sills' Story Theater (which is, of course, not covered in this book).  Be warned, though, Story Theater often isn't funny, and appeals more to art afficianadoes than \\"WLiiA\\" fans, and isn't as renumerative.<br />Most of the book is given over to an explanation, not of performance standards or guidelines, but of the philosophy underlying improv in general, and the Harold in particular.  If that's not what you want, go get another book.  The standards in this book, moreover, are really intended for larger groups.  The four-player format of \\"WLiiA\\" would be unable to keep up with a full Harold.  Be sure you have enough actors ready to do the next big thing before you sink your money into this book.<br />This isn't a beginner's text for amateurs, it's for those who have a committment to creating improvisational art.  If that's you, this is your book.  If not, you're in a bad way spending money on this puppy.  Know yourself and your team before you invest your earnings on this slim volume.	2002-07-23
US	51031013	RETGKAX2B476T	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	3	163	166	N	N	I Hope This Is Part One	If you're looking at this book, chances are you've already come to the conclusion that there's something deeply, seriously wrong with modern American culture.  Community is disrupted, economic principles favor the wealthy few over the working many, and government is unresponsive to our demands.  The environment is in freefall, education is a joke, and you can't talk to your loved ones because they're too damn busy watching the idiot box.  Now you want to do something about it.<br />This book consistently fails to tell you how.<br />For the greatest part of the book, public-interest advocate Kalle Lasn holds forth on the problems with our society, from the small (mindless TV addiction) to the medium-sized (allowing fashion companies to dictate our ideals of beauty) to the monumental (destructive, unsustainable economic practices).  All this is useful, enlightening stuff to know, but let's be frank, we wanted to read this book because we already had an idea of these facts.  Now we want some ideas of what to do about it.<br />The subtitle on the front cover promises to tell you \\"How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge.\\"  Good luck finding that.  Lasn is fond of patting himself on the back for his past efforts in that direction, but he doesn't really tell the reader what an individual, with an individual's budget of money and time, can really do.  He says something at one point about things that can be done, but he speaks of really big options.  Take media conglomerates to the World Court?  If I had that kind of budget and know-how, I wouldn't be reading this book, now would I?<br />In giving us the detailed information on the flaws of society, we are having the gaps in our knowledge filled in, and that's handy.  However, by telling us what's wrong and not what to do about it, it's as though we're being given bullets without a gun.  This book is excellent if you're looking for a position piece, an explanation of what Lasn thinks and why, and of course that's always helpful.  However, if you actually want to weigh in and suggest what somebody could do about it, you're woefully on your own.  Here's hoping this is simply Volume One and more information will be coming later.  However, it's been three years without a follow-up.  It looks like us would-be revolutionaries are on our own from that side.	2002-07-23
US	51031013	R1GB4MUZZS8FIU	0916260984	202317987	Improve With Improv!: A Guide to Improvisation and Character Development	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not &quot;Whose Line&quot;	There is more than one purpose for improvisation.  The term is now thought of synonymously with comedy, probably because of the influence of Second City and \\"Whose Line Is It Anyway?\\"  However, it has also been used to create instructive lessons, socially motivated drama, and Augosto Boal's \\"Theatre of the Oppresed.\\"  And this book is none of these things.<br />Divided into twenty chapters, each intended as a free-standing lesson, this book provides an overview of improvisation useful in creating complex characterization, motivated movement, and good voice.  In other words, this book is meant, not for improvisation players, but for conventional actors.<br />As a director, I've used improvisation to create good \\"straight\\" theatre.  By making actors think about what the characters do outside the realm of the stage; by making actors think about what came before; by making actors become individual aspects of the character, a director can create a more complex, rounded stage picture.  Most recently, I managed to create a one-act play this way, casting mostly untrained actors, with only twelve rehearsals, and produce a comedy so winning that people (including the director) laughed until their sides hurt.<br />This is where the value of Brie Jones' course overview here becomes apparent.  Though Viola Spolin, the doyenne of improv, has already covered most of the issues in this book this lesson book remains valuable for high-school teachers and directors, workshop conductors, church youth-group leaders, and others who work with young actors.<br />The precepts of this book will be helpful for directors creating works like \\"Tony `n' Tina's Wedding\\" (guidelines for putting on a parody of this work are included in the back of the book), but for long-form character improv or the kind of games that are popular right now, this book is of little value.	2002-05-06
US	51031013	R7XWI77K2USEV	0916260690	954312770	Comedy Improvisation: Exercises & Techniques for Young Actors	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Imperfect Primer for Beginning Players	As the title of this book suggests, it is intended to provide \\"Exercises and Technique for Young Actors.\\" Everyone begins somewhere. Heaven knows I certainly did. However, if this book is all a young improv team uses to glean knowledge of the art, they will be sorely disappointed.<br />The book begins with a lengthy explication of what improv comedy is and why it's important, but fails to stress important points like why it's bad to force a joke, or how to constitute a themed show. The author also warns young performers away from doing full shows of improv on the grounds that it would be too overwhelming for audiences. I've never heard such a thing.<br />Most of the space in this book dedicated to exercises focuses on work for beginners, such as the mirror exercise. Granted, improv doyenne Viola Spolin, in the third edition of her classic \\"Improvisation for the Theatre,\\" lists eleven different kinds of mirror exercise. However, each of Spolin's exercises is concise and straightforward, while Horn rambles on about why the exercise is important and how it's done correctly. Besides, compare Spolin's 416-page textbook to Horn's 144-page primer, and see which is allocating space most effectively.<br />Horn also gives time and space to how to form a group, find work, secure good contracts, and protect copyright. These are all important issues for young performers, especially young performers who want to get paid for their work; but this takes away copy space from the specific how-to of performance. This is really meat for a separate book. Besides, young performers don't need to be told how to form groups, they'll partner up as skills develop and similar tastes and abilities become evident. The copyright information, moreover, is a decade out of date, and vague even when it was written.<br />This book is not worthless. That must be stressed. Young performers who want to play at parties or for family and friends will be served well by this information, spare though it is. Too much more detail might overwhelm young performers with light goals and no outside mentor.<br />However, as performers begin to seek outside their limited experience to deepen their performances, or as they seek professional work or recognition, this book will fail to suit their needs, and they will have to go to other resources if they don't want to have to go it alone. Good books like \\"Truth in Comedy\\" or \\"Improvisation for the Theatre\\" are more highly recommended for those who want to stick with this art over the long haul.	2002-05-06
US	51031013	R2R6D23POJGEX6	0810140101	118187320	Theater Games for the Lone Actor	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	Good Is Better Than Good Enough	\\"Theater Games for the Lone Actor\\" is not a beginner's book.  It is structured to take advantage of the lingering effects actors enjoy after participating in the games played in Spolin's \\"Improvisation for the Theater.\\"  For instance, the mindset needed for side-coaching the self, essential to succeeding at the activities in this book, does not come without exposure from an outside source.<br />However, for those who have learned the thought processes that come of Spolin-style improvisation, \\"Theater Games for the Lone Actor\\" has multiple applications.  When working in a solo position, such as a one-man show, a screen test, or an audition, using these activities in preparation can make the difference between doing well and doing exquisitely.  These activities also are useful for memorization and other scene work within a directed play, and for compensating for a lackluster director or weak co-star.<br />Many of these activities are adapted from \\"Improvisation for the Theater.\\"  Some activities that were originally presented for group work, such as Space Walk and Feeling Self With Self, recur between the covers of this slim pamphlet.  The difference lies in doing them individually, refreshing the benefit of prior group work, and also in coaching yourself, becoming aware in a more objective manner of what you're doing as an actor and how you're doing it.<br />Repetition of the concept of \\"present time\\" reinforces the almost Buddhist nature of theatrical improvisation, requiring participants to be entirely in the moment.  This is good advice for all forms of actors, since, if you're in another time and place, you're not giving the character you play the commitment it deserves.  Through long-term exposure to the activities in this book, and effort consummate to commitment, an actor can develop the ability to be in the moment on command, or even on a permanent basis.<br />This book is tiny, small enough to slip unobtrusively in a shirt pocket and have on hand to do solowarm-ups or skills exercises.  This helps allow the actor to develop while waiting for an audition, while riding on a bus, while lying in bed at night, or in any situation where time and solitude permit even a moment's concentration.<br />Highly recommended for all working and aspiring actors, \\"Theater Games for the Lone Actor\\" is the kind of book that can make all the difference between doing a good job and doing a merely good enough job.	2002-05-06
US	51031013	R346LVIXUSDQ7H	0879102691	627571003	Accents: A Manual for Actors	Books	4	106	119	N	Y	Some Problems, but Generally an Effective Learning Tool	You will not learn an accent from this book.  Let's start with that for a statement of fact.<br />An accent is integrated with the way a person speaks his or her native language.  The way a person holds his or her mouth while speaking.  This pattern is learned by imitating the sounds of speech a person hears every day between the ages of nine months and three years.  To learn an accent, you must master the way the jaw, soft palette, nasal cavity, and tongue are held in speaking with certain accents.<br />That said, you could actually learn how to hold your mouth for an accent by imitating sounds, just like a baby does.  It takes more willful effort and study as an adult, but it can be done.  And this book will give you the sounds to imitate and the structure to assume.<br />Vocal coach Robert Blumenfeld eschews the lengthy dialect monologues that are usually preferred in textbooks like this one, in favor of practice words and sentences that allow you as speaker to familiarize yourself with the structure of your vocal apparatus.  Simple hard work and repetition is the key to achieving any accent accurately, and this book, with accompanying CD, is a good way to go about it.<br />Not everyone will find this book equally useful.  Women, for example, will find this book more difficult to work with than men.  Though the printed contents are just as useful for women as for men, the audio portion may not be.  Blumenfeld presents himself speaking in the accents he's trying to convey.  Women will not find it impossible to learn an accent by imitating him, but they will have a harder time creating a more feminine-sounding variant of the accent in question.  This is especially true where it comes to certain Khosian accents and the native accents of East and Southeast Asia, where men and women vocalize differently, and accents are inflected according to gender.<br />Likewise, those interested in accents other than Euro-American will be at a loss.  These accents are treated very stintingly, and are sometimes lumped together in a broad, unfair manner, as the accents of Africa are.  However, it is a simple fact that these accents are less in demand, theatrically, than Euro-American accents, so there's less call to spend precious CD time and print space on them.<br />You may take my experience as representative, moreover, when I tell you that Blumenfeld's book can help you learn accents, but familiarity with this book does not make you a qualified dialect coach.  As it turns out, that job is actually profoundly complex, and just because you are able to speak with an accent does not mean you are able to teach it to anyone else.  Your best bet is simply to place this book in somebody's hands when they have plenty of time to practice, and wish them the best of luck.<br />Despite these problems, this book remains a fair and valuable introduction to accents.  Its structure, though it won't work for everybody, will help most people most of the time in getting the hang of the accent they desire to emulate.  Just remember, the most important part of learning a new accent is not memorizing and imitating sounds, but holding your mouth correctly, and this book's method will teach that to you if you're willing to learn.stintingly, and are sometimes lumped together in a broad, unfair manner, as the accents of Africa are.  However, it is a simple fact that these accents are less in demand, theatrically, than Euro-American accents, so there's less call to spend precious CD time and print space on them.<br />You may take my experience as representative, moreover, when I tell you that Blumenfeld's book can help you learn accents, but familiarity with this book does not make you a qualified dialect coach.  As it turns out, that job is actually profoundly complex, and just because you are able to speak with an accent does not mean you are able to teach it to anyone else.  Your best bet is simply to place this book in somebody's hands when they have plenty of time to practice, and wish them the best of luck.<br />Despite these problems, this book remains a fair and valuable introduction to accents.  Its structure, though it won't work for everybody, will help most people most of the time in getting the hang of the accent they desire to emulate.  Just remember, the most important part of learning a new accent is not memorizing and imitating sounds, but holding your mouth correctly, and this book's method will teach that to you if you're willing to learn.	2002-04-08
US	51031013	RCHML0AOXQTMM	0879100915	436017860	Swashbuckling: A Step-by-Step Guide to the Art of Stage Combat & Theatrical Swordplay - Revised & Updated E	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Excellent Primer	It is important to remember that no book ever written will adequately prepare you for participation in stage combat.  Though stage fighting is choreographed down to the instant and is tightly controlled, it remains very risky.  Many actors have been hurt very badly participating in supposedly \\"phony\\" combat.  Do not attempt to participate in stage combat without either taking a course with an SAFD-certified coach or ensuring your fight choreographer has done the same.<br />This book, however, is one of the most thorough primers available.  You cannot learn stage fighting from this book, but you can use this book to prepare yourself for what's coming when you study with an SAFD coach.  This book gives you instruction on postures, motions, workouts, acting attitudes, and more to get you started and get you in the right way of thinking and moving, preparatory to studying with a certified coach.<br />One attractive quality of this book is the amount of space it dedicates to unarmed combat.  I have encountered many coaching texts that place all the emphasis in their material on fighting with weapons, especially swords.  Unarmed combat, when mentioned, is primarily a sidelight.  This isn't wholly unfair, since sword fighting is very difficult and involves many integrated skills; sword fighting without wounding or risking a wound to your opponent or yourself is all the more difficult.  However, unarmed combat-fistfights, barroom brawls, catfights, and even physical gags in low comedy-require more skill than many people seem to realize.  If you throw a punch or kick a foot at random, somebody's going to get hurt, possibly very badly.  This book begins to teach readers how to brawl or tangle with somebody unarmed, make it look like it hurts, and walk away unscratched.<br />All in all, this is a superior book on the skills of staged combat.  To repeat, this book will not teach you how to choreograph or participate in a stage fight.  No book can do that.  If you try to stage afight without either SAFD-certified participants or an SAFD-certified trainer, injury is all too likely.  However, as a side to more strenuous coaching, Richard Lane's \\"Swashbuckling\\" is one of the better primers available to you.	2002-04-08
US	51031013	R3JFTKTY7IO2J7	081014008X	334531040	Improvisation for the Theater: A Handbook of Teaching and Directing Techniques (Drama and Performance Studies)	Books	5	84	84	N	Y	The Modern Theatrical Benchmark	It is important to realize, before purchasing \\"Improvisation for the Theater,\\" that it will not teach you the silly games and clownish humor you see on \\"Whose Line Is It Anyway?\\" Funny though many people find that show, it bears only a shirt-tail relationship to improvisation as Viola Spolin conceived of the concept.<br /><br />First of all, she probably would have been horrified to discover that many people now regard improvisation and comedy synonymous. In her system, improvisation could have been comedic, tragic, surrealistic, or anything in between. The label hung on the performance was secondary to its quality, consistency, and depth.<br /><br />In this, Spolin's classic textbook (newly updated and expanded by her son and daughter-in-law, her intellectual executors and heirs), she lays down the ins and outs of improvisation for performance. Activities listed in this book are designed to conduct a full workshop for improvisational actors. There are games listed for absolute beginners, orienting them to the demands of the stage, so there is no false expectation of prior experience. The games, moreover, are almost all adaptable to all ages, so a children's workshop won't feel you're going over their heads, and an adult workshop won't feel they're being condescended to.<br /><br />The chapters are arranged in the sequence Spolin felt would be most efficient in creating a fully-dimensional improv show that would capture audience attention and be satisfying for all involved. Not everyone will agree that this is the best sequence, and with a little time and consideration, the games can be reordered to suit an individual director's tastes. However, this should be undertaken with care -- many people have used this workshop pattern very effectively for over forty years with great success and enjoyment.<br /><br />The games, moreover, can be used individually, both in classrooms and in a theatrical directing environment. Many of the games teach important skills regarding vocal technique, character-motivated action, attention to environmental detail, and poise. Even when working with experienced actors, I have found many of these games useful in developing wholly realized characters and environments, and the group nature of the work is key in creating unity among cast members and ensuring everybody is playing off the same rules.<br /><br />I have worked with scarcely an acting coach or director who has not, at some point, used some activity from this book to achieve some goal. By having actors participate in these activities, the whole production is moved toward a unified and consistent goal, usually one that cannot be achieved by mere talking and finger-pointing. Complex variations of these games are used by improvisational troupes throughout the world, and Spolin's teachings have really been the benchmark for theatrical education and directing for nearly half a century now.<br /><br />No actor who wants to grow in skill, no acting teacher who wants to guide students toward higher ability, no director who wants to achieve results quickly and well, should ever be without this book. It is the measure of greatness in modern theatre.vocal technique, character-motivated action, attention to environmental detail, and poise. Even when working with experienced actors, I have found many of these games useful in developing wholly realized characters and environments, and the group nature of the work is key in creating unity among cast members and ensuring everybody is playing off the same rules.<br /><br />I have worked with scarcely an acting coach or director who has not, at some point, used some activity from this book to achieve some goal. By having actors participate in these activities, the whole production is moved toward a unified and consistent goal, usually one that cannot be achieved by mere talking and finger-pointing. Complex variations of these games are used by improvisational troupes throughout the world, and Spolin's teachings have really been the benchmark for theatrical education and directing for nearly half a century now.<br /><br />No actor who wants to grow in skill, no acting teacher who wants to guide students toward higher ability, no director who wants to achieve results quickly and well, should ever be without this book. It is the measure of greatness in modern theatre.	2002-04-08
US	51031013	R137VL8FULUHWH	1566563593	939333416	In Focus Haiti: A Guide to the People, Politics and Culture	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	Up-to-the-minute Information for Scholars and the Curious	Sometimes it's hard to be an American, and to look out at what we've done to the rest of the world.<br />Haiti will soon be celebrating its bicentennial of independence.  As the second-oldest nation in the Western Hemisphere and the black nation with the longest uninterrupted history, it should by rights be rich, educated, forward thinking, and a bright light for the rest of the world.  However, imperialist forces from abroad, including France, Britain, and most recently the United States of America, have colored its two centuries.  Its people have been harangued by Castro's Cuba, Trujillo's Dominican Republic, Bush and Clinton's USA, and even the wildly corrupt Duvalier administration.  Its land is stripped, its resources have been plundered, its cities are grossly overpopulated, and its seas are silted.  And yet, somehow, Haiti survives.<br />In the wake of the 1991 coup that unseated President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the 1994 US-led UN invasion that restored him to power, much news was made.  Haiti was front-page headliner material nearly every day, a prestigious international hot spot.  Names were made and broken in political spheres around the Haiti issue.  Debate ran high.  And then everything just disappeared.  Haiti merited a two-paragraph mention on page twelve if the paper needed filler, and then only in large papers that could dedicate themselves to foreign affairs.  For most of us, even those of us who maintained our religious interest in the nation, an entire nation may just as well have dropped off the face of the earth.<br />British activist Charles Arthur, whose other works on Haiti include \\"A Haitian Anthology: Lib&egrave;te,\\" identifies himself as a \\"Solidarity Activist.\\"  His latest book, \\"Haiti in Focus,\\" is subtitled \\"A Guide to the People, Politics, and Culture,\\" and it lives up to that description admirably.  For those interested, the available information is brought up to date through the middle of 2001.  Arthur details the current political struggles surrounding the election of Aristide to another term in office; he lets us know about the struggle between Protestant missionaries and vodou adherents for control of the site at which the Haitian Revolution began; and he even gives us pointers on how to tour the country.<br />This slim, easy-to-read book is deceptively clear.  It focuses on what Haiti is today, and on the forces that have made it so.  Arthur posits no blame for what's happened to the country; yet observant reading serves to point out several recurrent patterns.  Currently, the United States has been trying to micromanage the Haitian economy to the advantage of America, and indeed has been using the Monroe Doctrine as an excuse to do so for some time.  This has been happening in force through the last century, though it can be traced overtly to 1862, when the US recognized the country's sovereignty, and more covertly back to Haitian independence, when the US refused to recognize a free black nation.<br />America is not alone in this treatment, however.  Britain immediately recognized Haiti's independence, but apparently only for political advantage and access to the profitable plantations.  When the plantation economy went the way of all flesh, Britain appears to have just walked away.  France held recognition for ransom, offering it only when Haiti paid massive war indemnities that left the country in financial ruin from which it hasn't fully recovered.  The United Nations and the Organization of American States have consistently tried to co-opt Haiti's foreign policy and dictate domestic positions, and the European Union, primarily under pressure from France, is now trying to horn in on Haitian self-determination.  As Arthur explains, Haiti remains a small force, battered on all sides by winds it cannot satisfactorily resist.<br />The country is also riven internally.  Though all involved want the country to flourish and thrive, wildly dissimilar ideas persist as to what would make thiuggles surrounding the election of Aristide to another term in office; he lets us know about the struggle between Protestant missionaries and vodou adherents for control of the site at which the Haitian Revolution began; and he even gives us pointers on how to tour the country.<br />This slim, easy-to-read book is deceptively clear.  It focuses on what Haiti is today, and on the forces that have made it so.  Arthur posits no blame for what's happened to the country; yet observant reading serves to point out several recurrent patterns.  Currently, the United States has been trying to micromanage the Haitian economy to the advantage of America, and indeed has been using the Monroe Doctrine as an excuse to do so for some time.  This has been happening in force through the last century, though it can be traced overtly to 1862, when the US recognized the country's sovereignty, and more covertly back to Haitian independence, when the US refused to recognize a free black nation.<br />America is not alone in this treatment, however.  Britain immediately recognized Haiti's independence, but apparently only for political advantage and access to the profitable plantations.  When the plantation economy went the way of all flesh, Britain appears to have just walked away.  France held recognition for ransom, offering it only when Haiti paid massive war indemnities that left the country in financial ruin from which it hasn't fully recovered.  The United Nations and the Organization of American States have consistently tried to co-opt Haiti's foreign policy and dictate domestic positions, and the European Union, primarily under pressure from France, is now trying to horn in on Haitian self-determination.  As Arthur explains, Haiti remains a small force, battered on all sides by winds it cannot satisfactorily resist.<br />The country is also riven internally.  Though all involved want the country to flourish and thrive, wildly dissimilar ideas persist as to what would make this happen.  Christian missionaries, primarily Catholic and Evangelical Protestant, have brought their faith to the country, but even Jesus Himself hasn't preserved the country.  Aristide and his coalition have concrete ideas for how to use the government to resolve problems, but his plans are controversial and have stirred up strong negative feelings.  Education is usually severely inadequate because of the lack of skilled teachers, disagreements over the importance of French, and the high cost of schooling in a poor nation.  Meanwhile, poverty is swelling, illiteracy remains rampant, and nothing is being done about it.<br />However, in Arthur's estimation, Haiti remains a culturally vibrant land, a noble nation resisting the homogeneity of Western-styled \\"globalization.\\"  The native art, music, and religion of the land are the most African in the Western Hemisphere, and are a celebration of life in the face of poverty.  A full-color photo spread in the middle of the book shows the beauty that accrues to everything in the country-the way a tap-tap driver will paint rainbows on the side of his vehicle; the way rara musicians will dance down the street during a festival.  Though this is a country damaged and struggling, Arthur makes plain, this is not a country to give up on, not a country to permit to die.<br />This book is detailed enough to appeal to those intimately interested in Haiti, either those who appreciate the whole nation or those interested in one or two aspects.  At the same time, it's clear enough in style and structure to reach out to readers who are being newly introduced to Haiti, and to those who know only the horror stories that recur in motion pictures and the news.  Though it will date quickly, for the moment it stands as a strong primer for the condition that is Haiti and a land working for healing in a world that only wants to use it as a tool.	2002-04-07
US	51031013	R2I4O2ZHQ1LN2Q	0759550247	88018604	Travels	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Classic Redux	There's a real risk in writing science fiction, that the author's vision will be OTBE'd - Overtaken By Events.  As new science unfolds or time passes in an unexpected manner, a novel or short work that's exceedingly well written and visionary will suddenly become obsolete, despite being a masterwork.  Many of the best SF works of the last two generations have suffered this fate when it turned out we weren't going to colonize the moon in the last decade of the Twentieth Century, or that cancer wouldn't be cured, or that Einstein's Laws really do work.<br />That's why it's reassuring when a story like \\"Travels,\\" a novel by freshman author Jerry J. Davis, hits the stands.  Unashamedly drawing on the standards of classic literature while creating a story that is truly his own, Davis skillfully crafts a satisfying novel that revives the style and quality of the masterworks for a new generation.<br />The most obvious influence on Davis' story is the day-after-tomorrow SF of Philip K. Dick.  Like \\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep,\\" the beginning of the story is a near-future dystopian society in which the minor annoyances of today are the handicaps of the new life.  An addictive TV network has been created that absorbs viewers to the point that they forget to eat or sleep.  Christianity has been co-opted by a feel-good sect that has even re-written the Bible, taking out all the hard theology and self-sacrifice.  Social dissatisfaction has escalated to urban terrorism, and many war veterans are now trying to undercut the nation for which then once fought.<br />Another influence, this more in style than content, is Neal Stephenson.  Like Stephenson's classic novel \\"Snow Crash,\\" \\"Travels\\" features disparate storylines and separate characters who all come together in an almost orgasmic conclusion.  Dodd comes to loathe TV when the Travels network eats his girlfriend's brain; Toby, a devotee of the new lite Christianity, is so enrapt in his faith that he doesn't know his daughter is pregnant; the daughter, Savina, who loves her unborn child and escapes a state-mandated abortion; a band of urban terrorists with a messianic leader; Saul, the executive responsible for the Travels network, who tries to run from the fact that his daughter is a mutant and his wife is having a lesbian affair.<br />All of these storylines orbit the revelation that Jesus Christ is returning bodily to Earth.  According to lite Christianity, this is not the end of the world, but the beginning of a new Golden Age.  Dodd, who still reads the old Bible, wants to debunk the Second Coming.  Toby wants to embrace it.  Savina joins the terrorists in sabotaging it.  Saul has to compete with it in the ratings.<br />The sophistication of the writing is so subtle that the book glides underneath the eye of the reader without raising much resistance.  It's an entertaining read for fans of popular science fiction.  The straightforward narrative style and short chapters ensure that even the most distractible reader will be able to keep up with what's going on.  However, Davis effectively addresses a plethora of important issues, including religion, family, and work, while also touching on war and technology.<br />Technology does indeed play an important part in this story, but even the bells and whistles serve to contribute to a story about human relationships.  The Travels TV network persists underneath all events, but the story isn't about Travels, it's about the people who watch its programming.  Machinery at work is part of an early chapter, but it serves not to talk about the systems (which are stintingly described) but rather how human beings and their relationships are affected.<br />Davis effectively handles multiple viewpoints and multiple agendas.  Anarchist terrorists are as fully dimensional as an unwed teenage mother.  Some of the names are a little obvious - Saul has to compete with Jesus; a terrorist is named Danny Marauder - but there is good symbolism in the narrative.<br />Parts of the book could have stood for a little more concrete description.  The music that permeates the Travels network is described as hypnotic, but not really given any degree of detail.  Is it jazz, blues, classical?  New-age synthesizer la-la music?  Likewise, when Dodd scoffs at some factory machines that have replaced friends of his, we are only told they are \\"two spidery robots.\\"  When possessed with loathing, people often find specific traits to hate; are they too thin, too methodical, too ugly?  These details might have been desirable to grasp and internalize Dodd's emotions.<br />Still, the novel is fast-paced, readable, and lucid.  The end of the story offers hope for a world that has been too long dominated by the hopeless.  Though mildly imperfect, the story is at highly enjoyable and thoughtful.<br />The publisher, Time Warner subsidiary iPublish.com, has made no real effort to publicize this book.  This is a shame, because its use of classic SF styling to tell a current story offers promise at least to those who appreciate quality pop literature.  However, classics are often overlooked in their own time; perhaps, as time passes, the merit of this story will reveal itself.  Here's hoping, because if this is a freshman effort, I'm eager to see what Davis is able to do with this book in the future.	2001-11-09
US	51031013	R16TFK5ZH8TBUY	0563538228	569950638	Doctor Who: Endgame	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Doctor Does the Cold War	This novel is adequate for a historical spy novel.  That needs to be stated before anything else.  Set in the early days of the Cold War, paperwork falls into the hands of an immigrant from the Communist Bloc, who tries to give it to the British but fails.  The paperwork confirms the existence of a mysterious Third Force trying to play the Eastern and Western blocs against one another for sheer amusement.  The inclusion of historical figure Kim Philby, a notorious traitor who was playing both the British and the Soviets himself, is a very skillful stroke.<br />As a Doctor Who novel, it seems forced.  The Doctor seems to have been included simply perforce because Terrance Dicks is supposed to be a Doctor Who novelist.  He has plenty of opportunity for globetrotting -- in the course of the novel, he makes it to France, the United States (where he meets President Truman), and Russia (where he rescues Joseph Stalin from evil influence).<br />The problem is, this could just as easily be any schlameel who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and got blackmailed into involvement in the Cold War.  Apart from his usual acumen, there's no reason the character should be the Doctor.  His inclusion seems like a market-oriented contrivance that neither contributes to, nor detracts from, the novel.<br />The short version is, this is a good spy novel.  The historical elements of the Cold War are very well done and the book is fun to read.  However, it feels like it's only a Doctor Who novel because the author was under contract.  It offers nothing new to the Doctor Who mythos.  It detracts nothing either, so there's no reason it shouldn't be read; but there's no real reason for the character in it to be the Doctor.	2001-08-17
US	51031013	R276EMCP1RYXHM	0563555998	67447501	Short Trips and Side Steps (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It's Been (Sur)Real!	This collection of short stories turns a lot of conventions on its head by ignoring them.  The Doctor from the two movies staring Peter Cushing is just as real as the others.  The Ninth Doctor has a history.  The Fourth Doctor and Romana have a thing going on.  The Doctor can be presented as a parody of himself.  The wildly separated stories present views not only of the Doctor from television, but the Doctor from the future and parallel Doctors.  There are enough views of all the different Doctors that not every story will be equally enjoyable to all people.  (Thus four rather than five stars.)  However, every long-term fan of Doctor Who will find enough in this book to hold their attention and keep them coming back for more.  It's worth getting.  Just bear in mind that you'll be disappointed a few times.	2001-06-07
US	51031013	R3PNZP8XRO05K8	0553259628	830064924	Paul Harvey's the Rest of the Story	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Hidden History	As Napoleon indicated, History is the lies upon which we've all agreed.  There is no such thing as a work of history that doesn't leave some important element out.  Partly that's to make history more palatable for a new generation -- who really wants to know about dentistry in the Colonial era when we're reading about George Washington and his false teeth?  No matter what the reason, though, once an item is left out of history it tends to disappear permanently.<br />Unless Paul Harvey Jr. gets his hands on it.<br />Paul Harvey Jr, who writes the short vignettes for his father's radio show &quot;The Rest of the Story,&quot; has a gift for uncovering forgotten facts.  Did you know there was another Three Stooges?  Did you know Jack Benny was invited to join the Marx Brothers?  Did you know one of our Founding Fathers kept his wife chained in the basement because of persistent congenital madness?  I hadn't known that.<br />This book is an incomplete collection of Harvey's vignettes for his father's show.  Some are published under the name &quot;Paul Aurendt,&quot; and if you can find them, jump on them with both feet.  However, this book provides a good primer for the forgotten corners of history, and also allows you to own copies of the vignettes Harvey has made famous over the last 25 years.  One can only hope that Harvey's example will inspire more historians to investigate the forgotten corners of history and find what's been otherwise forgotten.  I'd buy more of these books if more of them were available.	2001-06-07
US	51031013	R1X3HMOR92AXG0	0321042573	772272541	A History of Asia (3rd Edition)	Books	4	17	22	N	N	It's a Textbook	Let's not forget this fact: this is a college textbook.  If you're looking for something that will be interesting reading or will keep you entertained when the television is off, you don't want this book.  You will be overwhelmed by rafts of facts and will not be able to digest it all.  Find another book.<br />That said, this book is very good if you're interested in a thorough, exhaustive history of Asia.  Murphey focusses on themes and meaning rather than lists of names and dates.  Memorisation and quotation of established facts are not the order of the day.  Probably an ideal introductory history of Monsoon Asia, this book makes a good gateway to further in-depth study of the area.<br />That said, it's not a perfect book.  Some broad claims are made about the region, such as the claim that Asian societies are older and possess greater sophistication.  This is inaccurate -- after all, Egyptian civilization is two thousand years older, and the Fertile Crescent civilization is one thousand years older, than the civilizations of China and the Indus River valley.  True, China was at one time the most powerful and sophisticated on Earth, but it is no longer, because it placed greater value on social stability than on development and growth.  These claims are surely brash and possibly offensive to those who have struggled to make other civilizations advance beyond a crude level.<br />Barring that sort of thing, however, this book is a good scholastic introduction to the history of Monsoon Asia.  It will bore casual readers, keep that in mind.  However, if you are interested in an in-depth study of the themes that continue to color Asia, this is your book.	2001-06-05
US	51031013	R2A41ENYQJ018U	056353804X	967923722	Independence Day (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The Doctor As Superman	There is plenty of adventure and derring-do in this story, that can't be denied.  The hero and his tag-alongs travel between worlds on vessels that aren't fit to move livestock, there's a major civil war to overthrow a megalomaniac tyrant, attempts to solve an insoluble conundrum, and more adventures that would allow by to use big words.  It's a good adventure.<br />However, I quickly grow tired of the Doctor as an unbeatable Superman figure.  He is immune to a nerve toxin.  He drinks poison and just goes into hibernation.  He never gets tired or hungry, he never needs a bath or a shave, and his clothes never stink.  Part of the fun of the series for several years has been how the Doctor gets himself into fixes where it looks like he's going to be done in, but he manages to pull himself out through his skill and quick wits.  If nothing really affects him like it would us mere mortals, where's the tension?<br />Still, it's a pretty good adventure on the whole, with tension revolving around the attempts of the other characters to evade the influences that the Doctor can just shrug off.  I can't say it's a &quot;can't-miss&quot; but it's definitely a pretty fun read.	2000-12-24
US	51031013	R3RENUFOH7H02S	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Cyberpunk Becomes Funny	In a future America where everything is for rent -- the Army, the Police, the Highway system -- and the only thing that works efficiently is pizza delivery (because it's monopolized by the Mafia) Hiro Protagonist is a freelance hacker who also happens to be the only one standing between the computer-based Metaverse and a horrible new drug called Snow Crash. As if this isn't enough, he owes the Mafia the cost of replacing the pizza delivery car he wrecked, and he has to pull Y.T.'s fat out of the fire after the Skateboard Kourier delivers his last pizza for him, saving him from the punishment of the Mob. <br />If you go down to Silicon Valley and ask anyone wearing this year's model of pocket protector, I'll bet you even money they're there because they read Snow Crash. This book saved the dying cyberpunk genre by giving it a sense of humour. Besides, though the term &quot;cyberspace&quot; comes from the writings of William Gibson, the current concept of cyberspace comes from Stephenson's vision of the Metaverse. Every geek in the Valley read this, and many of them are computer-hacking now because they want to grow up to be Hiro Protagonist.	2000-12-10
US	51031013	R2AN65IU7ZELZC	0396075088	905429233	M*A*S*H Mania	Books	1	2	12	N	N	Beating a dead surgeon	By this time the novelty of MASH had gone by the wayside.  The movie had been nominated for an Academy Award and the TV series was in the works.  Hooker was trying his damnedest to continue milking the cash cow, but its  time was long past.  You have to give him credit for trying, but taken out  of the wartime scenario, the MASH characters become instantly forgettable.	2000-04-14
US	51031013	R17OX1ORX48Z0	0446303372	347390268	Shout: The Beatles in Their Generation	Books	4	10	16	N	N	In the glut of books about the Beatles...	...this volume stands out.  Complete, unsparing, and willing to call bullhockey where it sees bullhockey.  Confrontational where it needs to be, sycophantic where it serves the purpose of truth, not falling into either  big trap: heavy-handedly condemning everything from days gone by and  unstintingly praising the successes of youth.  Fair and fierce.  Good both  for fans in long standing and for the uninitiated who simply know a few of  the songs.	2000-04-14
US	51031013	R1R8CE9YDW3BUX	0517637537	213148459	A Treasury of Best-Loved Poems	Books	3	13	20	N	N	good for poetry neophytes	The greatest failing of this book is that, if you didn't look on poetry as a burden in high school, you've probably already read this stuff.  Satisfactory compliation of well-known poesy that puts it at your  fingertips if you need something on the fly for a love letter, but other  than that, it's best bought by someone who hasn't read too much poetry.	2000-04-14
US	51031013	R1NVODP1XRFHML	014005121X	55622467	The Death of Woman Wang	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Imperfect, but Worthwhile	A little hard to follow sometimes, and the author could have artfully trimmed it in a couple of places -- after all, it was written for a lay audience, so an excess of historical details can be distracting.  Still, it provides a glimpse into  a little-known portion of history, and it's  comprehensible to a general audience.  As I say, imperfect, but worthwhile.	2000-04-03
US	51031013	R27URLZIPUX4DV	0441809359	316681508	Time Travelers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Cream of the crop from a good magazine	A well-trod theme, this book chooses the best stories about time travelling from the first decade and change of IAsfm and compiles them for your benefit.  Every angle has been done before, of course, but that's what  makes this one so good -- you know what you're getting yourself into and  you can ride that boat as long as she'll float.  Light a fire, chill the  champagne, and settle in for a good evening's read.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	RUIC8FK5FQAAX	0786706929	155858383	The Mammoth Book of British Kings and Queens (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Susses out the facts from the baloney	I found this book of particular interest because I could go through it and compare the historical records of kings with the records left by Shakespeare.  Macbeth, for example, was well-loved, and Richard III  probably wasn't all that bad.<br />This book includes references to mythology  and legend: there's an entry for Arthur, for example.  It doesn't, however,  accept that things are true because someone says so; it attempts to  distinguish between fact and fancy.  It's handy in that sense to have this  book close at hand when reading historical fiction set in early  England.<br />It's written from a definate British perspective, obvious  because it cut's George III more slack than an American book would.  Still,  considering it's their monarchy, I guess they get to write the  book.<br />Interesting both to history buffs and laymen.  Not to be missed by  Anglophiles.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	R1GXGECJ7HEWPK	0426194578	111070367	Doctor Who Snakedance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Actually better than the episode	This book has a certain punch the TV episode lacks.  Usually, with these adaptations, it's the other way around, but in this case, unhindered by the shaky cardboard sets and clunky special effects that dogged the episode,  this one shines.  If you can find a copy grab it.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	R1W55S4KRFLCOS	9991937935	451159849	The Illyrian Adventure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Different from Alexander's other childrens' books	Though Lloyd Alexander's obituary will remember him as a middle-years childrens' writer, it will probably mention his &quot;Chronicles of Prydain&quot; and neglect this book, a witty, sharp-edged young adult  adventure.  Holly Vesper, blessed with curiosity appropriate for her tender  years, takes a notion to find a lost set of mechanical warriors.  The  reader gets a glimpse into the workings of the mind of the anthropologist  and scholar, but alsos gets an eyeful of enjoyable prose.  Good for adults,  too.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	R2AZIIGWXTKFRJ	0441054986	677952363	The Best of Isaac Asimovs SF Magazine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	There's a reason they call it the best	A collection of punchy, enjoyable science-fiction stories from IAsfm's first decade and change, running the gambit from hard science to character-driven to simple dumb fun.  Only further reason to believe that  the Good Doctor was wise in putting his name on the magazine.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	R1BQKWLXPQWMWH	1853673617	914428429	Invasion: The Alternate History of the German Invasion of England, July 1940	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Very Good, but Sometimes Hard to Follow	This book presents a believable vision of a German invasion of Britain at a time when her economy hadn't yet shifted to wartime industry and she was at her most vulnerable.  Complaints have been raised in a prior review that  it lacks military accuracy, but as a lay reader I found it enjoyable, and I  couldn't find the historical faults on a bet.<br />That said, I didn't get as  much out of it as I could have.  It was obviously written to be read by a  military historian, or at least someone with more of a backing in military  history than I'm blessed with.  Technical details that Macksey throws out  without a backward glance seem to assume I know one WWII fighter plane from  another instead of being a dreamer out for an afternoon read of a fanciful  speculation.<br />This book is for military historians at heart.  Civilians  won't be unable to get it -- I enjoyed it, after all -- but may find  themselves lost from time to time.  If you have any friends familiar with  military history, enlist their help and you may have an easier time of it.	2000-03-28
US	51031013	R314YK5BUB02FU	0563405910	71465567	The Infinity Doctors (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	It certainly has its virtues	The question I keep reading is, which Doctor is this?  Who cares?  Part of the point is that you can insert the first, eighth, or a future doctor into it and read it with equal aplomb.  Parkin has created a view of the Doctor  that's different for each person reading it.  What I see and what you see  will never be the same thing in this book.<br />That said, the book provides  only a sliver of hope that it's the first Doctor, since it says he  travelled and stopped travelling; nor does the eighth doctor seem likely,  since he's described as short-haired and young -- and when young people  grow their hair, they generally only cut it when they get older.<br />Now that  I've said my piece in that matter, I have to insist that it doesn't matter.   The story is interesting and worthwhile, and it provides as varied a view  of the Doctor as there are varied readers.  Maybe not for readers who like  to see new views of an established Doctor, for more experimental and  open-minded readers, it certainly has its virtues.	2000-03-27
US	51031013	RZYEV1ZXXEJ9L	0452260833	894206307	The Sandbox and the Death of Bessie Smith	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not Unexpected From Albee	These plays are drenched in the condemnation that we've come to expect from Edward Albee.  &quot;The Sandbox&quot; condemns his parents (his mother was more recently condemned in &quot;Three Tall Women&quot;),  &quot;The Death of Bessie Smith&quot; condemns the white establishment of  the South in the pre-Civil Rights Movement days, and &quot;Fam and  Yam&quot; condemns the old order in literature.  Albee's world is soaked in  doom and filled twice over in hatred for the established order.  The only  fault is the same one that's been brought against Bob Dylan and Sam  Peckinpah -- if the establishment had to go, what's going to replace it?	2000-03-22
US	51031013	R3HTMP2XI4413W	0563555653	271265528	More Short Trips: A Collection of Short Stories (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Like a mixed bag of jelly babies.  Avoid the green ones.	You places your bets, you takes your chances.  No one can get it right every time, and not everyone can get it right just one time.  The stories in this book are of mixed nature and quality, throwing together every  incarnation of the Doctor to date with most of his companions -- and, in  the case of one story in particular, a version of the Doctor I don't think  we've encountered yet (did any TV Doctor have a companion named Anna, or  did I just miss that one?).  It's a grab bag of authors and stories, worth  reading in most cases (the two stories titled &quot;Missing&quot; are to be  missed, though).  Not every story is for everyone but then, not everyone is  for every story.	2000-03-18
US	51031013	R1P04DC01GEVST	0452271738	699709682	V Is for Vampire: The A-Z Guide to Everything Undead	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Incomplete, and Biased Besides	This book gives short shrift to anything vampire-related that doesn't interest the author personally.  It also, as a previous reviewer noted,  paints vampire afficianadoes as sexual deviants and credits too much to the  Freudian idea that all forms of personal expression are rooted in sexual  misgivings.  Not of the slightest interest to anyone who REALLY wants to  know what vampires are all about.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R1MPCR4NO0856F	0316547832	418531763	With a Little Help from My Friends: The Making of Sgt. Pepper	Books	4	3	4	N	N	You place your bets, you takes your chances	This book isn't perfect.  As a previous reviewer has remarked, it's inconsistent with Martin's previous books, not to mention other books that have been written about the Beatles.  Still, it provides a contrasting  point of view, and as such is worth looking over.  Nobody's perfect, and  Martin admits in so many words that his memory isn't ironclad.  Just don't  bet the ranch on what Martin has to say.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R2L5DBSYGHME4A	0871136864	799186474	The Bachelor Home Companion: A Practical Guide to Keeping House Like a Pig (O'Rourke, P. J.)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	So True You Wonder How He Saw Your Apartment	O'Rourke has always written incisive and perceptive material, and this, his first book, points up the &quot;always&quot; part.  Dorm rooms, bachelor pads, teenagers' rooms -- they're all the same when you come down  to it, and for the same reason -- people who aren't answerable to anyone  else (or don't think they aren't) live like they aren't answerable to  anyone else!  O'Rourke is married with a kid now, and if he lived like he's  written about here, he probably did it to get out of his own former house.   But then, as he puts it, &quot;We're all bachelors now, strangers in a home  we never made.&quot;	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R1MC5AP3AYYIPH	0671698605	409735272	The Devil's Day	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Faust ain't got nothing on this modern retelling	The late James Blish was interested in what made humans &quot;go,&quot; and he used his position as a writer of paperback science-fiction to examine the underpinnings of human desire.  In this one, a man is so greedy  for illicit profits that he contracts with a sorcerer to call up EVERY  demon he's signed a blood contract with, more than seventy in all, to stir  up conflict and violence.  Well-researched where it comes to the diabloic  material and believable where the human interactions are concerned.  Originally written as two novels, which must have been very short indeed --  my combined volume is very slim and wouldn't do to level a wobbly table.  Enjoyable both by those with an established interest in the occult and  those who are simply interested in a good read.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R38FIFG3SPINX5	0862413842	164367931	The Search for the Stone of Destiny	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lots of hypotheses, no real answers	The author makes a good case that the Stone of Destiny that England returned to Scotland in 1996 (basically a doomed effort by Prime Minister John Major to cadge Scottish votes) is not the genuine article.  The author  is unable to posit where the real thing might be, though there is no lack  of differing ideas.  I tend to agree that the stone every monarch of  England, Great Britain, and the U.K. was crowned on for seven centuries is  phoney baloney, and I even guardedly agree that the Irish people might be a  lost tribe of Israel, as Gerber suggests (anyone wonder where the Ark of  the Covenant might be?  When was the last time anyone took a sonogram under  the high hill at Tara?).  Some of the references will be too obscure for  those who don't already know something about Scottish history, but a  general audience might appreciate most of the book.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R33COBQ9KSPG7P	0316103098	427758281	Bloom County Babylon: Five Years of Basic Naughtiness	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Worthwhile Overview	This book provides a worthy overview of the first five years of Breathed's Bloom County comic strip.  Some of the material was previously published  elsewhere, but this isn't a merely self-congradulatory coffee-table book,  there's new material in here that's found nowhere else.  You are able to  witness Breathed's maturation as an artist and writer, most obviously  pointed up in the increasing sophistication in the way he draws his  characters, and in the manner in which he drifts away from aping  &quot;Doonesbury,&quot; a comic that, like Bloom County, would do well to  retire while it's still worth reading.  Not unimpeachable, but surely worth  reading.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	RSELRNGG23516	155970005X	749766791	Storyteller	Books	3	11	55	N	N	Confrontational and accusatory	Silko has no shortage of opinions to share, mostly on how her people have been put down through the ages.  She's not wrong -- Native Americans have indeed been done a great deal of dirt through the years -- but her style is  accusatory and confrontational, not likely to win many converts to her  cause.  Read and enjoy for a point of view outside the mainstream, but  expect to be offended by it if you were born white.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R3M5VGK4YS7H0	0679734627	972864456	The American Night: The Writings of Jim Morrison, Vol. 2	Books	1	4	36	N	N	An Abject Failure As Art	Morrison wrote rafts of &quot;poetry,&quot; but when it was published in his own lifetime, he had to pay good money for the privelege.  This volume demonstrates why.  The song lyrics included are worthwhile but lack any  depth without the wraparound effect of the music.  The poetry contained  herein is derivative of Ginsberg and Kerouac without capturing the meaning  or depth those two towering greats injected into deceptively simple words.   Morrison did most of his writing drunk -- sometimes strung out on yohimbe  -- and you can tell.  Like most &quot;artists&quot; who write or compose  under the influence of chemicals, he thought he was greater than the  finished product shows he actually was.  Morrison once promised to abjure  all art except his music, and we would all have been richly rewarded if he  had done so and stuck with his strengths.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R33HP9T15QNRQH	0312100116	87202709	The Slicing Edge of Death	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Plausible Hypothesis	It's hard to say if the hypothesis Judith Cook puts forward for the death of Shakespeare's contemporary Christopher Marlowe is true, but it's definitely plausible.  Marlowe was a great playwrite -- if he hadn't died  young, he may well have exceeded Shakespeare in the modern English-lauguage  canon -- and his early, violent death was a blow to literature.  If even  half of what Cook posits as possible reasons and modes of his death are  true, the man was an early model of James Bond, and it's very edifying to  think this might be how the man died.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R2DK4US1UVMTDL	0910043310	830913267	Saturday Night at the Pahala Theatre	Books	5	3	9	N	N	Maybe Not For Everyone	This book, written in the &quot;Pidgin&quot; dialect of Hawaii (actually an embryonic creole language), would appear to be written in shoddy grammar to most &quot;mainlanders.&quot;  Still, it provides an outlook into race  and gneder relations in Hawaii, and is a revealing glimpse into the mind of  its author, Lois-Ann Yamanaka.  The language is foul and the themes are  disturbing, but I think that's the author's point.  This is Yamanaka's  first book and lacks the maturity and authority of her later novels (q.v.),  but for a freshman effort, it's decidedly worth taking a look at.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	RK84SYZZWRL75	0441003486	667858391	Blood Music	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Different From The Short Story	It has been pointed out that this novel isn't perfect.  Of course not.  Greg Gear was new to the business when he turned his short story of the same name (found in the compliation TANGENTS) into a full-length novel.  In  the story, the concept of self-aware microorganisms remaking the human body  was presented as the end of the world through misery, while in the novel it  leads humanity to a higher level of existence.  It's not technically  accurate and has a lot of omissions where it comes to the hard science, so  maybe genetic engineers should keep their distance.  To casual readers,  though, it's very entertaining and thought-provoking, not to be tossed  aside lightly.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R6EJDRH5AG6Y7	0671762206	360358512	Cinematography	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not Intended For Mere Hobbyists	This book is written for committed students of the filmic arts who are willing to put heart, soul, and wallet into the process of learning  filmmaking.  Technically literate, savvy, and still readable by a neophyte,  this book makes comprehensible the mysteries of an art whose main  practicioners have otherwise tried to make look harder than it is.  If  you're going to follow the precepts in this book, however, expect to part  with a minimum of $25,000 before you shoot your first frame.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R4ZBVGXHGMHY5	051759384X	507686196	Tooth Imprints On A Corn Dog	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not Really Based On &quot;Jokes&quot;	The reviewer who gave this book only one star seems to have been anticipating a great number of punchlines in this book.  There aren't that many.  The book isn't based on &quot;jokes&quot; as such but on wry, pithy  obsevations of the world at large, seen through the lens of Leyner's sense  of the absurd.  If you want &quot;jokes,&quot; there are plenty of books  like that out there.  This book is not for a general audience anyway -- it  takes a special outlook to even appreciate this book -- but for those with  the mind set to appreciate this kind of humor, while it may not be  falling-down funny, it is enjoyable.	2000-03-16
US	51031013	R1ZPT4DGJQVU7A	0802132758	512368592	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead	Books	5	55	60	N	N	It takes a certain outlook	A previous reviewer condemned this book as being derivative, poorly written, and -- most scandalous of all -- unfunny.  This play, however, takes a certain kind of outlook to enjoy.  It would be nice if everyone could get the same benefits from the play as everyone else.  That's not  going to happen, however.  One thing we CAN depend on is that the point  remains the same.  This is the only existentialist play apart from _Waiting  For Godot_ that even has pretensions of wit.  Since it's a known fact that  people learn more when they're laughing, it makes it easier to convey the  play's inner message of whether we are free as individuals, whether we are  capable of making our own decisions apart from our society, and whether  that freedom even matters once a decision has been made by (for?) us.  Worth reading, but not everyone will be equally entertained.	2000-03-14
US	51031013	R20925HG5ZTSV0	0815323034	406740699	The New Arthurian Encyclopedia: New edition (Garland Reference Library of the Humanities)	Books	3	19	31	N	N	Good, but huge	This work's primary selling point is that it's very complete.  And its biggest drawback is that . . . it's very complete.  There's more material in this volume than you can ever put to use.  You come away from a straight read feeling overwhelmed, and you come away from a skimming or a search by  subject feeling like you missed something.  Still, if you're looking for  specific material on something relating to King Arthur, this is probably  your best bet.  If you're looking to be entertained by the Arthurian story,  buy yourself a copy of The Once And Future King.	2000-03-14
US	51031013	R2170JRLJA04G5	0517491060	892044740	Adventures in Time and Space	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Complete, but dated	This book is a period piece.  My book-club edition has a bullet-shaped spaceship in the cover art, a sure sign of a mistaken notion what science is, and by extension what science fiction is.  Still, it's enjoyable, and you can't fault some of its inclusions, no matter how old they are --  specifically, it was in this book that I first read Asimov's  &quot;Nightfall,&quot; a book that will stand the test of time for a long  time to come, I'm sure.	2000-03-14
US	51031013	R18WCGQNFJD9GY	0871137194	565870539	Eat the Rich: A Treatise on Economics	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Remember your high-school economics textbook?	Remember your high-school economics textbook? Me neither. Dry, dull, with all the punch and pizazz of flat beer. No, that's not right, flat beer at least still gives you a buzz. Wow, there's nothing as flat as a high school economics textbook, is there?<br />That's part of what makes this book so interesting. Witty, observant, and based on observation of how economics actually works in the real world, not upon baloney pulled out of a hat. You can see how various forms of economic systems work, based not upon weak-water news reports, but a man who actually went there and figured out how things were happening, and why.<br />One recurrent complaint I've heard is that P.J. maligns the British for turning Hong Kong over to China.  How could they not, critics say, when they only leased Hong Kong for 99 years?  But they didn't lease Hong Kong for 99 years.  The city was awarded to Britain in the Treaty of Nanjing in 1849.  The New Territories, a patch of mainland territory, was leased to Britain for agricultural purposes, but was eventually built up.  When the lease on the New Territories was up, China declared their intent to reclaim the entire city, and the British, who haven't exactly been a phenomenal military power since they used themselves up in World War II, had no choice but to acquiesce.<br />Sadly, I have to admit O'Rourke is losing his edge. He once found no such thing as a sacred cow, but now there ARE some things he doesn't consider fair game, free-market economics and libertarianism foremost among them. Still, he cuts through the bullhockey in a way those who want to teach us our economic philosophies too often fail to do effectively. A good primer in modern economics -- in ALL its ugly, bitching, querulous forms.	2000-03-13
US	51031013	R3PXPPBT5JG9UC	0446519006	191779477	As Time Goes By: A Novel of Casablanca	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not an abject failure	This book is blessed with an interesting storyline and uses historical references quite well to tie itself into World War Two.  There's one basic problem, however.  Its success hinges upon Rick following Ilsa through  Portugal to London, which in my estimetion devalues his self-sacrifice at  the end of the movie Casablanca.  The ending of the movie is valueless, in  my opinion, without Rick having to knowingly give up Ilsa in favor of the  greater cause, but herein he's simply separated from her for a little  while.  Worth skipping if you want to keep the mystique of the movie alive  in your mind.	2000-03-13
US	51031013	R3RYWDS3ITOWRL	0563555823	473147306	Interference Book Two (Dr. Who Series)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	re: the review &quot;Where's the Doctor?&quot;	I need to comment on my previous review in light of having read the second volume.  Many seeming omissions were remedied, and it was made clear where the Doctor was being held prisoner.  Many of the faults of the first book were redeemed in this second volume.<br />I'm not changing my rating, though.  The author, Lawrence Miles, writes with the smugness of a toddler on a pot,  knowingly altering the setting of the Doctor Who continuum with apparent  intent to upset as many fans as possible.  Much has been made in previous  reviews of the fact that the regeneration from the thrid to the fourth  Doctor is changed in this novel; most fail to point out that Miles knows  he's changing the history and has a supporting villain gloat over her  success in doing so.  But still, this is an alteration of an intrinsic part  of the Doctor's continuum -- the Doctor himself -- and as such should be  roundly condemned.<br />Miles in doing this acknowledges he's probably setting  up for a transformation of the eighth Doctor.  This is the smugness I was  just describing -- thinking he can change an existing character with  impunity, and not only with impunity but retoractively.  If this is the  beginning of a setup for a retooled release of the television series with  an all-new first Doctor, I can forgive Miles his rash behavior.  If this is  just Miles being smug and self-gratifying, however, the man should be taken  out and slapped into submission.	2000-03-07
US	51031013	R26I9D7MD1RW00	0312025920	86100955	Jekyll, Alias Hyde	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Make Up Your Own Mind	This book is written assuming the reader has already read Robert Louis Stevenson's _The Strange Case of Doctor Jeckyll and Mister Hyde,_ one of the classics of horror/science fiction.  It's an interesting companion  volume in which the author picks apart Stevenson's assertion that the two  men, Jeckyll and Hyde, are the same individual.  Every reader has to make  up their own mind whether they buy the argument, but it's incontrovertable  that Donald Thomas makes a good case.	2000-02-28
US	51031013	R132VY5D59UC86	093440500X	119875571	Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds	Books	5	3	4	N	N	There is nothing new under the sun	Especially of interest in this volume is the history of the Mississippi scheme.  Read and compare it to the events of the so-called Whitewater scandal, when Arkansas governor Bill Clinton lost his shirt in land  speculation, and tell me there's anything new under the sun.	2000-02-28
US	51031013	R340DUCTLYU2XI	0688105955	523960316	Brain Child: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Young Feller had much to offer.	The previous reviewer went into a great degree of detail into both the novel and its author, so I won't bore you to tears trying to recount everything.  Suffice to say, the characterizations are very vivid, and the  science-fictional elements, though not very detailed, are convincing.  Parts of the exposition are a little underdone -- Turner was obviously more  interested in the payoff than in the setup -- and I'm curious to know more  about the works of art that are so captivating that they can actually  hypnotize the viewer and cause them to lose track of reality.  Turner  obviously skimped here to let the reader's imagination design whatever work  of art it wanted, but at least a little of the nature would have been  handy.  Still, it's a convincing and readable novel that the average  reader, even a neophyto to SF, could get through quite easily.  Highly  recommended if you can get your hands on a copy, and I hope it comes out of  the moratorium soon so I can give copies as gifts.	2000-02-25
US	51031013	R3VOJRKBKNDUZJ	014018371X	751067545	Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	This book was declared one of the best...	...of the twentieth century, and it's easy to see why.  I was introduced to the book by way of the BBC television production, which I recommend as a good companion piece, since it takes a different perspective than the book.  The TV camera, after all, can't get into the minds of the characters and  reveal to us just what they're thinking.  On the other hand, Conrad chose  not to focus on the more visual aspects of the story, the aspects the BBC  was able to bring to us in the clearest manner.  Combining the two creates  a much more thorough-going picture than either could create alone.<br />Joseph  Conrad obviously had a problem with endings -- he wanted to tie his stories  up entirely too neatly, and in this one he does that by killing of the  eponymous character (I'm not giving anything important away by saying  that).  Still, the focus of the novel is on what happens in the middle, not  on the events that bring everything to an end, and for an insight into the  minds of ordinary people thrust into the center of events bigger than  themselves (though they don't know them to be bigger than themselves) this  is an exemplary work.	2000-02-25
US	51031013	RR8NE5NGZDUR6	0563405635	488874189	The Eight Doctors (Dr. Who Series)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Re: the review &quot;Call and response&quot;	I wish to amend my review of last October.  When I wrote it I hadn't read any other Doctor Who novels and had only recently reawakened my interest in the setting.  On a second read after re-acquainting myself with the  backstory, I find this novel sorely lacking.  It's disproportionately  uneven -- Terrence Dicks obviously is more interested in the third, fourth,  and sixth Doctors than any others, and the treatment of the seventh Doctor  is badly deficient -- and little is revealed, either about the eighth  Doctor or about his companion, Sam, who seems a stock character pulled out  of a hat.  Later eighth Doctor books have been alternately good and bad, at  least as far as I've read, and both characters have been fleshed out, but  as an introduction to the characters, this one proves a disappointment.	2000-02-25
US	51031013	R83GB3MYS1UMG	0345385977	795612903	I Haven't Understood Anything Since 1962	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I may not be a southerner...	...but after some years spent living in Slidell, Louisiana, I'm thankful to see a commentator of intelligence and piercing insight blow through the baloney and tell it like it is.  This is the closest we're likely to get to an autobiography of Grizzard's early years, and I'm glad to have it in my  hands, because it allows us to see what kind of mind produced the stuff the  late great man wrote.	2000-02-24
US	51031013	R3KBD4Z0JBK0Q7	0679737898	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Paleoconservatism 101	When Republicans swept mid-term elections in 1994, newly elevated House Speaker Newt Gingrich encouraged his fellow Republicans to do something almost completely unprecedented: rather than living full-time in Washington, DC, legislators should reside in their home districts, only commuting into Washington for Congress's notoriously short workweeks. The results have been disastrous. Legislators who once shared neighborhoods, taverns, and taxis have become complete strangers. Nobody reaches across the aisle anymore because nobody talks to one another.    This, probably PJ O'Rourke's most influential, least doctrinaire book, appeared halfway through the George HW Bush administration, when elected officials still kept company, and Congressional floor debates still influenced votes. Ideas mattered. Therefore, though O'Rourke's Libertarian conservative credentials permeate his analysis of American federal government, his side-splitting timbre has bipartisan bite; he cares less about parties, more about consequences. It's a unilateral debunking clarity broadly missing from political commentators anymore, including, sadly, from O'Rourke himself.    PJ O'Rourke made his bones doing on-set script doctor work for Rodney Dangerfield films, which comes across in his comic timing, frequently coarse humor, and knack for unornamented language. O'Rourke and his close friend John Hughes called themselves the \\"token conservatives\\" at National Lampoon magazine; later, O'Rourke wrote this book, originally as separate articles, during his hitch as \\"National Affairs Desk Chief\\" at Rolling Stone. He claimed to share an office with Hunter S. Thompson.    This mlnge of influences glimmers through O'Rourke's humor. \\"Democrats are also the party of government activism, the party that says government can make you richer, smarter, taller and get the chickweed out of your lawn. Republicans are the party that says government doesn't work, and then they get elected and prove it.\\" What O'Rourkewrote as joshing exaggeration is sober fact anymore. Elsewhere, he characterizes the three branches of government as \\"Money, Television, and Bullshit.\\"    O'Rourke describes a government beholden to conflicting forces: spending programs lingering from Great Society liberalism, underwritten with tax structures colored by the Reagan Revolution. Despite today's ubiquitous Reagan worshippers, O'Rourke notes that, even in the Gipper's long shadow, killing, or even cursorily remodeling, grandfathered programs was virtually impossible. O'Rourke's unsentimental skewering of government priorities makes an excellent antidote to today's unthinking Reagan hagiographies. (Many programs O'Rourke mocks were later dismantled under Bill Clinton, a Democrat.)    One reads O'Rourke's description of a typical Congressman's workday--he followed an actual Congressman for one day--with out-and-out nostalgia. Not because we ever remember doing anything similar ourselves; no, his description of eighteen-hour frenzies of meetings, debates, and gladhanding feels downright nightmarish to anyone lacking a Congressman's ego. Rather, as O'Rourke describes his anonymous Virgil leading him around, we realize, he's talking with colleagues, constituents, and regular citizens. Real conversations, not pre-scripted press junkets.    That human touch is broadly absent from today's political scene. O'Rourke cracks wise about \\"the president act[ing] as a human augury\\" at budget meetings, or \\"the president heal[ing] the sick\\" by signing the Americans With Disabilities Act. Indeed, we still roll eyes at the meaningless ceremony attached to government actions. Yet these activities involve speaking with people holding different opinions. Like coelacanths, we know such beasts still exist; we've just never seen one.    Thus, O'Rourke's cuttingly comical tracts reads like a time capsule. Though inarguably conservative in outlook (his disdain for public welfare and reverence for Reagan loom large), O'Rourke describes philosophical precepts uncolored by partisan cable news, web aggregators, and Koch Brothers talking points. In 1991, even talk radio was still nascent. Commentators like O'Rourke couldn't expect ideologically unswerving audiences; communication with people who disagreed remained mandatory. This book reads like he cares what ideological opponents think.    O'Rourke describes a utilitarian conservatism here, one interested in reaching vast, diverse audiences, not just an ideological base. Tea Party loyalists certainly won't appreciate his willingness to acknowledge complexity and nuance. But centrists and leftists would enjoy debating this version of conservatism, largely because it disdains dogma and sloganeering. O'Rourke channels Reagan's folksy charm, Russell Kirk's thought, and Jonathan Swift's hilarious intolerance for hogwash. That's why this notorious conservative enjoys many fans on the left.    Sadly, since this book debuted, O'Rourke's views, increasingly untempered by interaction with diverse influences, have become increasingly partisan and dogmatic. He treats disagreement as indicative of stupidity, and reduces complex arguments to idiotic caricatures. Recent books have become virtually unreadable for anyone who doesn't share his strict Libertarian nationalism. Worst, they aren't even particularly funny. But for one shining moment, O'Rourke gathered a massive multilateral audience around this hilarious exegesis of Washington's notorious power edifices.	2000-02-24
US	51031013	R1CRIF9SXS3MY9	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	4	0	1	N	N	the great man may be losing his edge...	...but his points remain as relevant and as punchy as ever.  He seems to have begun recognizing some sacred cows in the Libertarian position where once he skewered all positions with equal panache, but it's true you learn more while laughing, and I learned a lot while reading (and laughing at)  this book.	2000-02-24
US	51031013	RWYGYG0WGX050	0679742018	162743212	Give War a Chance: Eyewitness Accounts of Mankind's Struggle Against Tyranny, Injustice and Alcohol-Free Beer	Books	5	2	5	N	N	My first introduction to the great man	I bought this book because his previous one had been a best-seller, and as a bookstore employee, I had a discount.  If I knew then what I know now, I would happily have paid three times the cover price and still felt like a  man of infinite riches.<br />For the benefit of the fellow who wonders about  O'Rourke and Dave Barry having similar styles, I recommend he read the  &quot;Book Tour&quot; article in the book _Age and Guile Beat Youth,  Innocence, and a Ban Haircut_ and decide for himself.	2000-02-24
US	51031013	R2JWFDFGWYEMCO	0563405961	786464725	Matrix (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Unimpeachable, But Worthwhile	I wish more time had been given to the alternate universe created by the interfering of Jack the Ripper, whose presence I think I'm not giving away since it's on the back cover copy.  Still, this adventure, full of the  derring-do of the Doctor and Ace, in the all-time traditional style of  everyone everywhere at once, is excellent, and when you spot the Doctor,  consider yourself fortunate -- I didn't get in until... well, I won't give  anything away.	2000-02-17
US	51031013	RUVVWAW940KHQ	1565042182	801771850	*OP Clanbook Giovanni (Vampire: The Masquerade Clanbooks)	Books	2	2	14	N	N	Where did the quality go?	This is the last of White Wolf's clanbooks for the Vampire game -- and thank heavens, because the quality has gone steadily downhill.  Though this is a definate improvement over the Clanbook: Tzimisce, it's still far too  vulgar and disgusting to bring into a family household.  I hope that, with  the release of the new edition of the game, the darkness and brooding mood  will remain, but the vulgarity will be done away with.	2000-02-17
US	51031013	R2WV2NYHOE3XAN	1853672815	85214900	For Want of a Nail: If Burgoyne Had Won at Saratoga	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Build Me a Nation	The premise is strong and the story is well-told.  I enjoyed speculating if thigs might have turned out this way in the same situation.  I'm inclined to disagree with one or two things as they're presented in this  book -- I think the British would have been more punitive toward the  rebellious colonists -- but maybe I should just write my own book.  All  that's needed is a good knowledge of the facts and a bit of informed  speculation -- both of which are actually hard to come by.  Maybe I'll  stick with reading what other people write.	2000-02-15
US	51031013	R6L6TOZIT14VH	0563555726	192244908	Demontage (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good, but unneccesarily loose	I hate to be the voice of doom here, but this could have been better.  Not that there's anything wrong as such -- the story is snappy, the characters are well done -- and, unlike the last Eighth Doctor novel I reviewed, the  Doctor is actually a prominent character in this one.  My only fault is  that the first eighty pages could have been tightened up more, moving some  of the background material into a later point in the book.  The run-up just  takes too long.  Other than that, largely unimpeachable.	2000-02-15
US	51031013	R30DSOUFNKCI88	0563555866	452136884	Millennium Shock (Doctor Who (BBC))	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Dated a Little Too Quickly	I bought this book when the millennium was still coming and the Y2K bug was still up in the air.  I laughed when the bug didn't come.  Still, it was interesting to speculate on how close it might have come to being what  Richards described.  I liked how it was never made clear whether Richards  believed the Y2K bug was a realistic problem, but still had the world come  to a halt.  It's also nice to have the Doctor confront topical issues,  though I wish they didn't date so quickly.  Still, it was a fun read, both  before and after the big clock kicked over into double zeros.	2000-02-15
US	51031013	R2KTE52VXER9AG	0684839296	659815894	The Serpent and the Rainbow: A Harvard Scientist's Astonishing Journey into the Secret Societies of Haitian Voodoo, Zombis, and Magic	Books	4	11	12	N	N	answers to questions	When much brouhaha was made over the U.S. invasion of Haiti a few years ago I sought out every book my small-town library had on the country, and this was it.  I was hesitant because I knew the reputation of the movie,  but the book turned out to be far superior (the film had only a shirt-tail  relationship to the book).  I'm at a moderately-sized university now that  has about twenty titles specifically about Haiti in its library -- and not  one is as concise or as comprehensible as Wade Davis' firsthand account of  moving among the people.  The elements of adventure, anthropology,  and  science blend well to make up a superior book for the average reader who  doesn't want to wade through a whole lot of technical chatter or  statistics.  The ending is weak -- I wish he'd chosen Bizango or Bouvoir's  cult and taken us in the directions either would have promised -- but the  book on the whole is a good primer on Haiti, the culture, its people, the  science and mythology, and everything you need to know to comment  intelligently on the situation over there.	2000-02-09
US	51031013	R2XIW1REXDVXG3	0563555807	473147306	Interference Book One (Dr. Who Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Where's the Doctor?	I haven't read too many Eighth Doctor books, and I'm wondering -- most of them seem to have marginalized the character of the Doctor.  In this one, the emphasis is on the characters Sam and Sarah Jane.  The Doctor is  imprisoned -- it's never made clear where -- and his fate is left dangling  in the second volume, which I'm loath to pick up.  He simply sits in prison  with his cell mate, nodding like Solomon and chastising himself.  I would  like to learn more about the character of the Doctor -- please start  including him in his own books!	2000-02-03
US	51031013	R2DBUJN54TF5XF	0848801512	104678371	Doctor Who and the Day of the Daleks	Books	5	2	2	N	N	fair beginning	The book was not my introduction to Doctor Who but seeing the video in a catalog clarified for me just how much I had missed the Doctor.  This is a good introduction to the Doctor, his principal enemy the Daleks, and the  subtlly intellectual nature of the Doctor Who series.  Highly recommended.	2000-02-03
US	51031013	R2F20X4K19CT1G	0452268346	394734929	Atom: Journey Across the Subatomic Cosmos	Books	5	9	14	N	N	The Secret of My Success	I'm a hobby science-fiction writer, and you can't do that plausibly without knowing the facts of the subject matter.  Everything I know about physics I drew from this book and from Richard Feynman's &quot;Six Easy  Pieces,&quot; which I also recommend.  When I sell things and you like  them, you'll be able to go to this book and say, &quot;so that's where he  got it from.&quot;	2000-01-28
US	51031013	R32V18R4RG5G31	1565042166	965799399	Clanbook: Tzimisce (Vampire: The Masquerade)	Books	1	1	20	N	N	deep, dark hole	I paid ten dollars and change for this book, read it one time, and haven't opened it again in a year.  The artwork is revolting -- seemingly the whole point of the book -- and it gave my little sister nightmares, but the  actual game mechanics were only marginally useful, and then only if you're  willing to tap into your the most depraved, unstable portion of your soul  to fully flesh out the character -- and those of us who have jobs and  responsibilities don't have that option.  If you're a punk rocker and have  at least three holes per earlobe or more than one eyebrow pierced, what the  heck, go for it.  If you have to get up the next morning and look people  wearing white shirts in the face, keep to Lasombra and Ventrue.	2000-01-28
US	51031013	R1X2MFSI2IL91H	0563405635	488874189	The Eight Doctors (Dr. Who Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Call and Response	I appreciated how the Doctor in this story came back to visit his former selves at key moments in his personal development.  It allows the series to harken back to past triumphs while looking forward to future glory.  I hope  the character of Sam is further developed, but I'm very happy with the  product I have in my hands, and hope to see more of these characters in the  future.	1999-10-06
