US	51035175	R1IKF5B6EJQ5RZ	0553803077	138668501	Sickened: The Memoir of a Munchausen by Proxy Childhood	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Sickening but Fascinating	I could not put &quot;Sickened&quot; down once I started reading it.  As someone who is fascinated by psychology and the recovery of the abused, I found Gregory's memoir compelling and satisfying.  It is all the more horrifying for having been a true story:  yes, Gregory was abused by her attention-seeking mother, and not just in the Munchausen by Proxy context.  Yes, her father was abusive as well.  But what kept me reading until the end was to see how Gregory would work her way through this as an adult. At the satisfying end of the book, Gregory describes how she came to take responsibility for her own life.  Although this book is certainly not for the faint of heart, it provides a heroine and a villain that are all as compelling as any in fiction.	2004-06-23
US	51035175	ROJXXN2G09MEQ	0805068015	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Imaginative, fast-paced read.	A lovely book about a young girl who has lost her mother, only to find herself haunted by two mysterious individuals.  Alternately menacing and helpful, Eva's journey from girlhood to young adulthood in Scotland at the time of the Great War is never less than compelling.  To say more would deprive others of what is, simply put, a great read.  Although I was satisfied with the conclusion of the book, I was left wanting more.	2003-03-14
US	51035175	R2FBYZ8RW58OEA	0571199976	650805783	Proof: A Play	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Deservedly won the Pulitzer and Tony	I have read David Auburn's play, and saw it on Broadway with Jennifer Jason Leigh in the lead.  Even though the performance I saw was less than stellar, the brilliance of the script shone through.  Auburn has written four compelling characters, each of which is haunted in some way, most obviously the title character, haunted both by the ghost of her father and the inheritance of both his brilliance and possible madness.<br />This is a tightly written, emotionally driven four-character drama, full of insight, humor, intelligence, and romance.  A must-read for actors, dramaturgs, and lovers of good theatre.	2003-03-14
US	51035175	RK8VXDURG1ZO	067089155X	134194364	Soul of a Chef: The Journey Toward Perfection	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Ever dream of becoming a chef?  This book's for you	For those of you who love to cook (and may have been crazy enough to dream about doing it professionally), this book's for you.<br />Ruhlman's book takes place in three segments.  The first is perhaps the best, following eight candidates as they take the master chef exam at the Culinary Institute of America (the CIA).  The odds are against more than one or two of them passing, and Ruhlman builds suspense around the exam and who will pass.  It's a cooking exam, and yet you are likely to find yourself rooting for one or more of the candidates.  My only complaint is that the segment ends so quickly that I had to go back and carefully read the last few pages again to find out who had passed.<br />The second segment follows a highly successful Midwestern restauranteur and the unique qualities that make him so successful.  Ruhlman follows his ascent and the notoriety that comes with it, as well the fallback that he suffers.  Again, Ruhlman builds interest in this man--we become invested in whether he can continue to pull off a dinner for a prominent restaurant critic, and whether his pride and audacity will get the best of him.<br />Finally, Ruhlman spent time at the acclaimed Napa Valley Restaurant The French Laundry, exploring its chef's rise and acclaim.  I found this segment to be the least compelling of the three, simply because Ruhlman seemed to be engaging in hero worship.  Objectivity is seriously lacking in this segment, and I didn't feel it was as balanced a portrait of the individual.  In addition, there is no challenge presented here, as there was in the first two segments, and thus it lacks a suspenseful quality.<br />Overall, Ruhlman's book is compelling reading for those who are interested in what it takes to make it as a chef.  For those who want the insider's guide to the restaurant industry, the second segment is particularly illuminating.	2002-06-11
US	51035175	R1TSJSIXYCAQF7	0380820293	543757976	Last Chance Saloon	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fun beach-read pageturner	I have read all of Marian Keyes' previous books, and I found this one to be on par with \\"Watermelon\\"--a terrifically entertaining page turner during which the brain can pretty much be turned off.<br />The novel follows three protagonists--Tara, Katherine, and Fintan--from Ireland to London to search for love (careers are mentioned but are really pretty peripheral).  Fintan finds love and acceptance in the gay community, Tara hooks up with a schmuck who she seems utterly unable to leave, and a series of past bad relationships leave Katherine dubbed \\"the Ice Queen\\" for her reserved demeanor.<br />The reader is likely to root for Tara to gain some self-esteem and leave her pathetic and hurtful lover.  Without spoiling the plot twist, a major change in Fintan's life is likely to leave readers rooting for him as well.  But for me, the most compelling story was Katherine's.  Will she manage to get over her past hurts and come out of her shell when she meets a terrific guy at work?  Well, duh.  This novel is predictable, but that doesn't make it any less of a page-turner.  Even though I knew precisely what was going to happen, that didn't make it any less fun to get there.<br />This is a novel of delicious come-uppances and dishy fun.  You probably know people like these protagonists, and if you don't, you will want to by the time the book is over.  One warning:  the book is such infectious fun that it's tough to put down!	2002-06-11
US	51035175	R2DG8UJH6FIWOU	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Do we need another retelling of the Marilyn Monroe story? No	The final word: &quot;Blonde&quot; is a muddled, long, overdone novel. Skip it and read one of Oates' better novels instead, such as &quot;We Were the Mulvaneys&quot; or &quot;What I Lived For&quot;. I came to &quot;Blonde&quot; with mixed expectations. The novel, nominated for the National Book Award in 2001, was widely panned by reviewers. Now I see why. Oates is a talented and prolific writer, but this novel is an overbaked mess. &quot;Blonde&quot; follows Norma Jeane baker from her childhood as an orphaned (her mother Gladys was in a series of mental hospitals from Baker's childhood on) young girl to her untimely death at the age of 36. In the interim, the reader gets no-holds-barred accounts of Baker's physical maladies, sexual escapades, abortions, and insecurities. And oh yeah, in between the novel recounts the filming of some of Baker/Monroe's famous movies. There is no doubt that Baker/Monroe was a complicated figure. There are times that Oates seems to want to reclaim Monroe as a feminist icon, a woman who lived her life on her own terms and was held back by men from doing so. It doesn't work. Baker/Monroe comes across as fiercely unlikable, easily manipulated, and self-centered. Those who want a Marilyn Monroe biography will be disappointed by the literary stunts that Oates pulls in telling the story (lots of poetry, run-on sentences and liberal use of ampersands (&amp;), which presumably are meant to reflect Monroe's stream of consciousness and confused mental state). Those who want a literary retelling of Monroe's story will also be disappointed by the endlessly graphic descriptions of Monroe's sex life (unclear how much of this is real and how much is fiction) and the difficulty in believing that everyone in Monroe's life was against her. No one comes off well here--not Joe DiMaggio (referred to as the &quot;Ex-Athlete&quot;, the novel posits that he physically abused Monroe and was extremely jealous), nor Arthur Miller (&quot;the Playwright&quot;, whoapparently loved Monroe so much that he smothered her), nor Monroe herself. Monroe was certainly no saint--that much is obvious--but she was smarter than her movies would have us believe, and more serious. This the novel does convey--but that's not enough to slog through 750 poorly-written pages. I read this book because I enjoy Oates' work and am mildly interested in Marilyn Monroe. I was thoroughly unsatisfied on both points and recommend skipping this book.	2001-08-28
US	51035175	R3VP2NC4F9Z9D6	067974536X	462559287	Oleanna: A Play	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Inflammatory and fascinating	David Mamet's Oleanna was polarizing when it premiered on Broadway--audiences tended to sympathize with one character and hate the other.<br />The experience of reading Oleanna rather than seeing it is a rewarding one.  The play features two characters:  John, a professor up for tenure, and Carol, his student.  Each of these characters is in the midst of their own problems when we meet them in the first act--John is arguing with his wife and in the midst of buying a new house (as a celebration of his impending tenure), and Carol is desperately trying not to fail John's class.  When the show opens, Carol has come to John to ask him not to fail her--unfortunately, John is on and off the phone with his realtor and his wife and barely pays attention to Carol.  This is the setup from which the rest of the play unravels.<br />Ultimately, Carol accuses John of sexual harassment--and, although it is easy to say that John never propositions Carol, the reader can see where Carol might have gotten that idea.  John, in his haste to leave, says and does things that in retrospect (the second act) seem like mistakes.<br />Each is a full and fascinating character--John stands on the brink of losing everything that has ever mattered to him, and Carol becomes an ardent feminist activist in the third act.  To say more would be a spoiler.  <br />This play is a fascinating character study, examining academia, language, and the startling effect of bad communication.  A brilliant and biting play.	2001-08-16
US	51035175	R39D3MV14L68CS	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fascinating journey	Susanna Kaysen's well-known biography traces her admission into a mental institution while in her late teens.  The book is a fascinating exploration of her journey into and out of the institution, a short book well worth reading.<br />Kaysen is admitted into the institution after a brief visit (how brief is unclear, although the book ultimately settles on 20-30 minutes) who knows nothing about her other than she attempted to kill herself over a relationship problem (a move which she ultimately reconsidered after taking a large dose of aspirin).  Rather than recommending therapy, the doctor ships her over to the institution so she can &quot;rest&quot;.<br />I was expecting a sort of female &quot;One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest&quot;.  This book is a much kinder, gentler tale, tracing Kaysen's friendships with the other patients, her desire to know what is beyond the institutional walls, and ultimately, her recovery.<br />The main problem I encountered with this book was that I wanted to know more.  Where exactly did the other girls' problems come from?  Why did Kaysen's parents not come to visit her?  Ultimately, Kaysen leaves the hospital, marries, and moves on with her life.  We get foreshadowing that the marriage is doomed, and we know that Kaysen becomes an author.  But I wanted more detail on how this happened.<br />Similarly, the other patients are not sketched in much detail.  Lisa, played by Angelina Jolie in the film, is a psychopath, but we never really know how she got there.  We get a tantalizing glimpse of Lisa near the end, but it's not enough.  The portraits of the other patients are even less detailed.<br />This book is fascinating, but it begs for (dare I say it) a sequel to follow up on the lives of these girls.  While I recommend this book, I would have liked for it to be about twice as long.	2001-08-15
US	51035175	R3KZ3EHX53TRM7	0375709150	138494613	Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Spain	Books	4	3	3	N	N	In the vein of Peter Mayle	Initially, I thought that this book would be to Spain what Peter Mayle's (&quot;A Year in Provence,&quot; &quot;Toujours Provence&quot;) were to France and Frances Mayes' (&quot;Under the Tuscan Sun&quot;)were to Italy.  Although this book lacks the laugh-out-loud funniness of those two authors, it succeeds quite well in its own right.<br />The narrator impulsively buys a farm in Andalucia, inheriting scorpions, bad walls, and a bridge about to be washed out at any minute, among other conundrums.  When he and his wife move in, they briefly experience being fish out of water before learning to settle in and feel comfortable with their new surroundings.<br />They are surrounded both by native Spaniards and other English expats (notably, a hilariously hippie English couple).  Although this book lacks some of the humor of Mayle's multiple works about Provence, it also lacks (fortunately) what too often appears to be Mayle's disregard for his &quot;provincial&quot; neighbors.  Chris Stewart looks at Spaniards with great respect and affection (and looks to them, many times, for help), and there is a very touching scene where he asks a neighbor to be the godfather of his newly born daughter Chloe.<br />There are a few funny scenes, and most of them concern the stubborn sheep that Stewart seems driven to buy despite his utter lack of experience with them.<br />A charming travelogue.	2001-08-03
US	51035175	R308FPW0FW4FLJ	0609603302	863875069	The Book of Jewish Values: A Day-by-Day Guide to Ethical Living	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent way to focus your attention on ethical Judaism	Judaism is based on the theory that actions are often louder than words, and that doing good and redeeming yourself is a continuous process.  Telushkin's book springboards from that, giving a short (1 to 1 1/2 pages) blurb for each day that is meant to focus the reader on ways to live more ethically.<br />This varies in topic from helping the poor to how you should behave toward your spouse and neighbors, but each is supported by text:  Torah, Mishnah, etc.  <br />It takes so little time to read each of these (I spend about five minutes before bedtime on this), but it is a reminder of all the small ways in which we can hurt others, and that continual attention must be paid to how we live our lives.  It seems to argue that we should live more consciously, with awareness of how we as individuals affect the world.<br />This book obviously requires some commitment, as there is a blurb for each day for a year.  However, I have found it a rewarding and enlightening experience to spend each day thinking about just one of the ways in which I can improve the world.<br />I highly recommend this book to all Jewsish readers.	2001-07-16
US	51035175	RLMTK8J9F5PEL	0609603302	863875069	The Book of Jewish Values: A Day-by-Day Guide to Ethical Living	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent way to focus your attention on ethical Judaism	Judaism is based on the theory that actions are often louder than words, and that doing good and redeeming yourself is a continuous process.  Telushkin's book springboards from that, giving a short (1 to 1 1/2 pages) blurb for each day that is meant to focus the reader on ways to live more ethically.<br />This varies in topic from helping the poor to how you should behave toward your spouse and neighbors, but each is supported by text:  Torah, Mishnah, etc.  <br />It takes so little time to read each of these (I spend about five minutes before bedtime on this), but it is a reminder of all the small ways in which we can hurt others, and that continual attention must be paid to how we live our lives.  It seems to argue that we should live more consciously, with awareness of how we as individuals affect the world.<br />This book obviously requires some commitment, as there is a blurb for each day for a year.  However, I have found it a rewarding and enlightening experience to spend each day thinking about just one of the ways in which I can improve the world.<br />I highly recommend this book to all Jewish readers.	2001-07-16
US	51035175	R1ENR0K6U343XT	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	4	91	95	N	N	A delicious autobiography	In this autobiography, Ruth Reichl, the longtime food critic for the NY Times, now the editor in chief at Gourmet, explains how she came to love food.  The book weaves a tapestry of stories, including some about her mother (dubbed the Queen of Mold for serving completely unpalatable dishes) and her early childhood (how an early trip to Paris and her time spent at a French-Canadian boarding school influenced her tastes) to her adulthood, working in a collaborative kitchen and becoming friends with influential foodies.<br />The stories are often laugh out loud funny, and some are very touching (her mother's manic behavior is explained later in the book).  The book allows the reader to see Reichl's influences and her deep love of food through the stories, without Reichl ever coming out and saying &quot;these are my influences.&quot;  <br />Food lovers in particular will probably adore this book, but lovers of autobiographies will probably also enjoy it.  The book is not about food, exactly, but about a woman's coming of age (and part of that coming of age is that she simply loves food and the art of its creation).<br />A delicious read--I couldn't put it down.	2001-07-16
US	51035175	R10DM3P7PCO8NK	1573226947	639857838	God Is a Verb: Kabbalah and the Practice of Mystical Judaism	Books	3	44	54	N	N	An interesting, dense look at Jewish mysticism	I was hoping that &quot;God Is a Verb&quot; would enlighten me on the Kabbalah, or Jewish mysticism.  Unfortunately, I didn't come away with a much better understanding, but it was an interesting read.<br />A warning--&quot;God Is a Verb&quot; is tough reading, particularly the first 2/3rds of it.  Be prepared to take it slow, because there is an awful lot to absorb.<br />What the book does well is set out a pathway toward not necessarily enlightenment, but a better way to live life.  It gives readers the hope that they can, at any time, turn their lives around and make them better by paying more attention to what is truly important.<br />The major drawback of the book is that it seems to assume some sort of background knowledge of Kabbalah.  In addition, I am advised by friends who have studied Kabbalah that the book represents more of the author's own ideas than those represented in the Kabbalah.<br />With that warning, the book does set forth some wonderful exercises designed to prod the reader into relaxing and focusing on what is important.  It also incorporates wonderful stories--Jewish mythology of sorts--that are a delight to read.<br />An interesting book, but not an entryway into the Kabbalah.	2001-07-16
US	51035175	R1TQ0YKUYWI2FL	0385319037	863089890	Animal Husbandry	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Sporadically interesting theory of the sexes	&quot;Animal Husbandry&quot;, made recently into the film &quot;Someone Like You&quot; with Ashley Judd, starts off promisingly enough with what the heroine, Jane Goodale, terms the &quot;New Cow Theory&quot;--essentially, that one men have met and bedded a woman, they need to get on to something (or someone) new and leave the &quot;old cow&quot; behind.  Needless to say, this isn't a very flattering view of men--or women, for that matter.<br />What this novel does well is chronicle Jane's own heartbreak at the hands of a co-worker, who promises her the moon (and to share a posh apartment), but eventually leaves her apartment-less and heartbroken.  The sections of the book where she decides not only to get mad, but to get even, are very funny.  And hence Jane comes to write a column (under a pseudonym with a fake scientific background) espousing the &quot;new cow&quot; theory.<br />And here's where the book goes wrong--page after page of information about the lack of monogamy in male animals.  Long tracts of research and, ultmately, the article that she publishes under the pseudonym.  <br />Of course, a downfall must come after the article is published--she must and will be found out.  But the ending is ultimately satisfying, as Jane learns to deal with the aftermath of the breakup.<br />In all, a mixed bag.	2001-07-11
US	51035175	RBT299EES318X	0316785261	658358380	The Fig Eater: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fascinating Murder Mystery Set in 1910 Austria	&quot;The Fig Eater&quot; revolves around the murder of Dora, a young, well-to-do, but sickly young woman whose body is found in a public park.  The novel then follows the efforts of two teams to find Dora's murderer:  the Inspector and the police force, and the Inspector's wife, Erszebet and the governess Wally.<br />The book is a richly detailed account not only of life in turn of the century Vienna, but also of police procedures of the era.  Those with delicate stomachs be forewarned--the book's detailing of these procedures is occasionally gruesome, as when the police determine what Dora had to eat on the evening of her death (the fig removed from her stomach proves to be a clue, hence the book's title).<br />Entering into the mix is a wealth of fascinating and often duplicitous characters, including Rosza, Dora's former governess, who knows much more than she's willing to admit, Dora's parents, and a couple that is friends with Dora's family, the Zellenkas.<br />By the end, I thought I knew who the murderer was, but I didn't care--the book is filled with expertly plotted hairpin twists and interesting characterizations.  The one unresolved question for me is WHY Erszebet wants so much to find the murderer and what happens to her after the murder is resolved.  But this is a minor quibble for a truly fascinating book.	2001-07-11
US	51035175	R33YUZOVKFGQQE	0385496117	277275627	A Certain Age: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Modern-day version of &quot;House of Mirth&quot;	The ground covered in &quot;A Certain Age&quot; has been covered before (and better) by Jay McInerney's &quot;Story of My Life&quot; and Edith Wharton's classic &quot;House of Mirth.&quot;<br />The story here is that of Florence Collins, a woman in her early 30s whose quest it is to find and marry a wealthy man, and she is past her &quot;prime&quot; and needs to settle down quickly before her looks and money run out (this was also the quest of Lily Bart in &quot;Mirth&quot;).  The novel details her mistakes along the way--sleeping with husbands, irritating the few friends that she has, spending money way beyond her budget, sleeping with men she barely knows, and getting into drugs.<br />This novel wore me out, and the comparisons to &quot;Story of My Life&quot; and &quot;House of Mirth&quot; seemed plain as day.  Unlike &quot;Mirth&quot;, however, which is set in the early 1900s, Florence HAS options.  When she is fired from her job, she ups the ante in her search for a husband but can barely be bothered to try to find another job.<br />This is, unfortunately, what makes Florence so unsympathetic as a character.  WHile she is taken advantage of at certain points throughout the novel, I never felt that she was taking charge of her own destiny.  We never really get inside her head or heart.  Instead, we remain on the outside looking at this shallow, confused and essentially self-destructive woman without really getting into her pain or loneliness.<br />Certainly there still are women who long to find a wealthy husband, and whose quest it is to do so.  But they are just as certainly rarer than when Wharton wrote &quot;Mirth&quot;, and I found Florence an insufferable character for most of the time that I was reading this.<br />Florence's downfall seems inevitable, just as the heroines' were in &quot;Story of My Life&quot; and &quot;Mirth&quot;.  However, the ending rang much truer than if Janowitz had tacked on an artificially happy ending.<br />I recommend this book for, if nothing else, spotting the parallels to those other two novels.  If you're not interested in comparative lit, though, I would give this a pass.  Florence isn't interesting or sympathetic enough as a character to sustain anyone else's attention.ok for, if nothing else, spotting the parallels to those other two novels.  If you're not interested in comparative lit, though, I would give this a pass.  Florence isn't interesting or sympathetic enough as a character to sustain anyone else's attention.	2001-07-04
US	51035175	RJ2O6OJDH7DD0	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Engaging, at times overly melodramatic, mother/daughter stor	&quot;Amy and Isabelle&quot; is the story of a complicated mother (Isabelle) and daughter (Amy) relationship.  They live in a small town, and Amy is becoming a rebellious teenager, chafing at the strictness of her mother's rules.  Of course, one of the questions that must be resolved is WHY Isabelle is so strict--and it is resolved, at the end of the novel, but by then you will probably have figured it out for yourself.  I won't spoil it here.<br />The engaging part of the story is the transformation of the two main characters.  Amy draws increasingly into herself after a harmful relationship with her teacher, while Isabelle begins to blossom near the end of the book.  One of the major problems with the book is a total lack of a sympathetic character--while I felt that Amy had been badly taken advantage of, she was too surly and rude even prior to that to be a really sympathetic heroine.  Likewise, the revelation of Isabelle's secret comes too late in the book to make her truly sympathetic.<br />The other problem with the book is some really clunky, pretentious dialogue scattered throughout.  I believe that this is Strout's first novel, and it shows quite a bit of promise.  However, while I never considered putting this book down, it became a bit of a chore to get through it.  Also, be prepared for activating your total suspension of disbelief with the (out of nowhere) supernatural elements of the plot.<br />Worth reading for the finely drawn and complicated relationship between Amy and Isabelle.	2001-07-04
US	51035175	R13L7FUVWFJ2KT	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Better than average Brit romantic comedy	&quot;Trials of Tiffany Trott&quot; is one of a seemingly endless number of British romantic comedy novels to come out in the past few years.  Smarter than some, but not as funny as others, &quot;Tiffany Trott&quot; is a pleasant and enjoyable read.  I recommend it for anyone who enjoys this genre;  be forewarned, though, that this novel runs a little longer than your average romantic comedy.<br />The story follows 37-year-old Tiffany Trott through her travails of trying to find her male soulmate in England.  She's smart, attractive, and actively looking, but nevertheless the available, straight men seem to be in short supply.  She places personal ads, joins a dating service, and attends singles parties, with sometimes uproarious results.  Perhaps one of the funniest elements of the novel is contrasting Tiffany's life with those of her small, close group of friends, who are all embarking on journeys of their own through marriage, single motherhood, and balancing career with the desire to have a relationship and children.  The scenes with her friends sufficiently ground the novel between Tiffany's forays into the singles scene.<br />The one jarring note is the conclusion.  It seems to be a foregone conclusion that Tiffany will find someone at the end of the novel, and the question becomes who.  I had it pegged as one character, who got married 3/4 of the way through the novel to another character, which pleasantly surprised me.  But just who Tiffany ends up with struck me as a bit of a false note, a too-easy ending...I'll let you see for yourself.<br />A funny, sometimes touching exploration of searching for Mr. Right in your late 30s.	2001-07-04
US	51035175	R1KHEB78392ZXD	1573225487	127424363	The Romance Reader	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent debut, good Jewish lit	Pearl Abraham's debut novel, Romance Reader, explores the difficulties of being an orthodox Jewish woman trapped between the modern and conventional worlds.  Rachel's marriage is, for all practical purposes, arranged for her--as much as she dreams of contemporary romance, it isn't to be had.  So she begins to rebel, slowly, against her husband, against the customs of her religion, and against the values with which she has grown up.<br />THe novel isn't always easy to read, as it becomes more and more apparent that Rachel is stuck in a loveless marriage and wants to get out.  And so the primary question of the book--will she leave or won't she?<br />Rachel is a compelling and fascinating character, and this book is far better drawn than Abraham's followup, &quot;Giving Up America.&quot;  You will sympathize with Rachel and stay with her toward the end.  One note of warning--Rachel is (as Abraham herself appears to be) critical of the orthodox lifestyle and its restrictions.  I suspect that there is more than a bit of the author in Rachel.	2001-06-24
US	51035175	R16GSTW2OZI6I0	1573227528	747354389	Giving up America	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A less than stellar follow-up to &quot;Romance Reader&quot;	For anyone just now becoming acquainted with Pearl Abraham's writing, I would recommend skipping this book and reading &quot;Romance Reader,&quot; her first novel.  The characters in &quot;America&quot; are less well drawn, less sympathetic, and less compelling.  Ultimately, I had a difficult time reading this book, as I didn't like any of the characters well enough to really commit to them.<br />The novel is the story of Daniel and Deena, a recently married Jewish couple.  As time goes by, it becomes clear that their religious background is almost all they share, as they walk about their new house becoming increasingly isolated from each other.  Deena becomes increasingly shrewish, while Daniel, seemingly uncharacteristically, becomes a flirt with their common friends.<br />Will they separate or won't they?  This is also the central conceit of &quot;Romance Reader.&quot;  Unlike that novel, however, there is no one character to sympathize with or to keep you interested in their plight.<br />This novel shows promise but is ultimately unfulfilling.  It is a major let-down after the deeply felt &quot;Reader.&quot;	2001-06-24
US	51035175	RVY6MMZNSGXQ7	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Doesn't break the conventions of its genre, but fun	&quot;Watermelon&quot; tells a familiar story--woman is dumped by lousy husband (the day their baby is born, even!), and slowly makes her way back to love.  That said, it doesn't mean that the book is not enjoyable, for it is.<br />OUr protagonist is dumped by her husband at the hospital and flees London to go home to Dublin.  Part of the great fun of this novel is her wacky family--mother with no cooking skills, hippie sister, bitchy sister, oblivious but well-meaning father.  <br />There never is any doubt that she will meet someone better and more suitable (and she does, the student Adam), that her husband will want her back, and that she will ultimately make the right decision (which she does).  But Keyes tells the story with skill and great good humor, and the book is a pleasurable page-turner from beginning to end.<br />Don't look for great literary innovation here.  But if you are a fan of romantic comedies, particularly British ones, this is likely to be right up your alley.  NOTE:  Like one of Keyes' other novels, &quot;Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married,&quot; the foregone conclusion doesn't spoil the book.	2001-06-22
US	51035175	R12C0XNQBKC7MO	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sad but fascinating	&quot;Bee Season&quot; refers, ostensibly, to the season of spelling bees.  The central character is Eliza, whose family questions her intelligence but who wins the school, district, and state spelling bees before heading to national.  It is at this point that Saul, her scholar father, begins to pay attention to her.  But this attention is to the detriment of Eliza's brother, Aaron, the former apple of his father's eye who begins to turn his attention to the practice of the local Hari Krishna's as he questions his own Jewishness.<br />It is difficult to sum this novel up--Eliza's spelling prowess begins to mirror her own questioning of her religion, and her quest for religious enlightenment.  There are also strong, very difficult family dynamics at play here--Saul is clearly uncapable of paying attention to both his children, and Miriam, the mother, is a cypher.  Her story, in particular, will keep you fascinated and ultimately horrified throughout.<br />This is not a particularly uplifting novel, but it will keep you turning the pages.  How far will Eliza go to earn her father's respect, and will she realize that she is fulfilling his dream instead of hers?  What will become of Aaron and Miriam?<br />There is much more than meets the eye here.  Goldberg combines a story of family dynamics and one of religious quests expertly.  You will be sad after reading this (there IS a ray of hope at the end, though, in my opinion), but you will be enriched by the experience.	2001-06-22
US	51035175	RV7G6FR97ZL7D	0446673889	18943090	Lovingkindness	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Mixed feelings	I began this book with a great sense of anticipation, but ultimately found myself let down.<br />The novel traces the relationship between a liberal feminist mother, Annie, and her daughter Andrea.  Like many mother/daughter narratives, the early part of the novel traces the failures of both--Annie's attempts to impress her own beliefs upon her daughter, and her daughter's rebellion from them.  <br />Andrea's character makes a 180-degree turn in the middle of the novel, just as the reader gets used to her being a hostile, ungrateful, screw-up.  Why does she become an ultra-Orthodox Jew?  It's a fascinating question, but the book didn't ultimately pay off for me.<br />For me, the book's major downfall is the initial set-up of the characters.  Andrea was, as noted above, too unlikeable to grab my sympathy or my interest to find out exactly what has become of her.<br />I note that my feelings are decidedly in the minority--most reviewers have liked this book much better than I did.  For my opinion, though, there are much better narratives about Jewish mother/daughter relationships and modern Jewish literature in general.	2001-06-05
US	51035175	RWFYQX5GHV3AU	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	3	70	75	N	N	Holds your interest, but loses your sympathy	Having read several other people's reviews of this novel while I was reading it, I generally agree with most of their criticisms.  &quot;Weight of Water&quot; has a fascinating premise--a photojournalist goes back to the scene of an 1800's crime in New England in which two women were murdered on an isolated island, while one woman managed to escape.  The story shifts back and forth (with little notice to the reader, but the transitions aren't difficult to follow) between the present-day story of Jean, the photojournalist, who is boating to this island with her husband, her brother-in-law and his attractive girlfriend, and her young daughter, and the story of the murder.  <br />Based on true events, the murder is narrated by the survivor, Maren, who wrote a narrative document that Jean pinches from the local historical society.  The tension of Maren's story concerns her loveless marriage, her frail (at best) relationships with her sister Karen and her sister-in-law Anethe, and her deep love for her brother Evan.<br />BOTH stories have the potential to be interesting.  I began the novel with high hopes.  However, neither story really pays off.  For the whodunit to work, there would need to be more tension.  You start to suspect the murderer's true identity too early, and ultimately you find that none of the characters in this story are very sympathetic.  Plus, a key element to caring about this story is to know more about why Maren adores her brother so much--we get a very veiled hint, and that's about it.<br />The present-day story also suffers from a lack of sympathetic characters.  Jean is interesting, but when her character stumbles (I won't reveal how) late in the novel, the question is WHY she reacts in this manner rather than delving deeper into her problems with her poet husband.  The brother-in-law and his girlfriend come across as too one-dimensional, although they are supposed to be pivotal characters in the relationship between Jean and her husband.  <br />A lot happens in this novel--a murder story is resolved, Jean comes to a point of personal crisis, and a death occurs in Jean's story (again, I won't tell you who).  But the narrative is so flat (and slow, at times) that it's difficult to remain attentive, much less sympathetic.<br />I can't imagine not finishing this book once you start it, but it's difficult to imagine being drawn in by any of these characters.	2001-06-05
US	51035175	R38ZK5PYVPRO1N	0060603402	340694259	The Mezuzah in the Madonna's Foot: Marranos and Other Secret Jews--A Woman Discovers Her Spiritual Heritage	Books	4	32	33	N	N	A fascinating look at a little-known aspect of Jewish histor	The author, who was hidden by Spaniards for two years during WWII, uses her own experience as a jumping-off point for a discussion of centuries of Spanish assistance in hiding and protecting Jews during times of persecution, notably during the SPanish Inquisition.<br />While I have a fair grasp on Jewish history, I was astounded by the stories of these &quot;secret Jews,&quot; known only to each other by things like the titular talisman (including a Jewish object like a mezuzah in a painting of a Madonna).  The descendants of these secret Jews, the Marranos, are still with us today.<br />This is a little-known aspect of Jewish history.  As I kept turning the pages (and trust me, this is a page-turner), I kept saying &quot;I didn't know that.&quot;<br />Even if Jewish history is not a particular interest, the book is interesting both as general history and a fascinating narrative of the author's experiences and those of centuries of Marranos.	2001-06-05
US	51035175	RKRXGZZXLA0LY	0449005569	474004755	Love: A User's Guide	Books	3	2	2	N	N	How to ruin a love affair in one simple step...	Amy, a hapless fashion assistant, longs to fall in love--really fall in love.  Unfortunately for her, she also longs for fame.  So when she meets Orlando, a genuine film star, and he falls for her, she is more taken by her shot at fame (the reflected glow from him) than she is by Orlando himself.<br />Like most romantic comedy novels, this makes us groan in disgust at Amy's naivete.  But, again like most romantic comedy novels, we know that a happy ending is in sight.<br />Short and snappy, the novel might have been even more amusing had it really explored the shallow world of fashion in which Amy works--a world that has almost certainly led to her own initial shallowness.<br />Amusing yet predictable, this is an easy, light read, perfect for the plane.  Although &quot;Love:  A User's Guide&quot; is funny, with fun characters, it is never as involving as, say, &quot;Confessions of a Shopaholic.&quot;	2001-05-31
US	51035175	R18FH6F8BEGZZC	014026759X	608283211	Miriam's Kitchen: A Memoir	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Touching and mouth-watering	I finally read this book after meaning to for a long time--and I'm glad that I did.<br />The premise of this book, a true story, is that a young Jewish daughter-in-law is learning to cook from her husband's mother, Miriam, who is a cook par excellence and a concentration camp survivor.  Although the book is peppered with everyday and Jewish holiday recipes, the beauty of the narrative is the growing appreciation that the author, a young career woman, finds for her aging mother-in-law.<br />This book is a rare combination--a book for foodies (of which I am admittedly one) and a book for women who are learning to appreciate the wisdom of an older generation.<br />The book is sometimes funny, sometimes serious, but always tantalizing and perpetually interesting.  I highly recommend it.	2001-05-31
US	51035175	RLF7FJLCIWM8U	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Comprehensive American Classic	This is akin to a foodie's bible--extremely comprehensive, covering everything from soup to nuts.  If there is a basic (and even not-so-basic) recipe you need, it's almost certain to be in here.  This is not a &quot;specialty&quot; cookbook--this is the grande dame, next to Betty Crocker, of the basic cookbooks that should be in a good kitchen library.  Or, if you are going to have only one cookbook in your kitchen, this is a good place to start.<br />This version has been updated, with older, less-common recipes removed.  The updating also includes tips for making certain (select) recipes lower in fat.  One of my major quibbles with this cookbook, however, is that it does not include nutritional information (calorie and fat counts) that many newer cookbooks do.<br />That said, this is a solid, comprehensive cookbook.  If you are in need of a basic cookbook, this may be it for you.  One word of caution:  while some cooking techniques are explained in detail, this is probably not the cookbook for learning basic terminology/technique.	2001-05-31
US	51035175	R2TQUZNQ462KZ	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Will she wise up or won't she?	When Lucy Sullivan visits a psychic with a group of friends from work, the psychic predicts that Lucy will marry within the year.  Will she or won't she?  That's the fairly slender premise on which this longish (for a romantic comedy) book is based.<br />Shortly thereafter, Lucy meets Gus, an unreliable, broke, but charming (to Lucy, less so to me as the reader) man who soon becomes a serious romantic interest.  <br />The scenes of Lucy's heartbreak are familiar but nevertheless charming, as she and her roommates (the sympathetic Charlotte and annoying social climber Karen) fall in love and out again.  Due to a slow middle section in which Lucy pines for Gus, the book bogs down a bit but picks up near the end.  To reveal more would spoil it for future readers (although you'll probably see the ending coming after the first 100 pages).<br />Predictable, but charming.  Probably much like Lucy herself.  A good, light read.	2001-05-31
US	51035175	R33GZ40WNAWGTU	037570731X	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Interesting but ultimately unsatisfying comic novel	Lipman's comic novel concerns Nash Harvey (or Harvey Nash, depending on who knows him), the ladies' man of the title.  Nash unceremoniously dumped the eldest of three sisters twenty-five years ago.  Without a word as to the basis of his actions, he disappears only to reemerge into their lives.  <br />Nash is slime--that much is clear--as he is willing to flatter, sleep with, and then dump women according to his current needs for money, housing, and work.  Unfortunately, for this book to work, it needs to be understood WHY he is so appealing to a spectrum of women.  Is it his looks?  His charm, which seems so transparent?  Or is the point that these women that Nash preys upon are lonely and insecure?<br />Whatever the answer, it is inevitable that most readers will want to see him get his comeuppance by the end of the novel.  And he does--but only to a limited extent.  I wanted him to go down much, much more ignominiously, and for that reason the ending was unsatisfying.  The novel also lacks a resolution as to the relationship among the three sisters, which is severely strained by Nash's arrival.  What makes these three women act as they do?  How do they feel when he's gone?<br />I was interested in the book throughout--my only problem is that I wanted more resolution at the end.	2001-05-08
US	51035175	R2QVRZUBX1SYHJ	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	If you liked the movie, you'll love the book	In a reversal of my usual routine, I saw &quot;Wonder Boys&quot; the film before I read the book.  I thoroughly enjoyed the film, and I loved the book.  <br />The book follows the travails of Grady Tripp, an overweight, aging college English professor who wrote the great American novel--and who has been totally unable to finish his follow-up book, which amounts to over 2 thousand pages at the beginning of the novel.<br />But, as the reader shortly finds out, this is just the beginning of Grady's problems.  In the space of one long weekend during his college's WordFest writer's festival, he loses his wife, learns that his lover is pregnant, copes with his sexually ambiguous and troubled editor, and learns the truth about the life and talent of one of his students.<br />The novel is briskly paced and plotted, and the minute events in Grady's life are alternately funny and pathetic.  You see Grady growing in sincerity and realization throughout the novel, and it's a pleasure to watch this dissolute but essentially good-hearted man fall and then rise again due to his change in priorities.<br />This is a funny, touching, expert piece of writing.  Chabon just won the Pulitzer for his most recent novel, and this book clearly demonstrates his talent.  I highly recommend it.	2001-05-04
US	51035175	R2DRWY8WL1LR6J	037570485X	610660223	The Inn at Lake Devine	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Slight but charming	I picked up this book for a paper I was writing about modern Jewish heroines.  It wasn't a great addition to my paper, but it was a quick, charming read that would be great for a beach, a plane, or a rainy day.<br />Our heroine is a cooking student who is scarred by an incident from her childhood in which a resort--the titular inn--refused to allow her family to stay there one summer because they were Jewish.  <br />The premise seems heavy, but the execution is not.  While the novel does concern the heroine's need to go back to the inn (where she once stayed with a childhood friend and her family), this is not a serious treatment of anti-Semitism or interfaith relationships.<br />What it is--and what it does well--is detail the fumblings and failures of several families--Natalie's, her childhood friend Robin's, and the Berrys, who own the inn.  The end result is a Jane Austen-lite comedy of manners:  funny but without the biting wit or satire.  The book drops the ball on some of the issues (in particular, Natalie's interfaith relationship with a member of the Berry family is too neatly resolved considering what has come before it), but what it does do, it does well.<br />An endearing, easy read.	2001-04-19
US	51035175	R1P8C35BMLIYSG	0671015648	249435806	Isabel's Bed	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Lipman's most laugh-out-loud novel	Having been mildly charmed by several of Lipman's other novels, most notably &quot;Inn at Lake Devine,&quot; I picked up &quot;Isabel's Bed&quot; in preparation for a long flight.  I wasn't disappointed.  After a slow start (during which you will struggle to figure out whether you actually like the two main female characters), the novel settles into a brisk, funny exploration of a friendship between two disparate fortysomething women.  One has just been ignominiously dumped by her boyfriend of 11 years;  the other is the former mistress of a man murdered in his bed by his wife--and who was there to witness the murder!<br />But this novel is not a drama--the tale of the murder is played for laughs.  And seemingly flighty Isabel comes to be a well-rounded, compassionate character in the middle of the novel--not to mention one who has a few tricks up her sleeve.  <br />Aside from a small twist at the end, the novel moves along predictably but pleasingly--it is a funny, easy novel of manners.  Even though you know the heroine will find love and career satisfaction at the end of the novel, getting there is no less pleasurable.	2001-04-19
US	51035175	RGUUSTQKBL8IM	0452282128	540342564	Thirtynothing	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Vapid nonsense	I should start by saying two things:  I love British comic novels, and I'm approaching the age of the main characters of this book.  Therefore, it seemed like a natural read for me.  I found myself extremely disappointed at how vapid the characters were, even for books of this type.  What's more, there isn't a sympathetic character in the book--you will be shouting yourself hoarse every time they make a stupid decision (which is about every other page).  For a fluffy book like this to work, there has to be something to like about the protagonists--there just isn't here.  <br />I became tired of this book long before it ended.  If this sounds like a book you might enjoy, skip it and read &quot;Confessions of a Shopaholic&quot; instead.  It's in the same genre and features an intensely likeable, if somewhat scatterbrained, heroine.	2001-03-23
US	51035175	R1OQ9M3W4EW1FN	0060977027	725189863	The New Girls	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Less than classic Gutcheon	Having read most of Beth Gutcheon's books, I sat down with this one with high expectations.  The book failed to live up to them, but I will say this--it's a page-turner, because you do want to find out what happened to these women.<br />The book opens with four of the five girls back at their boarding school for a reunion.  IN the opening chapter, it is revealed that one of the five has committed suicide.  For the rest of the novel, you search for clues on why it happened--what drove her to it?  YOu also search for clues on what will become of these young women.  Unfortunately, the drama doesn't really pay off--you see the girls as adults again the in the final chapter, but it doesn't tell you much about either of these questions.  <br />Having followed these girls throughout the book, it would be more interesting to see what became of them than to detail each and every last exploit of their boarding school years.  Perhaps the book should have been longer and done that.  <br />This is a good book, but unlike &quot;Saying Grace,&quot; &quot;Five Fortunes,&quot; and &quot;Still Missing,&quot; it isn't a great one.	2001-03-23
US	51035175	ROWC62B263DCQ	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A shelfmate for Bridget Jones	Funny and fast-paced, this book explores the expenses and emotions of a young British woman whose life never seems to measure up to the one that she (continually) shops for.  Punctuated throughout by increasingly less polite letters from her creditors, we follow her through her two options--cut back or make more money.  The first, predictably,is a disaster--the second has unexpected and funny consequences--just when she least expects it.<br />You will laugh out loud and, if you're anything like me, have a difficult time putting this book down.  YOu may also immediately turn to the back cover to see if the author has written anything else.	2001-02-27
US	51035175	R2W0FBSBC86PS7	0064401847	127537711	Bridge to Terabithia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A childhood favorite worth reading as an adult	Most of the books that I read during childhood haven't held up when I go back to them as adults--but this one does.  I remember empathizing with the female protagonist of this story--I was a tomboy, I had male friends, and I had a fantastic imaginative life.  This book takes us into the heads and hearts of a boy and girl who dare to become friends at the age when that is sure to cause ridicule, and it takes us into the fantasy world that they create together.  Because you become so involved with them and their world, it is all too tragic when reality intrudes at the end of the book.<br />A great book by itself, but possibly also a great tool to teach children about death--particularly the untimely death of friends.	2000-12-28
US	51035175	R281HCX6QIH8UP	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	45	59	N	N	An underappreciated classic	This is an underappreciated classic that, while labelled as a children's book, resonates with you at any age.  Set in the world of a boarding school, two friends contemplate the outbreak of war even as their bonds of friendship grow.  Like great &quot;young adult literature,&quot; the characters in this book ring absolutely true.  And when tragedy strikes at the end of the novel, you will be stunned when adolescent bravery plunges into sadness.<br />A must-read for anyone ten and up.  I fear that this novel has been left behind in the age of Harry Potter.  Don't let that happen!	2000-12-28
US	51035175	RJXVNYB267QMC	0385318782	405219559	Talk Before Sleep	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Feels a bit self-indulgent	Judging by the praise heaped on by the other reviews, I obviously didn't like this book as much as most people.  I read Berg's more recent &quot;Open House&quot; first, and I enjoyed the sunny writing style and humor.  For me, however, &quot;Talk&quot; bogged down somewhere in the middle.  With the exception of Ruth, who is dying of cancer, most of the women seemed to be sketchily drawn.  The narrator, with whom we are meant to empathize, is similarly sketchy.  One questions, too, how easily she seems to balance her home life with caring for her dying friend.<br />Despite the adulation, this book just isn't up to par with &quot;Open House.&quot;  The subject is compelling, and Ruth is somewhat compelling as a character, but the book is too long and too sketchy to be compelling as a whole.	2000-12-15
US	51035175	R2KR8F149R0MN5	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Surviving divorce with the sense of humor intact	This is a book about a woman going through a divorce--but don't let that turn you off.  Although there is a lot of truth about the pain that divorce brings, this is also the story of a woman who grows and triumphs--with her sense of humor intact--after a messy breakup.<br />The book is populated by funny supporting characters, from the MIT-trained engineer-cum-dogwalker that she falls for to the courtly but lusty septagenarian that becomes the divorcee's roommate.  And our heroine?  By turns pathetic and funny, but always human.<br />This is a quick, fun read--perfect for a car trip.	2000-12-07
US	51035175	R2EZZGJS591CLK	1573228214	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	2	3	N	N	So this is how men think...	I admit that I saw the movie before I read the book and (with all due respect to John Cusack) the book is far superior to the movie.  Howlingly funny, the narrator mourns his latest break-up by going through his all-time top five worst breakups and along the way waxing poetic on his favorite music.<br />What makes this such a great novel, though, is that the humor is balanced with true insight and some very touching realizations on the nature of love.  <br />Funny, touching, and true--isn't this how all books are supposed to be?  This is a great book for anyone who has gone through a hideous breakup, which is to say that I would recommend it to pretty much everyone.	2000-12-07
US	51035175	RPYNMBGEF5SEJ	0434427381	373789216	Judgement Day	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Find this book!	I can't believe that this book is out of print!  Lively is one of the best British writers still working today.  YOu have to admire her gift for writing things simply--but writing them simply better than anyone else.<br />This book is ostensibly about a religious painting in a small town in England, but what it really is is a reflection of the people who live there, the changes in their lives, and their own faith.  Claire Paling, an agnostic, is the heroine who comes to understand not only the meaning of the painting, but the importance of faith in the lives of the people around her.  <br />You will not be able to put this book down, it's so well-written.  Fortunately, it's a quick read.	2000-12-07
US	51035175	R2M9V9E7JJKMN0	0375501886	535618685	Without Reservations: The Travels of an Independent Woman	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A woman you'd want to travel with	This book is by turns funny and touching.  A middle-aged divorcee decides to take time off from her work and life in America and travel abroad by herself.  She doesn't really end up being by herself, of course, and that's what makes the book so much fun.  As she travels to France, England, and Italy, she meets both natives and other travelers with whom she briefly becomes entangled.<br />Perhaps the one sour note of this book is her relationship with Naohiro, who she meets near the beginning and obsesses about throughout.  To me, he is far less compelling than the trio of women whom she meets in England, the partying Australian analyst, or the woman she meets in France who is clearly in an unhappy relationship.<br />Overall, though, I wanted to know this woman and have her as a travel companion--although that would be totally contrary to the theme of this book.	2000-11-17
