US	51049750	R29G5HIGFY07FI	0060002484	534292075	Amazonia	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Smart jungle meets modern medical thriller	Nathan Rand is following in his father's footsteps by researching the medicines employed by local shamen in the various Indian tribes of the Amazon Rainforest.  But he is also living in his parent's shadow as it is that very rainforest that claimed both of their lives.  Now, as a plague, originating in the Amazon, is spreading and claiming lives throughout the world, Nate and a US military research team must follow the deadly path through the jungle in search of a cure. <br /> <br />Rollins' novel is smart, fast paced, and highly entertaining.  The pages don't turn fast enough as the group makes their way through the treacherous jungle.  As if the normal jungle conditions aren't enough, the team confronts mutated piranha-frogs, carniverous locusts, and caimens and jaguars the size of which no one has ever seen.   <br /> <br />Certainly, the element of reality must be suspended to truly enjoy this book, but it is still highly believeable and at least minimally based on medical fact.  The characters express a true range of emotion as would be displayed in a situation of fear and tragedy.  Overall, the thrilling story keeps the pages turning and the reader highly engaged.	2005-10-10
US	51049750	R3912NQ22WH28G	006057061X	258267223	Good Catholic Girls: How Women Are Leading the Fight to Change the Church	Books	2	3	13	N	N	Somewhat interesting topic lost in dull writing style	Bonavoglia examines the modern Catholic Church and women that are making great strides to change the woman's role in the church.  This book highlights a number of different women and the actions they have taken in an attempt to influence the Church's hierarchy to be more inclusive and accepting of women in significant Church roles.  It also emphasizes the multitude of examples where women have been blatently excluded and discouraged, if not prevented, from taking a more active role in the Church.  Topics addressed include the Church's position and reaction to pedophilia, rape, contraceptives, abortion, sex, and women's ordination. <br /> <br />What had potential to be a stirring and thought provoking book turned into a chore to read.  I found the writing to be disjointed and personal stories slammed into the middle of some fact and some author opinion.  What this book was able to do was highlight some of the actions of the Church that are truly disappointing revelations in today's modern age.  However, the impact of these revelations was lost in the boring writing surrounding them.  The epilogue is the only part of the book that really flows and stirs some emotion.  But for the last two pages of the book I would have rated it with 1 star only.	2005-10-06
US	51049750	R37I5AARQ9ZID7	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not bad, not bad at all	Honeymoon stars Nora Sinclair, beautiful and cunning, who has a penchant for good looking rich men.  Through her intererior design work she meets clients and other men whom she seduces and then ultimately kills once she has figured out how to access their millions of dollars.  But there is one man out there that is on to her....and he will not be fooled....or will he??  FBI agent John O'Hara believes that he is the one that cannot be lured into Nora's trance, but when he starts to believe that she may be innocent, will he drop his guard enough to become her next victim?  Will Nora figure out that John is not all he seems?    Honeymoon does a decent job of keeping the twists twisting, and the plot turning.  Nora is a villin that the reader will love to hate and John is the type of hero that is competent, but has enough flaws to make him endearing.      Patterson tries to involve a number of subplots that are not developed enough to be good, but have enough presence that they become distracting and some what annoying.  The novel would have been much better had he stayed with the twists of the main plot.   Also, the end pretty much falls apart and answers you are waiting for are never revealed.  However, it holds together well enough to be an enjoyable and easy read.  In fact it is better than the Alex Cross novels of late.	2005-09-20
US	51049750	R3JJ1K70V15F8S	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Just about back on track	Joel Backman is possibly the most hated man in Washington.  Six years ago he pled guilty to illegal possession of government documents, but the truth about what he knew angered multiple countries and resulted in numerous deaths.  Now the director of the CIA has convinced the outgoing President to pardon Blackman so they can sit back and watch to see which county finds him and kills him.  Blackman, released and tucked away in a small town in Italy is not a dumb man.  He realizes that his life is in danger, but the big question is who can he trust?  All the while he is trying to learn to adapt to his new surroundings and environment without knowing the Italian customs or language. <br /> <br />Grisham is almost back to his early days of writing with The Broker.  It is a very light read and the story definately has some holes in it, but it is somewhat reminicent of Grisham's early days where the story is very fast paced and keeps you wanting more.  Grisham has found his niche as long as he is content with writing fun novels that are perfect for the beach.	2005-09-12
US	51049750	R1U2BYS4J5MZJE	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Environmental Crusades Gone Deadly	Crichton almost delivers with this environmental thriller.  The threat of global warming is not new to anyone and is the action event for NERF, the National Environmental Resource Fund.  This American activist group decides to file a lawsuit against the EPA on behalf of the Pacific island nation of Vanutu.  Of course to launch a plan this staggering much funding is needed and NERF finds their savior in George Morton, billionaire.  But George begins to act strangely and NERF leaders wonder if he is losing his mind when he starts to question the validity of various global warming theories.  When he disappears and is suspected dead, his attorney Peter Evans, and Morton's assistant Sarah Jones find themselves embroiled in an deadly plot to change the course of weather and naturally occuring phenomenon in an effort to bolster the public's impression of environmental dangers. <br /> <br />Crichton has weaved a fascinating tale involving science, politics, conspiracy, and intrigue.  However, in the effort to substantiate the plot, the dialogue often gets deeply mired in the science, detracting somewhat from the flow of the novel.  At times the references to actual data and research studies get a bit \\"preachy\\" and the reader is left wondering if the plot itself is also agenda driven.  Of course had there not been some data to back up the novel's contentions reviewers would be clamoring that it was not fact based or realistic.  In the end, this novel holds up to Crichton's others as a reasonably fast paced and entertaining thriller that will keep you turning the pages eager to find out what happens next.	2005-09-10
US	51049750	R3Q70ZN2QOMLRJ	074324477X	739647199	Rockville Pike: A Suburban Comedy of Manners	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Midlife Melodrama	Rockville Pike is told from the perspective of a middle age suburban wife and mother who finds herself living a less than satisfactory life.  She works at her husband's family's furniture store in Rockville, Maryland and is the mother of a teenage son recently turned Goth and vegan.  This book chronicles her realization that her marriage is floundering, the furniture store is hemmoraging money, and none of this is even similar to the life she once planned to lead.  This novel follows her comical and introspective search for answers and the decisions she is faced with regarding how to improve her lot in life. <br /> <br />Susan Coll does an excellent job of capturing the feelings of the disgruntled suburban soccer mom caught in a life that doesn't seem her own.  The characters are very well developed and easy to relate to.  It is not at all difficult to believe Jane Kramer, the narrator, and how she feels about her husband, job, and child.  The downside is that this book drags at times and is occasionally boring.  This disappointment is tempered with other sections of the book that are extremely entertaining and funny.  Another reason this book is fun for some readers is the references to Rockville, MD and other localities related to this DC suburb. <br /> <br />Overall, this book is mediocre, but portions of the book save it and result in a novel worth reading.	2005-09-05
US	51049750	R3DMIRVPD6EMN0	0446531081	880645124	Hour Game (King & Maxwell)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Back in the Saddle	Both Baldacci and his characters are back with a novel worth the read.  Again Sean King and Michelle Maxwell (both from Split Second) team up to solve a mystery - and this one is leaving dead bodies in its wake.  When bodies start piling up and the killer is leaving copycat serial killer clues, King and Maxwell attempt to find the killer before he can find another victim.  However mysterious burglaries and family secrets make it difficult to put any of the pieces together.  It seems that no one involved can be trusted and the duo have to race against time to find the killer and save even their own lives! <br /> <br />Baldacci first introduced these characters an a sub par novel.  Split Second did not live up to his previous work.  So it is refreshing to see them come alive in something that is more up to speed.  But this book is still not as good as it could be or on pace with Baldacci's initial works.  Some of the story line gets confusing and there are almost too many characters to keep up with.  But overall it is a fast paced murder thriller that keeps the pages turning.  The twists and turns are good ones and leaves you suspecting almost everyone until the true killer is revealed. <br /> <br />This novel is definately one worth reading.  Here's hoping Baldacci gets even better in books to come.	2005-09-03
US	51049750	R3C4FXSUNCRCS5	0316710598	224255669	London Bridges (Alex Cross Novel)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	London Boring	Alex Cross is at it again traveling the globe and hunting down the evil Wolf.  This time the Wolf has threatened large scale destruction to 4 major world cities unless the various governments give him millions of dollars.  The countries are torn between saving their citizens lives and upholding long standing policies of refusing to negotiate with terrorists.  However, the Wolf is making his determination clear with murders along the way.  Alex is also determined - he hopes that his relentlessness will lead to the capture of the Wolf.    This is probably the most disappointing Alex Cross novel.  It plods along at a relatively slow pace for most of the book with an admittedly fast paced ending.  But the decent ending falls short of rescuing the first 90% of the book.  Alex seems to still be evaluating his role as a member of the FBI.  But so much of The Big Bad Wolf was dedicated to his uncertainty about his new job that the continued diatribe just seems a bit whiney.  This book also addresses his floundering love life, but it does not generate any sympathy, but more a sense that Alex is kind of pathetic.  New readers to Patterson cannot start with this novel.      There are so many references to prior installments that prior reading is required to have any clue as to what is going on in this novel.  I love this series and I hate to lambast this book, but it was simply disappointing.  The end was fun and reminded me of the earlier books in the series, but over all it seems that Patterson needs to wrap this series up and move on to something else because this story line is getting stale.	2005-08-28
US	51049750	R1KTCZZ4D8AKNW	0689859392	980662547	The Ironwood Tree (Spiderwick Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Leading up to the big finale	In this fourth book of five in the Spiderwick series, the Grace children remain troubled about the location of their Uncle Arthur's Guidebook about faeries.  Additionally, Jared gets in trouble at Mallory's school when he is found brandishing a pocketknife at a shape shifter that has taken on the appearance of a student.  When Mallory disappears after her fencing match, the boys follow clues that lead them to an old rock quarry operated by dwarves that make everything into metal objects.  The dwarves want the gudebook - can Jared and Simon save Mallory and themselves without turning over the book that they don't have? <br /> <br />This lead up to the final book gives us our first glimpse of the evil creature named Mulgrath that is attempting to take over the world and rid the earth of humans.  It also briefly shows us the Grace family interact with others at school instead of keeping entirely to themselves and the world of magic at Spiderwick Estates.  It is a good lead up to the series conclusion and makes the reader eager to find out what happens next.	2005-08-28
US	51049750	R2CCM1FETBEUIP	0689859384	132883743	Lucinda's Secret (Spiderwick Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another great installment	In Lucinda's Secret we find the Grace children nursing a griffen back to health in the barn, Jared still suffering from the pranks of the house Brownie, and continued questions and secrets surrounding Uncle Arthur and the faerie world.  They decide to visit their Aunt Lucinda in the sanitarium to see if she can provide any answers to these questions.  She is able to give them a glimpse into the disappearance of her father, their Uncle Arthur.  This leads them on another magical adventure in the area surrounding the Spiderwick Estate as they follow a map that could only have been made by Arthur himself. <br /> <br />This is anoher fun installment in the Spiderwick series.  The Grace children continue to rely on each other and use their clever wits to get them out of problem situations as they encounter magical creatures.  Some of the other fantasy series out there have a bit more depth to them, but this is a charming series with a lot of fun.	2005-08-28
US	51049750	RJGW7G0XKPG0M	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Formulaic	Terry aka Father Terry Dunn is living in Rawanda as a priest who hears confessions and occasionally presides over mass.  He has experienced the horrors of genocide and seen countless lives lost in war.  But when he receives word that his mother has died, it is time for him to travel back to America and face the demons of his past.  Enter a cast of thousands, all with colorful backgrounds, that somehow intertwine and affect Terry's efforts as a con man posing as priest. <br /> <br />I have only read 2 of Leonard's books - this one and Freaky Deaky.  They both seem to follow an identical pattern - good guy of questionable character, woman he falls in love with that may be shady herself, upstanding relatives that cannot understand why he isn't on the straight and narrow, bad guys of varying degrees of evil, and a master plot that could wind up targeting any of these people at any given time.   <br /> <br />The story is ok and light, but I am disappointed that it seems to follow the same formula as the other I have read.  It isn't bad, it isn't great, it is simply average with a touch of \\"haven't I read this before?\\"	2005-08-23
US	51049750	R20S6A86SP9PH2	0517033585	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Freaky allright	Chris is a cop in Detroit who is transferring from the bomb squad to sex crimes.  He never imagines that right off the bat in his new division he will come across a victim that completely enchants him.  But her complaint of rape leads him to be mixed up with a whole host of characters that are up to no good.  Written in 1988, the story and characters reference much of the activites of the 60s and 70s and all somehow relate to each other and the time they spent at the University of Michigan protesting and getting high.    Leonard winds an interesting tale and creates characters that are larger than life.  The best way to describe the story line is bizarre.  The reader cannot anticipate what will happen next, but at the same time, the twists are not cliffhangers, but simply twists.  This book is very hard to describe in that it is a quick read, but does not really suck you in.  It just kind of is.  It is worth the read, but I am curious to compare this to other Elmore Leonard books.  I am not sure that he is for me.	2005-08-18
US	51049750	R3GG7QK5SV0BMJ	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Joe Friday would have loved this guy	Goldberg is promoting the Dragnet concept in encouraging the media to give us \\"just the facts ma'am, just the facts.\\"  However, in this follow up to his book Bias, he points out that just the facts are hardly what news viewers and readers are getting from the media.  You don't believe it?  Real quotes from American media include: <br /> <br />\\"See George.  See George Learn Foreign Policy.\\"  - Newsweek headline. <br /> <br />\\"There are 60 million Catholics in America, and for many of them he also speaks with the voice of a conservative crank when he stonewalls on abortion, birth control, married priests, women priests and so on.\\"  - Washington Post reporter referring to Pope John Paul II. <br /> <br />It doesn't matter whether or not you agree with the above points of view, the simple fact is that they are slanted to express a particular point of view.  Goldberg does not pass judgment on these points of view, but uses them to illustrate that the media has these views and their bias is conveyed in their work.   <br /> <br />Should  Katie Couric march in a pro-choice rally and then cover the abortion issue on NBC and be expected to do so in an unbiased way?  When a student guns down professors and fellow students in a law school why does the media fail to inform the public that the students that ultimately subdued the gunman also were in possession of guns and that these guns were used in taking him down?  Is it because the media themselves do not support the right to arms? <br /> <br />Goldberg points out the inherent bias in what is overwhelmingly a liberal media.  He does not attempt to tell anyone what their position on an issue should be, but illustrates that the news that we receive from the media is slanted in one particular direction.  Goldberg encourages the media to be brave and report in a straightforward manner that encourages discussion from all perspectives.  This book is an eye-opener despite your personal values and will change the way you watch the nightly news or read the daily paper.	2005-08-12
US	51049750	R7YAOE5745Q3N	0802130240	557803621	Manson in His Own Words: The Shocking Confessions of 'The Most Dangerous Man Alive'	Books	4	32	35	N	N	His words are strangely compelling	Manson tells this tale from prison to former prison-mate Nuel Emmons.  He begins with his childhood and explains how he was abandoned by his mother and never knew his father.  He winds up in juvenile facilites at a young age and thus begins his life of incarceration.  His story moves on to his release in 1967 and how he adapts to the changes in the world while he was imprisoned.  It is at this time that he begins to attract young women and forms what becomes known as the \\"Manson Family.\\"  Finally, he concludes with his perspective of the murders that made him a household name.    What is oddly compelling is that Manson has a tendency to make a lot of sense - that is until you reread a particular paragraph and think about the inherent flaws in his logic.  But at first you will think, ok, I can understand why he broke the law there.....wait a minute!!  It is a fascinating look into the criminal mind and largely explains why criminals will continue to break the law and rationalize their behavior away.  Ultimately, the effect he had and continues to have over others is chilling.  He admits to at least some role in the murders, and through this admission shows how much control he had over the women that did his bidding.  How much of this is actually directly from Manson is debatable since he has discredited Emmons since publication.  However, strangely compelling, this book is a direct window into the brain of a very dangerous individual.	2005-07-31
US	51049750	R3N8OCNMI5CWA0	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Missed the mark	Nickel and Dimed is one woman's self study on low paying jobs and living accommodations in 3 cities in America.  The author began her journey in Key West, Florida as a waitress.  The first chapter of the book chronicles her attempts at finding employment and simultaneously finding a place to live that does not exceed her ability to pay but is still reasonable given her commute to work as well as personal safety.  Next she travels to Portland, Maine where she is employed both by a retirement home and a maid service.  Here she describes the physical difficulty with regard to the work as well as the difficulty making ends meet even with two jobs.  Finally, she finds herself in Minnesota in the ladies department at Wal-Mart.  This book is her investigation on the conditions of jobs that are low paying and how employees in these situations are (not) able to support themselves and their familes.    Ehrenreich has an admirable cause at heart by attempting to \\"live how the other half live\\" and give this experiment a try.  However it is disappointing in its execution.  Firstly, she begins the experiment with money to get herself started.  This, alone, is not a realistic way to begin to relate to the poor.  Secondly, at all times she has a car - either her own, or a rent-a-wreck.  I think the rent-a-wreck was supposed to help with her sense of humility so that she did not arrive to these jobs with a car that would out class her coworkers, but what she failed to simulate was the fact that most of her coworkers probably did not have a car of their own, but got a ride, walked, or took the bus.  Finally, in times of illness, she did not seek out long lines at free health clinics or wait for hours in expensive emergency rooms, but instead called a doctor friend of hers who called in a prescription from thousands of miles away.    All is not bad in this book.  Ehrenreich does an excellent job of opening the reader's eyes to the true problems of low wage jobs.  The housing market isleaps and bounds ahead of hourly saleries across America.  People who work in these jobs for a living do not have the skills nor the luxury to pick up and move on to something better if they are temporarily disgruntled with working conditions.  Many have to work two and three jobs to support a family that they never see because they are always at work in an effort to put food on the table.  But the down turn is that the author inserts herself into this situation in such a half hearted way and with such incomplete effort as to detract from the importance of her subject matter.    In the end, it seems that what Ehrenreich truly discovered was more about her own self and character than about those that work for $7 an hour.  The reader too learns much about the drive and perserverence of the author.  But is this what the book is supposed to be about?  I think not.  If you want something that truly gets it right, try to watch the very similar topic done on the show \\"30 Days\\" by Morgan Spurlock.	2005-07-27
US	51049750	R1RVBNKHADC1QL	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good, but not his best	Dress Your Family is enjoyable, but not nearly as good as Me Talk Pretty One Day.  Again, David Sedaris entertains the reader with humerous short stories about his life, family, and encounters with strangers.  His unique perspective and thoughts regarding these topics are entertaining and enjoyable.  He writes of his sister's affinity for animals and her preference for them over most humans.  David's parent's experience with renting apartments to tenants that qualify for subsidised housing is an comical narrative that portrays the stark differences between himself and his father.  The funniest short story is probably the recounting of how his mother shut the children out in the snow because she wanted time to herself.  And as before, the stories span his entire life, with some recounting childhood and others contemporary. <br /> <br />With Me Talk Pretty, I had tears streaming down my face and I was holding my stomach laughing to the point that I needed to put the book down in order to recover enough to read the next page.  Dress Your Family only ever got light chuckles.  The writing is still enjoyable and the stories pleasurable, but this book just does not compare to his other work.  Hopefully, this is only a temporary setback and readers will be able to find boastful laughter in future work.	2005-07-23
US	51049750	R8A1WEPLAPJ9Z	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Simply Amazing	Book 6 brings us the most well rounded of the stories.  It is a good balance between magic, adventure, romance, friendship, and everyday Hogwarts life.  Harry returns to school while the wizarding world is in chaos.  Everyone has been forced to admit that Harry was right and Voldemort is again alive and powerful.  But there are other evil powers at work doing The Dark Lord's bidding.  Harry is faced with the responsibility he has to the prophesy as well as thwarting the dangers that are right under his nose at school. <br /> <br />This book brings Dumbledore's relationship with Harry to all new levels.  Finally Harry sees himself as more of an equal than he has before.  This book is also an excellent bridge to the culmination of the series.  It is this installment that makes you feel as though you are truly a part of these characters lives and that you have known them your entire life. <br /> <br />No one review will be able to properly capture the essence of this book, nor will anyone be able to properly sum up the plot without either writing entirely too much or too little.  But in the end, no fan of the Harry Potter series will be able to read this book and not take away a feeling of pure enjoyment.	2005-07-19
US	51049750	R2RV76TU5CYJW4	0312335164	201960968	Digital Fortress: A Thriller	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Without wax, this is possibly Dan Brown's best	Susan Fletcher is one of the top code breakers working for the National Security Administration.  Her fiance is a professor at Georgetown.  Both have been called in on an emergency that threatens national security, but neither knows that the other is involved, nor that they are being manipulated.  The question is why and by whom??  The NSA has a top secret computer that is capable of breaking any encryption code and thus reading the secrets of everyone that transmits electronically - from the common housewife to the most complex terrorist.  But there are some out there that feel that this ability to walk in on a person's privacy is going too far and that NSA should come clean about their capabilities.  However there are high level employees that will stop short of nothing to make sure that this is a discovery never made.  But when a outside program takes over NSA's super computer, it is anybody's guess as to whom will wind up on top in the end.    Dan Brown has again mastered the art of a novel that travels at break neck speed.  He is also masterful at keeping the reader guessing about who the true villan is up until the last possible minute.  The twist and turns truly keep coming up through the last page of the book, and only those that finish the book will understand the complete picture, even including the title of this review.      Only those that work in the encryption field or possibly those at NSA would likely know how accurate the information in this book is, but it doesn't really matter for the purposes of enjoying the read.  The topic is fun and challenging and lends to a faced paced thriller.  This book is possibly Brown's best.  More scientific than this religion based novels, the characters are more likely to have the capabilites to live up to the tasks written for them and it is easier to suspend disbelief and just enjoy the ride.	2005-07-16
US	51049750	R1GTVB6YNHRP1V	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fun light read	James Patterson does it again with this third episode involving the dynamic 4 from San Francisco.  Lindsay is a police liutenant, Jill a prosecutor, Claire a medical examiner, and Cindy a reporter.  The four of them are again putting their heads together to try to solve the latest crime spree in San Francisco.  First there is an explosion that leaves a family dead.  That is followed by the poisoning of another person.  How are the deaths connected and what is motivating the killers?  Notes start arriving explaining that the killers will keep on killing until the Government takes responsibility for the oppressed and poor people throughout the world.  All of this is happening on the verge of the G-8 summit and high ranking law enforcement officials swarm San Francisco in an effort to put an end to the murders. <br /> <br />This is another entertaining installment in this series.  The plot is a bit contrived, but overall a page turner with plot twists that keep the reader interested.  Just once I would like to see a thriller with a female heroine not have to get involved in a romantic tryst in order to keep the story flowing, but Lindsay's personal relationship with the Deputy Director of Homeland Security is not a fatal flaw.  Overall the book is exciting and fun and perfect for summer reading.	2005-07-13
US	51049750	R99Q6CM58QA1	0385730586	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Friendship at it's finest	Four inseparable friends are going to be separated for the summer for the first time in their lives.  Bridget, the athlete, will be attending a prestegious soccer camp in Baja, California.  Carmen, the introspective, will be with her dad in South Carolina.  Lena, the beauty, will visit her grandparents for the first time in their native Greece.  Finally, Tibby, the misunderstood, considers herself banished to employment at the local drugstore.  What they share, however, is a pair of pants.  Seemingly ordinary jeans, these pants appear magical to the girls who each look terrific in them despite different body shapes.  They decide that each girl will spend a portion of the summer with the pants, periodically sending them along to the next in line along with thoughts, encouragement, and loads of friendship. <br /> <br />Each of the four has unique experiences throughout the summer that make them grow, both individually as well as a friend to the others.  Carmen's dad has a suprise for her that she could not have predicted and definately did not want, Lena's shyness gets her into trouble that she isn't sure she can get out of, Bridget's confidence and flirtation take her to places she wasn't ready for, and Tibby finds that all is not as it seems.  But despite their varying adventures and experiences, they remain the type of close and supportive friends that a girl can only dream of. <br /> <br />This book summarizes exactly what friendship is.  There is no one type of friendship - no relationship exactly the same - and Ann Brashares has encapsulated that very sentiment.  My only criticism is that there is no Wallman's drugstore in Bethesda, nor is their a Gilda's.  There is, however, an Embassy Suites in Friendship Heights, so why use a random location like Bethesda, Maryland and put in incorrect and random details?  However, only a Bethesda native would even have noticed this and it does not take away from the fantastic story.   <br /> <br />Friends of all ages will enjoy this book and see a part of themselves reflected in the pages.	2005-07-10
US	51049750	R2QJCY4RB0812J	0060987529	558936324	Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Fairytale with a Fairytale ending	What begins as a very slow start to an unconventional telling of the Cinderella story eventually wins the reader over into a novel that you can't wait to pick up.  Iris and her sister Ruth are born in England.  Their mother yanks them from their homeland in the middle of the night and returns to her hometown in Holland to escape from the evils that purport to haunt their family.  The remainder of the novel portrays their arrival in Holland and subsequent stay from Iris's point of view.  The family ultimately winds up in the home of Cornelius and Henrika van den Meers, parents of Clara, the most beautiful child anyone has ever laid eyes on.  Thus begins the story of how Iris meets \\"Cinderella\\" the belle of the ball. <br /> <br />Maguire continues his unconventional fairytale storytelling with Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister.  This perspective on a beloved story is fascinating and the reader cannot help but appreciate his imagination and point of view.  This particular novel, however, gets off to a very slow start.  Because the entire premise of the book is the unusual spin on the classic tale, the reader spends almost the first half of the book thinking, come on, when do we get to the part of the story that I am familiar with?  However, once we get there we are not disappointed because by then, we are in love with the new characters that have been introduced, and fascinated by the way that Maguire weaves them into a story that we thought we knew.  This book is extremely fun and light, and will not leave the reader disappointed.	2005-07-08
US	51049750	R3DK3KAIT8D12R	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A new perspective	Christopher is a 15 year old boy with a brilliant mind.  His ability to comprehend logic and math is nothing short of genius.  However, he is also autistic, and has extreme trouble when trying to understand human emotion, sarcasm, and other parts of everyday life that most people take for granted.  This novel is told from Christopher's perspective as he travels through his days and recounts his thoughts and observations.  Initially his story begins as he encounters his neighbor's dead dog and sets out to investigate who the murderer is in Sherlock Holmes style.  He is ultimately faced with the destruction of his parent's relationship and sets off on an adventure that even he is not sure he can survive.      This unique narrator gives the reader insight into how autistic individuals think and feel.  Christopher describes how he gets physically nauseous when confronted with too much visual stimulation, and how he cannot stand to be touched by others.  Certain colors bother him so much that he avoids all foods and objects of those colors.  When he doesn't get his way or is uncomfortable he groans or screams and throws a fit which scares and annoys the people around him.  But we also learn that unlike a spoiled child, he simply cannot understand why these reactions are inappropriate.  In fact, these outbursts are the only tools he has to effectively communicate his discomfort and dislikes.    There is a somewhat monotonous tone to the book and at times it is dry given that Christopher is not in tune with ordinary human emotion, but it is a fascinating look into the mind of someone that very few of us have an opportunity to encounter.  It gives perspective on the amazing amount of patience that is required to care for someone with autism on an everyday basis.	2005-06-30
US	51049750	R1QW2716JUIMD9	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	I have trouble forming words for this review because the book just didn't leave me with much.  It was mediocre at best.  The main character, Willie Traynor, moves to Ford County, Mississippi to work for a small weekly newspaper.  When the owner goes bankrupt he buys the paper and thus begins his future in Clanton.  The main focus on the legal thriller side of the book is a murder and rape of a widow that is witnessed by her two small children.  The perpetrator is a member of a powerful family that is into nothing legal.  The flip side of the book is the wide range of characters that Willie encounters in Clanton.  This, by far, is the more interesting portion of the novel.  However it is not until the reader is completely bored and disappointed with the murder trial that we realize that the book has something to offer.  The characters turn out to be highly sympathetic and entertaining, but too late in the book.  I do not know why I continue to buy Grisham's books because they have been so disappointing for so long.  At least this one had some redeeming qualities, but not many.	2005-06-27
US	51049750	R31DQMQ24XOOZ0	0399150439	893493496	Naked Prey	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Unbelievable	The plot of this novel is completely unbelievable.  And I don't mean in a good way.  Once again Lucas Davenport has been enlisted to solve a murder, but this one has huge social ramifications because a black man was strung up in a tree in a predominately white town in rural Minnesota.  The governor wants this mystery solved as quickly as possible before the press catches wind, Lucas wants to nail the bad guys.  During his investigation he meets Letty West, a young girl with a tough fighting spirit.  She knows the town better than anyone and helps Lucas to try to track down what is really going on. <br /> <br />This installment is just not up to par with previous Prey novels.  We know who the \\"bad guys\\" are well in advance of Lucas solving the crime and we watch to see if Lucas and friends can figure it out themselves.  But the plot is just too far fetched to be believed.  The small town criminals are too sophisticated and the town too entrenched with evil plan after evil plan.   <br /> <br />Overall, it was almost a chore to get through, except that it was easy relaxing reading and by book 14, I feel vested in Davenport and the stories involving him.  I'll try another, but this one was disappointing.	2005-06-25
US	51049750	RZQM6FK7G4AU1	0385750765	308642435	Edge Chronicles 4: The Curse of the Gloamglozer (The Edge Chronicles)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good but not great	In book 4 of The Edge Chronicles we are introduced to the parents of Twig, the hero of the first 3 books.  This book is actually a prequel and explains how Quint and Maris first met.  But just like the others in the series, this one is also full of mystery and adventure.  Maris' father, the Most High Academe, oversees all of Sanctaphrax and the academics there.  However, lately he has been distracted and no one, not even his beloved daughter, knows how he has been spending his time.  In fact, he has been so distracted that there are some in Sanctaphrax that are plotting to have him killed so they can take over.  What no one knows is that the Most High Academe has made a terrifying discovery that will threaten everyone, including Maris and Quint.  Can these new heros learn to get along long enough to save the Most High Academe and all of Sanctaphrax?? <br /> <br />This installment in the series is interesting, but it is not as fast paced as those that feature Twig.  Also, while it is nice to learn of Twigs parents, it is background and brings the flow of the series to a crawl.  Hopefully book five and the return of Twig will get the series back to where it began.	2005-06-19
US	51049750	R2AJ01ASQQ2SHT	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Eh......	Alex Cross is back, only now he is in training for the FBI in Quantico.  And it's just in the nick of time because women are being abducted in different cities and are suspected of being sold into sexual slavery.  Orchestrating all of this is a former KBG operative called The Wolf.  He is cunning and ruthless and will be Cross's biggest challenge to date.  Will Alex be able to convince the experienced FBI agents to trust the \\"new guy?\\"  Will he want to remain with the FBI or will he decide that he never should have left the Washington PD?  And will the reappearance of Alex's former lover and mother of his child spell trouble? <br /> <br />This installment is mediocre at best.  The pages turn, but not because it is good, but because it is an easy read.  It is enjoyable to continue to follow the Cross family, but this novel has no meat to it and at times is almost boring.  Each individual piece of the puzzle seems to fit together too neatly.  It is also completely unrealistic that Alex would be granted the open access and lead position in the investigation while still technically in training for the FBI. <br /> <br />I am going to stick with Patterson because of my history with his books, but I hope that this is only a temporary setback.	2005-06-16
US	51049750	R2PJON0OREFE06	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the best I've ever read	It has been a long time since I have found myself unable to put a book down like I found myself with this one.  The novel begins with Jack Forman reflecting on his Mr. Mom role shopping for placemats and carting the kids around during 6 months of unemployment after blowing the whistle on his Silicon Valley boss and his subsequent dismissal.  His wife has been working long hours and has been somewhat absent while developing new technology that could change the course of medical treatment and be a huge breakthrough in medical technology.  But Jack is beginning to suspect that things are not what they seem at her job - is she cheating on him, is she on drugs, is the project she is working on all it really seems?  Jack finds himself with an opportunity to go work at the remote Nevada development center as a consultant, but he never anticipated what he would find there.   <br /> <br />This book goes on to detail the scientific developments in the medical arena and explores the possibility of what could happen when computer programming, medical procedures, and genetic engineering meet.  In this instance, the potential is disasterous and Jack and his fellow scientists try to stop the run away experiment before too many people get hurt.  However, Jack doesn't know who he can trust - including his own wife. <br /> <br />Crichton is at his best here.  Some of the science is above my head, but it did not interfere with my ability to follow along with the plot.  Even though I was fairly confident that the main character would make it in the end, I still turned every page with my heart in my throat wondering how he would make it out of each new thrilling scrape.  I haven't read a page turner like this in a long time - I will continue to be a big fan of Crichton and his writing.	2005-06-13
US	51049750	R20X4AJBED139Y	0743260929	436711866	The Twelfth Card: A  Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Great twists and turns	Once again, Deaver mesmorizes and suprises through the great character Lincoln Rhyme.  In this installment a 16 year old girl from Harlem is attacked in the library at the African American Museum while researching her ancestors.  Rhyme and his fellow cops and investigators must figure out what secret Geneva's attackers are trying to keep a mystery.  At the same time it becomes clear that the attacker is not afraid of killing anyone who tries to get in his way.  Rhyme uses his brillant forensic skills to try to solve another dastardly caper. <br /> <br />Deaver is definately up to par with this newest Lincoln Rhyme book.  The twists are as good as ever and all of the great characters are back.  My only disappointment was with some of the writing related to the characters that are from Harlem.  Deaver tries to express their conversations in the street language of Harlem, but instead over uses words such as \\"benjamins\\" for money and characters being \\"down\\" as well as other colloquialisms that just don't work coming from him or his characters.  It's not that people don't speak that way, but in this book it seemed forced and an over the top effort at getting it right.  It made for some choppy reading and eye rolling, but not enough to detract from the overall plot and suspense. <br /> <br />Overall another great thriller from Deaver.  It continues to be fun to follow the professional and personal growth of this cast of characters.	2005-06-12
US	51049750	R3STF2XWSOE8KG	0743418204	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	5	0	3	N	N	The Shoe Fits	This novel is told from 3 perspectives.  Rose is a lawyer in Philadelphia who has always found herself to be a success in school and career while usually lacking in the fashion and relationship department.  Maggie, her sister, is beautiful with a perfect figure, but also has a learning disability and a bad attitude when it comes to expectations about her ability to succeed.  Ella is their estranged grandmother who lives in a senior development in Florida and regrets that she has not seen her grandaughters in the many years since her daughter, their mother, passed away.  What unravels from this threesome is the raw emotion that each feels regarding their own status in life as well as their feelings for each other.  Rose and Maggie have nothing but distain for each other on the surface, but have nothing but love deep down.  Ella simply wants to get to know the family that she lost so long ago, but is not sure if it is worth dealing with the emotions that will certainly accompany the reunion.  This book traces their individual developments and their highs and lows. <br /> <br />Anyone who has experienced even a minute of sibiling rivalry can relate to this story.  I was suprised to read some of the negative reviews after finishing the book considering I found while reading that my relationship with my own sister is so similar to that of Rose and Maggie.  The book is largly simplistic and fluffy, but still has enough grounding in reality to make it extremely enjoyable. <br /> <br />In some respects the characters have moments when they are shallow enough to be disappointing and trite.  For example, in some ways Rose feels what every woman feels at some point in her life - lonely, rejected, and unwanted.  However, when this is portrayed she sometimes is a disappointing oversimplistic stereotype of the overweight wanting single female.  Maggie too has her disapointing failures, being almost too much of a screw up to be belived.  In this sense, the writing is much like Weiner's first novel, Good in Bed.  However, the negatives are not enough to detract from what, overall, is a very fun and enjoyable read.  This book captures what sisters are.	2005-06-08
US	51049750	RQCMCHEQBBUD5	0316780375	480327121	The Weight of Water	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Not for me	Jean is a newspaper photographer assigned to shoot the Isles of Shoals and specifically the island of Smuttynose where a brutal double murder took place in 1873.  She researches and visits the island with her husband, daughter, brother-in-law, and his girlfriend.  Jean deals with questions of infidelity on the part of her husband, Thomas, and questions the strength of her marraige while visiting these islands.  Intertwined with this introspective is the story of Maren Hontvedt, the sole survivor of the murderous attack, and tales of her childhood, trip to America, and what really happened the night her sister and sister-in-law were killed. <br /> <br />Overall this book just didn't grab ahold of me.  The story was remotely interesting, but the way Shreve bounced back and forth between Maren's story and Jean's was distracting and took away from the narrative.  I think the two women were supposed to be compared and have their stories parallel, but it did not really work.  The outcome of the murder is incredibly predictable, and Jean does not come across as a sympathetic character at all.   <br /> <br />Shreve's novels are much acclaimed but I simply do not like them.  This is my second attempt after The Last Time They Met, and I guess they are just not my style.  I think this one had potential, but it missed the mark due to organization and writing.	2005-06-05
US	51049750	R25592E6D0XD3Q	0446608378	270870625	Thunderhead	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Informative and Fun	Nora Kelly is an archeologist who has spent her life in the shadow of her missing father's dreams.  Her dad disappeared while on a mission to find an ancient abandoned Native American city.  Nora stumbles across a letter from her father in the mail one day that was dated 16 years earlier.  She is forced to wonder, did he ever find the ancient city of Quivira and is he still alive??  Nora manages to get an expedition funded that will follow in her father's footsteps through the canyons of Utah.  What she does not know is that evil is following her and her group and will pose more of a threat than anyone could ever imagine. <br /> <br />This book is another great installment from Preston and Child.  The writing is fast paced and fun and the underlying information about the Anasazi tribe and the archeology lends credence to the tale.  Archeology buffs and fans of the thriller genere alike will enjoy this novel.	2005-05-31
US	51049750	R32CAWO7162Z3A	0345476131	466922023	The Third Secret: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	14	21	N	N	A great religious thriller	The Third Secret is a closely guarded prophesy handed down by an apparition of the Virgin Mary to a young shepardess in Fatima.  For years the young girl kept her secret, but it was ultimately written and translated to be kept safe in The Vatican.  This novel finds the current pope, Clement XV, involved in a battle over the direction of the Catholic Church.  Some are moving for change that allows for priests to marry and have families, some feel that the Church is already too progressive and needs to return to its more traditional dogma.  Clement's secrety, Monsignor Colin Michener finds himself in the middle of a battle between these two ideals with instructions to track down details regarding The Third Secret.  What he finds are powers stronger than he ever speculated that want the secret to remain a mystery and will go to any length to ensure that it stays that way.  During his adventure, he battles his own inner demons and feelings that he finds at conflict with his oath to the Church.    Comparisons to DaVinci Code and Angels and Demons are inevitable and not completely undeserved.  What is similar is the religious based plot line and the elements of both good and bad that are alleged to be involved in the inner workings of the Catholic Church.  However, the writing in The Third Secret is better than Dan Brown's.  This novel is not always as fast paced as Brown's, and it does not have as much \\"action/adventure,\\" but the thrill comes from the interplay between the characters instead of during a race from one ancient document or building to another.  In some ways this book is \\"smarter,\\" but fans of the Indiana Jones style of fiction may be disappointed.  All in all it is facinating to speculate that this type of manipulation and politicing takes place within the walls of The Vatican.	2005-05-31
US	51049750	R347CN6T0SC1WJ	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sit back, relax, and enjoy	This is a tale of a young boy who finds himself wrongly accused of stealing a pair of a famous baseball player's shoes that were donated for a charity auction.  Instead of going to jail, Stanley is sent to Camp Green Lake, a \\"camp\\" for troubled boys.  Once there he befriends others that, like him, found themselves in trouble with the law, but, also like him, are good kids with good hearts.  All the while, these boys are forced to dig holes in the barren, dried up lake with the hot sun beating down on them.  Camp Green Lake is run by a warden who is not interested in the boys, but seems to be looking for something buried in the ground.  What Stanley finds at the Camp includes tough working conditions that lead to his exhaustion and blistered bloody hands, but also results in good friendship and character building. <br /> <br />This book is a very entertaining read.  The bonds the boys make are endearing, but also are encouraging for other children that read this book.  At times the book seems a bit disjointed as there are flashbacks to some of the events that shape Stanley's fate, but these flashbacks also add much to the story and make for interesting twists and turns.  This book will be enjoyed by children and adults alike.	2005-05-23
US	51049750	R1RJAB3QX2OGLF	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Could have been worse......but not much	In this second installment of the Stephanie Plum series, Stephanie is attempting to track down a guy who was released on bail pending trial and failed to appear for his court date.  He is accused of shooting one of his friends in the leg.  Shortly thereafter the victim winds up dead, caskets go missing from the local mortuary, and a number of weapons are missing from a military instillation.  Once again, Stephanie finds herself lacking in her bounty hunter skills and bumbles through her efforts in finding her escapee all the while running into her nemesis, Joe Morelli, who she loves and hates all at the same time. <br /> <br />The story is fairly transparent and the dialogue is simplistic.  Stephanie does not even make for that great of a heroine since her self confidence is pathetic at best and she constantly puts herself down, or encourages herself with biting sarcasam.  However, some characters, like witty Grandma Mazur are entertaining and fun.  It's not the worst book in the world, but it's not great either.  If you want to continue because of continuity of characters, than you may enjoy this book.	2005-05-19
US	51049750	R7HBP2NCZ4FGT	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Modern Greek Tragedy	This is a tale of family, a tale of immigrant adjustment to early 20th Century America, a tale of a hermaphrodite....what???  Middlesex chronicles the evolution of the Stephanides family and how the generations progress from Greece to Detroit and adapt accordingly.  However that portion of the story is only an undercurrent for the story of the main character, Cal Stephanides.  Cal, born Calliope, was also born with other distinguishing characteristcs.  Her genetalia did not fully develop to be identified as either male or female.  She is raised as a girl, but lives her life always knowing that something about her just isn't quite right.  What follows is her account of her experiences, anxieties, and ultimate choices on how her abnormality would affect the outcome of her life. <br /> <br />Eugenides writes a brilliant and page turning novel that is engrossing on all levels.  The reader wants to learn more about every character all the while being curiously drawn by Cal's tale.  This book offers so much more than insight into the main character's tribulations, but also describes the interpersonal relations of a traditional Greek family and all that makes them the cultural and compelling people they are.	2005-05-13
US	51049750	R2W3WOTDQIARUA	0316781266	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Starcrossed lovers and their average tale	Linda is a poet who is reluctantly awaiting her participation in a writers convention where she will be reading from her work and answering questions.  She is not comfortable with the limelight and the novel begins with her trepidation before she attends the cocktail hour that kicks off the weekend.  What she is least expecting is running into fellow poet and former lover who will also be showcased at this event.  What follows begins with their hesitant rekindling of a relationship at age 52.  The middle portion of the book captures the state of their relationship at age 26, and concludes with the birth of their relationship at age 17.  The novel traces the triumphs as well as misery that their love endured but in this reverse chronological order, all the while revealing the true nature of their lives on the very last page of the book.    Anita Shreve has taken the classic love story and spun it into a unique creation by telling the story backwards.  Because of this distinct approach, it does take some time to get into the book.  It begins rather slowly and the characters do not grab your attention right away.  In fact, I did not find that they ever really did grab me and that I was more curious to see how the book was layed out then to actually find out what happened in the story.  Some of the language Shreve uses seems gratutitous at times and borders on using \\"big words\\" just to use \\"big words.\\"  She also distracts with her annoying use of italics.  While I am not disappointed to have read the book, I don't think I would have minded had I not finished.      Overall, the chronology is unique and interesting, but the story behind it is simply average.	2005-04-30
US	51049750	RA4EFCEZ83UJ2	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Average	Rachel Sexton works for the NRO - an intelligence agency located just outside of DC.  Its Director is a vocal opponent to NASA because of its security leaks.  Her father is running for President against the incumbant and has hinged his entire platform on the concept of NASA overspending the taxpayers money.  She abhors her father and finds herself in the middle of a scientific discovery that will change the world and her father's ruthless campaign that will be toppled by the discovery.  Add meteorites and murderous Delta Forces, and you have Deception Point.<br /><br />Does this description sound convoluted and ridiculous?  That's pretty much how Dan Brown's novel reads.  It's mindless entertainment, and the plot is just not very good.  Often I found myself saying, \\"Ok, please get to the point.\\"  This novel is not the \\"fast paced thriller\\" some of the reviews advertise, but it is not all bad.  Do not pick it up expecting an award winner, but instead something to read on the beach.  Angels and Demons and DaVinci Code are much better despite being \\"beach reads\\" themselves.	2005-04-26
US	51049750	R3VTW1W64OJH8P	0451159497	349965468	Sphinx	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ancient Egypt Meets Modern Day Evil	Robin Cook brings us a book of mystery and intrique set in modern day Egypt.  Erica is a 28 year old Egyptologist who has always wanted to visit the land that inspired her studies.  What she quickly finds upon arrival is that all of her training could not prepare her to deal with the powerful criminal element she encounters.  The novel traces her efforts to hunt down murderers, black market traders, and above all, ancient artifacts.  But all the while she finds herself in mortal danger not knowing who she can trust...if anyone. <br /> <br />This is not one of Cook's better books.  It is entertaining in a mindless kind of way, but the heroine is fairly weak and unbelivable.  Certainly in real life she never would have suceeded in her efforts, but that is not necessarily the point of entertaining fiction.  Overall, it is a fun read and a page turner, but it is not of much substance.  Cook's medial thrillers are the way to go instead of this attempt at historical fiction.	2005-04-23
US	51049750	R1V3UDWXHEGNJC	1400060931	583114583	Goat: A Memoir	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Interesting....not gripping	Brad Land's memoirs tell a tale of a college age man and the violence that he endures both at the hands of strangers and \\"friends.\\"  His story encompasses a brutal assault that occurs after he is abducted and winds its way through his fraternity pledging experience at Clemson University.  Land suffers violent attacks in both regards and this book tells the tale of his emotions, reactions, and ultimately his mental inability to properly cope with the feelings that stem from the assaults. <br /> <br />Land writes the story in an almost essay format that, at first, seems a bit choppy and distracting.  However, as the reader adjusts to the style it eventually becomes a powerful means of communication.  He portrays himself during this time of his life as very passive and detached which at times makes the reader less sympathetic to his plight.  It is almost as if one wants to reach out and shake him in an effort to get him to have some reaction - any reaction at all - to what is happening to him.  But this is probably not fair given that these events happened to him and only him and it is his story to tell. <br /> <br />Each individual reader must decide for himself whether the hazing Land endured is as bad as he chalked it up to be.  In the end, it is still an interesting read and a unique look into the phyche of a young man.	2005-04-20
US	51049750	RMGZ8F0C68ASA	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Strong follow up	In this sequel to The Alienist, Caleb Carr begins the novel with a dialog between returning characters Stevie and John Moore.  Typical of their characters in the first book, the two men place a wager on who could write a better story - Moore writing of the serial killer they tracked in The Alienest, or Stevie writing of Libby Hatch, the killer that forms the basis of this book.  What unravels in the next 700 pages is the story of a woman who killed children in an era where people could not believe that a woman could have that kind of evil in her.  All of the characters from the first novel have returned to fight crime and solve the mystery once more.  The detective brothers make use of their advanced education in evidence analysis, the Doctor lends his unique insight into the minds of criminals, Cyrus remains the Doctor's loyal friend and associate, and Sara Howard lends her femine touches to the investigation. <br /> <br />Again, Carr has written an exciting historical novel - the page turning story is supported by insight into the resources that police and forensic psychiatrists had, but more often did not have at the turn of the century.  It is an analysis of the early examinations of women and their role in crime.  The characters are fun and welcome in this second installment.  Adjusting to Stevie as the narrator does take some time if you have recently read The Alienist, but ultimately this perspective works.  In the end, it will likely be a personal choice as to whether John or Stevie wins the bet with the better writing, but even if one book is better than the other, both are well worth the read.	2005-04-18
US	51049750	R2WLDS1I9TX5QB	0525947914	590450510	Just One Look	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Just not that good	Grace Lawson picks up her developed roll of film only to find a strange 15 year old picture of her husband and friends stuck in the middle of the roll.  When she confronts him with it he leaves the house and disappears without a trace.  Drama involving bad guys ensues.  The remainder cannot be easily described because it is completely unbelievable, and not in a shocking suspensful way.   <br /> <br />This was my second attempt at a Coben book and I have confirmed that I'm just not a fan.  His books are mindless entertainment which is fine with me, but the plots are ridiculous to the point of distraction.  Just One Look's story is so contrived that it makes it difficult to enjoy.  I'm a big fan of the \\"whodoneit\\" genre, but Coben is not for me.	2005-04-12
US	51049750	R3F64P3PBY8AWH	0385413041	956782258	Beach Music	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Classic Southern Charm	This character driven novel does an excellent job of portraying a dysfunctional family that will make yours seem textbook perfect.  But the biggest accomplishment is the amazing depth of characters that surround this family in small town South Carolina. <br /> <br />Jack is the oldest of 5 brothers born just outside of Charleston, South Carolina.  His mother is dying of cancer, his father is the town drunk, and Jack has vowed never to speak to any of his family again.  He has also sworn off all of his childhood friends that remind him of an era long gone.  However, the best laid plans are often changed by the will of those closest to us.  Jack finds himself facing his childhood demons, all the while trying to protect his daughter from them.  But he is forced to ask - is he really helping or hurting her by keeping her from his zany family.   <br /> <br />The novel does some jumping chronologically when telling the story, but it is not distracting.  The reader enjoys Jack's reflection on the terrible and wonderful ways that his parents influenced his growth, as well as the close friendships he experienced as he came of age.  Pat Conroy's book will make you laugh and cry, but mostly keep you turning the pages wishing for more.	2005-04-06
US	51049750	R35ZKELP88V6WZ	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Let yourself get lost in Narnia	Narnia, a magical world, beckons four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy, into it's realm through the back of a wardrobe.  Through this wardrobe the children find adventure and magic like nothing they could have ever imagined.  It is in Narnia that they come into contact with Aslan the Lion who bestows upon them the tools and confidence they need to become the rulers of the country.    The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is a fantastic children's tale, but one that holds special meaning for adults as well.  I read this as a child, re-read it in my early twenties, and now have enjoyed it during yet another decade.  Each time I read it I pick up on new symbolism and meaning and get even more out of it.  The parallels to Christianinty are more apparent with each reading and yet one can easily get swept up in the story.    This classic is to be cherished by young and old alike and a great story for parents to enjoy with their children not once, but over and over.	2005-04-03
US	51049750	R2IPGLW71V06ZO	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Phenomenal	Words cannot even begin to describe this moving and utterly fantastic book.  It is a love story; it is the story of a strong, rich, and united bond as never written before.<br /><br />Clare and Henry are best friends, lovers, spouses.  He met her when he was in his early twenties.  She met him when she was only six.  This anomaly?  He has a genetic disorder that allows him to time travel.  He does not know of any others with this disorder nor why he has been given this \\"talent,\\" but he makes his way through life never knowing when or where it will happen and when or where it will take him.  The constant, however, is Clare.<br /><br />This novel chronicles their lives and their coping with Henry's strange affliction, but all the while builds an amazing love between the two that is to be envied.  Niffenegger's writing is strong and smart.  This is truly a book that cannot be put down and at the end you are left wishing there was more, but knowing that it is already perfection.	2005-03-27
US	51049750	R25E7O7XP8A6TR	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Facinating and informative	Mary Roach has managed to expose readers to an informative and scientific look at human cadavers all with a reverential outlook.  This book identifies the many ways that cadavers are used for a variety of things from medicine to car safety.  It also identifies the many different ways bodies are used when donated for scientific research purposes.  At the same time, it incorporates a sophisticated humor that entertains the reader and keeps the pages turning without disgracing the deceased indivduals who have found themselves the subject of this book. <br /> <br />This book will appeal to the interests of many different readers, and will undoubtedly make you think about the direction you would like your body to go in once you have passed on.	2005-03-20
US	51049750	R315H10RNDSEJM	0312289588	284552075	Scarecrow	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Outlandish and fun	Matthew Reilly did exactly what he set out to accomplish in writing Scarecrow.  He interviewed that he wanted this Shane Schofield novel to be \\"faster and completely out of control!\\"  He did just that with this book. <br /> <br />This episode finds us following Scarecrow into a typically harrowing adventure - trying to save the world all the while being hunted by every bad guy on the planet.  By page 25, Scarecrow is using his trusty maghook to save his rear end from yet another scrape.   <br /> <br />As with his other books, Reilly completely overuses italics to stress words that the action naturally stresses, and the storyline is completely over the top and unbelievable.  I am also not sure that \\"shoomed\\" is an actual word, but somehow Reilly makes it work.  This is another fun and fast paced success that you will enjoy from cover to cover.	2005-03-07
US	51049750	RIZYVMANMQ7GQ	1563523302	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Should be required reading	This look into America's wealthy is enlightening and motivating in ways I did not anticipate.  The authors point out that your neighbor who drives a Lexus and lives in a large home in a high priced neighborhood is likely to be house poor and as poor a manager of money as someone who can't afford to buy a home.   <br /> <br />This book stresses the importance of frugality and instilling strong money management in your children instead of providing high priced items and homes for them.  More importantly, it stresses that it is possible to change the way you spend and save money and that you can change your economic future.   <br /> <br />This book gives hope to the everyday person and illustrates that it is not essential to make over six figures in order to retire as a wealthy person.  The little guy can make it and retire a millionaire.  This book should be required reading for every college student and young adult.	2005-02-28
US	51049750	RIJEB6DMAELQQ	0743274857	977134384	Memorial Day	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The West Wing meets 24	In this latest Mitch Rapp installment, terrorism goes nuclear and Rapp must use his skills as a CIA operative to attempt to stop them before Washington, DC and the surrounding area is destroyed.  All of this happens amongst election-year politics and Rapp's efforts at saving the world are frustrated by those who only understand political considerations, not real life terror threats. <br /> <br />Once again, Vince Flynn's writing packs a punch and this is another page turner.  As is typical, some of the plot is a bit unbelievable, but that is part of what makes it so fun and exciting.  This is a perfect read for the beach or a lazy weekend.	2005-02-21
US	51049750	R3K1F570MHXCXU	0743453964	213780897	Executive Power (Mitch Rapp)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another exciting installment	Once again Vince Flynn takes us into the world of a CIA secret operative otherwise known as an assassin.  Mitch Rapp leads us through another fun, fast paced adventure as he travels the world hunting down the terrorists that threaten America's safety.   <br /> <br />This novel is a fun and exciting thriller.  While it is a bit over the top at times, it is a good portrayal of the considerations that the CIA and other government leaders have to evaluate when faced with the threat of global terrorism.  It also captures the political forces that attempt to interfere with international relations.	2005-02-19
US	51049750	REFWV31CN5C52	0871138344	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	4	2	2	N	N	True story that reads like a novel	This compilation of the lives of both Robert Hanssen, FBI agent turned soviet spy, and Louis Freech, former head of the FBI, is a true story of their backgrounds and how their lives ultimately intersect leading to Hanssen's arrest.   <br /> <br />Vise's book is fast paced and well written.  He explores each individual's background and explains how they both arrive in the FBI.  His writing contrasts the differences between Freech and Hanssen and shows how they come together with Freech overseeing the operation that brings Hanssen's spying days to and end. <br /> <br />This is a great book for those that are interested in the FBI, spys, and true crime, but yet is not overly detailed to the point where it could become boring.	2005-02-12
US	51049750	RNLS52N5NTQQC	0440416795	664001530	Harriet the Spy	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Children's book at it's best	Louise Fitzbaugh's book involves an 11 year old girl with a fiercely independent streak who doesn't realize how dependent on others she actually is.  Her goal is to become a world famous spy and considers herself \\"working\\" when she wanders around the city spying on others and recording all of her observations in her notebook.  What she discovers through her travels is how others can be hurt by her words and also how much she needs her friends and family despite her initial opinion that she needs no one but herself. <br /> <br />Fitzbaugh's writing pulls the reader into the story and allows you to identify with exactly what the main character, Harriet, is experiencing and feeling.  It is a perfect encapsulation of exactly how a girl that age is feeling and the range of emotions young girls deal with as they are trying desparately to join the adult world while retaining their childhood fun. <br /> <br />This book will be enjoyed by readers of all ages.	2005-01-30
US	51049750	RYX2MN6I91NHL	0743269977	481410188	George Stella's Livin' Low Carb: Family Recipes Stella Style	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Simply Fantastic	Stella's cookbook is, BY FAR, the best in the low carb category.  The recipes are extremely easy, delicious, and made with normal, ordinary ingredients.  The most outrageous ingredient is probably soy flour, which is hardly odd or difficult to locate in any grocery store. <br /> <br />The tequila chicken is my favorite so far, but everything has been phenomenal.  A cook of any level will enjoy making these recipes and everyone around the table will enjoy eating them!	2005-01-23
US	51049750	R110S62ZY9QA9E	0312981260	559539342	Temple	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Completely unbelievable and yet thrillingly entertaining!	William Race is a professor at NYU that gets drawn into a high stakes game that turns deadly for many of the players.  Competing groups, some military, enter into the Amazon Rainforest and battle nature, natives, and even each other on a quest to recover an ancient idol that is thought to have otherworldly properties that could be used to create an extremely powerful nuclear weapon.    This novel is extremely fast-paced and a real page turner, but the exploits of the main character are completely unbelievable.  If you can suspend reality and just settle back for an entertaining read, then you will absolutely get lost in this book.    My only real complaint is that this author, as demonstrated by his other works as well, completely over uses italics in an effort to place emphasis on words.  It actually gets distracting.  As for plot, in all of his books the main character always rescues himself with a grappling hook of all things.  It seems trivial, but these two items are oddly annoying.  Overall, however, this book is a ton of fun!  When's the movie?	2005-01-23
US	51049750	R2HR5G1EDGKDTH	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Enjoyable, but not fantastic	This novel surrounds the lives of four seniors at Princeton.  It follows their interpersonal relationships as well as the basis for the plot - the Hypnerotomachia.   <br /> <br />The Hypnerotomachia is an ancient book that has not been successfully interpreted by any scholar of the ages.  Paul, one of the four, has chosen this book as the subject of his senior thesis.  What transpires throughout the course of The Rule of Four, involves mystery, deceit, and death spurred by a thirst for knowledge as well as greed. <br /> <br />This book is fast paced and entertaining, but not fantastic.  There is decent character development, but just when you are finding yourself enjoying the characters and getting to know them, there will be a subplot that makes you think they are shallow and lacking.  The subject matter of the Hypnerotomachia is facinating, but at times almost too complex for the average reader.  The quality has it's highs and lows, but overall it is an enjoyable read.	2005-01-19
US	51049750	R3VV51NX6T0RJI	0841501807	861698949	The Rocksburg Railroad Murders	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting start.....will it get better?	Like another reviewer, I also discovered this book and series by reading the afterword in Stephen King's \\"From a Buick 8.\\"  I figured any favorite of King's is a favorite of mine.  This book begins a series of detective novels that are set in Rocksburg, Pennyslavania and feature Chief of Police Mario Balzac.  It is also the debut novel for K. C. Constantine. <br /> <br />The story involves a murder at a railroad station and how the Chief and others in law enforcement attempt to solve it.  More importantly, the book focuses on the characters and the story is really more about the people in Rocksburg and their \\"small town\\" lifestyle than the crime itself. <br /> <br />For true mystery fans, this book may be somewhat of a let down.  The crime fighting is simplistic at times, and Chief Balzac seems to miraculously come to the right conclusion easily without much evidence or effort to back him up.  However, the characters are fun and the book is short, so you will not have to invest too much time if you were looking for the crime novel of the century. <br /> <br />I would absolutely recommend this book and I am willing to continue in the series, but I do not know that I am sold for the whole lot.  I am particularly eager to see if these books advance in plot and substance as Constantine's writing develops and as they progress through the years.  Whether they parallel the changing times or remain stuck in the early 70's mentality remains to be seen.	2005-01-13
US	51049750	R1G7MIT6HPXSLB	0385750722	603846221	Edge Chronicles 3: Midnight Over Sanctaphrax (The Edge Chronicles)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Best in the series!	In book 3 of The Edge Chronicles, we again travel with Twig, the Sky Pirate Captain, and his crew through another fun filled adventure.  In this book, Twig receives information that will affect the future of Sanctaphrax, and possibly all life on The Edge.  He must act quickly, or life as they know it will come to an abrupt halt.  This page turner follows Twig in his efforts to save himself, but more importantly, his fine and loyal friends.<br /><br />This novel is far and away the best of the series thus far.  In addition to the well told story, we get a closer glimpse into the personalities of the individual characters that we are learning to enjoy.  Here's hoping that the rest of the series continues to build with the success we have seen this far!	2005-01-09
US	51049750	R20PCJ8UNGPH0M	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Enjoyable - though not as good as usual	In this Scarpetta installment we continue to experience Kay's mental unraveling after all that has happened since Benton's death and the attack on her by the wolf man.  This episode, however, is not nearly as faced paced or intriguing as most of Cornwell's work.      This novel almost seems as though it is meant to be more of an inside glimpse into the heart of the characters as opposed to simply being another spine tingling thriller.  On the face of things, this book is disappointing, but I think that it might wind up being a piece of the Scarpetta series that is important in understanding the characters and why they do what they do.  I hope that I am correctly guessing at the redeeming qualities, because otherwise we are left with only an unbelievable plot and a rushed and disappointing ending.    This also seems to be the novel that will transition the series away from Richmond and the ME's office.  Hopefully, this is just the beginning of a new direction for Scarpetta and not her undoing.  I recommend this book, but not for new Cornwell readers.  As always, it is crucial to start at the beginning.	2005-01-08
US	51049750	RV7RP6YO6MVC1	0842384065	66971145	Soon: The Beginning of The End (Underground Zealot)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Entertaining start to a new series	America after World War III is a vastly different place.  It is divided into 7 large States, technology has significantly advanced, and no one is permitted to practice organized religion.  As with any activity that is banned, there is always an underground movement afoot.  This is where we find Paul Diapola, the main character in this novel.  He finds himself torn between the only way of life he has ever known and the temptations of the New Testament. <br /> <br />This book has the same fast paced page-turning story telling of the books in the Left Behind series, however it was a bit strange getting adjusted to the state of America and the world at first because it is so vastly different from what is described in the early stages of the Left Behind books, especially given that the premise is that this series of events leads up to the End of Times and the Rapture where Left Behind begins.  However fans of Jerry Jenkins and his entertaining writing will not be disappointed.   <br /> <br />This book is not likely to win any awards for superior literature, but the story telling does not disappoint and this book is overall a very entertaining read.	2005-01-02
US	51049750	RZ0J65EXRY9ZE	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	2	10	21	N	N	A Disappointment	I was rather bored during the reading of this book.  The story the author tried to tell was interesting, but told in a slow and dull manner.  What some may find descriptive, I found horribly boring and I repeatedly found myself saying GET TO THE POINT.	2004-12-27
US	51049750	R1TDLKL88X8WSI	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	3	5	18	N	N	Not a strong ending	This book just didn't live up to my expectations.  I still enjoyed it, but it was not as strong as the others in the series.	2004-03-31
US	51049750	R27IZA6Q1LV180	0375507507	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	2	13	37	N	N	Don't Let's Read this Book - Ever	A topic which held such promise was a bitter disappointment.  The story struggled along, largely because it was very difficult to follow her chronology or lack thereof.  So much was left out regarding the war and social struggle of the time in an effort to spotlight her family, that it left me wanting to know more about the country and times in order to understand what her family was going through.  Fuller bounces around from one time in her life to another without any consistency.  Overall, this book was just very boring and there was nothing to grab onto as a reader.	2004-02-16
US	51049750	R2MCILNS63E6WR	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A Bitter Disappointment	This was certainly not Baldacci's best work.  Being a huge fan of his, I had high hopes for his newest thriller, but it was a let down from the first page.  I had to force myself through the whole book, only to find out that the ending was supremely canned.  The story line did not grab me despite this being my favorite genere.  In fact, I read the whole book feeling as if I had read it before - there was nothing original or interesting about the plot or characters and it left me wishing I had picked up something else instead.  I can only hope that this is his only low point in his writing, because ordinarily his books are real page turners.	2004-01-04
