US	51048130	R5GN5PC5IVJ87	0684839369	638846023	Living with Death and Dying	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A very insightful and sympathetic written work that explores humanity and humanism by way of living with death and dying.	The data and writings of Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross are really perceptive and affecting, because they show the living what can be possible versus what just is, as well as how life can and should be lived: to the fullest and most meaningful way possible. And with all Kubler-Ross's previous books, Living with Death and Dying is no exception. In this, her fifth book, she looks at the progression of palliative care by way of parent-pediatric involvement (see Section III, Parent Care: Total Involvement in the Care of a Dying Child). In it, a mother movingly recounts the dying of her daughter with leukemia and all the stresses that were attached to the situation. But what mitigated the sadness of the inevitable was the direct involvement of the parents in the care of their daughter to the bitter end. And where a loss of this magnitude can often cause separartion and ulitmately divorce, the unified confrontation by the husband and wife and the other healthy child (in this particular case), actually solidified the nucleus of the family; the bond became tighter and unbreakable, which was very nice to know. But though the loss was understandably painful, it was also a gift, for it brought about a heightened acuteness of love and living, not just through words but by actions and the uncommon stepping outside of the 'comfort' zone of their day-to-day reality. Also interesting was the in-depth exploration of drawing-analysis of the soma (the body) and the psyche (the soul) in regards to terminally-ill patients and those deeply psychologically wounded (read Section II, The Use of Drawings Made at Significant Times in One's Life). It is a great illustration of nonverbal communication and truly eye-opening when you explore the 'hidden' messages that are not as concealed as one might think. Because of the merciful candidness, courage and knowledge of patients, families, clergy and medical staff, like Elisabeth Kubler-Ross, among others, they have mentally brought readers to the brinkof death by their own experiences and observations. Through death and dying, they have taught that openness and candor are imperative and that compassion and goodness does not have to begin when death and dying enters the scene.	2005-09-04
US	51048130	R5X48GKGPTWRR	0684839393	951458235	On Children and Death: How Children and Their Parents Can and Do Cope With Death	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A stellar work in the area of child psychology and death, a gift for bereft parents.	The death of a child is a horrific and heartrending moment in a parent's life, a time where no words can be used, because it is totally inexpressible. Yet, somehow, Dr. Elisabeth Kubler-Ross does find the words, and she does so by doggedly and mercifully examining children and death. By her own direct involvement as a thanatologist as well as through a series of letters by bereaved parents who have lost children by way of terminal illness, sudden death, murder or suicide, they open their hearts, and in the process of doing so, they reveal psychological and religious elements of their children, premonitions and preparatory acts before acknowledged death to an acute maturity and understanding of themselves and their situations. A role inversion-depending on the age level-frequently happenes, whereby the little patient becomes the comforter for their family who must temporally remain behind in the \\"cocoon,\\" a most comforting euphemism indeed. Read the story of \\"Edou\\" in the segment, The Spiritual Aspects of Work with Dying Children for specific clarity. But what Kubler-Ross stresses is communication, getting the feelings out, not immediately mollifying the topsy-turvey senses with instant self-medication, for more-often-than-not, that can only compound the psychological stresses that can easily fracture with devistating repercussions, as is illustrsted with the examples at the beginning of the book. Also addressed in conjunction with communication and open dialogue is family involvement with the dying process, letting the siblings be exposed to their older or younger brother/sister's dying, unless they make it concretely evident that they are not emotionally ready for that step, which is perfectly fine and understandable. It is about pacing, self-acceptance and sympathetic exposure to what is for most of us a mind-numbing experience. But it does not have to be that way. And Kubler-Ross cites numerous examples throughout On Children and Death, instancing how the funeralindustry is evolving for the better as well as humanistic/ holistic expressions via arts, crafts and musical aid in smoothing the rough edges of suffering and self-created mental torment. Yes, grief and unbelieveable pain will exist, but it does not have to dominate, for God is certainly in the equation, for He knows all, sees all and feels all, and Kubler-Ross, wonderfully, blatantly, lets that be known, for as a friend contributed to this volume: \\"To me, religions are like the spokes on a wheel; they all lead to the hub--at-oneness with God (P. 204). How true! How true!	2005-08-23
US	51048130	R1U51ZSD1IF7N9	0684839415	487106199	Death: The Final Stage of Growth	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A work that explores death from a cultural, sociological and multi-religious point-of-view.	Death: The Final Stage of Growth is an especially enlightening work not simply because of the varied and knowledgeable contributed views to this particular volume, but because it approaches death and dying not from a scientific or psychological standpoint, but rather, from a cultural, sociological and mixed religious context. The essays that focus on the Eskimo, Jewish, Hindu and Buddhist approach to death and dying are deeply taken into account, as are their rituals, their cultural approaches and their belief systems. But though all the faith approaches differ in one way or another, the unifying human elements are-for the most part-a consistent grief, fear, faith of a higher authority and the oncoming trials and tribulations that dying can and will entail, all of which unites us. Dignity should begin at the conception of life, and it does not cease until the last breath is taken and arrangements for what follows are respectfully set up. But in many cases, as illustrated in the section entitled: \\"The Organizational Context of Dying\\" by Hans O. Mauksch, once a person is diagnosed as having a terminal illness and thus becomes a full-time patient, (s)he, after stripping and handing over their possessions, is banded like a piece of property They then are quickly yet efficiently-like in the military or in religious life-slowly deloused of their sense of autonomy; they are gradually assilimated to the institution. And their physical and mental definitions are not fully acknowledged. It is not done out of spiteful cruelty, just ignorant insensitivity. But through psychological studies-as done by Kubler-Ross as well as others in the field-and radical restructuring in pallative care, hospitals are really no longer deemed as the menacing sick houses of olden times. Rather, the patient as a whole is acknowledged, not merely the physical self. The soul, the intelligence, the humor and wisdom. The \\"all\\" of the person is taken into account, and as that is so, the hospital environment in its own right changes for the better. But it stems from communication and compassion and facing what for almost all of us is the ultimate and insurmountable phobia. All in all, Death: The Final Stage of Growth is another excellent and necessary Kubler-Ross offering.	2005-08-18
US	51048130	R1TU0S4LYJG689	0684839377	239687299	Questions and Answers on Death and Dying	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A straightforward and compassionate  follow-up to On Death and Dying.	Questions & Answers on Death and Dying is an extremely helpful resource to those who are bereaved or are on the cusp of being so. It is also a good introductory book, as was its predecessor-On Death and Dying-to the area of counseling psychology, specifically thanatology, the study of death and dying, for there are many issues in the dying process that are addressed: nonverbal symbolic language, prolongation of life, sudden death, suicide and terminal illness, fear, faith and hope to old age and just plain coping. Encompassed in the very latter, coping-wise, is not simply the patient and family but also the medical staff. The dynamics of dying have a process and to witness a loved one going through that process is obviously painful; it is the agonizing but inevitable hurt that no one wants to go through. But it can and will make the living stronger. This work in particular is helpful in many respects, because it is not necessarily a \\"how-to\\" guide on how to grieve or cope; it simply tries to answer the most fundamental and frequently asked questions that people have in respects to death and dying, i.e. emotional and physical pain, loneliness, anger against God and healthy people and finding some caliber of meaningfulness in their life while simultaneously being in the throes of the dying process. The questions asked are sincere, moving and eloquent. The dam of curiosity is opened, and Elizabeth Kubler-Ross eloquently answers all questions, even ones we would not even think of asking. Her insightful and kindhearted responses go to the core of what we're all essentially curious about; she herself admits that in doing this work, it has created a religious belief system that she believed was nonexistent, as one question illustrates: \\"In all your research on death, what is your personal belief of what happens after death?\\" \\"Before I started working with dying patients, I did not believe in a life after death. I now do believe in a life after death, beyond a shadow of a doubt.\\" What is so nice about this book is that it is a gap filler to the first book. What Elizabeth Kubler-Ross started with in On Death and Dying, the general public-the living and the dying (by their questions)-completed with Questions & Answers on Death and Dying; it went full circle, and it reads as such. This is a valuable work to have. Many, many topics are addressed, and there is no compassionate condescension or nihilistic overtones, just truth, information and loving understanding.	2005-08-16
US	51048130	R15TM4IAKA9QS6	0684839385	478527667	On Death and Dying	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A work that is compassionately direct yet psychologically and spiritually humane.	For most of us, the area of thanatology is something quite new, despite the fact that death is such an intimate \\"companion\\" that can come at any moment of our lives, whether by degrees or instantaneously, irrelevant of our ethnic, social and economic backgrounds. It is a plain truth that can not be avoided, and no technological advancements can make it go away. I would personally like to consider death as the ultimate best friend who would never desert you, despite what your feelings may be. And as a child has the innocent ablity to humanize a doll or a toy soldier, the adult must equally do so with death, not shy away from it and be totally uncommunicative to what it means: the total cessation of physical life, for if one denys its existence and its inevitability, the person could not only suffer from added unnecessary physical heartache, but he or she could also augment the physical stress with mental, spiritual and religious grief as well. Submission to and acceptance of the truth, no matter how difficult it would be to hear, could be the highest catharsis that medicine could not come close to healing. In Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's classic study of the dying process, she interviews patients of various age brackets who teach the living what dying means to them. But even though the experience is individualistic to that specific person, the process of dying has a universality to it which connects us all. Hence, how do you take the sting from the wound? In On Death and Dying, you remove the sting by communication and by simply being there to let the patient say what he or she has to say, to let them vent, and at their own pace, go through the classic defined stages of the dying process: denial and isolation, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. The patients become our teachers. We learn of their fears, their possible financial burdens, in one woman's case, the fear of the worms, et cetera. But we also learn about what the families go through, their own anger and disbelief and guilt. It is about pacing and the opening up of repressed fear for all the people involved. Sometimes there is cohesion in the shock and anger, other times not. The United States is one of the most death-denying countries out there, a fact most evident with plastic surgery on the rise and chiseled bodies to reverse the aging process, for going foward means only one thing: death. Ross's overall message is that death does not have to be and is not the horror that we all think it is, the grim reaper with the skeletal hand and the sharpened scythe. Death has issues for everybody, doctors, faith-filled people, even Ross heself. It is a step that we are all going to take sooner or later. But it is comforting to know that we are all in it together.    <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-12
US	51048130	R15NVCN3YJGIOP	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	3	2	9	N	N	The Stone Diaries is a semi enjoyable read, which is unfortunately mired by the deliberate use of  mediocrirty as a core theme	Simple acceptance of the \\"norm\\" is sometimes the bull-eye's mark to our own untimely demise, if not physically, than definitely psychologically. And such is the outright example of Daisy Stone Goodwill in The Stone Diaries, a literary work of human inventiveness that cannot fully be criticized, because the author used a somewhat unacknowledged and palling aspect of social history. So, in truth, the main character of The Stone Diaries is not totally Daisy Stone Goodwill but rather the background of her times, the pre-Eisenhower era and beyond. Two stories are being told, and one character is the sole representative of a whole generation. That fact alone makes the work rather weighty in its numerous messages, and there are many. Yet, the character of Daisy is severely stunted, a kind of souffle that never fully rises, despite all the signs of promise, for it is either lack of courage to break away or it is fatalistic acceptance of her lot or both. She is a woman hindered by the molding cast of her period, a Stepford housefrau who fights not be catagorized as such, especially after she is widowed from Barker and slowly evolves into the dearly beloved Mrs. Green Thumb, the garden columnist for the local paper, The Recorder. But that alone is her peak, her fifteen minutes of fame, and it all becomes downhill after that, which for me, does not seem humanly realistic and true. Human dynamics is very interesting, and The Stone Diaries just does not go deeper enough. What is offered is just a thin veneer of a historical truth, and Carol Shields only scratched the surface to something that could have made the book such a promising work of fiction. There is a seething undertone of anger and bitterness, clearly manifested when Daisy, though unspoken, states: \\"I am not at peace.\\" Genuine human resiliency and the elemental consistency of self-use in place time and manner is not fully approcahed but is only gawked at from afar. And she can not take responsibility for that, for herown path, for it is her family's fault and her times. Obligation, dutifulness, repression and nothing more. The characters turn into unsympathetic, carping weaklngs who live up to a false image, an untruth and not what is burning within themselves. The only congruity throughout the novel is its unrealistic flatness of characters and environment. The Stone Diaries is a literary practice in the art of overkill.	2005-07-11
US	51048130	R2W11XFEO61TO4	B00005XNAU	308104235	Light on the mountain; the story of La Salette	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A fascinating and poignant narrative  regarding the Marian apparation at La Salette, France.	Winner of the Marian Library Medal in 1953, John S. Kennedy's book, Light on the Mountain: The Story of La Salette, is one of the most historically definitive books available regarding the Marian apparition in the mountains of La Salette, France to two iron-willed, overworked, discarded, uneducated shepard children-Maximin Giraud, aged 11 and Melanie Mathieu, aged 14-on September 19th, 1846. Through his own research and readings, John S. Kennedy creates a very visual and accurate and convincing profile that slowly transports the reader to the very day the apparition occurred, as well as to the positive aftereffects that continued, even to this very day. The La Selette apparition was quite unique in that it was the first time the Blessed Mother appeared to children, long before Lourdes, Fatima, Beauraing and Banneux. And she appeared to two less-than-stellar, rude, poor practitioners of the Christian faith. But in her choosing of them, she chose all of us, for these kids, were, in essence, a mirror for what we all were and unfortunately continue to be, self-absorbed and wolfish people with a heavy disregard not simply for faith but for people completely. Faith in God evolved, somehow, into an unnecessary philosophy whereby it was actually viciously derided with a unified sneering jocularity by almost all the villages that were on the outskirts of the mountains. People drank and cussed, lived lecherously and only went to church to mock it, for as the Virgin Mother stated to Melanie and Maximin: \\"If my people will not obey, I shall be compelled to loose my son's arm. It is so heavy, so pressing that I can no longer restrain it. How long I have suffered for you! If my Son is not to cast you off, I am obliged to entreat Him without ceasing. But you take no least notice of that. No matter how well you pray in the future, no matter how well you act, you will never be able to make up to me what I have endured for your sake. I have appointed you six days for working. The seventh I have reserved for myself. And no one will give it to me. This it is which causes the weight of my Son's arm to be so crushing. The cart drivers cannot swear without bringing in my Son's name. These are the two things which make my Son's arm so burdensome...Only a few rather old women got to Mass in the summer. All the rest work every Sunday throughout the summer. And in winter, when they don't know what to do with themselves, they go to Mass only to poke fun at religion. During Lent they flock to the butcher shops, like dogs...\\" What is so stark about the La Sallette apparition is not only the choice of messengers but the frightening directives and secrets, the very latter so relevant, especially in today's times.	2005-07-09
US	51048130	R22K0FHA4XTU17	0385721277	900014736	The Spiral Staircase: My Climb Out of Darkness	Books	5	17	19	N	N	One woman's moving account of the struggles outside convent walls.	When is a religious vocation a gift from God versus when is it self created? In Karen Armstrong's The Spiral Staircase: My Climb out of the Darkness, she presents just such a scenario, giving a compelling and eloquent account of what led her to believe-to her parent's correct contrary belief-that she had a genuine vocation. As a sequel to her first memoir on convent life-Through the Narrow Gate-and as a revision to the original sequel-Beginning the World-Armstrong states in the preface: \\"...I was very shy and worried about the demands of adult social life...and...Most of my immediate family and friends were nonplussed-even slightly irritated-and I, of course, reveled in the sense of striking out and being just that little bit different.\\" Though Karen Armstrong did have a genuine intellectual curiosity, her reasons for entering convent life, at a remarkable youthful seventeen years of age, she did not at all possess the true hallmark signs of one who has a religious calling: an unexplainable yearning for things that are religious yet relational to humanism, the all enveloping feeling and or mystery of love-love being the paramount word here, as well as the genuine understanding of self-sacrifice and all that it is attached to it. Not once before entering the convent is the word love brought up. She did not have the basic emotional and religious foundation to survive a life of austerity, contemplation, prayer and stringency. If she did, this would have been an entirely different book. Being one of the last groups to enter the novitiate before the emergence of Vatican II, Karen Armstrong was taught under the 'old' school. And indeed, under the old system, some of the behavior and actions could have been considered bizarre, especially the matters of the sewing machine and the casting aside of genuine medical issues and the careless ascription of them to psychosomatic hysteria and self-glorification, among other things. The intense drilling and scrupulousness of sometimes incorrect theology with no room for questions and correct, caring discipline altered what should have been religious joy and love into trauma and unending sorrow. Karen Armstrong wanted to know and feel God, thus her entering into convent life. But she should have felt the loving mystery of God's vocation first. Convent life would have been the enhancement to the religious gift that was imbued within her. So, in essence, she inadvertently used religion in order to create something that was nonexistent in the first place: a religious vocation. What Karen Armstrong managed to achieve when she left the convent is nothing short of the miraculous: teacher, documentary filmmaker, writer, traveler, explorer, scholar. Some people have crosses within religious life, and they grow from it. And it was no different for Armstrong, who suffered from bouts of Anorexia nervosa, jaunts to various psychiatrists, habitual restlessness, firings and epilepsy. But through it all and by studying various faiths-Islam, Judaism, Buddhism-she came full circle to what her vocation really was: writing. But through the process of writing about various religions, her faith was, bit-by-bit, restored and renewed, and in essence, she discovered and felt who she was looking for all the while: herself and God. The Spiral Staircase, though sad in some respects, is also very uplifting, because it clearly illustrates that despite our flawed actions and rash decisions to go against the inherent truth of what is right for us, happiness, as in Armstrong's remarkable case, can still prevail; we just have to meet God halfway.	2005-06-24
US	51048130	RA74FQTAXJNXM	1559362766	261646791	Doubt: A Parable	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Gripping and thought-provoking: ripped from the headlines.	Sometimes a media blitzkrieg on a particular issue, in this case, the unraveling clergy sex scandal within the Catholic Church, can be so over dominant to the extreme that the genuine horror of its totality and those directly and indirectly affected, can regrettably seem like an unreality, a movie scene where human detachment is at its strongest. Where the media oftentimes fails to evoke a mood of empathy and personal involvement to what they are reporting--as they are covering facts--art, particulary dramtic art of the theatre, can bring into sharper focus the finer points of a tragedy or evil that those who are especially hardened and jaded by cynicism or total desensitization can not fully bring to the forefront, no matter how hard they try. And where journalists have sometimes failed in the telling of the humanness of the clergy sex scandal-and I specifically mean the victims-John Patrick Shanley has unundoubtedly succeeded, for Doubt, though very short, is quite powerful in its telling and the message it conveys: complete blind submissiveness and ignoring gut instincts--no matter how far fetched--is never a good thing, irrelevant if one is in a church environment or not. Doubt, in general, is a very healthy and normal thing to have, especially in this day and age. Unfortunately, it took the church sex scandal to starkly illustrate that point. In Doubt, the setting is a Catholic church in New York, specifically the Bronx, the time frame being the early to mid sixties. The characters are Father Brendan Flynn (the accused), Sister Aloysius Beauvier (the accuser), Sister James (the witness) and Mrs. Muller (the victim's mother). Sister James, an idealistic nun of the order of the Sisters of Charity, loves history and the teaching of it to students, especially receptive ones. Sister Aloysius has lived life, seen much and knows when to be sceptical. Though she is older and wiser, she is faith filled and dogmatically principled to even the most minute detail of Catholic thology:    Sister James: Oh, but everyone loves the Christmas pagent.    Sister Aloysius: I don't love it. Frankly it offends me. Last year the girl playing Our Lady was wearing lipstick. I was waiting in the wings for that little jade.    And then there is Father Brendan Flynn, rather happy-go-lucky with an initial attitude of dismissive cordiality, the one on 'easy street' who commands respect because of the Roman collar around his neck or so he has firmly convinced himself. However, when Sister James bears witness to an event and the aftereffects upon one of her students--Donald Muller--she brings the matter to Sister Aloysius, who despite concrete proof, knows full well what is going on and conducts an investigation that, bit-by-bit, bears disturbing fruit. Though Sister James is desperate for excuses, Sister Aloysius is unyielding in her doubt, especially the pragmatic explainations offered by Father Flynn. What he has to say is not good enough, and she goes beyond the rigid hierarchal structure for the greater good:    Sister Aloysius: I did not speak to the pastor. I spoke to one of the nuns.    Flynn: You should've spoken to the pastor.    Sister Aloysius: I spoke to a nun.    Flynn: That's not the proper route for you to have taken, Sister! The Church is very clear. You're supposed to go through the pastor.    Sister Aloysius: Why? Do you have an understanding, you and he? Father Flynn, you have a history.     Doubt is a definite parable, because there is a mythical and supernatural aura to the Catholic Church, an aura that can occasionally get lost within itself--as history has clearly proven--and thereby spread, unintentionally, errors to a wider audience. But as in the case of Sister Aloysius, it took her intuition and pitbull doggedness to cut through the convoluted self-righteousness in order that goodness could prevail. What Doubt will hopefully do is restore some degree of dialogue and trust, because for every bad apple there is indeed a large abundance of good holy priests who yearn to serve with humility, respect, compassion and mercy.	2005-06-11
US	51048130	R30IYX4QMVOSDA	1400033837	785795777	A Thousand Acres: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Shakespearean tragedy played out on a bucolic landscape.	One would normally not equate a Shakespearean drama with rural desolate vastness and an Iowan farm family, but it is an engaging and intelligent literary effort that author Jane Smiley, somehow, effortlessly manages to pull off--somehow. Farming, one of the most noble professions out there, is indicative of being consistent backbreaking labor which is not only physically, emotionally and spiritually gratifying, but it is one of many professions whereby the work is relational to the earth, the weather and the God given ability of the individual to till the land and make something of value sprout from it. Farming, similar to fishing in various respects, is correlative to the life giving sustenance that make all other aspects of living strong, cohesive, functioning and tolerable, for without food and the various nutrients contained therein, where would we, humanity, be? We would not be looking too good. But what if there were an irreparable crack-as in a water pipe-in the very family that farms the land? The pipe can always be replaced, but can the same be said for the family? And if not, what happens to the land that sprouts survival which transcends the boundaries of the numerous acreages? And such is the scenario presented by Jane Smiley. Before people, farmers or not, can work in conjunction with their farmlands or even the ocean, they must work in an alliance with each other. It must be a strong unification where one goal is the top priority of all participants. But in A Thousand Acres and the characters who occupy it: Ginny, Rose, Caroline, Ty, Pete and Daddy, among others outside the core grouping, there is a radical split. Each cause for the individual collapse is a unique and tragic one where the invisiable yet palpable elastic band that formerly held everyone in place, bit-by-bit, gradually tears, slinging family members in an assortment of directions that brings new meaning to the word dysfunctional, for the causes: sexual abuse, alcoholicism, adultery, lossof self identity and worth (Ginny especially), fatalistic submission, etc. is quite abundant. But the communicative and desirous confrontation that would hopefully bring about a sense of healing and a starting over backfires terribly, as no one is willing to delve into themselves or meet each other halfway. They are open enough to do that for their acreages and their crops--but not themselves. And that not only makes them sad but acutely pathetic. Their unyielding defiance to 'till' their own souls towards revenge rather than for self-betterment brings about a larger destruction that affects the reader not just for the characters themselves but for the wider unmentioned audience, the ones who are dependent upon their agricultural prowess and know-how, thus making their story, somehow, a double tragedy. King Lear, farming, secreted evils and so much more! Many kudos to Jane Smiley for a remarkable work of fiction.	2005-06-10
US	51048130	R11LV7TBJQ5ETI	0819906573	901458655	Matt Talbot and His Times	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The poignant story of one man's holy battle against drink.	Mary Purcell's touching and well written biography of Venerable Matt Talbot, the Dublin blue-collar workman, whose slavery to drink and unquenchable and relentless addiction robbed a large part of his childhood and early adulthood, is a striking story of one man's battle against his demons--the plaguing obsession for alcoholic consumption. While at his first job at a bottling store, he learned to \\"put away\\" liquor to such an excess that by the age of thirteen, he was considered a chronic alcoholic, with no hope whatsoever for any type of recovery. At the age of twenty-eight, he had a profound conversion experience that forever altered his life, whereby God, Christ Jesus, the Holy Spirit and Mary, the Virgin Mother, became the epicenter of his whole life. But up till that intense moment, drink and how to go about getting it-even if it was by criminal means-was the all engrossing fixation that took over his soul. Not even his family, friends, work, self-respect nor his own health could minutely penetrate into his gloomy obstinacy and cruel recklessness. He was indifferent and unyielding about changing any facet of himself for the better, not caring one iota how his behavior and actions wounded those around him, for his disease was a combination of genetics and emotional distress. One was compounded with the other, locked together in a physical and mental war to destroy one who did not know where or how to turn in order to combat the spiritual and psychological decimation that was occurring from within.     Matt Talbot always had a distant yet respectful relationship with religion, but he had a greater bond with drink and anyone and anything associated with it. Oftentimes, when finishing up work at the docks or the yards, Matt and his buddies would head to the bars to get thoroughly tanked. To do so, he would often borrow money and offer empty promises to repay the debt. Or worse, he would beat up a drifter, as he did on one particular occasion, stealing his fiddle andpawning it for cash to be used for drink. He also sold his own shoes in the dead of winter-again-for drink alone. But more often than not, her got temporary \\"loans\\" from those around him, until that was no longer acceptable. And on one particular evening, when waiting outside a bar for his friends to arrive, his mates blatantly shunned him so completely that burning shame brought him down to the pits where nothing could revive him or so he thought, until he turned to \\"Him who does not fail.\\"--page 60. After that experience and others like them, he knew humility and understood sin in its acute theological essence without having the book knowledge as a priest or theologian might. He had the life experience of it, and that goes way beyond any type of book learning. In 1882, at a church in Clonliffe, he took the abstinence pledge after his confession, and though he struggled bitterly, falling little by little, his evenings at various bars were replaced by evenings in quite reflections at various churches doing the rosary or trying to understand and assimilate scriptural truths into his recovery, for though he was practically illiterate, his conversion and openness to God's grace gave him the committed perseverance required to be the type of man that nobody thought possible.    When Matt Talbot took the pledge of sobriety in 1882, he renewed it three months later, then eight months, until he took it for life, remaining clean for the balance of his forty-one years of life. But it was what he did with that gift of life which God gave him that was so arresting. Always one of the guys, he led the life of the conconsummate laborer, the best of the best; he was often cited by his foreman to take the lead for the others to emulate. In his private life, however, he worked diligently and with a pure heart to bond ever deeper to God, through His Son and the Blessed Virgin. He practiced deep acts of mortifications: fasting, praying, serving others, trying to help alcoholics who were in his same shoes, long before Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) ever emerged. He exercised his conversion by secretly wearing chains around his body, otherwise known as Slavery to Mary. And though he was never rich or truly healthy, whatever money he had, he always denied himself and gave to the less fortunate, for his miracle was his liberation from the alcohol that he wrongly believed was on par with oxygen itself for his mere survival. This was his way to give back to a Father who only wanted the best for his child. What the Matt Talbot story illustrates is that no sin-no matter how demeaning or gross or horrific or extremely overwhelming-is overpowering enough that Christ Jesus, God, can't handle it, one needs only to meet Them half way in the struggle. And the gift will most certainly be made evident.    Mary Purcell's top-notch biography of Matt Talbot is without a doubt the definitive book on this little known man's holy life. Not only are his stuggles exhaustively explored with intelligent depth but so too are his times, his immediate environment and why alcoholism was so prevalent in nineteenth century Ireland. Poverty, lack of work and various other negative social issues were the causes and effects as to why so many \\"Matt Talbots\\" seemed to sprout up with a drink offering in one hand and a \\"screw this\\" mentality in the other. It is a book that reads not simply as a biography, but it reads as a fascinating chronicle of a country with its yo-yo-like ups and downs, economically, socially and politically. But with all that aside, it had-as it still does-its Catholic faith firmly held in tact, lifting and encouraging the downtrodden and those less so to look upward when it was, and sometimes is, easier to look down. Matt Talbot's story is a shining example, a future Catholic Saint whose witness has much to teach us.	2005-04-25
US	51048130	RBDOMJWEOALOG	0819811629	520907971	Blessed Pier Giorgio Frassati: An Ordinary Christian	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An ordinary Christian. An exceptional soul. A true example.	Blessed Pier Giorgio Frassati's life-though brief-was truely a model example of the heroic, an unyielding quest to fully and earnestly live out the Gospel. At times, it's an indefinable journey that is filled to the brim with unimaginable heartbreaks and delights of unprecedented scope, a trek that is sometimes lived out both publicly and privately. In the case of Pier Giorgio Frassati-in his cultured and affluent upbringing-he was the private Catholic Robin Hood, living a life divided of what his family and the moneyed society he was born into expeced of him versus what his heart yearned to bring to fruition: helping the less fortunate and living out his vocation of faith with zeal, simplicity and adventure. He could have lived a cushioned life as a freewheeling member of the intellectual Italian aristocracy, his agnostic father, Alfredo, being the founder of the noted newspaper, La Stampa, as well as being a politician and diplomat, while his mother, Adelaide, was a sculptress of acknowledged repute. Yet, there was an aspect of heavyheartedness and mistrust regarding the life he was born into, often shunning society balls and all the baggage associated with it. He did not yearn to be an executive paper pusher within La Stampa, as his father had set up for him. Rather, he wanted to be a mining engineer in order to work with the poor and needy miners, to cater to their spiritual and economic needs--foregoing even the priesthood, becasue he believed he could give more and better as a member of the laity, offer more hands-on, practical service where he saw fit, which was almost everywhere. Sadly, the unmistakable vocation to the religious life was never fostered nor promoted by his parents, as noted on page 30: \\"Once, when a nun asked Adelaide what she thought of the idea of Pier Giorgio becoming a priest, she answered abruptly, 'I would rather he graduate from the university and die.'\\" As that was so, Pier Giorgio, thrust himself behind Catholic Action, adhering strictly to their motto of action, prayer and sacrifice. He also became a political Catholic neophyte, getting into brawls to protect the faith, while denouncing Mussolini's facism. All the while, he would make private visits to the poor, trudging with an abundance of care packages into the most dilapidated and disease infested areas conceivable, only to rise very early in the morning for devotions, to pray with Mary for guidance and sing the litany of the Blessed Virgin Mary or do the rosary, which was the \\"testament in my pocket.\\"--page 53. Tersely yet eloquently written, An Ordinary Christian is a beautifully crafted biography of a most remarkable, humorous and winsome young man, a keen mountaineer who made his Catholic faith his priority; his compassion, openness, feisty doggedness, enthusiasm, grinding patience and loving acceptance of God's will for him, definitely makes him a Catholic Blessed and hopefully a soon-to-be Catholic Saint that all humainity-young and old-can look up to, a man who scaled beyond the mountain crests up to the heavenly realm.	2005-04-23
US	51048130	R3LJZY44P1WK2W	0819844934	603769042	Love Letters to My Husband	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Holy valor in everyday life: Letters of love and marriage.	The love letters of St. Gianna Beretta Molla and her husband, Pietro, are very engaging in their offering of mini geographic profiles of their environment--Ponte Nuovo and Courmayeur--as well the workings of a genuinely healthy and sincere Catholic-Christian oriented marriage. Just a brief insight on the type of woman and wife that Gianna hungered to be is cited by her own example in the Book of Porverbs 31:10-31--\\"I often meditate on the text [assoicated with] St. Anne: 'A strong woman, who will find her? The heart of a husband can trust in her. She will do only good things for him and never bring evil upon him throughout all of his life.' Pietro, I want to be that strong woman for you...\\" page 30. It is a simple yet stark example of what should be striven towards, a pinnacle for husbands and wives and those soon to be married; at the top of that pyramid for the Mollas was not materialism, self-aggrandizement or an arrogant brandishing of success--family, career or otherwise. Rather, at the peak was God, Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. By their own deep-rooted faith of living out joys, sorrows, fears and hopes, they worked very hard towards creating and realizing a family trinity, not always an easy thing to achieve and maintain but certainly something to labor towards. What Saint Gianna offered her husband was always quickly reciprocated, especially illustrated in a letter sent while he was in the United States on a business trip: \\"Before I go to sleep I will tell Jesus, our Heavenly Mother, and our guardian angels: 'Bless Gianna, and help me to always know how to make her happy. Bless the little one we are expecting with so much love and eagerness. Bless and protect Pierluigi and Mariolina (the children), protect them from every misfortune and sickness...\\" page 94. The Mollas had their crosses to carry, too: loneliness, self-doubt, etcetera, but Christ Jesus was the staple for all their actions, up to the pro-life martyrdom of Saint Gianna herself. What makes these intimate and beautiful letters such a pleasure to read is not any degree of Catholic-Christian mysticism, as say in the cases of the other saints. But it is in the truthfulness of their humanity, especially similar to war love letters. These short letters, lucidly written, boldly bring out to what is so common in the day-to-day human experience: paying bills, caring for the sick, family reunions, child delevopment, through the Grace of God trying to be the best man or woman that one can be. The most profound truth that these letters convey, irrelevant of one's economic position in life, is that the Holy Trinity lovingly stoops down to us and that surely, in the ordinary, the phenomenal lies.	2005-04-22
US	51048130	R3C1KHJEXSWKI4	0819830992	949475227	Saint Gianna Beretta Molta A Woman's Life 1922-1962	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Gianna Beretta Molla: Wife, Mother, Doctor, Catholic Saint.	All across global society, there are many controversial issues that predominate the social and political spectrum, none more polemical than the matter of abortion. Those who are Pro-Life versus those who are Pro-Choice lock heads to the point where divisiveness is a constant. Herein is where the uniqueness of Dr. Molla lies. Blessed Gianna, now Saint Gianna Beretta Molla, is a unique yet admirable figure among the vast array of Catholic Saints, having been canonized in 2004 by Pope John Paul II. She was a medical doctor who specialized in pediatrics, but she saw her vocation as a doctor as the Divine gift that it was: \\"In one way or another, everyone in the world works in the service of humanity. The physician works directly with the human person. The object of our science and work is the human person who is before us, who tells us about him or herself, who asks for help, and who expects from us the fullness of his or her existence. Physicians have opportunities that a priest does not have, for our mission does not end when medicine is no longer of help. There still remains the soul that must be brought to God. Jesus says, 'Whoever visits the sick is helping me.' This is a priestly mission! Just as the priest can touch Jesus, so we doctors touch Jesus in the bodies of our patients: in the poor, the young, the old, children.... May Jesus reveal himself through us; may he find many physicians who willingly offer themselves to him.\\"--page 46. Through her work with Catholic Action, as well as her rich, rewarding faith, Dr. Molla was a woman endowed with much, but there was something else that she had a yearning for--a family. Originally dissuaded from becoming a religious missionary, as her brothers and sister had become-for her calling laid elsewhere-she needed clarity in order to see her vocation clearly in respects to love. Hence, while at Lourdes, she prayed to the Blessed Virgin for insight, and it came when her relationship with Pietro Molla (later her husband) deepened into a true Catholic-Christian marriage. And with the manifestation of that love, came a succession of children. In her time as a doctor, Dr. Molla was frequently asked to perform abortions, and her response would be a consistently resounding, \\"It is a sin against God. Life is sacred.\\"--page 58. It was a religious and professional truth bravely lived out as a member of the Association of Catholic Physicians and then in the International Medical Association of Our Lady of Lourds. As her work schedule grew so too did her family, and upon her fourth pregnancy-her third one being difficult-she promised that her family work would come first, that she would leave her medical career behind, for however long necessary. But it was her fourth pregnancy whereby she would ununexpectedly become a martyr. Having developed a fibroma on the lateral right wall of her uterus and later septic peritonitis, she had one of three choices: an abortion, a complete hysterectomy or save the baby's life. The first two choices would have assured her her life. The abortion choice would also have guaranteed future pregnancies. However, Gianna Molla, as a doctor, chose the very last option, her will uncompromising to save her baby, knowing full well, however, that it would ultimately cost her her life. But as true as that was and as genuine as her painful suffering was, her faith was unyielding: \\"Oh, if Jesus were not here to console us at times like this....!\\"--page 110. Gianna Beretta Molla died quietly in her home on April 28, 1962, slowly living out her Passion, responding fully to her vocation with quiet, saintly courage.	2005-04-14
US	51048130	R2IJ677NOEQ1QR	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Comedy and Tragedy: The Story of an English Butler.	To be a positive contributor to society and the important issues that flow within it, is something, for the most part, that people yearn to be. They want to offer the best of themselves-their talents, their expertise, their prowess (in whatever field)-and in a small or big way, be acknowledged for it. It is a stark truth in all professions, to the highly important to the extremely entry-level. Besides monetary necessity for the reasons why we work, acknowledgement ranks right up there, if not number one on the list. And it is true for the protagonist, Stevens, in Kazuo Ishiguro's elegantly yet restrained or repressed English novel, The Remains of the Day.  <br /> <br />Set in England in the 1950s while on a contemplative road trip, the story revolves around Stevens, the ultimate prim and proper, sometimes unyielding \\"perfect\\" English butler who prides himself on his sterling service on behalf of his English lord, Lord Darlington of Darlington Hall. While on his jaunt throughout the rolling green English countryside, Stevens ruminates through a series of chapter-by-chapter flashbacks, the genuine \\"greatness\\" of the man whom he served, a refined English lord of olden times but also a bumbling political neophyte of the worst sort who goes way over his head regarding Hitler and the Nazi way of \\"doing things\\". Constantly ingnoring the nagging truth that is in his heart and mind, he delves deeper within himself and presents a formal if not icy, robotic mask of civility, propriety and polite reservedness. While the outer image that he presents is one of a fine old fellow, the inner turmoil and realization of the dark dynamic of Lord Darlington-via the various dialogues with Miss Kenton (the head house mistress)-gradually fleshes itself out to where it is no longer a rumor or speculation but a horrifying truth. And how does Stevens fit into that wider picture of Lord Darlington's inhuman actions--guilt by association or something darker and worse? Did he himself evolve intoa temporary drone or puppet and turn a blind eye upon fanatical anti-semitism? <br /> <br />The Remains of the Day is a very quite book with beautiful, elegant prose; it is very much an English novel that eloquently addresses many contemporay issues besides religious discrimination. However, it is percisely its quietude that makes the blarring horror of Lord Darlington's anti-semitism so disturbing and in-your-face. And Stevens, whose blind allegiance is firmly fixed, no matter what, one-ups Lord Darlington-if that is possible-and boldly poses the question to the reader: Were I to witness a manifestitation of evil, and I knew it to be so, would I turn a blind eye or would I try to do something about it? The Remains of the Day is a compelling and beautifully crafted novel and appropriately imbued with dry English humor, lifting it in places so the book does not drip down like a wet, oppressive cloth of banal English preachments of right and wrong.	2005-04-13
US	51048130	R1XJUNTET44CHM	0385425139	858664803	The Famished Road	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Ponderous in its creation, yet it satisfies on all fronts!	War, strife, misery, corruption, poverty, emotional and physical brutality, hypocracy, intimidation. It is a short list, but they are indeed the fundamentally potent ingredients that could make anyone who is simmering in the total unhappiness of it all truly yearn unceasingly for an existence in another realm, where the chains of seemingly unending suffering are simply melted away into nonexistence. In poverty laced and psychologically decimated \\"modern\\" Nigeria, as written by Ben Okri, the Nigerian society as a whole or a good chunk of it, would be one camp where death would be a liberating gift from the undesired toilings of harsh day-to-day realities. With mellifluous simplicity, Ben Okri creates duel worlds: one heavenly, one earthly. And in the duality, there is a responsive spirit-child named Azaro who can cross the bridge of life into death and death into life, as one who consistently has near death experiences. But each requires a sacrifice, for when Azaro traverses into the dimension of spirit, he must leave behind his mother and father who love him, though much of his earthly actions bring about stress and frustration, as well as joy and pleasure--more of the former than the latter, however. But if he stays in the land of the living, he must endure the hardships that are naturally affixed to it. He gets himself stuck, as if in a Catch-22, hankering for both the spiritual and earthly worlds. Through the vast array of characters: Mom, Dad, Madam Koto, the Photographer, various political yes-men, the boxer Green Leapard, the blind man, Ade, et cetera, the raw yet richly cultured Afrocentric aura looms lushly outward in an almost literary 3-D manner. Village life, culture and mythical behavior, as well as the \\"game\\" or \\"tragedy\\" (you choose) of African politics via the technique of magical realism is very much fleshed out. The simplicity of the writing style in no way, shape or form mollifies the palpable depth of the characters who must live and survive in anall-too-consuming oppressive environment that would seem quite alien to most of us---in an upper/middle class creme de la creme point of view. The Famished Road is dense, plodding and absolutely wild in its limitlessness of human imagination, a genuine wordy and intellectual tour de force if ever there was one and certainly worthy of its Booker Prize!	2005-03-14
US	51048130	R3HKJ12EG3G0DU	1852427507	984421874	The Piano Teacher (Serpent's Tail Classics)	Books	1	37	65	N	N	Abysmally depressing and bleak, a work offering emptyness.	Upon Elfriede Jelinek's selection for the Nobel Prize for Literature, with the novel-The Piano Teacher-being specifically cited, the Italian newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano, courageously criticized the choice. And I, as a reader, couldn't have agreed more. In its explaination, it stated: \\"...Three hundred pages of brutal recklessness, perverse psychologies and destructive feminine genealogy, intended only to denounce the irremediable inheritance of evil, sin, violence in every form of love.\\" It also read that her works are: \\"Cold and sad, marked by a lack of communication and abuse, the union of bodies is never open to delicacy or dignity of soul of purpose. [The Piano Teacher's] devastating lasciviousness in the name of political and social denunciation [is] translatable in absolute nihilism.\\"  <br /> <br />On reading the The Piano Teacher, what, to me, was impressively conveyed was the mental blurring of day-to-day outer visual realities with the subterfuge of the tormented inner self: the private addiction to pornography, sadomasichism, isolationism and the stark refusal to confront the demon within, as was clearly illustrated with the warped character, Erika Kohut. However, Walter Klemmer's character, his perception of love and what it entails, is equally perveted to the extent that you wanted to dismiss them both. And if both characters-among the others-are supposed to be representative of a vast sense of realistic humanism, why should we want to leave them both behind, despite the fact that they are both so boldly despicable? But that is what Jelinek almost wants to have happen-the manifestation of abandonment, with the emergence of power dominion in tact. Jelinek's characters are not humans. They are robots. Power, not redemptive love, compassion or understanding, is the core theme. The characters are utterly unconvincing, nothing but cliche, cardboard cutouts who revolve around their own obsessed stupidity for a minute degree of unrelenting gender powerplay,where the woman's emotional mentality becomes a man's and vice versa. No normal egressions are at all offered, neither physically nor emotionally. And that somehow stunts the characters and their situations to the point of the whole novel being rather laughable than 'serious' literature. <br /> <br />As a clear illustration of the whole essence of this work, I'd like to cite an excerpt on page 226 with Erika imploring: \\"Now she pleads for rape, which she pictures more as a steady announcement of rape, nothing could save me from it...tell me in advance that I'll be beside myself with bliss when you treat me brutally but thoroughly...He (Klemmer) should blissfully keep slapping her, hard and steadily. Thank-you very much in advance!\\" And it gets much, much worse. If that is an aspect of feminism, I feel really sorry for feminists or anyone who adopts the ideal that sex is a form of power control to be used and manipulated for gain and self-glorification--irrelevant of genders. And to the Nobel Academy, I think their choice speaks for itself.	2005-01-31
US	51048130	RMNIIUM7KBI7H	0944203043	344620355	Divine Mercy In My Soul-Diary of Sister M. Faustina Kowalska	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A wonderful spiritual diary in which to learn and grow from.	The Divine Mercy in My Soul by Saint Maria Faustina Kowalska or the \\"Apostle of the Divine Mercy,\\" is very much a passionate and eye-opening diary, comprising of six notebooks, that are filled with divine insights on or from God, His will, His joys, sorrows, and in essence, what it is to be a human being. In an age of intense religious doubt and sarcasm, especially by young people, Saint Faustina's diary is vast yet intensely focused. Her loving written homages, irrelevant if she was suffering various crosses or experiencing ecstasies, are deeply sincere and very moving: \\"O God of fathomless mercy, who allow me to give relief and help to the dying by my unworthy prayer, be blessed as many thousand times as there are stars in the sky and drops of water in the ocean! Let Your mercy resound throughout the orb of the earth, and let it rise to the foot of Your throne, giving priase to the greatest of Your attributes; that is, Your incomprehensible mercy...(P. 327. Notebook II)\\". The intimate written communions as expressed in the diary not only shed light but also to some extent open the floodgates as to how anyone who is sincere in heart and mind can go about experiencing an intimate communion with God. But then a question arises. Are people at least willing to meet God half way? And the answer, for the most part is, not usually, for that involves delving into the mysterious, and that can sometimes act as the nightstick that can keep people unnecessarily fearful and hesitant. Saint Faustina not only met God half way, she leapt into the totality of Him and His greatness, and that speaks volumes that no words can adequately convey. On the whole of it, the diary is very comforting, inspiring and insightful. It has and will continue to do so since its publication, inflame the spark in readers that they did not even know was present. Venerable Matt Talbot, who one day may be declared the patron saint of alcoholics and addicts once wrote, It is constancy God wants. Saint Faustina, I believe upon reading the diary, more than fulfilled that obligation.	2004-09-01
US	51048130	R1XB98HH3MG6OV	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A dark, smothering, disturbing, downward spiral into hell.	Written in clear, simple, matter-of-fact prose, Less Than Zero, is a chillingly disturbing and hair-raising novel that hones in specifically on L.A.'s edgy, filthy and unrepentant subculture, where booze, drugs, hustling, casual, empty sex, shallow values as well as violence-both physically and visually-are the norm. It is a subculture of pills, plastic surgery, 'laboratory' or 'Frankenstein' created perfection, spiritual vacuousness, fatalistic/lobotomized acceptance or indifference of anything and everything are neatly meshed together with a wad of cash acting as a decorative bow. The novel revolves around Clay, a young man on summer break from college in New Hampshire. Visiting his financially well-to-do family, he decides to 'reconnect' with some of his school friends and girlfriend, Blair-the very latter a brainwashed drone to the excessive frivolities that only L.A. can offer. After getting into the inner sanctum of his friend's lives, Clay gets acclimatized (with the aid of drugs, among other things) to their jaded perceptions and their uppish, arrogant world view of, &quot;This is how it is, man. What planet are you from?&quot; attitude. As time progresses, Clay unwittingly begins to mirror the very people-with all their dangeriously luxuriant excesses-whom he fears and despises. What is even worse is that his family and home life is no refuge either from the dizzying despair that is slowly enveloping him, for his home life is as equally terrible as what he's trying to flee from; his only form of escapism is marijuana, cocaine, sex, partying and booze, all of which temporarily act as a kind of fake portal to the untouched nether reaches (so he believes) of his mind or his soul. But bit by bit, that too slowly gets chipped away at, and what is beyond that is too terrifying to imagine. Clay's only saving grace is a quiet moment of introspection at Topanga Canyon, where, &quot;...I could hear the wind moving through the canyons...A coyote howled...I had been home a long time.&quot; (P. 207). Silence was his saving grace, for it forever imprinted upon his mind all that he experienced; it was the catalyst that set him free: &quot;There was a song I heard when I was in Los Angeles by a local group. The song was called &quot;Los Angeles&quot; and the words and images were so harsh and bitter that the song would reverberate in my mind for days. The images, I later found out, were personal and no one I knew shared them. The images I had were of people being driven mad by living in the city. Images of parents who were so hungry and unfulfilled that they ate their own children. Images of people, teenagers my own age, looking up from the asphalt and being blinded by the sun. These images stayed with me even after I left the city. Images so violent and malicious that they seemed to be my only point of reference for a long time afterwards...&quot; (P.208). They say that the globe has many, many war zones. Los Angeles would definitely be included.	2004-07-20
US	51048130	R1BRDHBTYQQPRA	0385030096	232454625	Introduction to the Devout Life (Image Classics)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Illuminating information for the obtainment of inner peace.	Saint Francis de Sales-patron saint of authors and writers and eminent Doctor of the Catholic Church-is quite deserving of his posthumous honors and titles, for with Introduction to the Devout Life (among his numerous other books and pamphlets), he gives to not only Catholics around the world but humanity in general, a religious, imformative yet readable work of theology that will aid in answering some of the fundamental questions of human existence. But more importantly, in the Introduction to the Devout Life, \\"St. Francis de Sales gives one of the clearest statements in religious literature of the theory and practice of the purgative way, the illuminative way, and the unitive way, the three levels of thought and conduct that are required for a completely moral and religious life...\\" Page 14. That is the gist of this work; for those individuals (which would indeed, unfortunately, be a large numer) who are not destined for a religious vocation or a life of monastic contemplation, the lessons contained within the Introduction to the Devout Life (if at least minutely adhered to) can become a moral and religious compass for individuals who are frightfully lost as a result of the freewheeling sexualization of society, unrepentant, insolent amour propre, the rise of unceasing materialism and other debasing wounds that can cause spiritual deadness and thus can become none too quick to heal. Written in a similar style to that of the Dialogue of Saint Catherine of Siena, the book, however, is in the format of St. Francis writing down answers to a female pupil named Philothea and not a one-on-one conversation as in the Dialogue, but Introduction to the Devout Life is similar in idea. One of the many pleasant aspects of this work is that it does not sermonize extreme ways for acquiring grace, but for people who have lived on the opposite side of the moral spectrum far longer than they care to acknowledge, bits of the book may seem very extreme. However, it is not meant to beinterpreted that way, merely as a catalyst to a newer and brighter beginning. If there ever was a much required and sincere \\"how-to\\" guide to bring people back to God while also repairing the interior damage of the self as a result of environment, people and inborn human flaws, Introduction to the Devout Life would be and is, very high on the list, for as he gloriously writes on page 291: \\"Such are the joys that lure my sight,/All pains grow sweet, all labors light. Live, Jesus! to whom, with the Father and the Holy Spirit, be all honor and glory, now and throughout the endless ages of eternity. Amen.\\"	2003-09-18
US	51048130	R3879QJDX573EY	0064400204	235213966	Sounder	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An exceptionally moving story for both children and adults.	Loving devotion, decency and courage can come from an assortment of places-our mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters and friends-but one would not immediately suspect that those qualities would or could come from a scruffy, beat-up old coon dog named Sounder. It just goes to show that pluck and deep affection can soar up and out where we least expect it. In the heart of the old South there is a deep-rooted and pervasive, detrimental thinking that is the general make-up of the majority's attitude. It is a stark divide or code of ethics that one must live by in order to survive. Quite simply and horribly: white is good, black is bad. In the vortex of this dark thinking is a hard working, nameless black family (any black family), innocent people minding their own business and simply trying to survive. There are three things that help them rise above their abysmal poverty: 1) each other 2) stories imbued with biblical truths and 3) Sounder. However, as time elapses and weather conditions grow more harsh, the severity of starvation grips the family, eventually causing the father to commit a crime of despair: stealing food (sound Dickens-like?). Upon getting 'found' out, the misery only doubles when the father is led away (for many years) in chains like a psychopathic cut-throat killer and Sounder (like Old Yeller) is wounded in trying to help his master. But it is in the moment of arrest and thereafter that Sounder evolves from a simple hunting dog to a kind of guardian angel, drifting in and out of the picture, while the eldest son developes from a fatherless boy-searching desperately for him-into a determined young man eager to better himself and his situation. As the bleakness of prejudicial inhumanity slowly abates and the remaining family members start their lives anew, Sounder and the father emgerge back into the picture-physically infirm and mentally wounded by the cruelties of life, but those wounds heal, when, like Christ and Mary, they ascend to the realm of peace, leaving behind a stark truth for the boy and those left behind: \\"The Lord is my shepard; I shall not want, He maketh me lie down in green pastures.\\" Sounder is a wonderful book for both children and adults and most deserving of its 1970 Newbery Medal.	2003-06-19
US	51048130	R33W0XKMAA9XJB	055321392X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A deeply affecting story of obsession and life choices.	Of Human Bondage is a literary beacon of light for the wayward drifter who is in the grip of an emotional force that is larger than him or herself. It is a piece of literature that can resonate quite loudly for people who are in a transitional phase in their lives, whether it be coming out of a hardship or entering into one (you decide), searching for the ideal career, the perfect mate or all of the above. Of Human Bondage addresses, at its core, the fixations and or foibles that can or can't lead to one's life choices. Maugham's classic isn't really about introspection and self-analysis-although that is a minute slice of the pie-rather the book explores (in conjunction with fixations and foibles) the environment, the people who fill it and how it and they influence thoughts and actions. In the case of Philip Carey, his entire emotional affliction derives from the biggest failing, that he, in much irony, totally and lustfully embraces: Mildred Rodgers, a dowdy, dispassionate waitress who could give a flying flip over her possessive suitor's welfare and attention (unless she wants something). Human beings are quite successful at establishing their own burdens and barriers, and Philip Carey is the absolute representation of that fact. In the beginning, he emerges as a confined and oppressed, yet gifted, young lad who wants to be the holder of his own choices, but he is not. The one who reigns over him is his rather impersonal uncle, the Vicar of Blackstable. Their stringent life as well as the mocking depravity that he (Philip) receives over his clubfoot at school, are the undeniable catalysts that get the story off the ground. He gallaivants from one adventure and possible career to another, like a boat drifting on waves: up, down, up, down. But each new adventure is more of a representation of escape and avoidance rather than of a progressive learning experience. Philip is a person with a multitude of demons, and instead of hitting the bottle for relief, he flees his surroundings, one fresh slate upon another. Instead of trying to endure the common hardships that are responsible for emotional strength and character development, Philip, sadly, flees from them, thus stunting his emotional growth, making him especially vulnerable when he must face pain (Mildred, loneliness, poverty...) head-on, unable to turn back and escape. Each experience-of which Mildred plays a huge part-drains him more and more, pushing him into a darkened abyss where the glimmer of hope seems so terribly unattainable. On page 413, a jaded Philip has a speck of realization dawn upon him: \\"But on the whole the impression was neither of tragedy nor of comedy. There was no describing it. It was manifold and various; there were tears and laughter, happiness and woe; it was tedious and interesting and indifferent; it was as you saw it: it was tumultuous and passionate; it was grave; it was sad and comic; it was trivial; it was simple and complex; joy was there and despair; the love of mothers for their children, and of men for women; lust trailed itself through the rooms with leaden feet, punishing the guilty and the innocent, helpless wives and wretched children; drink seized men and women and cost its inevitable price; death sighed in these rooms; and the beginning of life, filling some poor girl with terror and shame, was diagnosed there. There was neither good nor bad there. There was just facts. It was life.\\" There was a saving grace, a shield of armor that Philip was endowed with as a result of his various 'escapes.' And that is that his perception became extremely honed. He became attuned to both his positive and negative experiences via varying roles as youthful academic, office worker, artist, medical student, store clerk, poverty-stricken wreck, and latterly, as a burgeoning doctor. He learned to come to grips with his genuine fears and dreams versus his ridiculous ones-the paramount ones being boredom and a globe-trotting doctor. You get what you give! In all of those roles-minus office worker, youthful academic and artist-Mildred Rodgers played an integral part in shaping who Philip was and what he chose to pursue as well as who he chose to offer his affections to. Foregoing the glamour of international travel-Cordova, Toledo, Leon-I can see Philip behind the guardrail with Sally, facing the setting sun and the vast ocean in Dorsetshire, whispering silently, \\"Thank-you, Mildred Rodgers! Thank-you!\\"	2003-03-26
US	51048130	R4IZ0EDJEK4CK	0679751130	542159401	Passionate Minds: Women Rewriting the World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Literary criticism that's scholarly, crisp and relishable.	Exhaustively researched and knowledgeably sifted, Passionate Minds: Women Rewriting the World is an incisively engaging work that exhilarates the mind while also extending beyound the mere bland categorization of 'biography' and 'women's studies,' for it stretches quite easily into other academic dimensions: sociology, psychology, history and economics; it is a work that is more than what it is promoted to be. Pierpont's succinct yet smooth academic prose is honed and streamlined; excess language and descriptive clutter is cast aside, and only the germane pith, the be-all and end-all, is critically dissected. Writing is a soul-searching craft-that more often than not-offers an intellectual and spiritual cartharsis. It is a powerful talent (one of many) by which many positive changes can be enacted, for when asked why they do what they do, writers, broadly speaking, would never hesitate to say, &quot;The pen is mightier than the sword.&quot; The twelve writers, authors in Passionate Minds would have used the above-in varying degrees-as a life philosophy. From Hannah Arendt and Ayn Rand to Olive Schreiner and Marina Tsvetaeva, the lives profiled were not of simple women who 'slothfully' mused over global issues and then did nothing about them. The concerns, though mostly  relegated to a specific gender, nonetheless, addressed all of humanity. Economic equality and intellectual stimulation, rather than artistic expression, would be at the top of the pyramid in this case. The broader essence of the book is how a person or persons broaches a subject that is of pressing concern to him or herself. What tools could and can be used to rectify specific areas that have long ago been ignored or deemed too weighty in intensity to even approach? In Ayn Rand's case, could it be done through collectivism or individualism? For Hannah Arendt and Mary McCarthy especially, collectivism would tower, the two probably being the modernized propellant of the literati activist, now being emulated. But the one thing that linked all these women was the printed word, printed utterances that came in the form of essays, novels, plays, journalism, poetry. These were the weapons of transformation (see Mae West, Doris Lessing, Anais Nin), racial exploration (see Zora Neale Hurston, Margaret Mitchell) and onward. What is remarkable about these lives is that they either rose from abject poverty and anguish or dived headlong into it in order to write, to do something that had a greater and profound good that was not yet visible to the masses: &quot;I write for thee/I suffer privately/ And glory comes when I am gone...&quot;  These writers had battle scars from sacrifice. And the improvement is so little.	2003-02-21
US	51048130	R35XJJ21UW7WYE	0553212478	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A masterpiece of savage hopelessness and immaculate prose.	If a reader was to compare the macabre gothic darkness in the novels of Frankenstein, Dracula and The Phantom of the Opera, one would believe that the element of horror and depravity in each book would be on an equal standing. But the reader would be incorrect, for in respects to horror, somberness, trauma, deprivation of love, empathy and respect, Frankenstein towers above the others. It has a hybrid of excessive melancholy despair and disturbing horror. It is a work of literature where the gothic element is pushed to the zenith. Where Dracula is a novel of lust and physical intimacy, at its core, it is still a novel of love-however warped and disturbing it may be. Where the Phantom in Gaston Leroux's novel is a more well-rounded representative of human needs, Frankenstein really isn't. If anything he is a full throttled representation of anger and rage. And that is only one side of human dynamics. His is a living organism, created and plunked into the epicenter of humanity, a walking, thinking experiment that goes terribly awry. Frankenstein is not a creature of God-and perhaps therein is where the problem lies-but a concoction of man's arrogance and man's wickedness for unrepentant self-glorification. One could easily say that he is the genuine embodiment of the true son of Satan, albeit a human one. And that is truely appalling. He is the son of evil who is able to see and feel the horror of his own birth. How ironic! His abomination is both internal and external. Frankenstein obviously addresses numerous contemporary issues: the medical ethics of cloning, the wanton lack of family responsibility and the dangers that arise as a result of it, and lastly-the sometimes subtle, sometimes not-emotional evolution of humans into self-proclaimed gurus or demigods. Is there really a stark difference between Dr. Frankenstein and say, the megalomaniac Reverend Jim Jones of the People's Temple or Marshall Applewhite of Heaven's Gate? Dr. Frankenstein untimately comes to his senses when it is too late, but his desire for historical immortality via creative and scientific recklessness is no different then the hunger of contemporary, psychotic cultist gurus or tyrannical dictators-evil doers who are willing to go at any extreme in order to be remembered. Religion often plays a part in gothic works. The idea of a higher authority isn't always blatantly addressed, but its essence is surely felt. Dracula was at one point a human being who casts God to the side, makes his own decision and evolves into a horror of his own making. The phantom was a deformed being who, because of his skeletal appearance, was cast into the scummy bowls of Paris. But there was something that both of these characters had-and without sounding like a preacher-simply, they had God, a force whom they could turn to for strength and persistence. And what did Frankenstein have? A god, a father, a force who turned his back on him. Frankenstein is an especially sad novel, because the monster is truly alone in every sense of the word. He is a genetic calamity whereby only suicide could be his salvation. Mary Shelly incorporated many possibilities in this novel for the creature to find happiness, numerous inroads for human acceptance; a case-in point would be the various scenes with the creature's 'beloved' cottagers, but just when you think you have the progress of the story 'licked,' you are deceived and led down another road entirely: from hopelessness, to hope, to hopelessness, back to hope. Elegantly written and truly thought-provoking, Frankenstein is a novel that can't be limited in the things it has to say. A true classic.senses when it is too late, but his desire for historical immortality via creative and scientific recklessness is no different then the hunger of contemporary, psychotic cultist gurus or tyrannical dictators-evil doers who are willing to go at any extreme in order to be remembered. Religion often plays a part in gothic works. The idea of a higher authority isn't always blatantly addressed, but its essence is surely felt. Dracula was at one point a human being who casts God to the side, makes his own decision and evolves into a horror of his own making. The phantom was a deformed being who, because of his skeletal appearance, was cast into the scummy bowls of Paris. But there was something that both of these characters had-and without sounding like a preacher-simply, they had God, a force whom they could turn to for strength and persistence. And what did Frankenstein have? A god, a father, a force who turned his back on him. Frankenstein is an especially sad novel, because the monster is truly alone in every sense of the word. He is a genetic calamity whereby only suicide could be his salvation. Mary Shelly incorporated many possibilities in this novel for the creature to find happiness, numerous inroads for human acceptance; a case-in point would be the various scenes with the creature's 'beloved' cottagers, but just when you think you have the progress of the story 'licked,' you are deceived and led down another road entirely: from hopelessness, to hope, to hopelessness, back to hope. Elegantly written and truly thought-provoking, Frankenstein is a novel that can't be limited in the things it has to say. A true classic.	2003-01-02
US	51048130	R2X6S6RLY2Q5IH	006065337X	962886952	Hostage to the Devil: The Possession and Exorcism of Five Contemporary Americans	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A dark, horrid and disturbing peek into the marrow of evil.	As it reads in chapter twelve-43 through 45-in the Book of St. Matthew: \\"When the spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest and findeth none. Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findth it empty, swept and garnished. Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation.\\"<br />Exorcism seems like such an archaic ritual in today's au courant times, a liturgy that is often scoffed at by atheists and the medical intelligentsia as a 'colorful' ceremony that is nothing more than Catholicism at its lordliest apex. If it was a formality that served no purpose for Martin Luthar and the Protestant branch of Christianity, how could it help the rest of humankind? One half embraced the Roman rite while the other completely dismissed it, creating, ironically, a kind of purgatory for the ritual itself. This is how one facet of Protestantism differs from Catholicism; the former believes that faith alone can surmount the impediments that inflict humanity. The latter dictates that it takes more than faith alone, for the power of man, of woman, is not as mighty as we like to believe. Faith is the sword with which to combat the ills that curse and haunt us. The shield and other armaments-baptism, the holy Eucharist, the Sacrament of Penance, exorcism-are the wells of fortitude that cover for man's ineptness and his inability to see and acknowledge it.<br />Hostage to the Devil is an exhaustive and concentrated work of religious journalism, a book that offers to readers (via the five documented cases) an in-depth study of how possession comes about and explicitly showcases the loopholes and failures of psychiatric involvement. The case of the virgin and the girl-fixer-involving Black Mass, satanic formality and necrophilia-illustrate the point quite clearly. It must be understood that there are very defined and rigid guidelines that must be met before the rite can be approved by the bishop. Approval is not a willy-nilly procedure. It is slow, deliberate, contemplative and toilsome-a process that includes intensive psychiatric scrutiny-the latter a fact that many in the medical profession fail to admit when broached with the subject of possession and religious storm and stress. However stongly one hungers to quash science and psychiatry-as they are two fields that more often than not try to debunk any element of religiosity-their individual value to theology and doctrine is inestimable and must be acknowledged, as the research proffered to how the human mind operates has greatly streamlined for the church what battles it needs to fight and what battles it can leave to the medical experts. Even when the rite of exorcism is completed, the individuals involved are never fully the same; their souls are in intact, united with Christ, but physically they become depleted remnants of their former selves, endowed with a knowledge that was indeed very hard fought.	2002-09-10
US	51048130	R1DQOZHYPD3855	067974536X	462559287	Oleanna: A Play	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Oleanna: virulent, tense, political correctness run amuck.	It is an unfortunate truth: political correctness-sometimes but not always-overrides education. For a while, it has been extremely detrimental-inside as well as outside of the academic community-a fact Mamet has obviously noticed. For some people, whether they be students, educators or the general citizenary, it has become a tool to elevate their social and political standing, while for others, it has become a loaded weapon in order to inflict character assassination and injure deep-seated Constitutional rights, whether consciously or unconsciously. Something that is meant to refine an education-if it is not done to a ridiculously abnormal degree-can enhance the emotional senses, the perception (although sensing is a more inborn ability). However, when the general essence of civility becomes radically altered due to an excessive fusion with social politicking, it ceases to be civility. Rather, it becomes something else entirely. And when that happens, that is when the absurdity of overindulgent social commentary arises. A war of genuine verses pseudo intellectualism erupts, clashes, leaving in its wake bitterness, hubristic and sympathetic condescension  and a widened communication gap. David Mamet presents to his readers and audience the pros and cons of political correctness: the necessity and lunacy of it. Oleanna is a play with no middle ground; it is black or white, cut and dry. Period. It is the responsibility of the readers and audience to create the middle ground, to alleviate the extremity of the bipolar divisiveness. It is the audience and readers who must apply what they have just seen or read to the daily grind of life. The people are the workers, the ones who must create the compromises so that atmospheres-everywhere-do not resemble that of the Salem witch trials. Militant political correctnes, as presented in the latter half of Oleanna is authoritarian, oppressive and very palpably harmful. (Read pages 78-79.) Those excerpts, though admittedly extreme,are only a half of a wider issue that Mamet is trying to present. The other half is represented on pages 71 and 74. The extremes of both characters are quite stark-powerful in their own right-because the evolving situations have given them that. The Carol character doesn't simply want understanding as a person and student. She wants understanding of the academic material, literally, not the subtle partisan undertones that he (the professorial character of John) is blending into his teachings and pawning off as academic truth. In doing that, he ceases to be an educator, but altogether evolves into something entirely different: a fraud with unlimited power. When that evolution occurs, it needs to be corrected. In Oleanna, both characters need to be corrected. Ultimately, I believe they are. Oleanna is a great work of drama: honed, straightforward and sincere. Both halves of the same circle are equally discussed and probed.	2002-08-15
US	51048130	R1W6FL4IA0INJH	0385029039	171021797	The Autobiography of Saint Therese of Lisieux: The Story of a Soul	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A spiritually illuminatig confession of unbridled devotion.	To have a veritably sacred and loving bond with God is a wonderful and unexplainable sensation, an ecstasy that no degree of hyperbole can befittingly describe, for, it is an experience that is transcendent above all things earthly. When one searches to have a holy unification with the Lord, when they utter, \\"I love God,\\" they are seized by the ethereal clasp of the Divine. And it is good. Sometimes that celestial grip is so wonderfully strong, what emanates from the soul into the sanctified cup is overflowing, leaving copious amounts of blessed spillage. But 'spillage' is often deemed as a mess, the useless and unwanted remnants of our material gains, the wastes of humanity, the 'useless eaters' of society whom the public (myself included) at large, without flinching, tenaciously, soullessly, ignore. But in the case of Saint Therese of Lisieux, her spillage, quite simply, are her very words, loving pledges and unnterances that resound with unadulterated esoteric wisdom that is normally relegated to those who have lived well beyond their years. And even in old age-through a conscientious process of living and observing-it is very doubtful that one could possibly have attained, achieved the indefinate caliber of grace, purity and intelligence that she was obviously endowed with. Her words remind one and all that in the ugly there is beauty, in the hopelessness, there is hope, in the gravity, there is grace, in the challanged (mentally, physically), there is profound depth and courage, but it all derives from a glowing source: God, Jesus, the Holy Spirit. Her words teach, for she herself says on page 124: \\"...any small good deed I do can be mistaken for a fault, the mistake of calling a fault a virtue can be made just as easily.\\" When something moral is made to appear immoral and something immoral is made to appear moral, a blunt mental crash may easily occur, destroying that which was once soild and good: the innocence of youth a prime example, the weapon, one of many: social politics. Her autobiography, written with some reticence, brings forth (not fully) the story of how she came to be a Carmelite nun, but the stark affect God had over her: \\"One Sunday when I was looking at a picture of Our Lord on the Cross, I saw the blood coming from one of his hands, and I felt terribly sad to think that it was falling to the earth and that no one was rushing forward to catch it. I determined to stay continually at the foot of the cross and receive it. I knew that I should then have to spread it among other souls. The cry of Jesus on the cross--'I am thirsty'-- rang continually in my heart and set me burning with a new, intense longing. I wanted to quench the thirst of my Well Beloved and I myself was consumed with a thirst for souls. I was concerned not with the souls of priests but with those of great sinners which I wanted to snatch from the flames of hell.\\" P. X. In time, Saint Therese also worked for the souls of priests. It's a shame she's not here now. Her simple little book is not, true, a literary magnum opus, but its direct simplicity offers something of far better value; it is a work that led to her canonization by Pius XI in 1925, led to her being declared the principal patron (along with St. Francis Xavier) of all missionaries and missions and later, declared the secondary patron of France (with St. Joan of Arc). The book-like the Bible-has an inarguable power to move and clense: \\"I am only a weak and helpless child, yet it is in my very weakness which has made me daring enough to offer myself to You, Jesus, as the victim of your love. Long ago only pure and spotless victims were accepted by the almighty God. The divine justice could be satisfied only by immaculate victims, but the law of love has replaced that of fear, and love has chosen me as a victim-feeble and imperfect creature that I am. Is the choice of me worthy of love? Yes, it is, because in order for love to be fully satisfied it must descend to nothingness and transform that nothingness to living fire. I know, Lord, that 'love is repaid by love alone.' And so I have sought and I have found the way to ease my heart-by giving You love for love.\\" P. 162. If that is not what we're here for, the human race will never survive.	2002-05-30
US	51048130	R2RMT358D0CKTK	0802130283	17707404	House of Games	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Tough, tense, gritty and terse. Pure Mamet.	As far as screenplays go, House of Games is a work of great cutting quality; written in Mamet's recognized concise style, House of Games permeates with a foreboding, volatile aura. When a too structured and career-driven yet refined and scholarly Dr. Margaret Ford, psychiatrist and author of the best-selling self-help book, Driven, is duped into helping Billy Hahn, a young man with a gambling addiction, she gets more than what is bargained for. She is led into the seedy underworld of the con man and all the baggage associated with him: drinking, unabashed gambling, lasciviousness, intricately woven lies, extremity upon extremity. But it is all cleaverly camouflaged by the many defrauders whom she encounters as exciting danger, rebellion against the smothering laws that only \\"good\\" citizens adhere to and being on the outer fringes of decency, good breeding and highbrowism. Ford, who gravely lacks any form of enjoyment in her life, is immediately drawn to the pulsating raw truth and \\"think quick\\" lifestyle of the brazen swindlers, for they gradually convince her-through a series of cons-that all humanity are imbued-one way or the other-with absolute cold indifference, for if you get bamboozled, it's your own fault and you probably deserved it. Dr. Margaret Ford exemplifies that for everybody. But she does not merely epitomize as a victim, she typifies it, through her own unsettling metamorphosis, as a kleptomaniac, murderess, and ultimately, a con woman. She evolves from good, introverted intellectual and respectable doctor to a cunning, manipulative, vindictive killer with a proclivity for thievery. So then the question is posed: Was Dr. Ford inherently a repressed criminal or was she the product of the sleezy environment and those in it? As Ford penetrates to what she genuinely believes is the psychological core of the sharpie personality, she is led by the leader, Mike, into a smoothly orchestrated plot that eventually bilks her out of $80,000; soon after, the scheme goes terribly awry when Mike holds a mirror to Dr. Ford's face, a mirror that she long avoided looking into. <br />Mike: I \\"used\\" you. I did. I'm sorry. And you learned some things about yourself that you'd rather not know. I'm sorry for that, too. You say I acted atrociously. Yes. I did. I do it for a living. (He gives her a salute and starts for the door.)<br />Ford: You sit down.<br />Mike: I'd love to, but I've got some things to do. <br />She cocks the gun.<br />(Of gun:) You can't bluff someone who's not paying attention.<br />Ford shoots him. He falls.<br />Mike: Are you nuts? What are you...nuts...?<br />Ford: I want you to beg me.<br />A radical turnabout occurs whereby the aloof victimizer becomes the casuality of his own folly, only to be replaced by Ford, who progresses onward to hone and define his criminal teachings, meticulously making them more her own. Ford's criminality is even more severe, for she turns into one of the criminally addicted patients that she (by her medical practice) is designated to help; her overall presence is refined, classy, learned, delicate, vulnerable, unsuspecting. Those are the worst kinds of lawbreakers: A friendy face on the outside, and something entirely different on the inside.	2002-05-02
US	51048130	R27HIC0VW5V5JS	0061031690	271371893	Son of a Grifter: The Twisted Tale of Sante and Kenny Kimes, the Most Notorious Con Artists in America	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A grippingly frank memoir about love, loss, and survival.	In a time where the human psyche is incessantly bombarded with graphic tales of rape, robbery, grafting and murder, a person would be led to believe that the age of violence and vicious people has climaxed to such an extreme degree that nothing would be shocking anymore. One would think. But then Sante and Kenny Kimes-a cunning, sadistic, peacockish, manipulative, cold-blooded, greedy, murderous mother-son duo-enter the maelstrom of the media blitzkrieg, and the person rolls his or her eyes with the firm affirmation that there are still people out there in the world who can truly make you sick to your stomach. As a buxom beauty who often passed herself off as Elizabeth Taylor, Sante Kimes nee Chambers possessed charisma, an unremitting drive for wealth and the finer things in life, an acerbic wit and an intense overflowing cauldron of love for her two kids. But all of these qualities meshed into one was simply a weak veneer that covered the dominating, homicidal sociopath that she, in reality, was. For all her enveloping love, loyalty and excitement that she gave, Sante Kimes did not extend it out of the kindness of her heart, for, like a cult leader, she demanded complete allegiance, absolute devotion. Her philosophy (though radically off kilter) of how to live life might have been: What you do for me, I'll do for you. What you do to me, I'll do to you. You scratch my back, I'll scratch your back. More often than not, the people who 'scratched' Sante or Kenny's backs became more embroiled with law enforcement then the actual criminals themselves. Almost every deed that Sante and Kenny Kimes pulled had a psychotic tinge to it. Every emotion that they could turn on-like a light switch-was a combustible one. A halo of violence widended around them and those unfortunately catapulted into their inner sanctum (Ken Kimes, Sr. and Kent Walker are cases-in-point): arson, slavery, verbal and physical abuse, larceny, fraud, forgery, attempted murder, quadruple murder...Son ofa Grifter, written by the elder more emotionally balanced son, is an intensely disturbing read, because it will take the reader to the intimate core and private life of a genuinely dysfunctional, warped and soulless pair. Kent Walker doesn't simply give an analysis of his mother's utter rancorous and loathsome behavior. He talks about how her instability altered the personality of his half-brother, Kenny, once a loving child who was capable of showing empathy. In her emotionally volatile clutches, he became emasculated and lost his own identity; like his mother, he evolved into a psychopathic killer with predatory lusts, ready to act out at his mother's bidding. Arm in arm, mother and son walked down a bloody warpath, and those who obstructed them, conscientiously or not, were down away with: David Kazdin, Irene Silverman, Syed Bilal Ahmed...Sante Kimes wanted for her kids what all parents want for their children: a healthy mind, a healthy body and success. As a proprietor of a vacuum cleaning business, Kent Walker did not rise to be the CEO of HP, Xerox or a Fortune 500 company as his mother had envisioned for him. But considering his bizarre and frenetic upbringing, what Kent Walker achieved for himself and for his family goes beyond extraordinary; he in fact deserves his loving family, a cold beer and a damn good life.	2002-04-12
US	51048130	R1VVY5A7D7WN00	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A refreshing, breezy and direct reference book for writers.	Informational, witty, clear-cut and a simple enjoyment to read and learn from, William Zinsser's On Writing Well is a splendid reference tool, especially for those writers who specifically  favor the craft of nonfiction. Written in an easygoing yet private tone and style, the reader will feel like that he or she is getting a one-on-one tutorial from Zinsser. The book, as a previous reviewer noted, is divided into various sections. Part I being Principles, Part II being Methods, Part III being Forms and Part IV being Attitudes; I found Parts I, II and IV to be the most valuable, for the numerous subsections that are addressed within these parts include simplicity, style, clutter, unity, usage to the psychological aspects of writing-fear, confidence, the development of a diacritical voice, the joy and anguish of the final product, etc... Whether you are a writer of fiction or nonfiction, the subsections (with the exception of Part III: Forms)  are applicable to many genres, and Zinsser cites an abundance of examples from the differing writing categories. The writing fields are covered in Part III: Forms-travel writing, memoir and humor writing, writing about science and technology as well as columns and criticism. Within the framework of Part III, Zinsser does not simply examine the genres alone, he delves even further and studies the ranging grammatical theories that authors put to practice in their works. In an example, he presents to the reader the use of simplicity and voice via an excerpt from Maxine Hong Kingston's The Woman Warrior: &quot;When I went to kindergarten and had to speak English for the first time, I became silent. A dumbness-a shame-still cracks my voice in two, even when I want to say &quot;hello&quot; casually, or ask an easy question in front of the check-out counter, or ask direction of a bus driver. I stand frozen...&quot; In many cases, whether Zinsser is discussing clarity and clutter individually or the whole grammatical and writing enchilada, he gives ample examples for readers to study. I find that when my writing becomes too convoluted and long-winded, On Writing Well takes me back to the roots, the basics. It is, like The Elements of Style, unequivocally a reference book that is on a shelf all by itself.	2002-03-05
US	51048130	RBH9ASEORAC6T	0837155096	538708172	The Americanization of Edward Bok: The Autobiography of a Dutch Boy Fifty Years After	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An exhilarative peep into the process of Americanization.	In 1920, the former editor of the Ladies' Home Journal, Edward Bok, published his fascinating memoir, an exceptionally well-written book through which he candidly yet eloquently recounted the step-by-step process of his 'Americanization' from penurious immigrant Dutch boy to affluent pioneering American editor and philanthropist; hence, it is not a surprise that the work secured for its author both the coveted 1921 Pulitzer Prize for Biography/Autobiography as well as the Gold Medal of the Academy of Political and Social Sciences. Succinctly written using the third person narrative format, the book chronicles the humble beginnings of Edward Bok from when he was a child in Helder, Netherlands to how he and his family-like many immigrants of the time-fled to the United States as a result of the 'technological order' that brought about a wave of new opportunities. But it would not be in the world of hard-core industry where he would make his name; when Edward Bok left the Netherlands in 1870, he had but three things to sustain him: his family, his meager belongings and some advice from his Dutch grandmother-\\"...make you the world a bit more beautiful and better because you have been in it.\\" {P. xxi} Through the acts of frugality, laborious toil, absorption of American ideals and visions of a better life, Edward Bok slowly rose above the unbending economic classicism that unfortunately soldified the roots of many families as well as their descendents into harsh blue-collar drudgery. Though he never received a collegiate education, because he quit quite early, his leaving school was not the limitation of his intellectual instruction. Life was, in fact, the expansion of it, for it led him to acquire his learning in a most unorthodox fashion. For people who never receive an education, there is, for the most part, a hidden kernel of regret that sometimes becomes everlastingly needling and tragically overwhelming. As that is the con, the pro would be that they would be liberated from the arrogant pretentiousness and bemused condescension that a liberal education can sometimed imbue in one who is well learned. Neither of the above plagued Edward Bok. To quench his insatiable thirst for knowledge about what the essence of success was, he wrote to men and women of eminence, asking them not merely for their signature, but for a piece of wisdom, advice. And many-including Henry Ward Beecher, Louisa May Alcott, Samuel Clemens, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Ulysses S. Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman, among others-did not hesitate in the least to proffer advice. What began as a simple inquiry into success, ended as a voluminous mass of autographs and lettes that revealed the most intimate thoughts and beliefs of some of the greatest historical figures in American history, of which no dollar value could ever be placed. Through this inquist, Edward Bok not only found connections and valued friendships, but he whetted his editing and writing prowess, innate abilities that later led him to work for Henry Holt & Company, Charles Scribner's Sons and The Brooklyn Magazine (as editor); it too led him to establish The Bok Syndicate Press and eventually assume the helm, for thirty years, of the Ladies' Home Journal as editor and then vice president of the Curtis Publishing Company-which owned the magazine. While in command of the LHJ, he cultivated it into a powerhouse that brought about meaningful modifications to the United States, i.e. the better-babies movement, the teaching of social hygiene to youths of both sexes, the beautification of American cities (of which Lynn, Massachusetts was a part), the improving of home architecture and railroad cars, and most importantly, the passing of the Pure Food and Drug Acts by Congress. It was in America where he was able to prove himself: \\"As the world stands to-day, no nation offers opportunity in the degree that America does...the United States offers, as does no other nation, a limitless opportunity: here a man can go as far as his abilities will carry him...America can graft such a wealth of inspiration , so high a national idealism, so great an opportunity for the highest endeavor, as to make him the fortunate man on the earth today.\\" {P. 448} Durng the latter stages of Bok's life when he established the $100,000 American Peace Award, he did it because America gave him a second chance to work and prove himself, which is not always easy to come by. He did not adhere to the writings of Herbert Spencer, William Graham Sumner or Russell Cornwell, men with timeworn values who espoused the 'lordly' dogmas of Social Darwinism and the Gospel of Wealth-the former being \\"An ideology based upon the evolutionary theories of Charles Darwin, justifying the concentration of wealth and lack of governmental protection of the weak through the ideas of natural selection and survival of the fittest\\" while ther latter was a belief \\"that God ordains certain people to amass money and use it to further God's purpose; it justified the concentration of wealth as long as the rich used their money responsibly.\\" {P. 485 of America And It's Peoples: A Mosaic in the Making} Edward Bok clung to no person and no 'chic' belief, simply his faith, his industriousness and to humanity specifically. We need more Edward Boks in the world!	2002-02-27
US	51048130	R19MF1YDOO971Y	0679752609	159856880	Buddenbrooks: The Decline of a Family	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A polished, pensive exploration of eruptive human fatalism.	A classy, modernistic literary magnum opus that is truly representative of global literature, Thomas Mann's masterpiece about the bourgeois-which is a tornado of unceasing recherche prose and firmly solidified ideas-is a stylish prose epic, a historical and social whirlwind of unimaginable breadth and intelligence that will certainly leave the reader in absolute awe. Considered to be the first 'realistic' novel that dealt unreservedly in the exploration of grim day-to-day truths and harsh realities-divorce, death, social and economic abatement, transgression of conventional and societal norms, loss of ideology, faith, respect and madness-Buddenbrooks is an accurate replication of nineteenth century German aristocracy, small town highbrowism, and internal, familial oligarchic domination. Buddenbrooks is a novel that is framed in the form of generations, the first being the patrician class, the midpoint being the upper middle class and the latter ultimately representing the genteel lower class. The Buddenbrook Family at the start of the novel are a moralistic clan who cloy their materialistic needs whenever they feel the need to do so, whether it be lavish furnishings for their costly homes or vacations to the sea resort of Travemunde, they are a household, who, at the beginning, can afford their 'excesses.' But through a series of misfortunes and bad judgements, each generation becomes a little less well off than before. Coupled with the misfortunes and bad judgements are the inherent vices that some of the characters seem to possess: Christian's poor work ethic and theatre fetish, Antonie's unremitting superciliousness, Thomas Buddenbrook's stringent outlook of how life and society must function, Ida Jung[mann's] incessant coddling of young Hanno... For everything that is good and strong within this family, there is something bad and gnawing with which to combat it. The balance of justice, however, never seems to weigh down in the Buddenbrook's favor. There is a stark divide between the role of men and women; the former are the breadwinners and the latter are dainty butterflies who provide the care. But what happens when Christian and Hanno's perception of how life should be lived clashes with that of Thomas? It becomes a calamitous disaster that slowly takes root in anything and everything. And bit by bit, the decadant lifestyle so enjoyed by the numerous bon vivants, ebbs away until only one side is left standing to live unhappily in a new altered environment. In past novels, authors have tried diligently to tackle the theme of good vs. evil; the forms that good and evil have shown themselves have certainly varied over the years, but in Buddenbrooks, evil seems best represented in the form of social and economic classicism. It is something that has become sanctified to them. Although it represses some or all of the characters (you decide), wealth is something they all fervently strive for, despite the fact that it blatantly obstructs their true inner wants and needs-like drugs or alcohol; it is a cover-up for something deeper and more profound. Money seem to be the core to which the Buddenbrooks revolve, for it comes in many directions: Dowaries, the firm and various inheritances. But as all that happens, it slowly replaces the good qualities of the characters immediately affected. There is a loss of forbearance, empathy and understanding. That is best illustrated when Antonie-by a slow process of guilt-is bargained away like a piece of chattel to Herr Grunlich in the name of family honor. Love is love. Hate is hate. Human foibles can not be fixed so they adhere to other people's perceptions of what respectable is. The Buddenbrooks have many faults, but they do not allow those very human imperfections to take their natural course in life, and because that is so, they steep themselves into further social and economic muck and mire. As an assortment of characters pass away and the level of depression rises, the dignity held sosteadfastly at the start becomes quite eroded. And the only thing that is left standing at the end of the novel is faith-the one true possession of value above all the others. Buddenbrooks is fat and wonderful, an unyielding edifice of modernistic writing.	2001-11-20
US	51048130	R34C81BN3IHZOI	0934977631	708710783	Reeds in the Wind	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A flavorful and evocative rendering of an old Italian past.	Reeds in the Wind is a resounding success, for it is a literary work of art that is suffused with Sardinian folk culture, unwavering faith in Catholicism and vivid lore of the \\"dark beings who populate the Sardinian night...\\" Grazia Deledda's novel, set in the harsh, homely, bromidic Sardinian Galte (actually Galtelli) of Baronia, describes the arid, solitary landscape, where the sun continuously emits a slanting, hot coppery ray of light upon the reddened earth, and the melancholy panorama is adorned only by dilapidated huts and a cemetery abounding with dust and bones; hence, the attention of the reader is immediately focused not on the torpidity of the environment, but rather, on the inhabitants of it: Effix, Giacinto, Grixenda, Don Predu, Pottoi, Zuannantoni, Milese, Kallina and the three spinster sisters: Ruth, Ester and Noemi Pintor. The electric liveliness, the pulse, that normally spreads up and out in cosmopolitan cities is quite palpable. The lust and vibrancy of municipal life can be oozed out at the ends of a clenched fist, for the urbanity is the life blood that keeps people sane, but that is not the case in this territory, because it is the antipode of urbane. It is a vacuous hole that takes more than it gives, and tradition is the cudgel that keeps the residents at bay, preventing most of them from ever leaving and striving for growth, love and happiness. It is a land where the dead are not simply dominant, they are the rulers: P.3: \\"Effix could hear the sound that the panas-women who died in childbirth-made while washing their clothes down by the river, beating them with a dead man's shin bone, and he believed he saw the ammattadore (the elf with seven caps where he hid his treasure) jumping about under the almond woods, followed by vampires with steel tails. It was the elf that caused the branches and rocks to glitter under the moon. And along with the evil spirits were spirits of unbaptized babies-white spirits that flew through the air changing themselves into silvery clouds behind the moon. And dwarfs and janas-the little faries who stay in their small rock houses during the day weaving gold cloth on their golden looms-where dancing in the large phillyrea bushes, while giants looked out from the rocks on the moonstruck mountains, holding the bridles of enormous horses that only they can mount, squinting to see if down there within the expanse of evil euphorbia a dragon was lurking. Or if the legendary cananea, living from the time of Christ, was slithering around on the sandy marshland.\\" A fourth Pintor sister-Donna Lia-does escape the drudgery of mediocrity, marrying and having a child later named Giacinto who later visits his aunts. But to them, that is anything but pleasing: P.19: \\"...it seems like you aren't happy about Don Giacinto.\\" \\"Do I have to sing? He's not the Messiah!\\" That unpleasant tone swims across the bulk of the novel; it is a tone of harsh indifference. Donna Lia committed the ultimate sin by leaving the Pintor House; thus, her whole being becomes a sin and so too does her offspring, despite Giacinto's later desires to rectify past wrongs; he becomes an omen-bad luck. In life, in order for there to be a sense of unity and forgivness, somebody has to make the first move: P.79: \\"...If children can love one another, why must we old people hate each other? The remedy is in us.\\" But that is easier said than done. Traditionalism is strongly adhered to, and if faith can not heal the wanton needs and frivolity of those who feel they must escape because of the throttling suffocation that they are enduring, then the battle of good and evil becomes bigger and bigger: P.154: \\"Yes, once there was a king who had his people worship trees and animals, and even fire. God was offended and made the king's servants turn so bad they plotted to kill their master. And so they did. Yes, he made them worship a golden God. That is why there is so much love for money in the world, and even relatives kill relativesfor money.\\" But Effix, who is the servant to the Pintor women, is not a servant in the traditional sense; he is a servant of God, a human angel who tries to heal old wounds, mistrust, suffering. His varied tasks in this novel are not easy ones, but he rises to the complexities of human nature and later ascends to the glory of God. The characters in Reeds in the Wind truly embody human frailties and fatalism in, oddly, a lyrical but brusque manner. Suffering is human nature, and so, aren't we all Reeds in the Wind, pushed down by evil only to rise again?	2001-11-09
US	51048130	RFBWDI0ESTXR	0837190215	542071428	Miss Lulu Bett.	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Miss Lulu Bett: A jarring, cacophonous, theatrical calmity.	Dramaturgically scrimpy in dialogue, plot, character development and visualization, Miss Lulu Bett is anything but an American comedy of manners; it is American manure, at best. A jejunely piece of writing, it belongs in a literary purgatory, bouncing back and forth like a ping pong ball with its other run-of-the-mill literary ilk. It is neither evocative nor emotive of the human spirit, human desires or gashing human pains. It is an annoying lump in the stomach that goes nowhere. Hailed by critics and theatre-goers alike (squarely for its stripped emotional armor and restraint) when it debuted in 1921, Miss Lulu Bett eventually garnered the coveted Pulitzer Prize for Drama - a drama that was based on Zona Gale's novel of the same title (which must have been a wonderful reading experience). The play evolves around Miss Lulu Bett, a homely spinster whose life is her servitude to her waspish sister (Ina Deacon) and her hubristic 'man-of-the-house' brother-in-law (Dwight Deacon). Lulu is not goal-oriented, interesting or witty; she is overly ordinary, mousy by degrees and excessively hesitant about everything and anything. And when she does do something extraordinary, i.e. taking control of her life and future, even that seems bland - which was not the intent. Lulu is written in a fashion that is as exciting as staring at a piece of tarp. But in the play, that is precisely her role - to be the protective cloak that covers the exposed areas of vulnerability, and there are many gaping holes in the Deacon household. The writing structure and voice is inelastic and archaic. Like chalk dust, it can be easily blown away and dismissed. As the family doormat, whatever is festering in the family is eventually heaped upon dear, old, reliable, compliant Lulu. As the repetitive ruts within the play's confines march ahead, the drudging cycle is eventually broken when Lulu is introduced to Dwight's charismatic brother, Ninian Deacon, the one glimmer in the whole play. He encourages her to see her 'good' qualities (Were there any to start off with?), then proposes marriage to her in a manner that is neither legitimate or credible. And the fact that the proposal passed off as something plausible is still very questionable. Ultimately, the marriage is not acknowledged or spoken of because of the most absurd circumstances. In her brief union/respit, Lulu finds a kind of independence that she never felt before, and when the marriage is no more, she uses her past marital experience as a catalyst to start a new life away from her annoyingly ungrateful family. Miss Lulu Bett perhaps works better as an insignificant period piece. But as true drama, I don't think so.her to see her 'good' qualities (Were there any to start off with?), then proposes marriage to her in a manner that is neither legitimate or credible. And the fact that the proposal passed off as something plausible is still very questionable. Ultimately, the marriage is not acknowledged or spoken of because of the most absurd circumstances. In her brief union/respit, Lulu finds a kind of independence that she never felt before, and when the marriage is no more, she uses her past marital experience as a catalyst to start a new life away from her annoyingly ungrateful family. Miss Lulu Bett perhaps works better as an insignificant period piece. But as true drama, I don't think so.	2001-09-21
US	51048130	R38WRSI8NIS9AN	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A smooth literary concoction of smart thrills and chills.	A multi-layered, rousing novel of suspense that fuses psychological terror and violence with childhood innocence, The Absence of Nectar is a novel that is unified by different literary genres that forms a reading experience that is not simply unique, but also intellectually edifying, entertaining and occasionally corrosively comical. The protagonists - Alice and Boone Fendar - could be an updated Texan verson of Jem and Scout Finch from To Kill a Mockingbird. But their battle is not with the evils of racism and those who are benighted by unbridled hate; it is against an evil of equil horror: Simon Jester, a psychopathic stepfather whose rancorous and injurious deeds knows no bounds. It is the summer, a time of carefree, languorous innocence, a time for swimming, softball, drinking homemade lemonade to gobs of other summer fun - or so one would believe. As life is good for some, it is less so for others, the others being Alice and Boone. The crack-up of their family darts forth when their father abandons them, leaving Meg (the mother) to fend for herself as a beekeeper. But for someone who has consistently been dependent on the economic progression of the husband - the primary bread earner (in this case) - the task of becoming 'career-oriented' or evolving into a 'learned' woman of business, is something less than easy. An emotional struggle ensues within Meg - a battle against depression and all the mental infirmities that commonly strike women who are slowly stripped away of not only their identity and confidence, but most importantly, their perceptions of themselves, their self-worth. She takes drastic suicidal actions to prevent the obvious from occurring. The act fails, but it invokes enough of a scare to keep the family thinly glued together. But it does not last. Hence, things become unhinged, a role inversion happens: Meg becomes vulnerable and dependant while the kids become the caretakers. In order to regain a degree of family normalcy, the kids take theirmother to Hollow Cove on Lake Shine, and while there, Meg nearly drowns but is later saved by a stranger who eventually becomes husband #2. As Meg is blind sighted by all that she has endured, she fails to see what is most obvious to her children: Alice, keen in insight, rebellious in manner and Boone, lovingly innocent and somewhat odd, for he has a deep attraction to Persely Snow, a famous teenage murderess with a liking for poisons. The obvious is that Simon Jester has a very questionable past, the death of his wife and 'son.' The latter is a jaw dropping surprise. The Absence of Nectar is quirky, because it encompasses crime, coming-of-age cuteness and hard, trim prose. To relegate it as traditional fiction would be innaccurate, for it is mystery, literature, young adult and contemporary - all nicely knitted together - a coming-of-age novel that is not overly imbued with oozing saccharine hyperbole. Fans of Hepinstall's earlier novel, The House of Gentle Men, will not be disappointed with The Absence of Nectar.	2001-09-11
US	51048130	R2L3G344YB3L48	0316352942	992130387	Scoundrel Time	Books	5	6	12	N	N	An artful yet compendious, vitriolic written declaration.	Desensitized for a long time to the stressful pain of the infamous McCarthy period, Scoundrel Time must have been a most cathartic memoir for Lillian Hellman to write; it is, of the autobiographical trilogy, the most unfeigned and succinct of the three books. Her voice resonates, echoes, and behind hers, the voices of other 'Red Scare' victims closely follow. This is not her book alone; it is a book belonging to a past, present and future generation of people who were, are, and regrettably will be, victims of slanderous tales and virulent gossip. Scoundrel Time searchingly delves into a dark time in our country when Freedom of Speech, Religion, Press, Assembly and Petitioning of government was on a gossamer threshold to nonexistence. This memoir was also clearly the most difficult one for Lillian Hellman to write, for as she herself says, &quot;...I had a strange hangups and they are always hard to explain. Now I tell myself that if I can force them, maybe I can manage. The prevailing eccentricity was and is my inability to feel much against the leading figures of the period, the men who punished me. Senators McCarthy and McCarran, Representatives Nixon, Walter and Wood, all of them, were what they were: men who invented when necessary, maligned even when it wasn't necessary. I do not think they believed much, if anything, of what they said: the time was ripe for a new wave in America, and they seized their political chance to lead it along each day's opportunity, spit-balling whatever and with whoever came into view.&quot; (P.37) That 'new wave' hurt a lot of innocent people, human beings who were not spared the iniquitous rod of economic, career and social deprivation all because they, like Hellman, would not name names, who would not cede their code of conviction, honor and belief(s). The irony of this period is a true slap-in-the-face, for the Constitution and Bill of Rights, the most revered parchments of this country were verbally shaken into dust by those whowanted to shout and search out communistic evils where none existed in the first place. Like the Civil War of 1861 - the period of McCarthyism, name dropping, The House Un-American Activities, The Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, it turned brother against brother, friend into foe (Elia Kazan and Clifford Odets are perfect examples), rich people into poor. And in the end - the true tragedy is - nothing came out of the whole mess except a lot of miserable people who, by not subscribing to Truman's loyalty program or proposition of Americanism, sacrificed either their material luxury or worse, their character and integrity. Should a horrid 'craze' of this political and social nature (which really was a political subterfuge) ever arise in this land of republicism/democracy, I would subscribe to the very wise words of Lillian Hellman, &quot;I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year's fashions.&quot; (P.30)	2001-09-10
US	51048130	RS3SY9JKIC056	0316352888	584603648	Pentimento (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A fiercely intelligent continuation to An Unfinished Woman.	Pentimento: A Book of Portraits is electrfying in its earnestness and candor, incisive in its tone, acerbic in its wit and picturesque in its mental imagery - a memoir (unlike An Unfinished Woman) that is a bit more honed and focused and less formless in how the recollections and diary entries jump from one to the next. Be that as it may, let it not mitigate the merit of An Unfinished Woman, for in its own right, it is a very worthy read and most deserving of its National Book Award. Each chapter in Pentimento is framed, each segment representing a person, place or experience that had a certain signifigance to Lillian Hellman's life and development not only as a playwrite but as a person. The book chapters are listed as thus: Bethe, Willy, Julia, Theatre, Arthur W.A. Cowan, Turtle, and Pentimento. The writing fluidity is fragmented, almost jarring, but the fierce, explicit prose enhances the flavor of the volatile, broken mishmash of truth and hyperbole, a choice style that is not a detriment to what Hellman has to say. With magnetic intimacy, the portraits all have something meaningful to declare; they range from the profound to the wittily bizarre. The latter is best represented in the portraits entitled &quot;Arthur W.A. Cowan&quot; and &quot;Turtle.&quot; It is in these two portraits where Hellman's mordant humor especially shines.<br />From Arthur W.A. Cowan:<br />I said, &quot;Oh, shut up, Arthur.&quot;<BR>And he did, but that night as he paid the dinner check, he wrote out another check and handed it to me. It was for a thousand dollars.<BR>I said, &quot;What's this for?&quot; &quot;Anybody you want.&quot;<BR>I handed it back.<BR>He said, &quot;Oh, for Christ sake take it and tell yourself it's for putting up with me.&quot;<BR>&quot;Then it's not enough money.&quot; (P.235)<br />And<br />From Turtle:<BR><br />Toward afternoon I telephoned the New York Zoological Society of which I was a member. I had a hard time being transferred to somebody who knew about turtles. When I finished, the young voice said, &quot;Yes, the Chelydra serpentina. A ferocious foe. Where did you meet it?&quot;<BR>&quot;Meet it?&quot;<BR>&quot;Encounter it?&quot;<BR>&quot;At a literary cocktail party by a lake.&quot; (P.278)<br />Considering the period, the one-liners are quite sharp; the portrait that obviously stands out the most is &quot;Julia,&quot; the 'supposed' friendship that developed between Hellman and a Freud disciple who happened to be an anti-facist supporter - a 'friendship' that later formed the basis for the Academy Award-winning film of the same title. Whether the story is fact or fiction, that is up for the reader to decide. Whether &quot;Julia&quot; represented a single woman or a group of dedicated individuals fighting to stop/lessen the evils of war whom Hellman truly admired and who thus wanted her name associated with, may also never be known. But what can be said of the Julia portrait is that it is a written down homage to a person or persons who tried to make a positive difference in that dark epoch of our global history.	2001-09-05
US	51048130	R36WARZL24JA37	0316352853	173134841	An Unfinished Woman: A Memoir (Back Bay Books)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A crisp, dynamic, theatrical, literary memoir.	A life where no living is done is a life not worth living. Like O'Neil, Shaw, Williams and Isben, Lillian Hellman (1905-1984, scriptwriter, playwrite, social and political activist and critic) wrote some of the most enduring and thought-provoking drama for the theatre in the 20th century, and the above 'proverb' could very easily have been her epitaph. An Unfinished Woman (Winner of the 1969 National Book Award for biography/Autobiography), the first memoir in her autobiographical trilogy (the two others being Pentimento: A Book of Portraits and Scoundrel Time), showcases a woman who had a 'steel rod' for a spine, a woman of stark liberty who would not compromise her beliefs nor truckle in the presence of those political, military and literary higher-uppers (Hemmingway is a case-in-point) whom she encountered who expected a cowering reaction due to their 'clout.' But that was something she never offered, for as Lillian Hellman said of herself when asked the question, &quot;What are you made of, Lily?&quot; Her cool response was, &quot;Pickling spice and nothing nice.&quot; This 'confession' of glued-together memories and eloquent journal entries shimmers with quiet, concentrated reflection and introspection. Each chapter gleams and flashes like a beacon, slowly proffering insights into not simply a remarkable life but a frozen portrait of a bygone era - a period of class, dignity, wisdom, self-learning, an endless stream of wonderful things that are presently no more. She hobnobbed with the best and brightest, luminaries like: F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemmingway, William Faulkner, Dorothy Parker, John Hersey, Averell Harriman, and of course, above them all, her truelove and literary confidant, Dashiell Hammett. As a globe-trotting cultural attache' to Russia, France, Germany, and other European lands, she lived and saw intrigue with those of her like mind. She was on the front lines (or very close to them) during World War II. She witnessed bombed out villages and destroyed lives, all the emotional and physical calamities that the horrors of war can funnel forth, broadcasting them for all to hear and imbibe. She participated (with some trepidation) in the PEN (Poets, Playwrites, Essayists and Editors and Novelists) Center Conference, conversing with intellectuals on the pressing issues of the time, but her reluctance was most unequivocal, for intellectual chitchat can, and for her, did quickly evolve into a bombastic mess on hyperbolic, pretentious proportions. She saw B.S., and she saw truth, not hesitating in the least to speak her mind or to write about it. From her reminiscences of her New Orleans girlhood with her beloved caretaker Sophronia, to her shuffling to New York, to her failed marriage and her father's infidelity, Hellman's life only crescendos. With corrosive verve, 'salty' wit and profound insight, Lillian Hellman lets the past truly come alive. In the end, she showed one and all that she was an 'empowered' woman before many thought that could ever be possible.	2001-08-27
US	51048130	R1HVGFJS5Q36K1	0820319562	601499010	Scarlet Sister Mary: A Novel	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A nervy and literary tour de force in American writing.	Written by former plantation mistress Julia Peterkin, Scarlet Sister Mary is a novel of intellect, individualism, coltish word play, tradition and most importantly, respect. The novel, like, Their Eyes Were Watching God and The Color Purple, is written in an old southern vernacular, and it tells the story of Sister Mary or Si May-e, a young and sprightly woman at the novel's start. It is some time after Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, and freedon (used loosely, historically speaking), has come for those individuals who were field slaves or indentured servants. Their opportunity to flee has come, to seek opportunities for self and financial betterment. For some, however, betterment is not up north or anywhere else in the country; it is exactly where it is: the native coastal terrain of South Carolina - the setting for the novel. Religion, faith, folklore, generational history and magic are the ties that bind the folksy and hard working men and women of the Quarters. Dignity and peacefulness does not come from being nomadic, as was in the case of the pioneers to the Midwest and far West; it is closer. It is in the hoeing, the field labor, the mud between the crevices of the rough and crackling flesh. It is in the earth. To combat the joyous harshness of the work is love and a family. And thus, Sister Mary comes into the picture; she is at the marrying age, and July, her suitor, is ready to be her protector and provider. Or so one would believe. Using faith in lore and mythology, Sister Mary's marriage is almost doomed from the start: &quot;'Do, Master, look down and see what a rat is done!' Mary's heart flew up into her mouth. Cold chills ran over her as she ran to see what happened. There it was, a great hole gnawed deep into the bride's cake's tender meat...she fell into bitter dumb sobs...Such bad luck was hard to face.&quot; (p.29) And it only advances to something worse via the aid of a love charm and another woman's insatiable lust for the groom's affections. Time passes, and Mary is all alone with her son Unex (shortened for Unexpected). A suffocating cover of depression smothers Sister Mary, and as time heals old wounds, Mary rises into a life of self-satisfaction and sexual gratification. She enters the dominion of sin and religious transgression; she is altered in the eyes of those around her. From Sister Mary, she becomes Scarlet Sister Mary - red with hungry passion as the adjective implies. She has a flock of children, but they are not heart children, as in the case of Unex, but they are passion, lust children. Redemption is nil, and her destiny upon her final breath (in the eyes of her brethren) is clearly understood; her spirit, her soul, is scudding rapidly to the flaming and billowing sulphur pitts of hell. Can redemption and acceptance ever come into her grasp? Will peace ever rectify the wrongs incurred in her heart and mind? Her somewhat sardonic life philosophy and world-weary actions narrow down the chances for hope. But that hand-clenching curiosity does get solved. Banned in Boston when it was first published in 1928 and winner of the 1929 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, Scarlet Sister Mary is a classic among classics - lyrical in prose and description, vivid in the intellectual exploration of the &quot;Negro question&quot; - (vii) and complex as well as humane. But it is by no means an accurate representation of a specific catagory of people. Consequently, the work, although brilliant, is slightly antiquated and beguiling.	2001-07-23
US	51048130	R2POGDAC5X5EQD	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A clearly framed horrifying account of cold-blooded murder.	The murders that are graphically depicted in Truman Capote's In Cold Blood -which is now universally recognized more for its writing than anything else- are nauseating, grisly and malicious; these words do not aptly describe the frightful overtone, essence and nub of the book - that violence is not purely restricted to inner cities and to metropolises. The murders that occurred on 15 November 1959 in Holcomb, Kansas is the exclamation point to that alarming fact. Violent murders can happen in places like Holcomb where, &quot;The village (of Holcomb) stands on the high wheat plains of western Kansas, a lonesome area that other Kansans call 'out there.' Some seventy miles east of the Colorado border, the countryside, with its hard blue skys and desert-clear air, has an atmosphere that is rather more Far West than Middle West. The local accent is barbed with a prairie twang, a ranch-hand nasalness, and the men, many of them, wear narrow frontier trousers, Stetsons, and high-heeled boots with pointed toes. The land is flat, and the views are awesomely extensive; horses, herds of cattle, a white cluster of grain elevators rising as gracefully as Greek temple are visible long before a traveler reaches them.&quot; [Page three] That image of oridinary middle America with traditional homspun values that predated the golden age of Camelot dose not seem like the appropriate setting for a bloody quadruple homicide. But that in fact is cold, hard reality that can not be altered, irrelevant of society's wish for the prevention of outside ills to seep into the homogeneous and community-oriented sub-societies like Holcomb. The murders, which are a strong facet in this book, goes beyond senseless evil; it is outside human intellectual and logical reach, because during the latter part of fifties and early sixties, the study of criminology, sociology and the psychological sciences was nowhere near as honed and accurate as it is today. It was just four gruesome unsolved murders. The cure: get the person or persons responsible and punish them to the full extent of the law. Case closed. In Cold Blood is writtien in that same straight-forward, stick-to-the-facts fashion. Capote stuck to the actualities at hand; he did not interlace the act of murder with scientific/psychological reasoning as to why it happened. He knew that it was not for simple financial gain; there was something deeper and more profound involved. I think Capote was curious about that aspect of it, but it raised questions regarding his standard of objectivity when writing about the wondering and soulless lives of Perry Smith and Richard Hickock. In Cold Blood is representative of a true American tragedy on all counts, for you have the horrid slaughter of the Clutter family,  and in another way, you have the death of two men who could have become something more than what they ended up if their circumstances early in their life had been just a little bit different. Ultimately, the punishment for the crime was well deserved, if not a tragedy in its own right. All told, there are no words that can appropriately express the emotions that are evoked when the book is entirely read through. For me, I did not know what depleted my emotions more: the fantastic breadth of writing adroitness or the vividly detailed vicious massacre of the Clutter family and the muddled lives of its two very sad criminals. I now realize that it is a definate hybrid of the two - a true but grim American classic where the act of murder and its consequences is stunningly written and astonishingly articulated.	2001-06-29
US	51048130	R2IG2RCQZZR7BA	0802130917	863357192	Glengarry Glen Ross: A Play	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A snappy, taut, intense social commentary about life.	Glengary Glenn Ross is a dense, throttling work in which the lead characters - day-to-day salesmen at a real estate firm - take on the role of career-hungry hatchet men whose primary goal is to sell, sell, sell at whatever cost, for the word 'No' does not exist in the global lexicon. The characters: Roma, Williamson, Levene, Moss and Aaronow, must mark their territory, must carve their niche in the rigorous business world, must clasp on to, in sheer desperation, their paltry slice of the American pie, for if they do not, others will not hesitate to use their cunning deceit and quenchless greed to take that opportunity which others are reluctant to take. One would believe that Mr. Mamet wrote this play to showcase to his readers and audience the avariciousness, hypocrisy, indifference and duplicity that seemed to be an inherent characteristic of the corporate business person and booming yuppie generation of the eighties. But this play can not be pigeonholed as a representation of a single decade, for the corporate mentality can not be boxed in. It can and will expand, but to the dismay of many, it can't be stopped, because if it does, only economic and social horror will arise. For some individuals in this line of work, it is a Catch-22. David Mamet elucidates the Catch-22 factor very palpably in this play. In one sense, to be reasonably prosperous in business, you have to be tough and occasionally rotten to the core. If you are, success may come in your direction. On the other hand, if you are kind and a sort of middle man or below that in respects to leadership qualities, the attainment of wealth and success might as well be nil. There is no middle ground; the characters are either one or the other, and God help the person who does not have the thick skin to survive emotionally in business. It is hard to keep moving on with something when (the characters especially) have so much invested in it, and worse, when they hate it:<br />Aaronow: Did they find the guy who broke in the office yet? Roma: No. I don't know. Aaronow: Did the leads come in yet? Roma: No. Aaronow: Oh, God, I hate this job. (Page 108)<br />Glengary Glenn Ross does not read like a traditional literary play that tugs at the heartstrings like some other works. And that is why it is so unusual; the language, the dialogue, is gritty, curt and quick-witted. The profanity is sometimes excessively base. The whole play is unreserved. Needless to say, a crime is committed in the firm. Who did it? Why was it done? And what does the crime teach the person? This work isn't just about the exploration of morals and priorities in the business world, for if it was, it would severely limit and mollify its power and depth. What the play teaches is that the all mighty dollar and all the material accoutrements that come with a fine and flourishing career might be more of a detriment to the true inner qualities that we do not allow ourselves as human beings to show for fear of being dumped upon and cast aside to the gutter. This play is not embossed with excessive dripping sweetness or philiosophical musings; it is  emotionally volatile, and as a 'practical' sales dictum or truism might communicate: If you can't handle it, get off the ship.	2001-06-19
US	51048130	R2HV2UUIPH5FCU	0395478049	447464372	Offshore	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Vividly gratifying and incisive book that never drains away.	Engossingly sagacious in observance and unremitting in economical prose, Offshore is a sententious written work of art that owes its eloquence to its timeless and picturesque narration as well as its breakneck character development. Like Hemmingway, the late Penelope Fitzgerald carefully chose her diction, framed it beautifully and perspicuously articulated it. Rest assured, readers, there is no verbiage or cluttered wording in this book; each word, sentence, has a clearly defined purpose. Her phraseology is literary without being rhetorical, candid without being laconic and attractive so as not to be excessively slavish. If the totality of the novel is written in a too secure fashion, it is not surprising that the story takes place on the Battersea with a group of somewhat lost, Bohemian, barge-dwelling souls. The fragmented lives of the characters and the manner in which they choose to live is anything but rigid. The characters are neither land-dwellers nor sea-dwellers; they are in between - the middle - fluctuating like their barges in utter confusion or utter certainty. For them, however, they are in certain confusion. That is the one thing they are sure of, so it is probably appropriate that they live where they do, in a sense: a no-man's land. The rigorous and hard-edged juxtapositional phrasing is almost like the character mentality: grim, intense, uncertain, twisting, sometimes amorphous. Applying these emotions to the human perception of daily life makes these characters almost depressing and pathetic to want to comprehend. But they are real and genuine emotions. That is the pith of this work. The repetitive mental grayness that thrusts the story forth is rather weary in it hardships, and its subtle dry wit is almost unrecognizable if one is not looking - in vain - for it. The abruptness of the novel's ending may seem unsatisfactory, but it is appropriate: &quot;The hatch in front of them flew open and the frame, tilted from one side to the other, gave them a sight of the wild sky outside...As the battering wind seized them they had to stoop along in the darkness, fighting for handholds, first the base of the old pulley, then the mast. Three toasters sailed away like spindrift in the gale still blowing hard north-west.&quot; (P.139-140) The minds of some of these characters appears to be in prevalent disarray. In a state like that sometimes the best way to get out of it is with the help of the people we have around us, like in this barge-dwelling community. To surmount the oncoming gale, Nenna, Maurice, Edward and the lot are not only dependent on themselves, but on the able efforts of each other: a community of willing friends. To stumble off the golden path of destiny and wind up in a realm of  havoc and haze is a hard truth of what life can offer. But it is an easy thing to accept depending on the people around you. This is a book imbued with world wisdom and hard falls.	2001-05-31
US	51048130	R1L7ULFK6T7N3U	0571199976	650805783	Proof: A Play	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Proof the play is proof what flawless drama should be.	To use hyperbole to express onto readers the profundity and intelligence or 'mother wit' of this play would not do it a hint of justice, but rather, it would be another run-of-the-mill complementary liturgy. It won the 2001 Pulitzer Prize for Drama. And that alone speaks volumes.<br />Using an atmosphere or background in which mathematics is prevalent - but not entirely so in respects to clearly jotted out theorems and formulas (for everything that is math oriented in this drama is rather undefined and ambigous) - the play's theme(s) gyrate around one central character: twenty-five-year-old Catherine, her dad's care provider and an unknown math genius and three strong supporting characters, sometimes very aseptic and in other turns quite audacious: Robert, the Dad, a former math professor/academic math celebrity, in his fifties, Hal, twenty-five, a semi-carefree educator and graduate student under Robert and lastly, Claire, twenty-nine, a nagging sister to Catherine and daughter of Robert.<br />When one thinks of super bookishly or scholastically (research-wise, that is) gifted individuals, it is normally believed that folks of this nature tend to lean towards the sidelines - to a realm of reflective alienation and unavoidable, suffocating derangement: madness through and through. This is a commonly held perception that is strongly associated to those rare math demigods/goddesses. They are deemed (but not always) as shy, introverted, awkward, asexual social oddities who are mentally a tad off kilter in the world of beer slurping, vulgar/inelegant party celebrants. However, the Hal character in the play mitigates that academic myth....<br />Proof, in essence, is almost written like a mathematical illustration or equation. The play - scene by scene - is broken up like a puzzle; it flutters backward and forward. And you have to go back, like in a math problem, in order to solve it.<br />Whatever Proof is, there is no denying that it is a startling, shotgunning drama that is worthy of vast readership. That alone is the highest complement one can pay to an author.	2001-05-29
US	51048130	RSB2JH57KFNJK	0807609579	443957471	Faces in the Water	Books	5	58	59	N	N	A consternating glimpse into the incurable realm of madness.	Janet Frame's Faces in the Water belongs on the same shelf with such contemporary books: The Bell Jar and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. But in its grim earnestness and somber naturalism of reality, it is a biographical novel that is on an echelon all by itself.<br />Janet Frame, one of New Zealand's most redoubtable and esteemed novelists and twice a contender for the Noble Prize in Literature, used facets of her own (earlier) melancholic life for the creation of the novel's protagonist, Estina Mavet, a young and misunderstood, if not a bit shy, woman - a character who emblematized the author herself.<br />The novel is told in a tight, structured first person documentary narrative. The book is so wonderfully crafted, and the psychological distance and adroitness in observation of the narrator is so unfeigned, it is a marvel to behold. A reader would believe that the character of Estina was a fly on the wall observing the goings-on of its environment, but that would quickly change as he/she is snapped back into reality when some of the other characters come into play: the nurses Sister Bridge, Matron Glass, Sister Honey, Nurse Clarke to Dr. Steward and Dr. Portman, to the sundry number of incurable female patients Maudie, Carol, Bertha, Violet, down the gamut.<br />The incarceration of Estina and those believed to be her mentally 'damaged' like takes place in two mental institutions: Cliffhaven and Treecroft. The two hospitals are essentially divided into wards, each safeguard representing the level of madness that correlates to the tormented patient. With Estina, her placement varies from Ward One, Two or Four. While progressing through the book, the reader is never truly exposed to Estina's actions but rather her inner thoughts. And the writing that represents the narration of her ordeal is crisp, cutting and luminous. From E.S.T. (electroshock treatment) to the dreaded lobotomy, Estina goes through it all, narrowly missing having a 'brain readjustment.' The horror of the latter part, I think, is perfectly elucidated on pages 213 to 216:<br /> &quot;We don't like to see you here,&quot; he said. &quot;There's an operation which changes the personality and reduces the tension, and we decided it would be best for you to have the operation.&quot;<br />  And<br /> &quot;With your personality changed,&quot; she said, &quot;no one will dream you were what you were. So many patients have had this operation or are going to have it. I know one woman who was here for twenty years and now -what do you think?-she's selling hats in one of the fashion stores in town. And she used to be in seclusion, like you.&quot;<br /> &quot;I don't think I could sell hats,&quot; I said doubtfully.<br /> &quot;You've no idea what you'll be able to do. You'll be out of the hospital in no time instead of spending your life here as otherwise you'll have to do, my lady, and you'll get a good job in a shop or perhaps an office, and you'll never regret having had a lobotomy.&quot;<br />As the Estina's story winds down and the climax of horror lessons (I'll let you guess what happens), the story has a very exquisite and refined ending, a completeness, a totality, like a Charles Dickens novel. There is a definative statement that is elicied from this work: compassion, understanding, valuing life no matter how unpleasant it may be. For that alone and what Janet Frame endured, she should receive a Nobel.rror of the latter part, I think, is perfectly elucidated on pages 213 to 216:<br /> &quot;We don't like to see you here,&quot; he said. &quot;There's an operation which changes the personality and reduces the tension, and we decided it would be best for you to have the operation.&quot;<br />     And<br /> &quot;With your personality changed,&quot; she said, &quot;no one will dream you were what you were. So many patients have had this operation or are going to have it. I know one woman who was here for twenty years and now -what do you think?-she's selling hats in one of the fashion stores in town. And she used to be in seclusion, like you.&quot;<br /> &quot;I don't think I could sell hats,&quot; I said doubtfully.<br /> &quot;You've no idea what you'll be able to do. You'll be out of the hospital in no time instead of spending your life here as otherwise you'll have to do, my lady, and you'll get a good job in a shop or perhaps an office, and you'll never regret having had a lobotomy.&quot;  <br />As the Estina's story winds down and the climax of horror lessons (I'll let you guess what happens), the story has a very exquisite and refined ending, a completeness, a totality, like a Charles Dickens novel. There is a definative statement that is elicied from this work: compassion, understanding, valuing life no matter how unpleasant it may be. For that alone and what Janet Frame endured, she should receive a Nobel.	2001-03-20
US	51048130	R2TF84TAWI49Y7	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An unpretentious, emotive fictional memoir like no other.	After reading the biography of Pulitzer Prize winning poetess Anne Sexton of Newton, Massachusetts who committed suicide in 1974, I was gripped by the genuineness as well as the frank simplicity of The Bell Jar. In the Sexton biography - written by Diane Wood Middlebrook - there is a biographical passage on page 107 where, at the Ritz Hotel, Sylvia Plath and Anne Sexton are having martinis and discussing suicide: &quot;Often, very often, Sylvia and I would talk at length about our first suicides; at length, in detail, and in depth between the free potato chips. Suicide is, after all, the opposite of the poem. Sylvia and I often talked opposites. We talked death with burned-up intensity, both of us drawn to it like moths to an electric light bulb. Sucking on it!&quot; One can only imagine the two grand dames of poetry confessing and professing to one another how they attempted it and would vow to do it successfully the next time around. I gather in the interim of their morbid discourse, Plath's haunting (if that is an approropriate word) statements as well as Anne's invoked within one another feelings of invidious, pressing desire for their own quiet world, a world not burdened by day-to-day realities. The Bell Jar, however, is not a literary biography in the true defination. Rather, it is a fictional memoir in the same element to that of Fredrick Exley's A Fan's Notes, but it is written in the similar stlye to that of her literary compatriot J.D. Salinger and his semi-acidulous novels. In it, we have Esther (Plath), a very endowed, intelligent young woman who wins a summer position as an editor/writer for a New York magazine; after that job, things begin to slide, mentally, for Esther. She is more than  bright (Plath herself received a Fulbright Scholarship to Cambridge University), but there is a strong percolating aura that everything around Esther is too run-of-the-mill for her unique and unquiet mind. And when the mind is unique, restless and sickly, those become the proper ingredients for what Esther suffers and endures - a depression that goes beyond fatalism. With a rejection to a writing course and a lack of sincere understanding, she spirals downward to her mental breakdown, her bell jar firmly encapsulating her in the realm of madness. Her options for a cure are worse then the disease itself: electrical shock therapy, incarceration to a mental hospital, psychiatrists, attempted suffocation, warm water and a Gillette blade, and lastly and perhaps more potently, a lack of understaing of what she was going through. This isn't a novel that says, Pity me! It says, Undersatnd me! This is who I am! This is what I am going through! This is what I am seeing! This is how I am feeling! When the mind is inundated with the horrors of truths and medical misunderstandings, the chosen path can lead a person to a place he/she can never return from. Perhaps, in some ways, a lot more smaller to Sylvia's and Anne's, all of humanity lives in a bell jar.	2001-01-11
US	51048130	RZITKFN3MUM0W	0140070206	246115572	Ironweed: A Novel	Books	5	44	47	N	N	A witty and philosophic novel to quench the reading thirst.	In life, we all make mistakes, some more than others. People do not grow into faultless perfection. That is something that is done through hard work and deep thought, and even then, it is not fully achieved - much to our dismay. People sometimes unsuccessfully surrender themselves to their fantasies, their ideologies, and thus, make big mistakes, for to err is human. The protagonist in William Kennedy's Ironweed - Francis Phelan - is certainly no exception. He is a man who has made one too many mistakes. From the murdering of a scab, to his accidentally killing his son, to taking refuge in alcohol, to family abandonment, it becomes a grim picture of a life not worth living. All this stretches out before and beyond the Great Depression of 1929. <br /> In youth, Francis had looks, health, vitality and a burgeoning baseball career that included such notables like Ty Cobb, Tris Speaker and Eddie Collins. But then it all disappeared to mediocrity and then into something even less than that. One would figure, like Job in the Bible, Francis would scream, &quot;God, wht hast thou forsaken me?&quot; He does not do that. In that respect, that is what makes this novel so refreshing. It does not evolve into a pity party, although the theme, plot and environment would lead a reader to think otherwise. Francis and his associates, specifically Helen Archer and Rudy, just propel themselves onward, despite or until mental and physical difficulities impede them. The characters don't whine or pout; they just deal with it. When the joys of life ebb away into that which we do not think we can handle, that's when the true self emerges, the thick skin manifests itself during adversity. <br /> Despite what I have written, it is not all grim and tragic. Far from it. In darkness there is light, and that is especially true in the latter part of the book. The jocularity of the dialogue and semi jocund personalities of the characters give this novel an uplifting air of hope and possibility. Andit makes one belive that no matter how dark our times may be, no matter how tragic our circumstances are, somewhere, in the far off distance, there is a gleaming ray of hope at the end of the tunnel.	2001-01-04
US	51048130	R3QLMIYFEYRSA5	0140179836	951224713	The Liars' Club: A Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A honed, rasping memoir infused with grit, class and wit.	Mary Karr's The Liar's Club embodies everything that a good memoir should: tragedy, comedy, indignation, depth, integrity, prose of immaculate crystalline lucidity, a moral acuteness of perception, and last of all - salvation. This memoir has really blazed itself into my memory. It is not for the beauty of the language alone that makes this story memorable, but it is for the horrors that the author had to endure while as a child - and in some respects - as an adult. In the age of youth, one never expects to have to contend with sexual abuse, alcoholism, a mentally unstable but deep down good mother, broken dreams and a continuous forging ahead not to stability and groundedness, but to that of the extreme opposite: a slow psychologiacl shredding of the mental equilibrium and much much worse. One would believe that before Mary Karr ever made it to young womanhood, she would have made it first into a mental institution. But with the East Texas backdrop as one of many scense in the memoir, that is a strong indication that no matter what happens, as Texans are quite fond of saying, &quot;Don't mess with Texas,&quot; thus, &quot;Don't mess with Mary Karr!&quot; Throughout the work, if there is anything that will clasp the reader's attention, besides the vivid descriptions of scenery and abhorrent acts of debasing abuse and other vices, it will be Karr's use of similes and metaphors. They are so pirecing and bold that that alone is worth the price of the book.In terms of memoirs, this one being the catalyst that started the 'confessional' craze, The Liar's Club is a sinfully comical story of a baleful childhood, a true classic in the memoir canon.	2000-12-28
US	51048130	R381U9W4WOLHDM	1559361948	550281741	Dinner with Friends (TCG Edition)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Affecting. Modernistic. Real. Sad. Annoying.	The euphoric and blissful bubble that a functioning relationship can father is a wonderful thing. When two individuals are linked by common interests, shared ideals and beliefs, nothing in respects to a career, money or fame can come close to it; it is a wonderful, natural high to experience true love. However, what happens when a marriage does not work and the foundation that eventually led to that marriage was an erroneous one? In Dinner With Friends, playwright David Margulies explores just such a situation.<br />We have two couples, Beth and Tom and Karen and Gabe, all somewhere in their forties and all the best of friends; the former couple, Tom in particular, has grown rather weary about his  workaday existence as a lawyer. His energy for life has waned dramatically, and who does he pour his blame on? His artist wife Beth. She in turn blames him for not being open enough. Thus, the blame game starts to take root. The latter couple, Karen and Gabe, get woven into this battle due to their friendship, a friendship that slowly begins to crack when they try to comprehend the depth of their friend's unhappiness, i.e. the banal conversations, the duty of paying off a mortgage, the raising of kids, etc.  It is essentially the story of four baby-boomers who do not like the turn their lives are taking. One couple breaks up, and in the process of doing so, they almost develope a 'plastic' or 'artificial' Ken and Barbie personality, that because I'm divorced now I jog more and have better sex. An arrogant happiness developes. That artificiality affects Karen and Gabe deeply, because they debate if their friendship was one of a genuine nature. The good times of the past are no more, so what is there to look forward to?<br />Karen and Gabe are scared at the transition that their 'old' friends took, for if it happened to Tom and Beth, it could happen to anyone. And therein is where the power of this play lies: that divorce can happen to anyone. <br />In its own right the play is smartly written: vibrant, sharp, stinging, fast-paced and edgy. A smart, wry drama about an unpleasant and common issue.	2000-11-29
US	51048130	RV1UMT5AR0R5V	0679734813	589703838	Six Degrees of Separation: A Play	Books	5	44	46	N	N	A disturbingly funny play that examines race and class.	Based on the true story of a wealthy, well-meaning liberal couple in the upper echelons of New York society's upper crust, we have Flan or Flanders Kittredge and his wife Ouisa or Louisa; the former is a standoffish but deep down good-hearted art dealer in the private sector who has a penchant for the works of Kandinsky and Cezanne; the latter is his wife, articulate and intelligent who is in need of something of greater meaning and depth other than money, art, fancy restaurants and wealthy friends. <br /> And so the evening commences with a friend from South Africa; they are discussing poverty, the downtrodden and the oppressed, overblown intellectual banter to elevate the ego and make the evening progress smoothly and divinely. But the night is anything but that, for it is dramatically interrupted by Paul - a young black homosexual flimflammer or Peter Funk man with a penchant for male street hustlers (only when he is happy - his words). He comes into the lives of these two unwitting victims after stabbing and passing himself off as a friend to their children who are at Harvard. And what else does her profess? You guessed it - that he is the son of you-know-who: Academy Award winner Sidney Poitier, the most eminent black actor of his generation, the hero that has been the catalyst for the lives of these socially and politically 'aware' forty-somethings.<br /> Paul charms and bedazzles himself into the lives of those he encounters, using his wit, knowledge, ease and most importantly, his race, more specifically, Sidney Poitier's name. As the play intensifies, Paul promises the Kittredge's and future unsuspecting victims minor roles in the movie version of Cats, for which his 'father' is purportedly directing. The victims salivate over the prospect of being in a Poitier film, and they let their guards down, for their humdrum existence now has that depth and meaning that was missing at the beginning of the play; it has that structure that their kids, their careers, their money and their friends could not provide. It has a purpose. An assumed black actor's son is mugged in Central Park. And the kind Kittredges  help him out. When life is not all that we want it to be, it is easy to have the wool pulled over our eyes. We believe because we want to believe. That is the meat of this play.<br /> This play is complex because of the issues that are addressed; it is not just about race and economics, but it is about the purpose of existance in life. This work evolves and reveals so many layers, layers that are eventually reached, and thus, a truer gift of insight gained. Ironically, in the environment of the wealthy elite and the established intelligentsia, it was a sharpie who made this couple and others similar to them see the gift that life and living really is.	2000-11-03
US	51048130	R2N0LO7W63FJ3P	0553280287	440237609	The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-In-The-Moon Marigolds	Books	5	29	32	N	N	A play of humane, compelling, sincere depth	The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds is a cute, catchy title. But the drama is anything but cute. It is a sensitively written play in a natural uncluttered style; the theme, plot and dialogue are not imbued with self-righteous, long-winded, cliched morality excesses. <br />The play revolves around three characters: 1) Beatrice Hunsdorfer, a bitter and acerbic woman 2) Ruth, her daughter, selfish and at times fractious and 3) Tille, another daughter, bright, responsible, a young girl with a flair for science.<br />The scene: a converted vegeatble store with an upper and lower landing. The room has the usual daily living necessities: couch, table, lamps, chairs, etc.<br />The two daughters have a home environment that would be considered less than homey and family oriented. Being a part of this family would be a real drab, for their is no warmth, compassion, positive human expressiveness, nothing. What replaces these vital family qualities are characteristics on the exact opposite side of the spectrum: bitterness, sarcasm, virulence and regret for past mistakes that have impeded the present condition of living. <br />The two daughters in this play have that glimmer of hope that only youthfulness can bestow. One daughter in particular, Tille, has found her glimmer of hope in science, specifically in her science project of atomic grown flowers: Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds. Atomic energy, an element commonly recognized for its destructiveness, is used in her project to aid in the growth of the flowers. When handled carefully, atomic energy can be used to create beautiful things, thus, bettering lives. <br />The parallel is this: as atomic energy can be harmful, so too can their mother with her permeating aura of negativity, regret and bitterness, how those dark, unwavering emotions can annihilate the bursting positive vitality and idealism that normally encompasses the spirits found in youths.<br />With all the atrocious words and spiteful actions committed by the three characters -- Ruth and Beatrice mostly -- the stark truth from a simple child's science project remains the same: &quot;The Future: After radiation is better understood, a day will come when the power from exploding atoms will change the whole world we know. Some of the mutations will be good ones - wonderful things beyond our dreams....&quot; Thus, with her mother and Ruth's malevolence and cruelities, with better understanding, will rise joy, strength, stability and the fruition of that which earlier was not deemed possible.  <br />This is a play for people of all ages, a play with simple truths, a play about seeing, a guaranteed winner.	2000-10-25
US	51048130	R2PWHORGX8PU52	0060955457	598714605	The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love: A Novel	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A novel of torrid lushness and depth	Despite numerous spelling and grammatical errors in the Perennial Classics edition, The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love is a novel of plucky inventiveness where the &quot;post-modernist, non-linear style&quot; and language lucidly conveys the wants that people -- men especially -- have: the longing for prosperity and achievement, the craving to feel good-looking, comely, the shaking off of a placid guise and to behave wildly, amorously as well as to let the inner appetite of what man wants to contribute to society manifest itself, make it palpable so people in the vacinity mutter to themselves, &quot;I want to do that.&quot; Causing people to feel the pleasure and joy that is in one's mind and heart is the kernel of this book.<br /> In this novel, we are introduced to two Cuban brothers, Cesar and Nestor Castillo, both musicians from Havana. One is outgoing and unreserved while the other is cogitative and solemn. As dreamers and immigrants, they hunger to make it is musicians, for that is where the good times are: women, alcohol, food, dancing and recognition. When they reach that peak, from blue-collar workers by day to saucy musicians by night, is the American dream as fulfilling as it was once thought to be? Or is there something in the essence of spirituality or love that can close the vacuous hole that plagues man's heart? Whatever you, as a reader conclude, there is no denying that the novel is brimming with vibrancy and life. A shimmering hue of ideals, culture and language make this book almost impossible to put down, despite the overlooked errors made by Perennial. Though sometimes graphic in its sexual candor and explicitness, the gratuitousness of the sex is what makes the &quot;true love&quot; theme so vitally important.<br /> To quote The New Yorker review/blurb in the book jacket: &quot;The story is so utterly American that it's a wonder we haven't heard this particular version of it before, and a credit to Mr. Hijuelos that we're hearing it now...&quot; To the Amazon.com reviewer who said that Perennial published the book as though they didn't care and that they should apologize, I concur.	2000-09-28
US	51048130	R1KNM2WJI1GRO8	0374521727	669084721	Slouching Towards Bethlehem: Essays	Books	5	34	40	N	N	Essays of sheer simplicity, intellect, honesty and power!	Slouching Towards Bethlehem is the best book of essays I have ever, by the grace of God, been fortunate enough to own and read. In essay after essay, I found myself saying,\\"Go on, Joan. You said it, Joan. We are the same, you and I, Joan, etc.\\" That is the type of book Slouching Towards Bethlehem is. Reading it, slowly, meticulously, I felt such a close kinship, a bond, not with the writer but with her words -- so carefully chosen and wonderfully articulated. These essays are not meant, honestly, for teenagers, although, if given a chance, the totality of the book would be most beneficial for their pliable and socially indoctrinated minds. <br /> The purport of this book is something that I can so easily identify with: the disappearance of the past for the establishment of a fragmented, roughly organized new society with newfangled, unaccustomed societal perceptions as well as an aggressive casting off of the traditional value system of those who were born and raised a long time before the emergence of the radical, cataclysmic sixties. These essays explore, through author Joan Didion's own feelings and experiences and the feelings and experiences of those she encountered, the disharmononized emotions of the hippy generation vs the elders of the more reactionary periods, periods where: Free Love, Acid Trips, Groovy, Crystal Snorting Gurus and Muumuu Dressed Followers seemed a complex and social oddity in the hierarchy of those who were deemed, \\"Not with it, man.\\" <br /> What is so nice about these essays is that they are not condescending; there were and are thousands upon thousands of citizens and non-citizens alike who had and have no clue whatsoever as to what the counter-culture represented (me, honestly, being one in that vast catagory). Joan Didion thrust herself into its epicenter, and with a keen eye took it all in, trying to understand. The darkness of the counter-culture I think is best represented in the title essay \\"Slouching Towards Bethlehen\\" on page 101:     \\"Pretty little 16-year-old chick comes to the Haight to see what it's all about & gets picked up by a 17-year-old street dealer who spends all day shooting her full of speed again & again, then feeds her 3,000 mikes & raffles off her temporarily unemployed body for the biggest Hight Street gangbang since the night before last. The politics and ethics of ecstasy...\\"    That was the darkness of the counter-culture, but that is not representative of the entirety of it. Didion's family can be traced back all the way to the Donner-Reed tragedy in which cannibalism was the well known result. Thus, California is liked to that sole dark act; it is forever historically and symbolically linked, California becoming tarnished and not the land of \\"Golden opportunity.\\" That is one way of looking at the counter-culture. Or it can be viewed in this fashion, in the essay: \\"Rock of Ages\\" about Alcatraz Island on page 208:<br /> \\"I saw the shower room (in Alcatraz) with the soap still in the dishes. I picked up a yellowed program from an Easter service...and I struck a few notes on an upright piano with the ivory all rotted from the keys and I tried to imagine the prison as it had been, with the big lights playing over the windows all night long and the guards patrolling the gun galleries and the silverware clattering into a bag as it was checked in after meals, tried dutifully to summon up some distaste, some night terror of the doors locking and the boat pulling away. But the fact of it was that I liked it out there, a ruin devoid of human vanities, clean of human illusion, and empty place reclaimed by the weather where a woman plays an organ to stop the wind's whining and an old man plays ball with a dog named Duke...\\" <br /> Maybe that is what the hippy generation was trying to flee from: \\"Human vanities. Human illusions.\\"<br /> Slouching Towards Bethlehem is a book where the search for meaning is in of itself the comprehension of change. And that is what the sixies, like other decades represented, another unusual facet of life.	2000-08-07
US	51048130	R3C2ZBSZ44068F	0399133569	44005053	Private Demons: The Life of Shirley Jackson	Books	4	11	12	N	N	An interesting woven biography of a complex, odd, woman.	Bizarre, frenzied, unyielding, biting, caring, passionate, imaginative. Shirley Jackson was all of these and even more. She was a robust woman with a dominating energy and an unparalleled mind that enraptured those who  admired her and those who loathed her -- those who could not understand her  make-up and or blunt and sometimes subtle eccentricities that made her  churn out astonishing classical works in the genera of supernatural and  reality based horror, i.e. \\"The Lottery,\\" \\"The Haunting of  Hill House,\\" the Edgar Allan Poe award-winning short story  \\"Louisa, Please Come Home,\\" to a mammoth collection of other  stories and novels as well as nonfiction.<br /> \\"The Lottery,\\"  which Jackson is universally recognized for, horrified readers of the prim  but stylish New Yorker, angering many but grimly fascinating them in the  same process, showing the burning evil in all humanity. What was it about?  many wanted to know. In the book, Private Demons: The Life of Shirley  Jackson, Judy Oppenheimer gives brief but startling insights as to why she  wrote it, Jackson later admitting to a friend that it had to do with the  evils of anti-semitism against the Jews, for she saw it seething in the   mental inner-workings of the people she encountered in the North Bennington  community in Vermont where she resided till her death. Her husband, the  noted critic, Stanley Hyman, was a loud, opinionated, womanizing, boozing  atheist who dominted Shirley, but in a way, he gave her the love and  literary encouragement that nobody else could. They were an odd mix, but  their oddities, such as Shirley's interest in witchcraft and casting spells  and Stanley's desire to see people fight while adding unnecessary fuel to  the fire somehow united them; they were two halves of the same circle. What  really made them so right for each other was that they were against convention, the mundane values that their parents tried to imbue in them.  However, Shirley Jackson could not let go of the old values, as they were imbedded in her psyche. Those traits are clearly evident in her two  family-oriented nonfiction books: Life Among the Savages and Raising  Demons. Shirley Jackson's value system clashed together, the new V. the  old. That sole problem alone can have astonishing problematic consequences. Shirley Jackson and the Hyman family (which included four children) were  neither insiders nor outsiders in their community, and that was why there  was always that 'edge' when they were amongst those in the community. <br />  This biography is very pellucid in exploring the duality of Shirley  Jackson, her family, her cohorts, her parents (who had a very large part in  shaping Shirley's outcome as a writer) and her bucolic environment. No  stone is left unturned. The only founded criticism that I can apply as a  reader is the writing of this biography. Some parts read like a tabloid  celebrity biography. It isn't scholarly in the least, but the narritave is  rather gripping. That alone makes it enjoyable and easy to skim through.	2000-07-17
US	51048130	R1WQGVG6G1NTFW	0140431845	222490990	The Story of an African Farm (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	32	N	N	A book so ahead of its years it's astonishing.	When The Story of an African Farm was published in 1883, the title gave no indication to readers what the complex scope of the novel was really about.  <br /> Written by South African governess, Olive Schreiner, the book's  crux ran along the controversal: the oppression of women, feminism, the  existance of God, anti-imperialism, the bizarre transformation of one the  novel's characters (not Lyndall) into a transvestite. It goes on and on.  The novel was written when the belief of agnosticism was in the early  stages of being in 'vogue.' Also interesting, Darwin's Origin of the  Species had been published for some time, and the theory had rooted itself  in many areas of society. <br /> This was not the traditional Victorian  novel that was written in the old English 'bonne bouche' manner on par with  Jane Eyre or Emma. The prose of the novel has a broken up fluidity to it;  it is not grandiloquent; it is in fact, quite brutal, edgy. As Elaine  Showalter writes in the excellent introduction to the Bantam Classic  edition, &quot;Readers expecting the structured plot of a typical  three-volume Victorian novel were startled by the oddity of African Farm,  with its poetic, allegorical, and distinct passages, and its defiance of  narrative and sexual conventions.&quot; With that clearly explained, it is  not a surprise that it shocked old, priggish Englanders with their stiff  upper lips and staunch, conservative manners, nor is it shocking that the  Church of England called the novel &quot;blasphemous.&quot; <br /> African  Farm details the lives of three key characters: Waldo, Em and Lyndall. The  latter character is the one who seems to bring up the key issues that made  the novel controversal. Lyndall is always described as 'little,'  'delicate,' 'like a doll,' 'a flower.' However, she is the one who refuses  to marry (with one minor exception to the rule) until a social equilibrium  is established between men and women. She desires equality between the  sexes, and is willing to suffer for it. And she does, more than what is  expected. Odd as it may seem, but considering the period in which the novel  was written, the character of Lyndall really had to be physically  'feminized' in order to make up for her strongly held convictions of being  a 'total' woman and not 'half' a woman.<br />If any person reads the novel,  the character of Lyndall needs (from my view) special attention, for she  questions the values of men, women who accepted the standard, religion and  the social hierarchy in which she was born. Her questions seem like  cartels, challenges. Why can't she have a job? Why can't she be educated or  independent without the stigma 'weirdo' unflinchingly attached to her? Why  must she be dubbed 'strange?' The reader must always ask why when reading  this book. The three characters, Lyndall especially, endure a lot of  hardship, a hardship that mirrored the very author's life, i.e. her cold  and distant upbringing, the religious retraints placed on her life as well  as the life-clenching grasp that old norms had on women of that period.  African Farm was Olive Schreiner's liberty, her freedom from the societal  choke hold.<br /> In conclusion, the novel is not one of grace and  patrician dogma. It is not a book of nice ladies and gentlemen sitting  under the African sun near exotic, wild flowers sipping tea and   participating in intellectual banter. No, it is an underscored work of  literature where ideas of human aspiration and ecumenical desires are  explored under a blazing sun and burnt, sandy plain.	2000-06-12
US	51048130	R3SFT210SSFF7O	0451524217	645845418	McTeague	Books	5	20	21	N	N	McTeague is literary naturalism in the purist form.	McTeague, the man, is the embodiment of the majority of human civilization. The simplicity and directness of the themes are so free-flowing they are hardly noticible: success, wealth, power, the fear of  losing that which elevates citizens to one of the three social classes: 1)  Wealth 2) Middle-class 3) Poverty. The characters in the novel: McTeague,  Trina, Marcus, Zerkow, etc., are all simple-minded individuals longing for  something that is universal in life: success and comfort. But what happens  when that goal, that climax, is never achieved, almost achieved but never  fully there or worse yet, achieved but then brutally snatched away? That is  what happenes to McTeague, a dentist, who can no longer practice his craft  because he holds no dental degree. What happens when that comfort zone,  that stability, is yanked away and gnawed into pieces so miniscule it can't  be reconstructed to its original form? Can he rise from his adversity or  will he, like many before him and many after him, fall into the pits of  criminal behavior and social depravity? As is always unfortunately the  case, the latter is almost always what comes into fruition. There is a  force in the novel that brings the characters quietly together. The dark  happenings that they incur as a result of their narrow-minded longings  almost makes what happens to them inevitable. The writing itself is lucid  and relaxed, which is a real accomplishment considering the horror he puts  his characters through. The scenes of San Francisco, the desert and the  village-oriented type feel of Polk Street where the beginning action takes  place are wonderfully described, not laborious as compared to the old and  tragic English novels of the 19th Century and onward. For any literate  individual interested in how greed can destroy a life, McTeague is the book  for you.	2000-05-12
US	51048130	R3MMQQVVCICYR9	0060953020	198870493	Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A book dazzling with prose and mind-shattering knowledge!	&quot;Cruelty is a mystery, and the waste of pain&quot; (p.7). That is just one wonderful quote out of many that make up the bulk of Annie Dillard's Pulitzer winning Pilgrim at Tinker Creek. The book's themes are a  combination, an amalgam, of natuure, science, philosophy, theology and  mysticism. What is God's relationship to man? What is man's relationship to  God? Although there are a lot of Christian elements imbued in (PTC),  Dillard has a mystical view of life and creation as well -- a direct,  unmeditated experience of the presence of God. In (PTC), nature, more often  than not, is the stimulus that inspires the mystical union. The book has a  permeating aura of panentheism to it, meaning, the natural world is  contained within God but sees God extending beyond the natural world. God  is both immanent and transcendent, both within the natural world and beyond  it. Dillard uses the natural world, the insects, the minute organisms and  animals of Tinker Creek and Tinker Mountain to try to answer a far greater  question regarding humanity: how does the creation and destruction in the  natural world relate to the human world? What is God's role in that? The  themes are so complex but yet startlingly simple.God is the Creator of both  horror and beauty. It is in both the former and latter where the human  understanding comes to play; it is where the 'lesson' lies, if you will.  (PTC) is a book that needs to be read more than once in order to fully  comprehend it. The reader has to wait and digest what is being offered, as  in (p. 258): &quot;It is merely the slow cessation of the will's sprints  and the intellect's chatter: it is waiting like a hollow bell with stilled  tongue. Fuge, tace, quiesce. The waiting itself is the thing. That is so  true about almost everything in life.	2000-03-21
US	51048130	RP3NY7GMHT7BI	0374521719	20444963	Play It As It Lays: A Novel	Books	5	94	102	N	N	A fantstic novel about a dark, sepulchral, unsettling life.	What would life be like if it was meaningless, if the people we associated with were plastic? not real? pretentious? What if our life was just a  hopeless void with loose morals, drugs, hollow sayings and beliefs? What if  we just played the empty game of life as it was laid down for us? That is  the main theme in Joan Didion's classic book that takes the reader into the  life of Maria Wyeth, actress, mother, daughter, divorced wife, a woman who  has grown tired and desensitized to the fakeness and pain caused by the  Hollywood and Las Vegas establishment.It is a life filled to the brim with  movie premiers, booze, pills, suicide, casual, empty sex, abortions and  nothing else. It is a world of plastic surgery and beautiful people, of  Let's do lunch and venomous gossip. The sneering, caustic tone of Didion's  voice would want to make anybody who lived the lives of the novel's  characters put a gun to their head and end it all. The language is  stinging, fast-paced, lean, anti-Hollywood. Pure Didion!	2000-02-22
US	51048130	R33NLFU1AO1D8G	0312195052	30978773	Madam Secretary: A Biography of Madeleine Albright	Books	1	10	16	N	N	A biographical catastrophe with no intellectual merit!	The fact that this book even got published makes my head smart with incredulity; there is no political objectivity or critical analysis to be found anywhere on the printed pages nor is there any scholarly, in-depth  research on the life of our country's first woman Secretary of State. In  the author's eyes, if one can call him that, Madeline Albright is the  goddess of the State Department, and that's that. This book is astounding  in that it is so  terrible; it is nothing but shoddy work -- a meandering  diatribe that resembles a poorly written fifth grade book report. To say  more would be a waste of space and time...	2000-02-16
US	51048130	R3ISDHYX17PRS5	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	5	93	101	N	N	Breathtaking in its simplicity and scope! A marvel!	Alan Lightman's Einstein's Dreams is essentially a book on physics that is explained through literary technique: the novel. Each chapter is a new date in time that explains vast possibilities of what time is and could be. Time  is past, present and future. What if people lived only in the past and  never had to deal with the future or those who lived in the future and  never had to worry about the past? Or those who just lived in the present  and never heard of a past or future? Lightman explores what each one means  on an individual basis and how it could affect humanity if only one existed  and not the others. The reader will discover the awe of what Einstein knew  when he himself came to these revelations -- perhaps a little less grand in  scale. Past, present and future are all interconnected; they can't be  mitigated in terms of 'more important' vs. 'less important.' That simply  does not exist in Einstein's Dreams, literally. The author looks at each  individual case in every chapter and shows the beauty of living a life only  in the past or present or future. But he also shows the unpleasantness of  it. Thus, he makes the reader appreciate the actuality of physics and how  it functions in everyday life. The scenes of where all this theory  manifests itself is a little European village near the Alps, the River Aare  and the  Marktgasse (street) nearby where Einstein has his office. The  European and descriptive flavor that is added to the simple and uncluttered  language makes the story more quaint, insular and easy to grasp. At the  close, the book becomes a wonderful, soaring learning and reading  experience.	2000-02-14
US	51048130	R389C4MO4LQTR2	0679751831	52561466	Salvador	Books	5	9	17	N	N	Powerful, taut reportage of an excellent caliber!	Joan Didion's book is a reedy, powerful work of nonfiction that explores El Salvador's horrific civil war and the American government's dark involvement with helping certain individuals &quot;to disappear.&quot; In this work, Didion travels from &quot;battlefields to body dumps&quot; to  uncover what many in the political regime do not want covered. With gun  shots echoing in the night, frightened citizens keeping quiet and the fear  of imminent bloodshed on the minds of many, Salvador is a classic, true  tale of political intrigue, violence and secrecy that is equil to the works  of Thomas Hauser's Missing and Ryszard Kapuscinski's Shah of Shahs and The  Soccar War(s). Joan Didion is a journalist and author who truly gets into  'the bush' of the matter.	2000-02-04
US	51048130	R1YQI2Y7DRYFZL	0345314271	865312112	Bible and Sword: England and Palestine from the Bronze Age to Balfour	Books	5	26	28	N	N	History and scholarship of the highest order	Barbara Tuchman's first work of history, Bible and Sword: England and Palestine from the Bronze Age To Balfour, is vast in historical, religious, diplomatic and political scholarship. From the early times of the Beaker people and Caliphates to the first crusades and pilgrimages, all the way down to the creation of the Jewish homeland by the aristocratic and willowy former British Prime Minister Authur James Balfour and the Balfour Declaration of 1917 as well as the often overlooked Palestine Mandate, nothing is left out in describing how Israel came into being and England's often historically forgotten role in its conception. Of the two, the latter was actually the one &quot;that gave a footing in public law to the restoration of Israel in Palestine&quot; whereas the Balfour Declaration of 1917 &quot;was simply a statement of policy that any subsequent government could have ignored&quot;. The Palestine Mandate was a global promise confirmed by Wilson's League of Nations and thus elevated the Balfour Declaration, which was absorbed with the mandate, to treaty status. Religiously speaking, the British wanted Israel settled so Christiendom would not only be the predominate faith above all the others, but so that Christ's appearance would not accelerate at unbelievable, astronomical speeds. Politically speaking, real bizarre! The criticism of this book is founded. The language is rather dry and antiquated. And there are minute biased overtones of the Christian faith. But the scholarship and information that is provided outweighs the negative tinctures in this book. It gives a broad understanding to a narrow subject.	2000-02-02
US	51048130	R217FTR32WR3TO	0140254587	694403107	Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake-Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Religiously hypnotic look into the world of snake handling.	Salvation on Sand Mountain was a book that truly awed me to feel things that I never felt before when it came to faith and being closer with the Spirit. Covington's book will take readers to parts of Southern Appalachia  that is so little understood and appreciated, the world of the snake  handling, strychchnine drinking, tongue rattling Southerner who has carried  this exotic tradition from generation down to generation. The intense faith  and passion which these people believe and handle their serpants, is, in a  crazy way, admirable and moving. Covington really does have an ear for the  core message of what these handlers want to convey: handling snakes  (however deadly some of them might be) is to be closer to God. The author  writes with a compassionate, freakish warmth, a sacred reverence not just  for the people involved but for an act that nobody would fathom themselves  participating in. The prose is lush and stimulating and will draw many  readers -- however sarcastic or doubtful they may be -- into this unique  fire and brimstone subculture before they can sum an opinion of the people  who handle snakes in the name of God. Salvation on Sand Mountain is indeed  a book that has some of the best writing about the South.	2000-01-25
US	51048130	R1R4XIO3PI6763	0060806982	2759931	Profiles in Courage (Memorial Edition)	Books	5	42	49	N	N	Great profiles that present character of a forgotten age.	Joh F. Kennedy's Pulitzer Prize winning Profiles In Courage is not an in-depth historical text, true, and it should not be read that way. If any reader was and is expecting to find fascinating, long biographies of the  eight men in this book, then they should alter their expectations. Rather,  readers should use these profiles as a precursor to major biographies that  are fatter and thicker with more detail.Whether Kennedy or his speechwriter  wrote this book is irrevelent to me, but what he  did when he wrote this  book was to narrow it down to a very slim margin of what courage is. What  is it? How do people -- especially people in politics -- get courage? What  circumstance or circumstances in their lives imbued that very important  characteristic into their belief system when serving the public at large?  What Kennedy does is explore those key moments in the lives of these men  that could have been responsible for the attainment of that trait.  Kennedy's style of writing is gripping, immediate and has colorful tints of  personality to it. For a quick and accurate historical/biographical fix,  Profiles in Couage does the job quite nicely.	2000-01-25
US	51048130	RDXXDY43QW1I9	0451170512	40578846	The Saudis	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Informative and intriguing look into Saudi Arabian life.	This is a good introductary or pulp nonfiction book, if such a thing exists. It would be a typical best-seller. What this book does, however, is introduce readers and help them to understand the complexities of Saudi  Arabian politics, economics and society at large. Sandra Mackey gives fine  minute details of how women are treated, the norms of culture and  traditions and the country's most powerful and lucrative export: oil. In  terms of global economy -- especially for the United States -- a lot of  power is tied to the actions of the Saudi government. The book explains  very successfully the purpose of the Arabian-American Oil Company (ARAMCO),  the Committee for the Protection of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice, the  Arabian's love of power and materialism, the lifestyle of the Bedouins, the  Hajj, all the way through to the purpose (socially) to the assumed sexually  active Hareems. The book is packed with useful information for anyone with  a novice interest in the Middle East and Saudia Arabia specifically.The  author also gives a very explict and colorful portrait of the Saudi's love  of camel racing. The Saudis is a good source book. However, some of  the  provided information ia a little out of date.It is still a good, insightful  read. I would recommend Sandra Mackey's other books: The Iranians and  Lebanon: Death of a Nation.	2000-01-25
US	51048130	R5869K8EOAIQG	0679741828	551836579	Anne Sexton: A Biography	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A well rounded biography of a great confessional poet.	Diane Wood Middlebrook's biography of Anne Sexton was balanced and insightful enough so as not to be too intrusive; it is simple and direct, as I believe this biography ought to be. It could be much more. True. But  that would somehow seem indecent. It is a written work that will tantalize  many readers to want to know more of Sexton's earlier life and later  chaotic often disgusting behavior. Anne Sexton did indeed have some major  psychological problems. She envied Sylvia Plath's suicide and inflicted  mental abuse on her family that trangressed the boundries of chaotic. She  has often been criticized for the themes that she used in her poetry: her  mental breakdowns, her severe shortcomings as a wife and mother, her  liberal use of female bodily sexuality, her 'womanism' and other scattered  amorphous problems that she endured but that is not fully covered with very  much depth in this work. To deny Sexton's mentle problems or attribute her  abhorrent behavior to simple staments that she 'wanted attention' is to  cast away the deamons that led her to commit suicide in the first place or  write the highly noted poems &quot;The Operation&quot; in All My Pretty  Ones, for which she garnered a National Book Award nomination or  &quot;Mother And Jack And The Rain&quot; or &quot;Menstruation At  Forty&quot; in Live or Die, for which she won the 1967 Pulitzer Prize for  Poetry. This biography has also been condemmed for the use of private  conversations that Sexton had with her psychiatrist, Dr. Martin Orne, a  fact that had and still does many in the profession gravely unhappy. In the  forward and book jacket to The Complete Poems of Anne Sexton by her friend  and fellow poet, Maxine Kumin, she states: &quot;The stuff of Anne's life,  mercilessly dissected, is here in the poems. Of all the confessional poets,  none has had quite Sexton's 'courage to make a clean breast of it' ...Anne  Sexton has earned her place in the cannon.&quot; Whatever her morals (or  lack of them) or major priorities which always came second, she was one  hell of a fantastic, little understood poet who truly added something  unique to the genre.	2000-01-21
US	51048130	R355WMRX23DFY5	0345339029	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt	Books	5	97	102	N	N	As Theodore Roosevelt would have said it: &quot;Dee-lightful!&quot;	This is a supurb researched biography of one of the most colorful, revered presidents of the 20th century. For anyone who has unfortunately grown cynical and tired of the political and social cliched diatribe of today's  political figures and political system, The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt will  change all that and bring forth a new appreciation for what man and woman  can achieve in government when they have conviction, determination and  plain old guts. What makes this book so appealing is that it focuses not on  TR's presidency, but rather it explores TR's youth, family upbringing and  hobbies as well as his formative years with the famed Rough Riders... It  also delves into the tragedies that he incurred on his path to presidential  greatness, i.e. the death of his first wife and mother on the same day of  two different causes. Morris does a splendid job detailing TR's time with  Tammany Hall and Harvard, his joy of writing  and literature as well as  athletics. The language that Mr. Morris uses is immediate, personal and  inviting, giving off a permeating aura that TR is looming over the reader's  shoulder. Whenever I have failed with something and don't believe that I  can rise from it, I think of TR and say to myself: &quot;If TR can do it,  so can I.&quot;	2000-01-19
US	51048130	R2NE290P91D955	1556520735	980026737	They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby	Books	5	331	380	N	N	A stark revelation about who wields the true power in D.C.	Paul Findley has written one incredible, eye-opening book that calls into question the high pressure, unethical, slander tactics used against academics, religious figures, journalists and political figures who speak  out against the American Israel Public Affairs Committee's  overzealous  involvement and desirous control of economic and military diplomacy as well  as education. This is a group that nobody wants to mess around with. The  power hungry citizens and 'big wigs' in this lobby have a disturbing amount  of clout that really makes you look at government differently. To stand up  and speak out against Israel's lobby and their very questionable dealings  in national and foreign affairs is essentially to put a  career/social/economic death mark on your forehead. The shady dealings that  this group instigates and leads, whether it be on a large or small scale,  undermines the ethics and principles for which this country and the Jewish  faith stand for. This book is an education in itself. Although disturbing,  because it makes the Constitution seem like a useless piece of paper with  'silly' writing on it, Findley's book is very benefical if you want to know  how a facet of foreign and national policy operates.	2000-01-05
US	51048130	R33R9M7QDDYD14	0679758909	421298531	Covering Islam: How the Media and the Experts Determine How We See the Rest of the World	Books	5	51	60	N	N	A useful book for the obtainment of objectivity in the media	Prof. Said's book is one that gets through the marrow of hackneyed, obtuse, sterotypical untruths  that the media unfortunatelly often places on individuals of Arab decent. His work delves deeply into how  pseudo-intellectual Hollywood and the'yellow' media often brand (most of  the time) people of Middle East culture as the 'bad guy' or the one who  'must have planted the bomb,' etc... Covering Islam is a great book, not  just in its clear-cut shining examples of how people often unconsciencely  discriminate, but also in its well researched scholarship. Mr. Said  explains and points out the subtleties of what is being taught in schools  today, what is on the radio, television and movie screens. His fluid  writing style and insights, I believe, will help people to become less  subservient to the ideas and opinions expressed by the 'still-learning'  media.	2000-01-05
US	51048130	R2YUFRWHLXTTD4	0679743340	953919549	Winter's Tales	Books	5	51	57	N	N	Winter's Tales is refined prose and wisdom of a lost age.	Isak Diensen's book of ornate, Baroque prose is on an unreachable echelon separate from any writer writing literature today or even from her era. Her stories transport readers to a period where thinking and intelligence were  elegant and refined, smooth and intermixed with tints of religiosity.  Stories such as &quot;The Invincible Slave-Owner&quot; and &quot;The  Sailor-Boy's Tale&quot; show Diensen's strong knowledge of Danish folklore  and Baroque description. Mind you, this is not easy reading! The messages  are simple, but yet they are dense, and it is very easy to overlook these  simple truths as a result of that flamboyance and extravagant complexity  for which she has become internationally recognized. Her themes are like  those of any writer: strength, courage during adversity, love, etc... But  it is how these themes are conveyed that make these tales remarkable. Isak  Diensen a.k.a. Baroness Karen Blixen's childhood was not one of the best,  and these tales seem to indicate that. They transport the reader, take him  or her away to places that seem unreachable, but her life does not mitigate  the beautiful intelligence and language that she is able to convey. Diensen  was twice nominated for the Noble Prize in Literature, losing to Ernest  Hemmingway and Albert Camus. For more on her life and stories, read Judith  Thurman's Life of a Storyteller: The Biography of Isak Diensen.	1999-12-27
US	51048130	R3RFP1K98NUO53	0374508046	199069782	Mystery and Manners: Occasional Prose (FSG Classics)	Books	5	113	118	N	N	A great book that helps writers to focus on their craft!	For anyone wanting to understand the theory and importance of writing, whether it be fiction or nonfiction, get this book. Flannery O' Connor delves deeply into the mystery of writing, why people do it, struggle over  it, sacrifice so much of themselves in order to do it, to a slew of other  fantastic bits of information and reasons. Mystery and Manners has narrowed  my own overly broad understanding of why I write. It has helped me to  focus, not on just the many types of writing, but also on the type of books  that I read and should read in order to be a fully developed writer. O'  Connor discuses a lot on voice and plot and theme; her views are so clear  and exact. Any professional or novice writer will really appreciate her  collection of essays. More than anything, writers will appreciate O'  Connor's affirmation of their own views. They too will appreciate her  understanding of the difficulty and importance of why people write. I can  not praise this book enough.	1999-12-20
US	51048130	R1QERRN0WWP3CD	0571198775	749122786	Wit: A Play	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A dazzling play that puts everything into perspective!	If there ever was a play that deserved to win the Pulitzer Prize, this is the one. In this play, we are introduced to Dr. Vivian Bearing, Ph.D, John  Donne expert. When she is diagnosed with metastatic ovarian cancer, she  probes and studies how she has lived her life. Was it worth it? Was there  something that could have been improved upon? Her assessment reveals a  truer, greater picture of how all humanity should live life. Edson's use of  medical vocabulary and knowledge woven with John Donne's poetry, as well as  personal introspection, make this play all the more credible and  emotionally satisifying.	1999-10-26
US	51048130	R3MDWXW7CGMSQM	0374521387	593959286	'night, Mother: A Play (Mermaid Dramabook)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Swift, taut, chilling play of family, suicide, helplessness.	Night, Mother is a sharp, terse play that examines the issue of hopelessness in all areas and facets of life. What is hopelessness, and how  does it come about? This play looks at one aspect of suicide and its  eventual cause: the loss of one's self, one's identity. The dialogues  between Mother and Jessie are intense, but yet there is a separateness, a  barrier that can not be broken between the two. They are united together by  their relation, but it ends there. The mother/daughter relationship in this  play is quite believeable -- albeit sad and unfortunate. Night, Mother is a  dark, chilling play that leaves a pondering imprint on your mind long after  the last page has been read.	1999-10-25
US	51048130	R29H5N945LOSLU	0345390547	181492982	Den of Lions	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A heart pummeling hostage memoir of the Beirut crisis.	Terry Anderson's Den of Lions is a den of insights into the radical bi-polar terrorist mentality in which he was trapped for over seven years. His descriptions of the bombings, shootings and random daily violence that  permeated around the non-citizens and the citizens of Lebanon, make this a  classic Middle East hostage survivor's story. Anderson's poems of his cruel  incarceration are filled with searing depth that transport you to the  various scummy basement cells which he shared with other Westerners. Den of  Lions and Hostage by David Jacobson go hand in hand and are important  contributions in the collection of Middle East books that help those of us  citizens who were not there or too young to remember, the horror that  Beirut was during the eighties and early ninties. Very highly recommended!	1999-10-21
US	51048130	R3TJNKF1B3UKT8	0140051996	512449782	The Sea, the Sea	Books	5	26	31	N	N	A grand edifice of writing worthy of the Booker Prize!	This is my first Iris Murdoch novel, and it will not be my last. The theme, plot and characterzation of lost love, revenge and strength through suffering was something I could identify with. There is an almost ethereal  quality to Murdoch's writing. Her characters: Charles, James, Titus,  Lizzie, Rosina, Hartley, etc.. are colorful, but yet they are ghostly,  wraithlike. You can't have a physical grasp on them; they will not allow  it. The only thing that Murdoch allows you is to share in her character's  experiences, their longings and dreams. This book makes you look hard at  the character's ethics and fashions in which they choose to live their  lives. It makes you ask: &quot;Is what happens to these characters  deserving?&quot; This book is rich in description, introspective, wise and  has a solitary element of aloneness as well as   fantastic English prose  that make it a standard bearer (my opinion) to which other present-day  novels are judged.	1999-10-18
US	51048130	R1FTIIQRRZ51CB	014118020X	925264468	Gunnar's Daughter (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Fast-paced tale with wonderful Scandinavian folklore...	Sigrid Undset's Gunnar's Daughter weaves Scandinavian folklore, mythology and violence to ensnare the reader into the period of the Saga Age. In this book, we meet Vigdis Gunnarsdatter -- a survivor in many different levels  who is raped and delivers an illegitimate child. As it is said that time  heals old wounds, that is not the case with Vigdis. Even with her eventual  redemption, peace of mind still eludes her until she takes her very last  breath. The scope of history and folklore in Gunnar's Daughter makes this  an interesting and quick read. However, it is highly recommended that the  reader marks the introduction and notes by Sherrill Harbison -- as they  provide much information that makes the book more insightful and  pleasurable to read.	1999-08-10
US	51048130	R13P4RQ63XWWQ2	0374505241	113731400	The Violent Bear It Away: A Novel	Books	5	3	8	N	N	A dark book that shines through with the light of wisdom.	I can agree with almost any reader who disliked this work. I can understand why people would not like it; this is a terrible book, but it is a wonderfully terribly book. It is in the terribleness where the lesson lies. The fact that Francis Tarwater acts out on both sides of the extreme to release himself from the religious plague that has netted itself around him is in itself the horror of this whole book. A life of extremes in whatever it is that people do, whether it be in thoughts or actions, can only lead to a form of destruction. Religion and humanistic rationalism are each wonderful things, but only if they are on an equilibrium -- a balanced scale. Tarwater is in the middle, not knowing what side to lean towards, when in actuality he should not have moved towards either. The indecision, doubt and confusion of what Tarwater goes through is horrible, but the lesson we, as readers get from his experience and decisions, make us better for seeing what O'Connor chooses to do with him.We need to see the grotesque blackness in this novel, because it is for our own betterment and salvation. The characters are stark, bold. It is absolutely impossible to symapthize or identify or connect with them. Who would want to?	1999-08-10
US	51048130	R241O7RAF3PSVY	0060929863	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A poetic philosophy blade to the heart!	I have not read much philosophy in life, but what I haven't studied or marked, is made up for in The Bridge of San Luis Rey. Like many readers, I was more acquainted with Thorton Wilder's plays, i.e. The Matchmaker and  Our Town, etc... This novel is equally good as his plays. The core question  that the book asks is why? Why did the bridge collapse with the specific  five people on it? Were their lives conducted in a fashion that warrented  death? Or, was death a blessing? Were these five people being rewarded and  their souls/spirits being elevated to a godly netherworld? There are so  many questions that can be posed as a result of this remarkable  novel/novella.It is true that the prose is difficult to read, but if the  reader takes his/her time, it is a book that is definately worth reading  and rereading.	1999-08-10
US	51048130	RBZY7O1TAM06S	0553213768	591439555	The Phantom of the Opera (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	An absorbing, haunting love story that was not meant to be.	What I enjoyed most about this book was the simplicity of language and the direct truth of human needs. Erik was physically deformed and sickly. Mostly, he was unloved and cast out from society; he was bigger than just  the Opera Ghost. He was society's shame -- a shame they felt that should be  hidden and not acknowledged (either out of fear or because of it... you  choose). That lack of positive acknowledgement is what makes this book so  sad and frustrating. He had love to give, but it was not wanted; he was  deemed a creature of horror. But it was really the general attitude of  society that was the horror -- not him. The book really echoes the truth  that it is what is on the inside that matters, for that is what lasts the  longest, and that people should be more open-minded to the mental and  physical flaws that either God or Nature or both created. Erik is a symbol  not of darkness and the gothic motif, but of light and life and living. If  anyone liked this book, they should read Susan Kay's Phantom; it is a good  precursor to Leroux's The Phantom of the Opera.	1999-08-10
US	51048130	R3JCDKEEULR2LE	0374505845	987266683	Wise Blood: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A dark, slap-in-the-face tragacomedy of man against God!	O'Connor's use of man's struggle with religion is strange in an etheral/religious way, but at the same time, it is universal; it's message, whether we choose to accept it or not, applies to all of humanity.  Regardless if we are old or young or of middle age, we have at one point  questioned God, embraced God or pushed that life force away. And that is  what her stories and novels represent: salvation through something that is  greater than ourselves. That greatness is either our inner spirit, the  earth's spirit or something beyond our realm. But salvation for a singular  belief often comes at a cost: death, etc.. That is the essence of Wise  Blood, where we are introduced to Hazel Motes of Eastrod, TNN who founds  The Church Without Christ.Hazel is different (religiously speaking) in that  he chooses to live his life not according to the norms of society. When he  finds that he has followers to his church, he discards them, does not  appreciate them. When one founds a church or an organization, the sole  purpose should be is to get followers. But that is not the case with Hazel  Motes. He wants to be separate from humanity. Period! He will go to many  extremes to live his life the way he sees fit. Flannery O' Connor's work  goes beyond religion. She merely uses it as a catalyst for the expression  of other ideas. It is for that sole reason that her work will stick out in  American literature.	1999-08-04
US	51048130	R3SXWFK67RB899	0679720766	368234708	A Fan's Notes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A brutally honest book imbued with in-your-face humor.	Fredrick Exley's A Fan's Notes is the ordinary jo's book; it is a man's blunt search for the meaning of life. For him, it is not marriage, children, the perfect house and such. It is fame and glory on an  unthinkable level. When that level is unattainable, the reality of  ordinariness sets in, an ordinariness that is only assuaged by alcohol,  shock treatment, sex, dreaming, verbal vulgarity and sports -- the latter  Exley knows very much about. The trials and tribulations  that make up  Exley's life, and his struggle to comprehend them, makes A Fan's Notes  wonderful, compelling and enjoyable reading!	1999-08-03
US	51048130	R2QWP1UJ22NMFT	0060919884	427033152	The Writing Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sit back. Relax. Enjoy The Writing Life!	Annie Dillard's The Writing Life, for me, was like having a relaxing conversation with a friend about the pains and joys of writing. I identified with every sentence -- from starting over again on a writing project, to disliking the beginning of a work but loving the middle, to growing in this craft, etc... It is an addiction, and addictions are not easy to explain, so I understand the negative reviews of this book as well. Writing is an unexplainable yet enjoyable frustration. Annie Dillard's metaphores trying to explain the positive and negative aspects of writing -- from painting, to reeling in a log and fighting the forces of nature, to flying -- they are clear-cut, percise views of what writing is all about. This book is great for writers who just enjoy what writng is: annoying, aggrevating, frustrating, soul-searching, creative, self-understanding fun. Read this book. Relax. Enjoy The Writing Life.	1999-06-14
US	51048130	R3SQ4T8C38E2KE	0891901523	68395028	In This Our Life	Books	5	53	54	N	N	A colorful, stark book on the changing of the social tides.	&quot;Your creeds are dead, your rites are dead,/ Your social order too!/ Where tarries he, the Power who said:/ See, I make all things new?&quot;  As the lines indicate from the beginning of Ellen Glasgow's, In This Our  Life, this is the core theme that is throughout the whole book: New order  vs. Old order. It takes place during the forties with a family named  Timberlake. There is Asa, Lavinia, Roy and Stanley (both daughters). Both  daughters are married or soon will be, but the younger sister, Stanley,  runs away with Roy's husband and vice versa. After that, tragedies begin to  pile up. The daughters refuse to listen to their father's wise old order  advice and knowledge. They feel their more modern, new order view is better  -- 'with it'. The book is really about the fabric of what keeps a family  united: love, tradition, character, values, patience, etc... However, what  happens when there is a split of opinion of what keeps a family together?  Will that family survive? Ellen Glasgow does a wonderful job at making  readers see the changing of social values as technology became and  continues to be more powerful and the youth more determined to get that  'quick gratification' or 'instant fix'. Though published in 1941 and later  awarded the 1942 Pulitzer Prize for literature, this book could have a lot  to say even in today's times. The youth of America could get some profound  wisdom out of this book. It deserves more acclaim then it has received!	1999-06-11
US	51048130	RSYB3UW2HCKII	0451165594	511712066	The I-5 Killer, Revised Edition	Books	5	25	28	N	N	The I-5 Killer is riviting true crime at its best!	I have read two previous books by Ann Rule when she wrote underthe pen name of Andy Stack: Lust Killer and the Want-Ad Killer. Thisbook, The I-5 Killer, I think, is the worst in the Andy Stack Trilogy. The crimes of Randall Woodfield are so horrific and sickening that I felt my stomach churn with disbelief and anger. His crimes were not just relegated to women, but to children as well...Any woman or women who looked as though they would be free targets for his sexually warped, frenzied, psychotic mind would be the target of Randall Brent Woodfield -- the I-5 Killer. My summation does not do the horror in this book justice -- as it gets extremely worse and bizarre....Ann Rule is a tremendously talented writer and deserves every honor and Edgar Allen Poe Award for this difficult genre.	1999-06-01
US	51048130	R1WT1VNI1LY19T	0807120316	189167591	The Keepers of the House (Voices of the South)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This was a richly textured book in prose, theme and plot!!	This book was really really nice! I think going overboard with flattery and complements would not do this book justice. There are so many books out there on race, but they seem so blah, blah, blah is a good way to put it.  Keepers of the House has a no-holds-bar cutting truth in the end that I  like -- that unknown, unbearable truth that I have  not seen in other books  which try to tackle the subject of race, politics and interracial marriage.  This book and Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird really do go hand in hand.  Bravo Shirley!	1999-04-21
US	51048130	RWFPXERKQQKO0	0963416308	15419164	Votescam: The Stealing of America	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Fascinating! Disturbing! A very very important book!	I read the book approximately four or five years ago; the book was given to me from a friend who knew a lot about vote fraud and The League of Women Voters. The book upset me so much I had to include it in my other college  readings at the time. I could not put it down. My memory isn't that great  about the specific details, but I do recall incidents that involved Claude  Pepper, Dade County, Janet Reno greatly upsetting some lawyer who was going  to represent the two brothers, the League of Women Voters on a video tape,  shown, I believe if I am correct, on the 700 Club punching holes in voting  cards to make the votes invalid and other unbelievable, unconstitutional  acts that would shock the citizenary to the core of their structured,  Americanized belief system.Upon finishing it, I xeroxed a petition that was  at the back of the book and mailed it in to the President expressing my  deep concern regarding this horrible matter. The Colliers should start a  newspaper or write a series for a newsaper to make this national disgrace  known. They would definately win the Pulitzer Prize for public service!	1999-04-16
US	51048130	R1F4AMGMT97XOR	0452275008	106255605	Zombie	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is the sickest, most disturbing Oates book up to date.	Based partly from the horrific case of Jeffery Dahmer, Zombie is a head shaking horror novel that makes the reader say to him/herself, &quot;Oh, my God!&quot; What makes this fiction the most horrible and fascinating  fiction, is that it is reality based fiction, and that, if it is written  with all its truthful horror, is the worst kind there is. This subject  matter is a perfect additition to the Oates canon. It is a horror story  right out of our national headlines that is written with such detached   simplicity, that that in itself is questionable. Highly recommended!	1999-03-03
US	51048130	R2ERW6B26MVXYN	0452279712	626334891	Invisible Writer: A Biography of Joyce Carol Oates	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Informative. Well researched.  Simple	This biography by Greg Johnson is good. I don't know if something more detailed can or has been written about J.C.O., because I have never come across any other biographies which to compare it with; it is informative,  but it is simplistic. I read past reviews where readers felt that J.C.O.  was looming over the author's shoulder telling him what and how to write. I  agree with that observation, because there is a tone or quality of  restraint that I felt upon reading it out loud. As J.C.O. fans, I think we  were expecting something more -- something that goes beyond the dark  fiction that has made her such a unique literary figure. I think we were  expecting her to literally have lived the lives of the characters that she  has created. But she is not Hemmingwaylike or Iask Diensonlike in that she  writes in a fictionalized autobiographical way, as these two did. I believe  she uses some personal experiences -- as most writers do, but she is firmly  grounded in the turmoil of our country. She hasn't lived the lives of her  characters in the truest sense of the word, but she writes about the  possibilities of the lives she could have lived. Hemmingway wrote about   soldiers and fishermen, etc..., because he was all of them. Isak Dienson  was an aristocrat and a farm owner. She wrote about that and beyond. J.C.O.  has led an academic life, and in her free time, has thought and thought and  thought about socioeconomic conditions that shape human actions and  behavior. I don't feel that she is a writer who writes from experience, but  a writer who writes through the attainment of knowledge from books and the  people around her. I think it is a very honest biography -- true to the  work ethic that has made J.C.O. one of my all time favorite writers. To  reiterate, this is not an exciting biography -- quite bland, really. But it  sheds some light on the Oates mystique.	1999-02-11
US	51048130	R143SOLI5OHM98	0865531617	581844001	One American Must Die: A Hostage's Personal Account of the Hijacking of Flight 847	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A terrifying hijacking story written with dramatic depth	Terrorism has fascinated me ever since I have been able to understand its complexities. I highly recommend Kurt Carlson's book, as he explains with vivid candor the courage of the crew, especially Uli Derickson, his terror  at being brutally beaten and the anger of the Lebenese terrorists who  hijacked Flight 847. It is a book that will transport you to that Boeing  727 on June 14th -- a searing memoir that will take you back to when  airline terrorism was at its climax.	1999-01-28
US	51048130	RS2H6Q8YW85XK	0385487452	332519391	Halfway Heaven	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Darkly honest in its sensitive subject matter	I finished this book in two days and was not angered by the use of private journals; the author exposes readers to hard-to-bear truths that we are afraid to comfront. Harvard has its problem areas. And it is good to be  made aware of that. I think the two young women were described fairly and  not &quot;used&quot; as some readers have suggested. If this was such a  &quot;tabloid&quot; and &quot;uncompassionate&quot; book as people  proclaim, why did they even bother to finish it in the first place? We are  so high on our morals that we forget to comprehend that the book was  written to help us understand rather than make us think differently or  negatively of the victim and murderer. A perceptive and enlightening book.	1999-01-19
US	51048130	R2PIAGHDMNQ9VI	0880014571	102221034	First Love	Books	5	7	7	N	N	First Love is a searing book that brings abuse to light.	In this novella, JCO, has added yet another masterpiece to her already voluminous collection. In a blue/middle collar environment, innocence is lost by a man who, in the future, would become a man of the cloth. It is a story that mirrors so much of what is visible in the news today of people who think that they are above the law. JCO shows the irony of the molester who is studying to be holy and virtuous in the eyes of God, but acts and committs in the name of unthinkable, selfish evil, which seems representative of much of humanity. A gritty, raw painfully truthful book!	1998-06-04
US	51048130	R670YBYW686NY	0865380694	712167029	Expensive People	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Expensive People is hauntingly dark in its realism and truth	JCO, one of this country's most prolific writers, has written a book that takes what we read in the newspapers and see on the news, into the depths of the mind of how a possible child killer may think, and why he/she would act out the violent aggression that seems to plague so many of our young people today. The brutality of pretension and lies that make people go on a downward spiral to their doom is very well explained in this novel. Upon reading it, we, the readers, come to realize that we are either the fake ones or the desperate ones. Is there a possibility to overcome either side? If not, can we overcome the circumstances of our actions? Maybe. Maybe not.	1998-06-02
