US	51048916	RJGBZZZJXUI8P	076791533X	40998123	Sixty-Six	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Soldiers and Hippies	It is a great 60's book as the name implies. Typical run of the mill story of young men and women coming of age during the Vietnam debacle, caught up in their own life's whirl-wind. It is a story of friendship, innocence lost, romance, ambition and lack of it. The most intriguing character, Neil, an iconoclast, goes his own way by enlisting in the army whereas his friends get out of it by producing doctor's letter. But soon he returns to his town wearing a soldier's uniform, AWOL. He never acknowledges why he wanted to enlist or why he came back, a deserter. He is an enigma, an aloof character, a thorn in his friend's side, a train wreck bound to happen.<br /><br />There is an eerie parallel to the current Iraq war and the one which blazed for a decade in South East Asia almost 40 years ago. Politicians start wars on vague notions, send young men/women to fight and then sit back and rationalize. Ben, who is always popping pills, wonders out loud \\"Why are we concerned about Communism spreading in South East Asia now when we didn't do anything to prevent Eastern Europe fall in Communist hands after WWII.\\" Ben's comment can easily apply to any decade; just replace the word communism with dictatorship.<br /><br />More than anything it is a book of friendship, camaraderie among men, the kinship which is hard to describe.<br /><br />It must be an autobiography.	2005-07-06
US	51048916	R3SYRLIV18SXSD	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	young boy and the sea	It is a memorable book, a combination of Robinson Crusoe, David Copperfield, Moby Dick, Old Man and the Sea, Mutiny on the Bounty all rolled into one with one big exception. It is uproariously funny, witty, chock full of bon mots, a delight to read. How can you not like a book where the protagonist is a 16 year old boy who is named Piscine by his swimmer uncle, who in turn calls himself pi to escape ridicule from his class mates? If I were his classmate I would have teased him by calling \\"Hey you, circumference over diameter, yes you.\\"<br /><br />It is really a incredible story of survival on the open Pacific Ocean in a life boat with as unimaginable companions as you can get, a 450 pound Bengal tiger, a hyena, a wounded giraffe and a female orangutan. It has to be a true story as no writer can dream of such \\"stranger than life\\" fiction. What does one do under these circumstances, leave the boat and jump in the Pacific or be ready to be petit dejeuner for the hungry tiger. But as luck would have it Pi grew up with animals as his father ran a Zoo in Pondicherry, India and it would take all his skill, his common sense and some luck thrown in for good measure to outwit the beast, the elements, not to mention his fears. Tiger may be the king of the jungle, but man is king of the world. A 450 pound tiger is no match for a puny 100 pound boy who can think and plan.	2005-06-27
US	51048916	R2ULTMC9X6ENT3	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	From Africa With Love	It is hilariously funny, a delightful feel good book about life in Botswana. I am sure most people may not even know where Botswana is.<br /><br />Mma \\"Precious\\" Ramotswe  had a rotten marriage, lost an infant and then her father, disasters which could send any one to an asylum. But she rebounds and instead of getting a routine job or opt for a run of the mill business, opens a detective agency in a rural town. She has an office, a secretary, a typewriter and a small white van and is open for business.<br /><br /> Holmes and Poirot would be proud of her technique in solving her client's problems.  Only characters missing are Dr. Watson and Captain Hastings.  Mma Ramotswe ploughs ahead with uncanny insight in solving all her client's foibles, sometimes ending up as a victim of her own making. There is a missing boy caper which meanders through out the book with black magic thrown in for good measure.<br /><br /> I wonder why women don't start a similar venture here in the good old USA. It could become a booming business as we have our share of the same problems which M solved in Botswana,  missing children, philandering husbands, stolen cars, concerned fathers about their daughters, stolen identities, corrupt officials to name a few.	2005-06-17
US	51048916	R1W6SKP9VOSGVY	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Kites, Kismet, Karma	Bravo. A great read. A brilliant autobiography, a modern version of David Copperfield, with Afghanistan's recent turmoil as background.  Hosseni's's prose flows like a mountain stream, heart warming similes with liberal dose of Persian words and phrases. The reader is hooked from page one and is off to an ecstatic roller coaster ride all the way through to the last word of the last page.<br /><br />It is a story of two friends, Amir, born to rich aristocrats and Hassan, his servant's son. They grow up in Kabul, Afghanistan in mid 70's when the country was ruled by a benign monarchy. Hassan with a heart of gold is devoted to Amir, who is rather selfish, self absorbed snob, who would play with Hassan but would not consider him as his equal. In other words Amir is like most of us with our well hidden prejudices, may it be religion, caste, race or status.<br /><br />They play together, climb trees, fly kites. Hassan is an expert with sling shot and an uncanny kite runner, who would correctly guess where a kite would land.  In a conflict with a bully, Hassan saves Amir's honor, but when Hassan was in trouble, Amir walks away and the real story germinates. This ignominious act would haunt Amir all his life.<br /><br />Then the Russians invade Afghanistan and all hell breaks loose.  Amir and his father escape to California and start new life from scratch. Hassan and his father are sent packing to a remote village. It was obvious Amir had to redeem himself for his past deeds and had to get back to his watan, his beloved Afghanistan. His redemption is not Hassan but Hassan's 10 year old son Sohrab.<br /><br />A gem of a book.	2005-05-13
US	51048916	R235VI37HYPITD	082031661X	300765205	Tobacco Road: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Tobacco Road to Nowhere	Tobacco Road must be one of the funniest and yet heart breaking American fiction I have ever read. The patriarch, Jeeter Lester,  twentieth century Don Quixote, also a predecessor to Al Bundy, selfish, lazy procrastinator, who would do anything , say anything to have his way. Every year he would plan on tilling his land to grow cotton but he is so broke that no body would lend him any money for seeds or a mule for this endeavor.<br /><br />He and his wife live in a ramshackle house with two children,18 year old Ellie May who has a congenital deformity and a 16 year old imbecile, Dude, along with Jeeter's mother, who is completely ignored by the family. They had 17 children, 5 died and the rest  flew the coop as soon as they could from this mad house except Ellie May and Dude. They have an equally comic neighbor, Bessie, a widow in her late 30's, who ends up marrying Dude. She lures Dude by promising him a brand new car with the money she received from her husband's insurance. She is a promiscuous nit wit and pretends to be a preacher! This \\"preaching\\", she contends is inherited from her husband.  Using this logic she wants to marry Dude and make him a preacher.<br /><br />Jeu d'es-prit of the book is when Jeeter, Bessie and Dude take the brand new automobile to Augusta to sell wood and end up spending the night in a sleazy motel, where Bessie is taken to different rooms by various men. Jeeter and Dude sleep in one bed, wondering why the motel owner keeps changing Bessie's room and why don't they leave her alone so she can get some rest. However, Bessie never complaints.<br /><br />The book reminded me of Steinbeck's unforgettable paisanos of Tortilla Flat. It is a MUST read.	2005-05-03
US	51048916	R1EE4AX822JEUZ	0374529388	331648920	The Fixer: A Novel (FSG Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	J'accuse	It is a tragic, heart wrenching account of an unfortunate simple man, Yakov Bok, a handyman, a Fixer. He is also a Jew, living during waning days of Tsar Nichols II. He is falsely accused of murdering a boy of 10, a case reminiscent of Dryfus affair, who was also falsely charged and sent to prison, later exonerated, however. It is a remarkable tale of suffering, faith, hatred, endurance and above all triumph of truth. One is helpless when the whole state, the establishment commits such dastardly act. Yakov is doomed as wherever he turns he runs into blood drenched anti-Semitic wall. He spends horrifying three years in solitary confinement just to get his indictment. He waits and he fights against insurmountable odds, never compromising on his principals. Finally Yakov gets his indictment and goes to trial. This book must rank among the best 100 books of 20th cenury.<br /><br />Before we tell ourselves that such horrible deeds do not occur in our free society, think of Abu Gharib, Gauntanamo and recent revelation of kidnapping of passengers and flying them to foreign countries for interrogation under torture. How many Yakovs are in prison today?	2005-03-31
US	51048916	R3NLCQUAM2CGKZ	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a book to end all wars	A brilliant expose of futility of war. Young 19 year old volunteer for the war. They soon find out the life on the front, the slaughter, injuries, amputations, and all other atrocities in vivid detail. It is \\"us against them\\", soldier against soldier and all you want to do is to survive against horrible odds.  This book should be read by all leaders, generals before they embark on any war. Too much blood is spilled by trigger happy leaders in the name of , you can fill in the blanks.<br /><br />Is there ever a time that a war is necessary ? One could argue about the justification of American Civil War, but the twentieth century is replete with slaughter, two World Wars, Korean War, Vietnam, and we are only talking of US history.<br /><br />Remarque's prose is brilliant.	2005-03-16
US	51048916	RSBSEW06C3ZY0	0060930055	797221870	You Can't Go Home Again	Books	3	7	40	N	N	Tom Wolfe, go home	This book could have been written in 50 pages, maybe 55. Thomas Wolfe, obviously, a gifted, talented writer who conveys a point using 25 similes where one would do. He is anti Hemingway. You can easily skip 20 pages anywhere in the book and not miss a thing of any importance. Characters are so over analyzed that you would think you grew up with them.<br /><br />It has a juicy beginning about a writer, George Weber, whose first book is published to rare reviews. The book is about corruption, petty politics, racism in small town in North Carolina and how the author exposes their hypocrisy. But he is heart broken when the town retaliates with venom as his comeuppance for telling the whole world their petty doings.<br /><br />Then the book drifts into his love affair with a married woman, his travel abroad, first to England and then to his favorite land, Germany. But dark clouds are on the horizon as his beloved Germany is falling in the hands of Nazis. His encounter with racism of a different kind as witnessed in a train journey from Berlin to Paris is narrated in heart wrenching detail.<br /><br />The book ends with an open letter to his best friend, his editor where the author pours his heart, a kin to a suicide note. Most believe this book is Wolf's autobiography. With all due respect I would rather read the other Tom Wolfe.	2005-01-17
US	51048916	R2XWKRFFN5KOYX	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Chase family chronicle	Blind Assassin:<br />Margaret Atwood's masterpiece epic, Blind Assassin, a Chase family saga, spanning four generations, recited by aging protagonist Iris, is reminiscent of Ms. Arundhati Roy's brilliant book \\"God of small things\\". The characters go back and forth, as the story is being narrated by  Iris, few names which appear early on are revealed only in the end as the jigsaw puzzle is finally assembled.<br />Her sister, Laura, is the haunting character which reverberates throughout the book whose fate is revealed at the outset. It is hard in the end weather to feel sorry for Iris or hold her in contempt for her feckless behavior when Laura is packed off to an insane asylum by her manipulative husband and sister-in law. Both Iris and Laura are in love with the renegade, revolutionary, Thomas, who was implicated in burning down the family owned button factory, as part of a communist plot. The sisters conspire to protect him and hide him in their own attic, where he manages to seduce Iris. He leaves their home and then we find him as her discrete lover later on as Iris's story unfolds. When Iris tells her sister of her affair with Frank Thomas, then Laura stels her car and takes the fatal plunge off the bridge.It is hard to imagine Iris and her lover during her numerous rendezvous not once talking of Laura, an integral part of their lives!<br />In her unique style with a brilliant twist, Ms. Atwood, conveys the vital  theme of her story through a book also called \\"Blind Assassin\\". One has to read the book to determine the  real author.<br />It is interesting to read a novel set in Canada, so near and yet often forgotten land.	2004-02-06
US	51048916	R24K4A1FMR9ZP	1568582706	729071766	The Manchurian Candidate	Books	5	3	4	N	N	To Manchuria with Love	Condon has written a fascinating thriller on brain washing  bordering on science fiction.The programmed individual is thoroughly under the handler's control who can kill his own mother, wife or anybody they chose at random like a heartless robot. The point was not as much to prove its plausibility but to show its absurdity if it can be mastered. We are also given a high dosage of McCarthyism and pure demagoguery of American politics.<br />Raymond Shaw, an ordinary soldier is captured along with his comrades during the Korean war and were brain washed  by a Chinese doctor for three grueling days  and returned to the US. He is the one chosen, to be used as an assassin  through his American handler. What a handler it turned out to be! His platoon officer, Major Ben Marco, suspects Raymond and the race against time begins. Ben has to decipher the code which transforms Raymond  into a ruthless killer and stop him. He has to reconstruct his nightmares of those ghastly three days of mental torture and sort out the truth through mist and fog of illusion and delusion.He knows his friend is a mere tool and yet he lets him  play one last deadly act and hopes he has the trump card to outsmart Raymond's handler. Does he succeed?<br />A tour de force indeed.	2003-10-19
US	51048916	RNYF83LZ5W36A	0375759654	359278790	The Rainbow (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Truimph of Ursula	The Rainbow by D.H. Lawrence is a fascinating saga of three generations of Brangwen family. I should have read this book before \\"Women in Love\\". Although there is no connection between the two. Numerous characters come and fade away making room for our protagonist, Ursula Brangwen. She is the quintessential Lawrence character, also appeared as Paul Morel in \\"Sons and Lovers\\" and Gudrin in \\"Women in Love\\". They attain everything they desire and yet reject and abandon what they seek to soar even higher. They surely triumph and that is the beauty of all his creations. I guess if all stories end up \\"lived happily ever after\\", then  nobody would have heard of Shakespeare.<br />It must have been a shock to the early 20th century readers of the beautiful lesbian liaison of Ursula and her teacher, not to mention numerous premarital sexual romps with Anton Skrebensky. Lawrence exquisite and poetic prose  make it exhilrating and yet sensual. I guess he kept all the graphic detail for \\"Lady Chatterely's Lover\\".<br />It is a great book with chock full of unforgetable charectors in the rich tradition of Dickens and Hardy.  I	2003-09-13
US	51048916	RMSO3O47OXCHS	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	2	2	N	N	World according to Rufus/Kathryn	A fascinating tale of a  &quot;death in the family&quot; experienced and seen through various eyes, wife's, brother-in-law, aunt and two small children. An unforgettable account of human emotions, empathy, love, misery, sadness, too gruesome to imagine. The irony is that this  book was published after James Agee passed away.  We can all relate to Rufus when he describes in detail the  taunts, ridicule he endures from the older boys. It is a very shaky and unsafe world seen through young impressionable unsure eyes. A must read.	2003-08-12
US	51048916	R20US28HOG04XB	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	10	15	N	N	The Prodigal wife	Emma Bovary, the most audacious adulterer in all literature, has  lot of company, Anna Karanina, Lady Chatterley to name few. But as we at times feel sympathy for the other famous protagonists, there is a strong dislike at times revulsion for Madame Bovary for her outlandish behavior at the expense of not only her cowardly husband but also her lonely, helpless daughter. She would sacrifice anything, anybody to have her way. Consequences be damn. When somebody asked Flaubert who was the model for his famous heroine he replied &quot;That Bovary woman is myself!&quot;<br /><br />Madam Bovary is bored with her boorish, uncouth husband and longs for romance, gaiety , excitement, music, dance, theater, everything a intellectual Parisian woman would have. She wanted to be a bourgeois!  She falls headlong into disaster. She would not even destroy the love letters which were stashed away in the attic.  Emma despised her husband to such a degree that she shuddered to think of his forgiveness which she knew she would  sure to get after he found out of her infidelity.<br /><br /> She is no doubt one of the most fascinating characters even penned.  One can just imagine the reverberations the book must have caused in Victorian England in mid 19th century not to mention America.	2003-06-21
US	51048916	R176LW9IDUFUAV	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	To Vietnam with love	It is interesting to read books by an author in the reverse order, last to first. We can see any profound transformations especially when it comes to religion. In \\"The Quiet American\\" our protagonist is an atheist,unlike others who follow in Graham Greene's later great works, like, The Heart of the Matter, The End of an Affair and The Honorary Counsel.<br />Fowler, a middle age journalist for a British newspaper, is in love with a girl, set in 1955 Vietnam. The French were fighting to keep control of this far east colony and Americans were arriving to strike a balance between the colonial power and the communists. Enter Pyle, the quiet American, a kind hearted Harvard graduate, with good intentions, working as a liaison for American Economic Council, a cover. Fowler is taken in by Pyle's innocence, his youth, enthusiasm, at the same time totally disappointed and upset that he is in love with his girl. When a bomb goes off, with Pyle's complicity, and kills innocent people, he tells Fowler they died for a good cause, democracy, a precursor to those famous words spoken by an American commander in 60's  \\" We had to destroy the village in order to save It.\\".  Fowler is outraged at this atrocity. When the conspirators approach Fowler, who had been a neutral observer all along,  now is torn between friendship and the courage to take sides for a cause. His French colleague had once told him \\"You are here and you have to take sides sooner or later.\\"<br />A great read. Greene exposes the hypocrisy of West's mind set.	2003-05-27
US	51048916	R2WCLPB7GG0V4G	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	From Japan with love	An exciting, tantalizing, erotic and enchanting saga of a girl with beautiful eyes. The story revolves around her exotic eyes which mesmerize, galvanize the beholder and eventually open all doors for her happiness. Chiyo-Chan, shy, insecure country bumpkin, who was sold by her father when she was six years old metamorphoses into a beautiful Geisha, Nitta sayuri. It is a tale of making of a Geisha, well researched, taking us into far corners of this mysterious, forbidden world. In the end we come out quiet satisfied and yearning for more. We learn all about rivalries, infighting, vying for patrons, bidding for mizuage, tea house parties, intricate details of garments they wore, and of course those gorgeous kimonos.<br />Chiyo- Chan comes a long way from a tipsy house on a mountain top in remote town in Japan to Waldorf Astoria on chic Park Ave. In New York. She encounters numerous hurdles, beginning with separation from her sister to sustaining cruelties of  a jealous, petty, resident geisha, Hatsumomo, to various men in her exciting, exotic geisha life. Her heart, however, belonged to Chairman and she agonizes when she finds out her \\"mizuage\\" is awarded to Dr. Crab. A love story with Sushi. Unforgettable	2003-05-16
US	51048916	R1MRWNWN2LTZWA	0451518829	990924494	Sons and Lovers	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Mothers and Lovers	A tour de force! Bravo. It is story of Paul Morel who loves his mother more than himself. Mrs. Morel who is married to a ignorant, illiterate coal miner tries to find comfort, solace and love in her sons, first with Walter and when Walter dies unexpectedly, with Paul, the second son. She lives for him, he for her. She is so possessive of him that she objects his involvement with his first love, Miriam. He then goes after, Clara, a married woman. The book revolves around Paul and these three desperate women, who comfort him, torture him and<br />he scornfully resiprocates. But he is always faithful to his mother , who he adores. I guess we are all like Paul, in some<br />ways. Miriam is a haunting character who reverberates in the entire book, so innocent, pure, religious, pious and madly in love with Paul. Clara, on the other hand, very rigid,  calculating, demanding and yet very vulnerable. In Paul we see  callousness, sacrifice, piety, haughtiness, repentance, a bit of Roskolnikov, a young man whose life is torn between a adoring mother and two lovers. In the end his high spirits and intellegence prevail and he conquers his demons.	2003-05-08
US	51048916	R1RC1BSC4QKVXG	038082101X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	East meets West	It is a delightful saga of a adopted girl, Eliza, who grows up in a strict, disciplinarian English household in Chile with an Indian as a caretaker, set in mid 19th century. She inherits the adventurism from her father, Captain John Somers, a bachelor always at sea, who gives her up to his sister, Sara, for adoption. Eliza's Chilean mother, a victim of one night tryst with the sea captain with a roving eye, is not  part of the drama . Sara, a spinster living with her other older brother, Jeremy, has her own seedy past, tries her best to instill all good Victorian values in Eliza under her tutelage.  But Eliza wants none of the piety and falls in love head over heals with an  ordinary employee, Joachin Andieta. They have a  roaring affair in the attic while Sara and Jeremy are going about their business. I guess Ms. Allende had to include raw sex to show the absurdity and hypocrisy of Victorian morals.<br />Joachin rushes off to California, in search of gold, and Eliza follows in search of Joachin with the help of Tao Chi'en. Tao, a Chinese immigrant, who is a doctor,  an acupuncturist, a cook, amongt other things, the novel's other protagonist, almost steals the show. (Note the spelling of Joachin, change J to T and you have Tao Chi'en.). Tao is epitome of Eastern virtues, moral rectitude, a genuine human being, who guides and nurtures Eliza. Eliza lives like a boy with Tao in California, pretending to be his deaf/mute brother. After few days of this idyllic life she suddenly realizes  why she left her country to begin with and  gallops off to find Joachin, leaving Tao Chi'en behind. She then gets involved in numerous adventures, dressed as a boy, once as an pianist in a brothel. But where is Joachin?  Actually he had enough of gringo hospitality, becomes a full blown marauder, taking revenge, killing innocent people, a 19th century Al Capone. Who does Eliza belong to?<br />A fascinating tale of love, greed, sacrifice, friendship, morality, adventure and above all survival.survival.	2003-03-07
US	51048916	RO9CT4W98H4LF	0688073018	470742788	To the Scaffold: The Life of Marie Antoinette	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Viva La Antoinette!	&quot;To the Scaffild&quot; meant &quot;To the Guillotine&quot;. It is a brilliant account of French revolution, with two heroines, one Lady Liberty and the other its victim Marie Antoinette. Oxford American Dictionary defines guillotine as &quot;a machine with a heavy blade used for beheading criminals in France&quot;. criminals? Luois XVI and his unfortunate wife Marie- Antoinette were definetely not criminals To the Scaffold&quot;, of course meant &quot;to the guillotine&quot;. It is a brilliant account of French revolution. They were the unluckiest royal couple in all of history to get engulfed in a maelstrom of events beyond their control. They were of noble hearts and displayed tremendous courage against severe odds and went to the guillotine with heads high. The famine, bad weather, bankrupt treasury, countless corrupt officials at Versailles, and  a inept, brooding Louis in charge. He was weak, lacked leadership and looked to his wife for advise. Antoinette was smart, intelligent but did not know how to govern. She did spend lavishly, foolishly and may have been the true culprit in bringing down the monarchy.  But hey, that's what queens are supposed to do. She was so young, innocent, unaware of the treachery at Versailles. She had to learn on the job with no help from the dauphin, who was clumsy, shy, impotent and of weak mind. They were doomed.<br />Louis  always believed that the revolutionaries were a minority and people at large loved him and all would be well in the end. Later on as events unfolded  they reasoned Austria and Prussia would come to their rescue. That was their undoing, as Parisiners would never let foreigners invade their beloved city and annihilate them. They had to get rid of Louis. His old confidant, a black smith, betrayd him  as the national guard found incriminating evidence of plots against the revolution, hidden in a safe. They marched him to guillotine.<br /> Innuendoes, rumors did Antoinette in as she was always hated by the populace.... She was called [the] worst names, accused of incest, deprived of her children, and was sentenced to die on trumped of charges of treason.<br />The revolution germinated the day Louis XIV, the sun king, uttered the words, &quot;Le Etas, Ce' moi&quot;.  Ultimately his great great grand son paid the price. If other countries had intervened in time in the late 1790, the slaughter could have been averted. There would have been no Napolean, the whole history of the world would have been completely different.  Edmund Burke so aptly said at that time &quot;The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing&quot;.<br />Great Read. Highly recommend it for all history buffs.pulace.... She was called [the] worst names, accused of incest, deprived of her children, and was sentenced to die on trumped of charges of treason.  <br />The revolution germinated the day Louis XIV, the sun king, uttered the words, &quot;Le Etas, Ce' moi&quot;.  Ultimately his great great grand son paid the price. If other countries had intervened in time in the late 1790, the slaughter could have been averted. There would have been no Napolean, the whole history of the world would have been completely different.  Edmund Burke so aptly said at that time &quot;The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing&quot;. <br />Great Read. Highly recommend it for all history buffs.	2002-12-14
US	51048916	R3P9J8Q1CPZT86	067972575X	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	7	12	N	Y	An allegory	What an enactment! Gunther Grass is narrating Oskar Matzarat's story, a boy who makes up his mind not to grow when he is three years old, relates life in Dazing, his hometown, with full of unforgettable  characters and produces a tour de force. Oskar could hardly wait to get his drum at age three, promised by his mother when he was born. With his drum Oskar can now break glass, be it may church window, his teacher's eye piece or doctor's mason jars by playing the drum or by just his shrill voice.<br />The story is Nazi history narrated from inside seen thru Oskar's eyes, his alleged father being a party member in good standing. Gunther Grass portrays  two events brilliantly, Kristallnacht, killing of innocent Jews and confiscating their property and the second, bold resistance by citizens against all odds to fight the Nazi occupation. Oakar is witness to both the events, first as he walks into his favourite toy store with hordes of drums, to find Sigismund Markus, the owner, murdered and the second, the Resistance, arguably  the piece de resistance of the book,  at the Polish post office where his other alleged father, Jan Bronski, is holed up with  Polish fighters, defending it. After the library is demolished, Bronski along with others surrender and later Oskar finds out he was shot by the Germans.<br />Oskar relates his biography, as a  non-chalance, yet times reluctant, participant  to Nazi history unfolding around him. He is there at their victory parades and gruesome defeats, when the Russians occupy Danzig and kill his alleged father Matzerath and when an errant bomb takes the life of his sweatheart, Rosarita.<br />He confesses his involvment in both their (alleged fathers) murders, Matzerath and Bronski. He had no use for either of them, specially Matzerath, who married his beloved Maria, who begets his son, Kurt!<br />Oscar is writing his biography inside an asylum with his keeper's help, Bruno, a kind accomodating soul. The book ends with his exoneration from murder charge, but Oskar is not too happy to get out of his safe asylum.<br />A great allegory of Nazi horrors, a masterpiece.rom murder charge, but Oskar is not too happy to get out of his safe asylum.<br />A great allegory of Nazi horrors, a masterpiece.	2002-11-07
US	51048916	R2OMCTRUAS5LZK	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Spy who came in and went back to cold:	Arkydy Renko, an honest hard working, conscientious, public investigator, fights his way through a maze of evil and hostile characters, the cunning, ruthless American entrepreneur, Osborne, his own corrupt boss, Yamskoi and major Preblida, the KGB man. He is after the ruthless killer of three young people, found in frozen Gorky Park, shot at point- blank- range, their faces and fingertips obliterated.. He is helped along the way by the brother of one of the slain men, a young American idealist. Curwell, a New York detective, fluent in Russian, joins hands reluctantly with Arkydy to revenge his brother's murder.<br />Arkydy, by brilliant reasoning and with help from his love, Arina Ossinova, entangles the Sable fur trade, the labyrinth of KGB, and bureaucracy of FBI, tracks down the killer all the way to New York City. Here detective Curwell teams up with him to go after Osborne. But Osborne knows the score and book ends with an unforgettable scene where Arkydy fulfilling his task, limps back to Moscow. He tells Arina, his accomplice and love,who sells her very soul to come to America, to go disappear in America, where she belongs.<br />The book sheds light on dark, Byzantine, bad old days of Soviet Union where every body spied on every body and KGB ruled supreme. I guess people<br />like Arkydy, the optimistic, very human chief investigator, turned the Soviet r&eacute;gime around and created another revolution seventy years after the brutal first, paving the way for democracy.	2002-10-14
US	51048916	R2L42YY8LSYJ1P	0060084049	225201186	Cuba Libre	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Historical fiction	Typical Elmore Leonard's crime genre, set against Spanish American war of 1898. Ben Tyler, a gun runner from Arizona is enticed by his friend Charlie Burke to bring horses to Cuba in a plot to smuggle guns to the Cubans who are fighting the Dons, Spaniards. The story then twists and turns with misstress,sugar mills, dungeons, duels, gun fights, bank robberiers, train explosions, with end never in doubt. Leonard created an unforgetable charector in Rolland Burdreaux, the American Industrialist, an opportunist and yet a realist...A good history lesson witout any clues to how the MAINE really blew up. It will always be a mystry.	2002-09-28
US	51048916	R1L2OU93JXPV5V	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thrilling adventure	Wow! what a wonderful, suspense, action packed thriller. 60's left over hippies, who would blow up buildings, banks, come back alive in 80's to extract revenge and collect booty from two rich brothers, snobs, and one a hopeless drunk. But they did not count on a energetic selfless honest cop who is also an expert in assembling and disassembling bombs. The last scene, a masterpiece, will keep you on the edge of the seat and all one has to do is keep turning the pages. It ends with a bang and the charectors reverberate long after you finish the book. Elmore Leonard's tour de force. A book begging to be a movie.	2002-07-28
US	51048916	R342Y903VR807B	078610970X	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Ancient History)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Emperors, Ceasors, Imperators, O My!	Conspiracy, suspicion, power, corruption, poison, conquests, marauders, murders and more murders. Such is the history of Roman Empire. Then again there are copious examples from every nation's history of such dastardly acts to grab power, from Egyptians pharos, to Bourbons, to Indian Moguls, to British royalty. Human nature has changed very little in two thousand years. Now instead of murdering opponents, we vilify them to such an extent that populace loathes and discards them in the garbage bin. Grant discounts Lord Acton's polemical quote \\"Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely\\". Later Lord Acton had modified in saying that too much responsibility coupled with intense fear of life corrupts absolutely. It is very hard to imagine for us, normal souls, with two thousand years separation, what would we do if we were given absolute power over everybody and every thing. But would we resort to killing our own mother like Nero, or have sexual relationships with sisters, like Caligula. It is quite possible if Nixon were the Roman Empire and Watergate exploded on the stage, he would not have hesitated in having few senators, congressmen dispatched in due haste. If there are any good emperors, the vote should go to Augustus, starting from nothing, except, Julius Caesar's adopted nephew, to emerge as victor, after defeating all his rivals, one by one including Mark Anthony and his beloved Cleopatra. Vespatian can also be called a hero to come up the ranks from an ordinary family to start a dynasty and consolidate Rome after bitter civil war.<br />Aggripina the younger stands out among all the women ,( if one can discount Livia, Augustus wife in Graves incomparable \\"I, Claudius\\", where he portrays Livia as villai) who is married to aging Claudius, the fourth emperor. She runs the kingdom in his name and manages to bypass Claudius own son and places her son, Nero on the throne. How does Nero reward her? He lets her go out on a faulty boat to drown. What are sons for?<br />Few emperors, imperators were tyrants, megalomanias and sadists and most of them were murdered by conspiracy. Why any body wanted to be one is puzzling as no doubt they all knew the history so well. So Lord Acton is right. It is human nature to lust for Absolute power.<br />The Roman history is fascinating read of human nature, ambition, treachery, power and above all its glory.for?<br />Few emperors, imperators were tyrants, megalomanias and sadists and most of them were murdered by conspiracy. Why any body wanted to be one is puzzling as no doubt they all knew the history so well. So Lord Acton is right. It is human nature to lust for Absolute power. <br />The Roman history is fascinating read of human nature, ambition, treachery, power and above all its glory.	2002-06-24
US	51048916	R18YW3N3WPVOVV	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Soliloquy with God	Graham Greene has his charectors soliloquy with God. Here we have Maurice Bendrix, the narrator of the story, who is in love with Sara Miles. They both converse with God just like Major Scobie did in \\"The Heart of the Matter\\" with equally devastating outcome. Sara is married to Henry and is stuck in a loveless, sexless union, falls in love with the famous writer, Maurice. In the funniest scene, jeu d'es.prit, where Henry confesses to Maurice about his doubts regarding Sara's fidelity and wants to have a detective follow her. Actually it is Mauruce who hires Mr. Parkis and procures Sara's dairy. After he realizes her true love for him, he runs to claim her and take her away from Henry. But-----, if life were that simple. Sara, during Blitz, prays to God, if He would save Bendrix life, then she would give him up for ever. It is the tug of war between faith and love, a dichotomy which really consumes her. Maurice, who is the most human of all charectors in the book, shows, envy, jealousy, love, friendship, and faith or lack of it. Greene always has his women pure and loving and men display petty jealousy.<br />Great insight into humar consciousness and duty to God. A wonderful read.	2002-06-13
US	51048916	R1QL0J626SI2ZT	0899681352	544973196	Beau Geste	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Thrilling Yarn	Beau Geste must rank very high with other all time great adventure novels. It has everything! Roamance, adventure,French foreign legionares, sadistic Sargeants, cut throat mutineers, arabs, escape on camels in Sahara, incedible frienships, brotherly love, sacrifices, and above all the Blue Water, the actual leitmotif. Blue water,a very rare saphire, belonged to Aunt Patricia,and is stolen from her mansion and the obvious culprit is one of the eight prersent when the lights went out and the jewel disappears. Among eight are the Geste brothers, Mike (Beau), Digby and the narrator, John. It is fascinating how Wren puts the jigsaw puzzle together, when two seperate versions of the same tale merge in the end.  All good guys are<br /> English/Americans, bad guys Italians, French or Germans. It is made for hollywood, hence so many versions. I could not put it down. Great read. Aunt Patricia pulls it off!	2002-06-04
US	51048916	R3T5EOFEOZSQE6	0451527569	165299353	The House of Mirth (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	New York, Gone with the wind	The House of Mirth is Wharton's best. Lily Bart who is poor, pure and honest, bred to be a socialite was doomed amongst the rich and mighty, the hypocrite, her frinds and benefactors. She had so many opportunities to get even with her accusers, but Wharton keeps her heroine above that and keeps her self respect intact.  There was Lawrence Selden who tried to rescue her many times. But Lily wanted to marry rich, spurned him. In the end when he finally runs to her to claim her, it was too late.	2002-05-14
US	51048916	R1ZKNPR5R13RRF	0140437843	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	mind over matter	The essence of the book can be summed up when Dorian Grey wishes that his portrait to age, get old and decay but he should remain young and beautiful for ever! He not only accomplishes it but convinces others to this remarkable feat. He is so conceited, self absorbed and without any conscious that after he murders his true friend, he goes to bed and has a good night sleep. Dorian Grey is one of the most bizarre charecters in literature. I guess we all have a little bit of Dorian Grey in us at times, hopefully in small doses. Lord Henry, the quick witted,<br /> brilliant companion is none other than Oscar Wilde. A<br />remarkable book. If it were written today, there would be lot of<br /> controversy as the male charecters bond so freely. Oscar Wilde himself was accused of homosexual act and was sent to jail for<br />two years. He left England and moved to France where he died at a<br />very young age. What a loss?	2002-04-28
US	51048916	R378HT2AE0233N	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The heart of the matter	I thoroughly enjoyed the book. We can all see a little bit of ourself in Scobie. He is such a devoted hunband, an honest bureaucrat, who only borrows money to make her wife happy. He cannot help falling in love with a young helpless girl and goes to extremes to keep it a secret. Although the whole town knows of the affair.But being a good human he loves GOD and could not bear to live a decietful life. He loved his wife and Helen, but could not have either. Ofcourse the event which drives him to the brink is own involvement in murder of Ali, his faithful servant of 15 years.  He had no other choise but to escape. In Scobie we see a glimpse of Dr. Plarr of \\"The honorary Consul\\", similar adultery theme.	2002-04-17
