US	51046735	R2C5ZBJ919XO3M	0843950366	28088750	Body Electric	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Please Make a Movie from this book! BEST Ever!	Better than Hollywood's version of AI, I hope this becomes a movie! It would be the BEST, or at least up there with LOTR Trilogy, I'd ever see in my lifetime. This book is 100 times better than the Matrix--it's what the Matrix should have been. I had never read this author before & found this book in a bargain bin at my local CVS drugstore for $2.50! Body Electric by Squires would easily be worth much more to me. I've been an avid, even voracious, reader ALL my life (40+ years so far) and this is THE BEST story I have ever read! That is an unbelievable accomplishment for I've read & re-read at least half a million books. I can not wait to devour the rest of Squire's novels.<br />I am a computer guru to everyone who knows me, and I'm overwhelmingly impressed with the research, imagination & credibility Susan Squires expertly, and SEAMLESSLY, compiled in \\"Body Electric\\". Believable even in its incredibility, Squires makes the impossible seem simple, this story reads like a secret conspiracy we can all believe is already happening, and she the brave whistle-blower. Every page flies by, can't put the book down, MUST know what happens next, then next, but towards the middle suddenly the pages slow down; not because they are boring but because one becomes aware of an urgent need to make this pleasure last, dreading the knowledge that the story WILL end though one wants to stay immersed in the story forever.<br />You've read the plot descriptions in the other reviews. Vic definitely has psychological issues--as do all humans--and is sexually imbalanced. The earlier reviewer mentions incest, as a mother-child dynamic, & missed the connection completely. Vic doesn't see Jodie as her child at all. Vic sees Jodie as her Creation, as one might imagine our Creator sees US! When adding Vic's sexual and identity problems to the mix, it is inevitable that they become lovers, since VIC HAS in effect CREATED her IDEAL MATE! Many modern women love adult men who AT TIMES seem childish, naive & innocent, without their relationship being compared to incest. Vic's real struggle is with her relationship as Jodie's Creator, knowing he started as a Computer Software Program, not the VERY HUMAN being he becomes. Vic relates to machines better than she ever could with humans, eventually this is what allows her to accept her love for Jodie and let go of her shame for being attracted to something essentially NON-Human. Vic struggles to define herself, and what exactly defines pure unsocialized gender, and humanity, throughout the novel. Just as in ALL of us there is a shadow side we don't much like, the same is true of the recognizably REAL Victoria. What we can't like in her character are those parts of ourselves we see in Vic, and reject just as she does.<br />Jodie is every woman's ideal man {except for that photographic memory perhaps?:=}, with the hard-soft combination all women secretly desire in their mate. Who wouldn't love a teachable man? Squires inserts much humor into her novel & I found myself moved on so many levels throughout, laughing, crying, afraid, angry, grinning, disgusted, hopeful. We fall in love with his character, we fear for him right along with Vic, and we fear for Vic as well, wondering along with her, \\"Just WHAT IS Jodie capable of? Is there any thing he can't do?\\" Jodie healed the hole in his skull, grew new bone, skin & hair in under 24 hours, by telling the body to do so, but the one thing he can't do is stop having Grand Mal Seizures. Determined to save him human brain from degenerating further & losing his chance at life, and maybe a future with Victoria, Jodie believes he can get back into the evil megalomaniac Trillionaire McIntire's Super Computer and restore his core program code, trapped behind a firewall Jodie and Vic created. But now that core program seems to have a life and will of its own, blocking access to everyone, including its Host or Creators!<br />This is one thrill ride a lucky reader will never forget! \\"Body Electric\\" is a definite KEEPER to be read again & again, each time as exciting as the first. Sexy without going into too much detail, intelligent, credible, moving, drama & action, funny, scary, the best in ANY class or genre. \\"Body Electric\\" is going to be a classic, and Squires the Creator of a whole new class of writing that raises the bar for all others, and spoils us for anyone else.\\"Body Electric\\" is a definite KEEPER to be read again & again, each time as exciting as the first. Sexy without going into too much detail, intelligent, credible, moving, drama & action, funny, scary, the best in ANY class or genre. \\"Body Electric\\" is going to be a classic, and Squires the Creator of a whole new class of writing that raises the bar for all others, and spoils us for anyone else.	2004-05-31
US	51046735	R2ZGWXU6LW0BQQ	0505524503	376574179	After Twilight	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Could NOT Put this one Down!	This is my first time reading Amanda Ashley & Rhonda Thomson, but definitely not my last! Both are now that greatest of all finds--new favorite authors! I can't remember the last time I read a collection of short stories, but I wanted to sample these authors in hopes of finding more paranormal romances to enjoy. I'm new to this genre, the closest I came was Rice's vampire series, now seen as incomparable in excitement, sensuality, and satisfaction. I've seen the future & it's not Rice or her Lestat.<br />Thomson's Werewolf story is the most believable, moving and romantic of its type, unique as incredible as that seems, for this wolf-man is almost too human, & sexy is an understatement. I may never go back to mere human romances again. I hope this author keeps her unique edge and continues to breathe life into such marvelous character-driven stories.<br />Amanda Ashley creates a female antagonist, Leanne, who is a bit too incredible & perfect to believe in fully, plus annoyingly reluctant one minute, accepting too much too soon the next. Jason, not an imaginative name for a vampire from Europe, & Leanne go back & forth constantly--vowing to never see each other again, only to fall back into each other's arms repeatedly--a tiring plot design of crisis & fulfillment that keeps irritatingly interrupting the reader's escape into the story. This seems a lazy, template-driven way to create tension to me. Still, this is a sensual fantasy fairy tale that will satisfy almost any appetite, though the climax may seem effortful once it's over. Ashley delivers on her promises predictably--I'm still hoping to find an author who will surprise me with an unpredictable ending in this genre. I will peek at Ashley's other paranormals to see if she's a worthy new favorite author to explore fully.<br />Feehan satisfies completely with another fantastic book from her \\"Dark\\" series. Dark Dreams features a powerful ancient Carpathian guardian of his people, about to walk into the sun & end his existence. He has given up in his search of the Light lifemate who could save him from becoming the very evil he hunts & destroys. Same exact plot, just different names and details. We get exactly what we expect in Feehan's Dark series, and the climactic moment, while even thrilling at times & eventually satisfying, gets as stale as monogamy in a loveless marriage after awhile. What makes up for that predictability is Feehan's expert character development which makes us care about & love them like we would a chosen family. The humor is perfectly blended and laugh-out-loud hilarious. The romance & sensuality more fulfilling, detailed & REAL than any other in this genre. Still, the laziest phrase authors use in ALL of these novels, though gratefully Feehan uses it less than most, \\"he deepens the kiss\\", turns me off like a cold shower. Please authors & EDITORS, delete that phrase from your stories--it adds nothing to our knowledge of the characters or story, and is just unnecessary sloth.<br />It is exciting to read each author's different idea of what would make mythic monsters romantic and acceptable to the human characters & readers alike. I'm addicted to this new-for-me genre because these authors DO make suspending reality fairly easy, an escape sorely needed in today's world of human monster's with no morals. Here instead, we are confronted with morally good creatures traditionally seen as monsters that are anything BUT. Thanks to these three authors for introducing me to a new source of pleasure--short novel length stories packed into a single-book bargain. I look forward to filling my selves with more books from all three! Like those potato chips we can't eat just one of, these stories are irresistable.d his existence. He has given up in his search of the Light lifemate who could save him from becoming the very evil he hunts & destroys. Same exact plot, just different names and details. We get exactly what we expect in Feehan's Dark series, and the climactic moment, while even thrilling at times & eventually satisfying, gets as stale as monogamy in a loveless marriage after awhile. What makes up for that predictability is Feehan's expert character development which makes us care about & love them like we would a chosen family. The humor is perfectly blended and laugh-out-loud hilarious. The romance & sensuality more fulfilling, detailed & REAL than any other in this genre. Still, the laziest phrase authors use in ALL of these novels, though gratefully Feehan uses it less than most, \\"he deepens the kiss\\", turns me off like a cold shower. Please authors & EDITORS, delete that phrase from your stories--it adds nothing to our knowledge of the characters or story, and is just unnecessary sloth.<br />It is exciting to read each author's different idea of what would make mythic monsters romantic and acceptable to the human characters & readers alike. I'm addicted to this new-for-me genre because these authors DO make suspending reality fairly easy, an escape sorely needed in today's world of human monster's with no morals. Here instead, we are confronted with morally good creatures traditionally seen as monsters that are anything BUT. Thanks to these three authors for introducing me to a new source of pleasure--short novel length stories packed into a single-book bargain. I look forward to filling my selves with more books from all three! Like those potato chips we can't eat just one of, these stories are irresistable.	2004-05-31
US	51046735	R27K8IS5OD2L7Y	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	The #1 BEST EVER! So HOT my fingertips are scorched!	Oh Julian, wherefore art thou MY Julian of Macedon??? WOW! A-hem. Whether a fan of romance or not, this is a book EVERY WOMAN MUST OWN, whew! I stayed up all night long, and I shamelessly admit to some major lip licking, messy drools...Awww come on Grace, share!<br />For anyone who has even the slightest \\"Love Slave\\" type secret fantasy, this is a must-own-it book, no library copies will do because you will NOT be able to give it back, that means you can forget borrowing a friend's copy! Uh-uh, no way! From page one to the very last typed word, I was ADDICTED! This book has a bit of everything--Magick, God/desses, Ancient history, love story, tragedy, tear jerker, side-achingly funny, action  & sword fights, totally NON-stereotypical characterizations, all wrapped up in a most delicious package. Yummmy.<br />Forget credibility, but that's ok--even if you are like me and don't go for romance because you can't suspend your sense of reality THAT much--because you WON'T even NOTICE it's gone, a pretty neat trick if I do say so! Almost from the start of the story, with Selena bemoaning very publicly about Grace's non-existent sex life, followed by Grace's tomato-ripe protests, the reader falls in love with these characters, and becomes Grace somehow. One definitely loses all sense of time and space outside of this story and almost tumbles onto cloud 9, voyeurs or flies on the wall.<br />Grace is not your typical super-model type, and has been made fun of for her looks, so she is insecure--I think we all can relate to that! She's been used badly by one man and has become sexually anorexic herself while, ironically, working as sex therapy doctor! Witchy Selena, who couldn't be any more different from her best friend Grace, decides to give Grace the birthday surprise of a lifetime, and whew boy, did she!<br />I won't give away anymore of this story, just do yourself a favor and BUY THIS BOOK, then guard it from all your female friends (and maybe a few males too? haha). You won't regret THIS purchase, if anything you may regret that you didn't get it sooner.u won't regret THIS purchase, if anything you may regret that you didn't get it sooner.	2004-05-12
US	51046735	R1HBPPRL7GZJC6	0007117868	511962081	The Real Witches' Kitchen: Spells, Recipes, Oils, Lotions and Potions from the Witches' Hearth	Books	2	54	60	N	Y	Redundant, rehashed, regurgitated &amp; disappointing :-(	I bought this because I expected there to be recipes for making soaps, my own healing &amp; bathing products, experimenting with older recipes &amp; so on. The rave reviews for these recipes must be from someone who has NEVER written their own chant, or read a single other Wiccan-type book, and has such a short-term memory problem they don't realize almost all the recipes, even--or especially--the Healing &amp;/or Magick Intended use the EXACT SAME INGREDIENTS in about 80% of these so-called recipes!<br />Lastly, there is one recipe that looks good enough to try, for a type of fermented fruit mead, though I don't know how original  it is. At least it won't be a total loss; besides those 5 ingredients are just a booster--the magick comes from within.<br />Instead of learning how to make liquid soaps,  shower gels &amp; such, THE AUTHOR TELLS US TO BUY READY-MADE PRODUCT and just add oil and herbs to that! That isn't exactly a unique recipe, it's a hodge podge of someone else's product taking the place of what was supposed to be the auhthors recipes. If you are looking for detailed and unique recipes, look ELSEWHERE! This is a lot of hype but no substance unfortunately. I had truly hoped that THIS time the book would be what it says it is. Sigh.	2004-05-12
US	51046735	R2P7YCVPSFH98X	0131112198	731701470	Along These Lines: Writing Paragraphs and Essays, Third Edition	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Best How To Write Essay Book Available	I am a writer with a disability that pokes holes in my memory just when I need most to retrieve vital information, so I needed a totally complete book on essay writing to look up the types of essays I want to use for my freelance essay writing efforts, and had considered taking a class or workshop, but knew I'd only forget the best parts, later. So, I spent days searching here in the novelist, journalist and writer's subject areas for a thorough &quot;How To&quot; book on writing essays that covered ALL of the rhetorical forms for structuring essays. A few books focused on only one type of essay or were only 100 pages of highlights featuring at most, one or two essay types.<br />Luckily I thought to check the textbook area on Amazon.com. These books aren't just for &quot;kids&quot;. Now I have added the textbook area to my favorites list. :-)<br />&quot;Along These Lines: Writing Paragraphs and Essays, Third Edition<br />by John Sheridan Biays and Carol Wershoven&quot; would get 10 stars if possible. The book is 640 pages. The first 396 pages are devoted to essay writing instructions, idea generating lessons, very clear examples (through out), free flow and journal writing, simple and challenging exercises, countless writing prompts, indepth paragraph structure, writing from reading, and tear-out peer review critique pages in each section with fun word quizzes, individual &amp; class tests. I have the Annotated Instructor's (3rd) Edition, containing the answers, a benefit for writers who want to test their knowledge for each chapter, before moving to the next one. The rest of the book's pages extensively cover grammar and punctuation as used in writing sentences, paragraphs and essays. &quot;Along These Lines&quot; is extensively indexed also.<br />&quot;Along These Lines&quot; contains dozens of beautiful full color photographs (every picture tells a story) and side-bars, with plenty of white space on the pages and margins, that makes the text a pleasure to look through and read. &quot;Along These Lines&quot; is perfect for writers who want a refresher course on essay writing and grammar; writers who enjoy word puzzles, word &amp; vocabulary quizzes and self-testing; any one who writes or wants to be a writer, whether just for fun or a professional, student, journalist or amateur, and wants a course or workshop in Creative Writing, an English refresher class, english-as-second-language practice, or upper level high school or college students.<br />If the price is a problem, there are great alternative sources on Amazon, for used and like-new quality texts at a quarter of the price. My copy came from Amazon Marketplace seller. Now I'm on to edit my wishlist, and remove all the so-so essay writing books that aren't even a third as complete or thorough as &quot;Along These Lines&quot;, though they cost about the same price (or more) than I paid for this book. &quot;Along These Lines&quot; is the ONLY Essay Writing book you or I will ever need.rough and read. &quot;Along These Lines&quot; is perfect for writers who want a refresher course on essay writing and grammar; writers who enjoy word puzzles, word &amp; vocabulary quizzes and self-testing; any one who writes or wants to be a writer, whether just for fun or a professional, student, journalist or amateur, and wants a course or workshop in Creative Writing, an English refresher class, english-as-second-language practice, or upper level high school or college students.<br />If the price is a problem, there are great alternative sources on Amazon, for used and like-new quality texts at a quarter of the price. My copy came from Amazon Marketplace seller. Now I'm on to edit my wishlist, and remove all the so-so essay writing books that aren't even a third as complete or thorough as &quot;Along These Lines&quot;, though they cost about the same price (or more) than I paid for this book. &quot;Along These Lines&quot; is the ONLY Essay Writing book you or I will ever need.	2004-02-07
US	51046735	R3L7LAFVUZ74F9	0762414480	81049681	Roger Burrows Images 5: The Ultimate Coloring Experience	Books	1	39	40	N	Y	Unbelievably LOW Quality	I am hugely disappointed in this item, and the cover photo is extremely misleading, since the inside pages are NOT white as the cover pic shows! They are beige-yellow kraft paper type color and the poorest quality paper of any coloring book--for adults, or kids--that I have ever seen. Why wasn't this very important fact mentioned in the description? The price of this book is outrageous compared to the excellent quality paper and designs of the under four dollar set, such as Dazzling Designs, or even Kaleidoscope Designs coloring books. I would not have paid even two dollars for this book.<br />The pages don't copy well--they come out dirty looking because of the yellowish paper. The pages are very thin, NOT suitable for markers, paint or any wet media (the type I use most). At least they are printed one to a page, and the designs would be great, IF the paper quality were even adequate or minimal, or could be copied in white at least, to color out of the book. Do not pay six-plus bucks for this, unless you have money to burn and are buying this for a genius 2 year old with crayons. Maybe a two dollar used copy would be a good value for children to use?<br />Unfortunately, the designs are the type of complex, 3-D patterns an adult would enjoy most, so I don't understand why they used the worst paper they could find, and then priced it out of range with its actual value. I had all of these versions in my wish list and would have bought every one of them if this one had at least white (or ability to clean copy) pages. The real killer is that it will cost me more to return it and I am out not only the cover price, but postal costs both ways as well.<br />Do all of the \\"Roger Burrows Images\\" (original numbered one through 4) coloring books have such poor quality, thin, non-white scap type paper as this one? If not, let me know and maybe I'll try a different one. The designs in this one are particularly appealing compared to the previous versions by Roger Barrows. The Ultimate Coloring Experience? I think not, unless he means a new ultimate WORST coloring experience. Item cover photo misrepresents this Images 5 book almost to the point of bait and switch technique--show perfectly beautiful, complex designs on brilliant white paper, then inside where a potential online buyer can't truly see, the cheapest medium possible for coloring on.imate Coloring Experience? I think not, unless he means a new ultimate WORST coloring experience. Item cover photo misrepresents this Images 5 book almost to the point of bait and switch technique--show perfectly beautiful, complex designs on brilliant white paper, then inside where a potential online buyer can't truly see, the cheapest medium possible for coloring on.	2004-02-07
US	51046735	R13AVQPM6OAU8D	048640031X	326687767	Dazzling Designs (Dover Design Coloring Books)	Books	3	56	57	N	Y	Great designs but...	The good and the bad:<br />GREAT: Many of the designs are fantastic, like the cover shot; the pages are fairly sturdy but not up to water color paint quality; at least half of the pages have designs to the edge of the paper (though these are just simple, repeated triangles that have no relation to the specific image featured); each design can be interpreted and colored in as many unique ways as there are perspectives; there are 4 glossy, full color samples of completed designs on the front, back and inside covers; and lastly, the authors give permission to use up to ten pages from this book in your publications and projects, which is a BIG PLUS as you will want to photocopy the pages rather than color in the book (see why below), and you can share these designs with others.<br />The BAD:<br />This is the first such coloring book I've seen that uses both front and back sides of a page for different designs! There are only 15 actual pages--30 if you count both sides--and 28 designs to color. The problem with designs on both sides of one piece of paper is bleed (and show) through of art coloring media, and dirty copies because the other side's image copies through. There aren't any additional coloring suggestions or examples, besides the four.<br />\\"Dazzling Designs Coloring Book\\" is well worth the price, and there are enough complex quality designs to please all skill levels. I gave it only 3 stars because there are only 15, double-sided pages, which detracts from it's value, as does the inability to tear out and frame completed page(s).	2004-02-05
US	51046735	R3REHWGII10EMX	0070471703	491226562	Schaum's Quick Guide to Writing Great Essays	Books	2	41	44	N	Y	Too Brief--Essay Types NOT Covered	I am STILL seeking a general how-to essay book that covers all the rhetorical essay pattern types, even after buying Schaum's Quick Guide to Writing Great Essays, because this book does not fulfil the promise of it's title, or misleading descriptive information. I received this book yesterday, skimmed through it immediately, and am greatly disappointed.<br />Schaum's Quick Guide to Writing Great Essays is only OK as a basic reference guide for grammar, sentence and paragraph structure, with one generic outline. None of its chapters cover the types of essays, such as Compare &amp; Contrast, Persuasive, Descriptive, and so on. This book does not give examples of well written essays, either. Instead, it gives extremely brief example sentences, and occasional paragraph samples only.<br />One will NOT learn how to write a specific type of essay, which one would expect to from the book title, description, marketing and cover information. I feel incredibly cheated, since returning it for a refund will cost almost half the price of Schaum's Quick Guide to Writing Great Essays. I would recommend &quot;Elements of Style&quot;, &quot;Essays and Themes&quot;, or &quot;How to Write Better Essays&quot; instead, as better reference and how-to books on writing essays, with examples, rhetorical essay types and every day applications of essay writing.<br />Lastly, the book claims to contain exercises for practicing the concepts within, yet there wasn't a single exercise to be found on examination of the actual book. If you already know how to write great essays, and understand the various structure types for essay outlining, then MAYBE this book would be OK as a reference or reminder of a simple concept one has forgotten and needs to look up. Unfortunately, it's claim as a guide to writing great essays is completely false. Save your money.	2004-02-05
US	51046735	RMUKDFJVPAPVS	0486201805	383366255	Geometrical Design Coloring Book (Dover Design Coloring Books)	Books	3	49	56	N	Y	Deja-vu on almost every page	This book doesn't offer many design variations &amp; is too simplistic for my tastes. While a few were great optical illusion type (and therefore almost worth the price), there are less than 5 complex designs, the rest are exact repeats with slightly different sized elements, angles, or another simple element added. Boring for those who want a challenge &amp; dislike repeating same theme/concept/design. For no-brainer type meditations where you don't want to focus too much on demands of the design, it would be good, as well as for beginners or those intimidated with too many choices. Of course, some will say there aren't many options for variety because of the geometric theme's limits--but the same could be said for mandala adult coloring books, yet there are an unlimited number of designs &amp; levels of challenge in all the mandala books, that is not found in any of the geometric ones, so far.<br /><br />The designs were decent quality paper &amp; lines, not best nor worst. See my other mandala/coloring book reviews for more details on the best choices from the 8 sampled (bought &amp; still use). I especially recommend &quot;Power Mandalas&quot; (BEST of all offerings here), but NOT &quot;Classic Mandalas&quot; (low quality design, simple &amp; boring).<br />HINT: Photocopy, scan &amp; print, or trace each page-design onto good quality craft, watercolor and/or acid-free paper, because you WILL want to frame ALL of your completed work/designs in &quot;Power Mandalas&quot; and still be able to go back &amp; re-do certain ones repeatedly :-) This same hint applies to all of the adult coloring books.<br />Have fun!<br />Gina	2003-04-05
US	51046735	R34UA1C88I7OE1	1402700377	812312673	Classic Mandalas: 74 Designs from the World's Traditions to Color & Meditate	Books	2	19	21	N	Y	Extremely Simplistic...boring	I am very disappointed in this book. The quality of the designs &amp; line-art is child-level, the paper is not sturdy enough to paint on , almost all the designs were so simplistic as to have nothing to color; for example, many have just 2 blank sections sections only such as yin/yang.<br />IMHO, skip this book &amp; get &quot;Power Mandalas&quot; instead--its pages are suitable for painting, framing, repeating without boredom &amp; contain a wide variety of complex designs, meditation and color tips, etc.<br />Gina	2003-04-05
US	51046735	R3HDM9IK4ZZQYR	0806928832	528125202	Power Mandalas	Books	5	47	48	N	Y	Well worth the money!  POWERFUL fun too!	I am awed by the designs in this book. Each design comes with a short meditation as well as a description of what it is for exactly (such as crown chakra or power) and a suggested coloring sequence (but rules are meant to be broken, the author is the 1st to say). One design to a page so they are suitable for framing--if you don't mind having fewer designs to use &amp; color, but I believe there are 42 or 46, plenty! These are HIGH quality, super powerful designs meant to get the reader out of one's head, and body for that matter. While coloring, I transcended all concepts of time. I suffer from chronic pain and almost immediately upon starting the 1st design, my pain faded away until I no longer even felt the discomfort of sitting in a chair.<br />This particular book has a design for each chakra, one for power, energy, 2 for healing and so on. A few are bewitching to the eye just to look at in B &amp; W! The concept is to color from the outside in to focus inward and concentrate, or color from the inside out to open oneself up and expand one's awareness outside of self.<br />This book is well worth the price and I hope it is just the first in a long series of such books by this author. WARNING: Coloring mandalas can be addicting--in a healthy way :-) Especially using TomBow(R) brush markers (they are like a paintbrush in a pen, with a fine-line marker on one end and a TRUE, high quality brush tip on the other, colors FLOW like an extension of the soul...). Enjoy.	2002-10-22
US	51046735	R1X9J3SHPN3JPE	0448422514	522939880	Designs for Coloring: Prisms	Books	3	18	18	N	Y	Deja Vu anyone? Many too simplistic...	I know there are only so many things that can be done with a prism, but still...there are other designs that could be combined with prisms to add more interest, challenge and fun. Each page looked like a copy of the one before it, with maybe a new angle or a bigger set of triangles. In the back of the book, there are 3 of 4 very advanced designs that I wish had been made into a whole book of like designs. If you're just starting out and don't mind repeating the same \\"look\\", then you may like it. I gave my brand new one to a friend instead. I recommend Power Mandala's instead, for variety, complexity and challenging fun.	2002-10-22
US	51046735	R1SDIORGE6CSEM	0877799709	653148041	Merriam Webster's Everyday Language Reference Set	Books	5	51	51	N	Y	A Must Have Set	I had a set similar to this years ago, which became dog-eared &amp; yellowed with constant use. I replaced them with this 3-book set &amp; the Vocabulary Builder is the best part of this set. My husband &amp; I both love learning new words, so we'll often sit &amp; quiz each other from this new set of books. I also use them as quick references in my writing and business ventures. The dictionary is great as an alternative to the official scrabble dictionary (when we get tired of the seemingly made up words that can't be found in any other dictionary). Maybe I'm just strange--I did read dictionaries &amp; thesauruses for fun as a child &amp; teen.<br />This set is an excellent value for the money &amp; will be referred to &amp; used again &amp; again. No home or office should be without this reference set.	2001-11-12
US	51046735	RTS1WRJL2M1Z0	0877799156	211621092	The Official Scrabble Players Dictionary (Third Edition)	Books	3	31	54	N	Y	Great if you like to cheat	This book has so many made-up words that it makes Scrabble EASY, too easy for my tastes. I bought the deluxe Scrabble board game &amp; this dictionary, being new to Scrabble, I bluffed on numerous 2 and 3 letter words &amp; this dictionary almost always came through for me on my made up words.<br />Not much liking to win by cheating, I checked other dictionaries to validate the words, but many couldn't be found anywhere else but in this Scrabble version. I'm not sure that is a good thing. Often when playing Scrabble, tiring of this book, we instead use the (3-book-set by) Merriam Dictionary instead to make the game more challenging.<br />So it is difficult to rate this book--it depends on whether one enjoys cheating or as I do, prefers a challenge. It's a great book for beginner Scrabble players to use who have a limited vocabulary--pretty much any word you can make up is in this book.<br />Ex: chare, bis, bleb, mair, etc.	2001-11-12
US	51046735	R16FPHMQSX0UFC	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	I can't hardly wait for book #2, which I just pre-ordered today, and book #3 in this series. It seems to be leading to each of the 3 getting their heart's desire &amp; completing the circle. Either way, this book was one of the best I've read in years, with thoroughly drawn characters that lived &amp; breathed as I raced to the climactic moments, then regretted rushing. Now I miss them already &amp; I only put it down 15 minutes ago!<br />I haven't read much of Roberts because I'm not much of a romance fan, but this story was impossible to resist &amp; now I have a new author to catch up on!	2001-11-10
US	51046735	R1GCOO7I4CW5XI	0941599205	285924232	Make Money Reading Books	Books	5	90	92	N	Y	The ONLY original ...	When I first saw this book for sale, I thought it would be a rip off, so I researched and found it on several book sale web sites for $..., much less then the ... ads charge. I decided to take a chance, using a credit card in case it turned out to be a scam.<br />Was I ever surprised! Not only is this THE REAL original book, ... this book gives more practical writing, formatting & freelance business setip advice and tips than 15 other 300+ page writing books combined! This book is worth every penny just for the included free resources alone--publishers, associations, mailing list companies for marketing one's services, an excellent bibloigraphy, formatting examples such as manuscript, resumes, cover and query letters, book reviews with how-to & usable examples, etc.<br />Also included are FULL chapters with complete information on indexing, copy-editing, writing & selling book reviews, how to get published easy (and it IS presented so clearly ANYONE could get published within a month!), how to professionally proof-read, rates of pay for EACH service or task offered, and even tax & deduction tips I've never seen elsewhere! This book is a MUST have for any serious writer's reference shelf & I guarantee it will replace a stack of other so-called writer's how-to books. If you follow this book's advice & examples, you'll be making money \\"reading books\\" within 1 to 2 months!<br />Of course we all know, getting paid to JUST read is a ... What this book does is help the reader make money while enjoying the love of reading AND writing--whether reviewing, indexing, researching, translating, proof-reading or editing, etc.	2001-09-02
US	51046735	R6F1HHQB5GMYA	1568380585	846468470	A Gentle Path Through the Twelve Steps: The Classic Guide for All People in the Process of Recovery	Books	5	124	127	N	Y	#1 book for ALL recovery programs	I recommend this book to every one in ANY 12 step recovery program. I have used it & the 1st step took 90 pages alone, that's how THOROUGH a job this workbook does at helping one build a foundation in recovery. The entire book is 300 pages with LOTS of room to write! I use this with sponsee/sponsor relationships. It covers all addictions whether it is food, sex, alcohol or drugs, relationships, gambling, you name it! It has a very balanced approach to help one see their own powerlessness over becoming an addict in the 1st place & then helps one DO SOMETHING about it. It explores abuse histories for those like me who have suffered all forms of abuse & trauma as a child. FREE Yourself, finally, from the demons of your past that keep you in that shame/addiction cycle. This is the ONLY 12 step workbook that IS as gentle as it says it is, with plenty of breaks. Get to know the you that you have always known you could be, you know, the one who wasn't allowed to EXIST as a child. Words can't express what a miracle this WORKbook has been in my recovery. I've done 1st steps before, but never so completely. For the 1st time, I truly understand & accept powerlessness, and I owe it to the 90 pages of self-discovery this book gifted me with.... Get 2 copies because once everyone sees it, they want one too. Many paths, one journey.	2001-06-13
US	51046735	R3NSKEDJ6BYBS	0553260057	899373584	How to Break Your Addiction to a Person: When and Why Love Doesn't Work, and What to Do About It	Books	4	296	307	N	Y	A Keeper to read again & again	I first devoured this book about 9 years ago & it saved my life, literally! I could not leave a very sick abusive man, even though I was terrified of him, even when he degraded me, even when it made my hate myself & feel disgusted at my seeming powerlessness to leave. This book SAVED my LIFE! I was able to break my lifelong patterns of choosing women haters, violent batterers, charming seductive snakes whose only goal was to drive me insane & break me in pieces emotionally until I had NO self-worth, self-respect, NO SELF at all left. Why do we stay hooked in harmful relationships? It's not always physically abusive, sometimes they are emotionally & verbally abusive to the point that you no longer know what is real. You want so badly to believe the lies & excuses, hold onto the hope that your lover will change if you just love them enough, I know he really loves me, she/he's just having a bad day, etc. If you've ever been in any type of relationship that you knew or suspected was harmful but STILL could NOT leave, you know the shattering pain of addiction to a person.<br />This book tells one how they became addicted & why, how to recognize a bad relationship, how to deal with the power & guilt trips your partner uses to keep you hooked, that jealousy & possessiveness do NOT mean love, how to get through the breakup without going back, & how to break this pattern for good! I could have gone through years of expensive therapy & still not received the exact help or understanding that I needed to set myself free from addictive relationships. I just bought a new copy of the book--it is timeless, worth much more than the cover price of...(therapy could cost thousands, take years & have less results). I recommend getting at least 2 because you won't want to share & we always know at least one person trapped in addictive relationships. You're worth it, right? :-)	2001-06-03
US	51046735	R2PEGJ40DKKJS8	0932194265	98295547	Choicemaking: For Spirituality Seekers, Co-Dependents and Adult Children	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Must Read for Codependents	I borrowed this book from my therapist's library, as I'd arrive early each week to read a chapter at a time. I'm buying a copy for myself so I can write all over the margins! This book is a MUST for anyone close to a codependent as well as the codependent people themselves. It will feel like the author is reading your mind, was a fly on the wall as you grew up &amp; has been following you all your life &amp; knows your struggles by heart. Being truly understood by someone is a joy, but understanding oneself is the 1st step on the journey toward emotional &amp; physical health, self-worth &amp; self-respect, getting one's life &amp; personal power back.<br />This book is one of the most thorough I've read on codependency (and I've read most of them). There are step-by-step exercises, instructions for practicing new skills, and priceless help not found in most books on codependency! I rate this book a 5, because it is the MOST helpful book I've found, including Beattie's, Pia's &amp; other famous author's books on codependency. Some of the chapter titles are: Adult Children of Alcoholics, Parenting the Adult Child (no other book covers this concept--when parents &amp; adult children are in recovery, how to support each other without fusion, and without guilt, blame &amp; shame, what our rights &amp; responsibilities are, promoting total family healing that WORKS!), Ongoing Recovery, Barriers to Recovery (perhaps my favorite chapter), Transformation, the God-Hole, Happiness Wholeness &amp; Holiness (yet it is not a religious book and won't offend even the most anti-Christian sensitivities because the author deals with true spirituality which is rarely found in a church, in my opinion), and Varieties of Codependency. The author tells her own story, and I believe everyone who reads this book--codependent or NOT--will relate to at least some of her story. Her experience, strength &amp; hope shines relentlessly through every page, and she uses an entensive bibliography, credits countless sources to back up her knowledge, and is one of the most credible, professional, genuinely useful (page after page) self-help books I've ever had the fortune to come across. If this book cost 4 times the sale price, it would still be a steal. Do yourself or your loved ones a favor, buy several &amp; share them. :-)redits countless sources to back up her knowledge, and is one of the most credible, professional, genuinely useful (page after page) self-help books I've ever had the fortune to come across. If this book cost 4 times the sale price, it would still be a steal. Do yourself or your loved ones a favor, buy several &amp; share them. :-)	2001-06-03
US	51046735	RPWQ1BICE1CW6	0060974788	825546119	If You Can't Live Without Me, Why Aren't You Dead Yet?!	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Great Breakup Book	This hilarious book hides some hard hitting truths about our relationships, insecurities, doubts &amp; regrets, and helped me get through a nasty breakup without going back. Every time I felt tempted to call him, I'd read a chapter &amp; be laughing too hard at seeing the ridiculous nature of my relationships boldly outlined with laugh-at-myself-and-heal humor. After a breakup is when I feel the most depressed, taking life way too seriously! This book had me laughing the whole way, or smirking, chuckling, snorting, almost-peed-myself, non-stop, nodding-my-head, giggling. Whenever I'd get upset about a man, I'd read a few pages &amp; it was like seeing the guy naked to the core--and myself too (because we're not so innocent either)! I now have the whole set of books this author has written, the humor is timeless &amp; there will always be breakups or jerks who make my hair stand on end, and this book helps release the pressure of taking life too darn seriously.	2001-06-03
US	51046735	R1UGV94D4P6SMJ	0871319063	232864402	What Smart Women Know	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	Best Tool for Women!	This book lived up to its reviews, and far exceeded all of my expectations for greatness. I wish I'd had this as a teenager before I destroyed my 37 years with abusive relationships &amp; problems related to my lack of self-worth (due to childhood trauma, abuse &amp; rapes). Then again, I might not have been ready to absorb it then.<br />In any case, this is a MUST HAVE for any woman who's ever been abused, exploited, used or had a string of abusive relationships--or wants to avoid them, meaning every woman alive. Every page described common errors women have made,and I related to all of them! This book covers every single situation anyone could encounter in relationships, even what red flags to look for on 1st dates, with real-life examples everyone will recognize. I found myself laughing at some of my mistakes &amp; grateful for the explicit instructions on how to avoid repeating them.<br />It is now my most-valuable tool towards one day having a mutually healthy life partner. In the meantime, it also will help with all of my other relationships with friends, family, co-workers, etc. I've written in the margins, highlighted just about every page, and will refer to it time &amp; time again as life's challenges give me opportunities to practice the wisdom between these priceless pages. It will be the best money you've ever spent &amp; you're worth it. :-)	2001-04-27
US	51046735	R2D0BTCGEUD11P	0385316879	170822767	Journey	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Is this the 1st draft? Dangerously ignorant.	Having been in abusive relationships, I couldn't wait to read this although I rarely real Steel. The 1st thing I noticed, from page one, is that Steel starts off every other sentence with the word And. She uses run-on sentence (4 sentences in one, all separated by the word And) one after another. I'm also a writer &amp; there is no possible way this book was edited or went through a second draft. It is written at the level of an 6th grader at best.<br />The story would have been great if it had been realistic, as other reviewers have noted. I applaud that someone finally wrote about the more subtle forms of abuse. The problem is Steel repeated herself for about 1/3rd of the book! Then Maddy only breaks free by using another man! If only Steel had consulted with a psychologist about the sickness of ending this book that way &amp; the message that gives to the public, this book COULD have been great. Unfortunately, it tells abused women that they NEED a man in order to break free. Also Maddy was supposedly seeing an experienced psychologist about her abusive marriage, yet Maddy's excuse for not getting out was not knowing how. Excuse me Ms. Steel, next time call a hotline from any phone book or at least consult a professional. First of all, ANY woman in an abusive relationship of ANY kind if urged to get out immediately, while Maddy was encouraged to STAY WITH her abuser while trying to figure it all out, with her life at risk on a daily basis! The first thing a psychologist must do in this situation is provide resources for an abused client to get out of harms way!<br />Every city has women's shelters, safe houses for immediate escape. All phone books should include toll-free hot lines, if not, call a local hospital and ask for the number of a Domestic Violence/Abuse hot line. No one should read this book &amp; take ANY of Maddy's actions to heart as a valid way to respond to this kind of abuse. Instead, call the hotline &amp; get help NOW. Emotional &amp; verbal abusers can turn physically violent at any time, as Maddy's husband Jack did when he bit her nipple til it bled--yet Maddy stayed with him for almost a year afterwards, suffering progressively worse abuse from her husband that was absolutely unnecesary! One aspect that was apparent from how Steel structured this book--she must believe having access to a plane, a weekend house, luxury and more is worthy of continuous abuse. Maddy was definitely addicted to her luxurious lifestyle, which she used as an excuse not to leave her abuser!<br />I hope Steel at least has an editor to do the work for her before she attempts writing another book on any serious subject such as this one. It is terrifying that someone as widely read &amp; &quot;famous&quot; as Steel could write so dangerously bad--grammatically &amp; ignorantly.users can turn physically violent at any time, as Maddy's husband Jack did when he bit her nipple til it bled--yet Maddy stayed with him for almost a year afterwards, suffering progressively worse abuse from her husband that was absolutely unnecesary! One aspect that was apparent from how Steel structured this book--she must believe having access to a plane, a weekend house, luxury and more is worthy of continuous abuse. Maddy was definitely addicted to her luxurious lifestyle, which she used as an excuse not to leave her abuser!   <br />I hope Steel at least has an editor to do the work for her before she attempts writing another book on any serious subject such as this one. It is terrifying that someone as widely read &amp; &quot;famous&quot; as Steel could write so dangerously bad--grammatically &amp; ignorantly.	2001-04-23
US	51046735	RYN3264YH1ZZ9	1558740902	396897570	An Adult Child's Guide to What's 'Normal'	Books	5	327	332	N	Y	My new ACA Bible	Whoever said it was too cookbook hasn't appreciated the the value of having a thorough one at hand. I loved the Friel's approach. It is a bit harder on the ego than the Woititz ACOA book but this one includes ALL dysfunctions, and I know even after years in recovery I will still find valuable resources in this book to guide me along my bumpy journey. As one who has NO idea what is normal, yet somehow manages to function at the basic level in society, I definitely appreciated the simple yet thorough approach used here.<br />This book isn't another &quot;blame the parents--give you an excuse&quot; soother. It requires that we take responsibility for our adult lives, recovery, happiness, misery, relationships, dysfunctional patterns &amp; our future. This book shows me exactly what healthy (they don't believe in the statistical normal, to them normal means emotionally healthy, which is a far more useful definition of the ambiguous term &quot;normal&quot; anyway) living means, looks-smells-tastes-feels like! I can use this book as a check-up to see if I'm on the right track and if not, follow the suggestions or get further help.<br />Most of all this book helped me to recognize that recovery isn't an overnight process, can't be done alone in isolation, that I'm human and mistakes are actually a GOOD and WELCOME experience and do NOT have anything whatsoever to do with my self-worth. This book even includes several chapters on how to respond to con artists, abusers &amp; generally rude, mean or unhealthy people. How to deal with zingers, how to set healthy boundaries &amp; protect ourselves &amp; our healthy boundaries, I could go on for pages praising this book.<br />I've bought numerous other self-help books &amp; this one was the best. The authors do suggest waiting until one has 2+ years of recovery before tackling this book. To hell with that. Read it now, and every step of the way on your journey. Start feeling better about YOU &amp; your life right NOW, today. Good luck on your journey, happy discoveries to you.od luck on your journey, happy discoveries to you.	2001-04-20
US	51046735	R3D7OER7QV4GHE	1890410101	222115793	Women Are from Bras, Men Are from Penus: A Survival Guide for Bypassing Communication and Getting Even in Your      Relationships	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Like looking into the fun-house mirror	I almost didn't buy this book because of the title. I'm not too fond of parodies. I actually own the other &quot;serious&quot; version of this book &amp; found it much harder to read than this humorous but no less true version. I'd love to see these SuC in person :)<br />This book helped me keep my kewl during the end of a nasty relationship, helped me laugh when I was tired of crying, and helped me see my part in a humorous, easy-to-swallow format. My relationship is still ending, but now I feel much better about it, having regianed my ability to laugh at humanity thanks to this book. I highly recommend it as a gift to newlyweds, singles &amp; long-marrieds alike--in essence, to anyone who has ever been in a relationship with the opposite sex!	2001-04-03
US	51046735	R18D5KKEMXE09I	1558741127	501140521	Adult Children of Alcoholics	Books	5	264	269	N	Y	A gentle start on the road to recovery	Excellent book for those who don't know why their lives are a mess, why they keep getting into abusive relationships, why they don't laugh &amp; have fun like other people, people who tear themselves apart for every imagined or real mistake, those who feel inferior and worthless, those like me who have always guessed (often incorrectly) at what normal is.  Finally here are the answers millions of people need to let go of their crippling past and rediscover their future--one they want to be part of instead of dreading more of the same misery. The authors have been where we are, they know what they are talking about, they are US too. They have experience, compassion &amp; empathy. They lovingly &amp; gently open the doors to the truth for us, and this book could cause you to feel sad, angry, bitter, depressed but the next page will fill you with realistic hope (not the irrational hopes we're used to), belief in a happy future for yourself, motivation to start the journey of recovery from childhood abuse, neglect, trauma, denial, pain, etc. There is a thorough section on recovery groups and what to expect, how it works and so on, so that strangers to recovery will know what to expect, and maybe feel better about taking that 1st step--going to a meeting, finding a therapist, joining a group, reading books &amp; workbooks, reaching out to safe others for support &amp; more. I highly recommend this book to any one from a substance-abuse type family background, but also to people from dysfunctional families as well since all of the same principles apply. I also recommend Adult Children: The Secrets of Dysfunctional Families to those who can't relate to an alcoholic background at all, but who maybe grew up with an over-eating parent, an absent father, a mentally ill caretaker, etc. This is a gentle start for even the most recovery-resistant person. For myself, this book helped me see myself as that little terrified, abused child who was helpless, needy, neglected &amp; denied, and begin to want to love, hug &amp; heal MY inner self instead of running to rescue everyone else, for a change. It's my turn, and thanks to that book I finally believe in my journey and my future. I hope you will take the step and see for yourself what truths lay waiting to bring you relief &amp; understanding.ed, and begin to want to love, hug &amp; heal MY inner self instead of running to rescue everyone else, for a change. It's my turn, and thanks to that book I finally believe in my journey and my future. I hope you will take the step and see for yourself what truths lay waiting to bring you relief &amp; understanding.	2001-03-29
US	51046735	R3E28BCIK1EFT2	0595129943	212766867	Self-Worth Now!	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Wish there had been more!	I would have rated this book much higher except that more than 1/2 of it is EMPTY blank pages! The actual book is only 68 pages long, with the rest being labeled &quot;Blank pages for Your thoughts, feelings &amp; goals&quot;. I know that space could have been better used by providing a work-book type direction to the blank pages by adding questions, ideas, thoughts to ponder &amp; journal about, etc.<br />Other than that, the book was excellent, and the point was well &amp; deeply made on the very 1st page. I can't say that it really made a huge difference in my self-worth though...The ideas are great, but it is not easy for people to connect this author's life experience with instant self-worth, to their own lives of feeling lower than a sidewalk curb. For this book is actually the touching story of one man's experience with trying to regain his self-worth. He believes because he did it, everyone else can. The problem is, he didn't give any real direction as to how to do the same. Instead it was more like one long pep talk, which has never worked before, doubt it will start now.<br />We all know that one true believable compliment can't erase in our minds anyway, a lifetime of messages telling us the opposite about ourselves...If Selby had included a work book asking &quot;what were the lies about yourself that you heard growing up &amp; believed?&quot; and other such questions, maybe his book would have helped me and others who need more than another meaningless pep talk. I'm happy the author found happiness &amp; fulfillment, of course, but am disappointed that his promise was empty--I didn't get self worth NOW out of this book. Still, it is a keeper, I've written in all the margins, and am sure I will refer back to it again a bit further along my current journey to inner healing.	2001-03-29
US	51046735	R1311VO69J63DW	1558740422	485262993	A Gift to Myself: A Personal Workbook and Guide to "Healing the Child Within"	Books	5	174	176	N	Y	Thank God for this book	My only complaint is that I had hoped to relieve all my internal emotional pain quickly, like by this weekend, and instead find it will take years! Whitfield recommends working this book over a 2-5 year time period, and my heart sank at the thought of hurting for that much longer! I now see that recovery is a process &amp; there's no instant fix. It took all my life to make me this screwed up, no one could begin to fix my life overnight!<br />I started the book last month and left off at chapter 3. What I learned in Chapter 2 has taken me a month so far just to internalize it all, because I found that every aspect of my life is ruled by numerous fears! No wonder I am miserable &amp; stuck! Some of the fears were ideas I had never considered for myself &amp; now that Whitfield's questionnaire has so clearly pointed them out, I know they are ALL true for me. I instantly started feeling a bit of relief that finally, someone knows what the hell they are talking about &amp; that I can trust that Whitfield won't take advantage of my vulnerability to feed me trash. I am slowly able to let go of more &amp; more knowing I have this companion workbook to help me every step of the way, from recognizing the fears that sabotage my life &amp; happiness, to discovering all of the many losses I never knew to grieve, to guiding me gently into that healthy necessary grief without fear of losing control of my emotions. I trust the process outlined in this workbook &amp; know it to be the most valuable workbook I have ever &amp; will ever, buy! If it had cost $100 it would have been worth every penny, luckily it was around $10. What a bargain for finally knowing all of the answers to the nagging doubts that have plagued me all of my 37 years. It was that voice, MY inner child, deep inside, begging to be recognized, begging to be loved &amp; given a hug, wanting badly to come out &amp; play &amp; get some sun on her beautiful face.<br />Do yourself a favor, get this book! If you ONLY do chapter TWO it will be worth the price! I don't believe anyone can discover that many truths as in Ch. 2, and then ignore it and put this book down. I could guarantee that for any one who comes to this book open-minded &amp; really ready to find out why they are so miserable, you will finally breathe a true sign of relief &amp; know you're in the right place &amp; that your misery is temporary. Inside you is the source of great happiness, fulfillment, imagine never being lonely or empty again! Imagine knowing everything you need to know when you need to know it, and realizing the source of this wisdom resides inside your self right now? Wow. Get it, work it, and finally, heal your wounded inner self &amp; let the gorgeous real you come out &amp; shine.chapter TWO it will be worth the price! I don't believe anyone can discover that many truths as in Ch. 2, and then ignore it and put this book down. I could guarantee that for any one who comes to this book open-minded &amp; really ready to find out why they are so miserable, you will finally breathe a true sign of relief &amp; know you're in the right place &amp; that your misery is temporary. Inside you is the source of great happiness, fulfillment, imagine never being lonely or empty again! Imagine knowing everything you need to know when you need to know it, and realizing the source of this wisdom resides inside your self right now? Wow. Get it, work it, and finally, heal your wounded inner self &amp; let the gorgeous real you come out &amp; shine.	2001-03-29
US	51046735	R3FQLRMLULXDNA	0871161885	761295298	The Writer's Handbook	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Barely any markets listed	I was deeply disappointed when I received this book, for one thing I had mistaken it for the Writer's Digest Markets which always satisfies with thousands of real markets and all the info one needs to sell their work.<br />Not so with Writer's Handbook--it is more concerned with telling you HOW to write! Telling the obvious &amp; calling it helpful. It only includes 3000 markets at best (and repeats quite a few which would probably cut the 3000 almost in half). So if you need to know how to write, this might help, if you want to know WHERE TO SELL, this is NOT the book for you. Instead try Writer's Market 2001.	2001-03-08
US	51046735	R3ILOT33II87QR	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A rip-roaring intimate, learning adventure	Ever since I was 12 years old, I've wanted to BE Stephen King--not him so much as a writer like him, exactly. I have always loved his writing style, and his every-day-people characterizations, but mostly I get lost in the story--which is just what he wants!<br />&quot;On Writing&quot; was like peeping through his windows &amp; seeing the REAL Stephen King, and being almost unable to believe anyone that rich &amp; famous could be so humble, so normal &amp; REAL, unpretentious and intimate. Somewhere after age 12 I gave up my writing dream, but it's always simmered at the back of my mind. I keep bringing it out, polishing it a bit, stuffing it away until a &quot;better&quot; time. Well, there's no better time than NOW, an hour every day writing towards my dream instead of dealing with email or surfing, I have all the tools &amp; now On Writing gave me the motivation &amp; inspiration I needed to follow my dream. Technically the book is an easy, intimate &amp; VERY personal read, King spills the beans on just about every aspect of his life, and includes the horrific story of his near-fatal accident &amp; how this book almost never came to be. I read the 1st part with relish &amp; much belly jiggling laughter that had non-writers lined up to read it after me. I read part 2 with a highlighter &amp; confess I went overboard, so much juicy knowledge for the reader to take &amp; use! It seems he gave up all his secrets but I bet there are a few he kept secret, though I couldn't even guess what they are. The 3rd part I read with a tissue nearby, highlighter long gone, like having a deeply personal discussion with a close friend and mentor.<br />I recommend this book to potential or existing writers definitely AND to non-writers alike! If you're like me, always curious about the man behind the book, you will NOT be disappointed &amp; maybe like me, you'll find a new respect for what some just call another horror author. King is anything but just another...anything.	2001-03-08
US	51046735	R2S5BC3S207EGY	0809225131	464742094	Should I Stay Or Go? : How Controlled Separation (CS) Can Save Your Marriage	Books	4	137	150	N	Y	Great 4 back-up plan	I bought this book as if looking for permission to do what I thought I wanted to do. I ate it up, because it gives such clear directions--with thorough explanations of every term or idea with case studies &amp; every-day real-life examples. It is so fair to both parties in a relationship that my husband--who had fought this trongly--was willing to accept it, discuss it (!!!), and even plan a date that was more financially feasible for this to work!<br />Meanwhile I have a therapist who against all ethical rules of her profession, keeps interjecting her opinion &amp; retracting it (one week she TELLS me to leave the guy, the next week she's ok that I didn't, adding to my confusion!), making my stuckness even worse. I'm stuck still, after reading this book, because my husband took me seriously when he saw this book on the coffee table every night, obviously well read, ear marked, highlighted, etc. LOL<br />NOW he's listening, NOW he's paying attention &amp; changing the harmful behaviors I could not live with. This book still sits there on the coffee table, the contract still sits on my computer hard drive where I saved &quot;our&quot; version &amp; it is all ready to use at a moment's notice. This makes it easier to take one last look at the possibility of staying together.<br />The sample contract is in the front of the book--the rest of the book explains how the contract works. Each couple can customize the contract specifically for their own issues--but the reason the rating is a 4 instead of a flat out 5 is that it does NOT include sample contracts for different situations, nor examples of how to fill out the contract specifically. Still, it gives enough information that couples could choose to do this easily without a therapist's guidance if desired, and in case that worked better for him &amp; I to do this on our own (without my therapist making it worse with her own issues projected into ours).<br />We're both discovering our dysfunctional family roots &amp; the damage caused in our childhood from abuse, neglect, being forced to create false selves because our real one's weren't acceptable to our mentally sick parents. This journey is bringing us together in a healing way to change our self-defeating behaviors. I chose him because of a sick part of myself just as he chose me for his own sick reasons. Now we're rooting out those issues &amp; have hope. It ALL started with THIS book, as we both knew if we split there would be no coming back.<br />Good luck on your journey &amp; if you too are stuck &amp; can't decide because one day your SO is being great but most days suck, this book gives you the clear directions you need to get UN-stuck, however that may work out for YOU. And if a separation IS in the picture, this is the fairest version going to keep you (or create) advocates instead of adversaries.he damage caused in our childhood from abuse, neglect, being forced to create false selves because our real one's weren't acceptable to our mentally sick parents. This journey is bringing us together in a healing way to change our self-defeating behaviors. I chose him because of a sick part of myself just as he chose me for his own sick reasons. Now we're rooting out those issues &amp; have hope. It ALL started with THIS book, as we both knew if we split there would be no coming back.<br />Good luck on your journey &amp; if you too are stuck &amp; can't decide because one day your SO is being great but most days suck, this book gives you the clear directions you need to get UN-stuck, however that may work out for YOU. And if a separation IS in the picture, this is the fairest version going to keep you (or create) advocates instead of adversaries.	2001-03-07
US	51046735	R2J4PPDTSVGU7A	0671025333	277781592	Empty Promises	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Captivating as always, but...	She included a shorter version of the book &quot;Possession&quot; which I also just bought and am disappointed that I already know the whole story since it was covered in great detail in THIS book. Of course, her synopsis is only the size of a small chapter (30+ pages I believe) while the book goes into massive detail.<br />This book, like all of her true crime series novels, delivers a wallop that makes one look over their shoulders more often, or take sideways peeks at the people we know, thinking &quot;Nooo they couldn't be, I'd know&quot;. We'd like to think we know those we love &amp; trust, but if anything else, Rule reminds us in gory detail just how little we know about people close to us. When I read a book like this I have to follow it with something funny or I'd be depressed.<br />I prefer these true crime series novels to her one-subject-one-case novels, which including over-kill on the details &amp; made slogging through it to get to the important details, a chore. None of her true crime combination novels with one primary story followed by several shorter cases, have ever been a chore. I hope she sticks with this format for a long time to come.<br />On a side note, &quot;Possession&quot; is turning out to be a nail-biting page turner! Guess she finally figured out how to edit out the boring endless useless details she used to include. In this book however, skip the same story by another name if you plan to read Possession, otherwise it might ruin the story for you as it did me.	2001-03-07
US	51046735	R3IO1R1OC7HZU4	1558740422	485262993	A Gift to Myself: A Personal Workbook and Guide to "Healing the Child Within"	Books	4	81	84	N	Y	Slow-healing COMPANION workbook	I, as usual, had looked for a quick fix, meaning I bought the workbook without the original book (or ever having read it). Years ago I was skeptical about this &quot;weird&quot; child within stuff. Now I am convinced it is the key to my happiness &amp; recovery that I start listening &amp; paying attention! I have finished the 1st 2 chapters &amp; I must say I learned more in those 2 chapters of this ONE workbook than in all other workbooks I've already completed! And I just started!!! Within the 1st 2 chapters you'll be amazed at how much your life is ruled by FEAR! Of everything! I was amazed at how much I &quot;knew&quot; but didn't KNOW until I was asked directly--then bing! Lights went on &amp; my jaw dropped. No wonder I'm making myself miserable!!!<br />I am a bit disappointed that the author recommends stretching this book out over 18 MONTHS, or even 5 years! Yikes! I can't wait that long to feel good about me. :(  I'll work it quicker because I've been through 12 step programs, therapy, support groups, even earned a Bachelors in Psychology trying to fix myself &amp; my family--or understand it all. None of that helped as much as those 1st two chapters of this book--so far! It will take me weeks just to journal what the author brought up from within my depths, previously UN-touched by therapy, psyche degree, AA &amp; Alanon--then I can hopefully go on to chapter 3...He's right, this may take awhile &amp; I AM WORTH IT, as are YOU.<br />Still, I put it down mainly to order the original book, Healing the Child Within, so I can read it before picking the workbook up again. I suggest you get the original book first.<br />The best part is, my husband &amp; I were facing separation &amp; divorce (I devoured &quot;Should I Stay or Should I Go;How Controlled Separation can Save Your Marriage&quot; that's how close we are)--now he wants his OWN workbook! He's finally willing to face his past which was crippling us as much as my past was making me try to fix him whileignoring my own issues. I have been diagnosed several times starting at age 12, with PTSD from the severe traumatic child abuse, torture, sexual violence (the rapes started at age 4 &amp; the last one was 2 years ago, I'm 37), it's a very sad story but real &amp; my mistake was thinking I could heal all of that on one round of therapy a few years ago. I hated finding myself right back here again, still sick &amp; hurting (literally ill with so many diseases, pain disorders &amp; such I lost count), still in crappy relationships that abuse and hurt me while I keep trying to take control &amp; responsibility for everyone else--but me. <br />After only 2 chapters I know this book is where I need to be (and wish I'd found years ago!) and if it takes a little time, the journey is well worth it with such a worthy companion as this set of books. BTW, I'm still trying to find LIVE support for this, they have AA and Alanon, which I don't fit, and I can't find CoDa or ACOA anywhere in southern Maine (if in Maine at all). I know from experience it takes more than working in isolation to heal the open wounds this book will deal with. Feel free to email me if you too are on that journey, maybe we could start one of our own. :)<br />Many paths, same journey.	2001-03-07
US	51046735	R24XXOYX3PXVNO	155874259X	857219398	Boundaries and Relationships: Knowing, Protecting and Enjoying the Self	Books	3	171	188	N	Y	Lacking substance	I had expected from this book on setting Bondaries in relationships, at least an example of exactly how one does that. Not once does the author give step by step examples or instructions on how to set a boundary. I believe in the entire 234 pages (before I got to the appendix on using psychic abilities??? No idea why that's in there!) he only used 3 ambiguous case stories which rarely proved a point or educated.<br />The most annoying intrusion into my book-buyer's boundary of not being advertised &amp; spammed to in a book I've paid for, was on almost everyone of those 234 pages, he plugs ALL of his other books. Instead of explaining his point he would say &quot;refer to chapter whatever of his other book(s) #1-#5). In one chapter he actually used a big topic heading only to write below, for this topic see such &amp; such of my other books! So he expects me to buy ALL of his books in order to read THIS book.<br />He also repeats himself over &amp; over, which seems like he is trying to fill blank space just to meet a quota since none of the repititions were needed to prove a point &amp; instead felt intrusive &amp; unnecessary to the point of irritation. As one other reviewer said already, he also hasn't decided who his audience is &amp; tries to write to both at once, failing to reach anyone by alienating the reader.<br />I gave this book a 3 because the ideas the author expressed were useful &amp; mostly on target and applicable. His theories deserve attention &amp; expansion, and this book will at least be helpful in illuminating the need for healthy boundaries.	2001-01-30
US	51046735	RMR957JZRWKE1	0844200220	939783882	Writing Erotic Fiction: And Getting Published (Teach Yourself)	Books	3	27	29	N	Y	Disappointing, Misleading	This book was hard to rate. When I 1st opened it's stiff pages for just a peek before bed, I found myself still engulfed an hour later. Yet I felt deep disappointment.<br />I have been writing short-story porn-erotica for a few years, successfully. What I had hoped to glean from this book were the nitty gritty details of actually getting published, as the title clearly promises. I looked for the all important contract examples, publisher contacts (at the very least addresses to write for guidelines) &amp; sources with addresses for publishing short-story erotica. None of these promised components were included in this book! I'm not sure how the author can justify his claims to helping anyone &quot;get published&quot; through this book.<br />If you already know how to write, skip this book &amp; find one that includes publisher information at the very least. This author's excuse for not including the vital information for which I bought this book, was that guidelines change quickly. This doesn't excuse the fact that addresses of publishing houses rarely change so quickly &amp; should have been included so that writers could request the latest guidelines. Instead I am left to either search for another book that delivers the information it promises to, or do the research on my own.<br />I didn't need to buy or read this book to learn how to write erotica (although I am always open to learning new techniques), nor to read the obvious well-known industry tidbits. Almost everything in this book was useless to a writer who actually wants to publish their work.<br />As to the writing style, I find no fault. This book is an easy, quick read with writing exercises at the end of each chapter. It does very briefly (less than a paragraph each) cover such issues as using a pseudonym &amp; literary agents but again, writers are expected to find the actual information on their own. This book does NOT provide ANY actual information on how to get published. I truly feel that the title is misleading, false advertisement.<br />I wanted to give this book a 5 rating but obviously it doesn't deliver the goods, which would place it at a 2 rating in my opinion. The reason I rated it a 3: for people who don't know anything about writing erotica, Writing Erotic Fiction : And Getting Published (Teach Yourself) by Mike Bailey, will at least get you started.tle is misleading, false advertisement. <br />I wanted to give this book a 5 rating but obviously it doesn't deliver the goods, which would place it at a 2 rating in my opinion. The reason I rated it a 3: for people who don't know anything about writing erotica, Writing Erotic Fiction : And Getting Published (Teach Yourself) by Mike Bailey, will at least get you started.	2000-12-06
US	51046735	R2MH0F2EHOWS6M	0451165225	133720379	How to Be An Assertive (Not Agressive) Woman (Not Aggressive Woman in Life, in Love, and on the Job : The Total Guide to Self-Assertiveness)	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	Overall best timeless classic!	I first &quot;did&quot; this book many years ago, when I had no self-esteem at all and was known for being aggressive &amp; dominant, not to mention manipulative. How else did women get anything?<br />I was amazed with this book, I did all the quizzes which were extremely enlightening &amp; helpful, I made notes in the margins &amp; wrote all over it, carrying it around like a bible, literally referring to it in some situations. It took less than 6 months to totally change my entire life--because of this book! It is that powerful! It helped me get out of abusive relationships, to break the self-destructive patterns, and to like myself.<br />Over the years I became ill with chronic invisible pain &amp; diaseases that destroyed my self-esteem once again, I had somehow forgotten all I had learned. So I just bought a new copy &amp; it is still the best how-to book on assertiveness I've ever used. Every woman owes it to herself to at least read this book, even if you don't see yourself in it, you might see a friend or family member that you can pass it on to.	2000-11-02
US	51046735	RWSBA4CZCAH4C	0393311546	271134477	Sick and Tired of Feeling Sick and Tired: Living With Invisible Chronic Illness	Books	5	112	117	N	Y	Even my Dr. wants to read it!	Hello, I have been diagnosed with several &quot;invisible&quot; chronic  illnesses, meaning the symptoms are subjective for the most part and hard  for others to &quot;see&quot; my pain and illness, therefore it is hard to  get the support I need.<br />This book totally understands my experience, it  validates every thing that has happened since I was diagnosed, and it helps  me get the support I need. It is also excellent to give to others who you  want to understand what you're going through. After reading this book, it  will be impossible for anyone to ever say again &quot;but you LOOK  good&quot;.<br />I had an appt. with a doctor the other day and he saw the  book in my hand and asked to look at it. He asked my opinion on it and said  he had heard it was a great book. So I of course gushed on and on about it,  how the authors truly understand the effects if ICI on our self-esteem,  self-concept, the guilt and shame, the frustrations, the lack of support  and the suspicion we are often confronted with because our symptoms are not  visible (we don't have a wheel chair or a cane, or an easily recognizable  condition). So he's going to buy it so he can understand what his patients  are going through and be more helpful to them!<br />Next I am passing this  book onto my husband, might buy a few copies for relatives for Christmas  and sending the link to the members of my chronic pain support group. Pass  the word, this is the book that will finally change how the world responds  to us.	2000-08-23
US	51046735	R1WVUT5NUW9HVZ	091242320X	635275320	Beyond Chaos: One Man's Journey Alongside His Chronically Ill Wife	Books	5	68	69	N	Y	Every Partner Needs this Book!	Hello, I have numerous chronic illness and pain problems and am finding it  very hard to get support because many of my symptoms are subjective or  &quot;invisible&quot;. I have FMS, MPS, CFS, DDD, Bulging discs and  numerous spinal problems, plus chronic pain syndrome. My only support is my  husband and he's still in the denial stages, so I picked up this book for  HIM. I read it 1st and put tiny little notes in the margin for him. The  book is separated into 4 sections and each section has suggested very  helpful exercises for the reader. It teaches communication and  strengthening of the marriage, this book shows how one can be supportive  without using the usual patient/caretaker roles that can be demeaning and  frustrating to both. I read the book in 2 days and I highly recommend it to  the partner of anyone suffering any chronic condition (and also to the  person suffering as well). The book is thoroughly honest and open about the  total experience of dealing with a partner, accepting the losses and  grieving the way your partner used to be then appreciating the person your  partner is now.  It is the only book of this kind available and even if  there were 50 like it, this one would be at the top of the list.	2000-08-23
US	51046735	R61OIIAN7O4N2	0385324138	425535400	The Outlandish Companion	Books	5	130	135	N	Y	Gabaldon Can't write Fast enough for me	I was introduced to the Outlander series by my husband. I had never read this type of fiction before. I must say that I am now hooked and am probably now ruined for any less talented writer's of this genre. I was  instantly transported to another time, I could smell and see and hear right  along with the main characters. Gabaldon's ability for fine detail is  unmatched! As a writer myself, her books have motivated me, impressed and  awed me.  At 1st I wasn't sure if I wanted to commit myself to the time it  would take to read four 800+ page novels, knowing there wasn't an end to  them. Now I am happy to have been introduced to Claire and Jamie Fraser and  will never forget these 2 characters.  I know Gabaldon can't rush her  books, which is why I say, she can't write fast enough for me. I eagerly  await her continuation of this series.<br /><br />About the actual book: it's fascinatingly full of little known facts about herbs, medical knowledge through time, pretty much most of the author's research is in this companion, anything you ever wanted to know & a few things you didn't know you were missing or wanted to know. For true fans of this series, you'll want this book for the behind the scenes details that the 800+ page books didn't include (her original manuscripts were often 1500 pages & broken up into 2 instead). While you're waiting for the next book to come out, or if you need a refresher on the last title before reading the next, this is a great read either way. The book is an oversized hardcover of sturdy construction, meant to last through many, many thumb through's.	2000-02-08
US	51046735	RI06TYDTMHOMX	0684850303	599064011	Dangerous Kiss (A Lucky Santangelo Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Her Best Ever! Wish it never ended!	All I can say is, there better be a sequel! This has to be the best she's ever written and I was riveted, reading this through within 24 hours! This was her 1st novel that truly impressed me. I have been reading her boks for  years, can't resist. Her style has definitely improved over time.	1999-09-22
