US	51042634	R32HA6BTNEIPNZ	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Sobering Account Of A Ticket-Puncher In Vietnam	2004 being an election year, it was natural that books about candidates would come out in quantity.  For US Senator John Forbes Kerry, coverage by the mainstream press has been generally positive, and books about his career have been sparse. <br /> <br />John C. O'Neill, however, is someone who has something sobering to say about Kerry.  A Swiftboat skipper who served alongside Kerry, O'Neill served a full 12-month tour, and commanded Swiftboats in the same region as Kerry.  The senator has made his service in Vietnam a linchpin of his candidacy as opposed to stressing a mediocre 20-year record in the Senate involving some crucial position changes.  During the Democratic convention he had several crewmates vouch for his bravery and leadership.  However, John C. O'Neill has credentials in that area that make him more relevent to comment on Kerry's service.   <br /> <br />Kerry acolytes predictably scream that O'Neill's book Unfit For Command is false because of funding for its publication.  The accusation on credibility, however, backfires, for O'Neill's clash with Kerry dates back to 1971 and a now-famous debate on Dick Cavett's television show (transcripted at the book's website) where Kerry's serial accusation about Vietnam atrocities by Americans was refuted point by point by O'Neill, and an audience intially sympathetic to Kerry gradually turned against him.   <br /> <br />There are other angles that help the book's credibility, namely Kerry's own admissions over the years about his Vietnam service. By his own admission he repeatedly rammed the Swiftboat he commanded onto shore and indiscriminately fired away; in one famous incident a Red soldier with a rocket launcher was hit by .50-caliber fire; Kerry beached the boat, ran after the dying Red soldier, shot and killed him, and came back with the launcher.  One need not have seen combat to see the huge flaws in Kerry's judgement here - ramming a Swiftboat ashore is by definition poor planning and judgement; it only happens in movies - and killing a wounded man is a court-martialable offense.  It also adds insight into Kerry's comments over the years about Vietnam's free-fire zones, because what emerges is that Kerry had little clue how actual free-fire zone tactics worked; they did not involve indiscriminate bombardment.   <br /> <br />And then there is the foreshortened nature of Kerry's service in Vietnam.  After receiving three injuries - none of which required hospitalization or even time lost on duty - Kerry was transferred out of the Vietnam theater.  The insight the book adds to this is that several of Kerry's fellow skippers demanded he be transferred because they had tired of dealing with him.   <br /> <br />The book had an effect on the 2004 campaign in that it exposed as false a long-running Kerry claim to have fought in Cambodia in December 1968, a central assertion by Kerry because it illustrated his disillusionment with the war.  Trouble is the US never got involved in Cambodia until 1969, and lost in that angle of the debate is that the Soviet-backed North Vietnamese had garrissoned eastern Cambodia with Vietcong forces since the 1950s, using the region as a safe haven from which to attack; Kerry's attitude apparantly ignored this little factoid. <br /> <br />In their Dick Cavett debate O'Neill accused Kerry of maneuvering to run for public office.  Kerry denied it then, but a year afterward he was running for US Congress, only to lose.  More recently Kerry changed his position on the US liberation of Iraq in much the same manner.  Thus does this book offer a far more sobering and credible account of a major political figure than his acolytes would care to admit.	2004-08-21
US	51042634	R3PR9PAVCSPNR0	078671378X	376587747	The Politics of Truth: Inside the Lies that Led to War and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir	Books	1	40	123	N	N	Wilson's Literary Flair Over Honesty And "Truth"	There is a cliche, \\"The bigger they are, the harder they fall,\\" but it isn't often that a book or its author lives up it. A book becomes a cause celebre of enormous intensity and its author becomes feted and even given awards considered of grave importance, only to see outside investigation so thoroughly destroy an author's credibility that the man's extensive media blitz becomes a source of embarassment.<br /><br />Such is the case of former ambassador Joseph Wilson, featured on just about every talk show and news show in the US since mid-2003, most notably in several appearences on Comedy Central. Wilson's celebrity emenated from his role in investigating Saddam Hussein's acquisitions of weapons-grade uranium from Africa, specifically Niger.<br /><br />In May 2004 he released his book repeating allegations he'd made in serial fashion to anyone who would listen regarding the Bush Administration's justification for overthrowing Saddamite Iraq and transforming it into a quasi-demilitarized democracy. Wilson's book centers on the allegation made in its subtitle, an allegation he had made for nearly two years before publication.<br /><br />His immediate focus was on his much-publicized trip to Niger to investigate allegations that Saddam Hussein's Iraq had sought to acquire weapons-grade uranium there. He repeats in the book claims that he had found that Iraq had made no such effort and has repeatedly cited a batch of forged documents as proof of such.<br /><br /> Never mind that these documents ultimately were not relevent to anything and ignored by the Administration in any event, and this even before the Senate Intelligence Committee found in investigation of Wilson that his use of this batch of forged documents in his media blitz was falsification of the actual truth about Iraq's search for weapons-grade uranium. Wilson's book also ignores the over 500 tons of weapons-grade uranium the US found in Iraq since the defeat of Saddam Hussein, some of which came from Niger.<br /><br /> Wilson's credibility, and thus the credibility of his book, thus take a major hit, and it gets worse for Wilson because the thrust of his argument is wrong. The case for war in Iraq was based, among other things, on years of well-documented serial rearmament by Iraq and building of unconventional weapons; as the Senate Intelligence Committee put it, \\"for most analysts, the former ambassador's report (in 2002) lent more, not less, credibility to the reported Iraq-Niger uranium deal.\\"<br /><br /> Like others, Wilson ignores the massive Iraqi masquerade campaign built into their unconventional weapons programs, a campaign of hiding that took on an almost surreal aspect when the war actually began; as UNMOVIC, the body tasked with monitoring and investigating Iraq's nuclear and chemical weapons programs, would report in June 2004, before and when the US attacked Iraq, the Iraqis tore up WMDs they didn't already ship to Syria beforehand and dispersed them.  Some were shipped as scrap metal around the world, with missile parts complete with UN-issued inspection tags turning up in Holland and Turkey; the Iraqis also made a specific effort to destroy computer evidence relating to their WMD programs, and even inspector David Kay acknowledged the enormity of Iraqi efforts to destroy evidence - which begs the obvious question of the purpose involved if Iraq supposedly had no WMDs.<br /><br /> Wilson goes especially berserk over journalist Robert Novak because Novak first reported that Wilson was recommended for the job of going to Niger by his wife, CIA analyst Valerie Plame. The Senate report proves beyond any doubt that Novak was correct in his reporting and it was Plame who made Wilson's involvement in this whole matter possible, which makes utter nonsense of Wilson's self-serving claim that as the mother of \\"two screaming 2-year-olds\\" it would \\"defy logic\\" that she would do such a thing.  Just why Wilson and his media acolytes have been so upset over this episode has become a little clearer as time has gone on, as parts of the CIA, embarassed because they so often underestimated Iraq's WMD programs and appeared to miss entirely how thoroughly Saddamite Iraq could hide its programs, have been engaged in the old campaign of Cover Your Butt - CYA for short - and Plame's role in this CYA effort with Wilson as errand boy have gotten more notice as 2005 has gone on.<br /><br /> The whole point of Wilson's book and supporting media blitz is to attack the Bush Administration for going to war, and nowhere does Wilson or anyone else of his ilk offer any kind of believable alternative to going to war. \\"The former Ambassador, either by design or through ignorance, gave the American people and, for that matter, the world a version of events that was inaccurate, unsubstantiated, and misleading,\\" noted the Senate Intelligence Committee's conclusion of its look at Wilson.  Even a former ally, the Washington Post, had to editorialize in 2006 that Wilson had lied through his teeth about everything he'd ever done in relation to Iraq.  This succictly summarizes the complete lack of credibility that Wilson's book contains.gone on, as parts of the CIA, embarassed because they so often underestimated Iraq's WMD programs and appeared to miss entirely how thoroughly Saddamite Iraq could hide its programs, have been engaged in the old campaign of Cover Your Butt - CYA for short - and Plame's role in this CYA effort with Wilson as errand boy have gotten more notice as 2005 has gone on.       The whole point of Wilson's book and supporting media blitz is to attack the Bush Administration for going to war, and nowhere does Wilson or anyone else of his ilk offer any kind of believable alternative to going to war. \\"The former Ambassador, either by design or through ignorance, gave the American people and, for that matter, the world a version of events that was inaccurate, unsubstantiated, and misleading,\\" noted the Senate Intelligence Committee's conclusion of its look at Wilson.  Even a former ally, the Washington Post, had to editorialize in 2006 that Wilson had lied through his teeth about everything he'd ever done in relation to Iraq.  This succictly summarizes the complete lack of credibility that Wilson's book contains.	2004-07-26
US	51042634	R1FXD20F7XMXLN	1893618226	55152120	Cheating: An Inside Look at the Bad Things Good NASCAR Winston Cup Racers Do in Pursuit of Speed	Books	3	46	53	N	N	Intriguing Look At Illegalities Within NASCAR	Tom Jensen authors this overdue look at the &#34;black art&#34; of cheating in NASCAR, and along the way manages a decent job of seperating fact from fiction. He delves into the acts of cheating in the sport from its beginnings (when apparant Grand National winner Glenn Dunaway was disqualified and the race win went to Jim Roper) through the 1990s into the 21st century.  Three cheating scandals stand out here, and all three involve teams owned by Junior Johnson.  If there is a theme to this book, it is that Junior Johnson was the sport's least honest team owner and the one who always seemed to get benefit of the doubt.  The first was the 1973 National 500 at Charlotte. Cale Yarborough won the race, but his car and second-place Richard Petty were protested by Bobby Allison.  An extremely long tear-down took place, and NASCAR ultimately said the race results would stand - which led Allison to file a lawsuit against NASCAR, because there was evidence that Cale's Chevrolet, wrenched by Johnson, ran some 70 cubic inches more than allowed by the rules.  If there is an eye-opener in this book, it is the admission by Junior's engine builder at the time, Robert Yates, that that particular engine and others built for Junior were indeed illegal; Yates states it measured 500 CID, versus the 431 limit of the time.  Actually, though, Yates' admission isn't a surprise, as former crew chief J.C. &#34;Jake&#34; Elder stated in several 1990s interviews that Junior's crew chief Herb Nab acknowledged to him that Junior usually ran illegal displacement in his engines.  The second involves the infamous &#34;Pettygate&#34; Charlotte race of 1983.  Jensen doesn't delve into any new ground here, which is a shortfall, because there was more to that scandal than is usually acknowledged.  Petty's team had won twice in 1983 but had struggled against Johnson and also the DiGard Racing team headed by Gary Nelson (and powered by Yates) in horsepower (Jensen deals at insufficient length with cheating by Gary Nelson with DiGard and other teams elsewhere in the book), and Maurice Petty built (and readily acknowledged after the race) a 381 CID engine.  What is underappreciated is that Petty beat Junior's driver Darrell Waltrip - because Waltrip backed off in Turn Two and let Petty take a big lead.  There was speculation then and later that Waltrip was also running more CID than allowed, and given Yates' and Herb Nab's admissions there is no reason not to believe that Waltrip usually ran illegal displacement.  It is a shame because it tarnishes the accomplishments of Waltrip (a great driver despite also being overrated as such) and also Cale Yarborough (a superior driver incapable of being overrated), who won the majority of his races (55 of 83 career wins) and all three of his titles in Johnson racecars.  It also puts a period to NASCAR's long-running practice of being more nitpicky to certain teams over others (notably Johnson's), notably Petty Enterprises, Wood Brothers Racing, Ranier Racing, Bill Elliott's racing team, Hoss Ellington Racing (whose owner cheated mostly for fun and readily admitted such), and (somewhat ironic given how much success they enjoyed) DiGard Racing (one of the most revealing such episodes involved Bumpergate at Daytona in 1982; NASCAR made Gary Nelson lower the rear bumper on the DiGard car to increase drag; Nelson angrilly had it slapped on with insecure fasteners to fall off on the track; he denies that he had it deliberately slapped on to fall off during a race, but there is no reason to believe him); this nitpickery practice does continue today, though at a far less blatant level.  Another who got a lot more than his fair share of NASCAR nitpickery was Harry Hyde, whose cars won the 1970 title with Bobby Isaac and whose cars were regularly torn down more thoroughly than most, such as in the scandal-plagued '73 National 500; Hyde's car was torn down four times during the weekend and when NASCAR demanded another teardown, he refused and was disqualified.  Hyde also got swept into the Nitrousgate scandal of 1976; after Daytona 500 qualifying his Dodge was found with a moveable flap on the radiator, which allowed air to flow more efficiently and increase aero slickness; the flap met the letter of NASCAR's rulebook but amid the discovery of speed-enhancing nitrous oxide bottles on several cars, NASCAR ruled it didn't meet the spirit.  Nitpickery showed in a later area dealt with by Jensen - the &#34;Tiregate&#34; New Hampshire 300 of late August 1998.  On final stops with some 73 laps to go Jeff Gordon took two tires to the four taken by Mark Martin, John Andretti, and others (this was when tires were much softer and wore more easily than in 2001-2, when Goodyear went with compounds of such hardness that wear became almost impossible); under such circumstances Gordon should have been swamped by cars with four fresh tires, but instead he outpulled the cars on four fresh tires and easily won a race he had not run all that competitively in throughout that day.  Jensen details the inaccuracy of claims by Jack Roush of chemical treatment of tires by Ray Evernham, but ignores that this was a red herring to begin with - the real issue being Goodyear playing favorites on tires, a practice angrilly noted a year later by team owner Andy Petree in a spat over lack of access to Goodyear tires for much-needed test sessions, and also briefly discussed by Geoff Bodine in Shaun Assael's superb NASCAR book &#34;Wide Open: Days & Nights On The NASCAR Trail.&#34;  The third big scandal discussed in the book was Jimmy Spencer's two restrictor plate victories of 1994; once again, we have a cheating scandal involving Junior Johnson racecars.  In fairness to Spencer, comments about his ability by Jeff Gordon's stepdad John Bickford (made in naturally fawning comparison to Gordon's ability) are a little out of line, as Spencer had shown superb drafting ability years earlier in Travis Carter's Chevrolet and showed it again in Dick Moroso's Grand National Ford, Travis Carter's Winston-sponsored Fords, and James Finch's Grand National Pontiacs.  Regardless, it should be clear that Spencer's two Winston Cup wins were achieved with an illegal restrictor plate manifold; that it could have escaped NASCAR pre-race inspection is not as difficult as Jensen implies at points, given the ingenuity of raceteams.  One area where Jensen could have set the record straight but does not even discuss is suspicion about the 1984 Firecracker 400.  During &#34;The Call&#34; mini-controversy of 1995 there was some question about the legality of Richard Petty's 200th win, about how the engine supposedly was over the limit on displacement. There ought to be no question about the legality of that win or all but one or two other Petty wins, given how NASCAR scrutinized his cars more than most, how Petty did not show more horsepower than race favorite Cale Yarborough (Petty won on superior handling and the car's better drafting ability; Cale's Ranier Chevrolets of the time were noticeably inferior in handling than Petty's Pontiacs or Bobby Allison's Buicks), and also how the Pettys had feuded with NASCAR's France family almost from the beginning (Lee Petty losing the 1950 Grand National title on a questionable points penalty), making claims of a &#34;Call&#34; going to him implausible.  Jensen likewise should have noted that in the '73 controversy Petty readily admitted running a mixture of engine cylinders of varying displacements - a few over the legal limit, several well under it, for an average within the rules.  As Bobby Allison himself noted during the Pettygate scandal, &#34;Richard shoots straighter than most.&#34;  In all, though, the book is worth having for providing information on a &#34;black art&#34; in NASCAR racing.  Jensen provides a look at the psychology of cheating when he notes Darrell Waltrip's infamous 1976 quip, &#34;If you don't cheat, you look like an idiot; if you cheat and don't get caught, you look like a hero; if you cheat and get caught, you look like a dope.&#34;	2002-12-14
US	51042634	R2WIJ7UPFSFQ87	189355435X	96434727	Tilting the Playing Field: Schools, Sports, Sex, and Title IX	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Abolish Title IX	Predictably, Jessica Gavora's attack on the way Title IX has been enforced has been savaged by gender-quota mongers who claim (falsely) that she ignores or fails to refute earlier studies on the subject.  Such counterattacks are to be expected, but they don't do any real damage to the truth.<br />For in the past few years the reality of Title IX has become more graphic and more absurd, to the point where only the above-mentioned gender-quota mongers can deny it.  This is rather amusing, as previous defenders of Title IX such as Donna Lopiano were claiming in the early 1990s that Title IX had done no substantive good, and now boldly assert that the women's World Cup soccer team owes their existence to a law that had nothing to do with players' careers that by 1991 and the first women's World Cup had long blossomed.  <br />The reality that Gavora confronts and which the defenders of Title IX are too dishonest to admit is that the law's only substantive result is the wholesale destruction of men's atheltic programs in the name of gender bean-counting.  The GAO counted the casualties of Title IX - 170 wrestling programs, 80 tennis teams, 70 gym teams, and 45 track teams - all male.<br />The line that infuriates the gender-quota mongers most is Gavora's cut-to-the-chase look at its logic - &quot;the presumption that men and women, boys and girls, are identical in their athletic interests.....&quot;  A casual look at life shows this to be untrue - most girls I see, if they're interested in sports, are into soccer or softball; boys still go for football, basketball, baseball, and hockey.  I regularly go to NASCAR races and males regularly outnumber females in the audience by hefty margins, and female drivers remain an extreme rarity.  <br />So the logic of Title IX in its present form is that there must be as many female athletes per capita at any school as male; if not, that is by definition discrimination.  <br />Lopiano and others counter that colleges put too much intotheir football programs, ignoring the market reality that these are their biggest moneymakers and recruiting areas.  Hostility to the free market seems an inherent staple of such quota-mongers, and the ability of the market to prosper despite efforts to suppress it can only infuriate them all the more.<br />Such pseudo-logic as practiced by Donna Lopiano et al is behind the slaughter of collegiate athletics, a scandal that is recently seeping into national conscious, and of which Jessica Gavora's necessary book offers a strong examination.	2002-06-21
US	51042634	R2L7PDWPVGFLXG	0446526770	242438204	Daytona: From the Birth of Speed to the Death of the Man in Black	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Informative But Flawed Look At The World Center Of Racing	Ed Hinton is an enigma in motorsports journals. He can offer solid, fascinating information. He can also write gratuitous self-serving garbage. All of this comes into his look at Daytona International Speedway.<br />By now the general story of Daytona is well known, and he retells it reasonably well.  Along the way he fleshes out some details, and when he keeps his opinions to himself he can offer fascinating insights.  Some of the information is of the kind that was once known but has been forgotten.<br />It is when Hinton becomes Hinton that the book suffers.  His Chapter 21 contains a lengthy dissertation on Don Williams, a driver gravely injured in the 1979 Sportsman 300 and who suffered the ensuing ten years in a vegatative state before finally passing on in 1989.  The chapter is exploitive and while interesting in its own right nonetheless is used more to bash NASCAR than to serve any legitimate purpose.  When Williams finally died, NASCAR sent flowers - it was the only thing they ever did for him, is the point Hinton wants to make, as if they could realistically have done anything else. Hinton does not come up with any kind of alternative to how they handled it at the time.<br />The book's examination of Jeff Gordon is shallow to the extreme - one gets the impression Hinton would kiss Gordon in the mouth for being such a wonderful human being the way he writes about him.<br />Considerably better is Hinton's less than flattering portrayal of Dale Earnhardt - DE fans remember Hinton's 1995 attack on Earnhardt in Sports Illustrated, and there is a telling anecdote about that and Hinton's relationship with Earnhardt in Paul Hemphill's book Wheels.<br />Hinton's big claim to fame was the Orlando Sentinel's angry four-part series on racing safety published before Earnhardt's death, and he self-congradulatorily rehashes it in the close of the book.  Then and now, his case for head restraints, soft walls, etc. rings a bit hollow given the general safety of the drivers before they ever heard of such. <br />The basic argument is that Earnhardt died of headwhip, but if Earnhardt died of headwhip alone, why did such not happen with Richard Petty in 1986 - if Hinton hasn't seen the incar shot of Petty in that crash, he should, for Richard's head almost went out the right side window, and he didn't suffer terrible injury; similar situations have been the case with Ken Schrader at Daytona in 1998 (Schrader, involved in the Earnhardt crash in 2001, himself has noted he hit the same wall at the same speed at similar angle without injury), Dave Marcis and Rusty Wallace at Pocono in 1999, Gordon at Texas in 1999, and more cases than one can count. <br />Hinton tries to argue that Earnhardt suffered a basilar skull fracture due to headwhip in the millisecond before his belt broke and he struck the steering wheel, but this reeks of implausibility, in part because what is referred to as headwhip is actually head wrenching, and Hinton wisely concedes that striking the wheel would be enough to kill him.  The 2002 accident that left David Pook with a broken vertebra and in need of a halo support, incurred while wearing a HANS in a crash at Phoenix, further weakens the implicit argument that Earnhardt would have survived had NASCAR mandated head restraints, and the death of Southwest Tour driver John Baker destroys the argument totally - Earnhardt would have died with a head restraint all the same.  It is a fact Hinton needs to acknowledge in any future updates.<br />There's also the real story behind Tim Richmond and the 1988 Daytona Clash and how NASCAR was supposedly trying to discredit and humiliate Tim, never mind that Tim's subsequent lawsuit against NASCAR failed precisely because the issue that started it all - NASCAR wanted to see his medical records - was ruled a legitimate issue.  Richmond's problems were self-inflicted and NASCAR really should not shoulder much of any blame.<br />Nor is Hinton's take on restrictor plate racing all that persuasive. He says drivers despise such racing (this is true) because of the lack of throttle response - yet it doesn't occur to him that they race just fine anyway; the whole throttle response issue is ultimately a red herring.<br />Hinton tries to blame lack of throttle response for Richard Petty's famous 1988 tumble at the 500, but throttle response was irrelevent, and that crash also illustrates how seperating the cars on the racetrack, far from offering a safety cushion, in fact makes impacts worse.  Hinton also forgets that restrictor plates debuted in 1970, first hitting Daytona in '71 - a serious oversight as it helps weaken some of the anti-plate arguments made over the years.  Hinton also writes about the 2000-2001 roof spoiler package - by far the most compettively effective aero package ever seen - with contemptible shallowness. <br />In all, the book has far too many flaws to be called a good history, but also has too much interesting information to be dismissed outright. Hinton can be a great writer, but he needs better balance to make his work really worth something.	2001-12-18
US	51042634	R41569AIJV0VP	0891416749	799079744	Ringed in Steel: Armored Cavalry, Vietnam 1967-68	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Superlative Account Of Vietnam 1967-8	Major Mahler served in an Armored cavalry unit in Vietnam before and during the Tet Offensive, and here he relates his experiences during that time.<br />One may not associate armor with Vietnam, but armor did play a significant role in the war, as Major Mahler demonstrates here.<br />The stories within run the gamut, from the Birddog pilot shot down to the discovery of VC grains hidden along a road that the troopers confiscate, only to find that a nearby village gets pillaged by the VC because the grain was hidden along the road for the VC to take; the troopers gather enough grain to give back to the stricken villagers.  There is also the tunnel that an APC falls into - and promptly unearths a surprised NVA general.  There are the running shootouts during the Tet Offensive, and children accidently hit by .50 caliber machine gun fire and operated on by Army medics.  There is the night an enemy company literally walks into an ambush by armor and a delightfully one-sided battle with an NVA batallion holed up in a large village, a battle that somewhat resembles the climax of Invasion USA.<br />There is also Major Mahler's note on the situation on the ground following Tet - of how farmers who could not use roads the year before could now take their crops to market, &quot;and this was progress that could be seen and felt in a war where progress could not easily be quantified.&quot;<br />Major Mahler takes us to Vietnam through his words and we see what went on.	2000-12-26
US	51042634	R1S52LMW1GQYJT	0399146474	241175191	Bump and Run	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Pro Sports' Version Of Paddy Cheyevsky's Network	A player who has legally changed his first name to Nike -<br />Sportsradio station WNUT -<br />The NFL's Los Angeles Bangers -<br />A receiver &quot;good enough to catch all the women Jim Brown threw off the balcony&quot; -<br />Sports Illustrated's Annual Tattoo Issue -<br />A player named Deion fights with a player named Elvis -<br />College players and teams who throw games -<br />A rap star/agent with a posse of men named Denzel and Montel and two rottweilers named Regis and Kathie Lee -<br />A sports memorabilia dealer with the bras of the US Women's Soccer Team (don't ask how he got them) -<br />Two nubile exotic dancers named Venus and Serena -<br />Two female Fox Sports reporters, one of whom is sleeping with the team owner -<br />And in the middle of it all is ne'er-do-well gambler Jack Molloy, who has inherited the NFL's New York Hawks team and finds himself the subject of those who don't want him to own the team - namely EVERYONE.<br />In his tale of owning an NFL team, Mike Lupica brings back memories of the late Paddy Cheyevsky and his best-known work, the quasi-satire Network. Lupica takes all the jerks he's seen in his two-plus decades of sportswriting and puts them together in a quasi-satirical tale of the most intoxicating rich-boy's toy there is in the world - owning an NFL team. The over-the-top quality is readily apparant, but like Cheyevsky's magnum opus of the backstabbing politics of television, Lupica's exaggerations are anything by exaggerated.<br />The best example may be the early scene when The Jammer (Jack Molloy) attends a prizefight between two boxers named TruValue and White Trash that ends in a WWF match, and later Jack attends a party at which are attending a variety of sports/business types, including &quot;the precocious young country singer&quot; who isn't so precocious - I almost choked on my lunch from laughing so hard.<br />If you're in the mood for a Network-flavored satire, Lupica's Bump &amp; Run is a nice place to start.	2000-11-30
US	51042634	R28L1MBKWNHUEF	0812930541	83971876	Herblock: A Cartoonist's Life	Books	1	7	53	N	N	Herblockhead	Herbert Block has been the chief cartoonist for the Washington Post since the latter 1940s, yet viewing his cartoons or reading this autobiography leaves one wondering how he managed to keep that stint for half as long as he has.  <br />Actually, the answer is fairly easy to decifer, yet it has little to do with his drawing.  Certainly his talent for drawing has been oversold over the years, as a view at the cartoons on display in this bio indicates - they show a range of sloppiness, ugliness, and a complete lack of humor that is usually the death-knell of cartoonists.<br />But Herblock, his signature throughout his years, has managed to survive in sizable part due to the tolerance of his newspaper.  Second only to the New York Times as the institution imposing a leftist distortion on world an national news, The Washington Post was a natural home for an artist lacking any respect for subtlety or nuance.  His cartoons' sloppiness and lack of humor would simply not have gotten the longevity they have were it not for the tolerance of his newspaper.  <br />Making it all the worse is the repetition involved.  Block's trademark is the slovenly-looking drawing labeled with idiotically boldfaced capital letters that insult the reader all by themselves.  That it is repetition in the service of leftism insults the reader all the more, and as Russ Braley noted in his study of The New York Times, Herblock's cartoons were usually so insulting and bad that they regularly drew reader complaints.<br />A few choice morsels display Herblock's contempt for reality - a cartoon of a schoolyard of dead children, being surveyed by two smiling National Rifle Association lobbyists; a 1972 cartoon of Vietnamese refugees that falsely blames their fate on American bombing (naturally Block never once showed any interest in the boat people); a few days before the outbreak of the Cuban Missile Crisis is a cartoon showing Kennedy and Khrushchev struggling to keep a nuclear monster in its box - Block should have followed in the ensuing crisis with a cartoon showing himself eating crow for such a wrongheaded display of nonexistent moral equality; a particularly repellent tribute to animator Chuck Jones where the Road Runner is Nicaraguan puppet-dictator Daniel Ortega while Wile E. Coyote is anticommunist Nicaraguan rebels and American backing.<br />Race relations - as always, with the Republicans as the enemy - were often his ugliest subjects, due in large part to his persistent use of crass black stereotypes, a persistence that says more about Block than about Republicans.<br />Block is often credited with inventing the term McCarthyism and the focus of his fire was forever Richard Nixon, yet throughout that time Block could never figure out what was going on.  That his (and others') anger over Nixon was based not on dirty tricks but on Nixon's success in exposing liberalism's tolerance of treason to Soviet Russia is reality that Block would have effectively satirized had he any respect for truth.  Certainly this shows when he blasts the Reagan administration over Iran-Contra yet bends over backwards to create bogus excuses for the Clinton administration's far more serial lawlessness.<br />Cartoonists like Block are the reason why the state of the art of editorial cartoons has been so frustratingly uneven over the years.  He also shows how longevity is not necessarily an accurate gauge of quality.	2000-11-27
US	51042634	R27RIAD4TPD4C7	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	5	41	45	N	N	The Defiant Honesty Of David Schippers	A lifelong Democrat, David Schippers led the Justice Department's Organized Crime and Racketeering Unit under Robert Kennedy during the Johnson Administration before returning to his native Chicago to work as a trial attorney.  During the impeachment proceedings against Bill Clinton Schippers was appointed by Henry Hyde as chief investigative counsel.  <br />It is as such that Schippers witnessed the spectacle of the investigation of Clinton and of the ruthless conspiracy - there is really no better descriptive term - by the White House to obstruct the investigation and hide the truth.  He was also witness to the dishonesty of Congressional Democrats and the appalling timidity of Republicans, who basically fumbled the ball away and thus allowed Clinton et al to escape punishment.<br />Schippers details the real reason for the impeachment of Clinton - his wholesale abuse of power, violations of the Constitution, obstruction of justice, witness tampering, serial perjury and subornation of perjury, and so forth.  Though the basic truth of Clinton's megalomania has been well known for a long time, it is still a stunning revelation when one pores through the record to see just what kind of people Clinton and his acolytes truly are.<br />Schippers notes the wholesale dishonesty of Democrats - he notes how they, often led by the always-obstreperous Barney Frank, not only didn't review the evidence, they didn't even try - Schippers and his staff set up an evidence room stocked with videos, transcripts, etc, and while 65 Republicans entered the room and examined the evidence, not one Democrat did.  They had basically made up their mind to back Clinton regardless of truth.<br />Schippers also details how the Republican leadership sabotaged their own trial by forbidding the calling of live witnesses and by severely limiting how much evidence could be presented - all because of polls showing, thanks to the White House's designated liars, that Ken Starr and company were felt tohave somehow defiled the Constitution.  <br />Schippers notes acidly how even when the Senate was deliberating on whether to convict Clinton, the evidence room was still open, yet none of them, of either party, took the time to look.  It says a lot about just how little integrity there is in modern government.<br />Schippers' book is a necessary corrective to the lies and distortions of those who still want to portray the impeachment as some kind of partisan witch hunt over a &quot;private&quot; sexual misstep, for what is really going on is what Schippers courageously makes clear - the machinations of a President who is nothing but a serial lawbreaker.	2000-10-04
US	51042634	R1ZU87KPTAXS2X	0807043168	949957349	Mobilizing Resentment: Conservative Resurgence from the John Birch Society to the Promise Keepers	Books	1	20	71	N	N	Jean Hardisty Mobilizes Her Own Resentment In Bogus Argument	The American Spectator annually gives out the J. Gordon Coogler Award for a book that insults the intelligence of the reader.  Past winners have  included Anita Hill's pseudo-defense or herself, Jeffrey Toobin's  nauseating &quot;account&quot; of the Clinton scandals, so so forth.<br />How  Jean Hardisty's tome Mobilizing Resentment got overlooked is surprising.   Hardisty promotes an &quot;analysis&quot; of the rise of conservatism in  the latter 20th century and simultaneously attacks it, yet she regularly  misses the mark and in the process demonstrates that her motive toward  writing the book is the very motive she claims to abhor in &quot;the  right.&quot;<br />She begins with the claim that &quot;Anger and intolerance  drive protest movements.&quot;  She makes it out to be that it is  &quot;right wing&quot; anger and resentment that is the problem, citing the  destruction of the Murrah building in Oklahoma City in 1995.  That leftist  terrorism and intolerance is far more pervasive is an inconvenient fact she  ignores - through it has been there for all to see in such circumstance as  the 1992 Rodney King riots, the Tawana Brawley hoax, and the hustles of  Jesse Jackson.<br />She talks about a &quot;kitchen table backlash&quot;  without bothering to realize that it is a backlash against genuine leftist  discrimination.  She also attacks &quot;the right's attack on gay  rights,&quot; except as homosexual writer Justin Raimondo has pointed out,  gay rights are basically an imposition of gay values on society, and the  &quot;right wing&quot; backlash has nothing to do with any desire to  exterminate or even persecute gays and lesbians.  <br />Again and again  Hardisty tries to attack conservative arguments - in &quot;Affirming Racial  Inequality&quot; she attacks Walter Williams and Thomas Sowell among others  and strives mightily to impose a racist background to suchb writers as  Nathan Glazer.  There is also the tautology against The Bell Curve even as  the passage of time has steadily vindicated its central arguments.<br />She  cites a Holly Sklar tome &quot;Chaos Or Community&quot; to cite a  &quot;growing income inequality udner government deregulation,  globalization&quot; etc. even though none of what the tome claims is true.   This typifies the &quot;progressive&quot; methodology, the very methodology  they claim to abhor in &quot;the right.&quot;<br />For all her scholariship,  Hardisty is quite ignorant of history's obvious truths.  That the left  somehow &quot;lives in the shadow of the right's resurgance&quot; is flatly  nonsensical - the left still dominates academia, media - her claim about  how the idiot-leftist group Fairness and Accuracy In Reporting  &quot;exposes&quot; the exclusion of liberal and progressive voices from  the media is perhaps the ultimate insult to the reader's intelligence - and  culture.  That more and more leftists are steadily, if tacitly, coming  around to admit the right had it correct all along is a fact Hardisty  refuses to acknowledge - she doesn't even mention that such prominent  neoconservatives as Thomas Sowell, Norman Podhoretz, and David Horowitz are  themselves ex-leftists, who turned because of the very intolerance and  intellecutal fraud that is the left's raison d'etre.  <br />The bankrupcy of  &quot;progressive&quot; thought is the reason for the rise of the free  market and the steady disbandment of confiscatory government around the  world.  It is the basic failure of leftist thought that is the real reason  for the rise of the &quot;right.&quot;  If Jean Hardisty wants to take an  accurate look at the rise of the right, she needs to reexamine the  bankrupcy of &quot;progressive&quot; thought.	2000-08-31
US	51042634	R1D2CBB3VKWBVH	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	4	29	40	N	N	Johnson Nails The Deleterity Of Leftist Intellectuals	Paul Johnson does history and truth a service with his follow-up to his magnificent 1983 edition of Modern Times.  Struck during Modern Times' writing at the influence of certain intellectuals in history, Johnson  examines some of the most influential over the final two-plus centuries of  the second millenium of time.<br />Critics have noted that he concentrates on  intellectuals of the left.  The reason he makes manifest over the course of  the book and his other works - it is the influence of the left that has  been cause of most of the damage done to the world over the  centuries.<br />This is demonstrated most tellingly in his examination of Karl  Marx.  Here was an intellectual who had more influence on real events than  any other.  And it is here that the failings of the leftist intellectual  become grotesquely clear - the megalomania, the obscene self-regard, the  contempt for basic truth.  One example best displays Karl Marx's failings  as a scholar - his falsification of a speech by British Finance Minster  W.E. Gladstone, a falsification intended to condemn capitalism when the  actual speech made clear that capitalism was in fact working.  Marx's  falsification was pointed out at the time, which led to &quot;a massive  discharge of obfuscating ink&quot; designed to lie his way out of it.   <br />Johnson also displays the real reason Marx hated capitalism - because of  &quot;his gross incompetence at handling money.&quot;  Such personal  failings drive intellectuals as few others have bothered to realize.   Johnson demonstrates this again and again with Jean-Jacques Rousseau - who  advocated totalitarianism not because it was a worthwhile form of  governance but because it offered a conventient excuse for his dumping his  illegitimate children in state-run orphanages - and others such as  playright Bertoldt Brecht.<br />Johnson examines Ernest Hemingway and Victor  Gollanz, author and editor respectively who participated in numerous  campaigns of disinformation in the name of an even larger act of  disinformation - the hiding of the horrors of Stalinism.  Hemingway's  contribution was his false portrayals of events in the Spanish Civil War,  and Johnson shows how this led Hemingway to break with long time friends  who'd seen what was happening in person and saw Hemingway was getting it  wrong.  Johnson also delves into &quot;The Crook Factory,&quot; Hemingway's  WWII con that let him horde scarce fuel supplies in Cuba on the pretext of  hunting fascist spies that he never once found.<br />Johnson's chapter on  Lillian Hellman is worth reading in that it deals with a playwright who  achieved enormous power through skillful lying and who won an enormous  following even after reality destroyed her fantasy world - it is doubly  worth reading in light of the widespread deification of another  manipulative megalomaniac who has lied her way to great power through eight  years as First Lady.  In the case of Hellman, Johnson finds a doubly  fascinating chapter - the rise and unexpected fall of the author of the  great &quot;Julia&quot; hoax.  Johnson not only details Hellman's activity  with Communism, her deceitful coverup of such activity, and her mendacious  autobiographies, but he also details her relationship with mystery author  Dashiel Hammett, how he changed her writing, and how she impoverished his  daughters.<br />By far the best part of the chapter is the unexpected collapse  of the Hellman mythos.  It began with Hellman's vindictive lawsuit against  Mary McCarthy after her famous line, &quot;Every word (Hellman) has written  is a lie, including 'and' and 'the.'&quot; It accelerated with Samuel  McCracken's expose of how Hellman fabricated a &quot;true&quot; story of an  Austrian anti-Nazi named Julia (which became a famous Jane Fonda film in  1977), and exploded when Austrian records demonstrated that &quot;either  Julia was Mary (Murial Gardener) or she was an invention, and in either  case Hellman was exposed asa liar on a colossal scale.&quot;  And yet  Hellman's funeral was well attended by Hollywood types who ought to know  better, and even today Hellman is still treated respectfully.<br />Johnson  also adds comparatively quick pieces on intellectuals such as filmmaker  Ranier Werner Fassbinder, author James Baldwin, and MIT professor Noam  Chomsky - the Chomsky chapter is especially ugly because it details an  intellectual who has used his great mind to lie for the worst genocides of  the post-WWII era and whose reputation remains untarnished (Chomsky has  been recently deified by the awful leftist rock group Rage Against The  Machine) even today.<br />That we must beware leftist intellectuals should be  manifest, as Johnson courageously demonstrates.	2000-07-28
US	51042634	R13195PBBF6ST2	0060194855	678873627	Truth at Any Cost: Ken Starr and the Unmaking of Bill Clinton	Books	4	4	16	N	N	Finally, An Honest Examination Of The Starr Investigation	The Truth At Any Cost is a much-needed look at the events of 1998 leading to the impeachment of Bill Clinton.  It is different from many other examinations in that it deals strictly with the facts of the case.<br />The  book has been denounced by Clinton supporters as &quot;misleading&quot;  etc.  Nothing can be further from the truth.  The book is far more honest  and even-handed than those of Jeffrey Toobin, Gene Lyons, Joe Conason, or  James Carville.  Only Michael Isikoff's book compares in terms of facts and  honesty.<br />Susan Schmidt and Michael Weisskopf were among the few  journalists who doggedly dug up the truth about Clinton.  Their book notes  that Ken Starr almost indicted Hillary Clinton, but that Hillary was saved  by the death of James McDougal.  It notes how Janet Reno's Justice  Department did all it could to undermine the investigation.  It notes how  James Carville taped phone calls from those who claimed to have  &quot;information&quot; about the Independent Council staff - especially  ironic given Carville and others' rails against Linda Tripp, who did little  more than gather evidence of the commision of a crime.<br />The book deals  with the huge variety of figures in the impeachment drama - the buffoonish  William Ginsberg, the farcifully sanctimonious Susan McDougal, and notably  the mendacious Steven Brill.  Here Susan Schmidt in particular is  effective, having firsthand knowledge of the true ideological conspiracy  that transpired during Clinton-gate - there never was a &quot;vast  right-wing conspiracy&quot; as Hillary Clinton and company have famously  fabricated, but there was instead a far vaster left-wing conspiracy to  defame Starr and those journalists who uncovered the truth.  Schmidt was  stung by Steven Brill's infamous and now-discredited &quot;Pressgate&quot;  article that claimed wholesale illegal leaking by the Independent Council,  a piece that nearly ruined the Council even after Brill's serial  falsification of quotesand distortion of the record became known.<br />The  book certainly reserves criticism for Starr, but overall they give him a  far more deserving portrayal than he has generally gotten.  The book makes  clear that if Starr had one truly negative quality, it was his lack of  killer instinct.  He refused to supoena Clinton early and repeatedly  refused opportunities to indict him, thus giving him time to create a  &quot;defense&quot; that was little more than wholesale obstruction and  lying.<br />The book fills in the holes created by the mythology that has been  spun about Clinton's impeachment.	2000-05-15
US	51042634	R3NOZI49459CN9	156584565X	346166362	Dr. Seuss Goes to War: The World War II Editorial Cartoons of Theodor Seuss Geisel	Books	3	34	72	N	N	The Butter Battle Book In Real Life	The worst book ever done by Theodore Seuss Geisel - Dr. Seuss to the world - was his 1984 attack on American participation in the arms race, The Butter Battle Book.  What made the book objectionable was not only the  wrongness of its thinly-veiled premise (two races seperated by a wall  disagree over how to butter toast and the result is war), but the rank  hypocrisy involved, a hypocrisy displayed in this fascinating compedium of  some 200 editorial cartoons Seuss/Geisel penned for the New York magazine  PM just before World War II and during the war's early years.<br />The wartime  cartoons Seuss penned run the gamut.  All have as their theme the  invincible rightness of American victory over the Axis as well as attacks  on isolationists.  On isolationists, there is a cartoon in which a motherly  type named America First reads a swastika-stamped children's book about  &quot;Adolf The Bear;&quot; the woman reads to the two startled children on  her lap a passage belittling the suffering of &quot;foreign children&quot;  at the hands of Nazi Germany.  There is another portraying Charles  Lindbergh collecting trash for the Axis.<br />Other cartoons are more  blood-curdling.  There is a gruesome picture of Hitler dancing amid a sea  of hanged Jews.  Even this, though, is outdone by Geisel's often grotesque  portrayal of the Japanese - the best cartoon shows an Uncle Sam eagle using  a piece of wood with an exposed nail to pummel a slant-eyed  &quot;Japanese&quot; cat on a corner of &quot;Jap Alley,&quot; only to see  a horde of similar &quot;Jap&quot; cats marching toward him.   <br />Contemporary audiences will likely object to the racial stereotyping  involved in Geisel's Japanese cartoons, never mind the real life barbarism  and inhumanity of the Imperial Army that justifed such unflattering  portrayals.   As mentioned, the hypocrisy of Seuss' Butter Battle Book  compared to his wartime cartoons is what makes the latter fascinating  viewing 55 years after VE and VJDays.  Richard Minear touches on this  hypocrisy when he notes the willful amnesia involved in Seuss' parable on  American reconstruction of defeated Japan, Horton Hears A Who.  <br />Minear  has done a service unearthing these long-forgotten cartoons of Dr. Seuss.	1999-12-12
US	51042634	R18TYK0IQF7D9Q	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	1	9	40	N	N	See James Bovard's Discrediting Of Carville's List	That James Carville is the one who is wrong in this book is shown by James Bovard's deft discrediting of Carville's list of things the government supposedly does right, from the National Weather Service on down.   Carville's list is meant to justify the kind of liberal programs that his  bosses Bill and Hillary Clinton push, yet not one of the items within the  list work in the real world, as Bovard has demonstrated.<br />It reflects the  unreality and spite that drives James Carville.  The man cannot be relied  on to give an accurate picture of anything political.	1999-12-09
US	51042634	R1WCQJTTB0QYRJ	0684857340	790673878	...and the Horse He Rode In On: The People V. Kenneth Starr	Books	1	12	49	N	N	Carville Guilty Of What He Claims To Abhor	James Carville is no stickler for truth.  His invective-driven pseudo-expose of Ken Starr proves it by lambasting Starr without much in the way of accuracy or justification.<br />Craville's thesis is that Starr is  point man for what Hillary Clinton famously called &quot;a vast right wing  conspiracy&quot; to defame Bill Clinton and hand America over to &quot;the  religious right.&quot;  The two problems for Carville are that the  religious right is a fiction of the left, and there is no truth at all to  the &quot;vast right wing conspiracy&quot; thesis, as numerous  investigations  - most recently the acquittal of The American Spectator in  an investigation of its use of sources - and the increasing number of  admissions from former Clinton employees to his own criminality indicate.   In his book on the Clinton impeachment Judge Richard Posner, though he  condemns the right, nonetheless makes clear that the right had the truth on  its side and Starr-baiters like Carville were lying, as even a casual  reading of Starr's final report shows.<br />Two examples suffice of how  Carville defames Ken Starr - he calls Starr a cigarette lawyer while  forgetting that one of Clinton's best lawyers, Charles Ruff, is also a  cigarette lawyer, and far more involved in such than Starr.  Carville also  likes to tell the story of how he supposedly ran into Starr in 1993 and  Starr, without provocation, launched into a tirade against Clinton by  saying, &quot;Your boy is getting rolled.  He doesn't stand for  anything.&quot;  Tucker Carlson discredited Carville's story in 1996,  noting that Carville basically made it up and put it in Starr's  mouth.<br />Such defamation-without-factual-basis is usually called  McCarthyism, but it ought to be changed to Carvillism.  For Carville has no  facts to back up his hatred of Starr - he only has spite.	1999-11-29
US	51042634	R1TD7WF19ELWNO	0786404418	754722827	An Analytical Guide to Television's Battlestar Galactica	Books	5	31	35	N	N	A Much-Needed Defense Of Battlestar Galactica	John Kenneth Muir has authored a superb analysis of the Battlestar Galactica TV series, noting the show's many critics, its strong audience pull, and so forth.  He analyzes all 17 of the show's episodes, explores  some of the behind-the-scenes production problems, and offers the strengths  and weaknesses of the overall show and individual episodes.    Muir's theme  is that Galactica, warts and all, was nonetheless an entertaining and  thought-provoking series that didn't deserve the kind of criticisms it got  from the likes of sci-fi author David Gerrold and horror author Stephen  King - Muir reprints blasts by those two and others against the show,  blasts that display the ever-indefensible strain of elitist snobbery  distressingly common to sci-fi.      Muir's strongest insight lies in his  analysis of the show's hawkish view of war-and-piece issues.  Sci-fi tends  to be drearily pacifistic, based not on any realworld context but on sheer  myth. Battlestar Galactica was different, and remains such even today.  The  show's hawkish philosophy is based on what has happened in the real world,  not on the dreams of pacifists.  Galactica's viewpoint has been repeatedly  verified throughout history; where, for instance, can the one-world pacific viewpoint of Star Trek be verified in the real world?    There are naturally  areas where one can disagree with Mr. Muir - his analyses of the episodes  Lost Planet Of The Gods and Gun On Ice Planet Zero are absurdly harsh; in  GOIPZ he repeats the valid but misunderstood criticism that the Fleet could  have simply bypassed the Cylon-armed planetoid, never realizing that the  Fleet is in effect surrounded by Cylon base stars and cannot do such an  end-run  - and he overanalyzes cliches within the show, such as the  court-martial cliche used in Murder On The Rising Star.      Muir's overall  analysis, though, is spot-on.  He recognizes Battlestar Galactica as an  enjoyable and thought-provoking series, and includes a list of tenrecomended changes for revival of the series.  Some of these recommended changes have found their way into the SCI-FI Network's well-made reimagining of Galactica, and Muir's recommended changes can serve as  rules to be applied to any film genre - the  bad-guys-who-can't-shoot-straight cliche in particular has to be changed.  Before the SCI-FI Network's series, many of these recommendations were employed in the Maximum Press and Realm Press versions of Galactica and in Richard Hatch's novels.    It all proves the durability of a sci-fi series wrongly dismissed then and later.	1999-08-05
US	51042634	RTPK36CXY1Q5N	0965776611	575404097	Arrogance and Accords: The Inside Story of the Honda Scandal	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Greed And Graft Blacken A Beloved Car Company	Steve Lynch has a passion for Honda automobiles.  Such passion helps animate and propel his eyewitness account of the long-running bribery that occurred within Honda Motor Company's American branch.  <br />Lynch's love of  Honda shows in his opening account of the dismal state of the American  automobile scene circa 1981.  There is a certain glee with which Lynch  contrasts the high quality of Honda's product with the lesser quality of  American marques.  Such contrasts in quality proved important, as Honda was  able to sell cars without extensive marketing campaigns.<br />But as Honda  became more successful, bribery and graft within the American division grew  higher and more audacious.  The prince of payola at American Honda was John  &quot;Jack&quot; Billmyer, who &quot;wallowed in the kickbacks of  dealers&quot; throughout the country.  Following in Billmyer's footsteps  was his successor as chief of national sales, Stanley James Cardiges,  nicknamed Jim Car-Jesus, The God of Honda automobiles.<br />One of the biggest  dealer-influence-peddlers who played ball with Billmyer and Cardiges was  NASCAR team owner Rick Hendrick.  Hendrick and Billmyer went back to Rick's  youth as a hot rodder in North Carolina, and Billmyer was instrumental in  getting Hendrick going in car sales.  Lynch shows how Hendrick wielded  undue influence with the company and was thus able to acquire far more car  stores than anyone else. &quot;All it took,&quot; writes Lynch, &quot;were  a few gifts.&quot; <br />Lynch notes that most car companies limit dealers to  about six stores, but Hendrick didn't believe such a rule should apply to  him, and in Honda he found a company that officially did not have such a  rule.<br />Lynch details how Hendrick used bribes and influence in Honda to  bankrupt rival dealers - such as William Van Dalsam of California and Dick  Young of South Carolina - and then poach their stores.  A story not  mentioned in the book adds to the scenario - reportedly, former NASCAR  driver Dick Brooks was approached by Hendrick, who wanted to purchase his  three dealerships.  Brooks refused, and next thing he knew, cars slated for  his shops were going to Hendrick's facilities.<br />Lynch carries the story  through the trial and convictions of over 22 defendents, including  Hendrick.  There is a hint of disappointment in Lynch as he notes that,  with Hendrick's guilty plea to one count of mail fraud (pertaining to one  of the largest bribes to Cardiges), the probe of the Honda scandal seemed  to close.<br />Lynch also notes a lesser-reported angle of the story - how  Hendrick reportedly also bribed Lexus.  Given this record, one has to  wonder if Hendrick has used such tactics with General Motors as well, given  the near-monopolistic clout and engineering backing from GM his NASCAR race  teams wield.<br />Not just NASCAR fans, but anyone interested in cars should  read this book.	1999-02-04
US	51042634	R35QGHOGMPNV7V	1562828479	405388003	I'm a Believer: My Life of Monkees, Music, and Madness	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Captures Dolenz, Warts, Insults, and All	The Monkees today are respected as a superb rock group from the 1960s, and it may come as a surprise to learn that they were once the most controversial.  Those who remember those days will know what I'm talking  about - the controversy over the group's &quot;prefab&quot; image, etc.   The controversy seems rather quaint today, most notably the tautology that  &quot;The Monkees didn't play their own instruments,&quot; etc; the fact  that most groups of the 1960s used studio musicians as well takes the sting  out of such a condemnation.<br />Reading Micky Dolenz' autobiography can be  something of a chore.  It is filled with insights into The Monkees'  gestation and its well-known battles to be taken seriously as a rock group.   It also contains interesting analyses of some songs and also effectively  answers why the TV show remains fresh and entertaining 32 years after the  end of its NBC network run.<br />However, those qualities that helped make  Micky an engaging personality - uninhibited craziness, arrogance, etc. -  also make reading the book difficult.  Micky misses no opportunity to blast  the Vietnam War, and implicitly those who served in it.  It is a rather  insulting manner of addressing the issue, especially considering that he  never bothers to explain why he felt the Vietnam War was such an  abomination - certainly the destruction and death of the war was terrible,  as is always the case in war, but it was also great in the Gulf War, a  conflict Micky has praised.  The reality of the boat people and the  genocides that destroyed Indochina after the war get no mention by Micky,  and one gets the impression that he was patriotic about the Gulf War to  make up for actions during Vietnam that were questionable at best,  indefensible at worst.<br />In fairness, it should be noted that Micky took  his draft physical but flunked it, and was thus removed from consideration  for service.<br />Micky also provides graphic detail about the collapse of The  Monkeesand of his own life.  His near self-destruction is at once both  pitiful and contemptible.  Eventually he became a television director in  Britain, and by the 1980s was directing TV in the US as well.  The 1986  reunion of The Monkees closed the circle, and finally silenced the group's  critics.<br />The dustjacket accurately lists Micky as a survivor.  His story  is important in being a case study of what fame can do, and what not to do  to handle it.	1998-11-28
US	51042634	R1FG02OC24AGZ	1885016018	273168879	Forty plus four, 1990-1993: First supplement to the Forty years of stock car racing series	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Ultimate Review Of Winston Cup	Greg Fielden set out in 1988 to chronicle the history of the Winston Cup  Series.  The result was the four-volume epic Forty Years of Stock Car  Racing.  Every individual race in the history of what began as the Grand  National Series is reviewed in these four volumes, with informative race  reports on the highlights of each event and full field rundowns.<br />The  season reports are bracketed by overviews previewing each season, giving a  big picture to the happenings within a season.  These overviews help  provide greater depth to understanding individual races.  <br />When Volume  Four was finished, it soon became clear that fans would want follow up  accounts of subsequent seasons.  Thus has come Forty Plus Four, a review of  the 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993 NASCAR seasons.<br />If there is a theme to  this book, it is the zenith of Dale Earnhardt's career and the rise of  Ernie Irvan.  Davey Allison and Alan Kulwicki play major roles as well,  most notably in 1992, but their deaths in 1993 robbed the sport of two  great stars and helped Earnhardt and Irvan become near-unstoppable  superstars.  <br />There is superb photography throughout all five of  Fielden's Forty Years epic.  Among the best photos are of flags at  half-staff at Pocono following Davey Allison's death, and of Neil Bonnett's  subsequent tumble into the Talladega fencing.  <br />Given the sheer volume of  the task at hand, it stands to reason that Fielden would make some slips -  he gets some race details wrong, notably when he says, in the 1992 AC Delco  500 at Pocono, that Allison tried to crowd off Darrell Waltrip off the  Tunnel Turn, thus causing Davey's terrifying tumble toward Turn Three.  He  also has insufficient photos of such events as the 1993 Daytona 500 - his  race recap is also absurdly bland and dull, doubly so considering that 500  was among the wildest and most exciting ever - and of the crash-torn 1993  Splitfire 500 at Dover Downs.<br />Nonetheless, this series is vital to anyracefan's understanding of the sport.	1998-10-09
US	51042634	R88KJ4M3UBA6Z	1571671749	700048103	Richard Petty; The Cars of the King	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Superb Look At Richard Petty's History Through His Racecars	They didn't need to write another biography of Richard Petty. At least  that's what Richard himself said.  So Tim Bongard authored a look at  Richard's racecars, and the result makes for a great look back through  NASCAR's history.<br />The process of getting the book published, though, is a  story in itself.  It was originally to be published by a Pennsylvania firm  in 1984.  But the book was never published, and both Petty Enterprises and  those who had ordered the book were left holding the bag.  It wasn't until  the 1997 season that the book finally came out, and it was worth the  wait.<br />The book details all of Richard Petty's racecars.  There was his  1957 Olds convertable, the first car he won a NASCAR race with in 1959.   There was the hemispherical head engine that dominated 1964 and was banned  in '65.  There was the reskinned 1966 chassis on which Petty annihilated  the 1967 NASCAR scene like no one before.  There was the 1969 Ford, a  change of brands that left thousands of Chrysler dealers around the country  flying flags at half-staff.  There was the Superbird, the car that brought  Petty back to Chrysler and helped him begin to truly master the  superspeedways.  <br />Petty's best racecar was the Dodge Charger run from  1972 through 1977.  Petty's first win with Dodge was at Texas World  Speedway in 1972.  His first title with Dodge came in 1974.  Petty's '74  Charger was without doubt the best racecar in the sport, combining superior  aerodynamics with plentiful downforce; other cars had excellent slickness,  such as the 1975-77 Chevrolet Laguna S-3, the '77 Buick Regal, and the '77  Olds Cutlass 442, and others had great downforce, like the 1976 Mercury  Cougar and Montego, and the notchback mid-70s Chevrolet Monte Carlos and  Buicks, but none of these had the balance of the '74 Dodge.<br />Petty's  switch to GM came with the frustrations of the 1978 Dodge Magnum.  The car  was unbalanced, did not cut through the air effectively, and could not bemaintained with Chrysler parts not to be found.   Petty's 1978-80 drives in  Chevrolets and the '77 Olds, the cars his competition had been dominating  with, showed once and for all the driving and team preparation that had  earned him six titles and would earn him a seventh in 1979.<br />When Ford  reentered stock car racing in 1982, Pontiac came with it, and Petty  Enterprises began a relationship with Pontiac that has lasted longer than  Petty's relationship with Chrysler.  My favorite of Petty's Pontiacs was  the monstrous looking 1986 Grand Prix 2+2.  Petty was never fond of this  car, primarily because of its lack of downforce, but it was a stopgap racer  to begin with.  Petty's 13 top fives - including seconds at Atlanta in 1986  and Bristol in 1987 - with the 2+2 showed it wasn't that bad a racecar.   There were certainly a number of races - Pocono and Talladega 1986,  Michigan 1987 to name three - where Petty had the stuff necessary to win  with the 2+2.<br />Bongard is quite critical of the GM10 body Pontiac that  debuted in 1988, and his criticisms are a bit off base.  He claims that  teams cringed upon seeing the car's shortish rear deck; they may have, but  the car was far and away better than the 2+2 and didn't have any less  downforce than what Chevy and Ford ran.  The GM10 body Pontiac won eight  races in 1988, and by the time the bodystyle, heavily changed over its  life, was retired after 1995, it had won 36 Winston Cup races and bagged  enough top fives to qualify as a great racecar.<br />Petty Enterprises never  mastered the GM10 body, but they have made up for that with the W body  Pontiac that debuted in 1996.   The W body Pontiac has excellent downforce  and good drag numbers - NASCAR wind tunnel tests reportedly showed it to  beat Chevy and Ford in rear downforce and in low drag.  The car's front  downforce has been a problem, especially in traffic, but three years  working with the car seems to have taken at least some of the push out, andthe car has been victorious.  It was this Pontiac that saw Petty  Enterprises return to victory lane in 1996 with driver Bobby  Hamilton.<br />The book basically ends with then 1996 season, though it does  offer a quick preview of the 1997 saeason and the merging of Petty  Enterprises with Kyle Petty's PE2 team.  The combination has shown great  promise, and one has reason to hope for more wins in the future.  That can  be the subject of a sequal.	1998-08-28
US	51042634	R1SXROM55UL0B9	0760305714	882384092	The Bobby Allison Story: Circle of Triumph	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Circle Of Futility The End Result Of A Circle Of Triumph	No NASCAR driver showed greater grit and determination than Robert Arther  Allison.  Born in Miami in a large family, Bobby Allison learned  competitiveness right away.  He started racing in Hialeah, Florida under an  alias, and his mother's first sight of his racing came when he tumbled down  the frontstretch right in front of her.<br />Ben White, of Winston Cup Scene,  authors this overdue look back at a stock car career filled with triumph -  and ultimately destroyed.  He includes voluminous quotes from Bobby Allison  on the entirety of his career.<br />Allison, his new wife Judy, and their  year-old son David Carl moved from Miami to Hueytown, Alabama in 1962 to  race on that state's rich short track circuit.  Bobby was soon joined by  younger brother Donnie, and the two built a race shop that soon became  famous throughout the sport. It was in Alabama that Bobby struck up a  friendship with Charles &quot;Red&quot; Farmer, perhaps the state's  greatest short tracker, and a future winner of Daytona's Permatex 300 for  superspeedway Late Model Sportsman cars.  Bobby and Donnie would also take  under their wing a happy-go-lucky pipe fitter who competed against them,  named Neil Bonnett.<br />Bobby Allison competed in NASCAR's Modified Tour and  finished high in points several times, but his goal was the Grand National  Series.  He began competing there almost immediately with his own  equipment, and in 1966 at Oxford, Maine, he drove a well-worn Chevrolet to  his first Grand National victory.  He won several more times that year and  early in 1967, but then came the first big break.  Holman-Moody was the  primary raceshop for Ford's Grand National efforts, and with Richard Petty  driving his Plymouth to 27 wins that year, Ford went berserk looking for a  driver who could stop him.  Fred Lorenzen recommended Bobby Allison, and at  the tail end of the 1967 season, Allison won at Rockingham and at  Ashville-Weavervile, NC.  The win at Ashville came after a heated  car-banging duel with Petty - but the first of such showdowns.<br />By 1969  Allison had left Holman-Moody and joined up with Mario Rossi of Dodge.   Campaigning Rossi's #22 Dodges and those fielded out of his own Hueytown  shop, Bobby ran for the Grand National title, but finished a frustrating  second to Bobby Isaac in 1970.<br />Along the way, Bobby had acquired  sponsorship from Coca-Cola, and it proved vital over the next two seasons.   The withdrawal of the factories from NASCAR injured the sport greatly, even  though in 1971 Winston cigarettes came on board with a series sponsorship  package that would eventually overcome the recession caused by the factory  withdrawal.  Without the factories, Allison left the defunct Rossi team and  was very hard pressed to campaign his own cars.  Finally, in May of that  year, Ralph Moody of Holman-Moody came calling again, and Bobby took his  Coke sponsorship into what would prove to be one of the strongest rides  he'd ever had.  Bobby rocketed to nine wins in the Holman-Moody Mercury and  during this stretch challenged Richard Petty week in and week out.  The  result was some of the most exciting racing the sport had ever seen - and  some of the nastiest, for no two personalities clashed more viciously than  Richard Petty and Bobby Allison. The most dramatic clash of the two in 1971  came at the Talladega 500.  Three wide with Pete Hamilton in the final  mile, Allison slapped doors with Petty, sending him into Hamilton and  sending both off the track.  <br />When Holman-Moody disbanded after 1971,  Allison took his Coke backing to the Chevrolet team of Charlotte Motor  Speedway president Richard Howard, a car wrenched by winning team owner  Junior Johnson.  The key to the pairing was the hiring of engine builder  Robert Yates, with whom Allison had worked at Holman-Moody.  The  combination pulled down ten victories and led over 4,000 laps, and it too  everything Richard Petty could muster to win eight races and stave off thehard-charging Allison in the 1972 points race.  This was most decisively  shown at North Wilkesboro, NC in October of that year.  The two fought  ferociously over the course of the final 50 laps, and when Allison became  trapped behind a lapped car, the resulting wreck would have eliminated  anyone else, but Petty and Allison still went at it, Petty winning with a  hard last lap pass.  The crowd nearly rioted afterward, and Petty had to be  taken to safety after a fan accosted him.<br />Such feuds were common with  Bobby.  White unwisely underplays the feuds Bobby had with other drivers,  notably Cale Yarborough, Darrell Waltrip, and Terry Labonte.  Such feuds  deserve retelling if for no other reason than for their frequency and  ferocity.  Allison's determination to win was his greatest strength, but  also his greatest weakness, for it led to incidents that were generally  avoidable.   <br />One such incident was the controversial National 500 at  Charlotte in 1973.  Allison protested the 1-2 finish of Cale Yarborough (in  the Howard/Johnson Chevrolet) and Richard Petty, claiming both cars ran  engines with more cubic inches than allowed by the rules.  It turned out  Cale's engine was indeed illegal - White implies that Petty's engine was  likewise illegal, failing to note that only three of Petty's eight  cylinders were checked, and that they averaged out to the then-legal limit  of 431 cubic inches - and when the race results stood, Allison filed a  lawsuit against NASCAR, a suit dropped after a closed-door meeting with  NASCAR president Billy France.  <br />Losing the 1972 title contributed to  Bobby leaving the Richard Howard-Junior Johnson team to try again with his  own equipment, but each time he ran his own team, &quot;he broke  himself,&quot; said Donnie Allison.  It got so bad that, in 1977, his  health deteriorated, and he required trips to the Mayo clinic - trips that  seemed to catch most observors off guard.<br />Allison continued to win in the  1970s, driving for Roger Penske and Bud Moore, but it was with DiGard  Racing that Allison achieved his goal of the Winston Cup championship.   This time Bobby's arch-enemy was Darrell Waltrip, in the Junior Johnson  car.  Allison missed no opportunity to taut the Waltrip/Johnson pairing as  the NASCAR-approved &quot;company car,&quot; and also missed no opportunity  to beat them on the track.   Allison's  1982 season was what any racer  could want - sweeps of races at Daytona and Pocono, and wins at Dover,  Michigan, Richmond, and Atlanta - but no championship.  The title finally  came in 1983, and was the apex of a superlative career.<br />It was downhill  after that.  DiGard team owners Jim and Bill Gardner - known in the sport  as money guys, for their status as businessmen rather than racers - were  essentially con artists, and their race team, built more as a tax write off  than anything else, was neglected, especially after the 1983 championship.   Ben White provides the alternately fascinating and depressing details of  the fall of DiGard Racing, a downfall fully consummated when first Allison,  then Robert Yates and crew chief Gary Nelson, quit in 1985.<br />Allison wound  up with Bill and Mickey Stavola, and by the 1988 Daytona 500 his son Davey  was a Winston Cup star.  The two finished 1-2 in one of the sport's most  poignant finishes - a poignancy that took on a more tragic quality that  June.  On the opening lap of the Miller 500 at Pocono, Allison hit the wall  in Turn Two, slid low, and was slammed through the driver's door at full  speed by part time racer Chauncy &quot;Jocko&quot; Maggiacomo.  Only quick  work by the track's safety crew kept Allison on the threshhold of life, but  even though he would recover, the crash destroyed Bobby's career.<br />And it  was just the beginning.  Bobby formed a race team out of the remains of the  team he had won Daytona with, and campaigned for seven seasons with such  drivers as Hut Stricklin, Jimmy Spencer, andDerrike Cope.  Bobby had a  strong deal with Buick, and with them made a very strong effort for race  wins in 1991, but when GM disbanded all non-Chevrolet racing efforts other  than Pontiac's for 1992, it started the downfall of Bobby Allison  Motorsports.<br />The deaths of Bobby's sons Clifford and Davey - followed by  the death of Bobby's lifelong friend and protege Neil Bonnett in 1994 -  accelerated the downfall, and affected Judy Allison all the worse.   Everything - the race team, and the marriage of Bobby and Judy - finally  collapsed in 1996, and by 1997 Bobby was essentially a ruined man; even the  mammoth collection of racing trophies he had acquired over his years of  racing had to be sold off.<br />It is a depressing story, not made any better  by a somewhat overly optimistic quality in White's retelling.   Even the  title is a bit deceptive - what had been a Circle Of Triumph has become a  Circle of Futility.  <br />But for all that, Bobby Allison's life - and this  excellent book - remain worth remembering	1998-08-23
US	51042634	R1VR7K2SWSZ170	0345407253	362937959	Wide Open: Days and Nights on the NASCAR Tour	Books	4	0	3	N	N	The 1996 NASCAR Season Through The Eyes Of Three	When he arrived at Daytona International Speedway in February of 1996,  Shaun Assael had no idea who to write about for his book Wide Open, Days  And Nights On The NASCAR Tour.  After extensive searching, he decided that  the focus of his look at one of NASCAR's most amazing seasons in memory  would be on three drivers of different circumstances.  He focused on Dave  Marcis, the last of the independents; Brett Bodine, the newest  owner-driver, trying to make something happen; and Bobby Hamilton, hungry  for his first win and smarting from condemnations of mediocrity through his  Winston Cup career.<br /><br />Assael starts with the 1996 Daytona 500, and right away things go wrong - Brett Bodine loses a car to fire on the racetrack.  In spite of that, the team brought out a backup car that seemed to run  better.  But then that was destroyed in a crash in the first of Daytona's  125 mile qualifying races for the 500.  Nonetheless, Brett managed to get  into the race, only to lose a third car in a nasty pileup at about 300  miles in the 500.<br /><br />Bobby Hamilton finished an inglorious 20th in the 500  but a week later at Rockingham, NC, it appeared he would break out.  The  week before the Daytona 500, Hamilton had seen the burial of his father,  and it seemed to bring out a fire in him.  At Rockingham Hamilton timed  very well, and in the final 100 laps he took the lead with authority.  A  caution with some 60 to go set up a duel with Dale Earnhardt, one that  ranked with the finest showdowns for a race win ever.  But when Earnhardt  clipped Hamilton's Pontiac coming out of Rockingham's treacherous fourth  turn on Lap 343, Hamilton slapped the wall.  Livid and determined to win,  he overdrove the car and finally crashed.  Hamilton's frustrated soliloquy  to ESPN afterward became one the best soundbites in all of sports.<br /><br />And so  it goes.  Assael delves into the lives of his three subjects very deeply.  Along the way he branches out very effectively, such as when Hamilton and  John Andretti crunched fenders during and after the ensuing Richmond 400.  Richard Petty, Hamilton's car owner, walked into the trailer of his former  driver Andretti, and calmly vowed to \\"whip his butt if he ever  took it out on my car again.  He wants to beat on my driver, fine.  But  don't take it out on my racecar.\\"  There is a double irony here; years  earlier Hamilton, driving for the now-defunct George Bradshaw team, tagged  Richard Petty at North Wilkesboro, and Petty told Hamilton, \\"Don't  jack with me.  I'll do it four times worse to you.\\"  His similar  warning to John Andretti was an ironic precursor to Andretti's later tour behind the wheel of Petty's STP Pontiac.<br /><br />Assael deals with Brett  and his often-tumultuous relationship with older brother Geoff.  Strain  developed between the two after Geoff purchased the race team of former  champion Alan Kulwicki in 1992.  The strain exploded in a wreck at the 1994  Brickyard 400, and the brothers wound up not speaking to one another.<br /><br />It would take the financial ruin of running their race teams with  sponsors coming and going that would bring the two together again.  But  even then, their careers could not get going.  For Brett, it got to the  point where, qualifying for the Brickyard 400, his wife Diane was crying,  desperately afraid that the team they'd mortgaged their whole lives for was  going to die and take them with it.<br /><br />Dave Marcis never got quite so  desperate, but Assael makes clear that his struggles with inferior  sponsorship monies were getting him nowhere.  \\"By the end of the 1997  season,\\" Assael notes, \\"the last of the independents was still  hanging on.  But barely.  Just barely.\\"<br /><br />Along the way, Assael gives  a revealing look at the politics involved in the sport.  There is the  reason why Geoff Bodine went to Hoosier Tire for the 1994 season, a clip  that should serve to disabuse widespread fan notions that favorites are not  played by the varied manufacturers - tire and automotive - operating within  the sport.  Later, Assael deals with Gary Claudio, the head of Pontiac's  Winston Cup program, a man striving to get his squadron of racers the kind  of winning chances the top Chevrolet and Ford teams always seemed to get.  General Motors had united the racing programs of its divisions in 1992  under the leadership of Chevrolet's race boss Herb Fishel, and what  resulted was the elimination of all non-Chevrolet programs but Pontiac's.  And Pontiac's program was never given the respect or technical  help from GM's Motorsports Technology Group that Chevrolet (and Hendrick Motorsports in particular) got.  Assael notes that GM's chief  engineer Terry Laise and then-tech support chief Don Taylor ostensibly  worked for both Chevy and Pontiac, but in reality worked almost exclusively  with Chevy teams.  This erupted into a near-brawl between Petty Enterprises  team manager Dale Inman and Laise.  \\"I'm sick of you lying to  me,\\" Inman growled.<br /><br />Further hurting Pontiac was the utter lack of  cooperation by one of its best teams, SABCO.  In the autumn of 1994 team  owner Felix Sabates had been given blueprints for the new Pontiac bodystyle  that would debut at the '96 Daytona 500.  He'd been told to build a  prototype for testing beginning in early 1995.  Incredibly, no attempt was  made by SABCO to build a Pontiac prototype, and having lost some nine  months, Pontiac turned to Chuck Rider's Bahari team for prototype work.  The nine months lost because of SABCO indifference left Pontiac way behind  the curve entering 1996.<br /><br />Amid all this, the 1996 season went on.  Hamilton raced on, through the pain of a savage head-on crash during a  late-June test session at Indianapolis, and through the strain of his car  owner's apparent lack of confidence in his driver.  At Martinsville in  September, Hamilton led 334 laps and lost the event only because an air  wrench jammed on the car's finalstop.  Petty had asked Bobby's wife  Debbie, \\"Why won't he go to the front?\\" much to the surprise and  anger of Debbie.  When the race ended, she asked if Richard had changed his  mind on Bobby.  \\"Nope,\\" was his curt response.<br /><br />Dave Marcis and  Brett Bodine, meanwhile, continued on, trying to get something out of  basically nothing.  They didn't have the backing or the racecars to get to  the front, and hard as they tried - they worked harder than most teams all  season - they could never get decent finishes.  Shaun Assael rightly places  his sympathy toward them for their tribulations.<br /><br />For Hamilton, however,  there was a happy ending.  Phoenix International Raceway awarded him with a  hard earned and very deserving first victory.  It was the first win for  Petty Enterprises since October of 1983 - Richard would win two races in  1984, driving for a different team, Curb Motorsports - and Assael notes  that crew chief Robbie Loomis went looking for Dale Inman to bring him to  victory lane, and didn't find him until he spotted him coming out of a  men's room, his eyes swollen and red, as though from sobbing.<br /><br />Assael's  book is a tremendously engrossing look at NASCAR through three of its  drivers.  It leaves you respecting these and others like them all the more.	1998-08-23
US	51042634	R2O13GBUTQ4O7T	0671011901	597788253	Warhawk: Battlestar Galactica	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Rip-Roaring Yarn Pits The Galactica Against Foe AND Friend	Richard Hatch and Chris Golden authored a splendid novel in Battlestar  Galactica: Armageddon.  But in its sequal, they manage to outdo themselves  with a deft mixture of action, plot twists, and superb character interplay,  all of which were in plentiful supply in Armageddon but fleshed out even  more here.<br />Armageddon basically reintroduced the characters and premise  of Battlestar Galactica.  This being the case, that story had a minor drag  to it; it was by no means a flaw, simply a minor drag.  In Warhawk there is  the advantage of familiarity, and the result is a faster paced story with  more surprising twists.<br />The Galactica discovers a planet in the Xerik  system, and to the surprise of Commander Apollo, Colonel Athena, and  others, the planet is populated by survivors of the Twelve Colonies who had  fled the Final Destruction at the hands of the Cylons during the chaotic  period of time before the Galactica could assemble other survivors into its  ragtag fleet of refugees.  As if that weren't enough, this new human  homeworld, known as Poseidon, is under the defense of the battlestar  Pegasus, led by Commander Cain, both thought lost in the battle of Gomoray  decades earlier.<br />But there's more.  Poseidon has managed to create an  industrial base with which it has built battlestars and battlecruisers.   This small warfleet is the nucleus of what Cain intends to be the push that  liberates the Twelve Worlds and overthrows the Cylon Empire once and for  all.  Apollo, Athena, and Quorom President Tigh vehemently point out that  such a campaign is impossible, but Cain will not listen.  Further, Cain has  allied with an alien race known as the Chitain, whom he hopes will assist  his mad scheme to overthrow Cylon.<br />But exploration by Apollo of Poseidon  shows that it was once populated by elements of Kobol's Thirteenth Tribe.   As he, Starbuck, and others explore further, they discover a horrifying  secret as to what became of the planet's predecessor civilization, a secret  tied directly to the Chitain.<br />The basic story is branched by several  subplots, most notably the shocking autonomy held by the Great Traitor,  Baltar, and his success at winning over converts to his story that he was  forced by the Cylons to aid their cause rather than his having sided with  them of his own volition.<br />The book is a winner in almost every respect.   Only minor nits are evident to pick - the Cylon role in the story is  unsatisfyingly minor - but they don't detract from an overall story that  leaves the reader pleased and eagerly awaiting the inevitable third chapter  of this new Battlestar Galactica continuity.	1998-08-15
US	51042634	RXWXU6RJAA6EW	1574270443	756812815	Davey Allison: A Celebration of Life	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Poignant Photo Review Of One Of NASCAR's True Racers	David Carl Allison had everything going for him.  In his rookie season on NASCAR's Winston Cup Series, he won two races, won a pole, and established himself as an immeasurably friendly personality.<br />All of that ended in July of 1993.  Landing a heliocopter he had recently purchased at Talladega Superspeedway, Davey was killed when the helicraft looped over and smashed top first onto the ground.  Suddenly, the personality that was carrying the sport into the 1990s was gone.<br />Davey's widow Liz grieved the loss of her husband, the father of her children Krista and Robert Grey, but in 1995 she purged that grief and let her heart flow by putting together this poignant photo look at her husband's career.  <br />The photos run the gamut - there is the 1961 shot of nine month old Davey using a toy telephone, with a look of &quot;What the blank is THIS thing?&quot; on his face.   There are childhood photos and photos of the beginning of his racing career.  His first win at Birmin! gham (AL) International Raceway came in April of 1979, with proud papa Bobby Allison looking on.  <br />There are some great shots of Davey posing with racecars in the middle 1980s.  One shows Davey posing with the #1 Chevrolet with which he made his Winston Cup debut in 1985.  There is a 1983 photo of Davey, with Darrell Waltrip, Dave Marcis, and Dick Brooks all grinning at what he is saying during a news conference.<br />There are many shots of Davey hanging out with his best buddy, Brett Bodine.  The one on page 73 shows Davey, Liz, and Brett walking hand in hand down Talladega's pit road, almost like little kids.  <br />Another favorite is the shot of Dale Earnhardt on a payphone, Davey, Bill Elliott, Bobby Hamilton, Geoff Bodine, and Ted Musgrave all waiting their turn.<br />Davey took up hunting and fishing as a hobby, and one great shot shows him with a 26 pound bass fish that almost looks bigger than him.<br />But the most gut-wrenching shot is at the very end, of Dale Earnhardt, hol! ding a #28 flag in victory lane at Pocono, his face almost ! ashen.   More than any words, that shot rams home just how much Davey meant to racing, and how much we so desperately want to know how high he would have reached in his career.<br />There are some minor nits to pick; there's a photo on Page 60 at Martinsville that is erroneously listed as 1992.  Not only are the cars pictured of 1993 specs (Kyle Petty's Pontiac sports a flush airdam not allowed until 1993) but the name above the door reads, &quot;Ernie Irvan.&quot;  The book has several superb shots of Davey Allison and 1992 champion Alan Kulwicki, killed in a plane crash just three months before Davey's death, but should also have made an attempt to find photos of Davey Allison and Tim Richmond, yet another superstar cut down before his full potential was reached.<br />Noentheless, it is well worth the investment to own this look back on NASCAR's most genuinely charming personality to come out of the decade of the 1980s.	1998-08-07
US	51042634	RP3B6S75ZPF8G	0028621476	745381855	The Last Lap : The Life and Times of NASCAR's Legendary Heroes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Much-Needed Antidote To PR on NASCAR's 50th	Peter Golenbock first became involved in NASCAR with American Zoom, an oral history of the sport up to the 1992-3 seasons.  Zoom was a superb look at the sport as seen from a variety of personalities.  Golenbock, though, has outdone himself greatly with this superior oral history.<br />Golenbock interviews a variety of people involved in the sport since its 1949 inception.  Featured are Tim Flock, in one of his last interviews before his passing; the widows of Curtis Turner and Dewayne &quot;Tiny&quot; Lund; Buddy Baker; Harry Hyde's nephew Tommy Johnson; Ralph Moody; Maurice Petty; and on.<br />The insights provided are often immortal.  There is Maurice Petty's take on his brother Richard's career; he gives interesting insight into the factory wars of the 1960s, particularly Ford's involvement.  &quot;Ford (was) able to win the.... championship in 1968 because they threw a lot of Fords out there, a lot of drivers.  They just kept throwing them out there....&quot;  Thirty ye! ars later, Ford's &quot;buy-the-starting-field&quot; tactic is still paying off.<br />The most heartbreaking section is Wanda Lund Early's story of her relationship with &quot;Tiny&quot; Lund, the 1963 Daytona 500 winner, who was killed in a horrendous pileup in the 1975 Talladega 500.  In a cruel irony, Lund had not even qualified for that race, but when Grant Adcox's chief mechanic Gene Lovell died of a heart attack the day before the race, Adcox withdrew, and Lund - the first alternate - got his spot.<br />Wanda's relationship with Tiny got off to a decidedly bizarre start.  &quot;He turned me over on his knee&quot; and spanked her &quot;like a two year old.  Then we were an item after that.&quot;  She relates how Tiny had not particularly wanted to race at Talladega that day, but had given his word to owner A.J. King.  Wanda's retelling of the gnawing trepidation that kept her from even listening to MRN Radio's call of the race that day leave's the reader sweating.<br />But the mos! t fascinating chapters are those of Lou Larosa.  An engine ! builder with some of the best teams the sport has ever seen, Larosa gives a tremendously interesting insight into the evolution of the sport from the early 1970s to today.  He relates the rise of drivers Darrell Waltrip and Dale Earnhardt, and is quite harsh on some of the sport's biggest names.<br />Some of Larosa's insights are genuinely surprising:  one would never have thought that the Rod Osterlund team with which Earnhardt and Larosa won the 1980 Winston Cup title would have almost closed down even before the 1980 season began.  Yet it was winnings from race purses that carried the team until sponsorship from businessmen Warner Hodgedon and Mike Curb came along in May of that year.<br />Larosa also gives a sharp insight into modern factory politics.  When he and Earnhardt joined Richard Childress Racing in 1984, a top Chevrolet official told Larosa that they were, in essense, forbidden from winning the championship: &quot;That's Junior Johnson's territory.&quot;  Despite that,!  RCR Enterprises won 25 races and two championships spanning 1984 through 1988.<br />But the politics continued.  The 1988 season was a very frustrating one for RCR.  For one thing, Pontiac, working with the Brodix company, had developed a hnew cylinder head that provided 25 extra horsepower, yet Chevrolet forbade its teams from using Pontiac/Brodix heads until late in the '88 season.  &quot;The bottom line was that they weren't going to let me use something that wasn't made by Chevrolet.  &quot;Instead of Chevrolet saying, 'We're getting beat, we need to go to work,' they were still saying, &quot;Our parts are the best.'....Chevrolet was fat, dumb, and lazy, had no competition per se, until this other stuff came along.&quot;  It is telling that, several years later, GM merged the racing programs of its divisions together under Chevrolet leadership and in effect destroyed non-Chevy GM programs.  It helps explain the growing lack of wins by GM teams in Winston Cup today.<br />Larosa ! saves his greatest fire for crew chief Larry McReynolds.  M! cReynolds had criticized Larosa and his engines in American Zoom, and Larosa gets even with a vengeance, detailing incidents of such jaw-dropping incompitence on the part of McReynolds that it is a wonder that the man has any kind of racing job.<br />Larosa is no less harsh on people he had to deal with in what turned out to be his last engine building job, with Darrell Waltrip's now-defunct team.  His most stinging criticism is aimed at Waltrip himself.  &quot;Darrell and crew chiefs and Darrell and engine builders don't get along too well.  Because it's never Darrell's fault.  It's never him.  It's ALWAYS someone else.....Darrell hated (crew chiefs and engine builders)....because Darrell has always been a follower, not a leader, not an innovative person.  (Even as a driver in the 1970s and '80s) he was a follower, and you can't win races following what other people do.&quot;<br />The collapse of Waltrip's team came after he signed a sponsor that had already been bankrupt for man! y months.  &quot;But Darrell was susceptible to that sort of person, the people who blew smoke.....it's because deep down he doesn't have faith.  He says he does, but he has never had faith in his own people.  Instead, he's always belittled them.&quot;<br />Larosa delivers an indictment of modern racing:  &quot;Racing has turned into a commercial.  It doesn't matter whether he wins anymore.  All that matters is that he's a  good spokesman for the sponsor.  And Dale Earnhardt can deny it - they all can deny it - but the T-shirt sales and the souvenirs are more important than the race team.  They'll say, 'We want to win.'  Bull.....Where is the priority when you make $4 million racing and $40 million selling souvenirs?&quot;  True blooded racing people are &quot;getting pushed to the side to make room for the b.s. people with computers.....they can take their computers....because that ain't racing like it used to be.&quot;<br />At Texas Motor Speedway in April of 1998, track presiden! t Eddie Gossage promised to sell T-shirts marked, &quot;Shu! t Up And Race.&quot; Gossage got hammered for it.  Reading this excellent book, one is hard pressed to disagree with him.wins by GM teams in Winston Cup today.<br />Larosa ! saves his greatest fire for crew chief Larry McReynolds.  M! cReynolds had criticized Larosa and his engines in American Zoom, and Larosa gets even with a vengeance, detailing incidents of such jaw-dropping incompitence on the part of McReynolds that it is a wonder that the man has any kind of racing job. <br />Larosa is no less harsh on people he had to deal with in what turned out to be his last engine building job, with Darrell Waltrip's now-defunct team.  His most stinging criticism is aimed at Waltrip himself.  &quot;Darrell and crew chiefs and Darrell and engine builders don't get along too well.  Because it's never Darrell's fault.  It's never him.  It's ALWAYS someone else.....Darrell hated (crew chiefs and engine builders)....because Darrell has always been a follower, not a leader, not an innovative person.   (Even as a driver in the 1970s and '80s) he was a follower, and you can't win races following what other people do.&quot;<br />The collapse of Waltrip's team came after he signed a sponsor that had already been bankrupt for man! y months.  &quot;But Darrell was susceptible to that sort of person, the people who blew smoke.....it's because deep down he doesn't have faith.  He says he does, but he has never had faith in his own people.  Instead, he's always belittled them.&quot;<br />Larosa delivers an indictment of modern racing:  &quot;Racing has turned into a commercial.   It doesn't matter whether he wins anymore.  All that matters is that he's a  good spokesman for the sponsor.  And Dale Earnhardt can deny it - they all can deny it - but the T-shirt sales and the souvenirs are more important than the race team.  They'll say, 'We want to win.'  Bull.....Where is the priority when you make $4 million racing and $40 million selling souvenirs?&quot;  True blooded racing people are &quot;getting pushed to the side to make room for the b.s. people with computers.....they can take their computers....because that ain't racing like it used to be.&quot;<br />At Texas Motor Speedway in April of 1998, track presiden! t Eddie Gossage promised to sell T-shirts marked, &quot;Shu! t Up And Race.&quot; Gossage got hammered for it.  Reading this excellent book, one is hard pressed to disagree with him.	1998-08-07
US	51042634	R2CICW9M77I9Q5	0671011693	104166566	Battlestar Galactica: Armageddon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Battlestar Galactica Shines Again In Engrossing Read	Much has been written about Battlestar Galactica, the story of a mammoth warship guarding the last survivors of Twelve Worlds seeking the final outpost of humanity - Earth.  It began as a television series in 1978, one that lasted but one season due to the show's expense and to network indifference.  A spinoff series ran briefly in 1980 but was unsatisfying at most levels.<br />Battlestar Galactica has often been condemned as poorly conceived and abysmally written.  True, it was made into a weekly series when it should have been a series of bi-monthly movies (the original concept creator-producer Glen Larson had in mind) and as a result scripts had a very uneven quality to them.  That they nonetheless turned out quite well says a great deal about the concept.<br />It wasn't until Rob Liefeld and Robert Napton came out with a Battlestar Galactica comic book series in 1995 that the concept truly came into its own. The comic was beautifully written and created, able to explore c! haracters and ideas the show was unable to explore at the time of its initial run, and remains among the finest graphic novels ever put to print.<br />Richard Hatch, the show's star as Captain Apollo, contributed one of the comic's stories, &quot;Apollo's Journey,&quot; a story that served as a rough draft for the novel he has coauthored with Chris Golden.  Hatch expands on the basic &quot;Apollo's Journey&quot; storyline and co-fashions a gripping read.<br />The Galactica and the fleet of refugee ships under her protection are caught in the grip of political turmoil, as Commander Adama, the fleet's leader since the Final Destruction of the Twelve Colonies, dies.   The turmoil, it turns out, is the machinations of Count Iblis, a mystical being with a stunning tie to the scourge of the fleet, the Cylons.  <br />The plot and its branches are too extensive to detail here, but they are grippingly laid out, with superb exploration of the huge cast of characters created for Galactica.  <br />Th! ereare minor nits to pick - the novel lists the Galactica ! as only carrying 75 fightercraft, yet the ship's vast size - well over 2,000 feet in length - allows the fielding of nearly 200 fightercraft.   But such quibbles don't greatly injure what is an immensely enjoyable story.	1998-08-05
US	51042634	R3U2YIFVY66K3X	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Final Refutation Of Liberal &quot;Compassion&quot;	Thomas Sowell never ceases to amaze and enlighten with his myriad of books on the follies of liberal &quot;thought.&quot;  As one who once thoroughly endorsed the titular vision of the anointed - his term for the self-appointed cadre whose mission is changing the world &quot;for the better&quot; - Sowell holds a unique insight into the thought processes of those who ostensibly seek to &quot;help&quot; people but who in reality are simply jealous of, and wish to injure, those who succeed.<br />A reviewer above notes that Sowell attacks primarily liberals.  There is a valid reason for this - it is primarily liberals who seek to change society in their own vainglorious image.  Sowell's best individual example is that of Ralph Nader.  Relatively few have ever noticed that, amid his endless combat for &quot;consumer advocacy,&quot; Nader is what one Congressional committee chairman accurately called &quot;a bully and know-it-all, consumed by certainty and frequently in error.&q! uot;  Sowell decisively refutes the book that made Ralph Nader, Unsafe At Any Speed, a book that used the Chevrolet Corvair as a stick with which to beat automobile factories.  The book was and is fundamentally dishonest, yet so few paid attention amid the wave of Nader's spin that by the time someone noticed that the book was utterly false, the damage had been done, and self-appointed consumer &quot;advocates&quot; had become a cancer on the economy and society.<br />Sowell goes through chapter after chapter detailing liberals' attempt to impose their will on the world, the usually disasterous results of this &quot;vision of the anointed,&quot; and the consistent inability to make liberals face up to their own failures.  This is the most depressing aspect of the entire issue.  Instead of facing up to their mistakes, liberals, possesed of a holier-than-thou attitude, press on.  Even today, when no denial of the havoc wrought by liberal social engineering has any credibility, libe! rals continue,through such boondoggles as health care &quo! t;reform&quot; - actually Stalinization of health care and punishment of those who've supposedly &quot;profited&quot; from &quot;unfair&quot; health care policies.  <br />What Sowell does best here is demonstrate that liberals do not in fact care for people.  Liberal thinking is characterized by a general lack of thought and a penchant to treat people as groups instead of as individuals.  The anointed insist on their compassion for humanity, yet never think in terms of actual people.  This is what makes Sowell's book so important - it shows why &quot;Seldom have so few cost so much to so many.&quot;	1998-08-04
US	51042634	R3VML2FPPSC4I2	0671751727	127926997	The War in 2020	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Superior Sci-Fi Action Adventure	The War in 2020 has been called &quot;The military equivalent of Orwell's 1984,&quot; and it's hard to disagree with such a judgement.  It is set in a nightmarish world where Japan has become a military threat once again, Russia has governed itself to the point of being reduced to figurative ash and has been invaded by Japanese-sanctioned Iranian forces and local guerrilla armies, and the US has become the last hope for Russia, in spite of the fact that the US military has been all but destroyed due to decades of neglect.<br />Peters creates some fascinating characters and fleshes them out very well through the course of his story.  Colonel George Taylor, the commander of the US Army's 7th Cavalry, is an officer infected with an AIDS-like plague, called Runciman's Disease, that attacks the brain.  Shot down by Japanese gunships years before his duty in Russia, Taylor not only doesn't give a damn that the odds he faces are impossible, he almost relishes such odds.  <br />His m! en are loyal to him, for the very good reason that he has earned it.  Major Howard &quot;Merry&quot; Meredith served with Taylor during rioting in California and a subsequent uprising in Mexico, and has only his wife in the States, and Colonel Taylor.  Lieutenant Colonel David &quot;Lucky Dave&quot; Heifetz is Israeli, a refugee after Arab armies have incinerated Israel.  Like Merry Meredith, he basically has no one else other than Taylor.<br />One younger officer not immediately under the command of George Taylor winds up playing a decisive role with him.  Captain Ryder works for Army Intelligence, and his Russian counterpart reveals an intelligence coup - a computer brain from a lost Japanese command aircraft.  The Russian demonstrates a shocking truth about the computer brain that provides the Army with decisive knowledge of the Japanese-Iranian advance.<br />Using advanced helicopter gunships with the most powerful electronic countermeasures ever conceived, George Taylor leads t! he 7th Cav against the enemy, and achieve complete surprise!  - to the double horror of the Japanese commander, Noboru Kabata.  A sort of Admiral Yamamoto of sci-fi, Kabata opposes the violence with which the Japanese have waged this war, and doubly opposes the terrible secret of the Scramblers, a weapon of unprecedented horror that he is forced to use.  <br />What results is a desperate final mission for the 7th Cav - a raid on the Japanese supreme HQ in Baku.  But still more complications erupt, as the Russians commit a disasterous act against Colonel Taylor, and the raid must press on against odds that grow ever worse.<br />Ralph Peters makes his scenario truly believable throughout the novel, and the allegories he draws are further worth a read.  This is the kind of novel that warrants a full-scale TV miniseries.	1998-07-29
US	51042634	R4AJ2MD70NVBH	089526627X	436105989	Bad news: The foreign policy of the New York times	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Much Needed Review Of NY Times Influence	Rarely does there appear a serious work that raises troubling and legitimate questions about how historical events are interpreted.  Often over the years we have had to rethink interpretations of certain historical events, but more rarely have we pondered how we arrived at an interpretation that turned out to be inaccurate.<br />The recent revelation that CNN and Time magazine essentially fabricated a tale of the use of poison gas by the US in the Vietnam War brings to mind the mindset which took root in coverage of that war at the time.  The New York Times was and remains the most influential newspaper in the US, and its presentation of world events has often made for a near-universal view in this country of certain international events.  It is not a pleasant thing to question how a newspaper of such stature might have gotten it wrong, but it is necessary if an inaccurate view of the world reverberates through a paper's coverage for many decades.<br />Russ Braley, a foreign correspondant with the New York Daily News from the 1950s onward, reexamines NY Times coverage of a variety of post-World war II international events, from the simultaneous conflicts in Hungary and the Suez Canal in 1956 through Israel's Operation Peace For Galilee invasion of Lebanon in 1982.  His extensive footnotes help ad substance to his basic contention that the Times, colored by an inaccurate mindset of the world, misinterpreted a great many world events to the detriment of the United States in its international standing.<br />It has now been well established, through such works as Peter Braestrup's superlative work Big Story, that overall press coverage of the Vietnam war left a great deal to be desired. Braley probes further, by going to the events that helped shape the mindset that led to such later coverage.   He examines David Halberstam, whose 1963 reportage on South Vietnam's leadership portrayed Saigon's president, Ngo Dinh Diem, and his family and closest advisors, as buffoonish,dictatorial, and repressive incompetents. !  Braley notes that Halberstam had far less experience with Vietnam than did Marguerite Higgins, the famed New York Herald-Tribune foreign correspondant who at the time was making her seventh trip to Vietnam, yet his sensational stories, in contrast to the more mundane analyses Higgins produced for the Herald-Tribune that August, caught the imagination of the country, and also the Kennedy White House, which arranged for Diem's overthrow that November, barely three weeks before John Kennedy's own assassination.  Braley notes that Halberstam got glory and a Pulitzer for his 1963 Vietnam work, while Higgins' far more reliable analyses went unread, even after the famed Pentagon Papers proved her right all along.<br />Braley's strongest Vietnam-related chapters deal with the Pentagon Papers, Defense Secretary Robert McNamara's 1968 study of how America got to where it was in Vietnam.  Braley is especially strong in picking apart the assumptions made by Daniel Ellsberg, the RAND Corporation employee who illegally made the Pentagon study available to Neil Sheehan of the Times.  Ellsberg was obsessed with the Nuremberg Trials of Nazi officers in charge of the Holocaust and other atrocities, an obsession that had very little to do with Vietnam. Braley's best line is in a footnote where he notes that, following the controversy over the Times' publication of the Papers, the Defense Department declassified the entire study and made it available for reading, yet was disingenuously accused by the Times of censorship.<br />Braley's Vietnam chapters are good, but he concentates on Israel.  Here he is on his most solid footing, having made several tours of Israel during the 1960s and '70s.  Braley interweaves his analysis of the 1973 Yom Kippur War with Watergate, convincingly arguing that the Watergate controversy had less to do with political crimes than with a widespread media desire to overthrow Richard Nixon, a desire whetted when themedia saw Nixon accomplish in foreign affairs what they said he could not, such as his orde! rly withdrawal of American forces from Vietnam and his staunch support for Israel.  The media refused to give Nixon credit for anything, even when it was quite obvious - Nixon was responsible for overcoming bureaucratic resistance to resupplying Israel in the disasterous early phase of the Yom Kippur War, when Israel itself was threatened with possible destruction, yet the Times and the rest of the media would not give Nixon credit for any of that.<br />The Times' influence has waned in recent years, so it makes it somewhat difficult to appreciate just how strong that influence truly was over interpretations of international events.  Braley's last chapter shows what may have been the beginning of the waning of Times influence.  Media coverage of Israel's 1982 military push to destroy Palestinian warbases in Lebanon was often horribly anti-Israel - Braley notes that pro-PLO ads in the Times were reminiscent of the &quot;halcyon days of the Vietnam war&quot; - to the point that a great many embarassments occurred, such as a widely circulated photo of a child in Beirut who appeared to have lost both arms to Israeli munitions; it turned out the child had been injured by the PLO.  Another embarassment was a widely circulated figure that over 50,000 civilians had been killed by the Israeli push, a figure attributed to the International Red Cross but which actually came from the PLO.  Times and television coverage became so bad that, for the first time, media bias became an unfront political issue.<br />Though the proliferation of media outlets since then has helped make the press more honest, episodes such as the CNN/Time magazine poison gas in Vietnam story, and the even more outrageous elevation of recidivist thief and wife-beater Rodney King into a quasi-civil rights saint, still recur, fed by a mendacious worldview that Russ Braley nicely refutes in his book.	1998-07-08
