US	51041582	R13FCWGJ48RXWH	007140290X	416503303	Sarah Laughed	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Lovely, Full of Comfort and Learned Wisdom	Vanessa Ochs has written a lovely book in which she fleshes out the stories of Old Testament women - stories that, very often, are short on detail and leave us with more questions than answers.  In the process of filling in the gaps with imaginative and meditative narratives, Ochs supplies ideas on how modern women may use the lessons of our Old Testament forebearers to ease our souls, bodies and minds.   <br /> <br />The book is divided into six sections, each addressing one aspect of modern womanhood - Being a Friend, Being a Parent, Living in a Woman's Body, and so on.  Each section contains several chapters, each of which focuses on a single biblical woman.  The opening chapter, in a section entitled Being Wise, focuses on Eve.  The imaginative retelling of Eve's story (from Eve's perspective) following a modern-English version of a portion of the bible dealing with Eve, puts an interesting spin on the story and adds layers to what we assume we understood about the oft-blamed and misunderstood woman.  A short essay (I'm tempted to call it a sermon) suggests ways in which we may hear echoes of Eve's story in our own lives - the ways in which we are misunderstood and blamed for the consequences of being too inquisitive, too adventurous and ignoring our own developing wisdom.  Finally, we are invited to \\"Embrace the Gift of Eve\\" and Ochs offers suggestions for making the most of our abilities to explore and learn under our own volition and without apology.  She recommends additional readings, rituals and even a recipe for apple cake to celebrate our existence as learning beings. <br /> <br />Other biblical woman receive similar nuanced tratement.  Miriam, \\"The [Unnamed] Woman of Valor\\", Esther, the titular Sarah and even Job's wife are among those whose stories gain new relevance and interest under Och's able scholarship.  No longer do women seem to hold a lesser place in the bible for Ochs fills in the blanks in their narratives and offers us valuable lessons fortoday and helps us learn their lessons - not just with our eyes and ears, but with our hearts.	2005-02-01
US	51041582	R2JWDPNE5T21EJ	0786712147	926460132	Chasing Churchill: The Travels of Winston Churchill	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Churchillian Beach Reading	If there were, in fact, such a thing as Churchillian beach reading, Chasing Churchill would be it.  The book begins deliciously with an anecdote describing the author's trip with her grandfather on the world-famous Christina - a voyage that marked the beginning of the epic love affair between Maria Callas and Aristotle Onassis. Wow!  From the clothes to the food to the conversation, every detail drips with elegance.<br />From there, though, the book loses steam, for the Christina story is by far the most interesting and well written.  Perhaps because it's the only story related from the author's own memories. Other content comes in three forms:  rehashing of accounts of Churchill's travels throughout his public life (most has been published elsewhere with more detail), descriptions of the author's retracing of many of those travels (not well or thoroughly described) and quotes from people Churchill met or influenced along the way (or, in many cases, their children or grandchildren relating their own family lore of encounters with the great man).  Only the last of these is really worthwhile and there is so little of it that it could have made an excellent magazine article but as a book it feels sparse.  <br />With regards to the accounts of both the author's and her grandfather's travels, there doesn't seem to have been enough of a mandate for a full length book.  As stated, most of the detail regarding Churchill's travels is rehashed from other sources (many of which were also written by Churchill descendents - what would they do without their famous relative?  Seems they write lots of books about him). As for the Sandys' travels, she adds little new detail other than to impress upon the reader her ability to gain access to a series of dignitaries (Fidel Castro among them).  <br />The books acknowledgements thank several of Sandys' relatives for allowing quotation from their books as well as a series of corporatations for their sponsorship.  The effect reinforces the idea that writing the book was more of an ego or money exercise than an attempt at further illuminating one of the last century's greatest men.  It's a shame that a book that started so well ends up on such a poor note.  Clearly, Celia Sandys would do better to rely on her own memories of her grandfather than on attempting new &quot;research&quot;.	2004-07-19
US	51041582	R28NW9BU9P3VHJ	0842384308	771425143	The Da Vinci Deception	Books	1	19	45	N	N	Preachin' to the Choir	Pastor Lutzer has written his debunking of Dan Brown's &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; more or less to serve people who already agree with him.  Condescending and dismissive, Lutzer asserts that willful misunderstandings of the issues presented in Brown's novel in general and the Gnostic gospels in particular are as common as &quot;Elvis sightings&quot;.  And this from a man who claims to wish to serve Christians in their quest to clear up questions raised by the novel!  It seems he is only interested in those who cease asking the questions in the first place - exactly the kind of attitude that has made the church vulnerable to phenomena like &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; in the first place.<br />Opinions Lutzer disagrees with are labeled &quot;politically correct&quot; and more than one question regarding women in the early church is tossed away as being the concern only of &quot;feminists&quot; (you can practically see the sneer on his face as he types this particular &quot;f word&quot;).  Only people who are true believers should apply here- seekers are clearly unwelcome, and are swatted away as fluffy spiritualists and not true Christians.<br />Lutzer may or may not have a valid voice to add to the debate Dan Brown has sparked.  It's hard to say with so much of his writing buried in his own agenda - as a biblical scholar and conservative pastor, Lutzer is clearly among those that would be threatened by any upheaval in traditional Christianity.  It's a shame he couldn't make his case without being so defensive.  I can't imagine that anyone who doesn't already agree with him would find much of value here.  If you're seeking to make heads or tails of some of the outrageous stuff you read in &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; I recommend that you look elsewhere.	2004-07-16
US	51041582	R2SG7FF6CLFHUC	0470854243	289608636	Never Learn to Type: A Woman at the United Nations	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inspiring Story Told By An Amazing Woman	Margaret Joan Anstee's life reads like the script of an epic movie:  financially challenged semi-rural childhood redeemed by her parents' commitment to educating their daughter (not at all common in the early part of the 20th century), the intervention of a few kind and well-connected teachers, and the serious smarts of Anstee herself.  From rationing and loss associated with World War II to the hallowed halls of Oxford to just about every important geopolitical event of the latter half of the last century, Anstee brings to life the people and places that colored her life (and impacted the world!).<br />Anstee writes with a sense of humor and bemusement.  Relating an episode wherein she and a girlfriend are kept as virtual hostages by a pair of elderly women from whom they had rented a room, one gets more a sense of amusement at the whole event rather than an impression of terror.  This attitude of welcoming and seeking adventure and the improbable permeates the entire book and is shown to be a key value that led Anstee into her globehopping life.<br />Anstee relentlessly confronted the limitations that others continuually tried to place upon her.  Her gender, social class, education and even religion could have prevented her from accomplishing even a fraction of what is related here and no one would have cast even the smallest amount of blame.  But she not only overcomes these obstacles but actually triumphs over them.  Anstee is a true inspiration and an amazing woman.  <br />&quot;Never Learn To Type&quot; is a highly recommended book for anyone who wants to learn from the example of one who never quit even when given more than ample opportunity to do so, who wishes a backstage pass to key events of her time or who just wants to enjoy a good story of a life well lived.	2004-07-12
US	51041582	RM97MYG6DNTC5	1558322655	769344985	Crazy for Crab: Everything You Need to Know to Enjoy Fabulous Crab at Home	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Gorgeous and Drool Inducing!	In what can only be considered a &quot;love note&quot; to all things crab, Fred Thompson has created an absolutely definitive guide for crab lovers everywhere.  Beginning with what he calls &quot;The Crab Basics&quot;, a discussion of the types of crab available as well as the various methods for selecting and storing crab products, and ending with a list of crab festivals around the country, &quot;Crazy for Crab&quot; offers something for even the most casual of crab fans.<br />With twelve recipes for crab cakes alone (ranging from the basic to the very fancy - tarragon aioli anyone?), Thompson has more than covered the territory.  Included are soup and appetizer recipes, as well as many for salads and casseroles.  The level of involvement and difficulty for the recipes ranges from the very simple to the relatively complex and for every recipe the likes of Crab Imperial (that is, well known and fairly easy to track down) he includes another for a dish altogether more exotic and modern tasting - Thai crab cakes with chili-garlic sauce, for example <br />From the everyday to the sublime, Thompson has covered it all.  Augmented with discussions and recipes for bay seasoning and homemade tartar sauce, this comprehensive work is recommended for anyone who enjoys these sweet gifts from the sea.	2004-06-27
US	51041582	R1UALDB05BSBMW	1400048109	99775000	Catch a Fish, Throw a Ball, Fly a Kite: 21 Timeless Skills Every Child Should Know (and Any Parent Can Teach!)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Useful and Fun for anyone who loves kids	Dr. Jeffrey Lee has two daughters who have been granted the benefit of his youthful interest in being, as he puts it, an &quot;all-American boy&quot;.  Dr. Lee's Chinese born father had no way of knowing how to, say, throw a baseball but in the face of his four sons' interests read up on the subject and gamefully worked his way through.  Lee thought he'd have it easier the first time he set out to teach his daughter something and he made her cry.  But she eventually learned and they had fun together, but that beginning wasn't terribly auspicious.  And so Lee wrote this book, so that we wouldn't repeat his mistakes but rather could have fun from the start.<br />In this volume that Dr. Lee offers step by step and well-illustrated instructions on how to make and fly a kite, bake bread, catch a fish, build a fire, make a pie, juggle, skip a rock and more.  He notes early on that one doesn't need to be an expert to be a good teacher, a comment designed to calm adult fears of not being &quot;good enough&quot;.  Each chapter includes a briefing on what to know before you start, what equipment/materia is needed, a section on troubleshooting and even some jokes or theme-related funny stories and trivia.  <br />This is a wonderful book for any adult who wants to enjoy the company of a child while relearning and/or teaching these ever so critical &quot;life skills&quot;.  Your kids already think you know everything, why not have a little fun?	2004-06-24
US	51041582	R1WLAB45KRN3SX	0060507829	488482444	The Provence Cookbook	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Patricia Wells does it again!	It seems as though there wouldn't be much left to say regarding the cuisine of southern France.  Scores of volumes have covered the territory but that has not stopped Patricia Wells from venturing yet again into the cooking of Provence.  And for that we can be thankful, for no one writes more lovingly about the people, ingredients and techniques of Provence than she.<br />Among the best recipes included in this volume are those that Wells admits she made up on the spur of the moment using whatever fresh ingredients were available at the time.  In the text accompanying the recipe for roasted cherry tomatoes she notes that she was seeking something to fill space in the oven, noticed that her cherry tomatoes were ripening wildly and created a recipe right then that has since become a favorite.  There is no better lesson in the spirit of Provencal cooking than this - use what is around, treat it well and you will be well fed.  <br />Perhaps more fun that the recipes themselves, if possible, are the profiles of Wells' favorite producers, vendors and restaurantors.  These are the people who inspire Wells herself - the farmers and fisherman, the cooks and the market stal owners.  Her nod to their dedication and professionalism is lovely and shows the many strands that are woven together to eat well in the classical sense.  <br />Technically, the book is well organized and the instructions are clear.  Wells also includes source and contact information for those lucky enough to visit Wells' territory in person.  Definitely recommended for anyone who enjoys true, fresh flavors cooked simply in season.  That Patricia Wells has managed to cover new ground is a wonder, but she has, in fact, done it again!	2004-06-08
US	51041582	R3PVIIB3S6NAHF	0060577495	448373898	Essentially Lilly: A Guide to Colorful Entertaining	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Pretty and mindless	Lilly Pulitzer's name is practically synonymous with carefree living.  From the late 60s on, she has championed a way of life that is virtually unrelated in any way to how most people really live and which had as its symbol her ubiquitous, colorful, flowery shifts.  As the text makes clear, Lilly doesn't care for following rules and, lucky her, she has the means to do and live as she pleases.  The narrative is competently written, echoing closely a recent Vanity Fair profile on Lilly which covered the history of her famous brand and name.  One doubts that Lilly herself did much of the writing, as there is very little first person accounting. Rather, the book is presented as a very long interview with Lilly's input as quotes.  <br />The photography in Essentially Lilly is gorgeous.  Ocean and garden scenes display the young, beautiful and obviously wealthy (not to mention white - there is nary a person of color in Lilly's world, apparently) frolicking per Lilly's mantra of always enjoying oneself.  Lilly's fans will enjoy seeing how the sometimes outrageous prints her clothing line produced stand up through time - vintage sales photos printed next to newer images look just as fresh as they day they were taken.  <br />As for the recipes, well, they're not impressive or complex (WASPs aren't the most enthusiastic eaters/cooks - witness Alexandra Wentworth's &quot;The WASP Cookbook&quot;) but they work and that's what's important.  The ingredients are primarily fresh fruits, veggies and seafoods which are altered as minimally as possible.  In short, they're perfect for the type of Palm Beach life that Lilly loves and encourages - a type of endless summer where it never rains, no one is ever unhappy and you never drop your sandwich into the sand.<br />One is astonished to read about such a rich (in every sense) life presented with such a lack of irony given current political and economic events.  Still, Lilly is so happy and earnest that it's easy to forget when readingEssentially Lilly that very few people actually live as she does and it's hard not to share her enthusiastic approach to life when glancing at the pages of such a lovely book.	2004-06-05
US	51041582	R1QVUDVVIAGCY7	1558322779	188227097	Twelve Months of Monastery Salads: 200 Divine Recipes for All Seasons	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Inspiring in Many Ways	The collection of recipes in Twelve Months of Monastery Salads will inspire any die-hard carnivore to expand culinary horizons.  From the straightforward Salade du Barry (cool weather veggies in a basic vinaigrette) to Heavenly Fruit Salad with Camambert, Brother Victor-Antione has compiled a stunning array of recipes (some rather ancient) and organized them to suit the home cook who is interested in healthy, seasonal eating.<br />The text is particularly useful in that the recipes are arranged by month, so that each salad featured ingredients are in season (in the U.S., anyway), promoting more beautiful and healthy salads created with minimal fuss and expense.  Sure, you might be able to buy an expensive red tomato in February, but why would you when Brother Victor-Antoine tempts with more seasonal offerings including fennel, endive and potatoes?  Classics such as Salade Niciose are presented along side more unusual options like Cabbage, Apple and Pineapple Slaw, increasing the possibility that a reader will try something new on the way to making an old favorite. None of the recipes is complicated, further enhancing the book's usefullness for the home cook trying to eat well during a busy day.<br />One of the greatest gifts given through this work, though, is the realization that practically any seasonal ingredient may be turned into a lovely salad.  Gone forever is the assumption that a salad must be watery light green leaves covered with limp vegetables, stale bread, and viscous dressing.  Instead, readers will note the variety of simple dressings that are only a wisk away and the inclusion of some rather non-standard ingredients (such as caviar, hazelnut oil and clementines) used to create delicious, simple meals.<br />Also worth noting is the collection of quotations (religious and secular) and proverbs used to punctuate the text.  Humbling, inspiring, educational and even amusing - or all of these at once (a French proverb warns that &quot;Beware of the devil,he can hide in a sprig of parsley&quot;) - these inclusions help illustrate Brother Victor-Antoine's committment to God, his order and simple food.  What a great gift that we shares his committment with all of us.	2004-06-03
US	51041582	R1RAW63220LUEF	0740745328	373197290	Millionaire Women Next Door: The Many Journeys of Successful American Businesswomen	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Fascinating Study of Successful Women	We have long known that women and men approach both work and money differently.  The nature of the differences, though, is not what most people expect.  In fact, Thomas Stanley leads the book with an illustration of exactly this:  a man is vociferously insisting that businesswomen are cold, obsessed, unfriendly, tyrannical, unmarried and even dangerous and, as a result, are not worthy of study.<br />Stanley knows otherwise, though, and shows through exhaustive interviews and surveys that successful businesswomen have a great deal in common with their male counterparts in that they are next to impossible to define by qualitative measures alone.  They are married and unmarried, mothers and not, formally educated and self-taught.  One way they differ sharply from the male millionaires Stanley studied in a previous book is in their greater tendancy to allow family members to become &quot;economic outpatients&quot; - persons whose constant need for money is met by the successful person over whom they exercise emotional control.<br />One of the greatest gifts that Stanley gives all women in this book is showing in detail and with great care that one need not be born with a silver spoon to be financially successful (in fact, having ample financial resources while growing up may hinder self-directed success).  In fact, several of his cases are of women who were neglected and/or abused in the most horrible ways and still managed to look within themselves and create success.  It is clear through this work that if a woman truly desires to be free of economic pressure, she can be so regardless of her background and upbringing.	2004-06-01
US	51041582	R5VIY29I3ND1G	0811840190	534670503	Birthday Cakes: Recipes and Memories from Celebrated Bakers	Books	3	42	46	N	N	Not Sure What it Wants to Be	Birthday Cakes is a visually stunning book.  Every photograph is gorgeous, showcasing various cakes in lovely detail.  Even so, it is something of a disappointment.<br />The introductory pages include discussions of the various types of equipment called for throughout the book, and the appendix lists sources for all kinds of baking supplies.  There is even a list of tips and hints for baking the best possible cake.  Ideas for enhancing birthday cakes and celebrations are sprinkled throughout, short discussions of &quot;the birthday song&quot; and birthday candles.  None of the instructions are very thorough or detailed, however, leaving one to wonder if the book's intended use is to be merely decorative rather than a practical baking resource.<br />Fans of culinary literature will be disappointed that so little of &quot;Memories from Celebrated Bakers&quot; is included.  Many of the cakes, in fact, have no such memories associated with them in the text.  Some of the recipes have no context at all, other than brief explanations of where the recipe was originally published. <br />Finally, several of the recipes are ridiculously complicated for the home baker.  &quot;The Princess Cake,&quot; for example, requires following four lengthy pages of instructions!  The cover photo suggests a book of classic birthday cakes suitable for home baking - witness the chocolate cake so fondly remembered from childhood - but, sadly, there are only a handful of these simple types of recipes.<br />In the end, &quot;Birthday Cakes&quot; doesn't seem to know what it wants to be.  Is it merely a collection of pretty pictures with explanatory text?  An instructional text?  Is it for the advanced baker or the home cook?  Is is culinary literature?  It's a bit of each of these, but not enough of any.	2004-05-12
US	51041582	R1399BHYSOJ5RB	1565124219	946647306	Candyfreak: A Journey through the Chocolate Underbelly of America	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Sweet, Rich and Fun	Steve Almond admits he has an addiction.  Rather than this admission being the first step to recovery, though, it's the first step on a delightful journey through the exploration of the history, social impact, family importance, and just plain deliciousness of American candy.<br />Almond covers it all from the dubiousness fruit of jujubees to the most sublime chocolate.  His visits (and attempted visits) to candy manufacturers are revealing, and he plays them for maximum comic effect while simultaneously providing an important business lesson in competitive intelligence and marketing.  Too bad all lessons don't come in this sweet a package!<br />Along the way we meet a variety of folks just as invested in candy is Almond, if in differing ways.  The manager of a newly defunct candy factory will tug at your heart with his tale of globalization and the commodification of a product he came to love, while the author of a diffinitive guide to candy puzzles with his seeming non-engagement in his subject that is at odds with his knowledge.<br />Almond's writing is crisp and amusing, with lots of sidebar sarcastic comments thrown in for comic value.  He makes one critical mistake in the text, though, which should be addressed in future printings - purple necco wafers do NOT suck. They rock.  Any candy freak should know that!	2004-04-28
US	51041582	R3UIEMFL3MQH9U	038550330X	987794801	Posterity: Letters of Great Americans to Their Children	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Wonderful Documentation of Private Moments	Dorie McCullough Lawson has compiled a touching and inspiring array of letters from the famous and infamous to their children.  Spanning centuries, this compilation proves that the concerns and joys of parenting are timeless and universal - from love to finances to courage to character, the authors sought to impart the same lessons to their offspring that parents struggle to teach today.<br />Even non-parents will enjoy the glimpse into the authors' private lives - that which took place offstage, so to speak.  In most cases, the parents understood their place in history and the letters reflect that fact - Elizabeth Cady Stanton writes that she is \\"making the path smoother\\" for her daughters and \\"all the other girls\\".  She describes the scene of her latest speech, allowing the girls to understand the sacrifices that their family is making for posterity.  Through these letters we see that their lives weren't so different from our own - the triumphs we read about in history books came with tremendous compromises and the legends we know from television news make often painful choices between their destinies and their families.<br />This is a wonderful book full of insight and comfort and deserves space on every nursery bookshelf.	2004-04-27
US	51041582	RGPLAFZZ2Q6N5	1580801145	431458523	The Self-Reliant Homestead: A Book of Country Skills	Books	3	47	47	N	N	Breadth without Depth	Charles Sanders has created a good primer for self-reliant country living.  His material covers everything from required tools to canning to fences to homemade gift ideas.  The breadth of the text is truly amazing - in 295 pages of text Sanders covers just about every aspect of establishing a homestead.  <br />However, such breadth in so relatively few pages practically guarantees that no one subject will get its due.  Winemaking, for example, receives only 11 pages and raising various varieties of livestock is covered in just 26 pages.  In other words, this is an excellent book with which to start the process of establishing a homestead, but anyone intending to actually follow through will want to move on to more comprehensive sources fairly quickly. (Sanders displays his seeming love of trivia in a five page discussion of land measurements that inexplicably includes information on a historical method of measuring invented in 1620 by an English mathematician.)<br />One very helpful feature is the book's appendix, which offers sections on weights and measures, methods of figuring a variety of volumes and weights, a chart of the reproductive expectations for various animals and more.  These charts alone are worth the price of the book.  A second appendix of recommended reading and/or websites to turn to when the material mastered within would have rendered the text even more valuable, but Sanders has inexplicably left such a resource out.  To be fair, some recommendations are sprinkled throughout the text but they are not as easily found as if they were compiled all together.	2004-04-22
US	51041582	RA1065HTZOOZU	0609610244	291935288	Garden Parties	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Stunning and Inspirational	Suzy Bales' Garden Party will make you want to, well, have a party.  Michael Luppino's gorgeous photographs, coupled with Bales' clear, simple writing style combine to create a book in which fantasy can become reality and the beautiful is celebrated.<br />Some of the ideas presented are not new (for example, sugar coating flower petals) but are presented clearly and in an easy to follow fashion.  But Bales really shines when she describes her own new concepts like the bird bath serving stand - it's a great idea that deserves the spotlight it receives.  Every page holds an idea that someone who loves home entertaining will want to try.  The recipes all work, to boot (not always a guarantee with cookbooks!).	2004-04-20
US	51041582	R293OHGJCKYB0F	0312303475	783654043	Brilliant (Kick Keswick Mysteries #1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lots of Fun	In Kick Keswick, Marne Davis Kellogg has created a heroine with a life that anyone would desire (well, except maybe for that jewel thievery thing). A beautiful flat, stunning clothes, good food, exceptional wine and a sharp brain to boot - Kick has it all.  And she may be about to get one more object of desire in the love of a handsome, rich and talented lover.  When Kick begins to sense danger both at home and in her work at an ancient auction house, things begin to get really, really fun.<br />Kellogg's crisp, sure writing keeps the plot moving and never gives in to gimmickry.  She's done her research, too, with superlative descriptions of jewels, paintings, and other trifles that fill the auctioneer's life.  The reader actually feels as if part of the room being described - the writing is that vivid.<br />Definitely a recommended read.  Perfect to enjoy on a languid spring night along with a glass of wine.	2004-04-20
US	51041582	R33OCNWENWRD89	0399149988	16258476	Honey Don't	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Honey, Don't Must Have Been Phoned In	Tim Sandlin is not up to his usual standard in Honey, Don't - and he knows it.  Midway through the story he describes a character by describing what she sees as she looks into a mirror.  Later on the same page that very character decides that if she were President she would make it a felony offense for a fictional character to describe herself by looking in a mirror.  Things are bad when the author himself is pointing out the cliches he stoops to using.<br />The plot itself is interesting and deserved better.  Honey and the President of the United States are interrupted mid-assignation and, in the resulting mayhem, the President dies.  Honey and her boyfriend Jimmy (the interruptor) endeavor to get out of their jam and along the way collect a motley assortment of helpers and hangers on, including a down on his luck journalist who provides the brains of the outfit.  <br />Sounds fun right?  It is - if you skip about 125 pages in the middle.  We learn a lot about people who don't matter to the story and the writing is packed with more of the aforementioned cliches.  Would have been a great novella, but as it is it's not really worth the effort.	2004-04-20
US	51041582	R1IO0EI5YZIO5H	0891079572	766616351	The Busy Mom's Guide to Simple Living : Creative Ideas And Practical Ways for Making the Most Out of What You Have	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Thinly disguised advertisement	Despite her claim of seeking to go beyond commercialism into a richer, fuller family life, Jackie Wellwood includes a variety of advertisements into her text. Two of these advertisements are for her own company, a fact she does not disclose.  The final words of the main text would allow an astute and alert reader to pick up the reference, however she should have still made the connection clear.  This lapse is so distasteful that it renders the rest of her work suspect - the reader always wonders if Wellwood is making a recommendation based on its quality or that the enterprise is owned by a friend.	2004-04-20
US	51041582	R2LZWZHVNLGQ87	081296733X	291714474	The Newman's Own Organics Guide to a Good Life: Simple Measures That Benefit You and the Place You Live	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Not much new here	Nell Newman has produced what appears to be a lovingly written appeal to live the &quot;organic good life&quot;.  I can only imagine that she's preaching to the choir here - there seems to be little that would draw in anyone who isn't already convinced that one should shop sustainably, minimize reliance on private transportation and save water.  <br />Her suggestions are blameless - there's nothing to criticize in the ideas themselves.  I just wish that she would have pushed the envelop a bit and worked outside the comfort zone of mass market cliche to try and reach those not already convinced - maybe Susie Suburban who buys some salad dressing already knows to recycle but isn't familiar with other environmentally sound measures - such as rain barrels or car shares.<br />Still, the text has its charms.  Stories of Nell's Ma and Pa (Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman to you and me) remind the reader that this is a real person writing, one who truly believes what she says and has a stake in the information she offers.  Most recommended is the essay on generosity found in the last chapter - I don't know if it was ever reprinted elsewhere, but it should be required reading for every American.	2004-04-19
US	51041582	R1FQVV6KKU9PNF	0738207810	500226735	Calming Your Fussy Baby: The Brazelton Way	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Every Baby's House Should Have It	Once again, T. Berry Brazelton hits a home run.  Calming Your Fussy Baby outlines the steps every parent should take to determine the source of a baby's fussing and soothe the fuss away.  Advice is laid out by age so that parents can go directly to the portion of the book applicable to their baby and specific information is presented for various types of crying and how to identify what kind of cry one is hearing. The advice is to the point and clear and is written in such a way as to assure parents that they are doing just fine.<br />One of Brazelton's charms is that he echoes Dr. Spock's famous statement &quot;You know more than you think you do&quot; for a new generation.  Dr. Brazelton firmly believes that every parent can be a good parent and that the roots of good parenting are within everyone who wishes to tap them.  This book, part of the Brazelton Way series, is a good one to have on hand for the inevitable day when a baby just won't be calmed.  With this ammunition, any parent should consider him- or herself well armed against the fussies.	2004-04-19
US	51041582	R2GLHNZK1QI81J	0375508368	817481243	Morningside Heights: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Story to Draw You In	The reviewer who noted that Cheryl Mendelson entered the rarified world of Laurie Colwin with this novel hit the nail squarely on the head.  Mendelson goes Colwin one better though by adding a mystery to this study of a circle of Manhattan friends and acquaintances.<br />Anne and Charles Braithwaite are living a life under pressure of the forces of capitalism.  Their apartment and belongings take on the air of genteel decay while they stuggle ever more to meet tuition payments for tony private schools and music education for their three children.  An unexpected (or was it?) fourth pregnancy threatens to cut the very fragile thread keeping their household together.  <br />Finding both strength and exasperation in their friends, families and belief systems, Anne and Charles confront the unspoken contract of their marriage while trying to maintain their intellectual and, to their view, moral superiority of their way of life.	2004-04-19
US	51041582	R66K3NLELHLUZ	0471250694	501585009	Prodigal Sons and Material Girls: How Not to Be Your Child's ATM	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Teach your kids to Share, Spend and Save	Nathan Dungan's philosophy for teaching children to be responsible with money has its roots in a church program he designed at the behest of a friend.  Dumbfounded that the kids in Sunday School hadn't thought about the possibility that money could be shared, he developed an approach to financial literacy focused on Sharing, Spending and Saving.<br />Many parents will identify with the profiles and stories of kids who ask for and are given too much.  These same parents will likely be depressed by the evidence Dungan presents surrounding the influence of advertising, promotion and media on kids' inability to distinguish between wants and needs.  Dungan offers solutions to these problems, providing parents with the ammunition to stop the madness and, not only to teach, but to lead by example.<br />Dungan acknowledges that its difficult for any parent to run counter to prevailing cultural imperatives to buy more, more, MORE.  The tools he offers in this book should help make the job much easier for the committed parent.	2004-04-16
US	51041582	R1GS49VA7VMXQV	1883052335	150573820	Contain Yourself: 101 Fresh Ideas for Fantastic Container Gardens	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An Excellent Resource for the Novice Container Gardener	Contain Yourself offers a clever way to teach gardeners to break out of the &quot;marigold/impatien&quot; cycle through creative &quot;recipes&quot; for container gardens featuring more color, height and texture than most novices are able to do on their own.<br />By presenting the material in this fashion, Ouellet gives the reader the tools to ultimately be able to create his or her own container masterpieces by using portions of multiple recipes.  In essence, the reader learns new techniques as the book progresses.  Once the basic techniques are learned, gardeners should be able to design beautiful gardens on their own.<br />The book includes care instructions for containers (which need more frequent watering than traditional gardens) and information on the growing habits of the plants used in the designs.  While it's true that there is not a huge variety of containers used (as noted by another reviewer), how many households have endless supplies of different containers?  I rather like the lesson taught that any one container may be used in many different ways.<br />More seasoned gardeners might find the text and instruction somewhat remedial.  Even so, it's a beautiful book with excellent content for anyone who wishes to learn more about expanding the horizons of traditional gardening.	2004-04-16
US	51041582	R2I5KE8BAOF345	0375421742	449030995	The Pecking Order: Which Siblings Succeed and Why	Books	3	49	51	N	N	Interesting Premise Weakly Presented	Dalton Conley presents a very interesting idea - that is, one's level of success relative to one's siblings is less the result of birth order or genetics (as is popularly believed) and more the result how much family resources (time, money, love) one receives while growing up.  Along the way, he rescues the theory that parental influence is a factor, an idea that has recently been discounted.<br />Although his theories are interesting, the book does not do them justice.  It is repetitive and, while there are many interesting profiles of siblings to illustrate Conley's premise, he does not seem to make use of all the text to give a solid foundation to his ideas.  For example we learn of sisters with ineffectual parents who ended up supporting each other, financial and emotionally.  After college, one went on to become a success while the other stuggled in many ways.  After a page or two of reading their case we learn that one of the sisters suffered terrible injuries in an automobile accident and required two years to physically recover and more years to emotionally recover.  When Conley states that it's impossible to speculate why one sister has done better the reader is incredulous - didn't he just say that one sister had catastrophic injuries?  Might not that have something to do with it?  It's an interesting story, but one that takes up space and is seemling unrelated to the thesis.  The book is riddled with such time wasters added perhaps to flesh out meager content or study results.<br />Still, the book is intermittently interesting and if the reader is patient to work through the superfluous content, it could be an enjoyable and informative read.  Those looking to cut to the chase about inter-familial class or economic differences would do well to look elsewhere.	2004-04-15
US	51041582	R2DD7U027AG40H	0060194286	721886905	Edith Head: The Life and Times of Hollywood's Celebrated Costume Designer	Books	2	17	17	N	N	Would have been a great article	Chierichetti has produced what would have been a fascinating article for Vanity Fair or Vogue, but falls short as a full length biography.  His subject spent many celebrated decades as a Hollywood costume designer but we learn little about Edith Head's actual creative process, her interactions with the stars she dressed or even how she felt about her job (other than she seemed monumentally insecure about her success).  The book is also missing photographic documentation that would help the reader understand how great her impact really was.  In the end, we don't learn much more about Edith Head or her life, but rather we learn the same stuff over and over:  she was a champion dissembler, she had a complex emotional life, she was conflicted over her parentage and upbringing.  Check, check, check.  Anything else?	2004-04-15
US	51041582	R3LT1PBP8ATWQE	0465090826	632135242	The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers and Fathers Are Going Broke	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good start, but not comprehensive	Warren and Warren Tyagi suggest a variety of government regulation to fix &quot;The Two-Income Trap&quot; - the financial state where the two adults in a household both work and there is no way to get ahead, keep up or even create a safety net in the event of a layoff or medical problems.  Many pages are spent discussing credit and bankruptcy regulation, for example. <br />It seems odd to me that little time was spent reviewing tax issues or in making suggestions for updating tax laws to address the &quot;trap&quot; the authors see in middle class family life.  Or, for that matter, why overconsumption is virtually dismissed as a cause for the financial squeeze so familiar to so many (the authors cite a figure less than $200 for an annual cable television expense, which is absurdly low - I know families who pay nearly $3,000 per year).  Several paragraphs address the option of not having children, but no mention is made to having fewer children (many families profiled have three or more kids) or waiting to have them until a couple's financial life is steady.  <br />&quot;The Two-Income Trap&quot; begins the conversation, but falls short of presenting truly workable solutions.  Perhaps the authors wished to foment some kind of social movement to fix the problems they've identified.  If so, the writing - while competent and engaging - is not passionate enough to fulfill the goal.	2004-04-15
US	51041582	R2SCZJRUEVZDXR	1584793082	110281872	Flea Market Baby: The ABC's of Decorating, Collecting & Gift Giving	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Nice to look at, but not much info	Flea Market Baby is a cute lightweight book - well designed but without much content.  Readers looking for solid, workable nursery and gift ideas (whether for crafting or purchase) will be sorely disappointed, although others seeking pretty pictures and examples of excellent photo design may well be delighted.  It seems as though the authors started out with a good idea, but somehow lost their way in execution - what makes for a fun hobby is not necessarily that which translates well into a book.  Ideas for using flea market finds start strong, but rapidly lose steam.  Giving a retro baby shower? Buy old invites and use old decor.  That's pretty much representative of the depth of the content.	2004-04-15
US	51041582	RPXAHAQXWDJ7E	0767912918	34661343	Passing for Thin: Losing Half My Weight and Finding My Self	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A fascinating memoir of self-discovery	Francis Kuffel has written a beautiful, fascinating memoir of self-discovery focusing on her journey through life as a fat girl and then a fat woman, then the transformation into a slender woman.<br />Particularly wrenching are her memories of her childhood spent poaching as much food as possible from the household larder without being disovered and her interactions with an older brother's cruelty.  Her observation that one may have fed (no pun intended) the other is keen, especially since she observes that it's unclear which did the feeding.<br />Kuffel's writing is occasionally forced into a false sounding stylization.  Other than this minor criticism, the book is easy to recommend to anyone interested in a tale of personal transformation, both physical and emotional.	2004-04-15
US	51041582	R293S3PVJARI8E	074348214X	611511632	Swell Holiday	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Slight but good enough	The latest entry into the &quot;Swell franchise&quot; is a slight volume that captures the usual zany approach to life espoused by the authors.  Although light on content, the book is a cute, fizzy read and would make a nice &quot;add on&quot; gift - a stocking stuffer or the like.  With a couple recipes and crafty ideas thrown into the mix of offbeat Swell ideas, it may even become a reference keeper for holiday preparations and clever gift buying.<br />Not the best of the Swell bunch, but still worth a look.	2004-04-15
US	51041582	R1F6HTDWKJ5MG2	0316192945	63681096	American Sucker	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Something's Missing	Although Denby admits his privilege and the folly surrounding his desire to raise $1 million in order to save his apartment from the fall out of his divorce, the reader is still confronted with the question &quot;why?&quot; (why did he risk so much for a piece of real estate, why did it take him so long to realize that &quot;home&quot; is moveable, why could he not see the truth of the people and organizations he became obsessed with).  The answers to these and more questions are hard to come by in the text.  Denby is generous with clever text, but stingy with real explanations for his behavior.<br />Perhaps his story would have worked better, as another reviewer noted, as an article rather than a book length narrative.  The text is padded with numerous quotes from Denby's movie reviews (he points out frequently that reviewing movies is how he makes his living) - a &quot;feature&quot; intended to provide insight to his state of mind at the time certain actions or decisions were made, but serves more often as advertising for his bread and butter work.  Additionally, Denby sets up the story as a sort of mystery - we know the ultimate outcome of his quest for money, but he wants us to be compelled to turn the pages quicker and quicker to find out the details.  Sadly, the device doesn't quite work out - too many of us suffered the same type of economic fall out and it's just not that interesting.<br />Still, it's not a bad book.  Readers who are willing to set aside these, and other, flaws will find it an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon (with liberal page skipping).	2004-04-05
US	51041582	RUG6ZLPRJGU32	1569244375	11087396	How Much Is Enough?: Everything You Need to Know to Steer Clear of Overindulgence and Raise Likeable, Responsible and Respectful Ch	Books	4	43	44	N	N	Great Information, but hard to follow	The authors present a wealth of great information on how to avoid overindulging children (and they are very careful to explain how overindulgence is different than spoiling).  The central overindulgence theme is explored through various topics such as \\"too many things\\", \\"too much freedom\\" or \\"too few rules\\", just to name a few.  These subtopics make it easy to zero in on precise concerns, if necessary, but the text is still an easy and productive read from cover to cover.<br />The problem comes from trying to locate information specific to, say, dealing with toddlers or teens (there are even some strategies presented for dealing with adult children).  Because the subtopics are presented as wholes, with information specific to various age groups mixed together, it may be difficult for a parent who needs information on a specific topic for a specific age group to find what he or she needs most.  Parents are almost compelled to read through pages and pages of non-applicable information that they don't need, just to stumble across that which they do.<br />Particularly appreciated are the portions of the text dedicated to quoting adults who were overindulged as children.  Reading about the difficulties they faced as a result of their upbringings will give extra support to parents struggling with making the transition to supporting parenting from overindulgent parenting.<br />Parents who have the time and willingness to read through the entire text in order to gain the overall picture of overindulgence and its many insidious forms will gain the most from the book.  Parents facing an acute challenge requiring quick strategies and specific suggestions may wish to turn elsewhere.	2004-04-04
US	51041582	R1KYMBO65AGEL2	0972457550	169725116	Wendy Bellissimo Nesting	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Gorgeous Rooms, Light on Detail	Wendy Bellissimo has created a visually stunning resource for any parent who wants to design a unique nursery for their baby.  Unfortunately, this decorating book is light on detail and offers little in the way of specifics for either sourcing the best of non-mainstream nursery patterns or completing the many projects (such as painting a bureau to be suitable for a boy or girl baby) Belissimo describes. Non-designers who are able to translate an image into reality will find a treasure trove of beautiful ideas.  Those who require more how-to information may be disappointed.  <br />The DVD included with the book get points for good intentions - with instructions for making homemade baby food and shower decorations - but is plagued by low production standards and a seeming lack of rehearsal.  Cute, but lightweight.	2004-04-04
US	51041582	R1U7F1KF80HYK2	0806974877	559235957	Creative Cookies: Delicious Decorating for Any Occasion	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A lovely and practical book	Toba Garrett has succeeded in creating a beautiful book, full of lovely cookies that is also practical in that she presents each component of the process separately and then ties them each together in simple, easy to follow directions.  Recipes, decorating technique and specific designs are each presented in such a way that mastery is simple and the user can easily create his or her own designs using the lessons learned.  <br />An excellent book for the creative and curious home baker.	2004-04-03
US	51041582	RIXHXWMCVEKLZ	0316739138	158015044	Your Newborn: Head to Toe: Everything You Want to Know About Your Baby's Health through The First Year	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Just the basics, very quickly	Although seemingly comprehensive from a glance at the contents, \\"Your Newborn Head to Toe\\" presents just the very basics. For example, a discussion of breast- versus bottle-feeding (one of the most critical and controversial questions parents face) uses less than 200 words.<br />Still, I would recommend the book for those who have neither the time nor the patience to sift through more thorough sources, as Dr. Natterson does give enough information to make quick decisions about paths of action or when to call a physician.  Parents who like to feel as informed as possible may wish to turn to another source.	2004-04-03
US	51041582	R2EBFCVRDLNHGS	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun and thought provoking	William Gibson has accomplished a difficult task in writing a tale that simultaneously encourages readers to think about serious issues surrounding corporate life, advertising and the intersection of international and personal interests and also engages on a level that's pure fun and fantasy.<br />Pattern Recognition incorporates commentary on capitalism, whodunnit and a very personal story of grief and redemption in a beautifully written and well executed story.  Readers seeking thought provoking content wrapped in a very timely structure of political and corporate mystery will enjoy the work.	2004-03-17
US	51041582	RR5DOM08M58A3	1400030927	548424525	Jennifer Government	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Heavy concept, light execution	Although the concept of the book is excellent and very timely in light of current business and terror news, the execution of the plot leaves something to be desired.  Characters are rendered with a light hand, leaving much of their motivations a mystery and resulting in a disconnect relative to the serious issues being raised.  Some key turns of the plot are similarly brushed over, leaving the reader to wonder why a scene or scenes were included in the final edit.<br />Still, it's an entertaining read and a fun way to spend a couple hours.  I recommend it to readers who are not looking for a serious indictment of capitalism but rather a fun take on the issues.	2004-03-17
US	51041582	R2X8IMB93XLGIU	0805073124	167469085	The Weight of It: A Story of Two Sisters	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A touching story only a sister could tell	Amy Wilensky points out early in the book that one's siblings are the only citizens of a country that no one else will ever visit. They can, however, write a beautiful travelogue that invites outsiders to glimpse the landscape.<br />The book focuses on Amy herself, rather than her sister Allison, and for this reason offers little detail about the gastric bypass surgery that provides the structure for the story.  We learn a bit about Allison, but she remains somewhat mysterious even throughout Amy's reminiscing of her own role and reaction to Allison's obesity.  We also view the surgery's aftermath from Amy's perspective.  This book is NOT an interview with Allison or an exploration of her own feelings about the transition from obese to slender.  Rather it is the story of a transformation as experienced by her person who is quite possibly the closest to her.<br />Amy Wilensky has written a touching story that only a sister could possibly tell.  And she has written it well, despite her perceptive observation that some people we know so well that we ceased seeing them for who and what they really are.	2004-03-17
US	51041582	R1JZOKG8STF145	0671318209	923789741	Eating Expectantly : A Practical and Tasty Guide to Prenatal Nutrition	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Incredibly Useful	Even though I barely ate a thing the first five months of my pregnancy, I didn't worry about nutrition since this book helped guide me to good food choices that I could also stomach.  As I began to feel better, I was able to get more creative with my menus and loved trying the nutritionally sound recipes.  I particularly liked the suggested menus with titles like, &quot;I don't feel like cooking&quot; or &quot;I feel awful.&quot;  Very recommended.	2002-05-30
