US	51056281	RQ3PR1I2E8T9F	0130449296	411398697	Objects First with Java: A Practical Introduction using BlueJ	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A fascinating and clever approach to teaching Java	This book is intended to be a course text book for an introductory course in Java and Object Oriented Programming. The authors have made a conscious decision to cover the material in a different order to almost all other books on the subject.  You won't find an initial chapter on classpaths, compilation and the main method, there's no pseudo-procedural &quot;hello, world&quot; example. The book leaps straight in to creating objects from classes, examining values and calling methods.<br />There is a trick to all this, of course. The book is based on a kind of Java development environment optimised for teaching called &quot;BlueJ&quot;. BlueJ is a free download, and a copy is included on a CD with the book, along with all the source code examples. I've had a play with BlueJ, and it certainly makes important things like the distinction between a class and an object, and the inheritance structure of the code, much clearer than traditional IDEs.<br />If you are planning to teach a course on Java or OO, you should certainly take a look at this book. Even if you don't run the course exactly as presented, the approach is fascinating. If you are trying to pick up these tricky ideas on your own, this book might also be very useful.  Even if none of those cases apply, the BlueJ software is still a really neat tool for prototyping.	2003-12-20
US	51056281	R3WF4RU5NILL2	1558608362	959957607	JSP: Practical Guide for Programmers (The Practical Guides)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	effective and easy to read, but beware of typos	This is a slim and easy to read book which covers JSP 2.0 in just about the right amount of detail to get a competent Java programmer up to speed quickly and effectively.  As well as JSP there is a also a very brief and shallow introduction to a few other associated technologies: servlets, CSS etc.<br />The writing style is polished and comfortable, but a worrying number of typos and other errata have slipped through the editing process, in particular in the first part of the book.  I suggest it would be a good idea to check the associated web site before relying on the printed code and configuration examples.  I'm also uneasy about the choice of example application used as a case study throughout the book.  While everyone is likely to understand the idea of a bank, the examples given neither make a very convincing bank, nor make particularly good use of JSP technology.<br />This book will be useful for anyone starting work on a web application project which makes use of JSP 2.0, but who doesn't want to wade through the specification documents. If your project still runs on an older version, this book will only be frustrating, but it might just tempt you to upgrade.	2003-11-26
US	51056281	RFEQSUIY6O1YN	073571195X	475980172	Java for the Web with Servlets, JSP, and EJB: A Developer's Guide to J2EE Solutions: A Developer's Guide to Scalable Solutions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good for getting it all together, weak on EJB	This is a big and heavy book, but it needs to be to cover the scope of servlets, JSP and EJB in a practical and detailled way, It includes a lot of real code listings for practical projects. The downside with wide-scope books is that sometimes individual areas get less attention than they might in a more specific book. To some degree that's true for the EJB material in this book. What the book covers well is getting all the various server-side Java APIS to work together. If you want an in-depth treatment of EJB you are much better off getting one of the more focussed EJB books. This book covers Servlets 2.3, JSP 1.2, and some of EJB 2.0.	2003-11-19
US	51056281	R3L992UNATCVH7	0596005644	964617432	eBay Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips and Tools, First Edition	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Indispensable if you buy or sell on eBay	O'Reilly's &quot;hacks&quot; series continues to impress.  I've been buying and selling on eBay for nearly two years now, and have already learned a lot.  In the few days it took me to read this book I learned as much again and more.  Although split into 100 separate &quot;hacks&quot;, this book is surprisingly enjoyable to read from cover to cover, and gives a real sense that the author knows what he is writing about.<br />The book is 1/3 buying advice and 2/3 selling advice. It's way more than just a user manual.  As well as eBay itself, it covers a selection of third party tools and web sites which can help you get the best from your eBay transactions.  Learning from the sections on &quot;dealing with disappointment&quot; and &quot;keeping out deadbeats&quot;, could mean you can avoid those problems yourself.  The tips on how and when to use the eBay &quot;feedback&quot; system are golden.  There's even some detailed advice (with perl code) about how to use the &quot;eBay API&quot; from your own software.<br />If you buy or sell more than one or two things on things on eBay in the next year you really should get this book.  It will easily pay for itself in saved time, shipping costs, and stress; it will help you win the items you really want, and it can probably get you better prices too.  Go out and buy it.	2003-11-13
US	51056281	R1NKZN44R5BJ5C	0072227125	900637223	Blog On: Building Online Communities with Web Logs	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a solid and worthwhile book for a beginner to blogging	This is a well-structured, practical and fairly comprehensive look at blogging.  It covers everything from the basic question of whether you need a weblog, through how to set up and use some of the popular software offerings, to writing, tweaking, and publicizing your blog.  There's also a small section on using blogs in business.  The author comes over as someone who knows his stuff; I like the clear line drawn between using a hosted service, and running your blog on your own machine, for example.<br />As with any book which gives such precise installation and operation details, this one is likely to date quickly when the available software changes.  It also has only thin coverage of more lasting social and community aspects, so if you find a copy that's several years old, make sure the bulk of the book still makes sense before buying.  It's not a secret, but the book has a strong affiliation  with the pMachine blogging software, and in places this seems to crowd out alternative approaches a bit.<br />In general, a solid and worthwhile book for a beginner to blogging. This book gives you all the tools and knowledge to get started, but once you decide that blogging is for you and want to take it further, make sure to check out a wider range of software and deeper, more theoretical, books such as Powazek's &quot;Design for Community&quot; and Blood's &quot;The Weblog Handbook&quot;.	2003-10-27
US	51056281	R1EVB8UHN94OAK	0596003870	831499118	Java Extreme Programming Cookbook	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great book if you remember to use it	This book covers a very similar selection of tools and techniques to &quot;Java Tools for Extreme Programming&quot; by Hightower and Lesiecki, and in a broadly similar way.  Both use the currently fashionable idea of Extreme Programming (XP) to attract readers to a collection of short pieces about a bunch of useful tools for Java programming.  <br />The XP stuff is covered quickly at the start, the meat of the book is in the &quot;recipes&quot;, which walk you through configuring and using tools such as Ant, JUnit, Cactus etc. to build, unit-test and manage the development of a Java project.  <br />The tools and tips the authors have chosen to include are a good representation of current practice, but I have a few reservations about the organization and structure of the book.  My biggest worry is whether the target reader is actually likely to find many solutions. The authors seem to assume that everyone will pore over the several pages of &quot;contents&quot; at the front of the book every time they hit an obstacle, but in my experience they are just as likely to flip through pages or head for the index at the back, neither of which works particularly well.  Worse than that, they may never think to look in the book in the first place - the &quot;Extreme Programming&quot; in the title may help it sell, but it's not something that jumps to mind when you are struggling to get Ant to deploy a web application to Tomcat.<br />That said, I'm glad I've got it, and some of the recipes now have little sticky notes to try and remind me that it's often an unexpectedly good place to look for Java development tips.	2003-10-22
US	51056281	R1OK8Y8XL26SU3	0738207411	262813521	We've Got Blog: How Weblogs Are Changing Our Culture	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A book without a personality	I had such great hopes for this book.  The list of contributing authors reads like a &quot;who's who&quot; of blogging, and I really enjoyed headliner Rebecca Blood's &quot;Weblog Handbook&quot;.  Alas, I was to be disappointed.  This book is not a grand collaborative effort but merely a collection of unrelated essays, interviews and weblog posts.  Some of these articles were new, some were familiar, some were intriguing, some were dull or inconsequential.  Worst of all, these articles are mostly available on the web for free, And there's not even a linking paragraph of new content between them.  One of the distinguishing characteristics of weblogs is that each rings with the individual tone of the author.  Jumbling a bunch of such differing styles together made my head spin.<br />I find it hard to imagine anyone who will get full value out of this book.  Most people will find some of the articles informative or inspiring but also find some a waste of time.  A book to check out from the library and dip in to, but not one to keep and cherish.	2003-09-27
US	51056281	R8QN6G9J5XQI5	0262680939	845013412	Turtles, Termites, and Traffic Jams: Explorations in Massively Parallel Microworlds (Complex Adaptive Systems)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	interesting, but describes an old version of the software	This is a book describing the research of a team at MIT using a version of the educational language &quot;Logo&quot;. Running in a simple graphical environment which supports multiple parallel operation of code in the same shared space. Write a few lines of code for an &quot;ant&quot;, then let 1000 of them loose. The current version of this &quot;StarLogo&quot; system is written in Java, and available as a free download for anyone to play with.<br />The use of Logo is both a strength and a weakness of the approach.  The strength is that the code is concise and easy to understand.  The weakness is that there is only one source of the software, and anyone wishing to try it is limited to the available download.  This would not be such a limitation if the book described the same version, but unfortunately things have moved on a lot since the book was written, and few (if any) of the examples will work without alteration.<br />As well as the development of the StarLogo system, the book covers experiments in emergent behaviour.  Typical sections include how parameter and environment changes can affect the growth and development of simulated ant colonies, and a theoretical basis for those &quot;phantom traffic jams&quot; we have all experienced.<br />This book is certainly interesting if you are interested in developing parallel software simulations, or if you are interested in marginal computer languages, but don't expect the code to work without effort.	2003-09-27
US	51056281	RAAYNYRDBL330	073820756X	821460178	The Weblog Handbook: Practical Advice On Creating And Maintaining Your Blog	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A weblog book for adults	This book is a worthy attempt at a weblog book for adults.  It's not in-your-face evangelism about how weblogs are going to change the world. It's not a hands-on guide to installing and using weblog publishing software. It doesn't have a lot to say about how weblog technology works behind the scenes.<br />What this book does cover (in a measured, thoughtful way), are the personal and social aspects of weblogging.  How to think through whether weblogging is for you. The unexpected but practical benefits of running a weblog, like increased self-confidence and improving your writing skills. How to fit researching and maintaining a weblog into your life, and what to do when it turns from a pleasant hobby into a chore.  How to deal with too many or too few readers.  How to avoid revealing too much personal information, and how to retain the respect of your readers in the face of wildly differing opinions. Also covered is the author's personal view of the history and development of weblogging, and an attempt to classify weblogs into different types.  These aspects, though are secondary to the main focus of the book.<br />The book handles more like a paperback novel than a typical computer book.  It's small, relatively thin, and has no illustrations.  The author has a comfortable, easy-reading style, but is occasionally repetitive.  I guess that's the fallout from years of condensed and pithy weblog posts.	2003-09-24
US	51056281	R1GS3KA3ZTOWI8	027365604X	680933561	Content Critical: Gaining Competitive Advantage Through High-Quality Web Content	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great ideas, somewhat wordy and repetitive presentation	This book is primarily about web site design, although that may not be very obvious from the title.  I wish many more web site authors and publishers would read this sort of book, though.<br />The overall premise is that the job of producing and running a web site has a lot in common with traditional paper publishing.  Central to this idea, and the inspiration for the title, is that whatever the site, people actually visit it to read words.  Not to look at pictures. Not to admire layout or coo at dynamic navigation menus.  To find and read content.  Everything else is at best irrelevant, at worst a distracting nuisance or even a reason to leave the site completely.<br />I wholeheartedly agree with this, and generally follow with the recommendations that the author makes about how to encourage and profit from this understanding: keep things simple, short, and fresh; understand your readers; make it easy to find stuff; treat editing and publishing as key business functions and so on. <br />What I find slightly disappointing is that the book itself doesn't entirely embody these values. The style is repetitive and often long-winded. As a well-edited web site or a conference presentation this would pack a much more powerful punch.  I felt I understood the essential message quite early in the book, and finished reading it mostly out of duty.	2003-09-24
US	51056281	R2LSEVKTS6K07C	0582714842	126653808	How to Write Essays: A Practical Guide for Students	Books	5	3	3	N	N	practical and useful for any course with written work	This thin volume has been my trusty companion through many courses over the last few years.  I bought it originally to help with writing assignments for an evening class, and have referred back to it for every essay-assessed course since.  <br />It is full of clearly-expressed advice on topics such as research and background reading, note-taking, planning, drafting and re-drafting, and editing your work.  It also has plenty of examples of written work, with comments and suggestions for improvements.  The book seems to be aimed mainly at university students, but is still extremely useful in a school or college context, as more and more qualifications use assessed written work rather than an exam at the end of the course.<br />This book certainly helped improve my writing, and I'm pretty sure it has improved my grades.  Best of all, it will still be useful if you take another course.	2003-09-22
US	51056281	R1L1PMVKDLYIII	0907679935	975257160	Teaching, Training and Learning: A Practical Guide	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well structured for use as a teacher training course book	If you are studying for a teacher-training course accredited by FENTO (Further Education National Training Organization) this is the definitive book. I've used it for a City &amp; Guilds 7407 course and a PGCE (Postgraduate Certificate of Education), my wife has used it for a City &amp; Guilds 7307 course. It's carefully divided into chapters covering the sections of a typical course which really helps to constrain the amount of reading you have to do to prepare for a written assignment. The text is very quoteable and referenceable. For a good result, though, I suggest you don't get all your source material from this book, however tempting that may be. Add a few references to books such as Armitage, Minton or Curzon, and you'll be laughing. <br />As far as I can tell from my limited experience, it seems that a typical ILTHE (Institute for Learning and Teaching in Higher Education) accredited course is also very likely to follow the same structure, so I'd guess this book would also be useful for HE teachers too.	2003-09-22
US	51056281	RQ3E8KR7I5XJH	0130338583	17828354	Jini Example By Example	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's just examples, but at least it admits it	If you learn better from an example than from a dry reference, this book will be a great way to get into Jini.<br />It has little by the way of background explanation or reference material, but the example code (and the instructions on installing, configuring and running the various parts of Jini) are comprehensive and detailed, building into two interesting case studies - a chat system and a distributed remote storage system demonsrating all the Jini features.<br />For discussion, hints, tips and experience get &quot;Core Jini&quot;. For a reference get &quot;Jini in a Nutshell&quot;. For the best and most interesting examples, get this book.	2003-09-22
US	51056281	R2BGCG5J1GMJLS	059600088X	610383304	Java Programming with Oracle JDBC	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A workmanlike book which achieves its aims	This book is for Java developers who need to get the most out of using JDBC and Oracle (version 8.1.6). Choosing a specific database allows a lot more detail. Other JDBC books may skip database-dependent parts of the API; this book even gives code examples for the hard stuff. It is slow to read end-to-end, but &quot;dipping&quot; works well - there's almost always a helpful code example nearby.<br />There are problems, though. The author is obviously very familiar with Oracle, but lacks the experience to make comparisons with other products, this book won't help you choose when to use Oracle or whan another system might be more appropriate. Also I noticed other signs of lack of research - he sometimes gets abbreviations wrong, and the Java code is not particularly well-written.<br />The big problem for me is that the book assumes you only ever use Oracle. There is no consideration of code portability, it offers no wisdom about avoiding or encapsulating proprietary Oracle-specific extensions. The techniques in this book could easily lock your product into Oracle, worse, they might even lock your product into a specific version of Oracle.<br />The book has minor discussion of extra features in Oracle8i and Oracle9i, but nothing about JDBC 3. It's less helpful if you are using a version older than 8.1.6, too.<br />If you (or your management) have already sold your soul to Oracle, get this book. If you might need to use other databases, get a more generic book, but keep this one for those times when only a specific Oracle feature will do the trick.	2003-09-11
US	51056281	R1SLPKZGUWXUM4	186100544X	639438852	Professional J2EE EAI	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good on process, sometimes weak on detail	This book is one of those huge co-authored Wrox books which cover a broad area. In this case the topic is Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) - getting old and/or incompatible &quot;legacy&quot; systems to work together. As with many such books, the content varies in quality, detail and usefulness.<br />EAI is a tough area, and the overview and strategy sections are very good. From any other publisher they would be a separate book. The section on EAI process is almost as good, but it just presents a process with no discussion of shortcomings or alternatives.<br />The rest of the book is taken up with technical sections, mostly about the various J2EE APIs which can help an EAI project. It's in this area that the book is weakest. Some of the material is effectively redundant (the EJB, Servlet and JSP APIs are covered much better in many other books, for example) or lacks detail (the key area of client emulation and &quot;screen scraping&quot; gets lots of mentions but nothing about how to do it, etc.). In general this section of the book tends to gloss over the &quot;hard stuff&quot;.<br />I was disappointed to find no bibliography or references for further reading. A book like this is just an introduction to the topic. You'll need to look elsewhere to actually make things work.<br />Despite the negative points, this is still a valiant attempt to cover a large, and often overlooked, area. If you are integrating legacy systems it's well worth the price.	2003-09-10
US	51056281	R1WZHBKNJE5JCH	1558605347	682025860	Philip & Alex's Guide to Web Publishing	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Collected (but a bit jumbled) wisdom of a web pundit	This book covers such a wide range of subjects - HTML, web design, SQL, server configuration, e-commerce, accepting credit cards, scalability, futurology, search engines, choosing a database, the nature of buying software, system admin and loads more, all in great depth - that it's almost impossible to characterize the contents. It's also packed full of beautiful, but completely unrelated, photographs; all taken by the author!<br />Philip Greenspun runs a successful web consultancy with several very busy sites, and seems to have tried to distill all that he has learned into one book. A lot of what he says is very wise, and although I disagree with some of his technology choices, he has thought everything through in great detail. There are quite a few sections which I will re-read and study for my own projects, but many others I will never bother with again. The book's main drawback is its size, which makes it hard to cherry-pick just the bits you need.<br />If you are looking for ways to use the latest technology to make a web site look cool, this is not the book for you. If you are building or running a site or business with lots of users, and you want to keep them and avoid going crazy in the process, you need this book. And the photos really are good.	2003-09-09
US	51056281	R2H5BSZEXUQ8YV	047120708X	657418705	Java Tools for Extreme Programming: Mastering Open Source Tools, Including Ant, JUnit, and Cactus (Java Open Source Library)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Somewhat misnamed, but still extremely useful	You can happily ignore the main title of this book. Sure there's a nod toward extreme programming, but that's not what this book is really all about. This book is a fine introduction to a whole bunch of really useful tools to boost your Java (and especially J2EE) programming. And all the tools can be downloaded, source code and all, for free! <br />There are too many tools to list here, but they include the best-of-breed Ant build system, JUnit, HTTPUnit, ServletUnit and Cactus test frameworks, load and performance analysers and some great libraries for interacting with other servers.<br />Two major test cases are carried through the book to show the benefits of each approach. Each tool covered gets at least a chapter of tutorial, and some of the major ones also get an appendix of API and configuration information.<br />This book was almost too useful to review. It's been open on my desk from almost the minute I got it and has greatly improved many aspects of my development process. If you want to get up to speed quickly and practically on a load of useful, powerful, tools - get this book. Everyone I've shown it to has wanted their own copy ...	2003-09-09
US	51056281	R2TGYD72ULBLOJ	020171499X	245543338	The Wiki Way: Quick Collaboration on the Web	Books	4	23	23	N	N	good introduction to wiki concepts but assumes perl	A &quot;Wiki&quot; is a web site, where every page is editable, by anybody with a browser. It may seem wierd, but it's a very powerful, and successful, idea. The most well-known Wiki has been running since 1994 with thousands of users. <br />This book covers how and why Wiki works, case studies of use, and installing, configuring, and customizing an open-source Wiki supplied on CD. If you know a little about Wiki, and want more, this is a great book. It's sprinkled with practical advice and gives real code examples for enhancements. It can also be inspirational and has got me buzzing with ideas. It has a fine index and all the &quot;tips&quot; are listed for easy reference. <br />Wiki's obscurity is its greatest weakness, though. If you have never heard the term &quot;Wiki&quot;, you would never think to pick up this book. I also found that the assumption of Perl in the example software sections clashed with the language independent nature of the theory and case-study sections. And beware that the book ignores or glosses over a few things which require more effort than in other systems. <br />If you find it clumsy or slow to get things on a web site, if you are looking for an easy way to let people collaborate, or if you just want to make sense of all your scattered notes, read this book.	2003-09-09
US	51056281	R1QSBW2ODAH5ZI	0130676349	789816571	Agile Software Development with Scrum (Series in Agile Software Development)	Books	3	23	29	N	N	A strange mixture of old and new software thinking	This book is a strange mixture of trendy agile methodology and dusty corporate management. My guess is that it has been hurriedly re-edited based on an old draft to try and catch the Extreme Programming (XP) bandwagon.<br />Scrum is fundamentally a management technique, aimed at getting the most from development teams. As such it shares some principles with the new programming methodologies but, tellingly, many of the things which can lower the stress and help make software development fun are absent. There's no &quot;40 hour week&quot;, developers are encouraged to put in whatever is necessary, even if it means working all night. There's no &quot;Pair Programming&quot;, and mere programmers are actively discouraged from contacting the customers or users to get instant answers and decisions.<br />Where Scrum scores is in heavyweight, bureaucratic organizations, and its team isolation techniques can help to get a more extreme approach off the ground. Be prepared to abandon it like a first-stage booster if you do want to get XP into orbit, though.<br />The production quality of this book is poor. The illustrations are laughable pixelated screen dumps, and the same information could have been got across in a book half the size.<br />If you are a team leader of a project in chaos, and need a way out, this might be just what you need. But don't ever forget that your team are people, not just &quot;resources&quot;.	2003-09-09
US	51056281	RG15IK1UCHXJB	0596001002	6520061	Running Weblogs with Slash	Books	4	4	4	N	N	interesting, but not really a blogging book	&quot;Slashdot&quot; is one of the busiest sites on the internet.  Part newspaper, part bulletin board, part personal journal - just a casual mention on Slashdot has been enough to bring major web sites to their knees. Slashdot has lead the way in the high-traffic mass-participation web, and the software is free to download. This book is about the ideas, challenges and designs which keep Slashdot working.  Although the slash software is written in Perl, you don't need to read Perl; there's hardly any source code in the book.<br />When I first saw this book, I thought it would be dull.  Who wants to read documentation for a bunch of Perl scripts?  As it turns out, the book is mostly case study and installation/configuration guide. Although obviously aimed at people considering using the open-source &quot;slash&quot; engine for their own sites, reading about how the Slashdot administrators evolved their software to cope with such astonishingly high traffic is quite inspirational. There is a lot of solid wisdom for anyone involved in maintaining web applications on the internet.  <br />If you are designing or improving a public collaborative web application and want to be able to scale to massive traffic, this book is an important addition to your bookshelf.  If you are curious about the growth and internals of Slashdot, it's worth a read.  If you want a theoretical discussion, code listings, or product comparisons, look elsewhere.	2003-09-09
US	51056281	R1N9TTMDPF1SE4	0201708426	49669404	Extreme Programming Installed	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good solid content, but not the best book to start with	This book is part of a series with &quot;Extreme Programming Explained&quot; and &quot;Planning Extreme Programming&quot;, and needs to be viewed in that context. &quot;Extreme Programming Explained&quot; is the manifesto, designed to get you fired up about the subject but thin on detail. &quot;Extreme Programming Installed&quot; covers some of the same ground, but focuses on real-world examples and advice on how to make Extreme Programming really work. <br />Jeffries and the team are not afraid to face up to things people have trouble with in real situations. The book covers dealing with difficult managers and customers, deciding what needs testing, making pair programming work for you, and lots more. The bulk of the book goes through the practices of Extreme Programming step by step, but some of the most useful stuff is contained in the so-called &quot;bonus tracks&quot; which appear at the end. The book also has a large and interesting annotated bibliography. Well worth reading, but I'd recommend that you start with &quot;Extreme Programming Explained&quot;, then read this one if you like the idea, but want a more practical approach.	2003-09-07
US	51056281	R23TP422504U2P	0201710919	891410653	Planning Extreme Programming	Books	4	7	7	N	N	crackles with ideas and fleshes out more of XP	Kent Beck and Martin Fowler have to be something of a &quot;dream team&quot; for a computer book. Not only was this book informative and interesting, but I actually enjoyed reading it. The book crackles with ideas and sparkles with a subtle wit. <br />The content of the book covers all aspects of planning, managing and tracking progress on an XP (Extreme Programming) project and is a worthy companion to Kent Beck's anthemic XP Explained. Hard stuff missed out from the earlier work such as how to estimate how long things will take, how to write user stories and how to organize the details of iterations and releases is explained in a straightforward way. It also introduces a few new key XP concepts, showing that this radical methodology didn't spring fully formed into the mind of Beck, but is still evolving. One such key is &quot;Yesterdays Weather&quot;, the idea that you can't go far wrong by using past performance as an initial guess for future results. <br />If you are at all intrigued by the new &quot;agile&quot; methodologies, read XP Explained and then this one. Then buy a few more copies for your management.	2003-09-07
US	51056281	RK2107XWU30I	1565927591	342686405	Jini in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The format doesn't really suit the topic	You know what you are getting with the typical O'Reilly &quot;Nutshell&quot; book, and this one is no exception. It's about half tutorial/introduction and half API/service reference and (just about) small enough to carry around. Just the facts, Ma'am <br />This edition covers Jini 1.0 in detail, with a glance at some of the 1.1 features. Don't let that worry you, though - Jini 1.1 and 1.2 only add a few new classes, services and tools, and a full understanding of Jini 1.0 is still vital. The introductory text is concise, and doesn't offer much by way of insight or experience. The examples in the tutorial are minimal and don't quite give enough information on installing and running the full set of services, but they cover enough of the API to be useful in almost all cases.<br />If you need an API/service/tool reference for Jini 1.0, or a handy set of code snippets to solve your immediate head-scratchers, this is great. If you want to learn and understand Jini in depth or track the very latest API changes, you are better off with (for example) &quot;Core Jini&quot;.	2003-09-06
US	51056281	R3FVH5G987CBYW	0130894087	6582697	Core Jini (2nd Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Too big for a reference, but generally well structured	At just over 6cm (2.5 inches), it's a thick, heavy, book and the spine bends alarmingly as you read it. Despite this it's surprisingly readable, but I wouldn't want to carry it about with me.<br />This book covers Jini 1.1, and takes great pains to spell out everything you need to do compile and run the examples, as well as listing the code. It's comforting to see complete command lines for Windows and Unix in every case. There are code listings for all of the major areas and a couple of non-trivial worked examples but for a book this size there is not a lot of code. A working knowledge of Java and at least a passing acquaintance with RMI is assumed, but you don't need to know any Jini.<br />Most of the book is given over to a detailed discussion of the standard Jini services, and how to use them. Each service is covered at two levels - using the basic APIs and using Sun's supplied utility classes. There is also a lot of discussion of the complexities inherent in distributed systems, and how to use Jini to build robust, scalable &quot;self-healing&quot; networks. Scattered through the text are &quot;Core Notes&quot; which offer more detail or different perspectives on the material, and these are always interesting.<br />Too big for a reference, but a detailed and well-structured book to get you up to speed on Jini quickly and efficiently.	2003-09-06
US	51056281	R2QR4EUQND8UEU	0471414352	792248907	Automated Web Testing Toolkit: Expert Methods for Testing and Managing Web Applications	Books	1	7	7	N	N	obsolete and dangerously misleading	I tried real hard to find something to like about this book. I was disappointed. Testing of web sites and web applications is an area which desperately needs some good books, but this is not one of them.<br />The author seems to have cobbled this book together from some old course notes, inserted the word &quot;web&quot; here and there and put some obviously obsolete material in the past tense. It baldly assumes a heavyweight and ill-considered development process, and makes unsubstantiated statements about an unrepresentative selection of software packages. Automated testing is mentioned only in passing, between superficial descriptions of project- and risk- management. Virtually no mention is made of the things which make web applications hard to test - browser differences, massive concurrency, stateless protocols, network issues ...<br />It lacks the depth for a developer or tester, but I can't even recommend this book as a management overview - so much of the content is either dangerously misleading, obsolete, or just plain wrong.	2003-09-06
US	51056281	RFPVMU8EVHRJL	0471200522	145910330	Common Warehouse Metamodel (OMG)	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Worryingly vague and unimplementable	I'll say at the start that this is not my kind of book. I prefer books which are useful, enlightening or both. This didn't seem to be either. From page 3: &quot;The mission of this book is to provide a single, coherent, and comprehensive overview of the OMG's Common Warehouse Metamodel, which is easy to read.&quot;. It may be slightly easier to read than the raw specification, but it's a lot less useful. The most telling point is further down the same page where it admits to really being just an introduction to a forthcoming &quot;Warehouse Metamodel Developers Guide&quot;.<br />For an overview, the book is really short on examples. It's got lots of vague UML diagrams and pretty pictures like you might see on a powerpoint slide, but not a single worked example to show how all the buzzwords and technologies might actually fit together. I also have great problems with their use of UML as a language to actually specify data models, processes and so on. For me UML is a tool to help express intentions to people, not supply details to processing software, but this book seems to ignore the difference.<br />If you know nothing about meta-modelling, and want the sort of information you can get from the slides of a conference presentation, this may be a useful book. If you want to understand the details, or (gosh) actually get a job done, then this book will just frustrate you.	2003-09-06
US	51056281	R3DT5IDTNCHUI4	047084311X	591666429	Web Content Mining With Java: Techniques for Exploiting the World Wide Web	Books	5	13	13	N	N	balanced, practical, and immediately useful	This book may not seem an obvious choice for many readers. It's not about a particular API, certification, or other buzzword topic, and the title can sound dry and academic. Don't be put off! This is a practical, hands-on book which can take your software straight past the hype of web services and into using the resources of the whole internet in your programs right now. With no big middleware downloads, protocol specs, or head-scratching config files.<br />The book walks you through how to read, control and extract information from existing web pages and web applications anywhere on the internet, how to read, send and process emails and newsgroup postings, how to recognise just the text or data you want, and much more. Source code is given for servlets and applets to examine and drive web forms, and usage examples include sending SMS messages and applying decision-making rules to internet share-price data. It's also full of ideas and suggestions to make you want to leap up and get started.<br />When I got this book, I couldn't put it down. A lot of computer books sit on the shelf or send me to sleep, but not this one. Not only is it both topical and useful, but it hits a just-about-ideal balance between code and food for thought. The author has a real knack for useful solutions to complex problems.	2003-09-06
US	51056281	R20PYIMZCABGJ7	1565924835	156774337	Java Enterprise in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not as deep as some, but great value for money	One of the seemingly endless &quot;in a Nutshell&quot; series from O'Reilly, this book follows the basic series format.  A few chapters of concise introduction followed by a detailed, if compressed, API reference.  In this case the book covers a lot of ground - all the Java APIs which form part of the Java 2 Enterprise Edition: JDBC, RMI, CORBA, JNDI, Servlets, EJB as well as some material on JMS.  Check which edition you get as the information dates quickly, though. <br />I was worried when I bought this book that they were attempting to cover too much, but I think they have done a remarkable job.  This book really is the most readable introduction to J2EE I have found so far.  It's just about small enough to carry about (unlike the massive Wrox tomes), and the API reference can help to keep it useful after you've absorbed the introductory material. It even has a basic SQL reference, which you don't get in some JDBC books!	2003-09-01
US	51056281	RP396ADQRT58B	0471165182	279934924	Java Database Programming	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Can be interesting, but don't believe the title	This book is subtitled &quot;Master Next Generation Web Database Techniques&quot;, so you might be forgiven for thinking that it has something to do with the web, or HTML, or distributed computing.  No such luck.  <br />What you really get is mostly a collection of annotated source code listings for a simple SQL interpreter and database using plain text files, padded out with one or two chapters of introduction to SQL and JDBC.  If you are interested in how an SQL database might be written, or you want to provide an SQL/JDBC interface to some plain text files then it could still be a ueful book, but I can't give a good review to any book which so wildly misrepresents itself.	2003-09-01
US	51056281	R269RGIA0NOFBL	0201709376	236764269	Extreme Programming in Practice	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An ideal book to have in your hand when trying to explain XP	I have spoken and corresponded with a lot of people about Extreme Programming (XP). I've encouraged them to read \\"Extreme Programming Explained - Embrace Change\\" and the other XP books that followed it. I've shown them some products produced using XP techniques. But somehow it's always been really hard to explain.  Now I know what was missing. I needed this book.<br />It's not a big book, but it powerfully expresses how XP works and, more importantly, what it feels like.  The authors kept detailed notes when they first implemented Extreme Programming with a fairly simple web/Java/database project, and they give a blow-by-blow account of it.  This is not an idealised case study; they made plenty of mistakes, but they show how the team learned from them.  All the Java code for the project is shown as it is refactored.  All the user story cards and task/time tracking are shown as the project progresses.<br />If you have read or heard about XP but want to know what it's really like, this is the book.  It's not much of a reference, but its a terrific introduction.	2003-09-01
US	51056281	R1U4ZQ4M748X4A	0201710404	83698747	Extreme Programming Examined	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Very patchy, you won't read it cover-to-cover	I was disappointed with this book the moment I saw it.  Most of the books in the &quot;XP Series&quot; are slim and concise.  This one runs to 570 pages - it's not quite a Wrox tome, but it's still too big for my liking.  It's not like the rest of the series in style, either; it's just a collection of thirty-three unrelated articles all by different authors.<br />On one hand, there is probably at least one article in here for anyone interested in XP.  On the other, there are probably several that won't interest you at all.  Some articles describe experiences, some describe other methodologies similar to XP, and some focus on specific practices within XP.  And some are very academic - &quot;stochastic math&quot; anyone ?<br />The articles which comprise this book are so varied that it's hard to give an overall recommendation.  You really need to study the contents page and dip into a few articles to see if there is anything to tempt you to buy this.  As a shared resource for a large team or library it's a good purchase, but for an individual it might be a doorstop after reading the ten pages you actually find interesting.  <br />If you are looking at XP, but not heavily using or researching it, then I suggest you go for some of the other XP series books instead.	2003-09-01
US	51056281	R38F5VMBHQSH6H	1565925157	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Can be useful, but mainly about web PAGE design	Maybe it's because I'm primarily a web software developer and not a graphic artist, but I just can't empathise with a lot of the glowing reviews for this book.<br />I bought this as a companion to the excellent &quot;Webmaster in a Nutshell&quot;, but was somewhat disappointed.  It seems at first glance to be packed with useful stuff, but the core of day-to-day material on HTML, JavaScript, SSI, CSS and so on is virtually the same as in &quot;Webmaster in a Nutshell&quot;, and the rest is mostly hand-waving introductions to topics such as streaming audio and video on the web or, strangely, an Adobe Photoshop tutorial. <br />Even stranger, the one topic it doesn't seem to cover is web design (as I understand the term).  There's nothing about how to create interesting, useful, impressive or &quot;sticky&quot; sites, and precious little about page layout, navigation or information architecture.<br />My recommendation would have to be to think about this book if you want some the tools to pretty-up a page or two, but buy &quot;Webmaster in a Nutshell&quot; for the nuts and bolts, and then look for a decent &quot;web design&quot; book which is actually about web design rather than just web page construction.	2003-09-01
US	51056281	R2AOEKWTTFK41G	0596000359	927958500	Information Architecture for the World Wide Web: Designing Large-Scale Web Sites, 2nd Edition	Books	3	19	35	N	N	Unfortunately the second edition is worse than the first	I think the authors have fellen for too much of their own hype.<br />The first edition (which essentially forms the first half of the second edition) comes over as a book written by two shy and studious librarians, trying to apply their scholarly approach to the strange new world of the web.  They are careful and tentative in their suggestions, and reserved in their presentation.  The book is a bit at odds with most web design tomes, but interesting and thought-provoking, none the less.<br />The second edition reads like a desparate attempt to &quot;puff up&quot; a bunch of practices and approaches that they have been using over the last few years, but have forgotten why they chose to do them in the first place.  It's assertive, strident and often superficial.<br />I'm not surprised their consultancy operation went out of business.  The two shy librarians, seduced by the bright lights of the dot-com boom, have been left in the gutter with nothing but an expensive suit and a hangover.<br />The classic Greek Tragedy.  Pride comes before the fall.<br />I got dispirited, and had to take a break.  My solution was to re-read my copy of Krug's &quot;Don't Make Me Think!&quot;, still my top recommendation of all the web design books I've read; concise, practical, enjoyable.  That cheered me up :)	2003-09-01
US	51056281	R2CE2SZB66O1HI	0764549626	512486822	We Blog: Publishing Online with Weblogs	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A rounded and well-balanced book	At heart this is a straightforward and workmanlike introduction to blogging (the practice of keeping a public, on-line, journal).  It compares features of most of the major blogging tools, describes how to use them, and suggests practical exercises to encourage readers to get started.  It even includes a pretty good glossary and simple HTML reference.  All this should help make it easy to get started in blogging using this book.<br />The authors don't stop there, though.  They add coverage of all kinds of alternative uses of blog technology, from corporate marketing to blogging for team building.  Then they round out the book with chapters on how to publicise and market your own blog, and how to become part of the blogging community. The book also has a chapter on how blogs work, although it seems a bit one-sided, only really covering how one blog system works.<br />This book is a rounded and well-balanced coverage of all aspects of blogging.  It's a little too tied to specific technology, and lacks some raw enthusiasm and sparkle, but still a great book for the first-time blogger.	2003-08-13
US	51056281	R39O6ISUNYQ0X7	0789723107	111838788	Don't Make Me Think! A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Short and effective, makes a powerful point	At last, an author who follows his own advice!  This book is short and easy to read (at 200 pages, I read it in a day), but surprisingly deep.  The book is peppered with colour screenshots, black and white cartoons and pithy quotes and headings.  A pleasure, not a chore, to read.<br />The basic premise is simple; people don't like hard choices or stopping to think, they just want to get something done.  The more self-evident a web site is, the easier it is to use.  Implementing it, and being sure you've got it right, is tricky, though.  Krug covers site and page layout, navigation design, usability testing on a shoestring as well as a broad and engaging model of how people really use the web.<br />It doesn't deal with internationalization at all, seems to assume a mostly static site, and offers no real help in getting your idea to the web in the first place, but will certainly help you make good choices along the way.  Well worth a read, and probably worth a refresher each time you start a new project to keep you on track.	2003-08-10
US	51056281	R19XHXEA6S72AM	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	3	1	1	N	N	worthwhile but stodgy	This book is widely regarded as a web usability classic.  Not everyone loves it, though.  Opinions range from &quot;he is a genius&quot; to &quot;the book is obsolete&quot;.<br />The book is bigger than it need be.  Nielsen argues strongly that web sites should be concise, but that doesn't carry over into his writing.  In several places a paragraph or two seemed very familiar, having been used several chapters earlier.  There are lots of colour screenshots of web pages,  mostly to point out flaws.<br />I agree with most of what he says:  Make things simple, easy and effective for users; make your pages download as fast as you can; provide a site search and so on.  Where he lets himself down is in speculating about what the internet might be like five, ten or even twenty years from now.  This is a complete waste; I got fed up wading through it.<br />It's also too heavy on opinion and too light on practical detail for me.  Nielsen claims he plans to write a &quot;how to&quot; book sometime, but that's no use right now.  The section on internationalization, for example, tantalizingly mentions a few things (US switches go &quot;up&quot; for &quot;ON&quot;, European ones go &quot;down&quot;; don't use baseball metaphors etc.)  then leaves it up to the reader with very little further help.<br />Well worth absorbing, but I won't often dip into it again.  Unless you are a collector, borrow it rather than buying.	2003-08-10
US	51056281	R3J3PCESA7FIJ6	0471130397	836771866	The Web Page Design Cookbook: All the Ingredients You Need to Create 5-Star Web Pages	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Mostly obsolete, but contains a few real gems	I'm not sure this book ever had &quot;all the ingredients you need to create 5-star web pages&quot;.  This book is getting old now, and only covers basic HTML, so it's certainly lacking something in today's world of JavaScript, Flash, DHTML and CSS.<br />What it does have, and what keeps me from discarding it in favour of newer and more comprehensive HTML and page-design guides is its sensible advice on web site design.  It's one of the few books with &quot;web&quot; and &quot;design&quot; in the title which actually covers web site design issues!  It urges readers to think in terms of simple sites with useful content, and consider how the information might be used by people from all over the world as well as the usual issues of download speed and browser compatibility.  If you follow its advice you might actually get a few more customers from outside the USA.<br />Probably not worth buying these days, but borrow it from a friend or check it out of the library if you do see it	2003-08-10
US	51056281	R16LRMUCQJYN7R	0849313511	577730440	UNIX Administration: A Comprehensive Sourcebook for Effective Systems & Network Management (Internet and Communications)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Broad and useful for learning, but not a reference book	This book tries to cover a huge subject range. The back cover claims that it &quot;is a one-stop handbook for the administration and maintenance of UNIX systems and networks&quot;.  In a longer than usual review period I have tried to actually use this book to check these claims.<br />I use a wide range of different UNIX systems on a daily basis, and although it is a well-constructed, detailed book, I was ultimately left unsatisfied.  Despite its bold claims, this book does not really work as a handbook or reference. As a book for someone actually running a range of systems, it just can't seem to fit in enough detail.  During the time I had it on my desk I attempted to look up at least a dozen answers to non-obvious problems.  In each case either the topic was missing from the index entirely, the treatment was too shallow, or it didn't cover the particular system I was actually interested in.<br />There are a lot of very poor UNIX books out there which either stop short at simple user operations, or assume a very specific combination of hardware and software.  This book falls into neither of those traps.  Levi neatly combines general overviews and specific examples, and this would make an excellent university course book. It's a great way to learn about running a UNIX system, but you'll need more detail if it's how you plan to earn your living.	2003-07-25
US	51056281	R2JVI652ORNVRN	1558608680	520016133	Unit Testing in Java: How Tests Drive the Code (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Software Engineering and Programming)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Solid and practical, if occasionally quirky	This book starts by covering general techniques in unit testing, including when and why to do it, how to know if you are doing it right, and how it integrates with other development practices.  This is good stuff, but mostly also covered in other books.  The section on Mock Objects is especially well done though, illuminating an often misunderstood topic area.<br />The latter half is where this book shines. It tackles some of the really tough areas and does it very well.  Singletons, database persistence, asynchronous services, concurrent and distributed systems, web applications and graphical user interfaces; all these are often skipped over as \\"too hard to test\\".  If you've ever found yourself thinking something like that, you need this book.<br />This book is a translation from a German original. Although the translators have done a tremendous job with the technical content, sometimes a phrase or section title, especially in the initial introduction can seem very unusual.  Don't be put off by the quirky language in the early chapters, the meat of the book is well worth reading and putting into practice.  This book is a masterly example of how to convert programming theory into solid, practical advice.	2003-07-25
US	51056281	RKZ6MQHLN3X4X	0735712999	124683967	Blogging: Genius Strategies for Instant Web Content	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Enthusiastic, but concentrates too much on one program	This book tries to cover all aspects of blogging, from a bit of history, through creating and managing a small personal journal, to using blog technology as a corporate marketing tool. Along the way it covers an interesting variety of hints, tips and suggestions on how to make a blog look stylish, how to draw more visitors, and so on.  It even covers an overview of using and writing blog-related applications and some thoughts about what might come next.<br />This book does well at communicating the excitement of blogging.  If you are not raring to have a go by the end of the book, you're probably not cut out for life on the web.  But beware, The world of blogging is astonishingly fast moving and fashion-conscious, so a book such as this can very quickly loose its cutting edge.  <br />The main limitation of this book is the way it concentrates so much on one blogging system (Blogger), and assumes a particular way of working. On the up-side, the system it describes is probably the most popular, but that can so easily change.<br />If you would like to run a blog using the Blogger software or the Blog*Spot hosting service, and want to really get the most out of it, this is a great book.  If you might be interested in other software and approaches, it's less vital, but still contains a lot of useful and interesting material.	2003-07-25
US	51056281	R2L426WY2O6MKK	0735710759	871174033	Design for Community	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The definitive book on getting people involved	This book crops up a lot in recommendations from bloggers, and it's easy to see why.  This book is a broad, yet detailed, treatment of how to start, grow, and manage, online communities. A successful online community (such as the thriving javaranch.com) has a real and valuable sense of belonging.  This book can help you understand both the 'why' and the 'how'.<br />Most of the points made in this book are applicable to everything from email lists, through bulletin boards, to blogs, Amazon reviews and beyond.  Many are also very thoughtful, such as the discussion of setting \\"barriers to entry\\", or the tricky subject of how to gracefully end a community.  The book also includes some interviews with people involved in specific online communities.  These interviews are not as directly useful as the rest of the book, but are an interesting alternative to the author's style.<br />If you are at all interested in gathering or supporting a group of real people using online tools, you need this book.  It doesn't say much about specific tools or technologies, but it has the ever-elusive quality of \\"lasting value\\".  I can really imagine myself re-reading and referring to this book in five or even ten years time.	2003-07-25
US	51056281	RKA6VYKCJAEZV	0596003889	543211850	Essential Blogging: Selecting and Using Weblog Tools	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good guide to some specific software	\\"Blogging\\" (the practice of keeping a public on-line journal to record personal thoughts, observations and links), is hot news on the internet these days.  Many of the best-known names in the business keep such journals, so it's not surprising that the book publishers want to cash in.<br />Things in the world of blogging move fast.  Minor celebrities rise and fall, new software is continually being released, new jargon is invented.  It's hard for a paper book to keep up.  There are some aspects of blogging which are gaining some permanancy. Unfortunately, this book only skims those topics, preferring to spend nearly 200 pages describing how to use particular (late 2002) versions of a few blogging tools.<br />The most incisive and thought-provoking part of the book is the last ten pages - interesting quotes from a range of bloggers.  It's the only bit which shows any of the excitement and \\"buzz\\" of blogging and gets you wanting to get involved.<br />This is not a bad book.  But it's not really the book described in its own advertsing.  If you want a rough guide to comparing, installing and using a small selection of the well-known blog software offerings, this book is right for you.  If you want a more thoughtful and detailed overview of what blogging is all about, why you should do it, what the terminology means, or how it works \\"under the hood\\", keep looking.	2003-07-25
US	51056281	R2D1DO8PJNBYS6	1928994318	912744393	Hack Proofing Your Web Applications	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fragmented and a bit self-important, but still useful	This book aims to be a &quot;one stop shop&quot; covering all aspects of web application security, however your app is written: Java. CGI, Perl, PHP, Active X.  To a large extent it succeeds, and in a surprisingly readable way.  Each chapter covers on aspect of hacking or security, and ends with a summary, a &quot;fast track&quot; checklist, and a FAQ for the topics covered. The book is sold like software - you can register for a &quot;1-year upgrade&quot;, to keep the content fresh.<br />Important topics include both detailed and general hints on how to read and spot security holes in code in different languages; and how to &quot;think like a hacker&quot;, and use hacker tools to test your own security.  Above all, the book emphasizes the need for creative thinking and to avoid producing code carelessly.<br />I know from experience that security is often ignored if it's seen as too hard to understand, plan or test.  Don't be a victim of your own ignorance, read this book.	2003-07-25
