US	51057355	R168NM7H6BPQUY	0471719838	143373088	The Bull Hunter: Tracking Today's Hottest Investments	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Good Insights Enthusiastically Presented	Author Dan Denning's outlook for the U.S. economy is gloomy. We are in a long term bear market for financial assets that began in 2000. The \\"killer 'D's\\", rising household debt, mounting fiscal deficits, and a weakening U.S. dollar, once the gold standard of international reserves, point to anemic returns for investors accustomed to profiting from broad-based U.S. mutual funds. We have heard all this before, but it provides the set-up for Denning's main ideas. His point is that money is being made in bull markets at this time. Investors can find a bull market if they look where the money is flowing. It is going overseas, so go global with your investments and use ETFs (exchange traded funds that track a basket of representative stocks) to hedge the risk of choosing the wrong company in illiquid and often murky markets. To his credit Denning does identify individual companies in the mining, agribusiness, and energy markets. He finds these companies in the U.K., South Korea, Australia, Brazil, and yes, the U.S. Each of the companies he identifies may profit from the global need for food, energy, and construction. The businesses of these companies illustrate the macro trends moving the fastest growing economies.<br /><br />That brings us to China and India. Separate chapters for each country sketch the opportunities and pitfalls of investing directly in these giant emerging economies. These are anecodotal observations, but they are insightful. Denning's depiction of China's economic strategy is especially sobering. China is using its multi-billions of U.S. trade surplus dollars to acquire the production facilities and infrastructure worldwide to deliver natural resources to its economy. It is using our currency to buy hard assets and develop capital intensive industries that have historically made countries dominant. These are industries that employ large numbers of people to make 'things' and create material wealth for an emerging middle class. As I was writing this I saw a newspaper headline, \\"Chinese Firms to Pay $1.42 Billion for [a Canadian company's] Oil Assets in Ecuador\\". India had also shown interest in the assets. The story cited other recent examples of Chinese state run companies bidding on oil and gas properties around the world. As Denning quips, China is not \\"racing out to buy Google\\".<br /><br />Investors who have accepted the need to diversify their holdings into other markets will appreciate the insights and enthusiasm of the author for a strategy that has been working well and holds promise for the future.I saw a newspaper headline, \\"Chinese Firms to Pay $1.42 Billion for [a Canadian company's] Oil Assets in Ecuador\\". India had also shown interest in the assets. The story cited other recent examples of Chinese state run companies bidding on oil and gas properties around the world. As Denning quips, China is not \\"racing out to buy Google\\". <br /> <br />Investors who have accepted the need to diversify their holdings into other markets will appreciate the insights and enthusiasm of the author for a strategy that has been working well and holds promise for the future.	2005-09-16
US	51057355	RQ2HCX7XEM2HB	0071441158	367570228	All About Dividend Investing: The Easy Way to Get Started (All About Series)	Books	3	25	26	N	Y	Best Points are Made Early	This recent entry in the \\"All About...\\" investment series covers a lot of territory, but many of its most useful points are made in the first few pages. Dividend paying stocks should be in your portfolio because their cash flow provides steady income with less price volatility in up and down markets. Dividends offer the possibility of positive returns during extended periods when there is little or no price appreciation in the equity markets. In fact, the authors believe that we are in for a \\"fairly long stretch\\" of disappointing returns based on their reading of bull and bear market cycle history. Retiring baby boomers looking to squeeze more income from their financial assets will want dividend producing stocks - another reason to own them ahead of their demographic buying wave. Recent tax law changes that include a low maximum 15% rate for most common stock dividends have also made these investments more attractive.<br /><br />Much of what follows will be of interest to the Do It Yourself portfolio builder. The authors provide advice on analyzing a company's financial ratios to determine the sustainability of a company's dividend and their ability to raise it in the future. Investors are advised how to diversify their portfolio and suitable criteria for screening their holdings. Managing the portfolio with an automatic stop-loss sell discipline to preserve capital in declining markets is a much discussed and infrequently used strategy. Here it gets close attention. My sense of this book is that readers will pick and choose ideas and pieces of their strategy rather than try to follow their methodology step by step. Chapter 11 on DRIPS, Folios, and Mutual Funds and the final Chapter 12 can be skipped.	2005-07-25
US	51057355	R2U8LDN2KBRUAW	0471479632	416019989	Beating the S&P with Dividends: How to Build a Superior Portfolio of Dividend Yielding Stocks	Books	3	18	19	N	Y	Babyboomers to Corporate America - Show Us the Cash	It makes sense that retiring baby boomers, who by most accounts are better at spending than saving, will want to supplement their retirement income with a stream of dividends from their stock portfolios. A shrinking number of traditional pension plans that guarantee an inflation adjusted income and a general anxiety about the adequacy of social security benefits will only heighten the need for additional income for future retirees. Happily current regulations favor most common stock dividends with a reduced tax rate. More companies appear to be returning profits to shareholders with dividend increases in this post-bubble period. Indeed companies that steadily increase their cash distributions may raise their credibility over companies that retain their profits and parse their definition of earnings.<br /><br />BEATING THE S&P... is a good introduction to some names that could constitute a dividend-growth portfolio model. Almost half the text consists of various lists and company profiles. The Do It Yourself investor will find this information to be a good starting point with the obvious understanding that statistical data is constantly changing. Be aware that REIT distributions get no special tax rate from the IRS (clearly noted). This is also partially true of MLPs (master limited partnerships) which have attractive yields but annoying K-1 tax forms and potentially problematic issues when used in retirement accounts.<br /><br />The authors are also promoting with this book Mergent Inc.'s various indexes which are based on companies that consistently raise their dividends. Some closed end funds that follow this strategy are mentioned. In any event their key point is that dividend producing portfolios tend to outperform pure growth portfolios and the popular S&P 500 Index over the long run. This is a 'get rich slowly' approach to portfolio design that has worked well since 2000 and has a demographic wind at its back that should provide ongoing momentum.	2005-07-25
US	51057355	R3Q4RPMWCRBIPT	0071451277	758409824	Teach Yourself One-Day French (Book + 1CD) (TY: Language Guides)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Introduction - Useful Phrases	I am trying to teach myself French for my vacation getaways to Montreal and the Caribbean. This is an unintimidating audio CD with an excellent choice of words and phrases. I am listening to it in my car and find it easy to repeat segments that I want to hear again (and again, and again, and again). The audio is clear, the pronunciations are distinct. Thanks for the 8-page booklet that let's me check the phrases I am learning! I tried a few phrases in a restaurant in NYC and was understood without being corrected (whew!). There are a number of audio CDs available to learn French, and I intend to listen to them, but this single CD has enough key phrases to make me believe it is a great place to start. I find the CD's fictional framework of learning a language on a flight to France from person in the next seat to be a little unnecessary, but the pacing is excellent and self-effacing humor of the tourist is harmless. I wonder if there are enough  idiomatic differences in Quebecois French to warrant a Canadian version. I am encouraged to see what other titles are available in this series based on the value I am getting from this one.	2005-06-20
US	51057355	R1DZTGMAS5H8SL	140006337X	276765210	Hot Commodities : How Anyone Can Invest Profitably in the World's Best Market	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Add Some 'Things' to Your Portfolio!	This is an engaging introduction to a topic that even many experienced investors find intimidating. In what may be a seminal report on the subject from the Yale School of Management's Center for International Finance, \\"Facts and Fantasies About Commodity Futures\\" [Gorton, Rouwenhorst: 2004] academia gives support to Jim Rogers' real world experience as a commodities investor. The conclusions: Returns on commodities have often been better on a risk adjusted basis than stocks and bonds. Commodities have historically done well when these more traditional investments have suffered and so offer investors seeking to diversify their portfolios a solid alternative. The greatest returns come from investing in commodity futures rather than stocks of companies that produce those same commodities. Notably, commodities have performed well during periods of inflation.<br /><br />Rogers believes the current bull market in commodities began in 1998 and based on precedent should run 17-18 years until 2015. At the heart of the commodity cycle is a supply-demand dynamic that impacts many natural assets differently. Rogers gives readers an introduction to the pricing drivers for oil, gold, sugar, lead and coffee.<br /><br />Chapter 5 deals with the voracious demand for commodities coming out of China. Chapter 6 \\"Goodbye, Cheap Oil\\" looks at the world supply of oil and alternative sources of energy. Both chapters have the potential to alter the reader's investment perspective.<br /><br />Some takeaway nuggets: China is consuming half the world's cement. No major oil field has been discovered in thirty-five years. The U.S. foreign trade imbalance is growing by a trillion dollars every two years. Asians save almost 40 percent of their income (versus 2 percent in the U.S.).<br /><br />Readers of HOT COMMODITIES will not likely gain the confidence needed to invest in sugar futures, etc. They will have a better appreciation for including commodities in a well diversified portfolio. Unfortunately there are few mutual funds that focus on commodities. What is still needed in this reader's opinion is an ETF (exchange traded fund) that tracks a broad-based commodity index.nfortunately there are few mutual funds that focus on commodities. What is still needed in this reader's opinion is an ETF (exchange traded fund) that tracks a broad-based commodity index.	2005-04-01
US	51057355	RY6Q2CNZ0P2T4	0385512236	597559406	The Coming Collapse of the Dollar and How to Profit from It: Make a Fortune by Investing in Gold and Other Hard Assets	Books	2	37	43	N	Y	Good Background Info...Wrongheaded Portfolio Advice	It is the authors' contention that gold will rise to a thousand dollars an ounce. Properly viewed gold's value as a medium of exchange for essential commodities will not actually rise. It will likely still buy the same amount of food or oil absent transient shifts in supply and demand that it has for decades. It will hold its value because gold is money. It will be the U.S. greenback that will lose its purchasing power because it is a money \\"substitute\\" a fiat currency subject to government mishandling (viz. inflation).<br /><br />History provides ample evidence of governments expanding and diluting their money supply to satisfy their various constituencies. Expensive social programs buy stability and growth. At the same time printing more currency to fund these programs avoids having to tax society with the bill. But the question a reader must ask is whether the authors have made a persuasive case for this happening in the immediate future. Investors believing the latter might follow this book's recommendation to build a portfolio consisting mostly of gold and precious metal assets and their mining company stocks. The decline of the dollar and our mushrooming trade deficit's impact on the dollar is a cause of legitimate concern. Richard Duncan's THE DOLLAR CRISIS [2003]covers this topic in forceful detail. But while post World War I Germany defined hyperinflation in just a few years Rome lasted for centuries before its economy imploded. Does the investor divert their resources to build a shelter today gambling that the dollar's end is near, or is it better to continue to address the multiple risks of today by diversifying and gradually weighting their recommendations as evidence mounts.<br /><br />Proponents of gold have always had a survivalist gene in their thinking. It is helpful to their case to remind us skeptics that in 1933 FDR prohibited the \\"hoarding\\" of gold and a year later devalued our currency relative to it by almost seventy percent! But opening foreign bank accounts as the authors suggest has legal and logistical impediments and ignoring currently beneficial investment opportunities outside their metallic frame of reference may be like building a shelter for that inevitably approaching but ultimately uncertain asteroid.<br /><br />The value of this book is not in adopting its too aggressive and too narrowly focussed portfolio recommendations. Readers will profit by recognizing the value of including precious metals in their holdings, and even more so if they decide to diversify their portfolio to include commodities and natural resource assets in addition to stocks, bonds, and real estate. If you should subscribe to the authors' thesis exchange traded funds (ETFs) that track underlying gold indices may be an efficient and more prudent way of adjusting an investor's allocation than storing gold and evaluating individual mining stocks.oreign bank accounts as the authors suggest has legal and logistical impediments and ignoring currently beneficial investment opportunities outside their metallic frame of reference may be like building a shelter for that inevitably approaching but ultimately uncertain asteroid. <br /> <br />The value of this book is not in adopting its too aggressive and too narrowly focussed portfolio recommendations. Readers will profit by recognizing the value of including precious metals in their holdings, and even more so if they decide to diversify their portfolio to include commodities and natural resource assets in addition to stocks, bonds, and real estate. If you should subscribe to the authors' thesis exchange traded funds (ETFs) that track underlying gold indices may be an efficient and more prudent way of adjusting an investor's allocation than storing gold and evaluating individual mining stocks.	2005-03-25
US	51057355	R2SE895ISG3J36	140396131X	218526209	Frenzy: Bubbles, Busts, and How to Come Out Ahead	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Good Ideas...unexciting presentation....	Early on in this helpful but somewhat randomly organized discussion of investment manias the key points are made. Investment bubbles are an inevitable part of economic history because at their source is an exaggerated enthusiasm, an unshakeable faith, for an extraordinary opportunity. Two kinds of bubbles appear over time. Asset bubbles are purely speculative, momentum driven, and ultimately depend on finding a greater fool from whom you will want to unload your gains. The Dutch Tulip Mania of the 1630's is the classic example as are most stock market bubbles and the extravagantly leveraged hedge fund failure of Long-Term Capital Management. When these asset bubbles burst wealth is destroyed and nothing but fear and disillusionment remains.<br /><br />Business investment bubbles are the second type of mania and are more interesting and more complex. At their heart is a new technology such as rail systems and canals in the nineteenth century or personal computers and the internet in our time. When business bubbles burst an infrastructure remains that in time changes society. They burst when the exaggerated hopes for the new technology's immediate widespread adoption and rich-as-Microsoft profits are not instantly realized. Purely speculative asset bubbles are inflated by individual investors. New technology bubbles, on the other hand, find support from a range of sponsors that include venture capitalists and other institutional investors.<br /><br />FRENZY offers useful analysis of \\"bubble dynamics\\" and looks at common warning signs that we are in a bubble and how to respond. Inside the bubble objectivity is degraded, traditional analysis is rationalized away by emotion, and those who disagree with us \\"simply don't get it\\". Haacke suggests that bubbles may become more frequent in the future with today's rapid global movement of capital. Haacke seems undecided about the role or ability of the Federal Reserve to control bubbles (so why bring up the topic?). Academics who cling to the belief that markets are very efficient at establishing value will find this book instructive. And a broader base of general investors may be better equipped to recognize current and future excesses with Haacke's book.cs who cling to the belief that markets are very efficient at establishing value will find this book instructive. And a broader base of general investors may be better equipped to recognize current and future excesses with Haacke's book.	2005-03-25
US	51057355	RVNOUISKECQLG	0764573365	36413120	Preventing Identity Theft For Dummies	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Required Reading	There's an old joke about two campers who hear a menacing bear in the woods. One camper asks for the other's sneakers. \\"You can't outrun a bear\\", he is told. The first camper responds, \\"I just need to outrun you\\". This book will give you sneakers. It will make you a harder target for those people who want your good name and money, because having read the book, the author's recommendations will henceforth seem just good common sense. One day I was walking my dog and bent over to pick up a torn copy of my wife's brokerage statement that had blown half a block from our trash barrel. Get a shredder! Some companies may even allow employees to add their own documents to their secure disposal service bins for sensitive data marked for destruction. Mail that has our names, birthdates, social security numbers, account numbers, etc. can be used by others with fraudulent intent to open accounts for their benefit. Many of us have seen our credit reports, but did you know that a combined report from the three major credit agencies is available and why it might be important to see this side-by-side comparison? Bottom line: If you are a victim of identity theft this book will give you practical advice on who to contact and what forms to fill-out. The information in this book is important and it is presented in a straightforward, highly-readable format. (Editorial note: Chapter 15's \\"Ten Common Scams...\\" lists the \\"Nigerian letter\\", but neither it nor its more recent email mutations are discussed in what follows.)	2005-01-25
US	51057355	R2S8045KPTO3V0	060980748X	998830823	A Trip to the Beach: Living on Island Time in the Caribbean	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	As Enjoyable as a Tropical Breeze	Caribbean vacationers who have ever wondered what it would be like to sell everything and operate a business on their favorite island retreat will find satisfaction in this easy going account of a Vermont couple who move to Anguilla. Anguilla is a sixteen mile long thirty-five square mile patch of land at the northern end of the gentle crescent of islands in the eastern Caribbean nestled close to the flashier and better known St. Martin. Here on this quiet island the Blanchards arrive with their life savings and a dream to open a restaurant. Their story is about the embrace of the gentler life rhythms of this special island paradise. For the Blanchards the secret of \\"island time\\" is a life of breathing deeper and walking slower. Along the way we meet the locals against a background of palms, bougainvilleas, frigate birds, blue skies, and sandy beaches. We follow the Blanchards during the holidays, a local election, a demanding wedding celebration, summer boat races, an employee's dismissal, a break-in, etc. Occasionally we are treated to a recipe, for example, banana bread or better yet, \\"banana cabana\\"! The gentle trade winds that are the text of this impressionistic account build to a natural climax - a direct hit from Hurricane Luis (1995). Stow this paperback in your carry-on bag for quick relief while you wait impatiently to board your fight to the island paradise of your choice.	2004-10-30
US	51057355	RNM45019H0T4P	0393326713	424289102	The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Authorized Edition)	Books	5	4	18	N	N	Safer...not safe	On vacation I like to take an informal survey of what people are reading at the beach or by the pool. I am not seeing copies of this report under umbrellas, and this is no doubt owing to the solemnity of the topic. Vacations are after all a chance to \\"get away\\". But I am anxious to say that this is a riveting narrative which you should pick up and will not likely want to put down. The testimony of 160 witnesses and the extracted information from captured terrorists and detainees is a compelling 'read'. We all know this is a report of great import, but it is also a page turner. Certainly, our enemies will read it.<br /><br />The events of September 11th 2001 are presented in a way that will make you relive your day on that day. The report then moves to the foundations of the Islamist terrorism movement, its ideology of hatred, its funding, and our efforts to fight it. The attack on the USS Cole, the embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania, the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, and the border arrest and thwarting late in 1999 of a planned bombing of Los Angeles International Airport are all put into the context of what was to follow. There is an avalanche of information in the main body of the report culminating in a series of widely reported recommendations, and that is followed by more than a hundred pages of chapter notes in small print. My recommendation is that future editions include a much needed index for referencing the individuals and topics in this important historical record.	2004-09-03
US	51057355	R36YL8VYRMY4G4	006057500X	736712817	Ugly Americans: The True Story of the Ivy League Cowboys Who Raided the Asian Markets for Millions	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	No Big Deal	Ugly Americans represents itself as the true story of expatriate, ivy league, hedge-fund traders making their fortunes in the Hong Kong and Tokyo financial markets. Just don't hold your breath for anything revelatory. And don't expect much in the way of specifics about the Asian markets. Anyone with a GED will be able to follow what these college grads are doing. What you will get is a fast moving story with a lot of atmosphere for the sweaty underside of Asian culture.<br /><br />Simply said, don't fret too much about the supposed veracity of the story, but simply take Ugly Americans for what it is: Beach fare, a quick unchallenging 'read' with familiar fictional cliches. Our hero is an ambitious young innocent from humble origins in an alien world of corruption, money, sex, love, mystery, and violence. Will he arbitrage a cultural divide to escape with his love, money, and character intact?<br /><br />If there is a real problem in all this it is that the story is a decade too late. The financial markets and their Masters of the Universe have lost considerable luster in a post bubble era of deflated expectations, heightened regulatory scrutiny, and terrorist violence. But if you enjoyed Liar's Poker, Rogue Trader, Born to Steal, Boiler Room (movie), or possibly The Firm, you'll find this a harmless diversion.	2004-08-16
US	51057355	R2MGQG9B55EPSB	0060576456	681269061	Deflation: What Happens When Prices Fall	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Challenging Current Wisdom....	The conventional wisdom on the direction of interest rates is that they will rise from multiyear lows in response to the demand for capital in an improving economy. The price for goods and services will also rise, and the Federal Reserve will steadily raise rates to moderate the trend even as it seems to fuel it. Inflation will take root as it always does when the economy grows.<br /><br />It is Chris Farrell's dissenting opinion that a powerful \\"secular undertow\\" is at work in the economy that will push prices for most goods and services lower even as the economy strengthens. This deflationary pressure, this widespread, persistent decline in average price levels is deeply embedded in our economy. From 1776 to 1965 price levels wre \\"essentially flat\\" as society continually found ways to produce goods and sercies more cheaply. Between 1869 and 1896 U.S. wholesale prices dropped almost in half. By one account peacetime inflation from 1800 to the present has averaged just .4% Strong economic growth has occurred during mildly deflationary periods for most of America's history. Improvements in productivity sparked by technological innovation and the need to be competitive routinely pushed costs down. This is the meaning of \\"good deflation\\".<br /><br />The underlying causes for the deflationary bias in our economy today, according to Farrell, are the internet, globalization, deregulation, job outsourcing, warehouse retailers like Wal-Mart, and a central bank vigilant for signs of inflation. China is emerging as a vast engine of deflation. Maybe it's the world's version Wal-Mart. Its economy is growing at a 6% to 8% annual pace. Meanwhile, prices are \\"declining at an average annual rate of less than 2% since 1998\\".<br /><br />Periods of inflation have generally resulted from an unproductive use of capital to finance the cost of wars or from \\"inept\\" central bank monetary policy. America's period of \\"great inflation\\" in the 1970's had these elements. In addition, the Nixon White House decision to formally acknowledge a break betweeen the value of the greenback and the gold bar drove its purchasing power lower in the world market. A cheap dollar was a painful way to pay for the Vietnam War bill and spiking OPEC oil.<br /><br />The Great Depression of the 1930's was a period of \\"bad deflation\\". Using an outdated playbook the Fed raised U.S. interest rates, further contracting the economy, to stem the outflow of gold when it should have focused on getting 13 million unemployed, a quarter of the workforce, off the breadlines. The impact of the Depression is more widely appreciated than its perfect storm of causes, but Farrell's main point is that both the inflationary 1970's and severe deflation of the 1930's were dramatic deviations from the historical norm of mild deflation, extreme cases that have lessons for both financial and monetary policymakers.<br /><br />Farrell's explanation of why steadily rising healthcare and educational costs appear to buck the deflationary trend he describes - they are dysfunctional and inefficient sectors - needs further development to make his case fully persuasive. The last chapters deal with the impact of a deflationary economy on investments and the need for public policy reforms in education, healthcare, retirement savings, etc. But these are heady topics that need more discussion than is possible in this short, insightful book.ixon White House decision to formally acknowledge a break betweeen the value of the greenback and the gold bar drove its purchasing power lower in the world market. A cheap dollar was a painful way to pay for the Vietnam War bill and spiking OPEC oil. <br /> <br />The Great Depression of the 1930's was a period of \\"bad deflation\\". Using an outdated playbook the Fed raised U.S. interest rates, further contracting the economy, to stem the outflow of gold when it should have focused on getting 13 million unemployed, a quarter of the workforce, off the breadlines. The impact of the Depression is more widely appreciated than its perfect storm of causes, but Farrell's main point is that both the inflationary 1970's and severe deflation of the 1930's were dramatic deviations from the historical norm of mild deflation, extreme cases that have lessons for both financial and monetary policymakers. <br /> <br />Farrell's explanation of why steadily rising healthcare and educational costs appear to buck the deflationary trend he describes - they are dysfunctional and inefficient sectors - needs further development to make his case fully persuasive. The last chapters deal with the impact of a deflationary economy on investments and the need for public policy reforms in education, healthcare, retirement savings, etc. But these are heady topics that need more discussion than is possible in this short, insightful book.	2004-08-15
US	51057355	R30JCSTMZGJ7UI	0385509537	563769110	Beating the Business Cycle: How to Predict and Profit From Turning Points in the Economy	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	Smaller Wheels, Still Turning....	It is the nature of free market economies to progress rhythmically through periods of expansion and contraction. It is one of a few interesting observations made by the authors of BEATING THE BUSINESS CYCLE that the intensity of these cycles in the U.S. has moderated over time. Booms and busts have become less common. Recessions rather than depressions, thankfully, are more likely to occur. We have a number of &quot;automatic stabilizers&quot; at work to absorb the shock of general and pervasive slowdowns in the economy. Those stabilizers operate through the mechanics of monetary and fiscal policy. The Federal Reserve controls the flow of money through the economy with the tourniquet of interest rates. The &quot;misguided certainty&quot; that leads to excessive optimism or irrational pessimism by corporations, businesses, and individuals can be tempered by prudent monetary action. At the same time social security, tax policy, unemployment insurance, and bank deposit insurance are some of the ways individuals have been protected from the potentially devastating effects of a negative turn in the economy. So there is reason to believe that the cycles have become less pronounced.<br />Periodically an excessive optimism leads to the illusion that the business cycle has been eliminated, that the economy can grow steadily without retrenchment, without the need to eliminate its own inefficiencies. Mark Twain knew the &quot;gilded age&quot;, the 1920's saw a &quot;new era&quot; at a &quot;plateau of prosperity&quot;, and the 1990's marveled at a &quot;new economy&quot; with information systems and supply management software that could control excesses (e.g. inventory) before they stalled the economy. Ultimately the business cycle is produced by an imbalance of supply and demand. But it is human psychology extrapolating from the successes or failures of recent past experience that fails to see the imbalances building in the economy before a pivotal shift undermines a previously successful investment or business strategy. Renewed caution follows optimism, risk aversion follows speculation, and the cycle repeats.<br />Readers will not find completely satisfying answers to &quot;beating&quot; (viz. profiting from) the business cycle in this short study, because its primary purpose is to introduce readers to the subscription advisory services of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI). This explains the sometimes self-congratulatory tone of having accurately predicted recent shifts in economic activity both here and abroad. As a stand alone work of merit on the topic the authors might consider a brief glossary of key terms and concepts for a future edition.ly successful investment or business strategy. Renewed caution follows optimism, risk aversion follows speculation, and the cycle repeats.<br />Readers will not find completely satisfying answers to &quot;beating&quot; (viz. profiting from) the business cycle in this short study, because its primary purpose is to introduce readers to the subscription advisory services of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI). This explains the sometimes self-congratulatory tone of having accurately predicted recent shifts in economic activity both here and abroad. As a stand alone work of merit on the topic the authors might consider a brief glossary of key terms and concepts for a future edition.	2004-06-29
US	51057355	R3W36NB9BJTV25	0738208523	98354228	The Great 401 (k) Hoax: Why Your Family's Financial Security Is At Risk, And What You Can Do About It	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Important Topics, Blurred Focus	Today's 401 (k) retirement plans will not fulfill the implicit promise they represent for Americans hoping to retire in comfort. William Wolman and Anne Colamosca believe they are structurally flawed and have investment biases that are out of touch with the economic realities faced by Americans in a post bubble period. Their ideal retirement plan would have greater investment options, but with less emphasis on stocks, no restrictions on the ability to buy or sell securities, and little or no stock of the employee's company, with company matches being made as cash rather than stock. This book is a call for reform as well as a marginally useful guide to investing in the new millennium. The text occasionally rambles and the authors' political bias is distracting [ e.g. 401 (k) plans are the result of an excessive faith in the free market, Americans are entitled to their pensions as &quot;citizens&quot; rather than as employees, etc.], but a strong case is ultimately made for reform.<br />It is a key premise of this book that the equity markets will be stagnant for some time. This &quot;stillwater&quot; period of slow growth and anemic returns will be the result of a slowing in IT spending, the sticky consequences of a decade of accumulated debt, an aging population that consumes less, additional accounting scandals that will undermine investor confidence, globalization (viz. offshoring), and a national hubris that misses most of this.<br />At three periods in the 20th century stock market prices became dramatically out of balance with underlying earnings, collapsed, and two decades passed before prices surpassed their bubble highs. Significantly, the general rates of return for equities in the twenty years following the 1901, 1929, and 1966 peaks averaged less than two percent! Even now after the market blowoff in the 1990's stocks appear to be overvalued based on an historical price earnings ratio comparison for the S&amp;P 500. For the entire 20th century stocks traded at a multiple of 12 times their earnings and in the post-1945 era 15 times earnings. Today the S&amp;P 500 is still trading at 22 times earnings.<br />So what kinds of investments will work in this slow growth decade. The authors struggle to come up with persuasive answers. High paying dividend stocks are recommended in the earlier, hardcover edition, but proposed changes to the tax law make the authors wary. Bonds were recommended as &quot;the core&quot; of our 401 (k), but after a string of successful years and with the likelihood of higher interest rates their future performance becomes problematic. Better to stick with Treasury inflation-indexed bonds (TIPs), short term CDs, cash, and some exposure to the expanding Chinese and Indian equity markets or even a high-tech fund. The resulting picture is muddled. Perhaps part of the answer to secure a comfortable retirement lies beyond an imperfect 401 (k). It might include alternative strategies such as immediate annuities, reverse mortgages to unlock real estate equity, commodities and auctioned collectibles as inflation hedges.ed at a multiple of 12 times their earnings and in the post-1945 era 15 times earnings. Today the S&amp;P 500 is still trading at 22 times earnings.<br />So what kinds of investments will work in this slow growth decade. The authors struggle to come up with persuasive answers. High paying dividend stocks are recommended in the earlier, hardcover edition, but proposed changes to the tax law make the authors wary. Bonds were recommended as &quot;the core&quot; of our 401 (k), but after a string of successful years and with the likelihood of higher interest rates their future performance becomes problematic. Better to stick with Treasury inflation-indexed bonds (TIPs), short term CDs, cash, and some exposure to the expanding Chinese and Indian equity markets or even a high-tech fund. The resulting picture is muddled. Perhaps part of the answer to secure a comfortable retirement lies beyond an imperfect 401 (k). It might include alternative strategies such as immediate annuities, reverse mortgages to unlock real estate equity, commodities and auctioned collectibles as inflation hedges.	2004-06-18
US	51057355	R3NISOSFEKUOXI	0060580496	158238080	Rational Exuberance: Silencing the Enemies of Growth and Why the Future Is Better Than You Think	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Big Risks Big Rewards	Mandel's thesis is that economic progress and technological innovation are inextricably linked and the U.S. is uniquely positioned to take advantage of it. Like many good ideas the link seems intuitive, but as Mandel shows, many respected economists are skeptical of the contribution of technology to growth. This book clearly defines its case and argues forcefully for a change in the prevailing wisdom.<br />Mandel distinguishes &quot;exuberant growth&quot; exemplified by the internet boom of the last decade from the &quot;cautious&quot; growth of the U.S. in the 1970's or Europe and Japan today. Cautious growth, &quot;suggestion box&quot; growth, is marked by an emphasis on personal savings, fiscal conservatism, and gradualism. This is &quot;capital fundamentalism&quot;. But there is little evidence to show that a high savings and investment rate without the jumpstart of technological discovery yields much growth. High savings rates in Japan and Europe have not placed these economies in the vanguard of economic progress. Nor has our historically low savings rate stalled our leadership.<br />Exuberant growth in the U.S. economy is supported by our &quot;high performance&quot; financial markets. The efficient way in which huge sums of capital are directed to new ideas by venture capital firms and the high-yield (junk) bond market make it possible for breakaway developments to bubble up through the economy. Stock options, maligned for their high profile abuse, serve an important funadmental role by securing the allegiance of valuable wage earners and making them partners in a risky enterprise.<br />A &quot;hot&quot; economy is a creative one fostering new technologies and economic progress. It is also a risky economy &quot;pulsating&quot; with the flow of capital to the Next Big Thing which may in the end be nothing more than a bubble. The internet has proven to be a disruptive innovation (Clayton Christensen's evocative phrase) creating jobs and wealth. Our efforts in Space and nuclear power have have been less successful. Areas that Mandel lists for possible breakthroughs include biotechnology, energy (e.g. fuel cells), wireless communications, and nanotechnology.<br />High octane economies make for risky markets. Mandel urges greater corporate transparency and multi-year income tax averaging to soften the tax burden of boom years and to cushion the lean ones. Implicit in all this is the need for a strong commitment to research and development in promising technologies.<br />Without technological innovation job markets stagnate, skill sets become commonplace and vulnerable to the cheapest provider (e.g. &quot;offshoring&quot;). Exuberant growth is not assured. Mandel is not shy about naming the economists he sees impeding the necessary support for technological initiatives that foster growth. For Mandel their blind spot is &quot;the single biggest failure&quot; of modern economics. This is a book intended to stimulate vigorous debate.Space and nuclear power have have been less successful. Areas that Mandel lists for possible breakthroughs include biotechnology, energy (e.g. fuel cells), wireless communications, and nanotechnology.<br />High octane economies make for risky markets. Mandel urges greater corporate transparency and multi-year income tax averaging to soften the tax burden of boom years and to cushion the lean ones. Implicit in all this is the need for a strong commitment to research and development in promising technologies.<br />Without technological innovation job markets stagnate, skill sets become commonplace and vulnerable to the cheapest provider (e.g. &quot;offshoring&quot;). Exuberant growth is not assured. Mandel is not shy about naming the economists he sees impeding the necessary support for technological initiatives that foster growth. For Mandel their blind spot is &quot;the single biggest failure&quot; of modern economics. This is a book intended to stimulate vigorous debate.	2004-06-04
US	51057355	R3EL8YPCIGWICT	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	80	86	N	Y	Punctuation Pandemonium	Here's a small book you'll want to stuff in your pocket for that next flight or train trip to pass the time and avoid the embarrassment of having to explain to people you know that you're chuckling over a book on punctuation. Oddly enough the quite funny joke on which the title is based only appears on the dust jacket. But there is enough deadpan humor, historical trivia, and useful information in this modest work to make up for the lapse. If you think punctuation is just a collection of gratuitous furbelows with strict rules intended to keep grade school teachers, snobs, and compulsive personalities preoccupied, take a deep breath. To be sure our author Lynne Truss is a punctuation vigilante and does not take these matters lightly. Offenses to the language put her into a royal snit. Her temperament inclines to &quot;zero tolerance&quot;, but in practice Truss recognizes the need for flexibility. The written presentation of our language is dynamic and continues to evolve. The preservation of punctuation rather than a fussy observance of rules is her goal. Maybe just maybe that preservation motive explains her regret at not mothering the children of the 16th century Venetian printer, Aldus Manutius the Elder, for whom we have to thank for italics and semicolons.<br />Our present day punctuation began with Greek dramatists providing actors with cues for their onstage delivery. With the development of printing, printers became the innovators for this notational art. Over time conventions developed governing their use and were codified as rules. Creative types bristle at most forms of restraint. Gertrude Stein thought commas to be &quot;servile&quot;, semicolons &quot;pretentious&quot;, and question marks &quot;completely uninteresting&quot;. George Bernard Shaw called apostrophes &quot;uncouth bacilli&quot;. Contrast these punctuation anarchists with 18th century essayist Joseph Robertson who saw the &quot;art&quot; of punctuation to be of &quot;infinite consequence&quot; in writing. In the interent age Truss sees email and text messaging posing a significant threat to punctuation. Writers become &quot;senders&quot; with idiosyncratic phrases (e.g.&quot;CU B4 8&quot;), emoticons (viz. smiley faces), and other hasty expediences. Truss can only shake her head to where this may be leading.<br />Truss makes a serious point simply enough. Punctuation provides the traffic signals that keep words from banging into one another. In a complicated, poetic, and dangerous world punctuation can help render thoughts with clarity. Punctuation is both the sign and the cause of clear thinking. In legal, political, and personal matters this should be remembered. Hmm...maybe it's the neurotics' obsession for detail that keeps us all on track.ot; in writing. In the interent age Truss sees email and text messaging posing a significant threat to punctuation. Writers become &quot;senders&quot; with idiosyncratic phrases (e.g.&quot;CU B4 8&quot;), emoticons (viz. smiley faces), and other hasty expediences. Truss can only shake her head to where this may be leading.<br />Truss makes a serious point simply enough. Punctuation provides the traffic signals that keep words from banging into one another. In a complicated, poetic, and dangerous world punctuation can help render thoughts with clarity. Punctuation is both the sign and the cause of clear thinking. In legal, political, and personal matters this should be remembered. Hmm...maybe it's the neurotics' obsession for detail that keeps us all on track.	2004-06-03
US	51057355	RWEKDAF1ROFJU	081575888X	212077894	Coming Up Short: The Challenge of 401(k) Plans	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Balanced and Informative Report	Dire predictions over the future of social security divert attention from a more immediate reality. The fact is that social security benefits only replace about forty percent of pre-retirement earnings for the average worker retiring at sixty-five. Future retirees, our current generation of baby boomers, will need to develop other sources of reliable income to maintain their standard of living. The obvious supplemental program for workers atempting to build wealth is the voluntary 401(k) salary reduction plan. Technically this is a \\"defined contribution\\" plan, different from a defined \\"benefit\\" plan, with greater potential to accumulate wealth. Unfortunately a quarter of eligible workers fail to sign-up for it. Many do not begin to seriously save until they are fifty. Fewer than ten percent contribute to their maximum permitted level. And those who do contribute make basic investment errors at every step of the way according to the authors.<br />Among the authors' other findings:<br />Many employees expose themselves to excessive risk by aggressively stuffing their plans with their company stock. A misplaced sense of worker loyalty or a desire to emulate the success of their corporate leaders may partially explain why participants ignore the first rule of risk reduction, diversification. On the other hand a recent study concluded that twenty-eight percent of all participants had no stock exposure despite the undisputed historical outperformance of stocks over bonds.<br />Few employees buy an annuity with their plan assets. But an annuity contract addresses the biggest risk faced by retirees, namely that they will outlive their nest egg. It is telling that the main purchasers of annuities are large sponsors of defined benefit pension plans whose paramount purpose is to guarantee retirees a life-long stream of income. Surrendering control of a significant sum of money after years of accumulation is a wrenching decision. The choice of an annuity is particularly difficult for those who believe they are skilled at managing their money or who want to maximize their bequests once they pass on. Retirees may also fear extraordinary healthcare expenses that would not be covered by an annuity. My guess, however, is that participants who have never considered an annuity might be swayed here to consider a partial commitment to one.<br />The authors see the need for a set of default choices based on sound financial planning experience that addresses each of the shortcomings they discuss. Participants overwhelmed by their options need some structured simplicity in the process. These are choices that can be confirmed or declined. Workers can only benefit from more professional guidance and education, but employers should not risk liability if the desired investment results are not achieved. COMING UP SHORT has a grasp of the current research on its subject and clearly (albeit dryly) outlines the issues. Experienced financial planners will find this book sobering but will not likely be surprised by its findings. Policy makers will find this a balanced and objective study. Lastly, 401(k) participants who just skim it will be motivated to do more on their own behalf.lt for those who believe they are skilled at managing their money or who want to maximize their bequests once they pass on. Retirees may also fear extraordinary healthcare expenses that would not be covered by an annuity. My guess, however, is that participants who have never considered an annuity might be swayed here to consider a partial commitment to one.<br />The authors see the need for a set of default choices based on sound financial planning experience that addresses each of the shortcomings they discuss. Participants overwhelmed by their options need some structured simplicity in the process. These are choices that can be confirmed or declined. Workers can only benefit from more professional guidance and education, but employers should not risk liability if the desired investment results are not achieved. COMING UP SHORT has a grasp of the current research on its subject and clearly (albeit dryly) outlines the issues. Experienced financial planners will find this book sobering but will not likely be surprised by its findings. Policy makers will find this a balanced and objective study. Lastly, 401(k) participants who just skim it will be motivated to do more on their own behalf.	2004-05-20
US	51057355	R3SMITW4CMU8F1	1894663489	74937973	The Professional Financial Advisor: Ethics, Unbundling and Other Things to Ask Your Financial Advisor About	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Northern Disclosures	THE PROFESSIONAL FINANCIAL ADVISOR is a constructive proposal to elevate the financial service provider (FSP, De Goey's umbrella term) to a professional standard. If a profession is to include by example physicians, dentists, and attorneys, then it assumes the financial advisor as professional will have attained a rigorous level of relevant academic competence and selfless commitment to the public. De Goey reminds us of H.L. Mencken's definition of a professional as one who &quot;cannot be bought&quot;.<br />Here is the crux of the matter. FSPs are paid in four ways: 1)hourly fees 2) as a percentage of client assets managed 3) salary or 4) commission. While the industry is slowly changing its commission driven model, the majority of FSPs earn their income in this way - essentially a bounty for selling financial products. Importantly, some products compensate FSPs more than others. It is this reliance on commission loaded products that compromises the impartiality of the FSP. Doctors don't profit from the direct sale of drugs. Attorneys don't sell divorce settlements. True professionals sell advice not products. An &quot;unbundling&quot; of commissions from investments that are recommended by the FSP would eliminate the inherent bias of recommending one over another. It would also enable FSPs to focus on the critical matter of asset allocation rather than product selection.<br />De Goey's second issue relates to how the FSP is educated. Most FSPs are on their own with respect to continuing their education once they are licensed to sell securities. The industry's version of continuing education is generally product driven, because selling products generates commissions. The fruits of academic research, often at odds with Wall Street wisdom, are just as often ignored. Indeed, The Efficient Market Hypothesis, The Capital Asset Pricing Model, and Modern Portfolio Theory - pillars of modern financial theory - may get only passing consideration from FSPs conditioned to sell product.<br />De Goey's solution to all this is uncompromising. Mandate reform. Eliminate embedded commissions. Establish the CFP designation (Certified Financial Planner) as the professional standard of competence and set a deadline for certification. At the same time educate and persuade FSPs to begin transitioning their business to a fee-based model.<br />This reader favors another approach. Generate grants from the financial services industry for the development of a college level academic curriculum leading to an acceptable certification. This new standard may or may not be the CFP designation. Universities could be encouraged that their newly minted graduates might find employment. Industry regulators, notably the NASD in the U.S., have a mission to promote a higher standard of excellence. Investment firms would have an interest in replenishing their ranks with newly accredited consultants. Over time accreditation would become a de facto requirement for hire.<br />For all De Goey's criticisms, there is a very positive message here. Studies consistently show that FSPs add value to their client's efforts. They should not be embarrassed to be paid for their advice. Here is a book for investment advisors that is not about selling but about the structure of their industry and why it must change. All the more interesting that it has been written by a Canadian. Some specifics pertaining to investment companies, tax laws, and industry regulations will be unfamiliar to U.S. readers, but the differences are inconsequential for the larger issues that are met head-on.ll product.<br />De Goey's solution to all this is uncompromising. Mandate reform. Eliminate embedded commissions. Establish the CFP designation (Certified Financial Planner) as the professional standard of competence and set a deadline for certification. At the same time educate and persuade FSPs to begin transitioning their business to a fee-based model.<br />This reader favors another approach. Generate grants from the financial services industry for the development of a college level academic curriculum leading to an acceptable certification. This new standard may or may not be the CFP designation. Universities could be encouraged that their newly minted graduates might find employment. Industry regulators, notably the NASD in the U.S., have a mission to promote a higher standard of excellence. Investment firms would have an interest in replenishing their ranks with newly accredited consultants. Over time accreditation would become a de facto requirement for hire.<br />For all De Goey's criticisms, there is a very positive message here. Studies consistently show that FSPs add value to their client's efforts. They should not be embarrassed to be paid for their advice. Here is a book for investment advisors that is not about selling but about the structure of their industry and why it must change. All the more interesting that it has been written by a Canadian. Some specifics pertaining to investment companies, tax laws, and industry regulations will be unfamiliar to U.S. readers, but the differences are inconsequential for the larger issues that are met head-on.	2004-03-13
US	51057355	R3DGGVNZIJWM3N	0195158679	70573602	Beyond the Random Walk: A Guide to Stock Market Anomalies and Low Risk Investing	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Detailed and Useful Trading Strategies....	The financial markets give investors a chance to make money when they work - and when they don't. When markets work efficiently they uncover the true value of an asset by pegging its fair price for informed buyers and sellers. When for a variety of reasons markets are inefficient they misprice assets. When the specific circumstances of that mispricing are recognized and persistent (viz. predictable) it is an anomaly. The regularity of anomalies offers investors, at least in theory, the opportunity to profit by taking a position that recognizes the temporary nature of the mispricing before it rights itself. These anomalies are the subject of Singal's study which takes its title from the updated 1970's classic exposition of the efficient market hypothesis by Princeton Economics professor Burton Malkiel.<br />This is a detailed look at ten market anomalies. Singal's goal is to move us well beyond descriptions and academic evidence and offer trading strategies intended to achieve an outsized market return. Each chapter summarizes key points and projects potential returns from implementing the outlined strategy. Additional market anomalies are briefly identified in the final chapter. As a bonus of sorts an appendix gives the most detailed explanation of short selling I have read.<br />From a practical standpoint some anomalous situations would appear to be more exploitable than others. Mergers between public companies occur with some frequency, so an understanding of how to play the merger premium paid by acquiring companies for their target is useful. Changes to the composition of the S&amp;P 500 Index and their impact on stock prices occur with less frequency, but this is balanced by opportunities from the January and &quot;New December Effect&quot; (mark your calendars). From anecdotal observations, I am not convinced by the author's discussion of the Weekend Effect, and the chapter on International Investing seems like a fair argument for diversification rather than an anomaly. The so-called Value Line Enigma identified in the final chapter is perplexing to this reader, since the supposed outperformance of their recommended stocks runs directly counter to a similar study of mutual funds picked by Morningstar. An apples to oranges comparison to some, perhaps, but it is a sufficiently known study to warrant comment. A chapter dealing with currency forward rates will be beyond most non-professional investors. I would have liked to have heard more about spin-offs, the long-term overperformance of &quot;independent&quot; subsidiaries occasionally distributed to shareholders of a parent company. Singal identifies the simpler, &quot;sharper&quot; corporate mission as the reason. Actually, it may be strong sponsorship and generous, upfront management incentives which spark those returns.<br />The question remains, does this serious academic study offer practical trading strategies to investors bent on gain. The answer is that Singal has so many ideas packed into the book that investors will be influenced in the aggregate in their trading decisions. Not to be aware of these market biases exposes traders to more uncertainty and risk than may be necessary.an anomaly. The so-called Value Line Enigma identified in the final chapter is perplexing to this reader, since the supposed outperformance of their recommended stocks runs directly counter to a similar study of mutual funds picked by Morningstar. An apples to oranges comparison to some, perhaps, but it is a sufficiently known study to warrant comment. A chapter dealing with currency forward rates will be beyond most non-professional investors. I would have liked to have heard more about spin-offs, the long-term overperformance of &quot;independent&quot; subsidiaries occasionally distributed to shareholders of a parent company. Singal identifies the simpler, &quot;sharper&quot; corporate mission as the reason. Actually, it may be strong sponsorship and generous, upfront management incentives which spark those returns.<br />The question remains, does this serious academic study offer practical trading strategies to investors bent on gain. The answer is that Singal has so many ideas packed into the book that investors will be influenced in the aggregate in their trading decisions. Not to be aware of these market biases exposes traders to more uncertainty and risk than may be necessary.	2004-02-28
US	51057355	R2YJ2U9TFODPPS	1594200033	464600964	Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Our Character, not the Stars....	Reviewing Roger Lowenstein's highly readable account I am reminded of a Fortune magazine editor's throwaway comment - After the bubble people go to jail. For Lowenstein the ultimate cause of the stock market bubble was an abused interpretation of &quot;shareholder value&quot; that became a mantra for CEO's, accountants, stock analysts, lawyers, bankers, and finally investors. More than an historical footnote, Lowenstein has given us a moral indictment of the culture that produced this costly lesson in excess.<br />The notion of shareholder value and its devolving emphasis in the 1990's on share price rather than underlying business values proved devastating. &quot;Virtually every transgression [of the period] flowed from this simple corruption.&quot; The &quot;misplaced incentive&quot; of lavishly awarded stock options bent the focus of CEO's and senior management to short-term stock price moves. Widespread use of stock options sprang from an academic idea to align the interests of management with shareholders and stimulate American corporate culture. Focusing on short-term quarterly benchmarks simply raised the importance of the stock price at that moment in time to the detriment of the harder job...building the business for the long run. For Lowenstein stock options are the crack cocaine of boardroom culture, the bitten apple of the period's &quot;original sin&quot;. It is this perspective that gives coherence and insight to many of the particulars of the period still fresh in our minds. While there are clearly individual villains in Lowenstein's account, he makes the case for a pervasive ethical breakdown and a culture out of touch with its better standards.<br />Absent to a large degree from this account of the Crash are the dynamics of supply and demand. In the 1990's markets encouraged misallocations in the area of technology and telecommunications. It is easy to forget the urgency behind huge IT capital outlays to update computer systems prior to the stroke of 2000. Serious people considered if lights would go out, ATM's fail. Would there be hoarding of goods and cash? Would there be a recession? Would computers lock-up? Excess capacity and an over-stimulated economy were also major contributions to the bubble, but they get little attention here. This is not Lowenstein's contribution to the discussion. He sees the excesses not as a one-off, inventory event or another turn of the business cycle. His view is less academic, less antiseptic. And it is also a more unsettling view as it is rooted in character and culture.f 2000. Serious people considered if lights would go out, ATM's fail. Would there be hoarding of goods and cash? Would there be a recession? Would computers lock-up? Excess capacity and an over-stimulated economy were also major contributions to the bubble, but they get little attention here. This is not Lowenstein's contribution to the discussion. He sees the excesses not as a one-off, inventory event or another turn of the business cycle. His view is less academic, less antiseptic. And it is also a more unsettling view as it is rooted in character and culture.	2004-02-28
US	51057355	R8CGU789C510W	0470821027	509460397	The Dollar Crisis: Causes, Consequences, Cures	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	U.S. Dollars - Too Much of a Good Thing	There is an unsettling conviction to Richard Duncan's assessment of world trade today, and it is forcefully explained and supported with dozens of charts and tables. An enormous U.S. trade deficit has created a sea of liquidity and easy credit for those nations to whom we are indebted. Without a Global Central Bank to control the money supply, the debt and liquidity it provides keep growing. Nations on the Surplus side of this trading arrangement have few choices with their outsized inflow. If they keep it in their central bank reserves, their currencies will appreciate, their exports, and their economies will slow. If it is absorbed into their economies in the form of low interest rate loans to business and individuals it will spark inflation, excess capacity, and ultimately recession and deflation. Economic crises in Asia and Japan are evidence of this damaging cycle. Consequently, much of our indebtedness, our trade imbalance, returns from our trading partners like a boomerang, to buy dollar-denominated securities. Returning capital adds to asset inflation and creates more credit, more capacity, and fewer opportunities to make a profit.<br />Add this: Our trade deficit is growing and at some point one or more market segments of the economy - direct investments, corporate securities, even government securities - will no longer accomodate this inflow of repatriated foreign capital. At the center of this mess is a structural flaw in our global economy. It began when the U.S. Dollar decisively replaced gold in the 1970's as the basis for value in world trade and became the de facto global reserve currency. In the absence of monetary controls our trading partners accept our promises (our bonds) in place of cash or gold in payment for trade. Up to what point is uncertain. According to Duncan our cumulative indebtedness to the rest of the world is approximately $3 trillion or 30% of our GDP and it increased by five hundred billion last year. A drop in the value of the U.S. greenback seems likely (for Duncan, &quot;inevitable&quot;). If it helps our exporters begin to bridge the import-export gap then let it happen. Longer term, Duncan calls for an escalating Global Minimum Wage in the export industries of our trading partners to stimulate the development of a consumer class to supplement the world engine of American consumption. Currently the International Monetary Fund (IMF) assumes the role of a supervisory central bank for national economies in crisis. Duncan would like to see its role evolve into a Global Central Bank. In an advisory role a GCB just might be politically acceptable and useful in moderating boom-bust cycles caused by trade imbalances. My only caveat with Duncan's thesis is that his case is made and repeated so strongly that it seems to disallow for the possibility of unforseen events leading us to a more benign state..S. greenback seems likely (for Duncan, &quot;inevitable&quot;). If it helps our exporters begin to bridge the import-export gap then let it happen. Longer term, Duncan calls for an escalating Global Minimum Wage in the export industries of our trading partners to stimulate the development of a consumer class to supplement the world engine of American consumption. Currently the International Monetary Fund (IMF) assumes the role of a supervisory central bank for national economies in crisis. Duncan would like to see its role evolve into a Global Central Bank. In an advisory role a GCB just might be politically acceptable and useful in moderating boom-bust cycles caused by trade imbalances. My only caveat with Duncan's thesis is that his case is made and repeated so strongly that it seems to disallow for the possibility of unforseen events leading us to a more benign state.	2003-12-04
US	51057355	R20XLM3QP6IZ3W	0130499277	894934591	Worry-Free Investing A Safe Approach to Achieving Your Lifetime Financial Goals	Books	3	30	32	N	Y	Good Case Overplayed	Investors still numb from their stock market losses in recent years will find some solace in the message of Worry-Free Investing by Zvi Bodie and Michael J. Clowes. They argue that stocks are &quot;not safe in the long run&quot; - a dismissal of Wharton School Professor Jeremy Siegel's extensively documented work on the subject. It is the nature of equity prices to be uncertain. The unpredictable risk of future stock market returns stems from the unexpected, 'random', flow of information that changes investor's perceptions of a company's value. Their argument is a bit heavy-handed. Equity prices may move unexpectedly in the intermediate term, but over the long run they appear to be positively linked with advances in our economy as measured by our GDP and mirrored in our standard of living. That should give some reassurance to long term investors, but the connection gets no mention here.<br />The authors make the case for investing in inflation adjusted, government protected I Bonds and TIPS (Treasury Inflation-Indexed Securities also called Treasury Inflation Protected Securities). Focusing on the major goals of saving for retirement and providing for college education costs, Bodie and Clowes show how much an investor needs to save today. If the calculations seem a bit heady, readers are referred to the book's companion web site 'calculator'. At the heart of worry-free investing as defined by the authors is the defense of an individual's future buying power rather than the building of incremental wealth.<br />Stocks have been widely touted as the only reliable hedge to inflation. However, during the 1970's sustained inflation ravaged stock market returns on an (inflation) adjusted basis. Had TIPS and I Bonds existed, they would have outperformed a diversified basket of stocks. Indeed, most investors today should use TIPS and I Bonds alone, we are boldly told. And all investors should invest at least some of their retirement assets in these two investment tools. Unfortunately for those inclined to follow this last advice, it is not clear if many (or any) company sponsored retirement plans (401(K)'s etc.) offer these products.<br />The author's focus on inflation at a time when it is barely detectable may seem problematic, but a recovering economy, growing budget deficits, and a weakening dollar carry their own consequences. In the end, Bodie and Clowes overplay their case for I Bonds and TIPS. Not all products and services in the economy adjust in lockstep as do these bonds with Bureau of Labor Statistics measures of inflation. As a consequence a near exclusive reliance on these bonds may prove comforting but ultimately ineffective to reach a desired goal. Still, the understanding and use of these investment tools could prove important in a balanced portfolio in the years ahead. Now is the time to look at the issue.rtunately for those inclined to follow this last advice, it is not clear if many (or any) company sponsored retirement plans (401(K)'s etc.) offer these products.<br />The author's focus on inflation at a time when it is barely detectable may seem problematic, but a recovering economy, growing budget deficits, and a weakening dollar carry their own consequences. In the end, Bodie and Clowes overplay their case for I Bonds and TIPS. Not all products and services in the economy adjust in lockstep as do these bonds with Bureau of Labor Statistics measures of inflation. As a consequence a near exclusive reliance on these bonds may prove comforting but ultimately ineffective to reach a desired goal. Still, the understanding and use of these investment tools could prove important in a balanced portfolio in the years ahead. Now is the time to look at the issue.	2003-12-03
US	51057355	R2ZXAIEI0OGL02	0312309791	641956791	The Successful Investor Today: 14 Simple Truths You Must Know When You Invest	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Index and Diversify - Echoes Earlier Books	Readers of Larry E. Swedroe's earlier books (including What Wall Street Doesn't Want You to Know and Rational Investing in Irrational Times) will find themselves in familiar territory here: Active portfolio managers underperform their benchmark indexes by about 1.8% even before taxes. Capturing the &quot;incremental&quot; advantage needed to justify portfolio management fees, trading costs, and tax consequences in an efficient market can happen, but it is more luck than repeatable insight. Exploiting the market's inefficiencies, its &quot;anomalies&quot;, in a consistent way is impractical, because the markets do their job and adjust quickly to news. Ultimately, active stock selection and market timing are a loser's game not worth playing. Indeed, individual stock selection is a gamble for Swedroe since it it an example of &quot;uncompensated risk&quot; that can be so easily diversified away. The problem is that investors underestimate the great number of stocks that do poorly because of the spectacular results of a few. Better to own low cost, tax efficient, passively managed index funds. Diversify across a broad range of non-correlated asset classes to reduce risk. Use large and small company stocks, international and emerging market stocks, bonds, and real estate. Then focus on lowering management fees and owning funds that control capital gains taxes to reduce the drag on returns. So much of this reworks the author's earlier writing that readers will not miss a lot by choosing just one of his books. Still, &quot;The Successful Investor&quot; tries to update the material. And there is some good thinking on the risk of value stocks (versus growth stocks) and their relative performance during inflationary periods. Elsewhere, a case is made for including international small cap stocks (over international large cap stocks)and emerging market stocks in a diversified portfolio. Unfortunately there are few investment products that make these last asset classes available to investors at this time. Investors might be advised to look at the growing number of exchange traded funds (ETF) that shadow indexes at low cost to fill-in a portfolio's asset gaps. Otherwise, Swedroe's ideas direct the investor to building a diversified portfolio for the long run based on an evolving body of sound academic research.to investors at this time. Investors might be advised to look at the growing number of exchange traded funds (ETF) that shadow indexes at low cost to fill-in a portfolio's asset gaps. Otherwise, Swedroe's ideas direct the investor to building a diversified portfolio for the long run based on an evolving body of sound academic research.	2003-11-17
US	51057355	R21OK7YYEWP2TC	0767913744	543858044	Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	A Death in Truro	A brutal murder, the first to occur in thirty years in a famously small town on Cape Cod, that juices the testosterone of local investigators, and stabs the complacency of colorful locals, is Maria Flook's subject. Actually, there are three stories here. At the center is the unsolved murder of an attractive and talented fashion writer Christa Worthington on January 6th, 2002 in Truro, Massachusetts. Unresolved family issues that star-cross Christa's relationships with men, a career that may be idling, and a conflicted drive to balance professional goals and her maternal wants are skillfully detailed by Flook. We also have the author, herself a single mother and nearby resident of the victim, trying to make sense of an irrational event that stains her world like a smashed jar of strawberry jam. Maybe her questioning will &quot;agitate&quot; those in the &quot;circle of opportunity&quot; and help the investigators' efforts. And at the same time we have an election campaign of First Assistant DA for the Cape and Islands, Michael O'Keefe, a key source of direction and information for the author. Divorced, self-confident, and plain-spoken to a fault, we sense a low voltage charge whenever the author and DA meet. Also competing for our attention is the Cape itself separated from the mainland of Massachusetts by a 'river of forgetfulness' a place populated by a crazy quilt of diverse souls seeking their own personal Eden.<br />This book created a squall of controversy reported by a Cape newspaper when its details began to emerge prior to publication. Issues of ethics - selective disclosure by the DA's office to an author-journalist - the writer's blending of supposition with fact, and claims of misquotation by those in the &quot;circle&quot; quickly arose. Some of these won't go away quickly, but one test is that Flook's representation of the events is convincing and consistent. Her perspective on Christa is empathetic. We care about Christa. Christa's failings are never fatal to her characterization. We want this crime to be solved. The author makes no claim to solve the crime, but readers will get a tantalizing hint of her thinking as it bridges two chapters late in the book.<br />Editorial carping: The book's title doesn't quite work (Is the Cape's promise for Christa really 'invisible' or her fatal illusion?). Anecdotal accounts of infamous Cape crimes energize the narrative in the absence of solid revelations (itself a problem for this type of book), but more generally there is too much background on the Cape. There are over-the-top lapses: Christa's infant daughter strokes a mouse by her mother's body; a cat's blood reminds Flook of Christa. These are distractions in an otherwise rewarding investigation.atal to her characterization. We want this crime to be solved. The author makes no claim to solve the crime, but readers will get a tantalizing hint of her thinking as it bridges two chapters late in the book.<br />Editorial carping: The book's title doesn't quite work (Is the Cape's promise for Christa really 'invisible' or her fatal illusion?). Anecdotal accounts of infamous Cape crimes energize the narrative in the absence of solid revelations (itself a problem for this type of book), but more generally there is too much background on the Cape. There are over-the-top lapses: Christa's infant daughter strokes a mouse by her mother's body; a cat's blood reminds Flook of Christa. These are distractions in an otherwise rewarding investigation.	2003-07-23
US	51057355	R369RQIQNS4ZVJ	0071408177	90815634	Protecting Your Wealth in Good Times and Bad	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Message to Boomers: Save or Bust !	Americans are saving no more for retirement than they did twenty years ago. Bad advice from the brokerage community, the financial media, and mutual fund companies compound the difficulty of developing a sound strategy for accumulating sufficient wealth to achieve financial independence. All this is at a time when workers have more retirement options available to them. This book is written for people who want to do their own financial planning. Each of the chapters summarizes and list key points for easy back reference. Given the obstacles investors face from outside advisors and the author's conviction that the projected benefits from Social Security are &quot;destined&quot; to be reduced, the importance of financial planning is compelling.<br />Ferri's investment advice is straightforward: Save consistently. Diversify. Keep investment costs low. Use market tracking index funds. Many of Ferri's ideas can be found in other recently written books on the subject, but as a stand alone introduction, this is a good place to start. Some readers will take the author's suggestion and begin with the third and final part of the book where advice is given for readers at different stages of their investment lives. But it is in the earlier sections of the book the author builds his case for developing realistic return expectations, reducing risk by using different kinds of assets like foreign stocks and real estate, and keeping costs down. It is also in these sections that Ferri is especially hard, I think unfairly, on stockbrokers who are dismissed as undereducated and mercenary, but these traits are more representative of individuals than a profession. His criticism of the mutual fund industry is more objective with respect to hidden costs and strategies for inflating performance for public consumption. These criticisms echo the periodic comments of industry gadfly John Bogle whose book on mutual funds is recommended in an Appendix.<br />Not every investor - my guess is only a small minority - will have the discipline to learn to manage their own financial affairs without some outside guidance. However, sound information covering a broad range of topics of the kind Ferri has compiled in this book will greatly improve an investor's chances for success with or without outside help.small minority - will have the discipline to learn to manage their own financial affairs without some outside guidance. However, sound information covering a broad range of topics of the kind Ferri has compiled in this book will greatly improve an investor's chances for success with or without outside help.	2003-07-11
US	51057355	R3ITGG8CL5IUN0	1889833517	559904222	Special Places on Cape Cod and the Islands	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Beautifully Written and Useful Nature Guide	These essays should be included in any personal collection of books on the Cape, because they fill a gap by paying sensitive tribute to some of the smaller natural areas owned and managed by local conservation commissions and private conservation trusts. The brief essays are artfully developed by Robert Finch and boldly illustrated by Ellen Raquel LeBow. Each of the twenty-four 'special places' that are the book's subject are visited by Finch on foot and the commentaries are filled with information about the land and its vegetation. But the real value behind this reading experience lies in the way the reader is able to vicariously participate in the luxury of unhurried reflection with the writer as he interacts with these diverse areas. There is no reason to hurry a reading of this book in the way you would not gulp a glass of fine wine. Finch's essays are intended as an &quot;invitation&quot; to experience those &quot;unanticipated intersections between the place and the visitor which cannot be found in trail guides&quot;. Finch experiences many unforced special moments and readers will find their own favorite 'places' even before the opportunity to act on his offer to search them out. The essays take us from the base of the Cape through to Provincetown and across the water to Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket islands. Directions are given to each of the natural areas described. A helpful listing of various presiding conservation commission addresses and telephone numbers is provided at the back of the book.	2003-06-25
US	51057355	R1FOPY4ZX3EGCP	0446528579	952928905	Born to Steal: When the Mafia Hit Wall Street	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Great Weekend Read - Hard to Put Down	If you've ever received an insistent telephone call for an investment opportunity that is guaranteed to make you a lot of money from someone you do not know at a brokerage firm that sounds, well, impressive if not familiar, you will want to read this book. The bucket shops and chop houses that employed cold-call cowboys pitching plausible, fraudulent, can't miss ground floor opportunities to the gullible, the greedy, and the insecure were not just a toxic waste product of the last bull market. An internet search of SEC Litigation Releases shows that greed and naivete are (surprise, surprise) in evidence today. Nonetheless, penny stock peddler Louis Pasciuto's rapid rise and fall on this crooked avenue of Wall Street does say something about the past decade's willingness to believe impossible things.<br />Some of this territory has been visited in fiction (BOILER ROOM, New Line Cinema, 2000), but author Gary Weiss' true account of Pasciuto's world has it all: cash, sex, drugs, gambling, violence, humor. Did I say cash? Louis and his barely out of school buddies were pulling in a hundred, sometimes two hundred thousand dollars a month in the 1990's peddling dreams and phony hopes. Weiss is at home writing about this hard-boiled, street smart world. He captures the dialogue, the profanity, the ironies, and the simple money lust energy that drives it all. He gets inside the relationship between Louis and Charlie Riccotone, a violent, small-time extortionist with a slippery veneer, who comes to represent the Mob's influence in this world as he worms his way into Louis' life. Made for television scenes standout: Raucous teams of telephone pitchmen selling 'hot' new stocks; Louis and friend Buddy on sex and drug benders; a broker thrown through a plate glass window; a party boat adventure that goes badly wrong; Louis hiding his stripper girlfriend from his soon-to-be-his-wife sweetheart; and tense sit-downs with Guys of a certain reputation to arbitrate disputes.<br />In recent years the securities regulatory environment has gotten tougher, the press more investigatory, the public more suspicious. At the end of this fast-paced story corrupt enterprises go out of business, and people go to jail. A lot of people: Bad Guys, a mentor, and friends. Pasciuto's cooperation with the Feds lands him in the federal witness protection program. Where this young man goes from here, Weiss can only guess. It has been quite a ride and Weiss does his readers a service by taking them back all the wiser from this enlightening descent into the muck.ecent years the securities regulatory environment has gotten tougher, the press more investigatory, the public more suspicious. At the end of this fast-paced story corrupt enterprises go out of business, and people go to jail. A lot of people: Bad Guys, a mentor, and friends. Pasciuto's cooperation with the Feds lands him in the federal witness protection program. Where this young man goes from here, Weiss can only guess. It has been quite a ride and Weiss does his readers a service by taking them back all the wiser from this enlightening descent into the muck.	2003-06-17
US	51057355	RDNU2CIHBJFSG	0471430161	504376223	Yes, You Can Time the Market!	Books	4	30	35	N	Y	Good Graphic Use of Statistical Data	In 1929 an investor owning a basket of stocks representing the S&P 500 Index would have seen a return of 84%...in twenty years. Making the same investment just two years later would have produced an 818% move. Timing is important. Investing for the 'long run' is no excuse for buying stocks when they are expensive. Stein and DeMuth make the case that an investment may be a bargain when its current price is lower than its long-term average. This is simply due to the fact that points of data tend to follow their own laws of gravity and \\"regress\\" to long-term averages after periods of sharp out/under performance. Let's define long-term as a fifteen year period. Let's also invest in the market using indexed securities and specifically one key market index, the S&P 500 Index, because of the singular unpredictability of individual stocks.<br />Here are some conclusions: By almost all historical measure today's stock market is still overvalued. The index average of the S&P 500 and S&P 500 dividend yield appear to be the most reliable indicators of whether the market is over or undervalued. Own bonds and avoid stocks when they are expensive relative to their long-term averages. The always touted benefits of dollar cost averaging, and mechanical portfolio rebalancing to a preconceived percentage allocation, miss the point. Investments can be timed.<br />The difficulty in all this is that the authors' findings point to the \\"general direction\\" of the market over \\"long periods of time\\". Investors will need the patience of Job and a steely discipline to be in or out of the market for multi-year periods. Meanwhile, experience shows us that much money is also made and lost in the margins, in the short-term. Using the data, investors would have begun moving out of the market in the mid to late 1980's thus avoiding the sharp break in the market in 1987 and the extended bear market that began in 2000. But investors would have also missed the spectacular blow-off gains in the 1990's. Investors would be smart to use this book as a guide for adjusting their allocation to a variety of asset classes and use long-term trends to temper short-term emotion.nvestors would be smart to use this book as a guide for adjusting their allocation to a variety of asset classes and use long-term trends to temper short-term emotion.	2003-06-11
US	51057355	RZ5LPG1RIMZ6G	1588380459	806476894	A Writer's Tool Kit: 12 Proven Ways You Can Make Your Writing StrongerToday!	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Guide for Writers and Readers	Choosing words for a sentence that will build to a paragraph that has meaning and interest for others is a craft. We are all apprentices in this trade when we commit to that first sentence. Carroll Dale Short has given us a 'tool kit' to improve these skills. This is a clearly written guide to a dozen ideas every writer should consider while working their craft. Short's primary focus is narrative writing, storytelling, usually fiction, but also the background, human interest story that goes beyond mere facts. Writers of expositional, fact-based reports, not stories, will also benefit from these tools if only by being reminded that the goal should always be to give the reader information in a straightforward manner. We might want to keep in mind John Gardner's (The Art of Fiction) quoted advice: &quot;The meaning of a sentence should be as obvious as a grizzly bear in a well-lighted kitchen&quot;. This tool kit comes with a lot of examples from a variety of writers: Using 'transitions' to advance your prose in a coherent way; avoiding the vagueness of abstractions; using fewer words to make sentences more effective; tips on writing dialogue; avoiding redundancy and cliche's, etc. I think some of the best advice Short passes on is to re-read your material frequently (I suggest reading it aloud) as if you were reading it for the first time. Writing is not just a skill, it is a habit. So, commit to it, Nike-style. And trust your instincts. If a particular sentence or paragraph or concept keeps blocking your progress, consider that it may simply be unnecessary, a non sequitur, a dead-end. These are all good ideas for the writer, whatever their focus, as well as the serious reader who appreciates accomplished writing.	2003-05-28
US	51057355	R3SV6IIBJNBDXX	0691091722	764296537	The New Financial Order: Risk in the 21st Century	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Controlling Risk - A New Matrix	The NEW FINANCIAL ORDER outlines an ambitious plan for reworking the ways we control financial risk. Shiller \\"democratizes\\" the subject of risk by addressing, among other things, the vulnerability of \\"ordinary riches\\" like the value of our homes and our choice-of-career incomes. These risks are various, unpredictable, and unevenly distributed through time and geography. That unevenness (unfairness, Shiller might say) means the risks can be insured, securitized, and traded. The moral dimension to this is Shiller's intention to hedge inequality that is \\"gratuitous, random, and painful\\".<br />Changes in a nation's economy and the unknowable effects of technological advances are two long-term, systemic risks we all face. By comparison, the risk to an investor's wealth of a company's stock missing its projected quarterly earnings is small in measure to the seismic shifts in the net worth of a much broader base of homeowner stakeholders. Now, if the stock market is not an adequate proxy for the overall wealth of the economy, then why not create \\"macro markets\\" for securities that swap out the risk of one nation's aggregrate output (GDP) for another's. Some will argue that the stock markets in the U.S. and other developed countries are already proxies for their economic prospects. But given the thin liquidity and relative immaturity of many other markets, securities tied to a more fundamental metric such as GDP or all real estate values are a clear positive.<br />Shiller does a good job of suggesting the challenges government and the private sector will confront to implement a new risk infrastructure. There is an interesting anecdotal history in Part Five of how various financial and insurance plans came into being as with our social security system modeled after the German system in the 1880's. The development of sophisticated \\"global risk information databases (GRIDS)\\" will provide a resource for writing appropriate contracts in the future. Privacy advocates will shudder, but part of the point is that the ways we control risk have evolved over time and can be modified to work better. This is a provocative book because of the wealth of its vision. With this much innovative thinking it seems reasonable that additional studies will build on Shiller's work and pave the way for some of these ideas to be adopted., but part of the point is that the ways we control risk have evolved over time and can be modified to work better. This is a provocative book because of the wealth of its vision. With this much innovative thinking it seems reasonable that additional studies will build on Shiller's work and pave the way for some of these ideas to be adopted.	2003-05-23
US	51057355	R2F6JVLXA53QFH	0691091722	764296537	The New Financial Order: Risk in the 21st Century	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Controlling Risk - A New Matrix	The NEW FINANCIAL ORDER outlines an ambitious plan for reworking the ways we control financial risk. Shiller \\"democratizes\\" the subject of risk by addressing, among other things, the vulnerability of \\"ordinary riches\\" like the value of our homes and our choice-of-career incomes. These risks are various, unpredictable, and unevenly distributed through time and geography. That unevenness (unfairness, Shiller might say) means the risks can be insured, securitized, and traded. The moral dimension to this is Shiller's intention to hedge inequality that is \\"gratuitous, random, and painful\\".<br />Changes in a nation's economy and the unknowable effects of technological advances are two long-term, systemic risks we all face. By comparison, the risk to an investor's wealth of a company's stock missing its projected quarterly earnings is small in measure to the seismic shifts in the net worth of a much broader base of homeowner stakeholders. Now, if the stock market is not an adequate proxy for the overall wealth of the economy, then why not create \\"macro markets\\" for securities that swap out the risk of one nation's aggregrate output (GDP) for another's. Some will argue that the stock markets in the U.S. and other developed countries are already proxies for their economic prospects. But given the thin liquidity and relative immaturity of many other markets, securities tied to a more fundamental metric such as GDP or all real estate values are a clear positive.<br />Shiller does a good job of suggesting the challenges government and the private sector will confront to implement a new risk infrastructure. There is an interesting anecdotal history in Part Five of how various financial and insurance plans came into being as with our social security system modeled after the German system in the 1880's. The development of sophisticated \\"global risk information databases (GRIDS)\\" will provide a resource for writing appropriate contracts in the future. Privacy advocates will shudder, but part of the point is that the ways we control risk have evolved over time and can be modified to work better. This is a provocative book because of the wealth of its vision. With this much innovative thinking it seems reasonable that additional studies will build on Shiller's work and pave the way for some of these ideas to be adopted.	2003-05-23
US	51057355	R2IWHJGNNZX4AE	0140513973	102534042	The Penguin Dictionary of International Relations (Reference)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Useful and Informative Reference	The specialized and highly referential language of serious studies in international relations and foreign policy demands a great deal of the unschooled student of these subjects. This is why I strongly recommend this companion resource. Evans and Newnham have written a necessary and highly readable guide to the events, terminology, and ideas that form the basis of studies in these and related fields today. The entries are arranged alphabetically with each topical mini-essay extensively cross-referencing its contents. An ambitious reader could easily spend hours bouncing randomly throughout the book following down ideas and phrases marked in the previous entry. While not intended to be read from cover-to-cover, it is a pleasant and informative exercise, because the entries are coherently developed essays with no shortage of detail. First published in 1998, Penguin should now consider a revision. After the events of September 11th, 2001, it seems a bit odd to read an entry on terrorism that is even a bit shorter than one on the Olympic Games. Perhaps a new edition of this fine book will note President George W. Bush's commencement address at the United States Military Academy at West Point (June, 2002), and how it evolves the notion of America's Cold War reliance on deterrence and containment to a policy of pre-emptive deterrence as seen in the military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq.	2003-05-04
US	51057355	RC4WMWZ6YY36S	1591840163	63263651	You've Lost It, Now What? How to Beat the Bear Market and Still Retire on Time	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	Rx for Bear Market Paralysis	Investors contemplating retirement, but stunned by losses sustained in the extended bear market that began in the spring of 2000, will find hope and encouragement in Wall Street Journal columnist Jonathan Clements' \\"Now What?\\". This is a do-it-for-yourself repair strategy for baby boomers with badly damaged bubble portfolios. First, face facts, we are told: You've got a \\"bone-head\\" portfolio, and it's not likely to come back in value, so sell your losers. Forget the \\"foolish beat-the-market fantasy\\" promoted by Wall Street's brokerage houses and money management firms. Invest to capture market returns with stock index funds. Diversify with stocks, bonds, and real estate. Specifically, you should own large and small US stocks and foreign stocks. For the bond portion of your portfolio, use inflation indexed treasuries and short-term corporate funds, and to boost your income, consider high yield bond mutual funds. Clements recognizes that \\"this will be the decade of the dividend and interest payment\\". So, REITS (real estate income trusts) with their high, single-digit returns, should represent 10-15% of your portfolio. In all this, Jonathan Clements is in good company: W. Bernstein, C. Ellis, B. Malkiel, L.Swedroe, B. Schultheis, et.al., have recently written (or updated) books with similar conclusions. Clements' contribution is in the timeliness of his insistence that boomers can salvage their own retirement plans by acting to keep investment costs in check, diversifying, and saving \\"like crazy\\". Indeed, the investment process should be simple to follow. \\"Why are we such sluts for sophistication?\\" Clements asks with exasperation. Readers may be skeptical that a fifty-year old, in an example, who hasn't saved a \\"nickel\\" for retirement can accomplish much by age sixty-five. But this late starting investor is not the book's primary focus. 'Gilding the Golden Years' (Chapter 7) is one of the author's better chapters. Investing may be \\"simple\\", but it is also an art, so this frequently quoted columnist's portfolio advice is of value. Clements is clearly intrigued by a strategy of establishing multiple sources of investment income during retirement. In addition to income from social security, 401k-style plans, pensions, and humbled securities portfolios, investors might consider an immediate annuity, a reverse mortgage, or even part-time work. After all, if it's true that investors should take no more than five percent of their investment assets each year for income, working part-time to earn five thousand dollars is like having another hundred thousand dollars in retirment assets. And an unconventional idea like a reverse mortgage may take on a new practicality for today's generation of soon-to-be retired. Investors paralyzed by their recent bear market experience will find sound, helpful advice in this book.is frequently quoted columnist's portfolio advice is of value. Clements is clearly intrigued by a strategy of establishing multiple sources of investment income during retirement. In addition to income from social security, 401k-style plans, pensions, and humbled securities portfolios, investors might consider an immediate annuity, a reverse mortgage, or even part-time work. After all, if it's true that investors should take no more than five percent of their investment assets each year for income, working part-time to earn five thousand dollars is like having another hundred thousand dollars in retirment assets. And an unconventional idea like a reverse mortgage may take on a new practicality for today's generation of soon-to-be retired. Investors paralyzed by their recent bear market experience will find sound, helpful advice in this book.	2003-04-13
US	51057355	R1H3RDCCX6MBQW	0471265748	829146638	What Went Wrong at Enron: Everyone's Guide to the Largest Bankruptcy in U.S. History	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Enron-eous	Deregulation of the natural gas markets in the 1980's introduced uncertainty and volatility to energy prices. Gas producers and consumers sought ways to hedge unpredictable costs and variable supply. Enron's contribution was to develop customized contracts that met the needs of the market, broker the deals as an intermediary, or act as a party to the contract. Offering the contracts on the internet was another innovative plus for what had been a sleepy Houston utility. Not by chance, CEO Ken Lay was an economist and student of market dynamics. If the strategy made money in the gas industry, why not expand it to other areas in need of a market maker to control risk. Authors Fusaro and Miller see a company mesmerized with its ability to to be that key market maker in an expanding range of areas that would include water supply, pollution credits, weather-related risks, etc. And why not export the strategy to other countries. So, Fusaro and Miller see hubris at work, a company arrogantly moving beyond its core competency in energy matters. For them it is primarily a market story. There are some brief observations about Enron's hothouse work culture and morality in the markets. But in the end, the authors' view of Enron is that of a company that created a market and was crushed by it. Debt, competition, inadequate planning, and the loss of investor confidence brought them to bankruptcy helped by a few, dubious 'special purpose entity' (SPE) deals. They may be right. But what will occupy the courts for years will be the less abstract tales of greed, fraud, and dereliction of duty. There is the sad failure of auditor Arthur Andersen to function in its role as, well, auditor. Also: I can find no comment on the board of directors (What they didn't do and why they didn't). WHAT WENT WRONG at ENRON is a less than complete picture of the matter, but it does provide a perspective that saves us from puzzling over Enron's explanations of its SPE's, the company's filings and footnotes that strangle meaning, and the ethical failings of desperate people.tes that strangle meaning, and the ethical failings of desperate people.	2003-03-26
US	51057355	R18QJBG03TUOF7	031227260X	487835629	What Wall Street Doesn't Want You to Know : How You Can Build Real Wealth Investing in Index Funds	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Diversify and Index Your Investments	Investors should recall that a 1990 Nobel Prize was awarded to three financial economists whose ideas helped legitimize what is known as 'modern portfolio theory' (MPT). MPT points to an investment strategy that author Larry E. Swedroe says is at variance with the interests and advice of the popular financial establishment (hence Swedroe's contentious title). For followers of MPT, stock and bond market prices represent, very efficiently, all that is known and expected by investors of a security. There is no evidence that markets systematically misprice securities. So, the market prices securities to their value. Markets work. A corollary is that no individual money manager will be able to consistently know more than the market. Wall Street's managed (active) efforts to exploit perceived market pricing inefficiencies fall short. Active managers are undone by higher fees and the taxes that trading profits generate. This is Swedroe's main argument with Wall Street. Stock selection does not work consistently or economically. Active management is flawed by its underestimation of market efficiency and its operating expenses. Bottom line: Money managers don't beat the indexes. Swedroe quotes Benjamin Graham, an icon for stock-pickers, near the end of his career apparently siding with the market efficiency school. Indeed academic research supports the idea that the most important factor in market returns is not stock selection but exposure to key asset classes (e.g., large or small company stocks, &quot;growth&quot; or &quot;value&quot; stocks, international or domestic stocks). Swedroe argues for passively 'managed' index mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETF) on the basis of their lower expenses and the market's efficiency. Investors should have a globally diversified portfolio of &quot;low correlating&quot; assets because of the unpredictability of certain asset classes moving in and out of favor. Investors seeking greater returns may find them with small capitalization and &quot;value&quot; stocks. Swedroe identifies a key tenet of MPT in Chapter 10, namely, how diversification works to increase the average compound return of individual investments within the portfolio. A little more detail might have been useful in this section. WHAT WALL STREET DOESN'T WANT YOU TO KNOW is a helpful if somewhat repetitive introduction to the basic ideas of modern portfolio theory. The author revisits this material even more persuasively in his later book, RATIONAL INVESTING IN IRRATIONAL TIMES.ation and &quot;value&quot; stocks. Swedroe identifies a key tenet of MPT in Chapter 10, namely, how diversification works to increase the average compound return of individual investments within the portfolio. A little more detail might have been useful in this section. WHAT WALL STREET DOESN'T WANT YOU TO KNOW is a helpful if somewhat repetitive introduction to the basic ideas of modern portfolio theory. The author revisits this material even more persuasively in his later book, RATIONAL INVESTING IN IRRATIONAL TIMES.	2003-03-21
US	51057355	R1C59QOOTAM7QR	1573420050	891171257	Day Trips St. Martin	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Skimpy but Useful Beach Guide: Get a Used Copy	This is an un-ambitious guide book, but I found it useful on a return trip to this delightful island. Note to the editors: Why not print the driving directions accompanying Robert Stone's descriptions in a small font. Driving directions often take-up more space than the place descriptions. After all, St.Martin/St.Maarten is just thirty-seven square miles. Getting from one place to another is almost intuitive. One main road circles the island and the destination points are almost all on the perimeter. The map of the island on pages 8 and 9 is excellent and easy to refer to while caught in traffic slowdowns in the French city of Marigot or while waiting for the bridge to lower at Simpson Bay. PS: You didn't tell us about the traffic, the narrow roads, the goats, the quick turns on steep hills, and the uneven road quality. Note to the author: Your descriptions are skimpy. Why not give us a little more information, for example, about the flora and fauna. At Orient Beach I was surprised to find some beautiful cactus in bloom. And how about those different birds poking about the salt ponds and the frigate birds lazily circling high above. Your photographs are fine and relevant. You give us a list of taxi fares, but this information dates quickly. Most visitors using your book will rent cars. Maybe a list of annual celebrations such as the Heineken Regatta at Simpson Bay or Carnival in Marigot would be of greater value.	2003-03-11
US	51057355	R11B1A5GN8QJHQ	0452281938	165334570	A Brief History of the Caribbean: From the Arawak and Carib to the Present	Books	5	16	22	N	Y	Scholarly and Accessible	This is a densely documented chronicle that will be of interest to the general reader for its explanation of how the distinct Caribbean island cultures developed from their popular discovery in 1492 to the present. More serious students of the subject will find a veritable library of reference material in the appendix of suggested readings. Visitors to the region will have a better understanding of the similarities and differences of these island communities based on the historical specifics of their political and social history. Today the importance of tourism, offshore banking, \\"assembly\\" factories, and indeed the drug trade are evident. But in the beginning it was a lust for gold that mesmerized Spanish explorers. The \\"Black Legend\\" that was Spanish settlement brought inhumanity and disease and wiped-out the idigenous peoples. The envy of the English, French, and Dutch helped launch the age of buccaneers who acted more and sometimes less on their behalf to steal Spanish plunder. With a greater European commitment sugar plantations took hold requiring the cheapest form of labor - slavery. Dutch business acumen in international trade, specifically in the crucial areas of lending, insurance, and marketing, enabled them to establish the infrastructure of an industry. The gradual abolition of slavery began in Great Britain, and here organized religion gets credit for bringing credible pressure on the government. Rogozinski's commentary on current issues in the Caribbean basin is just as helpful, as say, in the matter of Cuba. There is little to explain Fidel Castro's early, consistent, deep-rooted enmity towards the United States in these pages. What does seem clear is that U.S. foreign policy towards Cuba was inconsistent and stumbled dreadfully from the Bay of Pigs fiasco to total disorientation during the Jimmy Carter administration:<br />\\"The Carter administration approved of some marxist [sic] regimes in the 'Third World' countries and supported some groups claiming to be revolutionary. Andrew Young, U.S. ambassador to the U.N., praised Cuban intervention in Angola. George McGovern and Frank Church, influential Democrat senators, traveled to Cuba and extolled Castro's regime\\"<br />Rogozinski's history of the region suggests that Cuba's totalitarian regime is an aberration destined to change with Castro's eventual passing. Forceful, charistmatic leaders are common in Caribbean politics. But ideology, atheism, political repression, and a centrally controlled economy are not.ing to be revolutionary. Andrew Young, U.S. ambassador to the U.N., praised Cuban intervention in Angola. George McGovern and Frank Church, influential Democrat senators, traveled to Cuba and extolled Castro's regime\\"<br />Rogozinski's history of the region suggests that Cuba's totalitarian regime is an aberration destined to change with Castro's eventual passing. Forceful, charistmatic leaders are common in Caribbean politics. But ideology, atheism, political repression, and a centrally controlled economy are not.	2003-03-11
US	51057355	R1DKIUM3P8SZUL	186450305X	986697966	Lonely Planet Eastern Caribbean	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	Packing List: 1) Passport 2) Credit Cards 3) LONELY PLANET	Whew-w-w. This is a great entry in a great series of travel books. Thick (thick!) with useful information. The consistent format, the amount of information, the compact physical size of this book make it a must carry reference guide for the Caribbean traveler!	2003-03-10
US	51057355	R1STQ7EEL3MJMI	1576601269	839755394	Cracking Your Retirement Nest Egg (Without Scrambling Your Finances): 25 Things You Must Know Before You Tap Your 401(k), IRA, or Other Retirement Savings Plan	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Enter the maze....	This has to be one of the most boring topics in the field of financial advice. The proliferation of retirement savings plans, the maze of regulations, exceptions, and judgement calls that have to be considered by the average retiree is almost numbing. It's boring in the abstract. But it gets your attention when it's your money and future in the balance. Bascially simple rules for accumulating retirement wealth and accessing it continue to evolve like a patchwork quilt. Malaspina is relentless in her efforts to cover the topic and we are the beneficiaries. Chapter 21 treats the issue of company stock held in a retirement plan and how it can receive tax advantaged treatment. Malaspina does an even-handed job of explaining the risks and discusses whether it makes sense to take advantage of this often overlooked opportunity. Information \\"For Women Only\\" and non-spousal partners (Chapters 22,23)is dealt with briefly, but it also very useful. One important retiree misconception that does not appear in this book: Many otherwise sophisticated investors facing annual required mandatory minimum withdrawals from their IRA's at 70 1/2 don't realize that assets do not always have to be sold to comply. Many investment assets can be moved 'as they are' into a non-IRA account at market value thus avoiding unnecessary sales charges and the loss of a worthy investment.	2003-03-10
US	51057355	RYDMDTGH4CK1P	1563524848	252825108	The Coffeehouse Investor: How to Build Wealth, Ignore Wall Street and Get on with Your Life	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	A Latte Wisdom - Served Sensibly	THE COFFEEHOUSE INVESTOR is written for those of us who recognize the importance of the investment process to achieve our financial goals but don't want to take a lot of time from family, careers, and recreational passions to obsess on the matter. This is a book that can be easily read in a couple of sittings. In fact, the book's brevity is a function of its message. Commit to a few basic investment strategies and &quot;get on with your life&quot;. For the author those life passions include cooking and mountain climbing, so you will want to indulge him a bit (bite?) to digest the book's message. Contrived, perhaps, but I for one will take my tips where I can find them. Schultheis' advice is to diversify our investments, approximate the stock market's long-term results by using index funds, and save. These are themes that other investment writers have worked in detail, but a 'coffeehouse investor' is not about overwhelming us with detail. Schultheis chooses his statistical references and charts sparingly, but they are persuasive. Charts showing the average annual returns of large company stocks over a one-year, rolling five-year, and rolling ten-year period in Chapter 2 clearly show how risk in the stock market diminishes over time. On the subject of savings, I recommend his 'retirement worksheet' in Chapter 7 as a good working model. Why index funds? The majority of actively managed funds under-perform the benchmark indexes, and that's before annual expenses, management fees, and taxes resulting from portfolio turnover. Investing as equity owners in the stock market is ultimately an investment in the &quot;collective&quot; creativity of our fellow human beings. The best way to participate is to 'buy the market', which is the collective sum of all our entrepreneurial efforts, mirrored in an index fund, and avoid single stock ownership except with the &quot;fun&quot; share (say, 5 to 15%) of our assets. No reason why investing shouldn't have a fun component too. Schultheis wants us to ignore Wall Street's muddled, self-interested message that tells us to be long-term investors, and then stimulates an environment of short-term &quot;stuff&quot;, &quot;hot stocks and cool mutual funds&quot;, and a &quot;switch-to-get-rich mentality&quot;. Books by William Bernstein, Larry E. Swedroe, Charles D. Ellis, Richard A. Ferri, and others detail in greater depth the reasoning behind asset allocation, index investing, and saving for retirement, but THE COFFEEHOUSE INVESTOR will reach a large segment of the investing public who might otherwise be occupied with family, career, and recreational priorities and miss the opportunity to embrace these important investment ideas.theis wants us to ignore Wall Street's muddled, self-interested message that tells us to be long-term investors, and then stimulates an environment of short-term &quot;stuff&quot;, &quot;hot stocks and cool mutual funds&quot;, and a &quot;switch-to-get-rich mentality&quot;. Books by William Bernstein, Larry E. Swedroe, Charles D. Ellis, Richard A. Ferri, and others detail in greater depth the reasoning behind asset allocation, index investing, and saving for retirement, but THE COFFEEHOUSE INVESTOR will reach a large segment of the investing public who might otherwise be occupied with family, career, and recreational priorities and miss the opportunity to embrace these important investment ideas.	2003-02-12
US	51057355	R24JYXJKDY5ONK	0071387056	288126268	All About Index Funds (All About... (McGraw-Hill))	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Indexing Handbook	The basic idea of an index mutual fund is that it mimics the long term returns of the market. It does so with less risk, more simply, with lower costs, and greater consistency than the much greater number of actively managed (and widely promoted) funds available to investors. Tracking the markets rather than attempting to outperform them may seem, in Ferri's words, like &quot;watching grass grow&quot;, but consistency over a long period means superior returns and eliminates the black hole of underperformance. Recent books by Larry E. Swedroe, William Bernstein, Charles D. Ellis, and others make more detailed cases for using the index fund strategy, but ALL ABOUT INDEX FUNDS provides needed nitty-gritty information about the rationale and composition of many indexes from which to develop an appropriate investment strategy.  The extraordinary growth of exchange traded funds (ETF) that track market, country, and sector indexes have introduced both flexibility and confusion to the choices that are available.  Ferri does a good job of identifying the major index providers, what their indexes represent, the funds that track their movement, and the potential overlap and inefficiencies that result from mixing index providers. A student of modern portfolio theory (MPT), Ferri is an advocate of diversifying investments across several asset classes that respond a little differently at different times to reduce volatility and improve overall returns. It follows that the most important allocation decision is the percentage mix of stocks and bonds. In Chapter 15, &quot;Designing Your Index Fund Portfolio&quot;, these allocation issues are tackled in some detail. Suffice to say a typical Ferri index portfolio may consist of some percentage of US stocks, foreign stocks, US bonds, and Real Estate Investment Trusts. This book is not long enough to adequately cover all the topics Ferri addresses, but it is an excellent starting point.	2003-01-17
US	51057355	R34PNY1JVPLNWS	0071385290	222639007	The Four Pillars of Investing: Lessons for Building a Winning Portfolio	Books	5	65	68	N	Y	Pillars of Wisdom	Bernstein's advice is to take a long step back from the daily market reports and concentrate on understanding how the markets work, the 'four pillars', and design your own investment strategy. Bernstein persuades us that with relatively little effort we can build an investment portfolio that is diversified, minimally expensive, and superior to most professionally managed accounts. An ability to estimate the long term return of the major asset classes is a critical skill. Failing to diversify across those asset classes is an investor's biggest risk. Students of modern portfolio theory (MPT) will find FOUR PILLARS to be a companion volume to Larry E. Swedroe's RATIONAL INVESTING IN IRRATIONAL TIMES. The markets are \\"brutally efficient\\". Avoid actively managed funds and use index funds to tap into the \\"collective wisdom\\" of the market. Market timing, stock-picking, and technical analysis don't work. Indexed securities may be a little dull, but the strategy outperforms the gurus. The first 'pillar' of the book is devoted to investment theory and historical returns of various asset classes. It's the longest section and some of the best material is here. In \\"Measuring the Beast\\" there is the the clearest explanation I have read of the dividend discount model (DDM) that is used to determine 'fair value'. This chapter also gives us the Gordon Equation to estimate market returns (Market Return = Dividend Yield + Dividend Growth Rate). Bernstein's conclusions are unsettling: The return of stocks and bonds will likely be similar in the future and their rates of return will probably be lower than in the past. There is no question that having an historical perspective on investment manias and crashes is an important second pillar of understanding for the informed investor. This history has been told before, but the material fits nicely. Bernstein's third pillar analyzes the behavioral errors investors routinely make. A need for excitement (viz. investors drawn towards low-probability/high-payoff situations) and a fundamental misunderstanding of risk/reward that leads investors to conclude that \\"great\\" companies must be winning stocks are just two errors that stand out. The fourth pillar of Bernstein's work is his shakiest. His caricature of the investment establishment that includes the brokerage community, mutual fund companies, and the media is painted with broad angry strokes. He is simply incorrect to say that brokers have no fiduciary responsibility towards their clients (It is required by the National Association of Security Dealers, NASD). On the other hand, his incisive analysis of the 401(k) retirement system is an important alarm. Bernstein's closing chapters address some of the big questions investors ask. His \\"back of the envelope\\" calculation for retirement nest eggs is as helpful as discovering a Leatherman Tool in your back-pocket. In a variety of investment scenarios the author ably demonstrates the application of his ideas in a specific and flexible manner. But it is fair to say that a typical portfolio will include US and foreign index equity assets with an emphasis on value (versus growth), short maturity bonds, and a real estate index fund. Serious investors will want to read this book.ility/high-payoff situations) and a fundamental misunderstanding of risk/reward that leads investors to conclude that \\"great\\" companies must be winning stocks are just two errors that stand out. The fourth pillar of Bernstein's work is his shakiest. His caricature of the investment establishment that includes the brokerage community, mutual fund companies, and the media is painted with broad angry strokes. He is simply incorrect to say that brokers have no fiduciary responsibility towards their clients (It is required by the National Association of Security Dealers, NASD). On the other hand, his incisive analysis of the 401(k) retirement system is an important alarm. Bernstein's closing chapters address some of the big questions investors ask. His \\"back of the envelope\\" calculation for retirement nest eggs is as helpful as discovering a Leatherman Tool in your back-pocket. In a variety of investment scenarios the author ably demonstrates the application of his ideas in a specific and flexible manner. But it is fair to say that a typical portfolio will include US and foreign index equity assets with an emphasis on value (versus growth), short maturity bonds, and a real estate index fund. Serious investors will want to read this book.	2003-01-03
US	51057355	R7LTQ281UO6R9	1566562635	740206034	Eastern Caribbean in Focus: A Guide to the People, Politics and Culture (In Focus Guides)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Paradise - A Closer Look	This slim book is a helpful and fact-filled introduction to the history and socio-economic trends in the Caribbean basin. Its focus is on the gentle arc of islands stretching from Anguilla to Trinidad. Sugar, bananas, and oil are among the commodities that have and continue to play a role in the economic life of the region. The author gives us a brief history of the Caribbean's past reliance on the slave trade to support its agricultural economy and the sometimes bloody uprisings prior to its eventual abolition in the nineteenth century. It is the kind of information you will not find in Fodor's or most travel brochures (I write this note standing at a Curacao resort photographing an idealized mural of healthy black servants - the second I have seen today). Of greater interest to the curious North American may be the history of colonial involvement which has left its ethnic mark on the islands' culture along British, French, and Dutch lines. Anglo-Canadians will almost certainly be amused to recall that it was in the Treaty of 1763 that Britain opted to retain Canada - dismissed by Voltaire as a \\"few acres of snow\\". In exchange, the delighted French retained a dotted cluster of islands that for all its imagined similarity to paradise is extraordinarily difficult to locate on any map - Guadeloupe. The impact of tourism is tremendous in the Caribbean today and it seems only destined to grow with cheap airfares and travel 'channels' of information breathlessly promoting the regions' splendid climate and recreational amenities. While some voice reservations about the cultural or ecological impact of this recent 'invasion', others might argue that the material benefits imparted to the island economies are real, needed, benign, and re-occurring. Each island's cultural identity is a dynamic asset that can be protected but not totally controlled from change with civic planning and an eye toward promoting the preservation of local traditions. In this way tourism and local identity can evolve together. The cultural impact of tourism, the development of off-shore banking enterprises, an ever-present awareness of the United States (the CNN Effect) get little attention and are generally beyond the scope of this book. The sinister threat of the drug trade moving through the islands is noted (A vacationing Amsterdam physician tells me to read SNEEUW OVER CURACAO, J.van den Heuvel [untranslated]). These are topics that warrant serious attention. Reading Ferguson's introduction is a reasonable place to prepare for that more serious study.entity can evolve together. The cultural impact of tourism, the development of off-shore banking enterprises, an ever-present awareness of the United States (the CNN Effect) get little attention and are generally beyond the scope of this book. The sinister threat of the drug trade moving through the islands is noted (A vacationing Amsterdam physician tells me to read SNEEUW OVER CURACAO, J.van den Heuvel [untranslated]). These are topics that warrant serious attention. Reading Ferguson's introduction is a reasonable place to prepare for that more serious study.	2002-12-29
US	51057355	RZP34RX6W0GBO	0312291302	966376249	Rational Investing in Irrational Times: How to Avoid the Costly Mistakes Even Smart People Make Today	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	Asset Allocate with Index Securities	Modern portfolio theory (MPT) has an aggressive advocate in Larry E. Swedroe's RATIONAL INVESTING IN IRRATIONAL TIMES. Investors are advised to stick with index funds, tax managed funds, or exchange traded funds (ETF) and allocate across a range of asset classes. This investment strategy may be a little dull, Swedroe concedes, but his evidence for its soundness is compelling. This book is organized around 52 mistakes that investors make many of which might be avoided by adopting the author's strategy. Many of these mistakes are familiar to readers of the current crop of investment literature: Stay away from hedge funds, IPO's, market timing strategies, market gurus, yeserday's winners (\\"recency\\"), the misuse of margin, and high turnover portfolios. Recognize that many mistakes result from our own behavioral patterns including overconfidence in our skills, failing to sell our losers (\\"regret avoidance\\"), mistaking skill for luck, failing to rebalance over time to our basic plan, over-concentration in a company we think we know, etc. Much of this familiar territory. Where Swedroe distinguishes himself is in his relentless focus on a few key ideas that are logically developed and supported by recognized academic research. Financial markets are too efficient in their assimilation of new information for an active manager to consistently outperform a benchmark index. Lucky streaks are common but not proof to the contrary. News is by definition a surprise (viz., randomly occuring and unpredictable) and the evidence is strong that it is a \\"persistently important factor in stock performance\\". Active management will not anticipate the unexpected. Achieving \\"incremental advantage\\" over the market is therefore virtually impossible. Trading costs, tax issues, and the opportunity cost of having to hold cash in actively managed mutual funds are additional factors that make them structurally deficient. Separate studies by Mark Carhart and Russ Wermers support the underperformance of mutual funds relative to appropriate benchmarks. Meanwhile, the best way to reduce the portfolio risk of bad news in an uncertain world is to diversify. If your ouija board is warped, diversification might be a prudent strategy. The research of Fama and French, Ibbotson and Kaplan, and Brinson, Hood, and Beebower all reach a somewhat surprising conclusion: Far and away the most important factor in equity returns is not stock selection or timing. It is asset allocation based on market capitalization (size) and value (book to market, BtM). It is far more important to be in small cap value stocks or international growth than Industry Leader X over Competitor Y. Using indexed securities is an efficient way to deploy your assets to these broad asset categories. To be sure, Swedroe's argument for indexed securities over individual stocks and most actively managed mutual funds runs counter to an entrenched financial services establishment that is based on exclusive analyst recommendations, punditry, and televised stock news sizzle. Nonetheless every investor will profit by implementing some of the ideas in this book.f mutual funds relative to appropriate benchmarks. Meanwhile, the best way to reduce the portfolio risk of bad news in an uncertain world is to diversify. If your ouija board is warped, diversification might be a prudent strategy. The research of Fama and French, Ibbotson and Kaplan, and Brinson, Hood, and Beebower all reach a somewhat surprising conclusion: Far and away the most important factor in equity returns is not stock selection or timing. It is asset allocation based on market capitalization (size) and value (book to market, BtM). It is far more important to be in small cap value stocks or international growth than Industry Leader X over Competitor Y. Using indexed securities is an efficient way to deploy your assets to these broad asset categories. To be sure, Swedroe's argument for indexed securities over individual stocks and most actively managed mutual funds runs counter to an entrenched financial services establishment that is based on exclusive analyst recommendations, punditry, and televised stock news sizzle. Nonetheless every investor will profit by implementing some of the ideas in this book.	2002-12-20
US	51057355	R1G8J7CV307MM7	0471119784	569125327	Where Are the Customers' Yachts? or A Good Hard Look at Wall Street (A Marketplace Book)	Books	3	26	28	N	Y	Wisdom Wrapped in Whimsy	Put down that ugly brokerage statement from the busted, dot-gone Bear market. Skip that news report of the latest bankruptcy filing and spend a couple of whimsical hours with author Fred Schwed, Jr. WHERE ARE THE CUSTOMERS' YACHTS? is a rejoinder to Wall Street's inflated self-confidence that begins with that classic question. Schwed's conversational style makes this a quick read. His style is 'wry', 'dead-pan', 'droll' - a bit of Andy Rooney, maybe a bit of 18th Century novelist Lawrence Sterne. Schwed looks back to the 1920's (published 1940, republished 1955) as \\"one of the great universal delusions of history\\" a period of \\"supreme miscalculation\\". It was a kind of grand \\"nonsense\\" we can relate to in our own post-internet bubble period. Schwed is more humorist than moralist. Misdoings on Wall Street are \\"overrated\\" often a mix of \\"bad luck and bad brains\\". Advisors are \\"romantics\\" who genuinely believe that the market's movements can be predicted. Often they become victims of their own \\"confused sincerity\\". Technical analysts are \\"pathetic\\", persuading themselves of predictive patterns in stock charts and statistical data. In the end market activity may repeat itself, but often \\"ponderously, with an infinite number of variations.\\" Schwed takes the side of short sellers, an unpopular bunch who weigh against the general herd to profit when the market declines. He notes that such professional cynicism is never tolerated in an un-free society. Years before the Wall Street Journal began 'testing' the efficient market theory (EMT) selecting stocks with darts, Schwed relates the apocryphal story of a bank trust officer's relative success selecting stocks from his pen's random ink spots. In a timeless passage, Schwed summarizes his investment program: \\"When there is a stock-market boom, and everyone is scrambling for common stocks, take all your common stocks and sell them. Take the proceeds and buy conservative bonds...just wait for the depression...sell out the bonds...and buy back the stocks....Continue to repeat this operation as long as you live, and you'll have the pleasure of dying rich.\\" Who can argue with a contrarian strategy that would have worked wonderfully in recent years...and buy back the stocks....Continue to repeat this operation as long as you live, and you'll have the pleasure of dying rich.\\" Who can argue with a contrarian strategy that would have worked wonderfully in recent years.	2002-12-10
US	51057355	R2N7UA403QBKJD	0071387676	31670376	Winning the Loser's Game: Timeless Strategies for Successful Investing	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	Competing Against Ourselves	Seventy-five percent of all fee-based managers under perform the market index against which they are measured. Nearly three-quarter of the actively managed mutual funds just equal or under perform overall market performance. Add to this a 1999 Dalbar, Inc. study that revealed the typical stock fund investor achieved less than half the returns of the un-managed S&P 500 index during the most recent bull market cycle. Houston, we have a problem! Charles D. Ellis' WINNING THE LOSER'S GAME (4th Edition) has a provocative investment policy message for investors: First, control your risk by deciding how much of your assets should be in stocks (versus bonds or cash). This allocation decision is the \\"single most important\\" investment policy decision you will make (and the biggest contributor to total return). Don't be a 'loser' by trying to beat the market. Profit by participating in its long term trends. Time is on your side, so load-up with equities if you have a ten year time horizon. Just look at the rolling periodic return charts for equities (pp. 74-75). Separate your functions as policy maker (viz., your goals, what you are trying to accomplish) and manager (viz., how the policy will be implemented). Do not confuse them. Stick to the policy plan to avoid the loser's game of over-managing your assets. Trying to time the market is just one way to play the loser's game: Just consider that missing only the thirty best (up) trading days over the past eighteen year bull market would have reduced an investor's annual compounded return from a market average of 18% to 11%. Stock picking as a strategy to achieve outsized returns is not reliable and leads to excessive trading costs. Regressing to index averages is a statistical reality for professional money managers, so why not consider an index fund/manager where operational costs and taxes that reduce returns are minimized. Trying to outperform the averages is ultimately a fool's game because so many talented people are trying to do it. Managers are competing against talented peers with no special advantage. Okay, the market may not be perfectly efficient. To be sure, market prices may be inflated or depressed in the short term affording money managers profitable opportunities, but the market is \\"sufficiently\\" efficient in time. Portfolio managers and investors who significantly outperform the indices are taking on more individual stock or group sector risk than time will reward. Note: WINNING THE LOSER'S GAME takes on a number of topics on which there is heated debate. Ellis' endorsement of indexed investments will be anathema to most investors. Large segments of the investment establishment justify their fees from disciplined strategies exploiting anomalies in the markets, or attempting to curtail losses in broad market declines. There are very many indexes available to investors in addition to the often referenced S&P 500, so which are the best ones to follow? Stockbrokers are dismissed by the author in a way that fails to account, among many other things, for their educational value to a growing investor class. Nonetheless, this is a book packed with insight...highly recommended.g to do it. Managers are competing against talented peers with no special advantage. Okay, the market may not be perfectly efficient. To be sure, market prices may be inflated or depressed in the short term affording money managers profitable opportunities, but the market is \\"sufficiently\\" efficient in time. Portfolio managers and investors who significantly outperform the indices are taking on more individual stock or group sector risk than time will reward. Note: WINNING THE LOSER'S GAME takes on a number of topics on which there is heated debate. Ellis' endorsement of indexed investments will be anathema to most investors. Large segments of the investment establishment justify their fees from disciplined strategies exploiting anomalies in the markets, or attempting to curtail losses in broad market declines. There are very many indexes available to investors in addition to the often referenced S&P 500, so which are the best ones to follow? Stockbrokers are dismissed by the author in a way that fails to account, among many other things, for their educational value to a growing investor class. Nonetheless, this is a book packed with insight...highly recommended.	2002-09-20
US	51057355	R1GDKOR0BZTYR7	0609609076	749778108	Land's End: A Walk in Provincetown (Crown Journeys)	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	P-Town: An Impressionistic View	On Cape Cod reading Michael Cunningham's LAND'S END: A Walk in Provincetown... The \\"walk\\" is not to be taken too literally. This is a book of colors and smells and seasons, mood, and memory as much as history and geography. To begin, Provincetown is that sandy arm of land on the east end of Massachusetts, as if the state was flexing its muscle like a bodybuilder. P-Town is the endpoint, a clenched fist - a place and an attitude. Cunningham gives us a quick sketch of Provincetown's early history where Pilgrims first landed in 1620 (sorry Plymouth), then as a whaling-port, the appearance of Portuguese fishermen, as an artist colony, and now a summer tourist destination. Its natural history of flora and fauna is not overlooked. But this is not Cunningham's main point. Provincetown is a \\"sanctuary\\" for eccentrics and visionaries. Art and artists abound. And public displays of affection by gays and lesbians on the narrow, quirky, little town streets are the signature experience for today's visitor. Moneyed tourists from the city, drag queens on roller-blades touting their revues, college girls with perfect midriffs, he and she lesbians arm-in-arm, wizened eccentrics all crowd down Commercial Street. Add-in an annual religious procession to bless the fishermen's fleet, and you've got material for a Fellini movie (for people who still think about Fellini). People-watching is not the only form of entertainment in Provincetown. What should be said is that high energy drag queens that sing and dance in cramped venues like The Post Office Cafe' or Steve's Alibi are very talented and great, sweaty fun. Cunningham has written the kind of book where you have favorite sentences. You can't say that about Fodor's. For brevity, some of mine are on page 54. The publisher's book jacket indicates this offering is to be followed by other 'journeys'. Let's hope the series tries to capture the mystery of special travel locations as does LAND'S END. There is a place in travel literature for slim, easily stow-able guides to the atmosphere of unique places. I recommend Crown Journeys find a similarly gifted writer to take on another disorienting \\"zero ground\\" location - Death Valley.slim, easily stow-able guides to the atmosphere of unique places. I recommend Crown Journeys find a similarly gifted writer to take on another disorienting \\"zero ground\\" location - Death Valley.	2002-08-17
US	51057355	R333HYX5ZND6YB	0966446119	559842338	The Essays of Warren Buffett : Lessons for Corporate America	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Wisdom from the Heartland	This collection of essays by Warren E. Buffett, compiled by Lawrence A. Cunningham, is an excellent introduction to basic investment concepts that have proven successful for the 'Oracle of Omaha' and his loyal following. The reader will want to supplement these papers periodically with more timely updates from the annual letter Buffett writes to the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway. Buffett's ideas have been widely reported so there are no surprises here. To be sure, Buffett is consistent. He pokes fun at the 'efficient market' school which confuses stock price with stock value. Early on we hear him calling for the expensing of stock options and urging more transparent, segmented financial reporting by large companies. For Buffett mechanically rebalancing portfolios to achieve diversification, back in fashion, may miss the point of holding-on to your best investments for superior returns. Distinguishing between Growth and Value styles of investing is unnecessary and misleading. If you have ever wondered why Berkshire Hathaway does not pay a dividend or why it doesn't split its high stock price, Buffett gives his reasoned explanations. It was Warren Buffett's fundamental school mentor Benjamin Graham who introduced the allegory of Mr. Market and the concept of 'margin of safety' both of which get satisfactory attention here. Most importantly, I think, Buffett reminds us continually that as stock market investors we are buying for the long-term parts of real businesses that produce measurable cash flows as evidence of their intrinsic value. Real businesses that produce real value are run by dedicated, competent leaders who know how to allocate capital. Hanging-on to such deceptively simple principles can get an investor through some very rough market cycles. Reading this collection is a lot like listening to the conversation of an avuncular and very experienced elder who with great patience, common sense, and wit explains what principles have guided his (investment) life. Indeed uncommon sense and integrity are hallmarks of Warren Buffett's writings. Humor too. In what other serious investment study will you get quotations from such luminaries as Woody Allen, Mae West, and Yogi Berra. Buffett loves aphorisms to make his point. I challenge anyone reading this book not to underline or commit to memory some of these gems. For a general introduction to the fundamental school view of investing this collection is required reading.life. Indeed uncommon sense and integrity are hallmarks of Warren Buffett's writings. Humor too. In what other serious investment study will you get quotations from such luminaries as Woody Allen, Mae West, and Yogi Berra. Buffett loves aphorisms to make his point. I challenge anyone reading this book not to underline or commit to memory some of these gems. For a general introduction to the fundamental school view of investing this collection is required reading.	2002-08-09
US	51057355	R2PM1YIZ9KNHPA	0471261513	580749277	Building Public Trust: The Future of Corporate Reporting	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Confidence Game	There is a risk that this thoughtful proposal for a new way of formatting business disclosure will be overshadowed by the spectacular bankruptcies and accounting scandals of the day. What the market appears to be looking for in the summer of 2002, with headlines of business disasters at Enron, Global Crossing, Adelphia Communications, and WorldCom, are corporate wrongdoers in orange jumpsuits and silver bullet solutions from the SEC and Congress. But \\"building public trust\\" requires a more patiently developed strategy as well as immediate action. The underlying issue here is a spirit of transparency, a charged word for anyone in the \\"corporate reporting supply chain\\" (viz., corporate captains, accountants, security analysts, investors). Transparency is nothing less than a legal and ethical obligation to make available sufficient information on which to base an investment decision. More transparency will not prevent business failure, the capitalist's place of Hell, but it does offer the promise of fewer shocks, less investor pain, and a more efficient deployment of capital. Samuel A. DiPiazza Jr and Robert G. Eccles call for a three tiered approach to reporting this information. It is a holistic approach in search of the \\"real economic entity\\" and an attempt to move away from the obsession with quarterly earnings numbers, the so-called \\"earnings game\\". Is there a place for pro forma earnings? Pro forma earnings, so maligned, may have a useful role for highly acquisitive companies where unusual events are a pattern. But pro forma should be supplemental to GAAP [Generally Accepted Accounting Principles] not a substitute. At the base of the authors' three tiered model is a reconciliation of GAAP with other country-based standards to achieve a Global standard. At a second level of disclosure industry specific issues need to be reported and evaluated. It makes sense that an R&D pipeline of new drugs is critical to a pharmaceutical company, while inventory turnover is paramount to a warehouse retailer, and market share gains the key value driver for a computer manufacturer. While progress has been made on setting global accounting standards, much work is needed by industry associations to define and measure values especially important within their sector. Tier three information would also report on many nonfinancial issues identifed by a company as important to them in particular such as initiatives on product and service quality, customer loyalty, employee satisfaction, etc. If these matters are, as surveys show, a high priority with companies, they should be reported, evaluated, and factored in investment decisions. The internet offers an opportunity to make this information available on a continuous basis. The use of XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) by Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, and a few other companies allows information to be 'tagged' with a contextual description for retrieval wherever it is buried. Accessibility is just another aspect of transparency. This is a slim book with an ambitious agenda that should be read by board members of publicly reporting companies.mount to a warehouse retailer, and market share gains the key value driver for a computer manufacturer. While progress has been made on setting global accounting standards, much work is needed by industry associations to define and measure values especially important within their sector. Tier three information would also report on many nonfinancial issues identifed by a company as important to them in particular such as initiatives on product and service quality, customer loyalty, employee satisfaction, etc. If these matters are, as surveys show, a high priority with companies, they should be reported, evaluated, and factored in investment decisions. The internet offers an opportunity to make this information available on a continuous basis. The use of XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) by Microsoft, Morgan Stanley, and a few other companies allows information to be 'tagged' with a contextual description for retrieval wherever it is buried. Accessibility is just another aspect of transparency. This is a slim book with an ambitious agenda that should be read by board members of publicly reporting companies.	2002-08-02
US	51057355	R2RNG3AUD72N2P	0684863758	117849027	Quality of Earnings	Books	4	34	35	N	Y	Financial Rapport	Investors who want to survive need to avoid torpedo stocks - the one's you don't see coming to blow a hole in your portfolio. This requires arming yourself with a healthy skepticism. Your stock analyst may be under pressure not to disrupt investment banking deals with negative reports. The auditor's independent review may be compromised by a desire to secure &quot;fat fees&quot; for a host of additional advisory services. Bottom line: Investors need to trust in their own abilities and do the job of reading corporate reports themselves. Read the annual report and more detailed SEC required 10-K filing. This is the simple message of QUALITY OF EARNINGS. Interpreting trends in accounts receivable and inventory levels from publicly available reports are useful tools to spot problems before they impact a stock's price. This is the author's &quot;most important&quot; chapter and it is as good a discussion as I have seen on the subject. The importance of understanding accounting practice changes and their immediate impact on how earnings are reported is another important matter that gets attention here. We also see why &quot;big bath&quot; restructuring charges that lower the bar for short term earnings growth expectations have become a predictable consequence of corporate acquisitions and CEO transitions. Much of this material will be familiar to readers of more current books on the topic, but O'glove's clear explanations and use of the numbers to support his conclusions are instructive. Because this book was written in 1987 the majority of examples used are quaint at best (e.g., Church's Fried Chicken, Coleco, Adademy Insurance Group, etc.). On the other hand, describing accounting changes at IBM or GE's managed use of tax losses through its Credit Corporation unit (GECC) may resonate rather differently with today's wary investor. A chapter dealing with dividends, the &quot;tender trap&quot;, reflects recent, not current, thinking. O'glove's position is that &quot;minimal or no dividends&quot; is the best corporate policy. It is a fair discussion. This has been a general consensus for years because of the issues of double taxation and a conviction that capital can be more efficiently employed in a company's core business development. Currently, in the throes of a bear stock market, investors have sought dividend bearing stocks to hedge market volatility, as a tangible sign of legitimate profits (showmethemoney) when accounting scandals are discovered, and more broadly as way of supplementing retirement income. Preferences change, but one thing is certain. The issue of transparency in the markets is critical to assessing value. This book is an excellent introduction to the topic.l or no dividends&quot; is the best corporate policy. It is a fair discussion. This has been a general consensus for years because of the issues of double taxation and a conviction that capital can be more efficiently employed in a company's core business development. Currently, in the throes of a bear stock market, investors have sought dividend bearing stocks to hedge market volatility, as a tangible sign of legitimate profits (showmethemoney) when accounting scandals are discovered, and more broadly as way of supplementing retirement income. Preferences change, but one thing is certain. The issue of transparency in the markets is critical to assessing value. This book is an excellent introduction to the topic.	2002-07-12
US	51057355	R2TS51AAMQ36C	1578512522	780446279	Expectations Investing: Reading Stock Prices for Better Returns	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	Embedded Risks	An observation by Peter L. Bernstein that the &quot;fundamental law of investing is the uncertainty of the future&quot; sets up the dilemma undertood by all investors grappling with risk in pursuit of gain. This book starts with the assumption that stock prices represent the market's expectations about a company's future performance. There are &quot;price implied expectations&quot; (PIE) embodied in the price of a stock. Defining the &quot;value drivers&quot; of these expectations, understanding how they contribute to a company's success, and anticipating revisions in their assessed effectiveness for a particular company are critical steps in this investment approach. Determining the PIE for a particular stock from publicly available information involves a range of estimates and a need to understand the industry sector. What we have here is an artful process for estimating value not fail safe equations. This is a challenging book on a number of fronts: Stock prices, we are told, only &quot;tenuously&quot; relate to earnings growth. Rather &quot;changes in expectations about future cash flows&quot; are the key, and earnings and shareholder value may not move together. On the other hand, the notion that a stock price can be deconstructed to establish the expectations investors have for its future seems intuitively clear. This reader would have been more persuaded of the usefulness of this analytical approach with more case studies where the ideas are comprehensively applied. Separate chapters dealing with acquisitions, stock buybacks, and employee stock options - each of which when properly interpreted can modify an investor's expectations - are especially insightful.	2002-07-08
US	51057355	R3O9HI6MRV5D2R	0071386998	11005905	Outsmarting the Smart Money : Understand How Markets Really Work and Win the Wealth Game	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Mind-field	In a perfect investment world the price of a stock embodies its value. And those who believe this 'efficient' market hypothesis will be buying index mutual funds certainly not this book. But those who dismiss this academic construct to profit from the inefficiencies evident in the market still run substantial risks not adequately addressed by most investment books. The minefield of risks that Cunningham guides us through is that the biases of others, the cause of those price vs. value anomalies, are also our own biases and can trigger money-losing investment decisions. Overconfidence and the &quot;pattern seeking&quot; bias to project short term trends into the future are just two examples, but they do so some of the worst damage. They lead to a dangerous reliance on margin borrowing and excessive trading activity. Also, recognize that companies make many of the same behavioral errors. It is the author's &quot;smart&quot; investor who can spot the folly of manic acquisitions by companies acting as if they were on steroids - grasping for growth at a fiscal cost. Cunningham dismisses technical analysis as &quot;hokum&quot; (Here he agrees with the proponents of an efficient market who maintain market movements cannot be predicted accurately). Stay away from IPO's, companies relying on pro-forma accounting, and sector funds. Read analyst reports with caution, but do study closely &quot;management's discussion&quot; of their business in the annual report. Be wary of stock buybacks, stock option programs, stock splits, spin-offs, secondary offerings, and performance-based incentive plans. Any of these programs can be abused and rise out of corporate hubris. Above all: Recognize your biases, your tolerance for risk, be objective, and have criteria to know when to sell your positions. A lot of territory is covered in this book with some of the best material appearing in Chapters 10 and 11. Cunningham builds a persuasive case for adopting a long term, value oriented investment philosophy which is least affected by these biases.ent philosophy which is least affected by these biases.	2002-06-22
US	51057355	R1C26ERIVRQGD5	0743226631	680489296	Floating Off the Page: The Best Stories from The Wall Street Journal's "Middle Column" (Wall Street Journal Book)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	A Gift from The Wall Street Journal - That's My Tip	The middle column on The Wall Street Journal's front page has always been a refreshing break from the general seriousness and deluge of information throughout the paper. As such it has always been a respository of wit, quirky facts, humanity, and general eccentricity. As an adjunct instructor for Investments at a local college, I like to refer to the existence of the column to alter preconceptions about this otherwise serious newspaper. On occasion I have cut out the stories to leave on our kitchen table for family members. So, a collection of these<br />wonderful stories is very welcome. I immediately think of the loopy Brit who has constructed a medieval &quot;siege engine&quot; for lobbing dead horses (it was medieval thing) or soon-to-be-dead pianos a hundred yards down range. Many of us can relate to the social perils of inadvertently making a cell phone call by hitting a re-dial button and having our conversations unknowingly monitored. And I fret for the fellow who protects the Stanley Cup as it makes its appointed party rounds among ice hockey's winning athletes. A very different tone is struck in the &quot;struggles of [sea] otter 76&quot; to survive the toxic effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill. It is a moving story that sticks to the reader's mind like petroleum goo. A vignette about Serbian snipers is both disturbing and memorable in its grimy banality. I do miss in this collection the oddity of a giant blue anatomically proportioned bug crouching on the roof of a Providence, RI exterminator. I also miss the WSJ's distinctive pixel illustrations of the people and things that are the subject of these columns. Their absence is an unfortunate editorial lapse since so many of the stories are memorable human interest sketches of ordinary people in unusual roles. But readers should not be too disappointed. This is a worthy, reasonably priced gift book and recommended vacation read!	2002-06-12
US	51057355	R3D35W0H9FNTR1	0071386262	640323191	Financial Shenanigans: How to Detect Accounting Gimmicks & Fraud in Financial Reports, Second Edition	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	CREATIVE ACCOUNTING 101	FINANCIAL SHENNANIGANS How to Detect Accounting Gimmicks & Fraud in Financial Reports 2nd Edition - Howard Schilit<br />Former SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt once noted that the investment markets exist through the \\"grace\\" of investors. That grace is a fragile trust easily undermined by intentional distortions of the financial performance of publicly reporting companies. Those distortions that erode investor confidence are author Howard Schilit's 'Shenanigans'. The infractions described range from benign to aggressive to outright fraudulent and Schilit is always ready with the specifics of companies who have demonstrated an excess of creativity in their arithmetic. It should be said that the information in this book is very accessible to the non-accountant. This is an illuminating read. A brief accounting tutorial in the Appendix is almost worth the price of admission. Serious investors should read this book. The \\"seven financial shenanigans\\" Schilit discusses at length are painfully familiar to portfolio owners. They are clearly explained and amply exampled. Reading this book may or may not provide an investor with the expertise to prevent a future mistake, but it will certainly add to an appreciation of the seriousness of issues as they surface in the financial media.	2002-05-30
US	51057355	R1ZKSPMWUDRRWU	0471479241	964335055	Magic Numbers: The 33 Key Ratios That Every Investor Should Know	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Magic Numbers De-Mystified	Peter Temple's MAG1C NUM8ERS is a straightforward introduction and useful reference tool for the serious investor on this topic. At the core of fundamental analysis are financial ratios that are essentially measuring tools for reaching a better understanding of a company's strengths and weaknesses. Temple's book manages to take some of the mystery out of these 'Magic' numbers by assembling them in one place. Here we have an organized summary of thirty-three key financial ratios. With each one we get a) definition b) the formula c)where we can find the numbers d) how the ratio can be calculated e) a specific corporate example and f) what relevance the measurement has for investors. The predictable organization of the book means it is an easy reference to flip open when we need to refresh our understanding of a useful ratio. Temple's observations about applying particular ratios to specific kinds of companies are helpful. I, for one, would like to have have received even more help in this area. Temple is British and many of his examples are drawn from companies US investors will not warm-up to such as Singapore Telecom, UK retailer Kingfisher, or the German utility company RWE. I'd recommend reading this book with the financial statements for a couple of favorite companies in hand to make the application of the ratios more relevant. Working your way through the jungle of numbers and verbiage for a company an investor owns with a few of Temple's ratios will contribute to an informed opinion of that business.	2002-05-14
US	51057355	R2J17VV4SY3NPH	0471479241	964335055	Magic Numbers: The 33 Key Ratios That Every Investor Should Know	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Magic Numbers De-Mystified	Peter Temple's MAG1C NUM8ERS is a straightforward introduction and useful reference tool for the serious investor on this topic. At the core of fundamental analysis are financial ratios that are essentially measuring tools for reaching a better understanding of a company's strengths and weaknesses. Temple's book manages to take some of the mystery out of these 'magic' numbers by assembling them in one place. Here we have an organized summary of thirty-three key financial ratios. With each one we get a) a definition b) the formula c) where we can find the numbers d) how the ratio can be calculated e) a specific corporate example and f) what relevance the measurement has for investors. The predictable organization of the book means it is an easy reference to flip open when we need to refresh our understanding of a useful ratio. Temple's observations about applying particular ratios to specific kinds of companies are helpful. I, for one, would like to have received more help in this area. Temple is British and many of his examples are drawn from companies US investors will not warm-up to such as Singapore Telecom, UK retailer Kingfisher, or the German utility company RWE. I'd recommend reading the book with the financial statements for a couple of favorite companies in hand to make the application of the ratios more relevant. Working your way through the jungle of numbers and verbiage for a company in which you have an investment with a few of Temple's ratios will contribute to an informed opinion of that business.	2002-05-09
US	51057355	RSZSJV6JRV99D	0375502920	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Sleuth Series Start-up ?	As a student of literature in college, long-time mystery fan, and current 'stockjobber' for a major, full-service financial firm, I thoroughly enjoyed this CONSPIRACY. Edward Chancellor's &quot;Devil Take the  Hindmost&quot; is an excellent historical background to the corrupt  raunchiness of the South Sea Bubble period, but David Liss' novel places  you on the scene. Liss' surprising protagonist, Benjamin Weaver, a Jewish  pugilist, moves with a refreshing brashness and self-confidence through the  various layers of this eighteenth century period's class culture. I enjoyed  the author's explanation of 'double cross', but then began hoping for more  period insights and historical references. I see this book as an A&amp;E  television Mystery. And the opportunity for a sequel or series seems clear.	2000-03-14
