US	51058819	R3G8CJYS7TU25T	0609608916	35398552	Who Cut The Cheese? - An A-Mazing Parody about Change (and How We Can Get Our Hands on Yours)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Tasty as a slice of Swiss and just as thin	This book is as almost as helpful as the one it's poking fun at. I wasn't  a big fan of &quot;Who Moved the Cheese&quot; and I don't know why it's so  popular, but this parody contains some outstanding practical advice, most  of it centering around why its best to avoid people who eat lots of dairy  products and then have adverse gastrointestinal reactions to it. <br />I made  the mistake of reading this book in a crowded bookstore and a couple of  times I broke out in serious giggles, which got me some strange looks from  the other patrons who probably thought I was reading the serious book and  not the parody. But I ignored them and finished the whole book in about 15  minutes. And that's a big problem with this thin little tome-- you can  easily knock it off during a lunch break. Why anyone would want to buy it  is a bit of a mystery. Then again, why anyone would spend [their money] on &quot;Who  Moved My Cheese&quot; is a mystery as well.	2000-09-15
US	51058819	R1BTLNJ9KFX0KW	0740703579	669904317	The Millionaire Mind	Books	2	51	62	N	N	Some good advice, but...	I wasn't a big fan of Stanley's first book, but it did contain some  worthwhile advice. Most of it was just good common-sense-- don't spend  beyond your means, don't waste money on status-building consumer goods,  don't expect Mom and Dad to subsidize your lifestyle if you don't have the  money to pull it off. None of it earth-shattering stuff, but worth hearing  anyway. <br />This book rehashes many of the same points made in the first  book, along with a few other points that I'm not sure I believe. A previous  reviewer disputes the sampling method Stanley uses to pick the millionaires  that he surveyed, and I have to agree. He selected neighborhoods with large  concentrations of millionaires, and I don't think that's an accurate way to  gather the information he wanted. I don't think its a truly represenative  sample. <br />And the points Stanley makes often fly in the face of logic. He  says that few if any millionaires inherit ANY money from their parents.  Well, what do the parents do with the money? I don't think they give it all  away. He also makes the point over and over that people with top grades,  super SAT's, and degrees from elite universities tend NOT to become  millionaires. He reports that the average undergrad GPA among his sample  was 2.9, and that many either didn't get into college or flunked out. He  seems to make the point that academic brilliance is an actual hindrance to  becoming rich, because smart kids don't focus enough on developing people  skills. I can see his point, I just don't buy it. Just because you get  straight C's doesn't make you more likely to become rich than someone with  straight A's and a 1600 SAT. <br />The book also focuses incessently on the  fact that many of the millionaires sampled own their own businesses. The  actual number is only one-third of the sample, yet nearly every positive  example given in the book is about someone who owns their own business.  While I agree that investing your time and money in your own business  rather than working for someone else can be far more rewarding financially,  it's also riskier. Stanely does say that these entrepreneurs saw that there  was greater finanacial risk in going it alone, but he doesn't mention even  once that a great number of small businesses fail, and that is an egregious  omission. Just because a small percentage make it does not necessarily make  it a good idea to start your own business. <br />For a book that is supposed  to be a statistical survey, there are so many ridiculous anecdotes about  millionaire behavior that it really raises doubts about the overall value  of the book. They aren't supported with hard data, and so can't really be  trusted. It would have helped if the book had given more information about  the sampling and even published the data in an appendix or on a web site,  because he's making broad statements about millionaire behavior without  seeming to examine any professional athletes, media moguls, rich kids, or  other niches that millionaires cluster in. <br />It's not that the book  doesn't make some valid points, just that they could have been summarized  in a magazine article. Read this book but take it with a major grain of  salt. Don't go thinking that it's OK to blow off school, that buying a  Mercedes is stupid, or that you're doomed if your parents leave you a tidy  pile. The path to riches is convoluted, and if this book shows you how some  of the kinks can be avoided, it most certainly is not a map to the pot of  gold.	2000-09-09
US	51058819	R31HMYA68FREPB	0446364495	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	40	55	N	N	An appalling book	This is a terrible book. An insulting book. A dangerous book. It is so  bad, so BAD. that it should have been sealed in foil like that dirty book  Madonna put out a few years ago that showed pictures of her doing, uh,  stuff. Or at least put on one of those &quot;Parental Advisory&quot; labels  that frightened parents want plastered all over rap albums. I usually don't  scare so easy, but his book shouldn't be left out for idle shoppers to flip  through. Don't retailers have any consideration for their customers  anymore?<br />So why is this book so bad? You might as well as, why is the  ocean so wet? The book is filled with horrors aplenty. I'm not talking  about the plot, hokey as it is. Hunky wandering stranger has affair with  lonely neglected housewife. A good writer could do something with this, if  he/she really wanted to.<br />Waller is not a good writer. He is not a bad  writer. He is the worst writer ever. Since the day when Sumerians first  scratched symbols on clay tablets there has not been a more banal, insipid,  nauseating writer than this guy. To say that he can't write is incorrect.  Oh, he can write. He knew exactly what he was doing when he wrote this  dreck. He's not like those thousands of monkeys hammering away at  typewriters for all eternity trying to write the complete works of  Shakespeare. No, Waller actually had the INTENT to write this  abomination.<br />There are paragraphs in this book too horrible to mention,  sentences that will leaving you gasping and grabbing blindly for something  sturdy to cling to. The sheer incompetence is awesome to behold. I can't  give examples of how bad it is because I would end up transcribing the  entire book. How he was able to write this book without becoming becoming  paralyzed with shame is beyond me. Well, if you have no shame...<br />And  believe me, I know all about awful writing. I was a writing major and went  through 3 fiction workshops full of oblivious and overconfident  twentysomethings (I was one of them). I have read some truly abysmal crap  in my day.<br />And if you think I'm dissing this book after flipping through  a few pages, oh no, no no no. I was dating a young lady and we went over  her place to watch a movie (she rented &quot;It Could Happen to You&quot;,  featuring the appalling Rosie Perez. But that's a review for another day).  Entering her place my eyes were drawn to her coffee table as though there  was a bloated corpse lying on it. It was the book. I made a kind of  shrieking noise, and it took my friend some time to coax me from under her  dining room table, where I was of course cowering in terror. She told me  that this was her FAVORITE book of all time and that I just HAD to read it.  Caving in to a woman yet again I did as I was told. I read the whole thing  in one sitting, with an expression on my face that you'd expect to see on  someone who just saw a passenger train derail. When I returned the book my  friend asked, &quot;Did you cry at the end?&quot;<br />Oh, I cried, I  cried.<br />We broke up shorty after that (actually, about 8 seconds after  that). But I'm pretty sure that the girl I just married read and loved  &quot;BMC&quot;. And that scares me. Any editor with a brain larger than a  pecan could see that this book was garbage. Yet some big publisher bought  it, marketed the heck out of it, and made it into one of the most popular  books OF ALL TIME. Waller wrote like 6 more books and did an album and all  sorts of horrid things thanks to this book. Doesn't anyone else see that  this is evil? How many good books about love and loss went unread because  millions were burdened with this book. All that waste, all that senseless  waste...I can't bear to think about it.as one of them). I have read some truly abysmal crap  in my day.<br />And if you think I'm dissing this book after flipping through  a few pages, oh no, no no no. I was dating a young lady and we went over  her place to watch a movie (she rented &quot;It Could Happen to You&quot;,  featuring the appalling Rosie Perez. But that's a review for another day).  Entering her place my eyes were drawn to her coffee table as though there  was a bloated corpse lying on it. It was the book. I made a kind of  shrieking noise, and it took my friend some time to coax me from under her  dining room table, where I was of course cowering in terror. She told me  that this was her FAVORITE book of all time and that I just HAD to read it.  Caving in to a woman yet again I did as I was told. I read the whole thing  in one sitting, with an expression on my face that you'd expect to see on  someone who just saw a passenger train derail. When I returned the book my  friend asked, &quot;Did you cry at the end?&quot;<br />Oh, I cried, I  cried.<br />We broke up shorty after that (actually, about 8 seconds after  that). But I'm pretty sure that the girl I just married read and loved  &quot;BMC&quot;. And that scares me. Any editor with a brain larger than a  pecan could see that this book was garbage. Yet some big publisher bought  it, marketed the heck out of it, and made it into one of the most popular  books OF ALL TIME. Waller wrote like 6 more books and did an album and all  sorts of horrid things thanks to this book. Doesn't anyone else see that  this is evil? How many good books about love and loss went unread because  millions were burdened with this book. All that waste, all that senseless  waste...I can't bear to think about it.	2000-09-08
US	51058819	R236Q2O65XXUSS	0375407723	806308328	The Brand You 50 : Or : Fifty Ways to Transform Yourself from an 'Employee' into a Brand That Shouts Distinction, Commitment, and Passion!	Books	3	150	160	N	N	My ears hurt!!!!!!	I remember an anecdote about a young writer who sent a manuscript to a famous author asking for criticism and advice (I forget who the famous  author was. Faulkner?). The author graciously sent back a long, detailed  reply which contained a nugget that I remember to this day. The author  said, &quot;You should be more judicious in your use of exclaimation  points. A writer only gets to use three of them in his career.&quot;  Meaning, of course, that if you overemphasize every other sentence, how to  you get the reader to understand the importance of something that really  needs the emphasis? If you have to use italics and caps and exclamation  points to get your point across, you're choosing the wrong words.<br />Which  brings us to Mr. Peters. If you're looking for some interesting and useful  advice on how to market yourself and your career, this book is quite good.  Peters does drive me up the wall a bit with his relentlessly energetic and  optimistic tone, but he does give good advice. I don't think Tom takes into  account how resistant some workplaces are to people who behave like he  tells us to, and his irritating call to make everything you work on a  &quot;WOW&quot; project makes me wonder if he knows what it's like to man  the front-line trenches of corporate America. But again, what he writes is  worth reading.<br />What I find fault with is the how Peters says it. He can't  write a sentence without words in ALL CAPITALS and italics (which, alas, I  can't show you in an Amazon review). And, of course, Peters loves  exclamation points!!!! In fact the logo of his company is an exclamation  point!!! He uses enough exclamation points that there is NO WAY to tell  what is just ROUTINE INFORMATION and what is VERY, VERY IMPORTANT. See how  INCREDIBLY IRRITATION this is??!!! Read &quot;The Brand You 50&quot; and  you find all sorts of good info, but you'll have to hack through an ENTIRE  BOOK that is written LIKE THIS!!!!!!!	2000-08-26
US	51058819	RLH2PI9NIDHI6	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	7	7	N	N	My compliments to the chef	I enjoyed this book more than any other I've read in the last year or so. It's a scandalous and scandalizing behind the scenes look at the cooking  game, and it's a joy to read. Bourdain may not be one of the best chefs in  the world, but he has to be the best writer among those who sling hash  (expensive or not) for a living. Part autobiography, part how-to (or  how-not-to) book, part gossipy tell-all, &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot;  is a book that will amuse, appall, and delight.<br />The story of Bourdain's  path from delinquent to chef is interesting enough. The stories he tells  about his misadventures as a young, arrogant, clueless jerk in his first  kitchens are honestly and hilariously put forth. He doesn't spare himself,  especially in one episode when he tells of working in a hard-core kitchen  and getting burned on a frying pan, and whining to the other cooks that he  needs burn creme. Their scornful and contemptous replies are just the kind  of experience that beats sense into a man, as it did to Bourdain. He  learned to be as rough and rude as those around him, and as he describes  the kitchens he's worked in, that is PLENTY rude.<br />When Bourdain is  describing the restaurant business he's just as funny and interesting.  Whether he's describing why most restaurants fail (look at the owners) or  why bartenders and chefs tend to become close friends (free drinks = free  food) or why you should NEVER eat the seafood frittatas at a Sunday brunch  (read the book to find out) it's always a blast to read. He's not just a  treasure trove of neat stories. He's also an extremely talented writer,  mean, profane, hilarious. <br />Some of the criticism levelled at this book is  that Bourdain is only describing the restaurants he's worked at, not the  industry as a whole. And Bourdain does address this in a chapter of his  book when he describes the kitchen of a three-star chef working at an  exquisite restaurant, which is as different from Bourdain's kitchens as an  all-girl's school is to a maximum-security prison. It still doesn't detract  from the pleasure you get from reading about his experiences.<br />I read and  re-read this book like three times on my honeymoon, which should give you  an idea of how much I liked it (it gave my wife ideas, like how bad a  concussion I'd have if she brained me with it). I have a healthly fear of  flying, but reading this book kept my nice and calm on the flight down. For  that I gratefully thank Mr. Bourdain. His book was entertaining enough to  push the terror from my mind. And from me, that is high praise indeed.	2000-08-26
US	51058819	R19D46PP6O13YL	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Better than recent Clancy, but...	When someone sees you holding a book and asks you what it's about, typically you say something like, &quot;Oh, it's about a mad sea captain  trying to kill a big white whale&quot;, or &quot;it's about the invasion of  Normandy&quot;. When folks asked me what &quot;The Bear and the  Dragon&quot; was about, I answered, &quot;Oh, it's about 3 pounds. And  about 2 inches thick. About 1000 pages, too.&quot;<br />The past few Clancy  novels have stunk, and while this one is better, it's not nearly as good as  &quot;The Hunt for Red October&quot; or &quot;The Cardinal of the  Kremlin&quot;. As in all of Clancy's books there are like 20 separate  plots, some more interesting than others. And it's chock full of neato  techno gizmos that Clancy fans adore. When he's describing how the Internet  has revolutionized espionage, or how an armored division with real-time  intelligence can savage a numerically superior enemy, Clancy delivers the  goods. If that's what you like when you pick up a Tom Clancy novel (and  remember, lift with your LEGS, not your back), this book is a winner.  <br />The rest of the book is not so hot. Critics often slam Clancy for his  prose, which I don't think is quite fair. He's not a poet, but he's  perfectly competent. But loves his little catchphrases, the military  jargon, and it drives you nuts. It may be true that the President Of The  United States is called POTUS by the Secret Service, but it is not  neccessary for Clancy to use &quot;POTUS&quot; instead of &quot;Ryan&quot;  as tags in dialogue. Maybe the Secretaries of the Treasury and Defense are  called &quot;SecTres&quot; and &quot;SecDef&quot;, but no rational person  would actually say, &quot;I need to speak to SecTres&quot;. No way. Does  Clancy realize how Orwellian that sounds? It's awful.<br />Then there's the  problem presented by our hero, Jack Ryan. Ryan is now an elected president,  having run for office because, well, he thought it was his duty. Trouble  is, he hates being President. And he spends the ENTIRE book complaining  about it. He's like a spoiled 6 year old. He doesn't UNDERSTAND what's  going on! Why doesn't everyone behave like HE WANTS THEM TO!  He thought he  had real power but he never gets to DO WHAT HE WANTS!  That's really what  the Ryan presidency is all about-- whining. Ryan's level of sophistication  about the way our govermment works is about that of a 10th grade civics  student. For a man who spent virtually his entire live in government  service, this makes like zero sense. <br />There's also the problem of Ryan's  character. Ryan bemoans &quot;professional&quot; politicians, members of  Congress and lobbyists who put their interests above that of the country,  yak yak yak. A valid point. But whenever he has to meet with &quot;the  common people&quot;, giving a speech in Seattle, meeting with a farm  delegation from South Dakota, he hardly conceals his contempt for them, for  wasting his valuable time. He's terribly elitist, and wasn't that what he  hated in the first place? America goes to war in this book, but there is no  mention of Ryan consulting with a single member of Congress, or anyone  outside his Cabinet. Ryan constantly worries that he's becoming too used to  the trappings of power, that he'll become too regal, yet that's how he runs  his government.<br />The dialogue is like it is in all of Clancy's  books--bizarre. Men call each other &quot;pal&quot; and &quot;fella&quot;  in seemingly every other sentence, which is weird and annoying. What is  very weird is that every character sounds the same in every situation, so  that a coversation about whether a nuclear weapon will be intercepted  sounds the same as a conversation about what to have for lunch. The same  expressions, the same slang and lingo. It's bizarre.<br />Clancy thankfully  tones down his annoying right-wing politcal screeds in this book. Anyone  who would vote against strip-mining Yellowstone Park is still labled a  &quot;tree-hugger&quot; (the phrase is used 8 or 9 times). Actually it  isn't so much WHAT Clancy says that annoys me so much (tho a lot of it  does) but HOW MUCH he says it. If the book was only 600 pages there would  only be enough for 2 or 3 &quot;tree-hugger&quot; references. But plump the  book out to 1000 pages and it's sticks out like it was in highlighter. If  Mary Pat Foley called her husband &quot;hunny bunny&quot; one more time I  was going to vomit. It's almost like Clancy programs a computer, selects an  enemy, throws in some new gizmos and catchphrases, and waits for a book to  spew forth.<br />So why do I shell out my hard earned green for Clancy's  books? Partly force of habit. Partly because in those 1000 pages are maybe  400 pages that are really cool and fun to read, but unfortunately you don't  know which 400 until you read them all. After the last Clancy novels I've  wondered what new challenges Jack Ryan and company would have to face, and  I have to admit Clancy's always found one more bogeyman to put in the way.  But what's next? Who's next?<br />I wonder where Clancy goes on vacation. He  can't go to Columbia. Lots of Irish folk wouldn't like him. Russia, eh,  still some sore feelings there. Japan, no way. Ditto anywhere in the Middle  East. China, not now, no siree. I don't know what the next Jack Ryan novel  will be about, but I doubt it'll be about a deadly threat coming from the  Caribbean. The man has to save SOMEWHERE to go and unwind.	2000-08-25
US	51058819	RXN44BN03WCRI	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Good, but not earthshattering	This is a helpful little book, but I didn't think it was so fantastic that it should be one of the best selling books around. I've read similar books about how to get what you want out of life, and while this one was better  than most it certainly wasn't groundbreaking. <br />The book is told as a  parable about 2 mice and 2 littlepeople who run around a maze looking for  cheese. I love cheese, so I was hooked from the start, but of course the  cheese is just a metaphor, and I prefer real cheese to metaphorical cheese.  Anyway, the points the book raises are sound advice but rather obvious--  don't expect things to be handed to you, don't be afraid to take risks,  don't let doubt frighten you into inaction. <br />A useful and quick read, and  one that must have hit a particular nerve in a lot of people to justify  it's megaseller popularity. I either don't have that nerve or it's just  gone numb.	2000-06-26
US	51058819	R30C8Z9VNZGC2W	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Hey, it's a crazy world...	It is a bit odd that this book is found in the humor section of your better bookstores, when there isn't anything funny about the situations the book describes. Getting jumped by a bear can't be much fun, and I thnk  having your parachute malfunction is no occasion for chuckles. And the  guide is written in matter-of-fact style, no silliness or goofing around to  be found.<br />So why is this book listed in the humor section? Well, imagine  asking these questions with a straight face-- &quot;How to survive a bull  attack&quot;. &quot;How to win a sword fight&quot;. &quot;How to jump into  a dumpster&quot;. Or imagine someone asking you these questions and  honestly expecting a quick, helpful answer. You'd laugh. But the authors of  this book didn't laugh. They actually asked the experts and found the best  way to increase you odds of surviviing some of life's nastier surprises.  While there is probably no certified &quot;expert&quot; on how to beat off  an attacking great white shark, the advice given is as good as your gonna  find, and if it increases your odds by 1%, well, that might be enough to  save your bacon. <br />It's fascinating reading, and not at all silly. You may  never have to jump from a motorcycle into a moving car, but you may find  yourself lost in the woods on a cold day, and this guide gives good, simple  advice on how to make it through in one piece. And if you ever have to jump  from a bridge into a river (always a real possibility here in Pittsburgh)  knowing that you should point your toes and clench your buttocks prior to  impact  may save you some real unpleasantness.<br />All in all, a kinda useful  and definetely interesting book. I wouldn't spend six hours a day  memorizing the whole thing and lie awake at night wondering if TOMORROW  might be the day you'll be forced to beat back a mountain lion, but to be  sure it's an entertaining read.	2000-06-26
US	51058819	R8T4ER8VDBVJ8	0679408371	100924305	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	4	16	19	N	N	whoosh	If you can carve out a few hours from your busy schedule and read this book, you'll find it time well spent. And you'll also find yourself thinking much more pointedly about your time. &quot;Faster&quot; is really  about time, about its importance and the pressures modern society places on  our time. We live in what's called the Information Age where everything  moves at the speed of light, and Gleick does an outstanding job of showing  how the sheer speed of activity in our lives has changed us. <br />It's not a  pretty picture. Think about all the time-saving devices that have come  about in the last 25 years-- microwave, fax machine, copier, e-mail-- and  then think about how much extra time these wonders have created. They  haven't freed up time-- they've made it possible to fill time with more  activity. Gleick's observations about how technology has accelerated the  pace of life are spot-on and more than a little frightening. Everyone talks  about shortening attention spans, yet today there is so much to attract our  attention that it's hard to choose what to focus on. Too many books to  read, too many shows to see, too many ways to spend our leisure time, which  has not increased fast enough to match the demands on it.  &quot;Faster&quot; does an excellent job of illustrating what a serious  problem this is, a problem that doubtless will get worse before it gets  better.	2000-05-15
US	51058819	RZ7O8O0IC72FH	0786884649	707244782	Confessions of a Cineplex Heckler: Celluloid Tirades and Escapades	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Mean, spitful, fun	You could make a pretty strong case that Joe Queenan is one of the funniest people around (the good folks at the Simpsons would, in my mind, be his stiffest competition). You could also argue that Queenan is the  meanest man in the world, although Indiana basketball coach Bobby Knight  seems to have a stranglehold on the title (no pun intended). But without a  doubt Queenan is the funniest mean man on the planet, or the meanest funny  man, take your pick. His humor isn't based on a quirky take on modern  society or on expletive-laden tirades against foreign convienience store  workers. No, Queenan focuses his hilarious malevolence on those people who  stare down at us from the covers of People and Vanity Fair, the famous  actors and singers and writers and other entertainment types we all  supposedly revere. <br />The reviews and essays aren't just lazy hack jobs  done from the confort of his couch. Queenan's great service to the public  is through his exhaustive research of such esoteric topics as Bad Nun  Movies and Blarniful Irish Films. He exposes himself to ludicrous risks to  shine the light of truth and dispell the darkness that Hollywood casts. He  takes a dip in the Atlantic to prove that Leonardo DiCaprio wouldn't have  been so chatty bobbing around in the drink at the end of  &quot;Titanic&quot;. He volunteers to watch the entire Merchant-Ivory  catalogue. In the title essay he assumes the role of the jerk at the back  of the theater who shouts insults at the screen, ruining &quot;El  Mariachi&quot; and &quot;Alive&quot; for the other moviegoers, any of whom  could be a hulking Vincent Spano fan prepared to cave in Queenan's skull.  <br />It is amazing, as you read Queenan's malevolent reviews, what total crap  Hollywood regularly excretes and expects us to revere as art. He exposes  many movies as stupid, insulting, moronic, self-serving, or just plain  awful. That his reviews are also hilarious is just a nice added bonus.	2000-05-12
US	51058819	R35XX3UD6HOU2X	0679747885	434246350	A Tour of the Calculus	Books	2	13	25	N	N	Exhausting	If you ask calc student what they thought of their textbook, chances are you won't get a positive review. Math textbooks (actually, textbooks in general) are usually filled with dry, dull prose, which is probably a  necessity, 'cause you don't want the writer's narrative style interfereing  with the student's focus on how to find the second derivative. If textbooks  are difficult to slog through, well, you don't read 'em for their  entertainment value. <br />This book is almost the exact opposite of the dry,  dull calc book. Berlinski is writing about the development of calculus, one  of the most important discoveries (or inventions) in human history, and yet  it is his prose style that he makes the star of the book, not the math. I  bought this book as I was taking a calc class, and I found it as maddening  and incomprehensible as my textbook. I will freely admit that a math whiz  I'm not, but I was a writing major and I can spot a show-off with the best  of them. Berlinski's prose is as purple as those mountain majesties in  &quot;America the Beautiful&quot;. The book in indecipherable in the way  Henry James is indecipherable, not in the way that &quot;Calculus for  Sub-Beginners&quot; is. I must have read the first chapter three or four  times, trying to hack my way through, but it was too much. It's hard enough  learning calculus without the writer showing you how cleverly he can string  words together. If there were factual errors in the book that is a serious  problem, but no more serious than the fact that this book is almost  unreadable.	2000-05-12
US	51058819	R2P1LQ5XJU5XNR	0446671177	262823272	Snapshots from Hell: The Making of an MBA	Books	3	18	21	N	N	True enough	I read this book just as I started B-school and it scared me well and good. Like Robinson I was a &quot;poet&quot;, meaning I was a liberal arts major among financial and engineering types. I can certainly empathize with Robinson's struggles to grasp the more quantitative disciplines of  business, since I went through my own miserable times. But I think the  review right before me makes a good point, that getting IN to business  school is the hard part, especially for an elite program like Stanford. The  school certainly doesn't want students to flunk out or struggle too much,  since all that does is hurt the school's precious statistics. While  business school ain't a picnic, it isn't the trial of tears that Robinson  makes it out to be.<br />But the book is entertaining enough, and even though  Robinson was a speechwriter for President Reagan and writers for Republican  presidents tend to be an especially odious sort, he seems a decent guy. One  problem that Robinson identified and I heartily agree with is the lack of,  well, overall intelligence and awareness in business school students. I'll  readily admit that I can't crunch numbers as well as many of my former  classmates, but I was amazed at how ignorant many of the folks in school  were. They had no idea who Larry Ellison was. Discussions about government  policy rarely went above a 10th-grade level. My ethics class was a  revelation. I don't think anyone else in my class ever studied philosophy  and it seemed like they looked at ethics as an obstacle to be hurdled  rather than as a code to define proper behavior. Depressing stuff. <br />But  Robinson made it through B-school, and so did I (in my case, barely. Going  part-time and working full-time while planning a wedding was a pain the  rear. Can't imagine folks who go to school when they have little kids.  Insane). The only problem with this book now is how dated it is. Robinson  went to B-school in the heart of Silicon Valley, yet the words  &quot;e-commerce&quot; and &quot;dot.com&quot; are nowhere to be found in  the book. Robinson and his fellow students interviewed with the usual  investment banks, which today almost seems quaint. What, no one dropped out  to found a company that had a multibillion dollar IPO six months later?  <br />All in all a good read, but if you're thinking about getting your MBA I  don't think this is a totally accurate picture of what you're going to  endure. Still, it's well worth a read.	2000-05-10
US	51058819	R2Y3PVI11LUNCT	0385483821	715348997	Only the Paranoid Survive: How to Exploit the Crisis Points That Challenge Every Company	Books	4	11	15	N	N	No rest for the weary	In today's business world there just isn't time  to sit back and casually look over the scene. Competitors can attack with little or no warning, the product that defines your company can become obsolete overnight. What Grove  describes so well in this book is the mindset that companies must develop  in order to thrive in this ultracompetitive enviroment. Managers must  obsessively examine possible threats from both outside competition and  internal complacency, either of which can doom a company.<br />A company that  is content to sit back and rest on its laurels is one that risks  destruction. The best companies, like Intel and Microsoft and Gillette,  work like crazy to develop great products and then work even harder to  develop the products that make their last one obsolete. They always keep  looking over their shoulder and worrying about who might be lying in wait  for them, and this attitude keeps them hungry and vigilent, and very  difficult to compete with. <br />Probably the one piece of wisdom that people  glean from this book is Grove's description of &quot;strategic inflection  points&quot;, times when the industry a company works within undergoes a  fundamental change. This is an important concept, but it's difficult to use  it as a managerial guide because, as Grove states in his book, you usually  don't know you're IN a strategic inflection point until it's been going on  for quite awhile. Companies that quickly understand the meaning of a  strategic inflection point and have the energy and intelligence to act  quickly and correctly can make huge strides against competitors who pause  too long. And that is where the paranoia of the book's title comes into  play. A company that is constantly questioning itself and its market is far  more likely to identify strategic inflection points and is far more able to  deal with them. And that is what managers who read this book should  definetly take to heart-- that complacency is a killer. If you snooze, you  lose.	2000-05-09
US	51058819	R1BFPGO315TC0W	0609804634	760878940	The Onion's Finest News Reporting, Volume 1 (Vol.1)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Still sick, twisted stuff	The Onion delivers a new book and not a moment too soon. I hadn't had a good, long, debilitating laugh in a few weeks and this collection of the Onion's finest work cured me in seconds. <br />This collection features the  Onion's typical incisive and warped stories (my favorite being the one on  Russia's hottest game show, &quot;Who Wants to Eat a Meal?&quot;) and also  pieces by some of their finest columnists, including the Love Man himself,  Smoove B. <br />So I heartily recommend the book, unless you don't like  tearing rib cartilage from laughing too hard.	2000-05-02
US	51058819	R2FC5I2Y9RHK5	0767905091	756974129	Let it Blurt: The Life and Times of Lester Bangs, America's Greatest Rock Critic	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A true rock and roll star	And that's truly what Bangs was, a rock and roll star. He used his criticism to try to change the world just as Lou Reed and other singers used music. That Bangs could be called a collegue and an equal to the biggest rock acts of his time shows just how much rock critcism (and pretty much all writing about celebrities) has changed over the last 20 years.  Back when Bangs was writing he could (and did) take on singers head on, baiting them, insulting them, picking fights when he felt the urge. It's hard to believe that today Bangs would get near any big-time act, out of the record label's fear that he would rip their precious &quot;artists&quot; limb from limb.<br />But Bangs was far more than a hatchet man. He loved music with a passion that radiates out from his prose. He was one of the great stylists of his day, cranking out pieces that explode with all the energy and anger of the best rock and roll. He loved great music and hated lazy and pretentious performers who put out crap and expected the world to bow down. Lester was never the sort to bow down.<br />Derogatis does an excellent job of describing how the boy from El Cajon metamorphosized into the force of nature that blew through Detroit and New York. He also shows the terrible toll that drugs and alcohol took on him, which certainly hastened the end of his life. He died at 33 and he was an old, old 33.  <br />You shouldn't read this book without also reading &quot;Psychotic Reactions and Carburator Dung&quot;, which is a collection of Bangs' work that I read in college. I certainly hope there will be a revival of interest in Bangs and more of his work will be published again. You just gotta read this guy's work, it'll blow your doors off. And Derogatis does a fine job of revealing the man behind the roar.  END	2000-05-02
US	51058819	R1J6J09C99XES3	0395954290	900920530	Double Down: Reflections on Gambling and Loss	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not a how-to book	When some athlete demands that his contract be renegotiated and you hear the phrase, &quot;It's not about the money,&quot; that's when you know that it most certainly IS about the money. But for the Barthelmes the trouble  they find really isn't abou the money. Even though they lost $250,000  gambling in Mississippi casinos, that isn't the loss that moved them. The  money they lost wasn't theirs, really, it was inherited from their  recently-deceased parents, and much of the book is a memoir of the life  they had with their parents, and of how their lives lost direction after  their parents passed away. <br />But I enjoyed the parts revealing their  gambling lives best. The brothers were able to live quite normal lives,  teaching and writing as well as they ever had while at the same time  spending hours at the boats playing games they knew deep down they had no  chance to win. Their description of their casino experience is fascinating,  often morbidly so. They write of hands that fell their way and slots that  yielded big jackpots, but it's difficult to feel any pleasure in it,  because you know that the winnings will be returned to the casino in short  order. <br />What this book ISN'T is a book on how not to gamble. The authors  realize early on that the casinos exist to take your money. They read  scores of books on how to beat the odds and how to count cards and find  them all pointless. They like the risk-- counting cards is too much like  work, it takes all the fun out of playing. And they understand that over  time there is no way you can expect to beat a casino in fair play, no way,  no matter how sharp or lucky you are. The merciless laws or probabilty will  grind you up. But the most telling line in the whole book sums up the whole  problem with gambling addicts, that, &quot;...losing never felt like the  worst part. Quitting did.&quot; <br />At the end of the book the brothers were  arrested on ridiculous felony gambling charges, and while the dust jacket  states that the charges were later dropped, the book itself ends with the  charges still standing, so you don't know what happened to them afterwards  or why the charges were dropped, which was disappointing. <br />But the book  does show the dark side of big-time gambling (or gaming, gambling's new  cute-and-cuddly name) and it provides some sort of counterargument to those  who think that gambling can cure a region's economic woes. The games pump  some money in, but whose money, and at what social cost is it earned?	2000-02-27
US	51058819	R3MY1DLXG8ZUU7	0385479549	311985081	Stalin: The First In-depth Biography Based on Explosive New Documents from Russia's Secret Archives	Books	5	50	55	N	N	A portrait of a monster	The common view of Stalin is that he was a paranoid psychopath who murdered tens of millions due to his own insecurites. Radzinsky's view is different-- he believes that every move Stalin made during his long, bloody  career was carefully calculated, that he always stayed a few steps ahead of  his foes. He makes the quite convincing case that Stalin instilled terror  as the primary characteristic of the Soviet regime because Stalin  recognized early on that terror alone could keep the people and the Party  obedient. <br />The Stalin Radzinsky presents is a far more sinister and  frightening figure than a mere psychotic. It describes a man of  extraordinary evil, not just a psychological case study. Even if you don't  buy all the theories that the author presents, Radzinsky's writing is so  energetic and dramatic that you can't help but be fascinated, horribly  fascinated by this man who probably murdered more people than anyone in  history.<br />While many people prefer to think of Stalin as insane, Radzinsky  presents compelling evidence to support his view. This was, after all, a  man who seized power from some very ambitious men who were enormously  skilled at treachery. He took power and then over the course of 30 years  ruthlessly and methodically crushed anyone who even vaguely threatened his  position. He killed his enemies, his friends, his family-- no one was  safe.<br />And he didn't just destroy these people-- he made them destroy  themselves. Radzinsky's descriptions of the great show trials are the most  interesting part of the book, because archives show that Stalin not only  orchestrated the trials but also even wrote much of the dialogue the  condemned men happily parroted from the dock. That these once-powerful men  (like Zinoviev, Kamenev, and Bukharin) collapsed so completely and yet  naively believed that Stalin would spare them if they confessed completely  shows how rotten at its core the Soviet system was. <br />Only during the war  was Stalin's rule threatened, first by Hitler (though the author argues  that Stalin was actually planning a sneak attack on Germany) and later by  Zhukov and the rest of the general staff, who enjoyed a measure of freedom  as they beat back the Nazis. Stalin relaxed the terror to inspire a  patriotic fury in his people as they fought the invaders, but once the  danger passed he clamped down as hard as ever. Cold, ruthless acts like  these lend weight to Radzinsky's idea of Stalin as the master puppeteer.  <br />Stalin died in 1953 and the controversial part of this book focuses on  what may have happened had Stalin lived. It did appear that Stalin was  preparing another purge, yet another bloodletting that would send millions  to the camps and the grave. This initial culprits were seven Jewish  doctors, and Razinsky raises the possibility that Stalin was preparing a  Holocaust of his own. By now Stalin had the hydrogen bomb, and Radzinsky  theorizes that perhaps Stalin was thinking about using the Bomb, thinking  about starting World War III. This theory stretches the available  information to the breaking point but the author does make his case  strongly enough to get the hairs on the back of you neck standing up. Would  a man who murdered millions of his own people shrink before killing  millions of Americans, British, Chinese, etc? Stalin himself once said,  &quot;A single death is a tragedy, a million deaths are a  statistic.&quot;<br />Brilliantly written, painstakingly researched,  Radzinsky's book is well worth reading even if you don't accept every new  theory he puts forth. Stalin was doubtless a monster, and this book  superbly details his crimes	2000-02-25
US	51058819	RI2LHU2MIV29R	1568760175	724018092	Carlito's Way / After Hours	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A great crime memoir	If you like crime stories don't miss this one. This is one of my all-time favorites and it never really got the attention it deserves. The story of Carlito Brigante shows us the world of crime from a different angle than  the classic Mafia tales. Carlito is Puerto Rican and comes up in the New  York of the fifties and sixties. He's a hard-core criminal, hard-nose, and  he makes no bones about it. He starts of with breaking-and-entering, moves  up to racketeering, and after a long impatient wait breaking into the  big-time--heroin trafficking.<br />Yet Carlito never comes across as a merely  evil person. Living in America, where the streets are paved with gold  except in the barrio where he spent his entire life, Carlito says that no  way was he going to spend his whole life washing dishes when there was big  bread out there for guys with the guts (he would use a different word) to  go get it. <br />Torres, to his credit, never romanticizes Carlito to the  point that he comes across as a good guy, either. Carlito follows his way  because its the one HE chose, and if that means dancing with a fine lady at  the Palladium one night and then going into Lewisburg Penitentary for a  3-year stretch the next, that's how it goes. Those are the risks and  rewards of the life he leads. He meets characters like smooth guy Earl  Bassey, crazy guy Nacho Reyes, wise guy Rocco Fabrieze, and bad guy Pete  Amadeo. All in all, &quot;Carlito's Way&quot; is a wild ride, both the ups  and downs.<br />I really recommend that you get the audio version of this book  and listen to Torres read his book. The movie &quot;Carlito's Way&quot;  actually focuses on the second book Torres wrote, titled &quot;After  Hours.&quot; It's good, but the first novel is told in the 1st person, in  Carlito's voice, and Torres is fantastic as he speaks in Carlito's voice.  Well worth a listen.	2000-02-23
US	51058819	R22CK1QP0W6SNZ	0385483821	715348997	Only the Paranoid Survive: How to Exploit the Crisis Points That Challenge Every Company	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Always look over your shoulder	Grove's book presents an interesting paradox. For a company to excel, it must move quickly and confidently when it reaches what he calls a  &quot;strategic inflection point&quot;, or a sea-change in the way the  industry in question conducts business. The problem is, it is impossible to  predict exactly when these inflection points might appear or what their  nature might be. <br />The solution Grove provides in the title of this book  is no doubt framed on the walls of executives around the world. A great  company must be paranoid-- always suspicious that competitors are gaining  on them, constantly worried that they are missing something important,  never growing comfortable with the status quo. Only by making these  &quot;flaws&quot; a part of the company's culture can a firm be more  prepared for strategic inflection points and more able to quickly respond  to them. <br />This concept is an important one that any senior manager should  make part of his or her managerial philosophy. When things are going good--  especially when things are going good-- that is when you should spend the  most time wondering what might make your company obsolete overnight. These  days a company might find itself in a fight for survival with competitors  it never imagined as a threat, and the firm that is constantly reviewing  and revising the way it does business is far more likely to adapt and  survive than one that sits back and rests on its laurels.	2000-02-18
US	51058819	R1QGJPIUIFYHJL	0385416342	438349301	The Firm	Books	1	29	56	N	N	Awful all the way through	Everyone has a book or a movie that stands out as an all-time stinker. Mine is &quot;The Firm&quot;. I was the beach for a week with nothing good to read so I picked up a paperback copy of this book at a 7-11. Let this be  a warning to us all-- don't buy literature at the same place you buy chili  dogs. <br />I was lying on my towel reading this supermegaseller wondering  what all hoopla was about. OK, this guy joins a law firm run by the Mafia.  Uh, why would the Mafia want to operate it's own law firm? Since when are  lawyers worried about handing organized crime members as clients? Innocent  until proven guilty, right? And why in God's name would the Mafia want to  have their in-house firm in MEMPHIS? I mean, fuhgetaboutit.<br />Then you have  our hero, Mitch. Mitch is of course perfect, Harvard law, college  quarterback, married to the perfect woman. Why this brainac decides to work  for a firm he's never heard of and no one he knows has worked for and has  no reputation beyond Tennessee is incredibly stupid. I thought one of the  big perqs of going to a place like Harvard was to network, to meet the  future movers and shakers in the world so you can become a mover and shaker  yourself. Instead, Mitch heads off to Memphis to work for this shadowy  firm. Great career move.<br />Then, as he realizes that the firm is run by the  Mob and that if he tries to leave he'll be killed like a whole bunch of  other lawyers in the firm (didn't he check THAT out, either?), he decides  to take on the whole enterprise without any help from that fine  taxpayer-funded organization, the FBI. Say what you will about big  government and Waco and coverups and whatnot, if I ever have to take on the  Mafia and it's life or death, I want the Feds on my side. <br />But of course  Mitch does everything on his own, rejecting any help and insulting the FBI  agents investigating things and all-in-all acting like some pretetious  brat. I kept waiting for him to get his head stuck in a vise orsomething  like that but no such luck. When you find yourself actively rooting AGAINST  the protagonist of a novel, you know you're in trouble.<br />I was also quite  disgusted by the fact that even though Mitch has a failing of the will, so  far as his marriage goes, itnever causes him any grief whatsoever. He never  tells his wife and she's none the wiser, which I thought showed even  clearer that Mitch is a pretty lousy human being and that Grisham didn't  want to tarnish his golden boy narrator with something as nasty as the  truth.<br />Grisham's prose was pretty humdrum and in places annoying (I think  he mentioned Red Stripe beer 47 times when Mitch was in the Caymans). But  the book certainly wasn't exciting, certainly didn't make any kind of  logical sense, certainly didn't have an inspiring hero, and certainly  didn't have much suspense. So why was it such a huge success and why did it  spawn the whole Grisham publishing phenomena? You got me.	2000-02-16
US	51058819	R22E63KHRZ7OEW	031218302X	757043497	Red Meat: A Collection of Red Meat Cartoons From the Secret Files of Max Cannon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sick, filthy stuff!	I made the mistake of flipping through &quot;Red Meat&quot; at a local bookstore, and I got a lot of strange looks from folks as I laughed and laughed and laughed like an idiot. And then my fiancee comes over to ask  what's so funny and I have to show her a cartoon with Milkman Dan talking  about establishing a strong &quot;dairy presence&quot; in the neighborhood.  If you've seen that particular cartoon, you'll know why I was laughing so  hard. You may not know why she still agreeing to marry me. Me  too.<br />&quot;Red Meat&quot; is really sick, warped, violent, anarchic--  wonderful stuff. Just read it at home, when you're alone, and there aren't  50 or 60 witnesses around.	2000-02-15
US	51058819	R31F0XTG4UW7HI	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book on war and on living after it is over	I read the title story of &quot;The Things They Carried&quot; in college and thought it was one of the best stories I'd ever read. It wasn't until a month or so later that I learned it was a book-length work and one day when  I was killing time in the library I tracked it down, found an empty carrel,  and stared reading.<br />Four hours and a missed dinner later I finished the  book and sat there for a long time trying to take it all in. These  stories-- and it is difficult to say which are stories, which are memories,  and whether there is a distinction between the two-- are so sad and funny  and disturbing that I was exhausted when I finished. But the next day I  went out and bought my own copy of the book and I've re-read it maybe  twenty times. It's a book I always recommend when someone asks me if I've  read anything good lately. It's been 10 years and this book is still one of  the first that leaps to mind. <br />O'Brien creates a surreal world of men at  war and the time that exists before and after war. The characters (who may  or may not be O'Brien and the men he served with) fight and play and kill  and die with no real sense that there is an outside order trying to impose  its will. There are things to be carried and hills to be climbed and  missions to be accomplished and there is no firm beginning or end to it.  The war never ends, because the stories about it go on.<br />And that is  perhaps the other big theme of the book. These stories are not just about  war, but about how stories can themselves create a reality as real as the  one we walk around in. O'Brien alternately tells us that the stories we are  reading are true, that they really happened, and then later admits that he  made it all up. Writing fiction is, after all, the skillful and  entertaining telling of lies. But then O'Brien tells us that these  &quot;stories&quot; are often more truthful than the cold hard facts. This  isn't presented in a pretentious, oracular way, but it the words ofa man  trying to understand just what happened to him and people he cared about.  <br />I don't know how good a job I've done in conveying how great this book  is, so let me just say that if you read this book, you won't be  disappointed in the least bit. When you finished you'll be right back here  recommending it to someone else.	2000-02-14
US	51058819	R3DR80HGZAU46H	006101270X	771081045	Sharpe's Triumph: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Assaye, September 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Up from the ranks	Cornwell takes us back to India in this book and the action is as intense as the novels set in Spain and France. These novels focusing on Sharpe's early career are especially interesting because the show him without the  support of his Riflemen and without the officer's rank that is the source  of much of his pride and many of his problems.<br />But this is the novel  where Sergeant Sharpe suddenly realizes that his ambitions go far beyond  his non-commissioned rank. And in making the decision to try to rise to  officer he knows that he is consigning himself to an almost certain death,  because his only chance to become an officer is through an act of suicidal  bravery on the battlefield that is noticed by a senior officer. <br />The  decision to attack at Assaye by Sir Arthur Wellesley gives Sharpe his  opportunity. Longtime readers of the Sharpe novels know what he did to get  himself promoted at Assaye, and Cornwell does his usual masterful job in  describing this horrific, heroic deed. <br />This book has everything Sharpe  fans have come to love, and anyone who has never read this series should  gather up their pennies and carve out a few weekends to devour them all.  You'll find yourself addicted.	2000-02-08
US	51058819	RM7FKIRZC5BUJ	0812931459	713907601	Dow 36,000: The New Strategy for Profiting from the Coming Rise in the Stock Market	Books	1	22	29	N	N	Not even wrong	When you are so off base on a subject that you aren't even wrong, you know you've got problems. And the thinking behind this book is so far off that it isn't even wrong. I urge you to read the reviews below to get a good  explanation about all the fundamental errors the authors make (the biggest  is that the authors use earnings instead of dividends to make their  calculations, an error that a 1st year finance student would flunk an exam  for).<br />The fact that so many intelligent people fell for this stuff  (again, read the many glowing reviews below) shows that while many people  think of themselves as savvy investors they are just regurgitating what  they hear on CNBC without a good understanding about markets and economics.<br />But the arguments this book makes not only go against basic financial  reality, but against common sense. The authors say that the stock market,  even after the fantastic runup of the last decade, is enormously  undervalued. But shouldn't the market, which is made up of all investors  the world over, know that? Are we to assume that Glassman and Hassett know  something that the market as a whole is too stupid to see? That to me seems  a rather large leap of faith for any investor to take.<br />Of course, the  stock markets keep going up, up, and up, so maybe we will see the Dow at  36,000 in the not-so-distant future. But it won't be because of any insight  anyone gleans from this book.<br />For a more in-depth and much more  intelligent discussion about this book, go to Slate magazine and search  under Glassman and read the dialogue he had with another economist about  this book. It boggles the mind that it was published in the first place,  but with a title like DOW 36,000, they probably thought they couldn't miss.	2000-02-08
US	51058819	R2QKYULY86RHTR	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	1	14	23	N	N	Down the tubes	This book is even worse that &quot;Executive Orders&quot;, and that is really saying something. And it's too bad, because Clancy is still capable of writing fanastic action scenes. But Clancy isn't writing technothrillers  anymore-- he's writing moron right-wing screeds that should embarass anyone  who once called himself a Clancy fan.<br />In this one Clancy has yet another  pathetic woman who messes everything up, and yet another  terrorists-release-virus-to-kill-everyone plot. I can't believe he had the  guts to recycle that from &quot;EO&quot;, and I was in even greater  disbelief when he has the president of the Sierra Club thinking out loud  how great it would be if the President got himself assassinated. That's  just pathetic, such a lazy cheap shot that I can't believe the punching  bags called his editors let it slide. <br />The book is boring, like  &quot;EO&quot; was, and stupid. Still, the parts where something is  actually HAPPENING, the parts when the Rainbow Six team is actually going  about its business, are still a blast to read. But that's maybe 5 percent  of the book. The rest is just a mess.<br />Now that Clancy is an industry and  not a writer (see his NetForce and OpCenter imprints) he apparently doesn't  feel the need to put out work of the quality of &quot;The Hunt For Red  October&quot;. It's too bad. I used to look forward to Clancy's latest  release with baited breath. Now I won't waste my breath. This will be the  last Clancy novel I read, unless I hear that the book is under 600 pages  and actually makes some sense.	2000-02-06
US	51058819	R6HJZFGFWEOUD	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The sad tale of the man on the battle line	This is perhaps the most important book about war the I have ever read, because it tells the story of the men who had to kill and be killed at the focus of battle. Keegan writes about what, to me at least, seems a logical  and obvious subject--how the men on three famous battlefields conducted the  business of war. The soldiers at Agincout, Waterloo, and Verdun, fought at  battlefields that will still be discussed a millenium from now. And the  ways that they fought, killed, and died will be discussed using &quot;The  Face of Battle&quot; as a major reference source. No book I've read since  describes in such a cool yet humane manner the way that men kill and are  killed on the battlefield.<br />Keegan's great gift in this book is to show  how the soldiers who endured these battles went about their bloody  business, without resorting to propaganda or jingoistic &quot;War is  Hell&quot; slogans. These men killed because they had to kill to survive,  because the officers they loved and respected pointed at the enemy and  ordered them into the  breach. They killed because they had no choice,  because not killing meant death. They died because that is what men do on  battlefields.<br />Keegan does a masterful job of showing the full picture of  the battlefield without resorting to overt emotional pleas or obvious  patriotic displays. What this book shows is that battle is far worse, and  has always been far worse, than the average citizen expects. That Keegan  has so overwhelmingly succeeded in showing what the horror of battle was,  is, and always will be is a testament to his powers as a historian and his  understanding of war as a central event in human affairs.	2000-02-05
US	51058819	RJNEUFMP292S5	0446525685	360862239	Business @ the Speed of Thought: Succeeding in the Digital Economy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	You have to read this book, but...	If Bill Gates writes a book about what business in the future will look  like, you have to pay attention. Since Gates has affected business so much  in the past and will doubtless be a prime mover in the future (Justice  Dept. or no) you have to listen to what the man says, just like folks way  back when had to listen to Moses when he came down from the mountain. You  might miss something really really important.<br />As it turns out the points  Gates make in his book are important, if not necessarily all original. I  think that you can read this book and come away with a much deeper  understanding about how the Internet is changing the way the world works.  <br />But what struck me most was a comment Gates made that I think is  terribly important. Gates says that when people try to predict how  technology will change in the future, they grossly OVERestimate the change  that occurs in two years, and grossly UNDERestimate the effect in five. I  think that's very true, and it means that most things you read today,  including Gates' book, give only a very cloudy glimpse of the future.  Beware books that tell you that in five years you WILL be trading stocks  through your refridgerator and that you WILL be working out of your home  because the 'Net will make offices obsolete. No one can predict the future  of technology, not even the mighty Gates. And not just because the DOJ is  polishing its wrecking ball for the big Microsoft breakup.	2000-02-03
US	51058819	R1LP0RC0QTNJZX	0786865539	30407008	My Goodness: A Cynic's Short-Lived Search for Sainthood	Books	5	103	103	N	N	Say it ain't so, Joe!	I was taken a bit aback when I read the jacket of Joe Queenan's latest book. Had Joe taken flight of his senses, buried that hatchet he wields so well, and become a (gasp!) kind and decent person? Would the name Queenan  soon join those of Baldwin, Sarandon and Browne atop the pantheon of Famous  People Who Do Good Things?<br />The book leads us, hilariously of course,  through Joe's quest to become a Very Good Person. Much of Queenan's work  consists of brutal hatchet jobs on the inexplicably rich, the undeservedly  famous, and the formidably underbrained, a harsh task that he is extremely  well-qualifed for (he was born and raised in Philadelphia). So one could  look on this book as a tale of a man trying to atone for his misdeeds, a  pilgrim seeking the path of enlightenment.<br />As you might expect, the  change doesn't occur overnight. Queenan spends six months trying to turn  over a new leaf, and ends up eating lots of organic matter not too far  removed from leaves, including Edensoy, St.John's Wort tortilla chips, and  wheatgrass. He lobbies for the rights of labratory rats and personally  accounts for a 5% spike in sales at the Body Shop. As he does in so many of  his books, Queenan doesn't just tell us what we should do--he actually  blazes the trail for us to follow. <br />I won't go into great detail about  Queenan's trials and tribulations, but I will say that one chapter of the  book focuses on his noble and lengthy quest to find a rare Elvis Costello  CD for a fan who wrote to Queenan and asked if he might have a copy of it.  I am a huge EC fan and to my mind this clinched the book as one of the most  inspirational I have ever read. The sacrifice, the effort, all to spread  the music of Elvis across the land...I was moved.<br />I'll leave it to you to  read the book to learn how Joe arrives at his eventual state of grace, one  that allows him to once again pick up his cudgel and start smashing again  at overripe egos. All I can say is that as usual Iended up  hyperventilating because I laughed too hard too many times. Queenan proves  that sometimes you not only have to be cruel to be kind, you have to be  cruel to be good. And few are as cruel, or as good, as Joe Queenan.	2000-02-02
US	51058819	R3UEG6W6Y6S13L	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Common sense isn't all that common	What you learn is this book all seems simple common sense--don't spend money you don't have, live within your means, don't expect Mom &amp; Dad to underwrite your lifestyle into your forties. But the authors provide  extensive (and sometimes scary) data supporting their arguments that make  this more than your usual financial self-help book. <br />It isn't unusual to  read about some (apparently) rich and famous person declaring bankruptcy  out of the blue. And then you hear about the $5.1 million dollar home and  the $1.3 million condo in Hawaii and the fleet of Ferraris and the bizarre  investements that didn't pan out...It seems easy to say &quot;live within  your means&quot; but money problems plague people from all tax brackets.  This book shows that these problems come more from a person's approach to  money that the pile you actually have. <br />Trouble is, in these days of  unparalleled economic growth and stocks trading at like 250 times earnings,  folks aren't thinking too hard about managing their money for their future.  This book is a good way to get your financial head on straight, be ye a  prince or a pauper.	2000-01-30
US	51058819	RJPKKBRQH2C9Q	0609804618	852111366	Our Dumb Century: The Onion Presents 100 Years of Headlines from America's Finest News Source	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Too funny for your health	I read this book, and at times I was debilitated because I was laughing so hard. I mean, I was laughing, then coughing, then doubled over on the floor wretching and gasping for breath. This isn't a good thing, almost needing  hospitalization because of a book, but I have to say that it was worth it.  &quot;Our Dumb Century&quot; is dangerously funny, but if you take  precautions (a glass of water beside you, a reliable person nearby who can  rush you to the emergency room) you'll be fine.<br />This stuff isn't for  everybody, the language is a bit rough and the politics not always correct  (thank God, too). But if you like humor that is at times completely over  the top, at others subtle and witty, and at others ridiculously absurd,  you'll love &quot;Our Dumb Century&quot;. If you don't like funny stuff  like this, well, buzz off.	2000-01-30
US	51058819	R3948GZAGKR3R7	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A very disturbing book	Every year the United States spends hundreds of billions of dollars on defense, money that is spent to ensure that books like &quot;Black Hawk Down&quot; never have to be written. This book tells about the Battle of  Mogadishu, a battle that degenerated into a fight for survival for a small  group of American soldiers sent on a fools errand. All the advantages our  military typically enjoys-- overwhelming firepower, technological  supremacy, superior training and leadership-- were made moot by thousands  of Somalis carrying easily obtained automatic weapons and RPG's. <br />The  descriptions of the battle are terrifying and almost beyond comprehension.  In one scene, an American soldier sees a man shooting a rifle at him  through the legs of a woman sitting in front of him. Small children sat on  the shooter's back, giving him added protection. At first the Americans  only fire at Somalis carrying guns, but as the situation deteriorates and  casualties mount, anything that moves is fair game. It is difficult hearing  American soldiers admit that they killed women and children, and Bowden  does an excellent job showing how, under the circumstances, this was the  only &quot;sane&quot; course of action. Surrounded, under constant fire,  and faced with an enemy using unarmed civilians as guides, scouts, and  shields, the only chance the American soldiers had was to shoot at everyone  and everything. Confusion reigned and the most powerful military force in  the world was unable to help their comrades in need. <br />If I recall  correctly 18 U.S. soldiers were killed and 73 wounded. An estimated 500  Somalis were killed and perhaps twice that many wounded. These appalling  losses came as the result of an operation that was pointless from the start  and poorly thought out and executed. This book shows that, for all our  firepower and advanced technology, a small group of irregular fighters can  inflict unacceptable casualties on American forces. Automatic rifles are  easier to buy than Levis and U.S. soldiers are not immune from bullets. The  battle of Mogadishu no doubt affected the decision not to use ground forces  in Kosovo, and will probably be a deterrent from using ground forces in the  years to come. The question as the 21st century dawns is, can the American  public accept casualties in ground combat? Will there be any lessons  learned from the terrible fighting in Somalia, and will that lesson be  &quot;keep the soldiers out of the firing line&quot;? I hope that the U.S.  military learns more from the suffering of the soldiers in &quot;Black Hawk  Down&quot; than future despots and warlords looking to skirmish with the  U.S. Army.	2000-01-22
US	51058819	R1DPCK8AJQ352Z	0805057560	741224466	The Predictors: How a Band of Maverick Physicists Used Chaos Theory to Trade Their Way to a Fortune on Wall Street	Books	2	22	28	N	N	Interesting in places, but...	I don't know about the other folks who read this book, but I found myself rooting against the good folks at Prediction Company. These extremely smart people spent years trying to discover ways of beating the markets, and I  was flipping thru the pages hoping the markets kicked their collective  backsides. I have nothing personal against the Predictors, they seem like  decent, supermegasmart people, but I don't like the idea of a bunch of  physicists using methods understandable to about .0000000001% of mankind to  beat equity markets. I don't like it that Wall Street bigwigs make a tidy  pile off the unwashed masses (i.e. people like me) because they can  manipulate markets, so why would I root for a bunch of Ph.D's to take their  place? <br />One of the main characters makes a few half-hearted attempts to  explain why what their doing isn't immoral, that they are actually helping  to make markets more efficient, but I didn't buy the arguments. Trying to  make a ton of money in equity markets is legal and laudable, and I don't  think the employees of Prediction Company had to stay up late worrying  about it. But I don't feel the need to root for them.<br />And Bass never  tells you if they end up making money. He says that there are days when  they make millions of dollars, but he never comes right out and says that  Prediction Company actually ended up in the black. Did Doyne and Norman get  rich? Did Swiss Bank take home cash in dump trucks? You never find out.  Perhaps Prediction Co. doesn't want to release that info and that's fine,  but Bass should have said that. When I finished the book I wasn't sure if  Prediction Co. was actually a success or a failure.<br />Bass inexplicably  uses the present tense in some sections of the book, why I can't fathom,  and I found this incredibly annoying. I also found it annoying that these  supposedly destitute physicists always seemed to find time to go live in  Europe for a few months or go play volleyball in South Americaor go  bodysurfing in Maui, but I think that's more a problem with envy on my part  than any fault of Bass or the Predictors.<br />Bass does do a good job in  showing the depth and scope of the options markets, such a good job that I  found myself getting sick that I'm not getting so much as a taste of that  action. I also found the parts where Prediction tries to get off the ground  very interesting. If these guys can't scare up a few million in venture  capital, how on earth do all these moron dot.coms get started?<br />All in  all, an interesting book, at times a scary book (I don't like computers who  try to predict human behavior and I hope they fail, fail, fail), and at  times a frustrating book. <br />Oh, and I think the name &quot;Prediction  Company&quot; flat out stinks. At one point the founders are going through  possible names and every other candidate they looked at was better than  &quot;Prediction&quot;. Sorry, that's my last rant.	2000-01-22
