US	51069975	R26HW5DCWW52VY	0321223721	717655279	Real World Digital Photography (2nd Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Amazing breadth	I went to a large bookstore today looking for a basic book on digital photography I could buy for my newbee sister so she could get some real insights into the camera I bought for her Christmas present. I'd looked through about fifteen different books and they all sucked until I looked at this one. I started paging through the beginning of the book and I thought, \\"This is perfect! It gives basic but rigorous descriptions of all the fundamentals that I would teach my sister myself if I lived near her.\\" Then I started looking over the rest of the book and to my amazement, I found chapters written at a depth that even I was interested in reading (look up some of my digital photography on [...]) and I ordered a copy of it for myself. I am now about to order a copy of it for my sister!	2004-11-19
US	51069975	R1DITPWNDI2SED	0879305169	254398297	Activex/Ole Programming: Building Stable Components With Microsoft Foundation Class	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Why is this book still in print?	The author apologizes because the samples don't compile and suggests we rename all the files, all 200 or whatever, I didn't even check. Then, astoundingly, he confesses that \\"the publisher included earlier and incorrect versions of a handful of chapters in the book.\\" A handful??? Which handful? ... I started reading chapter 2 (\\"Microsoft Foundation Classes and COM). That must have been one of the chapters that were published from the wrong version. There were numerous typos in it. However, even if there weren't, it is virtually unintelligible. Things come flying at you in all directions from out of the blue with no context. I'm not talking about the material covered in chapter 1 that I did not read, because I was already familiar with that type of material. It was all these MFC macros he was talking about. If I hadn't already just read the MSDN documentation, I would have been totally lost. I found this book at a used bookstore, saw the copyright date of 1998 and was trying to remember when Visual C++ 6.0 came out, to see whether he was using 5.0 or 6.0. I couldn't find that information anywhere on the front or back cover or in a forward anywhere. I took a chance and bought the book anyhow. Then I ran across a code sample that said something like, \\"Be sure you're running 5.0.\\" Brother. The other thing is, he takes pain to point out Microsoft's latest terms for things. He says they used to be called \\"servers\\" now their called \\"components.\\" Well, NOW they're called \\"servers\\" again in the MSDN documentation. I found numerous other terms that are out of date, some of which predate this book, were changed in the 5.0 timeframe, and then reverted back to the original. This book is useless.	2003-04-01
US	51069975	R14V3U4F1QT0F6	1552976831	65679633	Volcanoes (A Firefly Guide)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Stunning and beautiful; everything you always wanted to know	This a beautifully printed little book, loaded with jaw-dropping, high-resolution photographs and diagrams in stunning color. The first part of the book covers the science of volcanism, and the second part (consisting about 80% of the book) is something I have always wanted: a survey of all the great volcanoes of the world, each illustrated with beautiful photographs and diagrams. The lattitude and longitude as well as the elevation of each volcano is given, followed by the specification of the volcano type, a geological history of the volcano, and a description of access and principal attractions. You're not going to believe the variety of colors and types of volcanoes photographed in this book.	2003-03-30
US	51069975	R23OJEX5ZAKLT0	0898867223	145209762	History of the Great Mountaineering Adventures	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Great pictures, great history	This gorgeous picture book presents an excellent history of world mountaineering. I'm really particular about the mountain picture books I buy. All too many of them have fuzzy or poorly printed photos. Not this one. The photographs, both color and black and white, are printed on high quality, glossy paper with a very fine line screen, probably well above 200 lpi. Many of the photographs are absolutely outrageous. Check out the chapter on the Patagonian Andes. That chapter alone is worth the price of the book for extensive coverage of perhaps the most jaw-dropping mountain landscape in the world. Besides the modern color photographs, there are many historical black and white photographs of equal quality and sharpness, plus many early engravings of mountain scenes by 18th century explorers. The text itself is well-written with a satisfying level of detail that makes you want to keep reading, page after page. Most mountain picture books I wind up buying I just skip the words and relish the pictures. But you'd be missing a lot not to actually READ this one. Even if you don't, however, the pictures alone are more than worth the price of this book. Given the high quality of the reproductions and the quality of the compositions chosen, this book is a bargain.	2002-12-28
US	51069975	R317KOMH0URLHM	0897323831	480857244	60 Hikes within 60 Miles: Portland	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	A marvelous read, especially for a hiking guide	Over the past 25 years I've bought dozens of Pacific Northwest hiking guides and this is just about the most enjoyable one I've ever owned. It is about the only hiking guide I've ever sat down and systematically read from cover to cover, simply because it was such a joy to read and because it contained so many treasures. The author isn't merely interested in telling you how to get there and how not to miss a turn in the trail, but he shows a genuine love for each of these hikes, pointing out what is amazing about each of them, often giving a little history about the trail or other anecdotes associated with a hike, including personal experiences which are genuinely amusing or informative. I especially enjoy his appreciation of trails through old growth forests, something you don't often see in hiking guides. Most hiking guides seem to get worked up only by big, expansive views, but this author sees beauty and magnificence on all scales. Although I was familiar with at least half of these hikes, I learned about a lot of new ones that I've already started exploring. For example, check out the old growth noble firs along the PCT from Barlow Pass to the overlooks at White River Canyon. These trees are absolutely mind-boggling, not because they're big around but because they grow so amazingly tall and straight. It stimulated me to read more about these trees and I learned that they can soar into such heights with so little girth because the wood is hard and light. No Douglas Fir could get this tall without putting six feet of girth on themselves. Here you see flawless, branchless trunks as straight as nature can make them, no more than three to four feet in diameter with no perceptible taper rising two hundred feet like the pillars in a cathedral before finally displaying a puff of foliage at the top no more than 15 feet wide and 30 feet tall. And then the emerald forest of moss-infested silver firs and mountain hemlocks that follow closer to timberline have the head shaking in wonder over such stunning beauty. Thanks to this author, I discovered this incredibly beautiful section of trail after hiking all over Mt. Hood for 25 years without having discovered it. There are lots of other new possibilities of this magnitude for me that I am eager to try out, thanks to the enthusiasm and attention to detail of this author.ing in wonder over such stunning beauty. Thanks to this author, I discovered this incredibly beautiful section of trail after hiking all over Mt. Hood for 25 years without having discovered it. There are lots of other new possibilities of this magnitude for me that I am eager to try out, thanks to the enthusiasm and attention to detail of this author.	2002-12-16
US	51069975	RYNE4R097WQ71	1855857049	688583958	Ancient Trees: Trees That Live For 1,000 Years	Books	3	10	11	N	N	could be a lot better	I was hoping for two things in this book. I was hoping to get an insight into what it is that makes it possible for organisms to live so long. All we have here are anecdotes about specific species, no discussion in general about extraordinary longevity in the plant kingdom. Second, I was hoping to get a sense of scale and magnificence looking at the photographs. Personally, I found the photography mediocre. I don't care how grissled and torn up an ancient tree is, a good photographer will find a way of capturing its terrible beauty. There is little of that here. All too often the photos of these ancient beings look like nothing more than a mess. Also, some of the descriptions of the photos sound preposterous. A good example is the picture of the supposedly 6,000 year old lime tree on page 103. The text claims that the copice stool was measured to be 52 feet across. The only sense of scale suggested in the photo is the grass at the base of the stool. If that stool is 62 feet across, that makes the blades of grass 10 to 20 feet long. I just have to shake my head. If the text is building up the collosal size of some of these trees, then the photographer should try to indicate this size with perhaps someone standing next to the tree. I don't think there is a single photo in here with someone standing next to the tree. You want to know about photographing trees? See &quot;Remarkable Trees of the World&quot; by Thomas Pakenham. Now THAT guy knows how to present a collosal image! And his photos are also aesthetic masterpieces.<br />Is there anything I liked about this book? One thing I took away from this book is an appreciation of how many tree species there are in the world that live to an ancient age. I remember growing up thinking there were only three species that lived a long time: the California redwoods and the Bristlecone Pine. Then I moved to the Pacific Northwest and my knowledge expanded a little more as I discovered that cedars and yews and a few others could live a couple thousand years or so. Pakenham's two tree books then expanded my understanding even more, and now &quot;Ancient Trees&quot; has awakened me to the fact that tree species capable of living thousands of years are not all that uncommon -- maybe uncommon considering the number of tree species extant, but not uncommon geographically. They are everywhere, on all continents. This is a revelation to me. But as another reviewer pointed out, some of the claims in this book sound more like superstitions than scientific facts. 9,000 years for a single tree? I don't care if it IS a yew. Give me some proof, not the testimony of local legends.live a couple thousand years or so. Pakenham's two tree books then expanded my understanding even more, and now &quot;Ancient Trees&quot; has awakened me to the fact that tree species capable of living thousands of years are not all that uncommon -- maybe uncommon considering the number of tree species extant, but not uncommon geographically. They are everywhere, on all continents. This is a revelation to me. But as another reviewer pointed out, some of the claims in this book sound more like superstitions than scientific facts. 9,000 years for a single tree? I don't care if it IS a yew. Give me some proof, not the testimony of local legends.	2002-10-23
US	51069975	R3VS5LPJ9DF33G	0140514759	446865905	The New Penguin Opera Guide (Penguin Reference Books)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Wonderful	Years ago, I found a copy of \\"The Viking Opera Guide\\" on the shelves of a large bookstore. I was astonished by how superior it was to every other opera book I'd ever seen. I looked at the back and was discouraged by the price: .... But the book was so great I would have bought it anyhow, except the book was not in very good condition and I'm a stickler on that point. So I investigated a little further, and quickly discovered that the book was out of print! Why on earth, I wondered, since it was so obviously superior to any other book its size in print?<br />At any rate, I decided not to buy it, thinking that it was so good that another edition must be forthcoming. I waited a couple months to no avail. I broke down and decided to buy the soiled copy in the bookstore if it was still there. No such luck!<br />Now this \\"New Penguin Opera Guide\\" comes out, which is an abridgement of the original. I looked it over in a bookstore and saw immediately that it was just wonderful, albeit missing at least a third of the entries in the original Viking book. Nevertheless, at the level of my interest (complete works of Handel and Janacek, for example, but not some of the more obscure opera composers), it seemed to fulfil my craving for the original Viking book. So I bought it and I am greatly satisfied with it.<br />Still, my curiosity about the original Viking book remains. I searched Amazon for used copies. Imagine my dismay when I saw that the cheapest used example now goes for [price]! It is a collector's item priced considerably higher than its original price! So you can still get the original Viking in the used book market, but if the cost exceeds your means, this \\"New Penguin Opera Guide\\" is a worthy paperback substitute. It is a heavy volume printed on high quality paper and loaded with B&W photographs. It far exceeds its predecessor, \\"The Penguin Opera Guide\\" published in 1995. That also is an abridgement of the Viking, but it only contains about 25% of the original text and is printed on light-weight, poor quality paper. Nevertheless, what there is of the text of that edition is worthy, and it is light and small enough to stick it away on a trip to the opera. Not so this New edition, which is way too heavy and big to hide away in your coat pocket. For just browsing at home, I reiterate: it is wonderful -- until and if the original Viking is reprinted in its entirety.and is printed on light-weight, poor quality paper. Nevertheless, what there is of the text of that edition is worthy, and it is light and small enough to stick it away on a trip to the opera. Not so this New edition, which is way too heavy and big to hide away in your coat pocket. For just browsing at home, I reiterate: it is wonderful -- until and if the original Viking is reprinted in its entirety.	2002-10-11
US	51069975	R29DWMU4WNUIP	0393049116	84263197	Remarkable Trees of the World	Books	5	96	98	N	Y	Astonishing+	When I bought Pakenham's precursor to this book (&quot;Meetings With Remarkable Trees&quot;), I was astonished then. Now I've run out of superlatives, hence the plus sign suffixing the title of my review. As enjoyable as his poetic writing style is, that's just a bonus. The highly detailed photos in this book are, well, astonishing+. He uses a heavy, large-format camera, lugging it all around the world to photograph some of the most amazing trees on the planet. And as fine as the print quality was in &quot;Meeting With Remarkable Trees&quot;, the print quality of this book surpasses the former. I am constantly amazed at the print quality of the best books being printed today, and this is right up there at the top of the heap. You'll swear you're looking at fine, lithographic prints. I am a fanatic tree lover to begin with, and this book is just glorious, and satisfies my wildest dreams for such a book. It gives me a sense of ecstasy over being alive.	2002-10-11
US	51069975	R1LTGTO98W1HF7	1572316950	952707462	Programming Windows with MFC, Second Edition	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The CD ebook installs just fine	I am only reviewing this to correct a recent review that claims the ebook doesn't install because it is a Windows 16 bit application. I bought this book the first month it came out and have been using it ever since. But I never even opened the CD at the back of the book. When I saw that review, I had to see for myself if the ebook wouldn't install, since I found that pretty incredible. Turns out the ebook installs just fine under W2K. There's probably something wrong with the user's OS. I find it hard to believe that Microsoft would regress and start shipping a version of the CD where the ebook doesn't install. Since I bought mine in the first printing, I doubt whether it EVER didn't install.	2002-10-11
US	51069975	R35G8Z8JEKHTZ5	014051385X	563088858	Opera Guide, The Penguin (The Viking Opera Guide)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	inferior to the updated version	Amazon sent me this by mistake. What I really wanted was the NEW Penguin Opera Guide, which is vastly superior with twice as many pages and higher quality paper with lots of B&W photographs. It also weighs a ton compared to this lightweight. Make sure you get the new edition, unless you want something lightweight to take with you to the opera. What is here, however, is fine, just not nearly as complete as the new edition.	2002-10-03
US	51069975	R2NFFJGQT30YZR	1571882030	801293395	Columbia Gorge Hikes: 42 Scenic Hikes	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Mediocre as usual for Don and Roberta Lowe	I never did like Don and Roberta Lowe's hiking guides, but when I moved to Portland in 1977, they were they only game in town and I bought them all. This volume has a different format from all their others, which was more typical of hiking guides, containing a single, black and white photograph of a scene along each hike. This guide is larger format and loaded with sharp, well-printed color photographs. I know these hikes like the back of my hand, and their choice of photos is as mediocre as their text. They claim this is more a picture book than a hiking guide, but in fact the text for each hike follows their old plan of basically describing no more than what you can see on a good topo map. There is no &quot;hype&quot; in this book, oh, perhaps a few words at the beginning of each hike, but I always enjoy a little enthusiasm in my hiking guides and more descriptions of sights along the way. There are big disappointments. For example, they basically stop describing what Herman Creek Trail is like up to the Casey Creek Trail. But that's just where the going gets good, entering one of the most magnificent stretches of low elevation old growth in the Columbia Gorge. They don't even mention the climax at Cedar Swamp 7 miles in: a rare and awesome grove of enormous Western Red Cedars, one of the great treasures on this planet (so few of them remain). Then in the description of Eagle Creek, they don't even mention the horsetail falls just above Tunnel Falls, which for my money is a far more beautiful sight. I've always found Tunnel Falls rather harsh and forbidding. The unnamed horsetail falls just a quarter mile beyond is a gloriously graceful and awesome waterfalls, and it is almost sacreligious that they don't even mention it.<br />I seem to recall from one of their books written over 25 years ago that they want you to be surprised, and so may deliberately not describe the major highlights of a hike (besides trail junctions, which is about the only thing they talk about). This is a mistake. Mere words can't possibly give away the true magnificence of these hikes, so no matter how eloquent they might be at describing a particular attraction, there's no excuse for not going and seeing it for yourself. I keep going back to the same trails because the sights are so awesomely beautiful that my brain can't possibly retain the experience of actually being there, and I am forever surprised by the same sights year after year. So, please, hiking book writers, don't be shy about waxing ecstatic over outstanding features of a hike! Give us some incentive to go to these places! I can buy a map to see the trail junctions. I don't need what is in effect little more than a description of a map.ut). This is a mistake. Mere words can't possibly give away the true magnificence of these hikes, so no matter how eloquent they might be at describing a particular attraction, there's no excuse for not going and seeing it for yourself. I keep going back to the same trails because the sights are so awesomely beautiful that my brain can't possibly retain the experience of actually being there, and I am forever surprised by the same sights year after year. So, please, hiking book writers, don't be shy about waxing ecstatic over outstanding features of a hike! Give us some incentive to go to these places! I can buy a map to see the trail junctions. I don't need what is in effect little more than a description of a map.	2002-08-25
US	51069975	R3OCSF70FKXUI	0735613702	680521643	Programming Microsoft®  Windows® with C# (Developer Reference)	Books	5	71	73	N	Y	Destined to become a classic	This is one of the most carefully constructed books on programming that I've ever read. The book builds a doggedly focused exposition of .NET Windows Forms from the ground up, and within that subject, there is very little missing here. Further, any diversions are relegated to three superbly organized appendices on Files and Streams, math functions, and string handling, three areas which rich client windows programmers have to have good mastery of anyhow. When I say that Petzold builds his subject from the ground up, I mean that the book can and should be read like \\"War and Peace, \\" from beginning to end without skipping anything. Even if you think you understand the basics, I'd be very surprised if you didn't gain important insights you might have missed before, even from the early and elementary chapters. Virtually nothing is presupposed and your knowledge is build up, block by block. After studying this book, you will understand exactly what is happening in a .NET Windows Forms application. Other books take a shotgun approach, throwing stuff at you that may work, but without providing the background to understand what is happening beneath the sheets. Petzold does not let Visual C# generate code automatically. Visual Studio provides a lot of visual tools and wizards for quickly designing dialog box layouts and generating code frameworks, but Petzold wants you to understand what is really going on, so everything is hand-coded in this book. This can either be a warning to you, or an invitation to those who want a deep understanding of how a Windows Form is really put together. I'd say, do it Petzold's way first, and after you've mastered the foundations of Windows Forms, use the visual tools to save time when your now superior perspective can do so without running the risk of not understanding something the visual tools did that isn't quite working right and you don't have the depth of understanding to quickly zero in on the cause.<br />There is virtually nothing in this book that is not focused on .NET Windows Forms using C#. Mercifully, VB.NET isn't even mentioned. Also, you won't find diversionary chapters on ADO.NET or ASP.NET. The book treats Windows Forms basics (from the classic \\"Hello, World\\", through essential data structures and basic text output), and then alternates the chapters between topics on graphics (GDI+) and user interface elements (mouse, keyboard, timers, buttons, menus, toolbars, etc.). GDI+ is an enhancement to the old GDI and the book contains uncompromising chapters on such graphical topics as Bezier curves and other splines, including all the necessary mathematical background. In the chapter on Pages and Transforms, he presents* all the mathematical background necessary to perform the linear transformations needed to utilize the GDI+ graphical transforms. This is what I mean about uncompromising. He doesn't avoid topics in the .NET Windows Forms classes because they might require a little college algebra that most of us have probably forgotten. He just dives right in and presents everything necessary to come to grips with the deepest .NET classes in Windows Forms. About the only subject he doesn't treat is Image Color Management, a topic so vast it really deserves a book of its own (although \\"Windows 2000 Graphics API Black Book\\" has an excellent chapter on the Win32 API).<br />With such an exhaustive treatment of his subject matter, you might think this book might be pretty dry reading. Not true. Petzold writes with supreme confidence and wry wit, never cloying, always with just the right touch. This book is fun reading, his enthusiasm for his subject matter always in evidence, even when he's exhaustively presenting the methods of a class or an enumeration. You can tell he is having a ball.<br />There are lots of tables and code in the book. The code is available on an included CD. A minor problem I had is that sometimes the Beta 2 produced a bunch of \\"System.Byte not defined in the workspace\\" errors. If this happens to you, just choose Yes when it asks if you want to go ahead anyhow. The applications still work.<br />His examples are short and are easily typed in by hand, something Petzold recommends anyhow. The way I worked with this book was to embellish little programs of my own anyhow, trying out the facilities he was expositing within my own framework. I probably learned even more taking this approach rather than using his examples literally.<br />So overall, it is hard to imagine that this book could ever be surpassed. This book deservers an extra rosette, beyond the five stars for those extremely rare computer books that are destined to become a classic teaching a whole generation of programmers.ors. If this happens to you, just choose Yes when it asks if you want to go ahead anyhow. The applications still work. <br />His examples are short and are easily typed in by hand, something Petzold recommends anyhow. The way I worked with this book was to embellish little programs of my own anyhow, trying out the facilities he was expositing within my own framework. I probably learned even more taking this approach rather than using his examples literally. <br />So overall, it is hard to imagine that this book could ever be surpassed. This book deservers an extra rosette, beyond the five stars for those extremely rare computer books that are destined to become a classic teaching a whole generation of programmers.	2002-01-25
US	51069975	R28WLJNHWP3S4S	1861005547	212808827	Professional Windows Forms	Books	2	28	36	N	N	Ill-conceived and rushed into print	Ill-conceived and rushed into print<br />Wrox sure knows how to put together a beautiful looking book: the dazzling red color of the book cover contrasting with the bright yellow, shadowed titling shows that someone has done their homework on how to attract a reader to a book shelved alongside dozens of other similarly-titled books. Open up one of their books and you'll find a beautiful layout with gorgeous typography employing carefully chosen fonts for the various types of information being conveyed. Their books are chock-full of professional looking diagrams, tables, and screenshots that just suck the beholder into thinking that this must be some excellent book.<br />Sigh...if only the cosmetics reflected the contents. I know people who buy almost every Wrox book published, yet who express their disappointment time and time again because of a host of shortcomings common to so many of them. Talk about finding the sizzle irresistible regardless of the quality of the meat! \\"Professional Windows Forms\\" is a perfect example of a wonderful looking Wrox book that is just plain annoying when you get down into it. The book is supposed to teach you how to program with Windows Forms in the .NET platform (standard thick-client Windows programs). The book does cover all the bases, you can't fault it for that: there is a really good introductory chapter on the .NET framework itself, a fair overview of Visual Studio.NET, a good chapter on event handling (critical for Windows programming), how to connect controls with data from a database (something new with .NET), all the standard Windows controls (buttons, lists, trees, toolbars, menus, whatever), dialogs (modal vs. non-modal) and standard windows, common dialogs, GDI+, a chapter on debugging Windows Forms, even a chapter on localization (internationalization.) The book has all the usual Wrox shortcomings: a host of typos and misspellings, half the examples don't work, the source on the web site does not match the source in the book, sometimes the bugs are in the web site source, sometimes in the book, often in both, class and procedure names differ between the web site source and the book's printed source (so searches often fail), there is inconsistency in the presentation of material from chapter to chapter (because in this case there are eight different authors, which is actually below average for the \\"Professional\\" series Wrox books), and there is a lack of focus on the topics presented. There are a couple of extremely elementary chapters that seem completely out of place in a \\"Professional\\" series book: \\"Inheritance and Other Important New Language Features,\\" and an insultingly elementary chapter on interface design (what's a button for, etc.). There are also some topics that may be interesting in themselves but are only marginally related to Windows Forms, such as \\"Components and Reports.\\" This book is more like a grab-bag than simply Windows Forms. It even touches (but JUST touches) on building web pages with ASP.NET.<br />All that aside, the thing that I find most annoying about this book is the language mix used to teach the Windows Forms .NET classes. Three fourths of the examples in this book are in VB.NET, the rest in C#. Personally, I don't think any book purporting to instruct us about .NET classes should be using VB.NET, because the prolix and convoluted syntax of this horribly ugly language stands in the way of us clearly seeing what is going on with the .NET classes themselves, the actual topic under discussion. C# has far superior didactic power for this purpose, since it is concise and clean and lets the workings of the classes shine through transparently. A case could be made for saying that the only .NET books that should have VB.NET code in them are books whose main purpose is to teach VB.NET (it will be a detriment to the industry if this language catches on, but that is another story). But to mix VB.NET and C# in the same book, where there is not a total duplication of code for both languages (as some .NET books do), well this is simply egregious. Up to now, all serious Windows programmers, to whom presumably this book is addressed, have used either C with the Win32 SDK or C++ with MFC (or ATL). The natural language for this book's audience is C#, not VB.NET. To burden this audience with VB.NET for exposing the Windows Forms classes is an affront. Then to tease us with a little C# in an occasional chapter, especially when follow-on chapters later in the book are then presented in VB.NET, is a terrible frustration and road block for learning the actual topic at hand. Why cover up the meat with this mess of a language when it is so much more natural to expose it in C#? What was Wrox thinking? Especially nitty-gritty code like illustrating GDI+ you'd want to look as clean as possible, but they chose to write this intense chapter in the muck of VB.NET!!! Oh, how I wished I'd waited for \\"Programming Windows with C#\\" by Charles Petzold, which only just now came out. Unfortunately, \\"Professional Windows Forms\\" was the only game in town at the time I bought it and I did not look at it close enough before I brought it home and started getting into it, being suckered into it by its wonderful cover and smart typography. Oh, the price we sometimes have to pay for being early adapters!on of code for both languages (as some .NET books do), well this is simply egregious. Up to now, all serious Windows programmers, to whom presumably this book is addressed, have used either C with the Win32 SDK or C++ with MFC (or ATL). The natural language for this book's audience is C#, not VB.NET. To burden this audience with VB.NET for exposing the Windows Forms classes is an affront. Then to tease us with a little C# in an occasional chapter, especially when follow-on chapters later in the book are then presented in VB.NET, is a terrible frustration and road block for learning the actual topic at hand. Why cover up the meat with this mess of a language when it is so much more natural to expose it in C#? What was Wrox thinking? Especially nitty-gritty code like illustrating GDI+ you'd want to look as clean as possible, but they chose to write this intense chapter in the muck of VB.NET!!! Oh, how I wished I'd waited for \\"Programming Windows with C#\\" by Charles Petzold, which only just now came out. Unfortunately, \\"Professional Windows Forms\\" was the only game in town at the time I bought it and I did not look at it close enough before I brought it home and started getting into it, being suckered into it by its wonderful cover and smart typography. Oh, the price we sometimes have to pay for being early adapters!	2002-01-12
US	51069975	RFP1DK71OYN1C	0195150600	874873819	The New Oxford American Dictionary: Book and CD-ROM package (New Look for Oxford Dictionaries)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	One more correction	This is my third &quot;review&quot; of this product. Here I only want to make one important correction to my previous criticisms, where I thought it was not possible to keep the definition displayed while giving the focus to the document you are working on. It is actually possible after all. You just have to have the right set of circumstances active simultaneously, which I did not have in my previous reviews.<br />First, on the Configuration Panel, you have to have Sleep unchecked. It is unchecked by default, and I inadvertently had it checked for my reviews, so the definitions would not stay on top.<br />Second, you have to click on the down arrow in one of the definition panels (there can be multiple definition panels displayed, depending on how many different meanings are defined for a word). A checkbox will appear in the status line below the data window, labeled &quot;Keep Article Open&quot;.<br />Third, check &quot;Keep Article Open&quot;.<br />When all three of these conditions exist, you can return the focus to whatever application you were working on and the definition will remain opened and on top.<br />Sorry for the misrepresentation of this excellent product. You can see that my rating keeps going up! I am using it all the time and it is very convenient. So I guess now my only problem is that it doesn't offer any options if you misspell a word.<br />There is one other problem that could be annoying to some. The dictionary toolbar fits into the title bar of the active application, and the edit box for entering your word fits inside of that. This means that the font that is used to represent the word you type is pretty small. If you are running your display at high resolution and you don't have sharp eyesight, it may be difficult to see what you're typing. Note that setting the desktop to one of the large schemes does not help. The font is still extremely small.	2002-01-07
US	51069975	RXJPW477IE4VD	0195150600	874873819	The New Oxford American Dictionary: Book and CD-ROM package (New Look for Oxford Dictionaries)	Books	3	23	26	N	Y	Disconcertingly unobtrusive user interface	I'm not going to comment on the quality of the dictionary itself, as this has been amply treated on Amazon in reviews of the book only. I'll only comment on the installation program and the user interface.<br />1. The installation program does not make it clear that the entire database is installed on the hard disk. I didn't understand this the first time I installed it and so to prevent the program from constantly asking for the CD, I copied the CD to my hard drive and installed from the hard drive. I subsequently learned that you don't have to do this, which is good.<br />2. The installation program seems to force you to register the software and claims it won't function unless you do. So I registered it and just to test how stringent they were checking up on me, I installed it on a second machine. It asked whether I had already registered it and I said yes. Then it asked me to &quot;log in&quot; with my email address and password and the login failed with the claim that I had not registered it. I simply clicked on the close box and found the software fully operational! I then uninstalled it from the second machine to avoid a license violation.<br />3. I was shocked and a little disgruntled by how unobtrusive the user interface is. It is a toolbar that by default attaches itself to the title bar of the active application. The only thing visible is an edit box for entering a word, plus a couple of tiny buttons to the right of the edit box that you have to click on to see what they do (the buttons are too small to provide descriptive labels, and no tool tips pop up when you hover over them). When you press Enter or click on a button to the right of the edit box, a drop down list appears with the definition of the word. However, the drop down is only partly opened and you need to click on a down arrow to uncover the entire definition. I found this a nuisance.<br />4. The definition drop down box disapears if you give the focus to another application! This is a serious flaw in the interface, as I might want to read the definition as I am typing into a control in another program. However, you can copy and paste from the definition to another application. I would vastly prefer a full application dialog for the dictionary as the on-line American Heritage Dictionary provides.<br />5. They have a control panel that can be brought up by clicking on a button on the far end of the dictionary toolbar. You get tool tips when you make the mouse cursor hover over any of the option controls in the control panel. However, the tool tips typically contain too much text to be read fully before the tool tips disappear and you have to move the cursor off the control then hover again to make it reappear so you can read the rest of the tip.<br />6. The only way that I have found to dismiss a definition is to press the Esc key. There is no close box you can click on to dismiss the definition drop down box, a nuisance.<br />7. There is a help button on the control panel. This is the only way I have discovered to bring up help. Through the help page, I discovered that you can create &quot;User&quot; dictionaries. This appears to be a very powerful feature and is accessed through an icon that the installation program placed in the system tray. Be sure not to overlook this feature. A minor criticism is that the help text violates some Microsoft User Experience standards (such as using the word &quot;hit&quot; instead of &quot;press&quot;), indicating some careless quality control.<br />8. A serious flaw is that if you misspell a word, it doesn't offer any corrections as does the American Heritage Dictionary program. You're just out of luck and must try again.<br />9. The format of the dictionary entries is excellent, superior to the printed definitions in the book. Different parts of the definition are color-coded and so the various parts are much more visible than they are in the book. This I would have to say is the nicest thing about the user interface.<br />All in all, there are too many flaws in the user interface to give this product high marks at this time. I may get used to its peculiarities and unusual unobtrusiveness and come to like it more. As with anything new, it probably takes some time to get used to it. If I later develop more of a liking for the program (i.e. if I find it displacing my on-line American Heritage Dictionary) I may come back with another review and give it a better rating. Perhaps my biggest problem with the interface is that it doesn't do any spell-checking for you. That is a major flaw in the design of the program.	2002-01-03
US	51069975	R3513B0544Y0W3	0970073380	263128419	Astrobiology, the Origin of Life, and the Death of Darwinism (2nd Edition)	Books	1	24	30	N	N	Entertaining nonsense for the scientifically illiterate	Do we live in a natural universe or not? If DNA evolved naturally SOMEWHERE, then it COULD have evolved on Earth, and the biochemical search for an existence proof will eventually be found by our own scientists. This won't necessarily disprove the old idea of panspermia (of which this book is just a vainglorious rehash), but Occam's Razor might convince some that the postulate is redundant and unnecessary. There certainly is no evidence that DNA is transmitted among the planets of the universe, and until that evidence is found, it makes a lot more sense to postulate that the origin of life is something that probably happens all the time throughout the universe, and quite readily, all within the universal laws of nature, given a suitably benign environment, of which there are undoubtedly millions per galaxy, &quot;Rare Earth&quot; notwithstanding (another book full of non-sequiturs). This book is good entertainment for the scientifically illiterate and for those who wish to remain so. It is nothing more than that.	2001-11-19
US	51069975	R26LORDBZLAQ2T	1568580878	145704316	Before the Big Bang: The Origins of the Universe	Books	1	15	26	N	N	Sheer fantasy contradicted by a thousand physical facts	I can't believe how ludicrously bad this purported &quot;science&quot; book is. His theory of the origin of the universe is utterly contrived and and incoherent. It is contradicted in a thousand different ways by what we have discovered about the universe we live in. He imagines the primordial particle revolving. Relative to WHAT? He imagines the primitive particles making up a proton to be a rotating electron/positron pair. So it should be chargeless! The contradictions abound in every sentence. Maybe this is a satire, like Alan Sokal's spoof of post-modernism. If so, I give it five stars. As science, it doesn't even deserve one. No wonder I was able to pick this book up as publisher's overstock for seven bucks.	2000-12-18
US	51069975	R20TMR1INU5KW6	0738201960	437680873	The Spark Of Life: Darwin And The Primeval Soup	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A triumph of popular science writing	Where are all the reviews? Come on, people! This is a great book! It is  the best popular book I've ever read on the biology of the origin of life.  It starts out with a historical survey of the efforts to deal with this  problem. When I first picked up the book, I thought this section was only  in there to pad out the page count. But I was dead wrong. Not only is the  writing style lively and entertaining (without being too cute), but the  authors show how an understanding of the historical development of the  effort helps to understand where the science of this problem is today. You  know how they stay that God is in the details? Well, it is actually in the  nitty-gritty details in this section of the book that makes this historical  introduction valuable.<br />Anyone interested in the problem of the origin of  life knows about Stanley Miller's experiments of sending electric sparks  through a mixture of methane, ammonia, hydrogen, and water vapor and how  they produced an incredibly complex mixture of organic compounds, including  many of the amino acids of life. But never have I read such a detailed  description of the experiments. I usually gloss over descriptions of  Miller's experiments, mainly as it turns out because the descriptions are  boring without knowledge of the details. But the authors of this book show  how extremely interesting the details of these experiments actually were  and why they were so important, even though it turned out that Miller's  assumptions of the composition of the primitive atmosphere were wrong. This  level of detail sets the tone for the entire book, which really delves into  the details. Non-specialists are bound to come away with a deeper  understanding of the problems involved in understanding the origin of life,  even if they've read the popular books by Christian De Duve, Thomas Gold,  and John Maynard Smith.<br />After presenting the historical background, the  authors first take a bottom up, then a top down approach to the problem.  The bottom up approach examines various likely scenarios that have been  developed of how a basic chemical soup could have given rise to metabolism  and heredity. The top down approach looks at life as it is today and tries  to work the problem backwards. This is an especially interesting section of  the book and points out the importance of symbiosis and the probable  rampant exchange of hereditary material in the very early history of life.  The \\"tree\\" of life it turns out is not a well-organized tree at the bottom,  but a complex network where diverse, unrelated organisms freely exchanged  hereditary material. I found it very interesting that this notion was in  this book already, since it was only a few months ago that an article on  this theory appeared in Scientific American. This book is VERY up to  date.<br />Before reading this book, I was persuaded that Gold's theories of  the origin of life were very likely true, that it really formed deep within  the mantle. But after reading this book, I am no longer convinced. Read the  book, and you will see for yourself that it is much more likely that it  would take a planet subject to widely varying tides and extreme climactic  changes to provide the opportunities for the evolution of life. Conditions  in the mantle are the exact opposite of all these exciting happenings on  the surface. Similar reasoning leads the authors to speculate that the  probability of life evolving on the moons of those Jupiter-sized planets  surrounding nearby stars that have been discovered in recent years might be  very high, since the climactic swings and tidal forces caused by the large  gas parent planets would be extreme. Yes, the book ends up in a wonderful  final chapter speculating on the probability of life evolving on other  planets. At first I had the same thoughts I first had about the beginning  of the book, that this last chapter was just fluff. But soon I was utterly  riveted by their argument. A fascinating, entertaining, and extremely  enlightening book.g, entertaining, and extremely  enlightening book.	2000-09-10
US	51069975	RDVO5T2CO5RWW	0679435972	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	15	20	N	N	A thoughtful book on fundamentalism	This book tries to understand monotheistic fundamentalism, that is Muslim, Jewish, and Christian fundamentalism among all the others. That is the  \\"focus\\" of the book, such as it is. Actually, it is a very useful mix, even  though the three kinds of fundamentalism have little in common with each  other. But these three cultures are intimately entwined in modern times,  and seeing all three fundamentalist groups being described at once provides  rich opportunities for insights into why we have the problems we have today  among these three cultures. At any rate, you would be missing an enormous  education reading only the Christian parts. In fact, she seems to be  interested in fundamentalists in the order I listed above in my first  sentence, based on the amount of space she gives each in this book. Her  knowledge of Islam is renowned, and it shows in this book. But she may  perhaps be too close personally to Christian fundamentalism to treat it  with as much dignity and depth as she does Islamic fundamentalism. But all  three fundamentalisms are treated with a richness of detail that is simply  astonishing, and it is all neatly tied together from an historical point of  view.<br />Ms. Armstrong's book by volume is perhaps 95% objective and  superbly organized history, and 5% philosophy and interpretation. Her  interpretations are heavily laden with theories and assumptions, which she  rather cursorily spells out at the beginning of the book. Much of her  interpretation depends on a distinction between mythos and logos. To  simplify, mythos is the spiritual truth seen in the stories and actions  portrayed in sacred writings and traditions. The stories are regarded as  pointing beyond their literal meaning to spiritual truths that cannot be  put into literal words. Logos is practical life, getting the job done in  the most rational way possible. Ms. Armstrong seems to be saying that until  the Protestant Reformation, Christians did not read the Bible literally,  that it was always regarded as stories pointing (literally) infinitely  beyond themselves, at another plane of existence. I'm not sure I can buy  into this, as some of the basic Christian doctrines that got established in  the early Councils were the result of literal readings of the Bible being  victorious over metaphorical readings, readings that point to spiritual  truths of far greater value than what the literal readings produced in the  way of Church Dogma.<br />I have a problem with Ms. Armstrong's constant  dependence on the distinction between mythos and logos.  In the late 20th  century, which she treats at the end of her book, her emphasis is on how in  \\"former times\\" there was always this separation between the two in  everyone's mind. They each spoke of separate domains and there could be no  conflicts. I am no historian, so I can't judge how true this was in the  past, but it is an oversimplification of what is going on in the world  today. Ms. Armstrong would say that when scientific rationalists started  \\"explaining away\\" God, fundamentalism rose up as its implacable enemy. This  is what Ian Barbour calls the Conflict relationship between science and  religion. Ms. Armstrong seems to think that prior to scientific theories  coming into conflict with a literal reading of the Bible, everyone embraced  what Barbour calls the Independence relationship between science and  religion: separate domains of equal value in life but not to be mixed  together, as they dealt with separate planes of existence. Fundamentalism  gives up mythos and treats the Bible as logos, and that is the root of the  problem, according to Armstrong.<br />The important thing is, for the past  forty or fifty years at least, there have been alternatives to Conflict and  Independence, what Barbour calls Dialog and Integration. Barbour favors  Dialog and Integration, and perhaps they offer a way out of the  fundamentalist/humanist conflict. Armstrong seems only vaguely aware of  such possibilities in the last chapter of her book. Clearly, what the world  needs is a religious myth that is inextricably bound up in the scientific  picture of the world. Science and religion can no longer be independent,  and conflict is absurd, childish, and dangerous.<br />Although Ms. Armstrong  tries to understand why fundamentalists believe and behave as they do, she  does not hold back her own personal feelings about them. Ms. Armstrong  embraces modernity, the enemy and cause of fundamentalism according to her  theories. Fundamentalism attacks all of her cherished values. So when she  compares it to what she regards as the highest forms of religious behavior,  fundamentalism often comes off looking rather evil. She severely chastises  it for being unreligious, because in her view it is cruel, deliberately  ignorant, stubborn, self-righteous, and often downright terrifying.<br />Armstrong tries to show how fundamentalists are a product of the fear of  annihilation. They fear that the forces in the modern world want to  exterminate them, and with them, the only true worship of God left in the  world. So the most extreme forms of fundamentalism often strike out and try  to destroy icons in the modern world.<br />To me, all of this is  extraordinary food for thought, but even after carefully reading this  extraordinarily rich book, it is not entirely clear to me what the proper  response should be to fundamentalism. I like the prospects of Integration,  and believe that that provides the most promising solution.ilities in the last chapter of her book. Clearly, what the world  needs is a religious myth that is inextricably bound up in the scientific  picture of the world. Science and religion can no longer be independent,  and conflict is absurd, childish, and dangerous.<br />Although Ms. Armstrong  tries to understand why fundamentalists believe and behave as they do, she  does not hold back her own personal feelings about them. Ms. Armstrong  embraces modernity, the enemy and cause of fundamentalism according to her  theories. Fundamentalism attacks all of her cherished values. So when she  compares it to what she regards as the highest forms of religious behavior,  fundamentalism often comes off looking rather evil. She severely chastises  it for being unreligious, because in her view it is cruel, deliberately  ignorant, stubborn, self-righteous, and often downright terrifying.  <br />Armstrong tries to show how fundamentalists are a product of the fear of  annihilation. They fear that the forces in the modern world want to  exterminate them, and with them, the only true worship of God left in the  world. So the most extreme forms of fundamentalism often strike out and try  to destroy icons in the modern world. <br />To me, all of this is  extraordinary food for thought, but even after carefully reading this  extraordinarily rich book, it is not entirely clear to me what the proper  response should be to fundamentalism. I like the prospects of Integration,  and believe that that provides the most promising solution.	2000-08-31
US	51069975	R3DO7O1YGXLDDX	006060381X	278596244	When Science Meets Religion: Enemies, Strangers, or Partners?	Books	5	81	90	N	N	A whirlwind tour of Ian Barbour's thought	To my mind, Ian Barbour writes more clearly about the relationship between  Christianity and science than any other published author I'm acquainted  with. He is fully aware that Christianity is not the only path to God and  salvation, but he is most comfortable talking within the framework of his  own Christian background, so this book is really about the relationship  between Christianity and science, not religion in general and science. But  that is okay, because he allows that other religious traditions can also be  paths to God. It's just that to give the book more focus and relevance to  its English-speaking audience, he discusses the Christian encounter with  science. Barbour presents a remarkably well thought out survey of this  topic, always making it clear where he personally stands on the issues, and  why.<br />Barbour treats his subject matter in two-dimensional matrix format,  with one axis portraying the degrees of cooperation between science and  religion and the other axis the various branches of science. Barbour  identifies four fundamental ways in which his topic is treated by  interested parties. These are Conflict, Independence, Dialog, and  Integration. He then outlines the major positions in each of these  categories across the major branches of science: astronomy, particle  physics, evolution by natural selection, neuroscience, and finally the  natural world in general (as described by science).<br />Biblical literalists  and scientific materialists are in irreconcilable conflict on the issues of  science and religion. Barbour thinks we can do much better than that, and  makes quick work of both sides of the issues dealt with at the Conflict  level. Neither is Barbour much impressed by the next level, Independence.  In virtually every one of his analyses, treating religion and science as if  they are independent categories of being that do not bear on each other is  seen to be intellectually, spiritually, and scientifically  bankrupt.<br />Barbour perks up when he comes to discussing the ideas of  scientists and Christians who are interested in constructive dialog and  even better, integration. Dialog and integration blend into each other, as  Barbour repeatedly shows. When both sides have open minds and are not  dogmatic about their religious beliefs, it is apparently not that difficult  to find many promising possibilities for integration. If the basis of  religion is real (the experience of the divine), then it should not be  surprising at all if the Ground of Being turns out to be thoroughly  saturated and mixed up in the universe revealed by science. So why  shouldn't it be a fertile area for thought that merits careful  consideration?<br />Barbour seems to place himself close to the process  theologians, who believe that there is awareness at all levels of organized  complexity, and that there is a freedom inherent in this complexity that is  outside of the powers of God to interfere with. The one theme however that  kept coming up (because of the interference of classical Christian beliefs  about the omnipotence of God) was how God was only lacking omnipotence  because he voluntarily relinquishes it for the sake of freedom in the  world. Process theologians seem to want to hold onto the ultimate  omnipotence of God over matter. He could instantly rub it out if he decided  he didn't like it anymore.<br />I personally would take one step further and  say that God is inherently unable to control \\"brute matter\\" and it is not  simply a matter of voluntary relinquishment of power. God can only  influence \\"top down,\\" by acting as a lure to conscious creatures. God is  powerless against unconscious matter because of the very way he creates: in  creating the fundamental particles, which have the lowest possible  awareness of any wholeness regardless of complexity, he is by necessity  giving up control over them, taking the risk that because they are  ultimately from God himself they have within themselves the power to  self-assemble universes and worlds such as the incredibly interesting one  we live in. Then when self-conscious creatures such as human beings finally  evolve, for the first time God has the possibility of self-consciously  taking over the direction of evolution, through US, self-conscious,  technological creatures.<br />But that is a different book than the one  Barbour writes. The one he writes is a whirlwind tour through his own  thought and powerful ways of looking at the problems of science vs.  religion. Barbour's book covers an incredible amount of material in 180,  short pages. If this book takes your breath away and leaves you with the  feeling that there is a lot more of extreme interest to this subject than  Barbour allows himself in this little primer, fear not. Barbour provides  much more satisfying treatments of his thought in books like \\"Religion and  Science, Historical and Contemporary Issues\\" and \\"Ethics in an Age of  Technology.\\" If after reading this book, you feel teased if not cheated,  those two books will deliver the richness and depth that \\"When Science  Meets Religion\\" by its very design, cannot provide.he power to  self-assemble universes and worlds such as the incredibly interesting one  we live in. Then when self-conscious creatures such as human beings finally  evolve, for the first time God has the possibility of self-consciously  taking over the direction of evolution, through US, self-conscious,  technological creatures. <br />But that is a different book than the one  Barbour writes. The one he writes is a whirlwind tour through his own  thought and powerful ways of looking at the problems of science vs.  religion. Barbour's book covers an incredible amount of material in 180,  short pages. If this book takes your breath away and leaves you with the  feeling that there is a lot more of extreme interest to this subject than  Barbour allows himself in this little primer, fear not. Barbour provides  much more satisfying treatments of his thought in books like \\"Religion and  Science, Historical and Contemporary Issues\\" and \\"Ethics in an Age of  Technology.\\" If after reading this book, you feel teased if not cheated,  those two books will deliver the richness and depth that \\"When Science  Meets Religion\\" by its very design, cannot provide.	2000-08-05
US	51069975	RBVUZHJW9H7AR	0679435972	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	116	142	N	N	Great history, problematical analysis	This book tries to understand monotheistic fundamentalism, that is Muslim, Jewish, and Christian fundamentalism among all the others. That is the \\"focus\\" of the book, such as it is. Actually, it is a very useful mix, even though the three kinds of fundamentalism have little in common with each other. But these three cultures are intimately entwined in modern times, and seeing all three fundamentalist groups being described at once provides rich opportunities for insights into why we have the problems we have today among these three cultures. At any rate, you would be missing an enormous education reading only the Christian parts. In fact, she seems to be interested in fundamentalists in the order I listed above in my first sentence, based on the amount of space she gives each in this book. Her knowledge of Islam is renowned, and it shows in this book. But she may perhaps be too close personally to Christian fundamentalism to treat it with as much dignity and depth as she does Islamic fundamentalism. But all three fundamentalisms are treated with a richness of detail that is simply astonishing, and it is all neatly tied together from an historical point of view.<br />Armstrong's book by volume is perhaps 95% objective and superbly organized history, and 5% philosophy and interpretation. Her interpretations are heavily laden with theories and assumptions, which she rather cursorily spells out at the beginning of the book. Much of her interpretation depends on a distinction between mythos and logos. To simplify, mythos is the spiritual truth seen in the stories and actions portrayed in sacred writings and traditions. The stories are regarded as pointing beyond their literal meaning to spiritual truths that cannot be put into literal words. Logos is practical life, getting the job done in the most rational way possible. Armstrong seems to be saying that until the Protestant Reformation, Christians did not read the Bible literally, that it was always regarded as storiespointing (literally) infinitely beyond themselves, at another plane of existence. I'm not sure I can buy into this....<br />I have a problem with Armstrong's constant dependence on the distinction between mythos and logos.  In the late 20th century, which she treats at the end of her book, her emphasis is on how in \\"former times\\" there was always this separation between the two in everyone's mind. They each spoke of separate domains and there could be no conflicts. I am no historian, so I can't judge how true this was in the past, but it is an oversimplification of what is going on in the world today. Armstrong would say that when scientific rationalists started \\"explaining away\\" God, fundamentalism rose up as its implacable enemy. This is what Ian Barbour calls the Conflict relationship between science and religion. Armstrong seems to think that prior to scientific theories coming into conflict with a literal reading of the Bible, everyone embraced what Barbour calls the Independence relationship between science and religion: separate domains of equal value in life but not to be mixed together, as they dealt with separate planes of existence. Fundamentalism gives up mythos and treats the Bible as logos, and that is the root of the problem, according to Armstrong. .... Barbour favors Dialog and Integration, and perhaps they offer a way out of the fundamentalist/humanist conflict. Armstrong seems only vaguely aware of such possibilities in the last chapter of her book. .... <br />Although Armstrong tries to understand why fundamentalists believe and behave as they do, she does not hold back her own personal feelings about them. ....	2000-07-28
US	51069975	R11GVQ05NLW1UD	1572319968	169000717	Programming Applications for Microsoft Windows (Dv-Mps General)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Simply what the professional developer needs to know	I don't know what other reviewers are talking about claiming this is for &quot;advanced&quot; Microsoft developers only. This book describes bread and butter Microsoft development for C and C++ professional developers. Any  serious program has to use all kinds of the facilities described in this  book just to get anything done that is interesting and worthwhile. The  value of this book is that the things you need to know to do this  development are presented clearly and systematically. This has been the  virtue of all past iterations of this book, and each subsequent edition has  been an improvement on the past. The alternative to this book is digging  through the SDK, which you can do with the on-line help. THAT I would call  boring. But I can't imagine that a truly professional Microsoft C or C++  developer would find this book boring, as one of the reviewers has. I  appreciate the fact that it is not full of cute little asides or sarcastic  observations. It is a professional presentation addressed to professional  developers who needs to know this stuff just to do their jobs or to get  through an interview for a new job.	2000-07-18
US	51069975	R2EUJD8Q8MMTA3	0071359966	766401615	Closer to Truth: Challenging Current Belief	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Too superficial and lacking in focus	This book has a lot going for it: a superb cast of players and a list of fascinating topics. Unfortunately, the format does not lend itself to depth and focus. The chapters are in the form of dialogs, the transcripts from a  TV series, actually. Pit five or six world-renowned scientists together in  the same room, give them a fascinating topic, and watch the fireworks.  Unfortunately, not much can happen in this kind of a forum. Just as one of  the participants starts getting into the meat of something, someone who  disagrees interjects with his own agenda and they are off in another  direction before the idea can be explored in any depth. In chapter after  chapter I came away with the feeling of not being any more enlightened than  I was at the beginning. There are an incredible number of interesting ideas  discussed in this book that simply are not followed through in enough  detail to let you feel that you've actually heard a well-rounded argument.  I'd much rather have a single author of wide vision and open mind such as  John D. Barrow write a book covering these topics than this diffuse  presentation. A waste of the serious seeker's time.	2000-06-12
US	51069975	R2QFQE1VQKVUMZ	0738202037	697514957	Supersymmetry : Unveiling the Ultimate Laws of Nature	Books	5	65	71	N	Y	Stunning, brilliant, and important	If I had not previously read Gordon Kane's &quot;Particle Garden&quot; and had only read the Amazon editorial reviews and single customer review that is currently on the site, I would not have bought and read this book. Then  my understanding of the significance of symmetry, supersymmetry, and string  theory and the relationships among them all would have remained fuzzy and  incoherent. I have to admit that some of this stuff is still fuzzy and  incoherent in my mind, but this exciting and important book cleared up so  much for me that I have to regard it as one of the most enlightening books  of popular science I have ever read, ranking with Guth's &quot;Inflationary  Universe&quot; and Brian Green's &quot;The Elegant Universe&quot;, to  mention two outstanding books on related topics that have recently been  published.<br />I have to admit that a lot of the stuff in this book is so  strange and unfamiliar that I really need to go back and read the book  again to pick up more of it. But this book is far superior to every other  book I've read that has tried to explain Supersymmetry to me, including  various Scientific American articles. Maybe I had finally collected enough  background understanding for this stuff to suddenly start sinking in, but  this is the first book on Supersymmetry that I've read that seems to take  the subject head-on, and not back away from the daunting challenge of  explaining the actual mechanics of the theory in terms a layperson can  understand. And why not? Professionally, Gordon Kane is right in the middle  of this, and he has a profound understanding of both the theory and the  practice of particle physics. He took me deep enough into the intricacies  of the theory that suddenly all kinds of things started falling into place,  not just the facts of Supersymmetry Theory themselves, but the concepts and  terminology that I had encountered so many times before that I had found  completely befuddling.<br />Several things really stand out in my mind about  this book, not necessarily the most important points, but items that just  seemed to click in me. First, Supersymmetry presents a solid theory behind  what the Dark Matter of the universe might consist of, and why Dark Matter  doesn't seem to interact with ordinary matter except gravitationally. It  just seems so logical the way Kane presents it, that Supersymmetry provides  the source for Dark Matter, and I finally have some kind of understanding  of what all these strangely named supersymmetry particles are and how they  relate to ordinary matter, and how they aren't so strangely named after  all. Of course the theory might be completely wrong, but Kane brilliant  manages to convey to an ordinary reader like myself the compelling nature  that its theoreticians feel about this theory. After reading this book, I  would be astonished, as its current theoreticians also would be, to later  learn that experimental evidence had been discovered that disproved it. It  just explains too much for it not to be true. Yet, as Kane clearly points  out, we don't yet have the experimental evidence to say one way or the  other. All we currently have are the elegance and completeness of its  explanations.<br />This brings up another wonderful concept that I learned  from Kane: the idea of an &quot;effective theory.&quot; This is a theory  that has a domain only within certain limits and is effective (in effect)  only within those limits. Supersymmetry is an effective theory. It doesn't  go &quot;all the way down.&quot; Only String Theory does that. String  Theory is at the bottom, explaining the basis of everything at the  indivisible Planck scales of space and time. String Theory is sometimes in  fact called the &quot;Theory of Everything&quot;, but (and this is another  highly appreciated insight from Kane) Kane much more accurately calls it  the Primary Theory, the first theory, the theory that explains the  &quot;why&quot; of everything. String Theory is not aneffective theory.  Effective theories must have inputs, &quot;givens&quot;. The mass of an  electron is a given in Quantum Theory, but it is *predicted* by String  Theory. So String Theory doesn't have any inputs. Each of its basic  principles *must* be true if the universe is constructed the way particle  physics has discovered it to be. This is why it is a &quot;Primary  Theory&quot;. It consists of the first principles by which our universe is  physically governed.<br />Supersymmetry sits right above String Theory,  between String Theory and Quantum Theory. It bridges the gap between the  Planck scale of things and the scale of quarks, electrons, and photons.  Appreciating these relationships is one of the most valuable insights I got  out of this book. On hindsight, I'm amazed that I never had this  understanding before. But in reading another popular science book just  recently published, I found the distinction between Supersymmetry and  String Theory completely muddled, so I'm not the only one, and I'm not a  professional science writer, either. After read the Kane, it was  immediately obvious to me that this other science writer should have done a  little more brushing up on the topics before commenting on them and  treating the theories as if they were virtually interchangeable.<br />Quantum  Theory is one of the most securely established scientific theories ever  discovered. But when we go below that, we have yet to discover whether the  best theories we have are actually true, namely Supersymmetry and String  Theory. Both of these theories are what Kane calls \\"RIP\\" sciences,  \\"research in progress.\\" What this means is that this book is about the  hottest topics going on in physics today, topics that have not yet become  \\"textbook\\" science.<br />The exciting thing is that Supersymmetry Theory is on  the verge of achieving this status, either that or of being refuted by  actual experimental results.  As Kane so lovingly portrays, these results  will come from the most advanced existing particle accelerators in the  world today, as well as a few even more powerful machines that will be  built in the next five years. We will soon know for sure whether  Supersymmetry is true. That is, we will know that, assuming that these  future particle accelerators are actually funded and built. This also  assumes that there will exist a critical mass of scientists capable of  building them. Kane expresses concern that there will not be enough public  interest to generate the funding to complete this experimental research,  and therefore, there will not be the draw into the field required to  maintain this critical mass of talent capable of doing the work. This is  actually a critical moment in the history of human thought and  understanding. Humanity has the opportunity to unlock the ultimate laws of  the universe. But it has to take that opportunity now, or it may simply  lose the expertise to do it, for the tragic reason that there isn't enough  blasted funding for it! What an opportunity that is at our front door! I  wish this book could be read by the widest audience possible, so that the  urgency and importance of Kane's plea could be understood by the critical  mass of lay people necessary to make sure scientists like Kane are able to  take these next few steps that will reveal to humanity why the universe is  construct the way it is. We do it now, or it may never happen.effective theory.  Effective theories must have inputs, &quot;givens&quot;. The mass of an  electron is a given in Quantum Theory, but it is *predicted* by String  Theory. So String Theory doesn't have any inputs. Each of its basic  principles *must* be true if the universe is constructed the way particle  physics has discovered it to be. This is why it is a &quot;Primary  Theory&quot;. It consists of the first principles by which our universe is  physically governed. <br />Supersymmetry sits right above String Theory,  between String Theory and Quantum Theory. It bridges the gap between the  Planck scale of things and the scale of quarks, electrons, and photons.  Appreciating these relationships is one of the most valuable insights I got  out of this book. On hindsight, I'm amazed that I never had this  understanding before. But in reading another popular science book just  recently published, I found the distinction between Supersymmetry and  String Theory completely muddled, so I'm not the only one, and I'm not a  professional science writer, either. After read the Kane, it was  immediately obvious to me that this other science writer should have done a  little more brushing up on the topics before commenting on them and  treating the theories as if they were virtually interchangeable.<br />Quantum  Theory is one of the most securely established scientific theories ever  discovered. But when we go below that, we have yet to discover whether the  best theories we have are actually true, namely Supersymmetry and String  Theory. Both of these theories are what Kane calls \\"RIP\\" sciences,  \\"research in progress.\\" What this means is that this book is about the  hottest topics going on in physics today, topics that have not yet become  \\"textbook\\" science.<br />The exciting thing is that Supersymmetry Theory is on  the verge of achieving this status, either that or of being refuted by  actual experimental results.  As Kane so lovingly portrays, these results  will comefrom the most advanced existing particle accelerators in the  world today, as well as a few even more powerful machines that will be  built in the next five years. We will soon know for sure whether  Supersymmetry is true. That is, we will know that, assuming that these  future particle accelerators are actually funded and built. This also  assumes that there will exist a critical mass of scientists capable of  building them. Kane expresses concern that there will not be enough public  interest to generate the funding to complete this experimental research,  and therefore, there will not be the draw into the field required to  maintain this critical mass of talent capable of doing the work. This is  actually a critical moment in the history of human thought and  understanding. Humanity has the opportunity to unlock the ultimate laws of  the universe. But it has to take that opportunity now, or it may simply  lose the expertise to do it, for the tragic reason that there isn't enough  blasted funding for it! What an opportunity that is at our front door! I  wish this book could be read by the widest audience possible, so that the  urgency and importance of Kane's plea could be understood by the critical  mass of lay people necessary to make sure scientists like Kane are able to  take these next few steps that will reveal to humanity why the universe is  construct the way it is. We do it now, or it may never happen.	2000-05-31
US	51069975	R3SZBFN2SIJ0CK	0198503113	982716989	The Variety of Life: A Survey and a Celebration of All the Creatures that Have Ever Lived	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	A vast survey of biodiversity	This book is about breadth, not depth. From the perspective of this book, Passeriformes are about as interesting as all of the little rodents scurrying around, regardless of what birders think about them. And the book  DOES explicitly place lice in their proper perspective, to correct an error  made by another reviewer. There are all kinds of interesting small articles  that treat particularly interesting aspects of certain groups of organisms:  a vertable gold mind of fascinating relationships. Don't go to this book to  find out about particular plants an animals, but to find out about the vast  diversity of life on this planet and how it all relates together.	2000-05-28
US	51069975	R3E28SZBX8VW28	0520223233	252341373	An Inordinate Fondness for Beetles	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Jaw-dropping beauty	This is one of the most gorgeous books I own. I look at these pictures, and I think that human beings could not dream up jewelry that touches the beauty of these creatures. It is utterly unbelievable! Every time I page through this book my jaw is open in disbelief. They are so breathtaking  they almost bring tears to my eyes. Okay. Confession time. They HAVE  brought tears to my eyes.	2000-05-02
US	51069975	RMN30KUV0EQOG	0684859203	363131804	Noah's Flood: The New Scientific Discoveries About The Event That Changed History	Books	3	20	30	N	N	To much peripheral, personal material	&quot;Noah's Flood&quot; contains fascinating narratives on several astonishing, geologically confirmed flood events that have actually happened in Earth's history. This is what I found interesting in this book.  But the book contains much more material than just that, a lot of it rather  tedious, for me at least. It is as if the scientists who actually performed  a lot of the basic research took their diaries and rewrote them in book  form. After a while, all the personal detail bored me and I found myself  skimming for the meat. There is an interesting argument explaining how  stories with grains of historical truth in them can be transmitted by  pre-literate cultures over periods of thousands of years, remembering  highly impressive and disruptive events that happened to their ancestors.  This argument is central to the thesis of the book, which is that massive  geological floods into the Black Sea basin are the source of all the flood  mythologies in the various religions that sprung up around this area,  including the Sumerian religion and Judaism. After reading the book, I was  left with the impression that this conclusion is plausible, but that the  case really wasn't proved. To me, the most interesting parts of the book  were the dramatic descriptions of what these massive flood events must have  looked like to the terrified observers: waterfalls 200 times the volume of  Niagra (I forget the actual number: it was huge).	2000-04-20
US	51069975	R3ODMWLQGZ7XVT	0465036724	413412337	Just Six Numbers: The Deep Forces that Shape the Universe	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Much better than his last book	&quot;Just Six Numbers&quot; is a fascinating and quick read on how six crucial numbers describe the characteristics of the universe we live in. If any of them were changed ever so slightly, the character of our universe  would change drastically and it would no longer be a friendly place for  life to evolve. There are a dozen books a year written on cosmology at this  level. I judge a book like this by how many times my brain lights up with  an insight that I'd never realized before. This happened a lot more reading  this book than Rees's previous book, &quot;Before the Beginning&quot; to  which I gave three stars. Even if you read lots of books like this every  year, you probably will not waste your time reading this one, especially  since it is such a quick read.	2000-04-20
US	51069975	R2XESR6DCOKGL	0738200689	924275143	The Runaway Universe : The Race to Discover the Future of the Cosmos (Helix Books)	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Gets the adrenaline running	&quot;The Runaway Universe&quot; is the latest news on the cosmological constant, reincarnated (after Einstein called it his worst blunder) because of evidence recently discovered that the rate the universe is expanding is  actually increasing. This is a fascinating book that doesn't back away from  informing us about just how tentative these latest findings are. The book  also is good at describing the almost frightening consequences of these  findings, if they are true: the universe will basically evaporate away much  faster than we'd ever dreamed of before (but it will still take billions of  years, so don't worry about it at the personal level). This is one of many  popular books that appear each year on cosmology. Generally I judge them by  how many times I feel satisfied that I am understanding for the first time  something I've run across many times before in my readings but it never  sunk in. The chapter on the various types of supernova struck me this way:  absolutely outstanding and clear, and worth the price of the book alone, in  my opinion.	2000-04-20
US	51069975	R1NC214S58W1K8	0813367239	333614092	God After Darwin: A Theology Of Evolution	Books	4	35	46	N	N	Terrific for other Christian theologians	&quot;God After Darwin&quot; was written by a Christian theologian for other Christian theologians, at least that is my take on it. Haught tries to show that the theory of evolution not only does not invalidate  Christianity, but it throws light on the &quot;true&quot; Christian message  (true on his interpretation of Christianity). He tries to show other  Christian theologians that there is no need for God to exercise  supernatural powers in the world, and that God is absolutely and  necessarily innocent of any evil in the world. Unfortunately, these  arguments aren't of much interest to anyone who isn't already deeply  committed to the essential Christian traditions. Christianity carries too  much baggage for such people. Only Christian theologians would find it  interesting that certain of their fellows can bob and weave traditional  Christian beliefs through the hoops of modern cosmology and biological  evolution without doing inordinate injustice to them. The center of the  book is especially onerous for non-Christians, where Haught's speculations  stretch credulity to the limit and where he often walks on shaky scientific  grounds. The last third of the book is far more satisfactory, where he gets  into discussions of process theology, but it is here where he also seems to  detach himself the most from actual Christian traditions. The first third  of the book is also excellent, where he states his problem brilliantly.  Where he actually gets down to executing his agenda however, in the second  third of the book, the book falls off, in my opinion. For Christian  theologians, I give it five stars. For non-Christian theists, I give it two  stars, as being largely irrelevant to their concerns.	2000-04-20
US	51069975	R146GY7C0LBUFU	1883403618	920372813	Magic Lantern Guides®: Nikon F100	Books	5	116	122	N	N	Far exceeded my expectations, truly enlightening	I have several Magic Lantern Guides, and generally speaking, they are less than inspiring, usually little more than rehashes of the manufacturers' instruction booklets: a regurgitation of all the features, perhaps a little better organized, but not explaining what the features are actually best  used for, or what circumstances they are best used in, or how to achieve  specific goals given the functionality of the equipment being  described.<br />This Nikon F100 book suffers from none of these liabilities.  In fact, when I started reading it, I was initially confused by how much  practical, general purpose information it contained. I thought to myself,  buyers of the F100 are serious amateurs and pros. Why do these readers need  all this discussion of basic photographic principles? I could get that from  Kodak! But the book gets into the meat of F100 operations soon enough, and  every feature is described within a solid context of photographic theory  and principles. You will not lose your way in this book!<br />I thought I was  in heaven when I read the section on autofocus tracking. The main reason I  bought the F100 was because I was so disappointed in the performance of my  N90 (not the N90s). It couldn't track my cockatoo on the wing worth beans!  So when I read that the F100 had really fast tracking autofocus, I couldn't  wait to put the money together to get one. Unfortunately, however, I  couldn't make heads or tails out of the instruction manual that accompanied  it, and I wasn't getting much better results than I got with my old N90.<br />Then this little book fell into my hands, and the fog lifted from my  eyes! Their description of F100 autofocus is so CLEAR. I could finally see  what I was doing wrong, and all the complexities of the F100 autofocus  system crystallized into something that now seemed superbly designed and  superbly thought out, and truly was light years ahead of that old N90 of  mine. After reading this section of the book, I quickly mastered all of the  intricacies of F100 autofocus and was able to perceive it as a system with  a very logical structure, and I knew exactly how to set it up to accomplish  my goals, and why I was doing it. And I did accomplish my goals.<br />The rest  of the book is of equally high quality. Far more than a catalog of  technical features, you are taught what they are all for, and how they can  be used in the light of standard, good photographic principles.<br />Some  pros may be annoyed by the &quot;elementary&quot; photographic principles  that this book reviews. But I believe that there is a huge audience for  books like this, for really serious amateurs who could use some good doses  of sound photographic technique, highly integrated into a penetrating  description of the technical features of a piece of photographic equipment.  I'd love to see a book of this caliber on the advanced Metz or Quantum  flashes, so I would be able to make an informed decision about whether it  would be worth my while to make the sizeable monetary investment in one of  those systems for the highly challenging task I've set myself, of  photographing my pet cockatoo on the wing!astered all of the  intricacies of F100 autofocus and was able to perceive it as a system with  a very logical structure, and I knew exactly how to set it up to accomplish  my goals, and why I was doing it. And I did accomplish my goals.<br />The rest  of the book is of equally high quality. Far more than a catalog of  technical features, you are taught what they are all for, and how they can  be used in the light of standard, good photographic principles. <br />Some  pros may be annoyed by the &quot;elementary&quot; photographic principles  that this book reviews. But I believe that there is a huge audience for  books like this, for really serious amateurs who could use some good doses  of sound photographic technique, highly integrated into a penetrating  description of the technical features of a piece of photographic equipment.  I'd love to see a book of this caliber on the advanced Metz or Quantum  flashes, so I would be able to make an informed decision about whether it  would be worth my while to make the sizeable monetary investment in one of  those systems for the highly challenging task I've set myself, of  photographing my pet cockatoo on the wing!	2000-03-06
US	51069975	R3BE106YO385FM	081293265X	117438870	Times Atlas of the World : 10th Comprehensive Edition	Books	5	198	203	N	N	The most detailed physical world atlas available	I've been collecting atlases for over 30 years, including three different editions of this one. I still have the 8th edition, and now I've lived with the 10 edition for a couple months and am ready to state my opinion, and  compare it to previous editions.<br />First, I'd like to make a general  observation about these Times Atlases. They have all carried about 20% of  their maps in a vertical orientation. This is all right in atlases that are  of a more manageable size, but for a book that weighs 11 pounds, it is  burdensome to be flipping it around every few pages. I just had to get that  out of the way, because it has always bothered me.<br />The strength of the  Times Atlas of the World has always been the details and accuracy of its  physical maps, showing the topographic layout of the land. The colors  chosen to do so were more garish in previous editions than in this 10th,  and on a first impression, the maps in the 10th edition look strikingly  more beautiful. They are works of art. However, I am not convinced that the  new colors are more useful. As was pointed out in a review below, what is  missing is the sharp contrast from one elevation interval to the next, so  it is actually more difficult to figure out the details of the typography,  without using a magnifying glass. I think utility was sacrificed to sheer  beauty in this case. But let there be no misunderstanding. These maps are  probably the most beautiful physical representations of the land that have  ever been published at this scale, and due to the digital database upon  which the printing was based, without doubt, the most  accurate.<br />Continuing with the theme of this book's utility, I find that I  can't see the forest for the trees with this edition. For example, I found  it much easier to trace out the sources of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers  in the old editions, with their use of more contrasting colors. There is  almost too much detail at all scales to figure out what's actually going on  with the layout of the land. Even plate 37, which is a 1:15,000,000 map of  north Asia, there is an almost bewildering amount of data shown in the  European regions of this map. Only in the Siberian wastelands can you see  what's really going on, and who cares about that except the intrepid  geographer (that's me, actually)? I suspect that what is going on here is  that the computers that generated these maps have been allowed to run  amuck, without enough editorial control and selection over the  results.<br />Since 90% of this atlas consists of physical maps of stunning  detail and beauty, I would think that this atlas would appeal most strongly  to individuals who were interested in the physical features of the surface  of our planet. Yet, what do we get in the opening 60 pages of thematics?  Well, it starts out with 14 pages of satellite maps covering the whole  Earth. That would seem like a fine start, except very little commentary is  provided interpreting what we're looking at. These are beautiful plates,  but I don't see that they're very useful. Then we have several obligatory  pages showing the Earth's place in the universe, which to my mind is just  fluff in an atlas (admittedly, most atlases waste space doing this). Of the  remaining 34 thematic pages, less than half are devoted to describing  physical features of the world. The rest are more concerned with political  and economic issues. There isn't even a map showing world precipitation  (which was presented in Plate 2 of the 8th edition), only a tiny map  showing the CHANGES in precipitation we might expect by the year 2050,  which is highly speculative! I shouldn't be too critical here, because  thematic maps have never been the strong suit of the Times Atlas of the  World, and were even more impoverished in the 8th edition. But I do wish  there were more, of the same caliber as the main body of the work.<br />On the  whole, the selection of the maps is good, although the selection seems to  be politically, rather than physically, based. So there are some favorites  of mine missing. The 8th edition had superb, separate maps of Alaska and  the Canadian Northwest Territories at 1:5,000,000 that are missing in this  edition. Also missing are superb 1:500,000 maps of Switzerland and Israel  that appeared in the 8th edition. On the other hand, there are great, two  page spreads of Poland and Turkey that didn't appear in previous  editions.<br />In spite of my criticisms, I wouldn't be caught dead without  this latest, gorgeous 10th edition of the Times Atlas of the World. But I  am a map fanatic, and I'll buy maps just because of their aesthetic appeal.  This 10th edition has beauty like no other atlas that I have ever seen  before. But I do think that, when it comes to usefulness, this atlas is a  specialty item, especially at its price. If you're looking for some obscure  place, the 220,000 entries in its index will probably let you find it. But  unless you do this for a living, there are probably better options out  there, unless you just love maps for the sake of maps, like me. Heck, in  spite of everything I've said in this review, I have to give it five stars,  because there's simply nothing else comparable, for what it is.e politically, rather than physically, based. So there are some favorites  of mine missing. The 8th edition had superb, separate maps of Alaska and  the Canadian Northwest Territories at 1:5,000,000 that are missing in this  edition. Also missing are superb 1:500,000 maps of Switzerland and Israel  that appeared in the 8th edition. On the other hand, there are great, two  page spreads of Poland and Turkey that didn't appear in previous  editions.<br />In spite of my criticisms, I wouldn't be caught dead without  this latest, gorgeous 10th edition of the Times Atlas of the World. But I  am a map fanatic, and I'll buy maps just because of their aesthetic appeal.  This 10th edition has beauty like no other atlas that I have ever seen  before. But I do think that, when it comes to usefulness, this atlas is a  specialty item, especially at its price. If you're looking for some obscure  place, the 220,000 entries in its index will probably let you find it. But  unless you do this for a living, there are probably better options out  there, unless you just love maps for the sake of maps, like me. Heck, in  spite of everything I've said in this review, I have to give it five stars,  because there's simply nothing else comparable, for what it is.	2000-02-27
US	51069975	R25ZL3UF3RCMK5	0898866901	443098371	Bradford Washburn: Mountain Photography	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Stunning beyond belief	You will not believe your eyes when you see this book! For the most part, these are large-format, black and white, aerial photographs taken mainly in Alaska, but also some from the Swiss Alps and the American Southwest.  Apparently, they originally had the practical purpose of surveying the  land, but they have astonishing artistic value, and the reproductions are  stunning. Many of the pictures were apparently taken with the sun low in  the sky, and so the shadows sharply etch the relief, and these pictures  almost spring out of the page. We live on a gloriously beautiful planet,  and these photographs capture that beauty from a unique perspective and  show it off as seldom seen before.	2000-02-17
US	51069975	R2F4SD8WMKQ6AH	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Nothing left of Christianity after this analysis	Until I read this book, I was still interested in the question of how Christianity could be reconciled to our modern scientific understanding of the universe in which we live. I picked up the book hoping I would find an  answer to this question. Instead, I found that after Bishop's Spong's  analysis, there wasn't anything left of Christianity really worth keeping.  Jesus was a man who was profoundly grasped by God, and who so affected  those around him that his memory empowered a religion that lasted 2,000  years (even though I believe that for the most part he was &quot;sold  out&quot; by the Church hierarchies). But it's time we all moved on. It's  time we put away &quot;childish things&quot; and wishful thinking, and try  to formulate a concept of God that we in fact still find alive within  ourselves (that cannot be helped) that is fully informed by modern science.  Even though this book failed to convince me that Christianity even CAN grow  to encompass our modern understanding of the way the universe actually  works, I'm giving the book 4 stars, because it freed me from wasting any  more time on this effort, and for that I am very grateful, and it made the  book well worth reading. Thank you, Bishop Spong. Yet, I have not in any  way lost my faith in God (God won't let me do that), I've just lost  interest in the dead end that Christianity has become. One of the childish  things that we must put aside is thinking that anything at all ever lives  forever, including the offspring of our great religious teachers, such as  the Church that belief in Jesus gave rise to. Bishop Spong's book is a  brilliant testament to this, and for that reason should be widely read. But  believing Christians beware: you won't find much hope for your cherished  beliefs in this book.	2000-01-24
US	51069975	R2KZOJJYVC0ZLG	0813526523	827958838	Prometheus Bedeviled: Science and the Contradictions of Contemporary Culture	Books	4	22	28	N	Y	Brilliant, but for one annoying flaw	I really have mixed feelings about this book. It is a joy to read for its writing style alone. But quite aside from the brilliant writing (that just makes it so you can't put it down), it is crammed with deadly accurate  characterizations of contemporary culture's ambivalence towards science and  the sorry prospects of the majority of educated non-scientists ever really  coming to grips with its findings (because the subject matter has become so  difficult). Nevertheless, the general, educated populace coming to grips  with the PROBLEMS Levitt so lucidly explicates could go a long way towards  solving those very problems. There is just one minor flaw in this book that  stands in the way of letting this happen, a flaw that will loom  all-important in the minds of the majority of readers (if we pick the  readers at random from the educated public). Levitt argues, correctly, that  science is the most, perhaps even the only, reliable method of obtaining  accurate knowledge of the way things really are in the world we live in,  and that therefore science ought (somehow) to be given a privileged  &quot;say&quot; when it comes to determining public policies that depend on  understanding the true nature of this world. So far, so good. The problem  is that Levitt argues that if you really understand what science is saying  about the world, you HAVE to be an atheist. Right there, he is going to  lose 90% of the audience that SHOULD be reading this book and taking it to  heart. In my view, these claims of atheism are entirely gratuitous, and the  book could have had far more ethical appeal if these religious beliefs of  his would have been kept to himself. And make no mistake about it: his  atheism IS based on religious belief, no matter how much he denies it. It  is based on a particular understanding of the nature of God as presented to  him by the majority of Christians. As a counterexample, I am not an atheist  (nor a Christian, for that matter), yet I accept the findings of science  just as uncompromisingly as Levitt does. It's just that I have a concept of  God that Levitt apparently has never contemplated and that is independent  of the actual workings of the natural world. Because of that, I was able to  take his atheism in stride, and see the importance of what he was otherwise  saying, without being put off. Most Christians, I'm afraid, would dismiss  him before they got 1/3 the way through the book, and for no really good  reason. It's a pity.of science  just as uncompromisingly as Levitt does. It's just that I have a concept of  God that Levitt apparently has never contemplated and that is independent  of the actual workings of the natural world. Because of that, I was able to  take his atheism in stride, and see the importance of what he was otherwise  saying, without being put off. Most Christians, I'm afraid, would dismiss  him before they got 1/3 the way through the book, and for no really good  reason. It's a pity.	2000-01-18
US	51069975	R3BF4VSF6KS1ZH	0817453989	387943617	Perfect Exposure: A Practical Guide for All Photographers	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Perfect for my needs	This is exactly the kind of photo book I've been looking for: lots of technical information on film characteristics, theory of density, printing, how lighting and filters affect exposure, technical details on the various  kinds of light meters and what they're good for, etc., etc., etc. All too  many photo books of this form factor are pablum. This book really gets into  the guts of film exposure and all of the factors that affect it. If you  want to go beyond the basics in understanding how film is exposed and such  things as the difference in characteristics between slide and negative  film, this is a great book.	2000-01-16
US	51069975	R1H6YZWK0IUAYO	0874779758	115754087	Entering Space	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	Human flesh will not do the &quot;terraforming&quot;	After writing my previous review, I had some further thoughts on this book, which causes me to downgrade my rating by a point. First, the book seems curiously inconsistent. For most of the book, he seems to have a  cowboy attitude about space travel, with about the same ethical  sensibilities as the Spanish conquistadors: land on the planet and  \\"terraform\\" it without any thought to the \\"rights\\" of the life forms that  might already be there. We, as human beings, are naturally conquerors and  will just be following our nature to do so (just as we are currently in the  process of devastating our own planet, Earth, by the way). Only towards the  end of the book does he discuss one of the reasons why we see no scientific  evidence of extraterrestrials visiting planet Earth: they may regard us as  a \\"designated wilderness area,\\" with the right to determine our own destiny  and future evolution. In other words, as ancient and wise beings, they  probably have adopted a policy of non-interference with primitive life  forms (which we would be, relative to them). In fact, NASA itself already  has established policies of non-interference, in its plans for searching  for life on Mars, and so Zubrin's swashbuckling mentality seems curiously  outdated for such a far-reaching book. On the other hand, Zubrin completely  overlooks one aspect of our own growing technology that might provide an  answer as to why we haven't seen any evidence of extraterrestrials. He  implicitly assumes that we MUST have humans do the advanced exploration,  because robotic probes aren't intelligent enough. Well, realistically, we  probably won't plant anything close to a human intelligence on Mars for  another fifty years (in spite of his arguments that we could do it in ten).  But by then, robotics will have advanced to the point where artificial  intelligence is at least equal to human intelligence. Our progress in space  exploration may be uncertain, but progress in robotics isn't. We've been  unsuccessful so far because of the limited computational power available,  but in fifty years it will be a million times greater than it is now, and  we will surely have developed robots that will be far more capable than we  are to explore extraterrestrial surfaces. They will be at least as smart as  we are, and far more \\"environmentally safe\\" and far more physically capable  than we. MACHINES are what will inherit the universe, not flimsy human  flesh. The extraterrestrials haven't revealed themselves to us because they  know how devastatingly demoralizing it would be to reveal to us that they  are made of metal and silicon that has far surpassed anything that could  ever evolve organically.  Think about THAT for a while.cessful so far because of the limited computational power available,  but in fifty years it will be a million times greater than it is now, and  we will surely have developed robots that will be far more capable than we  are to explore extraterrestrial surfaces. They will be at least as smart as  we are, and far more \\"environmentally safe\\" and far more physically capable  than we. MACHINES are what will inherit the universe, not flimsy human  flesh. The extraterrestrials haven't revealed themselves to us because they  know how devastatingly demoralizing it would be to reveal to us that they  are made of metal and silicon that has far surpassed anything that could  ever evolve organically.  Think about THAT for a while.	2000-01-12
US	51069975	RE5D7D7JA9P8E	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	2	25	57	N	Y	Ultimately fails its intended Christian audience	I think a proper assessment of this book has to start with an understanding of the audience for which this book was written. It was written for believing Christians who think that the theory of evolution  undermines their religious beliefs, and so therefore must be false, no  matter what the scientific community says, or what evidence it presents.  Since the theory contradicts Biblical teaching (so they believe), there  must be something wrong with scientific reasoning, regardless of how  compelling it might seem to observers not burdened with Biblical  literalism. This is basically what Kenneth R. Miller, a professor of  biology at one of the best schools in the country, Brown University, is up  against in his book. He has a profound understanding and full acceptance of  the biological theory of evolution, yet he has an entirely conventional  Christian faith, which he believes is not undermined by neo-Darwinism. What  we have here is a man who fully accepts the contingency of history (natural  as well as human), yet accepts his Christian faith on the basis that God  simply \\"surpasses our ordinary understanding of chance and causality [p.  236].\\" This argument, addressed to conventional Christians, of course  hinges on a certain conception of God, a conception that the atheistic  evolutionist can't possibly accept, because everything the atheist  understands about the nature of the universe flies in the face of that  conception. So this book is not for them. My mistake was thinking that  there might be something in here for me. For the first half of this book, I  thought that Miller was on a track to a more mature conception of God, more  in tune with a classical, mystical vision of the universe, God as the  living ground of being, \\"the fire in the equations,\\" as Stephen Hawkings  has put it. This would be a living God, the life behind all life, but not a  God that is conscious of material contingency, or who has any control over  it, other than through His spiritual effect on His worshippers. This would  be a God who answers prayers strictly through spiritual redemption, but not  with material consequences, other than those caused by the resulting  actions of the person doing the praying, when as a result of the prayer the  person is spiritually moved to action because of his contact with God at a  spiritual level (which is the only way we CAN have contact with God).  Unfortunately, Miller simply accepts an essentially Western conception of  God as a wholly other being who \\"somehow,\\" in spite of the physical  contingency of history and all physical events, can still throw adversity  our way as \\"a challenge\\" for us to improve ourselves. He simply makes  assertions that apparently fly in the face of the common sense that  evolution seems to give us, without giving us any reason for believing  them, other than that they are traditional Christian beliefs. He seems to  feel that God can let the detailed workings of his universe develop on  their own, while still providing it with an overall purposeful development,  both at the biological level and at the human, historical level. It's as if  God can step into the world to work his miracles anytime he wants, but  mostly refrains from doing so, to allow us our freedom. I've always had  trouble with this conception of God, and, ironically, so do a lot of  fundamentalists. Either God is in complete control of the details, or he  isn't needed at all. This is why deism has never made sense to me. This  concept of God may be consistent with the mainstream Christian concept of  God, but it doesn't seem informed by the modern theory of evolution. It's  as if the second half of Miller's book completely ignores the first half.  The book is thus a gigantic non sequitur, and it is not going to be  satisfying for its intended Christian audience, if the latter is at all  thoughtful about the matter. To me, the answer is obvious, but it's not  going to satisfy many Christians: with his entire being, God is behind the  animation of every last detail unfolding in the universe, but \\"the left  hand knows not what the right hand does,\\" and that is the underlying  dynamic behind not only evolution, but the activity of every particle  and/or organism in the universe. Where Miller is mystified why God would  bother creating civilization upon civilization that lived and died without  an inkling of Christ (but, inexplicably, claims he's not bothered by his  mystification), this evolutionary concept of God has no problem whatsoever  explaining such developments. Given the \\"global village\\" that the world has  become, you'd think that it would be obvious to a person of Miller's  learning that the forms and attitudes of all historical religions are  contingent on their own particular histories, and that Miller would feel  compelled to transcend traditional Christian dogmas and attitudes about the  nature of God, and that he would allow his own understanding of evolution  to inform his conception of God. Just because the only reliable method of  discovering how the universe really works, science, was originally a  product of the West (it currently transcends all cultures, no matter what  the post-modernists think), doesn't mean that Western monotheism is the  only, or even the best, path to an understanding of spiritual reality. This  book is great biology. It is dismal, even depressing, theology. It  mystifies me how a Christian believer could be encouraged by the last  couple chapters of this book, when the full enormity of the wholly-other  Christian God is laid out before us as a proper object of worship. I am  once again reminded of why I lost faith in this Christian God over 30 years  ago, in favor of a more mystical and internal vision.g, God is behind the  animation of every last detail unfolding in the universe, but \\"the left  hand knows not what the right hand does,\\" and that is the underlying  dynamic behind not only evolution, but the activity of every particle  and/or organism in the universe. Where Miller is mystified why God would  bother creating civilization upon civilization that lived and died without  an inkling of Christ (but, inexplicably, claims he's not bothered by his  mystification), this evolutionary concept of God has no problem whatsoever  explaining such developments. Given the \\"global village\\" that the world has  become, you'd think that it would be obvious to a person of Miller's  learning that the forms and attitudes of all historical religions are  contingent on their own particular histories, and that Miller would feel  compelled to transcend traditional Christian dogmas and attitudes about the  nature of God, and that he would allow his own understanding of evolution  to inform his conception of God. Just because the only reliable method of  discovering how the universe really works, science, was originally a  product of the West (it currently transcends all cultures, no matter what  the post-modernists think), doesn't mean that Western monotheism is the  only, or even the best, path to an understanding of spiritual reality. This  book is great biology. It is dismal, even depressing, theology. It  mystifies me how a Christian believer could be encouraged by the last  couple chapters of this book, when the full enormity of the wholly-other  Christian God is laid out before us as a proper object of worship. I am  once again reminded of why I lost faith in this Christian God over 30 years  ago, in favor of a more mystical and internal vision.	2000-01-12
US	51069975	R35YCG8WKPHXKD	0874779758	115754087	Entering Space	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A vitally important book for the future of mankind	This is one of the most important books ever written on the need and possibility of, well, creating a space-faring civilization. I agree that it should be read by every employee of NASA and every politician and would-be  politician. I was a little put-off by what might be interpreted as a lack  of respect for biodiversity on our own planet (and perhaps others), but  maybe I was reading into what he was saying a little too much. As for the  reviewer who thinks there is a lot of scientific evidence for life being  rare in the universe, I suggest he read &quot;Planetary Dreams : The Quest  to Discover Life Beyond Earth&quot;, as well as my review of that book.  There is no such evidence. It is pure speculation, since we simply don't  know how life originated. All we have are vague guesses at this point. The  best evidence that this is a common occurrence is the fact that life arose  almost as soon as it possibly could on planet Earth (3.8 billion years ago:  0.2 billion years after the main planetary bombardment ended), and we now  know that planetary systems are a common feature of the universe.	2000-01-07
US	51069975	RSI1R674SHIUO	0471179361	611589205	Planetary Dreams: The Quest to Discover Life Beyond Earth	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	Reliable science on the probability of life evolving	This is the best book I've read on the &quot;problem&quot; of the evolution of life and its probability throughout the universe. He reviews all of the major theories and gives up-to-date critiques. I concluded that  at bottom the only reason for not believing that life is common in the  universe is the argument of incredulity: &quot;I can't imagine how life  could have evolved, so therefore it must either be exceedingly rare or  miraculous.&quot; In fact, there's no reason for believing that there is  anything especially unusual about our solar system or our planet Earth, so,  following the Copernican Principle, life is probably everywhere.	2000-01-07
US	51069975	R2FAAC7RUNIHIJ	0151003769	357381714	Probability 1	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Tell me something I didn't already know	This was one of the most profoundly disappointing books I've ever read. The conclusion in the last chapter is practically tautological, and I was left scratching my head why the book ever got published. A total and  complete waste of time.	2000-01-07
US	51069975	RKGAEZQKANG1A	0874805988	973581692	Water, Earth, and Sky: The Colorado River Basin	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A drop-dead gorgeous book	This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever seen. I wish they would have given details on the printing process for this book. I've never seen such vibrant, sharp, photographs in a book. They look almost as good as  professionally done prints on photographic paper. As for the artistic merit  of the photographs themselves, they are wonderful, something to get lost  in.	1999-12-15
US	51069975	R1K9MJRBODW1IU	0300074530	10624648	Parrots: A Guide to Parrots of the World (Boswell's Correspondence;7;yale Ed.of)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Absolutely superb	This review is from the standpoint of a person who keeps parrots as companion birds. Just so you know where I'm coming from. This BOOK however was created primarily for the field identification of parrots in the wild. It illustrates in color paintings every species of parrot and most of the  subspecies, a la the Peterson guides. Then it has sections on Identification, voice, Distribution and Status, Ecology, Description, Sex/Age, Measurements, Geographical Variation (races), and References. This is a double-column book that uses 8 point type so there is a phenomenal amount of information within its almost 600 pages. I so fell in love with this book when I saw it that I couldn't resist paying full price even though I knew I'd probably get a substantial discount from Amazon.<br /> This book is about how parrots live in the wild. This is not a book about parrots in captivity in case you own companion parrots. But I've repeatedly found that if you have a knowledge of how your pets live in the wild, this can shed great insight on their behavior in the home, which is perhaps the most important reason I would recommend this book for those keeping parrots as companions.<br /> The paintings are scientifically accurate rather than works of art, although they are attractive enough. The printed quality of the color plates is very high for a book of this nature, but the pictures are small. Typical is the Leadbeater which is about 2&quot;. There are only 88 color plates covering 350 species and subspecies (500 illustrations in all), so that gives you an idea of how dense each page is. Typical for a guidebook however.<br /> A very interesting feature of this book is that it gives field conservationist estimates of the total world population of most species. For example, from this book I learned that the published figures in the popular press for Galahs are grossly inflated according to the estimates made by field conservationists. The actual estimated world population is 5,000,000, not 100,000,000 that I'd read elsewhere (Australian government reports?). And the huge shoals number about 1,000, not 100,000 that I'd also read elsewhere.<br /> As for Little Corellas, the world population is estimated to be about 1,000,000. The Long-billed Corella currently has a population of 250,000 and  increasing. Ducorps: 100,000 and stable. Umbrella world population: unknown but estimates range from 50,000 to 200,000. Moluccan: estimated at 8,000. Leadbeater: 20,000. Think twice before getting a Moluccan as a companion bird. Perhaps they should be kept in breeding programs for a while. (Can you tell I'm a cockatoo afictionado?)<br /> It needs to be emphasized that the population figures supplied ARE from field conservationists and so are probably very conservative, and will be in disagreement with government reports that might see a particular species as a pest (like Galahs and Little Corellas). The actual numbers are probably somewhere in between but undoubtedly much closer to the figures quoted than the ones we hear of from people who want us to think that nothing is wrong, or that THEY are being wronged (like the farmers in Australia).,000, not 100,000,000 that I'd read elsewhere (Australian government reports?). And the huge shoals number about 1,000, not 100,000 that I'd also read elsewhere. <br /> As for Little Corellas, the world population is estimated to be about 1,000,000. The Long-billed Corella currently has a population of 250,000 and  increasing. Ducorps: 100,000 and stable. Umbrella world population: unknown but estimates range from 50,000 to 200,000. Moluccan: estimated at 8,000. Leadbeater: 20,000. Think twice before getting a Moluccan as a companion bird. Perhaps they should be kept in breeding programs for a while. (Can you tell I'm a cockatoo afictionado?) <br /> It needs to be emphasized that the population figures supplied ARE from field conservationists and so are probably very conservative, and will be in disagreement with government reports that might see a particular species as a pest (like Galahs and Little Corellas). The actual numbers are probably somewhere in between but undoubtedly much closer to the figures quoted than the ones we hear of from people who want us to think that nothing is wrong, or that THEY are being wronged (like the farmers in Australia).	1998-04-02
US	51069975	R2N4FDH0POXXS	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	1	12	22	N	N	Bottom line: not a science book	The preponderance of high scores for this book is a sad commentary on the quality of science  education in this country. I'm giving it a 1  because I am so tired of this stupid debate and I don't want to do a single thing to encourage  anyone else to buy it.	1998-02-20
US	51069975	R2QWJNBMALYDYR	0201151421	133253374	Before The Beginning: Our Universe And Others (Helix Books)	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Somewhat misleading title, not for the afictionado	I found the title of this book somewhat misleading. It is only the very end of the book that gets into &quot;before the beginning,&quot; and most of the book is simply a preparation for this ending. Most of the book is simply a rehash of what is already readily available in a dozen other popular books on cosmology, although it does reference some of the latest discoveries, such as extrasolar planets. If you're really interested in what it might be like &quot;before the beginning,&quot; Guth's _The Inflationary Universe_ is far superior. I'm nudging this book above average (6) because the last few chapters do contain some fascinating material on the nature of the cosmological constants that provides food for thought.	1997-11-07
US	51069975	R309LNUQ4C1CL5	0060674296	67748143	Resurrection: Myth or Reality?	Books	4	12	21	N	N	Too difficult to be relevant	I am persuaded by much of what Bishop Spong argues in this book and I was genuinely moved by the penultimate chapter when he speculates on the purely spiritual experience that Peter must have had that formed the cornerstone of Christian faith and that later led to the New Testament mythological formulations of the empty tomb, angels, physical appearances, etc., that according to Spong collectively tried to point to that original experience. What bothers me about this book is that his argument is so demanding and dependent on technical scholarship that the actual truth behind Christianity that he attempts to uncover is, in this day and age, too inaccessible to inspire the masses of humanity. I mean, why should we have to master something as arcane as Midrash in order to get at the underlying truth of Christianity?<br /><br />Yet Spong's argument remains strong. What this tells me is that the nature of God is such that He is unable to provide us with a definitive revelation that will be valid for all times and places. This is not news to students of general religious studies, but it will be a hard pill to swallow for Christians. All of this &quot;searching for the historical Jesus&quot; stuff that Spong is deeply committed to is probably necessary, but not to salvage Christianity or to inject it with new life. It is necessary to force this issue, that Christianity has had its day, and our religious conscience needs to come up with new conceptions of God that are more in tune with what we know about the nature of history and the nature of the universe. It boggles the mind how tenacious writers like Spong are in holding on to something that has so obviously faded into obsolescence.	1997-08-12
US	51069975	R3QEGVZ3JJ6PN5	0465045146	566782042	After God: The Future Of Religion (Masterminds Series)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Was looking for insights, was disappointed	In reaction to the rise of science, the rise of the &quot;global village,&quot; and the rise of religious fundamentalism, so many books are struggling over the disintegration of traditional religions and the search for substitutes. This is yet another attempt. In this case, Cupitt wants to reduce all human experience to words and the deification of words, and in doing so is yet another postmodern author who completely misunderstands that the fundamental origin of religion is pre-verbal, in the primordial and perennial experience of mystical union with Absolute Reality, or what we in the West like to call &quot;God.&quot; Unless an author writing about the demise of traditional religion at least understands that, then any remedies they are likely to devise are going to be, in a quite literal sense, groundless. The closest Cupitt comes to understanding this is his (almost cavalier) proposal that we look into the cosmic &quot;Void&quot; to achieve a feeling of personal bliss. But his understanding of this state is insipid, not at all compelling, and obviously not based on personal experience. His obsession with reducing everything in human consciousness to verbal language automatically disqualifies him from any true understanding of the source of human religions, and hence from providing us with any insight into the real future of ecumenical religious development. The main value of this book is Cupitt's analysis of the poverty of traditional religious beliefs in coming to grips with the problems introduced by scientific knowledge and global communication in the modern world. But he provides no compelling solutions	1997-07-25
US	51069975	RUWW8A1JJGQZE	0201149427	436687376	The Inflationary Universe: The Quest For A New Theory Of Cosmic Origins	Books	5	62	63	N	N	The best and deepest popular book on cosmology available	Wow! What a great book. This is the clearest and deepest book on cosmology for the layman that I have ever read, and I've read a lot of them. I don't know whether previous books I've read just didn't explain it right or what, but before I reading this book, I was always disgruntled by inflationary theories of the universe, thinking<br />for some reason that they were ad hoc, devised out of the blue to explain the flatness problem. This is the first book on the subject that I've ever read that showed me that inflationary theories are<br />actually derived from more basic theories, and that they just HAPPEN to explain several different problems associated with the classical big bang theory. I was also very intrigued by Guth's explanation of how there is probably a fractal pattern of universes similar to our own that emerges out of the decay of the false vacuum. This is also the first time I've understood that the &quot;multi-universe&quot; proposals really ARE based on scientific theories, and weren't simply pulled out of thin air. A wonderful book that make a host of other books on cosmology look amateurish by comparison	1997-07-01
US	51069975	R2P4H125WBYRKY	019510837X	930842215	The Life of the Cosmos	Books	4	13	18	N	N	The universe as the product of natural selection	I must not understand black holes. One of Smolin's most interesting conjectures in this book is that the Big Bang of our universe is just the rebound from the collapse of a black hole within some larger universe, and that within all black holes in our universe, the rebounds from the collapse of those black holes are themselves Big Bangs forming new universes in their own right. Thus we have universes within universes within universes, and the universe of universes always was and always will be, something like the Christian God.<br /><br />That in itself isn't such an original idea. After all, the dopers in the movie, Animal House, imagined a universe in the atoms of their fingernails, and universes within the...well, you get the idea. Smolin's innovation is to imagine that as the black hole collapses towards the Singularity, when the size of the collapsing matter reaches Planck dimensions (ten to the minus thirty-third centimeters), currently unknown quantum effects take over and the singularity never actually gets a chance to form. Instead, all the matter rebounds in a Big Bang forming another universe as explained above, but with this little wrinkle: the basic constants of nature (the masses of the elementary particles and the strengths of the basic forces) change ever so slightly. In this way, Smolin imagines a form of &quot;natural selection&quot; for the basic constants, in which universes that produce the maximum number of black holes are selected for (since they produce the greatest number of &quot;offspring&quot;). Hence the laws of nature evolve towards a universe like ours, which produces a lot of black holes. As a corollary, Smolin shows that when the basic constants are adjusted to maximize the number of black holes, the universes so produced contain the necessary complexity to produce biological life as a natural by-product. So we're not so special: we &quot;belong&quot; here due to the particular values of the fundamental constants chosen by a process of natural selection.<br /><br />Smolin was led to propose his theory of the evolution of the basic constants of nature because of the failure of physics (so far) to come up with a Grand Theory of Everything that predicts from basic principles the exact values of the basic constants. He spends some time analyzing the failure of string theory to do this, for example. Thus, Smolin's great innovation is to view the basic constants of nature as the result of statistical processes rather than through some supreme cosmic design.<br /><br />Smolin spends a lot of time answering objections to his theory, principally trying to show that if you change any of the basic constants of nature ever so slightly from what we observe in our universe, fewer black holes would be formed. This assumes that this evolution of the natural laws has been going on for unimaginable ages and our universe is highly evolved, highly refined, and highly tuned, as a tiger or a human being presumably is on the planet Earth after billions of years of biological evolution.<br /><br />Unfortunately Smolin never addresses the objections to his theory that most bothered ME. This must be because I have misunderstood all the popular books I've read on black holes (I'm not a physicist, just a dilettante), and maybe readers of this review can straighten me out. It's my understanding that because of time dilation caused by intense gravitational fields, from the standpoint outside of a black hole, the singularity will never actually form (except after an infinite &quot;number&quot; of years), and because of Hawking radiation, the black hole will evaporate completely before the matter within the black hole actually rebounds to form a new universe.<br /><br />Okay. So let's say I misunderstand that point about how black holes work and the singularity actually does form within the timeframe of our universe (would someone please explain this to me). Smolin's conjecture is that the basic constants of nature only change SLIGHTLY at the rebound. This means that protons and neutrons still have essentially the same mass as they did before the rebound, that the force of gravity has only changed slightly, etc. Well, we know from current Big Bang theory that the universe goes through an inflationary period in which the total mass of the universe increased by a factor of ten to the hundredth power. So how come when we observe a black hole from outside we don't see its mass increasing by a like amount? Presumably if this actually happened all of the galaxies near the black hole would be gradually sucked into it. So where is my thinking going wrong here? These objections are so obvious to me that my understanding of black holes must be fundamentally incorrect. Otherwise Smolin and all the other physicists that have thrown up objections to his theories would have dealt with these problemsebound. This means that protons and neutrons still have essentially the same mass as they did before the rebound, that the force of gravity has only changed slightly, etc. Well, we know from current Big Bang theory that the universe goes through an inflationary period in which the total mass of the universe increased by a factor of ten to the hundredth power. So how come when we observe a black hole from outside we don't see its mass increasing by a like amount? Presumably if this actually happened all of the galaxies near the black hole would be gradually sucked into it. So where is my thinking going wrong here? These objections are so obvious to me that my understanding of black holes must be fundamentally incorrect. Otherwise Smolin and all the other physicists that have thrown up objections to his theories would have dealt with these problems	1997-05-12
US	51069975	R3VCWQ953YCQDL	006066861X	787251755	Putting Away Childish Things	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Liberals Christians will enjoy it, the rest will burn it	This book is a very sarcastic exposure of the tragically misguided nature of the key Christian myths (the divinity of Christ, the virgin birth, Jewish culpability for the death of Jesus, the empty tomb, Pentecost, Hell, etc.). Almost all of the author's substantive conclusions can be gleaned from other recent works in the field of modern historical and biblical scholarship. But Uta Ranke-Heinemann presents us with a unique perspective. She was &quot;the first woman in the world to hold a chair of Catholic theology (1970) and the first to lose it because she questioned the virgin birth (1987)&quot; (from the back cover). Her resentment over this action taken against her can be seen on every page of her book, especially in the rancor she holds against Pope John Paul II, whom she obviously blames for her loss of position. Her tone makes for very entertaining reading by skeptics, but it will undoubtedly strongly alienate those readers in most need of books like this, namely mainstream Christians. Most of them will consign the book to the flames of hell before they finish chapter one.<br /><br />The cover of my edition of this book promises to explain &quot;how the myths behind the Church's key doctrines...distort Jesus' real message.&quot; So naturally I was eagerly looking forward to seeing what Jesus' real message actually was. But after stripping away the mythology, there does not seem to be much left. The best the author seems able to come up with are the revelations from the Sermon on the Mount. Probably 95% of this book is taken up with exposing the destructive consequences of the Christian myths and this is very good material, but only 5% of the book is spent revealing the actual words and deeds of Jesus. From reading other similar books however, this is no doubt more a consequence of the actual facts than in any fault with the book itself. Nevertheless, the objective reader should be able to obtain glimpses from this book into the truly revolutionary and wonderful messages that the historical Jesus actually did proclaim. The reader will also come away with a sense of the awesome tragedy that the history of Christianity actually is, which amounts to a monstrous betrayal of what the historical Jesus actually did and said. Unfortunately, because of Ranke-Heinemann's tone, all of this will be lost on the average Christian. For that person I would recommend the much more objective (and even more tragic) Christian Antisemitism by William Nicholls. If you look for this book in your local bookstore (instead of getting it through amazon.com), beware that most bookstores erroneously file this book under Judaism (a gross injustice to Jews actually) instead of Christianity, where it actually belongs. This is unfortunate, because most Christians would never think of perusing the Judaism section of their favorite bookstores (because of the very prejudices discussed in this book), and so they would never come across this truly extraordinary and profoundly moving book.<br /><br />So in conclusion, I would recommend Ranke-Heinemann's book if you are already skeptical about the Christian religion. It will only add fuel to your fire. However, watch yourself. You may actually come away with a profound appreciation of what the historical Jesus actually did and saidessages that the historical Jesus actually did proclaim. The reader will also come away with a sense of the awesome tragedy that the history of Christianity actually is, which amounts to a monstrous betrayal of what the historical Jesus actually did and said. Unfortunately, because of Ranke-Heinemann's tone, all of this will be lost on the average Christian. For that person I would recommend the much more objective (and even more tragic) Christian Antisemitism by William Nicholls. If you look for this book in your local bookstore (instead of getting it through amazon.com), beware that most bookstores erroneously file this book under Judaism (a gross injustice to Jews actually) instead of Christianity, where it actually belongs. This is unfortunate, because most Christians would never think of perusing the Judaism section of their favorite bookstores (because of the very prejudices discussed in this book), and so they would never come across this truly extraordinary and profoundly moving book. <br /> So in conclusion, I would recommend Ranke-Heinemann's book if you are already skeptical about the Christian religion. It will only add fuel to your fire. However, watch yourself. You may actually come away with a profound appreciation of what the historical Jesus actually did and said	1997-05-09
US	51069975	R10KI64HCZMP1J	0813804345	907190697	Did the Devil Make Darwin Do It?: Modern Perspectives on the Creation Evolution Controversy	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Devastating Critique of Creationism	End of story! Definitive arguments against Creationism by<br />scientists, Christian theologians, and lawmakers. If every<br />living Creationist read this book with an open mind, that<br />would be the end of Creationism. Unfortunately, because of<br />their psychological need for absolute answers, these people<br />are constitutionally unable to read anything objectively that<br />contradicts their so-called &quot;literal&quot; interpretation of the Bible,<br />so the rational among us will be stuck with them until they all<br />die out, which would be Darwinian evolution at its merciful<br />best	1997-04-04
US	51069975	R19UEED79Q211N	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Another plea for a &quot;God of the Gaps&quot;; ho hum...	The main problem with this book is that it purports to be a book about science and it isn't. In fact, it's just the opposite. Behe claims to have identified a level of biological complexity that in principle cannot be explained by natural laws and then heaves a sigh of relief: &quot;Thank God! My belief in God is still justified!&quot; Whether or not science can currently explain his &quot;irreducible complexities,&quot; resting his faith in God on one more gap in the scientific understanding of the universe is the kiss of death for religious faith. Hasn't the last 400 years taught us this? God's Creation is rich enough so that no matter how advanced our sciences become we will always be discovering new gaps in our understanding, but that doesn't mean we should throw up our hands in scientific despair and give up! The reason so many reviewers on this WEB page are rubbing their hands in glee over this book is because they have an inadequate and outmoded image of God in their minds. Evolution and belief in God are not antithetical and it is sheer ignorance to believe that they are. I suggest all readers who believe that the theory of evolution is inherently &quot;materialistic&quot; (whatever that means) read Ian Barbour's book &quot;Religion in an Age of Science.&quot; But be warned. This isn't pabulum. It will take a serious effort to digest it. But I suggest that minds that are incapable of digesting material on this level will not be &quot;fit for survival&quot; into the 21st century	1997-03-09
US	51069975	R2YUUZB296TOK4	0060603836	626089350	Religion in an Age of Science (Gifford Lectures 1989-1991, Vol 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Help for the Christian sympathetic to science	This book explores the validity of Christianity in the face of modern science. It fully accepts the findings of modern physics, astronomy, and evolutionary science, and shows how a proper understanding of the Bible is not only not threatened by modern science but is illuminated by it. It should be required reading for the educated Christian who feels that Darwinism is an affront to his or her religion and incompatible with belief in the Christian God of Creation and Redemption. Barbour explores all of the principal modern lines of theological thinking and how they measure up to the findings of modern science. He finds Alfred North Whitehead's Process Philosophy most congenial both to the central Christian message and to the findings of modern science. Barbour finds that in order for this all to work, the prevailing Christian view of God as king and ruler---omnipotent and omniscient---must be modified. Barbour's God is more like a loving parent that guides its children (which includes all created entities, not just human beings) by exposing the Spirit to them and thereby influencing them with its goodness and beauty. Barbour's God does not and cannot coerce, and is incapable of miraculous intervention in the world in the sense of countervening natural law. No strong distinction is made between the human and the non-human world and all of nature is seen as a glorification of God, consistent with modern evolution and the biblical view, as Barbour shows	1997-03-09
US	51069975	R1PQ7IIEYT4WC9	0060603836	626089350	Religion in an Age of Science (Gifford Lectures 1989-1991, Vol 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interpreting Christianity in the Light of Modern Science	This book explores the validity of Christianity in the light of modern science. It fully accepts the findings of modern physics, astronomy, and evolutionary science, and shows how a proper understanding of the Bible is not only not threatened by modern science but is illuminated by it. It should be required reading for the educated Christian who feels that Darwinism is an affront to their religion and incompatible with belief in the Christian God of Creation and Redemption. Barbour explores all of the principal modern lines of theological thinking and how they measure up to the findings of modern science. He finds Alfred North Whitehead's Process Philosophy most congenial both to the central Christian message and to the findings of modern science. Barbour finds that in order for this all to work, the traditional Christian view of God as king and ruler---omnipotent and omniscient---must be modified. Barbour's God is more like a loving parent who guides his or her children (which includes all created entities, not just human beings) by exposing Himself (the masculine pronoun is used advisedly) to them and thereby influencing them with His goodness and beauty. Barbour's God does not and cannot coerce, and is incapable of miraculous intervention in the world in the sense of countervening natural law. Barbour shows how this concept of the Divine also solves the problem of evil, absolving God of all responsibility for it. No strong distinction is made between the human and the nonhuman world and all of nature is seen as a glorification of God, consistent with modern evolution and the biblical view, as he shows. In this way Barbour also recognizes the sinfulness of humanity's disregard for the environment	1997-03-07
US	51069975	R29QVLV892HTNO	0801043840	522840876	The Collapse of Evolution	Books	1	4	15	N	N	Only mathematical theorems can be proven.	Anyone who claims that evolutions claim they have &quot;proof&quot; for Darwinism obviously doesn't understand the nature of science and shouldn't be writing about it. The 120,000 copies sold must have all been to Creationists and so this is no testimony as the value of this book	1997-03-07
US	51069975	RZW6PC4M87HTI	0684827549	667246406	DARWIN'S BLACK BOX: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Another book resting on faith in a God of the Gaps	The main problem with this book is that it purports to be about science when it isn't. In fact, it's just the opposite. Behe claims to have identified a level of biological complexity that in principle cannot be explained by natural laws and then heaves a sigh of relief: &quot;Thank God! I can still believe in God!&quot; Whether or not science can currently explain his &quot;irreducible complexities,&quot; resting his faith in God on one more gap in the scientific record is the kiss of death for religious faith, as has been demonstrated countless times in the last 400 years. What would have made his book a significant work of science would have been if, once demonstrating his remarkable bio-molecular mechanisms which seem to defy explanation, he'd come up with a scientifically testable theory that could account for their formation in accordance with natural laws. Instead he throws his hands up in scientific despair and says, &quot;God must have done it.&quot; How much more courageous is Christian de Duve, whose Vital Dust (1995) at least tries to provide scientific explanations of the origin life at the bio-molecular level. Books like this would never even get written if the authors had an adequate conception of God. See my review of Ian Barbour's Religion in an Age of Science for an invitation to read a book that explains how you can simultaneously be a Christian and fully accept the facts of modern evolution	1997-03-07
US	51069975	R2SEG995XT8CI2	0316101389	777035519	Bartlett's Roget's Thesaurus	Books	5	97	100	N	N	The best currently available thesaurus	I've used a lot of thesauruses over the years, including Roget's International Thesaurus intensively through several editions, and the new Bartlett's eclipses them all. The latest Roget's International Thesaurus is in some respects inferior to previous editions, as I was no longer finding the exact word I was looking for. I have an extremely high success rate with this new Bartlett version. It's fun just to browse around in it. Many quotations	1997-03-05
