US	51062631	R6V8OLSKM18VZ	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	4	105	124	N	N	A classic, yes-- it's but one that's flawed and aging	Joseph Campbell's _The Hero with the Thousand Faces_ is one of the most important works ever written in the history of the study of \\"myth\\".  Penned a half-century ago, it brought a (largely Jungian) psychoanalytical perspective to the study of mythology-- and of literature and through it, argued that asame basic narrative pattern could be found all myths-- and even folktales and literary texts.  Campbell termed this pattern the 'monomyth' and argued that it was essentially the basic narrative form that informed all myth-making and story-telling,<BR>of all kinds, among all cultures.<br />Campbell recognizes, of course, that this basic pattern-- this narrative 'archetype' (to borrow a good Jungian word) varies somewhat in different stories.  But ultimately, he argues, it's based on one basic kind of story.  Campbell takes the time to outline what he sees as being the basic structural components of this story-- the 'stages of the hero', which include the 'call to adventure', the various kinds of adventures that happen on the hero's quest, and the return home.  Campbell spends a great deal of time talking about each of these, as well as their various substages-- in particularly psycoanalytical terms.  One of the likely encounters in the monomyth, fr example, is the 'encounter with the temptress' or the encounter with the benevolent goddess, who comes to represent the mother.  For each of these stages, he provides ample quotations and summaries of various myths to show that this isn't just some crazy theory-- you actually can see it operating in the stories of legend, folktale, myth, and even literature.<br />For those sympathetic to a psychoanalytical reading of myths, this book is highly compelling.  It also seems to be compatiable with a wide range of other 20th century ideas on the nature of myth and literature, with connections to Northrop Frye's  theory of archetypes (in _An Anatomy of Criticism), to the work of structural folkorists (like Vladimir Propp), and of course to the the work of Freud, Jung, and those who sought to apply their ideas to the study of story (especially Otto Rank's _The Birth of the Hero_).  <br />While I am generally sympathetic to this kind of approach, I nonetheless feel that this classic text, important and full of insight as it is, strikes me as a bit flawed.  The biggest problem I have is the fact that it just ties everything up a bit too neatly, a bit too certainly, a bit too conveniently.  Campbell always chooses mythic stories that support his particular point-- or at least he interprets them in ways that seem to.  Yet, there are plenty of stories out there that would seem to go against a particular point-- and many of the ones he cites could well be interpreted quite differently.  Moreover, the fact the remains that, while there may be fundamental similarities among mythic narratives, there are still differences.  By emphasizing the existence of the monomyth and downplaying the relevance of those differenes, Campbell seems to me to be stripping individual myths (and distinctive mythologies produced by different cultures) of their unique character and cultural relevance simply in order to fit them into his (reductionist?) theoretical framework.<br />Readers should also be aware that the study of mythology has moved in many new directions since this book was first published and that, in many ways, it isgetting increasingly dated.  The structuralist approach to myth pioneered by Levi-Strauss and the more semiotic understandings advanced by Barthes (and others) offer compelling interpretations of what myths are and how they work... ones that have nothing to do with psychoanalysis. That's not to say that it's unimportant, irrelevant, outdated, or any of that.  Quite the contrary, this book remains a classic.  Still, it's hardly the be-all and end-all of myth-scholarship these days, and I would encourage readers who like this to *also* explore other theories and interpretations of myth than Cambell's.	2002-09-26
US	51062631	RKVGCDWFD70OU	0816634912	63432939	History on the Edge: Excalibur and the Borders of Britain, 1100-1300	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Make sure you know what you're buying...	If you're an 'armchair' medievalist, a fan of the Arthurian legends, or an SCA-enthusiast  looking for nice easy-to-read books on King Arthur to enrich your amateur enthusiasm for the Middle Ages, stop right there-- Michelle Warren's _History on the Edge)_ is *not* for you.  <br />This book is directed, rather narrowly, at postmodern medievalist scholars, and is filled with  highly theoretical, jargon-laden  literary scholarship of the sort that makes even seasoned grad students wince.    Unless you're already familiar with  the critical apparatus of that  subfield of literary theory known as &quot;post-colonial studies&quot;, you'll be hopelessly lost.  Here's a typical example of the abstract and jargon-laden character of the prose: &quot;The border, as a figure of paradox, cuts across multiple concepts, joining them indelibly as it separates them irretrievably.  Historiography represents the simultaneity of these paradoxes in time.  If... the management of paradox constitutes historical  consciousness per se in the Middle Ages, border historiography represents a hyperconsciousness that textualizes modes of possession&quot; (p. 16).   <br />So, what does Warren actually have to say behind all of this academic cant?  What is this book actually about?  The answer is relatively simple--  essentially it's about borders.  Specifically, it's about British/English borders in the Middle Ages and how medieval history-writing about King Arthur was a discursive locus for the deployment of complex, contradictory, and often ambivalent notions about British history, identity, ethnicity,  geography, nationhood, the legitimacy of military conquest, and a host of other issues that can be and are symbolized by concept of 'the border'.<br />The medieval texts Warren examines are those that purport to be historiography-- like Geoffroy of Monmouth's _History of the Kings of Britain_ (and variant forms thereof), Wace's _The Roman de Brut_, or more literary works which make a consciouseffort to place Arthur within a historical context (like the French Vulgate Cycle).  More purely literary representations of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table-- such as the lais of Marie de France, the romances of Chretien de Troyes, the tale of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, etc. are not discussed at all (presumably due to the absence of historographical intent .)<br />Warren's analysis of these texts essentially consists of a combination of close reading and a kind of translation of the events described in them into the language of post-colonial lit-crit.  At times, this takes on the character of  allegory, with Warren paraphrasing the story and then imposing  a border-theory jargon of the symbolic content of each detail.  After noting that the duel between Arthur and Frollo takes place on an island in the Seine, for instance, she remarks, &quot;Since Geoffrey sites this resolution in an insular space, it serves as an allegory of the colonization and defense of Britain itself&quot;.  A possible reading, perhaps, but it still seems a bit forced, as do other examples.  At some times, Warren's jargonification of narrative events becomes unintentionally humorous, such as when she observes (about the same duel) that it is ends  when Arthur's sword  &quot;inscribes an indelible boundary between the two sides of Frollo's head&quot;. <br />Oh yes, speaking of Arthur's sword... it should be noted that the subtitle of this book is 'Excalibur and the Borders of Britain'.  She also observes, in the introductory chapter, that swords are an especially crucial symbol of the 'border issues' she discusses because &quot;coercive boundary formation engenders ambivalence [and] Swords purvey this ambivalence, as their symbolic effects belie the certitude of their original edges [and] formally incarnate the boundary paradox: their edges divide trenchantly while forming the blade's indivisble unity.  Swords' intimate relations with human bodies further enhance their liminal ontology.&quot;  I certainly won't argue with that, but when it comes to performing her actual analysis, the fact is that Warren really doesn't spend all that much time talking about Excalibur or swords generally-- it is merely one detail among many that she discusses in each case.<br />Ultimately, Warren's argument boils down to the following idea:  These various medieval texts embody the same kinds of 'border writing' issues that contemporary post-colonial theory talks about and this suggests that medieval historiography of Arthur (particularly in the period immediately following the Norman Conquest) was embroiled with a variety of different attitudes towards the island's unity, political geography, and the merits of conquest and domination generally.  So, there you have it.  On the one hand, that's a fairly interesting and original point.  On the other hand, it begs many other questions-- such as whether or not Arthur is unique in that way, or whether the same can be said of *all* historiography in that period?  More intriguingly, one wonders how it might be applies to the more purely poetic material that's ignored-- after all, Arthur was not primarily a historiographical figure during this era, but a literary one.  More interestingly, one might want to know whether, how and why, this sort of 'border writing'  changed later on once the Crusades began, or during the 100 years war-- subjects that aren't really discussed here.<br />In sum, Warren has made a clever application of postmodern colonial theory to unlikely medieval sources and raised some inttriguing questions.  But I still don't feel like that's enough to justify the extreme difficulty of the book's language, its failure to explain why some other things weren't discussed,  and the fact that much of it really does seem to be just the translation of narrative events into contemporary jargon.  So, I can only give this 2 stars, in spite of the fact that it is an intriguing piece of scholarship.	2002-08-19
US	51062631	R4UHODRDD9Q2U	0822307677	919935259	Five Faces of Modernity: Modernism, Avant-garde, Decadence, Kitsch, Postmodernism	Books	4	54	55	N	N	Excellent history of modern(ist) aesthetics	Matei Calinescu's _The Five Faces of Modernity_ is an impressive intellectual history of  five concepts central to aesthetics (i.e. the theory and philosophy of art) in the past two centuries-- the concepts of 'modernism', 'the avant-garde', 'decadence', 'kitsch', and 'postmodernism'.  After an introductory discussion on the concept of 'modernity' itself, each of these concepts, or 'faces of modernity'  is discussed in detail.  This discussion generally includes an account of the word's origins and changes in its usage, close readings of important  texts that used these concepts in exemplary or revolutionary ways, and a critical analysis of the assumptions that underly the term's application to aesthetics. Throughout, Calinescu ranges quite broadly in his scope, drawing upon texts from throughout Europe and the Americas (both North and South).<br />Calinescu's account is far too rich and complex to summarize here, but  on the whole, the history of aesthetic thought he provides is based on solid research, compelling analysis, and insightful observation.  In the process, he makes some astute, and rather surprising observations about how these aesthetic terms were initially used to describe politics or social thought, and only came to be applied to aesthetics later (this is especially true with 'avant-garde')-- yet, their aesthetic application is fundamentally shaped by their earlier social-political associations.<br />Although this book is quite solid, I do feel that it has some shortcomings that can't be ignored.  First and foremost among these is that Calinescu's bizarre characterization of Romanticism.  The Romantics, he rightly noted, were crucial in the development of modern aesthetics-- and in the notions of modernism, the avant-garde, and decadence in particular.  However, his account of Romanticism is one that I simply do not recognize--  basically reducing it (somewhat inaccurately, I would add) to &quot;the relativization of beauty&quot; and the abandonmentof the notion of eternal, transcendent truths or ideals.  Part of the problem here is that Calinescu limits his discussion of Romanticism to France, focussing on Chateaubriand, Stendahl, and Hugo.  If he had discussed the major German Romantic thinkers or the British Romantic poets, this account of Romanticism (and the role he assigns to it in developing a concept of 'modernity') simply could not stand.  <br />The second main shortcoming of the book is that it focuses overwhelmingly on literary art.  Painting and other forms of art are discussed a little bit in some of the chapters (particularly in the one on kitsch), but for the most part,  Calinescu's book focuses on prose and poetry-- not on the visual arts (or still less on music).  I think his account of some of these concepts (particularly 'modernism' and 'avant-garde') wuld have been greatly improved by considering them.<br />Still, those criticisms are relatively minor-- this is a great book and an important one on this subject.  Highly recommended to intellectual historians, art historians, and those who are interested in a good 'history of ideas' account of these five aesthetic concepts.	2002-08-19
US	51062631	R3KA5RLJCVBX1M	0345337778	47553857	A Hole in Space	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Good, if slightly dated, sci-fi	Larry Niven is one of the great sci-fi writers of the 20th century-- and his name is rightly placed alongside Clarke, Asimov, Bradbury, etc.<br />This particular book, _A Hole in Space_, is a collection of short stories.  Many of the stories in this collection are focused on a speculative development known as \\"displacement\\" technology-- that is to say, teleportation. As always with Niven, there are three primary concerns: (1) what could this or that technology be used for, (2) what would be its practical limitations, and (3)how might society respond to such a development and how would it change society.  Thus, you have stories like \\"The Alibi Machine\\", \\"A Kind of Murder\\" and \\"The Permanent Floating Riot Club\\", all of which involve matters of crime and law enforcement in a world where in-home instantaneous teleportion is available. <br />Not all of the stories here, are about teleportation technology.  My personal favorite, \\"The Rammer\\" speculates on what might happen if a person, long frozen in cryogenic suspension, were actually to be revived in some distant future and to find that it was not what he expected or hoped.  It also addresses how he intends to use a particular kind of space flight technology called a ramjet to escape this dystopia.  Another, \\"The Fourth Profession\\" envisions what might happen if it ever became possible to acquire knowledge through the use of pills/drugs that had been coded in a particular way. In it, an ordinary bartender takes four pills (from an alien merchant) that give him knowledge of four unusual professions.<br />As with any collection of short stories, there are some great ones here, some OK ones, and a few duds.  Personally, I think the rescue story \\"All the Bridges Rusting\\" is rather dull, while Niven's non-fiction essay on possible superstructural astroengineering (Dyson spheres, ringworlds, disk worlds, etc.)is just that.... an essay listing some things that might conceivably be done.  <br />And, as always with Niven, the stories really seem to be oriented around scientific puzzle solving.  How does a futuristic society where privacy no longer is valued find people who might be able to stand being alone on an interstellar starship for 30 years?  How to solve a crime when everyone can make a perfect alibi?  How to rescue a ship moving at light speed far outside of the solar system?  How to discover what powers an alien communications generator on Mars?  How to Pretty much every story in here focuses on questions like that-- to some degree or another.  <br />As you may gather from what I've said here about 'problem-solving' and speculative scientific developments, Niven's fiction tends to be oriented around *ideas* and their implications, rather than around characters and their relationships.  Some writers explore the complexities of human feelings and motivations-- not Niven, he explores ideas.  And, in fact, this emphasis on speculative ideas and scientific problem solving extends even to the point where plot and story seem secondary to it.  The real action here is not so much what characters do, but what they figure out and how they they figure it out.  Thus, the real climax of the story \\"There is a Tide\\" ends up being not some great showdown with the deceptive alien the protogonist just met-- but rather, his figuring out why the oceans (seemingly) moonless plant experience tides.  <br />One criticism that can be leveled against this is that, as a result, Niven's characters tend to be cookie-cutter throwaways... more or less similar in personality, behaviour, attitude, etc.  On the other hand, I think it's fair to say that Niven's characters don't *need* to be anything more than that since he's really writing about ideas rather than character in the first place.<br />One other criticism that I think can be leveled against this book (as well as against other Niven books_ is the degree to which *some* parts of it seem a bit \\"dated\\" just three decades later.  And by \\"dated\\" I don't meanreferences to 8-track tapes or anything like that... but rather, with 3 decades having gone by since some of these were written, some of the 'speculative scientific ideas' he proposes seem a bit harder to swallow.  Also, there are many ways in which our society is already changing that Niven doesn't seem to have anticipated-- take smoking and drinking for instance.  His characters usually smoke like chimneys (even aboard spaceships where air is scarce)and drink like fish-- but Niven never seems to have imagined that these sorts of things would be come public health issues. I bring this up not to fault Niven for not having foreseen everything (after all, he's just a writer-- not a prophet), but rather just to illustrate that that there are some features of his fiction that are starting to show their age.  Still, that's no reason not to enjoy 'em.	2002-05-16
US	51062631	R1HBQ23IX6H05X	285257005X	651605365	Alan Stivell;: Ou, Le folk celtique (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Short volume about Stivell	This is a nice little biography of Breton harpist, Alan Stivell.  This isn't really a rigorous or scholarly work-- but it's not purely fan fluff either; one *can* learn some interesting things about Stivell from this.  The book offers a general overview of Stivell life, with especial emphasis on his musical career, including his early efforts as a musician in the Breton 'scouts', his early recordings solo and with Andrea Ar Gouilh, his 60s era festou-noz bands, and his early recordings.<br />A couple of things to be wary of, though:  First, the author is clearly a fan and enthusiast (and, I think, a family friend) of Stivell's... and this clearly colors the tone and content of the book.  For instance, it tends to present Stivell as being the single-handed savior of Breton folk music.  Second,  this book was published in the early-to-mid 70s.... back when Stivell was still a young man and pretty much at the height of his career.  The past 2.5 decades of his career, consequently, are not mentioned.  Third, the book is in French-- and there are no English translations available-- so if you don't read French, you're out of luck.	2002-02-26
US	51062631	R1MJ85SO3WFK00	1889647365	262077916	Plop!	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Sadly, it's just not that funny...	Some folks may think that 'toilet humor' is merely vulgar, and never funny, but I'm not one.  I think a good &quot;poop&quot; joke can be hilarious (Mr. Hanky, on &quot;South Park&quot; for instance).  Sadly, the various one-page cartoons in Baxendale's _Plop_, just aren't very funny.  I didn't laugh a single time when reading this, and in fact, I don't think I saw a single thing that even made me crack a smile.  Humor's largely a matter of personal taste, of course, so others may disagree, but I just found this to be, well, just a bit dull.	2002-01-02
US	51062631	R2VOMH7W9O437A	0192852213	41442591	The Oxford History of the French Revolution	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Outstanding narrative history of the French Revolution	The Oxford History of the French Revolution, written by William Doyle, is easily the best narrative survey of the French Revolution out there today.  Its a long and dense work to be sure, but given the length and complexity of the French Revolution (as well as the events that preceded it and immediately followed it) and Doyle's book is remarkably concise, while still covering all of the important events, personages, developments and issues in ample detail.  In truth, it's really quite stunning that a history of just a few hundred pages is able to address not just internal politics, but matters of religion, diplomacy, ideology, economics, society, and war-- and to do so in a manner that flows smoothly and clearly.  Some folks, of course, may whine about the book still being very dense or complex... but that's the way the French Revolution is-- and there's just no getting around that if you actually want to tell the whole story.  The fact is that the Revolution isa remarkably tangled series of events and can't simply be reduced to a simple easy-to-follow story.  That's that's why it actually forms its own subfield within the field of modern European history-- it's that big and and that complex.  In sum, Doyle's book is an outstanding work of narrative history that covers its subject thoroughly-- although those looking for more detail on particulars will of course want to consult other works.  Very highly recommended as an insightful to those interested in a good solid account of the French Revolution and a reference book even for scholars.	2001-12-27
US	51062631	R1D8YKSUYEIS3	0192818430	734011355	The French Revolution (The World's Classics)	Books	2	44	64	N	N	A pretentious Victorian prose classic	Are you already extremely knowledgeable about the French Revolution, with a detailed memory of all events and individuals involved?  Are you uninterested in what has been said about the French Revolution in this century or the last? Did you find other 19th century accounts of the Revolution (e.g. those by Guizot, Michelet, Tocqueville, Mill) too easy to follow?  Do you prefer a pretentious, self-important, and overly ornate literary style that calls attention to its own artfulness to one that is simple and direct?  Do you like pretentious authors who assume that you're more interested in seeing them display their verbal wit than in learning anything about the subject they're purportedly writing about?  Well then, Thomas Carlyle's history of the French Revolution may be the book for you!<br />I am, of course, being somewhat tongue-in-cheek here... Thomas Carlyle was one of Victorian Britain's great writers.  He's an important historical figure and his prose style is unique, distinctive, and is in many ways, quite beautiful and poetic. Yet, the fact remains that those who are not already familiar with Carlyle should be wary-- very, very wary-- of picking this book up.<br />There are several reasons for this.  First, the fact of the matter is that Carlyle's 'history' is not history as we might think of itThere is little/nothing in the way of exposition or explanation in the sense of laying out 'what happened' or 'who was involved'.  Rather, this book is written from the premise that the readers are already familiar with all the facts and details of the Revolution and are more interested in reading an artful, witty, and clever 'retelling' of it.  Individuals and events are alluded to vaguely, metaphorically, with the expectation that the reader knows all of this already like the back of his/her hand.  When you read something like, &quot;With Rumor unleashed, She flies from De Berry! That Scarlet Woman!&quot;, you're expected to already know who's being talked about and to know pretty much everything there is to know what it is that's being alluded to...  Carlyle, you see, doesn't explain, or introduce, or contextualize... and you don't read Carlyle for explanation or introduction or contextualization.  Rather, you're supposed to already be informed-- and then to read him for the sheer pleasure of his witty wordplay and to nod appreciatively at it.  But if you're not already familiar with the persons and events of the Revolution-- you'll quickly find yourself unable to understand anything and will just be lost.<br />Nor can one consider Carlyle's _The French Revolution_ to be a scholarly study.  The man *was* extremely learned of course-- he knew his stuff.  But he's not really advancing an argument or thesis about the Revolution or why it happened... the sorts of things academic scholars dispute.  He does wax abstractly on occasion, but not to make general claims about the Revolution (or even history in general), but rather to make vague interjections on obscure metaphysical matters (largely derived from German idealist philosophy... and again, these are unexplained... you're expected to already be familiar with thus stuff).<br />Finally, there the matter of Carlyle's style.  As noted above, it's highly poetic and possesses a kind of ornate (if pretentious) beauty that can be appreciated in small doses.  Yet, the fact remains that his peculiar mannerisms (including unnecessary capitalization, archaic and pompous turns of phrase, incomplete sentences followed by exclamation points, the constant use of the present tense even though he's writing about the past, apostrophic asides, etc.) become extremely annoying to read after more than a few pages.  At best, it's an acquired taste... and personally, I'm not sure that there are many folks around today who will find the effort spent in acquiring the taste to be worthwhile.<br />In sum.... don't get this book hoping to learn anything about the French Revolution.  Only get this book if you want to read Carlyle for the sake of reading Carlyle.  Put otherwise, don't get this if you want to read a work of history about the French Revolution-- you'll be wholly disappointed.  The only reason to get it, in fact, is for its value as an example of Carlyle's unique and self-indulgent literary style.if you want to read Carlyle for the sake of reading Carlyle.  Put otherwise, don't get this if you want to read a work of history about the French Revolution-- you'll be wholly disappointed.  The only reason to get it, in fact, is for its value as an example of Carlyle's unique and self-indulgent literary style.	2001-12-27
US	51062631	R3VAG9SD6UUI2H	0737702443	603766439	Literary Companion Series - J.R.R. Tolkein (paperback edition)	Books	2	0	3	N	N	A compilation of old, mediocre articles & excerpts	Like Harold Bloom's \\"Lord of the Rings: Modern Critical Perspectives\\", De Koster's \\"Readings on J.R.R. Tolkien\\" is a compilation of previously printed articles and book excerpts about Tolkien-- and about Lord of the Rings (LotR) in particular.  Also like Bloom's book, it's nothing to get excited about.  Most of its contents are old and whiskered, filled with passe comments and observations.  A few articles are a half-century old book reviews written when LotR first appeared.  Many of the older articles (like Auden's and Wilson's) have also been reprinted many, many times before in other compilations. (Strangely, though, a lot of the older articles have had their names changed from the original...)<br />There are also articles here that were penned more recently... mostly from the 60s, 70s, and 80s, but, to be perfectly honest, only a few of these are genuinely insightful... and many of those insights are, in fact, based on critical methods that are no longer current (e.g. psychoanalytical readings).  Only one article was written in the 90s, a defense of Tolkien against charges of racism, taken straight from Patrick \\"Defending Middle-Earth\\" by Patrick Curry.  Curry's defense is passionate and polemical, but he's preaching to the choir on this point, and this excerpted article is not a particularly good example of Tolkien scholarship in the past decade. <br />On the whole, it's tough to see what value this book has for either a Tolkien fan or scholar.  So much of its content is outdated, and a lot of it just isn't all that substantive to begin with.  Moreover, the fact is that all of the stuff included here can easily be found (in full, not excerpted) in any good public library or half-decent research library, and de Koster doesn't really add anything in the way of editorial comment or organization to make this edition any better than the sum of its parts.  <br />I can't, however, say the book is wholly without merit, as a few articles, like Shippey's are decent (although folks should just go and read his books, rather than the brief excerpt here), and the old reviews are of importance to those interested in the history of Tolkien criticism) Still, I'd recommend that folks avoid this collection of old and mediocre material and instead take a gander at some of more insightful (and more current) Tolkien criticism and scholarship that's out there...	2001-12-26
US	51062631	R1KN6B35PYMWJ5	0312275366	945766669	Meditations on Middle-Earth: New Writing on the Worlds of J. R. R. Tolkien by Orson Scott Card, Ursula K. Le Guin, Raymond E. Feist, Terry Pratchett, Charles de Lint, George R. R. Martin, and more	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Fantasy Authors Reflect Upon Tolkien's Impact	This is a collection of 17 short essays about J.R.R. Tolkien penned by contemporary fantasy &amp; sci-fi authors.  (Actually, 15 essays are by authors-- one is by bibliographer/editor Douglas Andersson and another is an interview with the Hildebrant Brothers, who are reknowned fantasy artists).  <br />As others have noted, the essays are something of a mixed bag.  Of them, only three try to take a critical, scholarly, analytical look at Tolkien.  This is probably for the best, as authors usually make terrible critics.  Of these three, the strongest is Ursula LeGuin's discussion of the poetic rhythms in Tolkien's prose.  While thoughtful, it is nonetheless a bit dull-- and frankly, a much better essay on this same subject can be found in _J.R.R. Tolkien and his Literary Resonances_. The weakest of these three, Orson Scott Card's essay on &quot;How Tolkien Means&quot;, is also the worst in the whole book.  Although his basic contention-- that the essence of Tolkien's fiction lies in &quot;Story&quot; rather than &quot;Meaning&quot;-- is reasonable enough, his point is overwhelmed by an arrogant tone and intermittent rantings against feminists, multiculturalists, literary critics, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, Sigmund Freud, James Joyce, people who like James Joyce, modernists, postmodernists, and pretty much anyone and everyone who doesn't share (or whom he suspects might not share) the exact same approach to literature as he does.<br />Most authors here, however, have (wisely) avoided criticism, analysis, and polemic-- and have instead penned more autobiographical essays, reflecting upon how/when/why they first read Tolkien, how it impacted them both immediately and later on, how it changed their reading habits, how it influenced their own writing, and the like.  Although these essays all have their own unique character and specific content depending on each author's own experiences and style (unsurprisingly, the essays by Terry Pratchett and Esther Freisner are quite funny), one can't help but note a common pattern of experience. With one or two exceptions, most of the writers here encountered Tolkien for the first time as an adolescent during the 1960s.  Most describe reading the _Hobbit_ and the _Lord of the Rings_ as a life-changing event-- as a kind of epiphany or even as a magical experience.  Many say that reading Tolkien inspired them to become writers themselves-- and several describe how many of their own early works were specifically modeled on Tolkien. Virtually all observe note that they probably could never have made a living writing the kind of fantasy fiction that they do if Tolkien hadn't proven to publishers that there was a huge market for this sort of thing.  <br />Of all the essays in the book, the hands-down best is Michael Swanwick's &quot;A Changeling Returns&quot;, an introspective piece that contrasts his childhood memories of reading Tolkien (where he saw mostly magic, adventure, and freedom), with his adulthood re-readings of it (he now sees that the powerful sense of loss and mortality that permeates Tolkien's fiction), and with the experience of reading Tolkien aloud to his children (who are encountering it as he first did as a child... but who can still sense that there is something deeper, sadder, that lies beneath).  Whereas most of the other essays in this book were merely 'interesting', I found this one to be profoundly moving.  (Then again, maybe that's just because I found Swanwick's experiences to be closest to my own).<br />All in all, I can't say that this is a must-have book for either Tolkien fans or scholars, but it does give an intriguing and suggestive first-hand account of how many of today's great fantasy &amp; sci-fi writers have been influenced by Tolkien... although many of the most suggestive elements come not from what individual writers themselves say, but from seeing the commonalities of experience among them.  My only real criticism of the book as whole is that it would have been nice to include as a contrast some essays by authors who *aren't* fantasy writers, by authors whose primary language wasn't English, and/or by authors who were of a different generation that those featured here.	2001-12-14
US	51062631	R3BNUE8SZHAZFW	0813515912	212428842	Desire for Origins: New Language, Old English, and Teaching the Tradition	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Brilliant insights into the ideology of a scholarly field	To many folks, the study of Old English language and literature may seem dull, moribund, rarefied, and largely irrelevant-- a subject only of concern to concern only to musty old academics in the ivory tower.  Frantzen doesn't (directly) try to argue against this perception-- instead, he tries to investigate *why* this perception exists. His answer is an insightful and eye-opening investigation into the relationship among scholarship, ideology, and cultural relevance.<br />Frantzen begins by providing a brief history of Old English (aka Anglo-Saxon) scholarship from its origins in the 16th century to the present day.  From the beginning, he observes, the study of Old English and of texts written in it has been motivated by ideological (i.e. political) concerns.  It began in the 16th century as part of a conscious effort to find medieval evidence for the existence of an independent English Church prior to the Norman Conquest, as a way of finding historical grounds for justifying the English Reformation.  During the 17th and 18th centuries, the study of Anglo-Saxon texts took on a slightly different political agenda, as political theoriests and speechmakers (on both sides of the Atlantic-- Thomas Jefferson was, in fact, a quite knowledgeable amateur scholar of Anglo-Saxon) sought to make claims about precedent, legitimacy, and the rights of the 'free-born Englishman' being rooted in the earliest origins of English, and by extension, Anglo-Saxon, political culture. In the 19th century, the study of Anglo-Saxon became connected to a kind of nationalism that saw the Anglo-Saxon past as a kind of childhood of the modern English nation.  This nationalism was sometimes (but not always) connected to a historico-racial view of nationality and identity, which suggested that anyone of English ancestry ought to revere Anglo-Saxon and its literary monuments, as they were the creations of their great forefathers.  In all these cases, a desire to discover, posit, or identify in theAnglo-Saxon past some sort of origins (religious, political, linguistic, ancestral, etc.) that were of current ideological concern provided a powerful motivating force for the study of Anglo-Saxon and made Anglo-Saxon scholarship seem relevant.<br />Then we turn to the 20th century.... and more particularly to its last few decades.  According to Frantzen, the main reason Anglo-Saxon scholarship today is a bit musty is become detached from these big political contraversies.  The reason is that it is perceived as esoteric and irrelevant, Frantzen suggests, is that in many ways, it genuinely has become so from an ideological point of view.  People no longer study Anglo Saxon because they are concerned with establishing on a firm foundation, the history of the English Church, or in debating whether there is medieval precedent for radical constitutional changes in England or America, or out of a firm belief that our own origins as a people and a nation (whoever &quot;we&quot; actually are) can be found among the Anglo-Saxons.  Nor does it seem likely that any new political contraversies are likely to come along that will suddenly re-invest Anglo-Saxon studies with ideological relevance (and given our current suspicion to ideologically-motivated knowledge, it's not clear whether this would work, even if one were to come along).<br />So, this then leaves a question as to what the future of Anglo-Saxon studies is.  Is it doomed to remain in its current, perceivedly marginal relevance?  Or might there be some way to reinvigorate it-- to emphasize its relevance in a new, non-ideological way?  Frantzen thinks so, and in the latter half of the book, he offers some of his suggestions as to how this might be done.  As often happens in books that begin with an analysis/critique and then proceed to offer solutions, it turns out that his proposed solutions aren't nearly as convincing as the analysis.  Put briefly, I'm not entirely convinced that the new approaches to teaching the Anglo-Saxon tradition that he suggestes will 'save' Anglo-Saxon scholarship, as it were. That's not to say that I don't think Anglo-Saxon studies half any future (or still less that I think they shouldn't).  However, if Frantzen is right about the ideological importance that Old English scholarship has played since its inception (and I'm persuaded he is), and he's right about its current state being a product of decreased ideological relevance, then I'm just skeptical as to whether that can really be changed.<br />All in all this is an insightful book that will be of interest to those who study the middle ages, language origins, or Anglo-Saxon England-- either professionally or out of curiosity.  Those who have no interest in such subjects, however, can give this a pass.	2001-10-31
US	51062631	R1TQPDSXN55494	0313308454	731362892	J.R.R. Tolkien and His Literary Resonances: Views of Middle-earth (Contributions to the Study of Science Fiction and Fantasy)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Best collection of Tolkien articles yet published	For a long time, Tolkien scholarship has had an uneven character.  This isn't the time or place to explain why or give examples, but the appearance of this book, along with the recently published _Tolkien's Legendarium_, suggests that things may be changing and for the better.  This collection of a dozen essays, all written by top-notch Tolkien scholars, possesses the highest degree of intellectual rigor and operates within a genuinely scholarly framework of interpretation.  (You won't find any fan fluff here!)<br />The essays may be loosely divided into three main sections.  The first comprises essays on the poetics and sources of Tolkien's fiction.  The standouts here are Sullivan's &quot;Tolkien the Bard&quot;, which suggests and that Tolkien's style may be best understood as an application of oral poetry and orally told story to written medium, and &quot;The Dragon-Lore of Middle-Earth&quot;, which takes a close look at what Tolkien took from medieval (and specifically Norse) dragon stories and how he specifically adapted the material to his own purpose.  The articles on Tolkien's verse and on his use of _Sir Gawain and the Green Knight_is also quite insightful.<br />The second section tends to be 'comparative' and places Tolkien and his work in juxtaposition with other authors.  The most intriguing article here is one that compares Tolkien's &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot; with the Sir Philip Sydney's &quot;In Defence of Poetry&quot;.  What is so exciting about this is not so much the comparison of Tolkien's 'story theory' with that of Sydney, but the analysis of how, for Tolkien, creative writing-- and indeed the very act of subcreation itself-- is gendered masculine.  Other articles touch on Tolkie and Lewis, _The Hobbit_ and _King Solomons Mines_, and Tolkien and Milton.<br />The third and final section is a more eclectic hodgepodge of articles on different subjects, ranging from Tolkien's legacy (and in particular, the ways in which female fantasy-writers haveadopted, adapted, and responded to the overwhelming and masculine &quot;shadow of the Ring&quot;), to the elegeic quality of Tolkien's fiction and its concernw ith loss, to the nature of evil, to Tolkien's literary treatment of trees.  Of all of these, the last, written by Verlyn Flieger is the most illuminating and advances the most excitin argument.  Flieger carefully notes that the representation of trees and forests in _Lord of the Rings_ is *not* so universally favorable and sympathetic.  By juxtaposing the Old Forest (and Old Man Willow) with Fangorn Forest (and the Ents), Flieger shows that this issue is more complex, ambiguous, and filled with internal tensions than has generally been assumed. It is, perhaps, the most important essay in this collection-- and may represent Flieger's finest work yet as a Tolkien scholar.<br />This is an academic book, published by a smaller press, so it's got a hefty pricetag on it-- but it's an outstanding collection of new Tolkien scholarship and I unqualifiedly recommend it to any serious Tolkien scholars.  Those with an aversion to scholarly inquiry (a la _Tolkien's Legendarium_) and who prefer more fannish modes of discourse(e. g._Visualizing Middle-Earth_), however, might want to give this a pass.	2001-10-18
US	51062631	RK4TZKGJ5BFXV	0313305307	293526703	Tolkien's Legendarium: Essays on The History of Middle-earth (Contributions to the Study of Science Fiction & Fantasy)	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Some *REAL* scholarship here!	Good Tolkien criticism is sadly rare.  Given the amount of fan fluff that's out there, this collection of 14 essays, edited by well-established Tolkien scholars Verlyn Flieger and Carl Hostetter, comes as welcome relief.  The essays, all of which are based to varying degrees on the mammoth 12-volume _History of Middle-Earth_ (hereafter abbreviated as HoME) that was recently completed by Christopher Tolkien are divided up into three main sections. Section 1 deals directly with the contents of HoME and what it tells us about Tolkien's creative processes, the history of his ideas and his constantly niggling and tweaking of them.  Mostly, these essays help 'make sense' out of the complex assemblage of texts, fragments, etc., that make up HoME. One essay also considers the literary value of HoME, raising the thorny question of whether it's useful only as a scholarly tool or whether there is some actual literary merit to the drafts and fragments contained within.  Section 2 is rather short and has three essays on Tolkien's invented languages, focussing on how HomE contributes to our understanding of the development of those languages. The last section deals with more conventionally literary questions, specifically examining how the material in HoME sheds light on questions about plot, influences, sources, structure, etc.  A particularly insightful essay here is Paul Thomas's essay on Tolkien's narrative voices in the The Hobbit, Lord of the Rings, and the various drafts thereof-- noting specifically how (and speculating on why) Tolkien changed the nature of the narrative voice between drafts and final product.  A few essays in this latter group revisit topics that have already been discussed near-exhaustively (e.g. the influence of Germanic mythologies on Tolkien), but the  scholarship is sound and rigorous all the way through.  Highly recommended to Tolkien scholars and to Tolkien fans who want an example of what *real* scholarship (as opposed to fannish pseudo-scholarship a la Michael Martinez) looks like.	2001-10-17
US	51062631	R26ORQFV268UG3	0791056651	667808506	J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings (Modern Critical Interpretations)	Books	2	8	10	N	N	A compilation of old (and somewhat outdated) criticism	Harold Bloom's name is on the cover, but his contribution to this volume is minimal at best.  This book does not actually include any articles *by* Bloom, and his exceedingly brief introduction (barely 1 page long!) says nothing of substance.  It does not even explain why the selected articles were chosen for republication or try to provide any sort of context for them-- something that introductions to collections of scholarly articles (especially when they are older articles) really are supposed to do.  <br />The ten articles republished here are all 20-30 years old (written between 1968-1982) and do not reflect current (or even recent) trends in Tolkien criticism. That's not to say that they're bad or completely irrelevant, mind you. However, they are starting to show their age (especially the older ones, like Roger Sale's article, the contributions by Paul Kocher, as well as the Jungian approach to ciriticism evidenced by the excerpt from Tim O'Neill's _The Individuated Hobbit_, or by Anne C. Petty's application of Joseph Campbell's _Hero with the Thousand Faces_ and Vladimir Propp's _Morphology of the Folktale_ to Tolkien's fiction.) Again, it's not that these are bad per se, but the kinds of approaches and methodologies they are pretty much passe-- both in literary criticism in general and in Tolkien studies in specific. They make some worthwhile observations, but they just seem old, tired, and a bit too well-worn. The one exception to this is an excerpt taken from Tom Shippey's excellent _The Road to Middle Earth_, one of the most recent works to be reflected here. In short, the essays included here have decent substance, but it's not entirely clear why Bloom chose such old ones-- or whether these were even the best old ones to choose. <br />All in all, there is enough substance in these old articles to interest a Tolkien fan or scholar in spite of their age-- however, don't expect a lot (or in fact, any) insight from Bloom himself on Tolkien's fiction or on the history of Tolkien criticism, because it just ain't there.	2001-10-17
US	51062631	R3E2SJ9YFDOQJ	0791056600	667808506	J.R.R. Tolkien (Bloom's Modern Critical Views)	Books	2	12	14	N	N	An edition of old (and largely oudated) criticism	Harold Bloom appears to have done little work and put very little thought into this collection of &quot;Modern Critical Interpretations&quot; of Tolkien. His so-called introduction is barely a page long and says nothing of the history of Tolkien criticism. He does not even explain why the included articles were chosen (and there are no introductions to individual articles either). In truth, his introduction is so short, supercilious, and devoid of substance that I do not believe it to even be a sincere scholarly effort-- it more has the character of something that was dashed off in 10-15 minutes.<br />Nor is a significantly greater effort evident in the selection of articles. The ten articles republished here are all 20-30 years old (written between 1968-1982) and do not reflect current (or even recent) trends in Tolkien criticism. That's not to say that they're bad or completely irrelevant, mind you. However, they are starting to show their age (especially the older ones, like Roger Sale's article and Paul Kocher's contributions, as well as the Jungian approach to ciriticism evidenced by the excerpt from Tim O'Neill's _The Individuated Hobbit_, and Anne C. Petty's application of Joseph Campbell's _Hero with the Thousand Faces_ and Vladimir Propp's _Morphology of the Folktale_ to Tolkien's fiction. Again, it's not that these are bad per se, but the kinds of approaches and methodologies they represent are pretty much passe-- both in literary criticism in general and in Tolkien studies in specific. They make some worthwhile observations, but they just seem old, tired, and a bit too well-worn. The one exception to this is an excerpt taken from Tom Shippey's excellent _The Road to Middle Earth_, one of the most recent works to be reflected here (published in 1982). In short, the essays included here have OK substance, but it's not entirely clear why Bloom chose such old ones-- or whether these were even the best old ones to choose. <br />All in all, there is enough substance in these old articles to interest a Tolkien fan or scholar in spite of their age-- however, don't expect a lot (or in fact, any) insight from Bloom himself on Tolkien's fiction or on the history of Tolkien criticism, because it just ain't there.	2001-10-17
US	51062631	R2MFWRTMT9YHZF	0738872547	959226375	Visualizing Middle-earth	Books	1	43	57	N	N	This isn't scholarship; it's fannish fluff	Michael Martinez may call himself a 'Tolkien researcher', but anyone picking up _Visualizing Middle-Earth_ should be aware that this is not a work of serious scholarship. The various essays collected within are wholly fannish in style, character, and content. Many are just light-heared fannish musings and diversions, such as the essay entitled &quot;Would Sandra Bullock Make a Good Mrs. Isildur?&quot; (the actual title of one of the essays... honest!), or &quot;Dear Gandalf&quot; a humorous series of imagined letters from the Kings of Arnor to Gandalf written in the style of a &quot;Dear Abby&quot; column. Many others consist of nothing more than speculations and rumors about the upcoming _Lord of the Rings_ movies being directed by Peter Jackson and Martinez's musings upon them. Still others address questions as to whether Tolkien fans should consider the commercialization of Tolkien a good thing or a bad thing.<br />It is not clear to me how these kinds of essays constitute 'research'.  Mere musings and opinions, even when interspersed with casually remarkable details derived from Tolkien's texts (such as noting that Isildur lived to be more than 200 years) are not scholarship, even using a broad definition of the word.  <br />There are, I should note, a few essays in _Visualizing Middle-Earth_ (e.g. &quot;As Strange as News from Bree&quot;) that seem like they're more scholarly in aspiration. Most of these, however, are conceptually flawed-- and unfortunately for Martinez, the flaw is fatal. Rather than approaching Tolkien's writings as imaginative works of literature in these essays, Martinez [approaches them as if] they were historical sources- and rather than writing genuine literary criticism of Tolkien's fiction, he writes as if he were a historian performing research into the history of Middle-earth.  [...]  Although Tolkien frames _The Lord of the Rings_ as if it were a kind of history (complete with appendices on genealogy, chronology, etc.), this is (asTolkien himself noted) merely a literary device-- and Tolkien's writings are ultimately literary works. Trying to use the texts to conduct 'research' into the history of Bree, the dwelling-places of the rangers, or the 'actual' physical characteristics of balrogs may be a fun intellectual game for Tolkien fans to play, a kind of fan-fiction that wears a historian's mask, but it should not be confused with real literary scholarship of the sort done by Shippey, Flieger, Chance, Kocher, Giddings, Curry, Isaacs &amp; Zimbardo, and other literary scholars. <br />In fact, of the several dozen essays in _Visualizing Middle-Earth_, only two even seem close to genuine literary criticism: &quot;Middle-earth Is Not Medieval Europe&quot; and a follow-up that specifically contends that the Rohirrim are not modelled on the Anglo-Saxons or other early Germanic peoples. Even here, however, Martinez [seems to approach] the question without any real literary critical sophistication or any awareness of how complex the nature of literary influences and adapations are. For example, he dismisses the fact that the Rohirrim have Anglo-Saxon names, that they speak Anglo-Saxon, that they look and dress like Anglo-Saxons, that Theoden's Hall is almost exactly like Hrothgar's in _Beowulf_, that they bury their dead in mounds (as did the Anglo-Saxons &amp;  early Scandinavians), etc. on the grounds that there is not a 100% identity between the Rohirrim and the Anglo-Saxons. The Anglo-Saxons, Martinez notes, were a seafaring people, while the Rohirrim are a landlocked people famed for horse-riding. Additionally, he notes, the early Anglo-Saxons were pagans who later converted to Christianity, while _The Lord of the Rings_ says nothing of the religion of the Rohirrim. This, combined with the fact that he's read a whole two Viking sagas (in translation, of course) and saw no fruitful comparisons to the Rohirrim there, leads Martinez to conclude that the Rohirrim are ultimately not comparable to the Anglo-Saxons or other early Germanic peoples. <br />Ultimately, I suppose that there are some Tolkien fans out there who might enjoy _Visualizing Middle-Earth_. Anyone who likes reading on-line Tolkien newsgroups and chatrooms and just engaging in all sorts of fannish discussion on anything remotely related to Tolkien will probably find that Martinez's book is an entertaining read. But anyone who comes expecting to find a work of serious scholarship and erudition should prepare to be very disappointed.	2001-10-12
US	51062631	R13N4JY7Y8R3DK	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Very uneven, but still quite insightful	Tom Shippey's first book on Tolkien, _The Road to Middle-Earth_, was a profoundly insightful work.  His philologically informed background provided keen insight into the linguistic backdrop (both real and imaginative) of Tolkien's fiction, showing the complex verbal play taking place within the story.  It still stands, in my opinion, as the single-best scholarly book yet published about Tolkien.<br />By comparison, _J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century_ is a disappointment.  Why?  Several reasons, the first of which is the fact that many of the points Shippey makes here have previously been made in his first book.  Much of the material here is a rehash of _Road to Middle-Earth_; this is true both in the general nature of Shippey's approach (i.e. emphasizing Tolkien's philological inspiration, and in particular his Anglo-Saxonist bent) as well as many specific and detailed philological points.<br />Even more disappointing is the fact that the writing in parts of this book has a scattered quality. The introduction, the &quot;Re-Inventing Middle-Earth&quot; chapter (about the Hobbit), and the greater part of the first chapter on Lord of the Rings (&quot;Mapping Out a Plot&quot;) are solid and well-organized, but after that, one can't help but get the feeling that Shippey got a bit rushed and just started throwing things together in an increasingly slapdash way in order to get the book out before the first of the Lord of the Rings movies appeared.  The end of &quot;Mapping out a Plot&quot; starts to lose focus, and while the second Lord of the Rings chapter (on evil) still holds together reasonably well, the third Lord of the Rings chapter (on Tolkien's mythology) is particularly disorganized, with little sense of any intellectual or methodological focus whatsoever. The Silmarillion chapter and the chapter on Tolkien's minor works are pretty much pointless, while the two appendices (one on Tolkien's critics, and one on Tolkien's literary decscendants, like Donaldson), seem like hastily tacked-on additions that aren't fully developed.<br />In spite of all that, there still is a lot of merit in this book.  Though much of it is rehashed, the fact remains that Shippey's philological observations are still as insightful here as in _The Road to Middle-Earth_, and anyone who has not read that book, will still learn much from this one.  Also, there are a few moments of specific analysis that are quite solid examples of thorough scholarship.  Shippey's account of Tolkien's writing process in &quot;Mapping Out the Plot&quot; is solid and critically thoughtful, while his close analysis of speakers and language in the &quot;Council of Elrond&quot; chapter is nothing short of brilliant.<br />Shippey's attempt to redefine the literary context of Tolkien is also suggestive.  Too often, it has been the convention to lump Tolkien in with his friends C.S. Lewis and Charles Williams-- or more broadly with a larger romance/fantasy tradition.  In the chapter on Evil, Shippey suggests (quite rightly, I think), that Tolkien ought more properly be compared with other 20th century writers (like Orwell, Golding, Vonnegut, and even T.H. White) who have been distressed by the seemingly unlimited human capacity for *evil* that modernity has enabled us to unleash and found that this question could not be meaningfully approached except through the creation of 'fantastic' worlds and scenarios.  (I'm not entirely sure that I agree with Golding and Orwell being called 'fantastic' here, but I think the basic point holds well enough).  Unfortunately, this idea requires greater development and complexity than Shippey gives it here-- but it still is a very suggestive beginning.  IMHO, Shippey should have devoted all the time he spent rehashing material from _Road to Middle-Earth_ to developing *this* idea further, making it the central argument of the book.<br />All in all, I have to say that _J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century_, in spite of its many flaws, is a worthwhile and insightful book-- and it's still better than most of the fluff that passes as 'Tolkien scholarship'.  Still, it's no _Road to Middle-Earth_, and anyone expecting this book to rival that one should prepare to be disappointed.a worthwhile and insightful book-- and it's still better than most of the fluff that passes as 'Tolkien scholarship'.  Still, it's no _Road to Middle-Earth_, and anyone expecting this book to rival that one should prepare to be disappointed.	2001-10-10
US	51062631	R33IG9CNT7UHHB	0873382560	716289541	Tolkien Criticism: An Annotated Checklist (Serif Series : Bibliographies and Checklists, No. 39)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good descriptive bibliography	This is the 1981 2nd edition of Richard West's excellent descriptive bibliography of Tolkien criticism.  While it's not as comprehensive as Judith Johnson's 1986 bibliography of the same, and while it lacks the useful year-by-year organization of the same, it is much more descriptive.  The major works of criticized are summaried in substantial detail and the cross-references are particularly good.  I'd consider both this and the Johnson bibliography to be essential for any Tolkien scholar-- it's only a shame that neither's been updated for over 15 years!	2001-10-01
US	51062631	R156IV3WXIEQSL	0313250057	27907603	J.R.R. Tolkien: Six Decades of Criticism (Bibliographies and Indexes in World Literature)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Outstanding bibliography of Tolkien criticism	This chronologically-organized bibliography provides a list (sometimes descriptive, sometimes not) of Tolkien criticism up through 1984. It also contains brief bibliographical entries for Tolkien's own published works. Needless to say, the overwhelming majority of listings pertain to Tolkien's fiction-- especially his masterwork, _The Lord of the Rings_. However, it does include reviews and responses to his more scholarly publications (for example, it lists reviews of his and Gordon's edition of _Sir Gawain &amp; the Green Knight_ as well as responses to his articles &quot;Chaucer as Philologist&quot; and &quot;Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics&quot;). In terms of its comprehensiveness, this book is far more thorough than any other Tolkien criticism bibliographies (e.g Richard C. West's). Johnson is to be praised for including articles that appeared in the major Tolkien fanzines (Mythlore, Orcrist, Amon Hen, Minas Tirith Evening Star, Seven, etc.) and for including information on which university libraries actually have these periodicals.  However, it should be noted that her survey of these fanzines is not comprehensive-- reviews of secondary works about Tolkien that appeared in fanzines are not generally listed and there are some even more obscure items that got left out here. Some of those missing, in fairness, are really minor self-published items and are extremeley rare and obscure-- things that only had 100-issue runs and only lasted 1-2 issues. While unlikely to be found even in excellent research libraries, many of them are available for consultation in the Marquette University Special Collections (which has a very large collection of Tolkieniana). If a second edition of this essential bibliography ever appears (and one should-- it's been almost two decades since the first one!)-- I hope it includes not only post-1984 material, but also some more fanzine content from these obscurities.	2001-09-28
US	51062631	R2B2MJ0C5E7WPW	0938768425	532603296	J.R.R. Tolkien: A Descriptive Bibliography (Winchester Bibliographies of 20th Century Writers)	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Detailed bibliography of Tolkien's own work	This is a richly detailed bibliography of J.R.R. Tolkien's writings.  (Keep that in mind-- this is not a bibliography of Tolkien criticism or scholarship-- only of Tolkien's own works). Each edition of each work is described in careful detail-- subtle distinctions in the cover, title page, etc. are noted as are variations in spelling, typography, errata and corrections. To be honest, I'm not sure how relevant this work is for the average Tolkien fan-- or even for the Tolkien scholar.  It will certainly be useful for book collectors, used/rare booksellers, book appraisers, and others who are interested in the book itself as a physical object)-- but I think there's very little of interest here fans interested in broadening their understanding of Tolkien's fiction or for scholars interested in writing about it.  Because of its very limited, very specific utility, I can't really justify a high rating for this.  Don't get me wrong-- for what it is, it's thorough and quite excellent.  But, I just don't think it's all that *useful* of a book to anyone but a small handful of bibliophiles	2001-09-28
US	51062631	R38SA3TPZSLV2B	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hysterically funny satire... but some references are dated	This is an extremely funny parody of _The Lord of the Rings_.  The most impressive think about it is the degree to which the details (parodized, of course) correspond to details in the original.  I'm not just talking about characters, names, plot events either-- even style, phrasings, and rhythm and rhyme (in the poems) are satirized here.  <br />The book, however, does have two shortcomings.  First,this was written three decades ago and a lot of the language and references are very dated.  It's still quite funny to see characters saying &quot;Groovy&quot;, of course, but it's a different kind of funny-- a nostalgic funny like Austin Powers. The dated references (including many to commercial products no longer around)are a little more difficult... older readers will get them, but younger readers may end up just scratching their heads as to what some of these 'arcane' references are.  The second is that it doesn't go quite all the way and include a satire of the appendices of _Lord of the Rings_ as well.  Still, these are minor complaints about an otherwise very funny book.<br />Finally, one word of caution.  Although this is a very funny book, I think it's humor can only really be appreciated by Tolkien fans-- by folks who've actually read the originals well enough that they can follow what's being satirized.  There are, however, some Tolkien fans who still won't appreciate _Bored of the Rings_.  I'm talking here about those folks who view _The Lord of the Rings_ in the way that fundamentalists view the Bible.  So, if the very *idea* of an irreverent parody of Tolkien's fiction strikes you as offensive, insulting, or even blasphemous (don't laugh-- such people do exist), I'd recommend giving this book a wide berth-- it's not written for you, and you won't enjoy it.	2001-09-27
US	51062631	R1LDUBFSBIX2SW	026110263X	660717484	The Monsters and the Critics: And Other Essays. J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	4	81	85	N	N	Good collection of lectures/articles	This volume contains several essays/articles by Tolkien, most of which were originally delivered as lectures.  The essays included are: &quot;Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics&quot;, &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot;, &quot;English and Welsh&quot;, &quot;Sir Gawain and the Green Knight&quot;, &quot;On Translating Beowulf&quot;, &quot;A Secret Vice&quot; (about imaginary languages), and a Valedictory address given at Oxford upon his retirement.  Most of these had been published before, of course.  Some, like &quot;Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics&quot; and &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot; have been republished and reprinted many times, while others, like &quot;English and Welsh&quot; have only appeared a handful of times in obscure locations.  Many of these others, however, appear in print here for the first time.<br />Of these essays, the two most interesting are undoubtedly the two that have appeared most often in print-- the first Beowulf essay and &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot;.  &quot;Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics&quot;, of course, is the most important article on Beowulf of the 20th century.  Incredible as it may now seem, prior to Tolkien, Beowulf had been seen primarily as a curious linguistic-literary artifact, useful as a source of information about the early Germanic past (customs, language, laws, toponymy, etc.).  Tolkien was the first critic to draw attention to the poem *as* a poem and to point out that the central literary structure of the tale revolves around the hero's battles with them monsters, which previous critics had dismissed as mere fabulous emendations to a tale whose primary value was historical. &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot;, of course, has been much cited by Tolkien fans and scholars as a theoretical model for understanding Tolkien's neo-Romantic approach to fiction (especially fantastic fiction), with its Coleridgean emphasis upon authorship as the subcreation of a &quot;secondary world&quot; within the broader primary world.  Personally, I think the merit of this essay is vastly overrated, as is its usefuless as a means of understanding Tolkien's own fiction-- but it's something that Tolkien fans/scholars should probably read, if only because others have spent so much time harping on its importance.  <br />Of the remaining essays, the most interesting is probably the previously unpublished lecture on Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.  This is essentially an analysis of the poem, focussing on the (central) theme of temptation.  It should be of interest both to those interested in what is now an old-school reading of the poem and to those interested in how Tolkien himself read and taught the poem.  In the course of his explication, he makes some interesting side comments that show he was aware of the myth-and-ritual approach to this poem (which held that it drew upon on ancient rites regarding the annual death and regrowth of vegetation)as well as pointing outing out that the key to the poem's success lies in its having such 'deep roots', rather than simply being an mere moral allegory.  This, I think, sheds some additional light on Tolkien's aesthetics and why his fiction ends up having such a 'pagan and mythic' feel to it (in spite of its undeniably Christian values system), quite unlike the rather obvious allegories of his friend, C.S. Lewis.  <br />The other essays, although certainly worthy of being put into print, are not necessarily all that insightful.  The true Tolkien fan-- and maybe the Tolkien scholar who's really interested in Tolkien's philological work-- may find them of some mild interest. <br />One final point I should make is that this collection, edited by Christopher (naturally), does have a good number of notes about textual history.   Since several of these essays were previously published-- and since Tolkien was an endless reviser, slightly different versions of certain passages appear in different published versions.  Christopher has, in the footnotes, indicated where such differences exist and provided the alternate versions.	2001-09-26
US	51062631	R33SR8JPPZLW0I	014044100X	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	5	45	46	N	N	The greatest story ever told?	The Epic of Gilgamesh is an ancient story-- perhaps 4 thousand to 5 thousand years old.  Originating in ancient Sumeria, it spread throughout the Near East and the version we have has been reconstructed from Akkadian, Babylonian, Hittite, and Hurrian translations inscribed on clay tablets.  Its themes and motifs (including a divinely ordained Great Flood) influenced the development of other great poetic works and mythological traditions, including those of ancient Egypt, Israel, and Greece.<br />The story here is mythic and powerful.  I won't try to summarize it other than to say that it raises truly timeless questions about what it means to be human-- questions about love sex  and friendship, about nature and civilization, of the simple joys in life and about our desire to do great deeds, about our fear of death and the impossiblity of escaping it.<br />There is much about this story that may seem archaic, naive, and odd to first-time readers, ranging from the description of Gilgamesh as 2/3 god, 1/3 mortal (which may perplex folks who try to work out how that can happen hereditarily speaking), to the repetivite narrative voice that stem from the conventions of orally performed poetry (which does seem a bit odd when being *read* silently in a book).  However, once one learns to see beyond these curious features, it is apparent that _The Epic of Gilgamesh_, as it has come down to us, is a brilliant and clever piece of poetic craftsmanship and storytelling.  The use of recurrent images and motifs, the narrative symmetries and ironies (e.g. how, after Enkidu's death, Gilgamesh leaves the city, puts on animal furs, and goes off into the wilderness... becoming much like Enkidu was at the beginning of the story).  In truth, I would not hesitate to say that the _Epic of Gilgamesh_ is, from a poetic point of view, as complex and sophisticated as any of Shakespeare's plays. <br />The Penguin edition of the poem, I should add, offers a loose prose translation that is quite satisfactory and extremely readable.  Those who are more interested in the stylistic qualities of the original may prefer a more literal translation, while those more interested in the history of the poem and its sources, may prefer a more scholarly edition-- but for the general or first time reader, Sandars' edition should be more than suitable.	2001-09-24
US	51062631	R343XAELG3G5X4	0859914453	968116615	The Figure of Beatrice: A Study in Dante	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A classic study.	This is a classic study of Dante's _Divine Comedy_, by Charles Williams, who was, among other things, a close friend and colleague of J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis.  If one wants a solid critical interpretation of Dante's masterpiece from the neo-Romantic (and commitedly Christian) perspective of mid-century Oxford medievalist scholars, there is no better book.  It's clearly written by a fellow who knows his stuff-- and it has been a major influence on how others (especially other Oxfordian Christians) have viewed the Commedia.  (Those folks familiar with Dorothy Sayers' translations of Dante know that all of her notes and comments are pretty much cribbed wholesale from Williams...)  Still, this book was written a half-century ago, and many of its assumptions, approaches, and insights seem a bit old-fashioned-- and there are a lot of new perspectives and questions in Dante scholarship that it just doesn't discuss at all.  Nevertheless, it remains an insightful study that offers astute insight into Dante's art, and though dated in some ways, it is by no means outdated.	2001-09-22
US	51062631	RFNU8U1B0HSK4	0313232830	803000520	The Comedy of the Fantastic: Ecological Perspectives on the Fantasy Novel (Contributions to the Study of Science Fiction and Fantasy)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting, but not wholly successful	Don Elgin's goal is to write about what he calls the &quot;ecological perspective&quot; found in modern fantasy novels.  The opening chapter is devoted to explaining what he means by &quot;ecological perspective&quot;.  As Elgin uses it, &quot;ecological perspective&quot; refers to a broad philosophical viewpoint wherein humanity is conceived of as *part* of an organic natural world that has its  complex needs and requirements of which our own are but a part.  This viewpoint is antithetical, he claims, to the dominant western viewpoint that nature is an inert and mechanical 'thing' that we can, and should, master, subdue, and rework in our own image.  (It should be noted that Elgin traces this western viewpoint back not merely to the Enlightenment or the Scientific Revolution, but back to the Judeo-Christian myth of the Garden of Eden, where God says to man, &quot;Go forth and subdue the earth&quot;.)  Elgin also identifies the use of this 'ecological perspective' in novels as taking two forms: 1) the tragic form, where disaster ensues from the characters' separation fromand hostility towards nature, and 2) the comic, where characters who have become alienated or separated from nature are reunited or reconciled to it.<br />The remaining chapters are devoted to exploring how this ecological perspective can be found in the fantasy novels of five different authors: J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, Charles Williams, Frank Herbert, and Joy Chant.  This is a rather odd combination of figures to write about.  For obvious reasons, Tolkien, Lewis, and Williams (who were friends, colleagues, and members of the same literary 'club', the Inklings) are usually grouped together, but the inclusion of Frank Herbert and Joy Chant (who?!?) who wrote a few decades later and who had little in common seems a bit odd.  This combination seems all the more odd given the fact that the overwhelmingly allegorical nature Lewis's work really seems a bit problematic here (and Elgin freely admits this), while Frank Herbert's works are more conventionally considered as science fiction (although the books certainly fit in well with the 'ecological perspective').  The inclusion of Joy Chant, a rather minor and obscure author especially in comparison with the other four, also seems puzzling, although Elgin is able to make good use of her fiction to make his point. <br />All in all, Elgin's main argument that the fantasy novel is an 'ecological comedy', or that, at the very least, it can be understood as such, is interesting, original, and offers an interesting and new perspective on the genre.  It is also fairly compelling-- at least in regard to Tolkien and Herbert -- although it is a bit more strained with Lewis and Williams.    Elgin's secondary goal, of showing that the fantasy novel seems to be predicated upon a kind of neo-Romantic literary theory (e.g. Coleridge as reinterpreted by Tolkien, Lewis, and Williams) and the Romantic novel also seems quite sound.... although I feel that he takes this neo-Romantic viewpoint a little too  much at face value, considering it as 'the truth' rather than subjecting it to critical or historical analysis.  This is particularly evident when he starts identifying some books as successful and others as unsuccessful and uses their adherence to a Tolkienien view of authorship as the subcreation of a coherent secondary world as the measure of their success.  (The moments where Elgin starts going into this litmus-test evaluative mode are the weakest in the book).<br />One final thing that should be noted is that this book was published in 1985.  Since then, there's been a great flood of books in the fantasy and sci-fi genre (more scifi than fantasy) actually, that make 'ecology' a central concern-- Kim Stanley Robinson's Mars books, David Brin's Uplift books,  etc.  I suspect that if Elgin were to write this book today-- or if he were to write an expanded second edition that discussed these books, he might have some very interesting things to say about them, and they might actually cause him to have to modify his argument in some unusual and important ways.	2001-09-22
US	51062631	R3AVZ3XF51Z3A6	087548316X	431413823	A Tolkien Compass: Including J. R. R. Tolkien's Guide to the Names in The Lord of the Rings	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A decent collection of essays about Tolkien	Published in 1975, this is a good collection of essays about Tolkien's fiction given that the essays are ostensibly written by &quot;fans&quot; rather than scholars. A few of the essays are, it must be conceded, naive in style and scope-- like the one which makes the rather obvious claim that the main theme of the Lord of the Rings is that &quot;power corrupts&quot;. Quite a few others, however, are quite insightful, particular Charles Huttar's article on &quot;Hell and the City&quot;, Robert Plink's analysis of the &quot;Scouring of the Shire&quot; chapter, and Richard West's analysis of the 'interlace' structure of The Lord of the Rings. Also Bonniejean Christiansen's article on the characterological differences between Gollum that were produced by the *major* revisions of the &quot;Riddles in the Dark&quot; chapter of the Hobbit is extremely valuable-- both for what she has to say about Gollum and for the fact that she offers side-by-side quotations from both the first and second editions of that chapter so the reader can see what has changed from one to the other. <br />Quite surprisingly, these essays aren't nearly as dated as a lot of other Tolkien criticism that came out at the same time or earlier. (The publication of Carpenter's biography of Tolkien in 1977, as well as the posthumous publication of the _Silmarillion_ and then later of Tolkien's letters has rendered a lot of older Tolkien criticism out-of-date or irrelevant). In fact, these essays are just as good and insightful as a lot of Tolkien criticism being written now (in fact, they're better than a lot of it!). The main reason for their continued relevance, I think, is tha they are clearly focused on Tolkien's fictional *texts* as texts that can be analyzed on their own terms. Rather than delving into lots of biographical details, into questions of authorial intention, trying to place The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings in the context of _The Silmarillion_, or connecting them to Tolkien's alleged goal of creating a 'mythology for England', these articles focus on specific chapters, images, themes, and structures from The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings, this gives them a kind of 'permanence' that other earlier Tolkien criticism has lacked. (Also, I think the emphasis upon Tolkien's texts themselves leads to more insightful analysis than the biographically-oriented authorial-intention-minded criticism that's still dominant among Tolkien criticism). It's a real shame this has gone out of print...	2001-09-21
US	51062631	R1IKMZH2KO8IYN	0688157416	325954414	Myth Maker: J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	1	6	21	N	N	Watered-down biography	Neimark's &quot;Myth Maker: J.R.R. Tolkien&quot; is a biography of Tolkien the man, and makes no serious attempt at literary criticism or interpretation. That's fine, of course-- but the problem is that it's not a very *good* biography by any measure. Certainly, Neimark makes no points, raises no issues, and consults no sources that haven't been used in the much more insightful  biographies by Daniel Grotta-Kurska (an unauthorized biography and Humphrey Carpenter (the Tolkien estate approved bio). Really, this seems seems to be a watered-down version of those biographies (more Carpenter's than Grotta-Kurska's, actually), briefly summarizing Tolkien's life and writings and doing so in fairly simplistic language. The low level of the prose, the simplistic presentation of Tolkien's life, and the presence of several illustrations inclines to be believe that this is a book intended for children (I'd say it was aimed at kids between 10-14... those who are old enough to read the Hobbit and Tolkien's other fiction on their own.). I'm not really sure what even Tolkien fans of this age will get out of this book though-- and I think any kids who are seriouslyinterested in Tolkien enough to want to read about him as a man would much prefer to find out *real information* in one of more substantive biographies.	2001-09-21
US	51062631	R9KB20EUYHHXH	0688157416	325954414	Myth Maker: J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	1	0	10	N	N	Watered-down biography	Neimark's &quot;Myth Maker: J.R.R. Tolkien&quot; is a biography of Tolkien the man, and makes no serious attempt at literary criticism or interpretation. That's fine, of course-- but the problem is that it's not a very *good* biography by any measure. Certainly, Neimark makes no points, raises no issues, and consults no sources that haven't been used in the much more insightful  biographies by Daniel Grotta-Kurska (an unauthorized biography and Humphrey Carpenter (the Tolkien estate approved bio). Really, this seems seems to be a watered-down version of those biographies (more Carpenter's than Grotta-Kurska's, actually), briefly summarizing Tolkien's life and writings and doing so in fairly simplistic language. The low level of the prose, the simplistic presentation of Tolkien's life, and the presence of several illustrations inclines to be believe that this is a book intended for children (I'd say it was aimed at kids between 10-14... those who are old enough to read the Hobbit and Tolkien's other fiction on their own.). I'm not really sure what even Tolkien fans of this age will get out of this book though-- and I think any kids who are seriouslyinterested in Tolkien enough to want to read about him as a man would much prefer to find out *real information* in one of more substantive biographies.	2001-09-21
US	51062631	RFY6AD634E0B8	0064472051	75593092	The Hounds of the Morrigan	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A dissenting opinon...	The consensus of other reviewers all seems to be that _The Hounds of the Morrigan_ is the 'greatest book ever'.  (In fact, I see that very phrase used repeatedly below).  Having just finished it, I can't agree.  That's not to say, mind you, that it's a *bad* book, or that all those other reviewers are wrong.  I'm just saying that, myself, I really just didn't care for it.<br />Before I explain what I didn't like about the book, perhaps I should say a few things about myself and my tastes. [...]<br />Nevertheless, the fact remains that I found myself father bored by _The Hounds of the Morrigan_.  Well, that's not entirely true.  I enjoyedthe first 120 pages or so-- when things are just starting out and Pidge and Brigit are just figuring out what's going on.  There were some odd and jarring juxtapositions here (e.g. the story's set in modern times, with department stores and Harley-Davidsons, but the village the children live in still has a blacksmith and other things that make it feel like it exists in some pre-modern time), but the story, plot, and characters went along well enough.  The problem for me began, I think, around p. 140 when two things occured.  First,it became clear that Pidge and Brigit weren't *really* ever going to become heroes in the active sense of the word... rather, they were just being herded through the events in the story by its magical/legendary characters who simply seemed to pop into existence to tell the characters to do something new: \\"Buy the book\\" says a hidden voice.  \\"Watch out at the crossroads\\" says a strange fisherman.  \\"Put the book in iron\\" says the Dagda.  \\"Give the book to me\\" says a giant eel.\\"  This really drives the whole story along.  A mythical character appears, tells the kids to do something\\" and they go and do it-- that's really the basic driving mechanism of the story...  Yes, yes, there's the quest for the Morrigan's blood, and the general mthic scope of the tale-- but on a practical level, it just seemed like the only reason that the characters did things was that the author had other characters come in and tell them to do them... which really isn't all that interesting. <br />The second thing that occured at this point that turned me off was the introduction of the talking animals.  Now, don't get me wrong-- I've got nothing against talking animals per se, especially in children's fantasy literature.  Reepacheep is perhaps my favorite character from the Narnia books, and as I said above, I love Brian Jacques books.  My problem here is that I just found the talking animals are done in too silly, too corny a matter.  Here I am, trying to enjoy a modern fantasy tale steeped in Irish legend and set in Ireland, and along come a host of talking frogs speaking like Jar-Jar Binks.  Maybe I'm just getting too old or something, but this and cutesy aspects of the animal characters just kind of bugged me.  <br />When all's said and done, I have to say that the sheer scope of its accomplishment (in writing a modern children's story infused with Irish legend) is impressive.  My only regret is that I didn't find it more interesting....	2001-09-14
US	51062631	R1TZJFPY18CD5E	0746307497	28968155	J.R.R. Tolkien (Writers and Their Work)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the best short surveys of Tolkien there is...	There are three types of books about Tolkien: (1) adulent works written by fans, (2) scholarly works participating in an ongoing dialogue with other scholars, and (3) short summary/survey works that are usually written as part of a series of books on different authors.  Moseley's book on Tolkien falls clearly into category 3--  this is a basic overview of Tolkien's life, work, and fiction that is intended to serve as a kind of 'critical introduction' to his fiction.  As such, it is most comparable in scope and structure with other 'general surveys' of Tolkien (such as those penned by Kathryn Crabbe, the Rogers', Catherine R. Stimpson, etc.) than with more focused works of scholarship (such as Shippey's _The Road to Middle-Earth_ or fan fluff (like Carter's _A Look Behind The Lord of the Rings_.<br />That said, I have to say that Moseley's book, introductory survey though it may be, is one of the best books on Tolkien I've yet seen.  His understanding of Tolkien's fiction is profound, as his general knowledge of literary history and contemporary academic literary theory.  He is, consequently, very well able to situate Tolkien's thought within a broader history of literary criticism.  Although he does not engage in a lot of postmodern jargon hurling, he does seem familiar enough with the contemporary idioms of literary scholarship that he is able to point out just how different Tolkien's literary theory was in comparison to those dominant today.  And, even more impressively, Moseley's chapter on Tolkien's fiction manages to display a good deal of critical insight-- quite rare in a survey book of this sort.  Also quite favorable isthe balanced tone he takes throughout his discussion(never accusing or denigrating a la Stimpson, and never fawning or defensive like Patrick Curry and so many other fan-criticism).  <br />I do, however, have two minor criticisms of this book.   The first is that Mosely, like so many, *many* other writers on Tolkien, accepts at face value theidea (first voiced by Tolkien himself)that Tolkien's work is, or is intended to be a 'myth'.  Yet, it never subjects the word 'myth' (which is an extremely ambiguous word with a host of different meanings, values and associations) to any real critical analysis.  Secondly, there's the bibliography.  While intended to be a 'select bibliography' rather than a complete one, there are nonetheless some very odd ommissions (including pretty much everything written by Verlyn Flieger and, even more surprisingly, Judith Johnson's essential bibliography of Tolkien criticism).  Also, some of the so-called descriptive comments about the various secondary works are inaccurate and, rather surprisingly (given the scholarly and balanced tone of the rest of this book) snotty and inappropriate.  In his comments on the essays in Robert Giddings' _This Far Land_, for example, he conflates the content of two essays by different authors into one-- a big mistake in a descriptive bibliography.  Moreover, he takes a mocking tone in regards to one of the essays that offers a feminist/Freudian reading of the Shelob episode, dismissing it with a casual &quot;What one can do with language!&quot; Both the errors and tone (and these aren't the only examples here) seem grossly unprofessional and inappropriate, particularly after the balanced approachof the main bodyf the book, giving an unwelcome and vaguely bitter aftertaste to an otherwise excellent book.	2001-09-14
US	51062631	R1U9H2L360T53E	081956026X	833925789	Poetic Diction: A Study in Meaning (Wesleyan Paperback)	Books	4	33	47	N	N	A thoughtful book, but a product of its time...	_Poetic Diction_, written in 1927, is generally considered *the* masterwork of Owen Barfield, the philosopher and literary critic who was good friends with Tolkien, Lewis, and the whole Inklings crowd.  As the title suggests, the book's goal is to discuss *poetic diction*, that is to say, the manner in which the arrangement of words manages to produce aesthetic effects.  As such, this work is probably best classified as a work of literary theory.<br />In essence, Barfield's analysis revolves around two main points. First, and most interestingly, he points out that aesthetic appreciation is a phenomenon of conciousness.  His argument here is very subtle-- he's not merely asserting the rather obvious point (at least, it's been obvious since Kant's _Critique of Aesthetic Judgement_) that judgements of aesthetic beauty are subjective and individualistic.  He argues that poetry acts aesthetically precisely at that moment, and only at that moment, when it causes a reader's mind to become aware that its perception of the world has momentarily changed because of the poem.  This moment is very brief, ephemeral, and fleeting-- and, being a phenomenon of individual consciousness, is quite intangible.  Once cannot simply point to a line of poetry and say &quot;This is beautiful or poetic&quot; because of some intrinsic quality of the words-- the moment of beauty/poetry occurs instead in the minds of those who encounter it.  Consequently, an analysis of poetic diction must be enrooted in an understanding of the connection between linguistics and psychology.  <br />The second major point of Barfield's analysis is that the primary means by which the poetic arrangement of words operates (i.e. the means by which it causes the conscious mind to see the world differently and to be aware that it is seeing the world differently) is metaphor, which, as he characterizes it, is the fundamental cause of meaning-- and particularly of new meaning. The greater part of the book is devoted to the dicussion of metaphor and its connection to meaning, and the connection of both to the impact of words on human consciousness.<br />Reading this work today, nearly 75 years after it was written, I have to say that I must strongly disagree with the reviewer below who characterizes Barfield as being far ahead of his time.  This work is very much a product of its time, and that is evident in many different ways.  All of the major authorities on language, poetry, etc., whom Barfield is arguing against (especially Max Mueller) have long been wholly discredited, have been completely forgotten, or have merely become passe.  The same is true with those other authorities whom Barfield cites favorably to support his argument-- they too have long ago fallen by the wayside of scholarship.  Moreover, so many of the basic approaches that Barfield takes to this subject are unmistakeably characteristic of an earlier generation of scholarship-- his attempt to outline a metahistory of language from so-called 'primitive' times to the present for example, is something no contemporary scholar would be so naive as to do.  Even Barfield's emphasis on aesthetics as a phenomenon of consciousness is very much in the spirit of other turn-of-the-twentieth century thought (cf. Freud, Croce, Weber, DuBois, Bergson, etc.), and his discussion of the subjet has more in common with those folks than with, say, the schools of reader-response criticism that developed later on.There is also a, well, I'm not sure exactly what to call it other than a certain *genteel* quality to Barfield's prose, approach, and assumptions that, once again, smacks of an earlier era of scholarship.  <br />In fact, I should also add that in someways, it seems even a bit backward-looking for the time in which it was written.  For someone who was writing in the heydey of modernism, it's kind of noteworthy that Barfield makes no attempt to account for the radical *stylistic* and *narrative* innovations that were taking placein the literature of Pound, Eliot, Joyce, Woolf, etc., which would, I think have forced Barfield to reassess, or at least reargue his position vis-a-vis metaphor being the primary vehicle of by which poetry efffects consciousness.  Instead, he leaves them out and uses, as his primary focal point, the literature and philosophy of the Romantics: Blake, Shelley, Wordsworth, and Coleridge.<br />The book's being dated, I hasten to add, does not necessarily mean that it's is *bad* or that it's not insightful.  Freud was very much a product of his time, but his work remains brilliant and his thought can still provide profound and fresh insights even today.  So to with many other thinkers from the past, and so to it is with Barfield.  While I can't honestly say that I think contemporary literary critics (let alone researches into psycholinguistics) will gain much from a study of Barfield, I agree wholly with the reviewer below who stated that this is an especially great book for writers and for those who desire to use words and arrange words in such a way as to make an impact on other people's consciousness.	2001-09-13
US	51062631	R17L2VFIRJ5ZEO	1558491910	942264087	Theorizing about Myth	Books	3	32	32	N	N	Brief critical surveys of key theorists of myth	This book consists of ten relatively short essays on major theorists of myth from the past century or so.  Most essays are devoted to a single thinker (e.g Tylor, Jung, Campbell, Bettelheim, Blumenberg, etc.), although a few are devoted to a more general 'school' of thought (e.g. the Cambridge myth-ritualists) although there is also one that is more thematic in scope (on the mythic approach to the Grail legend), although even that one is focused on the literary critic Jessie Weston and her book _From Ritual to Romance_).<br />These essays are part general summary and part critical evaluation.  Segal's first goal here is to show what individual theorists of myth have actually had to say-- i.e. to outline what their ideas were and how they were different from those who came before them, as well to suggest the influence they had on later thinkers.  His second is to evaluate the merits and strengths of their ideas.  <br />Although I found most of the essays here to be good summaries, I do have three major complaints.  The first is that not every thinker discussed receives the same degree of critical scrutiny.  The first essay, on Tylor, for instance, consists almost solely of summary, with little evaluation--- while the essay on Bettelheim the critical evaluation takes front stage and overshadows the 'summary' aspect of the essay.  This selective uneveness in critical evaluation, it seems to me, is a bit unfair.  <br />My second complaint is that there's a good deal of repetition of content in many of the essays. The thought of Frazer, for example, is discussed briefly in the article on Tylor, is given great prominence in the article on the myth-and-ritual school, and comes up again in the discussion of Jessie Weston and the Grail legend.  And I'm not just talking about the fact that he's mentioned briefly-- each time, Segal re-introduces the basics of Fraser's ideas w/ new summaries.  This would be fine if one were reading these essays each in isolation, but if one reads through the book, one starts to find that summaries of the same thinkers appear again and again, which seems a bit pointless.<br />My third, and final criticism of this book is that Segal makes some odd content choices here.  For some reason I can't quite fathom, he devotes several paragraphs out of most essay to specifically address how the thinkers covered approach the subject of gnosticism.  While there's nothing inherently wrong with this subject, the fact remains that few, if any of these myth theorists spoke about gnosticism at great length; put otherwise, it really wasn't a major aspect of their thought,<BR>and it seems unusual that Segal makes it a touchstone of his analyses.  I suspect that this has to with gnosticism being a pet interest of Segal's (he's edited another book on the subject), which is fine, but it just seems out-of-place here.<br />All in all, I have to say that this is a worthwhile survey of the history of myth theory.  It introduces the reader to most of the key figures, to their thoughts, and their merits.  For folks who are already familiar the history of myth interpreation, there's not a lot to be learned from this-- as it really is a survey text.  Those looking for a more rigorous history of myth theory will find this disppointing but also because it tends to emphasize the trees rather than the forest-- it approaches individual thinkers and evaluates their thought as individuals, and does little to raise questions about how the study of myth-- and changes in it-- is linked a broader cultural or ideological perspective (as Bruce Lincoln's book _Theorizing Myth_ does). However, for the novice to myth studies who simply wants a good quick summary of &quot;what Frazer thought&quot;, &quot;what Jung thought&quot;, etc., with a bit of critical analysis attached, this is a decent survey work.	2001-09-13
US	51062631	R3MP6KZ6JHRFS4	0156983656	952915123	Words with Power: Being a Second Study  of "The Bible and Literature"	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Good, but not as good as _The Great Code_...	This is Frye's second book on the Bible and literature. The *and* is important-- he's not (as Robert Alter does) writing<BR>about the Bible *as* literature-- rather he's writing about how the Bible, its motifs, images, stories, and archetypes have served, and continue to serve, as an animating force of western Literature-- even literature that is not particularly relgious in subject.<br />Like all of Frye's books, _Words with Power_ begins with a restatement and refinement of Frye's 'general theory' of language and literature, examining what we mean (and what he means) by words like &quot;literature&quot;, &quot;myth&quot;, &quot;metaphor&quot;, &quot;symbol&quot;, etc. This 'introductory' section occupies the first third of the book-- which might frustrate some readers, eager to jump into the main subject matter. However, it serves as an essential contextualization for the observations that Frye makes later on. Also, what Frye has to say here is not just repetition of points he's made before (although many points will be familiar to those who've read his other works), but he expands upon certain points, clarifies others, and introduces some new observations. <br />Of particular interest here, I think, is is his discussion of what he calls the rhetorical or ideological mode of language, which exists in contradistiction to the demotic/descriptive mode of language and the conceptual/dialectical mode, as well as the imaginative/poetic mode. Frye has not generally spent much time in previous works discussing the social/political functions of language-- and it's interesting to see him devote a good deal of discussion to the subject. He also discusses at some length the idea of *kyrigma*, or *ephipany*, which takes place when language seems to operate at an almost mystical level(previously, he had called this the 'anagogic' level of language). Unfortunately, this is one of the weak spots of the book (I regard the chapter on &quot;Symbol and Spirit&quot; as the book's nadir)-- as I think Frye starts to take on the role of an instructor on how to obtain mystical experience through reading, and forget that he's supposed to be a scholarly analyzing various modes of language. (I'm reminded of Joseph Campbell's later works, where he starts to act more like a prophet of a mythic message-- i.e. &quot;Follow your bliss&quot;, and less like a scholar of comparative mythology.)<br />After this lengthy introduction, Frye gets into the 'meat' of his subject, which is an analysis of how four central motifs<BR>of the bible are also archetypal touchstones throughout western literature. Those four motifs are: the mountain, the garden, the cave, and the furnace. As always, Frye notes that these motifs tend to be situated within a mythically opposed 'higher world' (associated with the divine and representative of human desire) and a 'lower world' (associated with the demonic and representative of human anxiety), and consequently touch on matters of cosmology as well as morality. This kind of archetypal analysis is what Frye does best, and his chapter on the mountain (which is to be associated with mythic themes of human ascent to a higher world and divine descent to the world of human experience)is the book's strongest. He also discusses other images/motifs that serve the same function in the bible and other literature-- including ladders, towers, trees, etc.<BR>As one might imagine, the chapter on the cave discusses motifs of human (or divine descent) to a lower world and then reemergence from it. The chapter on the garden discusses motifs of nature, while that of the furnace, those of human technology. Frye has touched on all of these ideas before, of course, but his thoughts on them are outlined very clear and precisely here, and he shows very well the persistence of these biblical/mythical motifs in western literature.<br />When all's said and done, this is a worthy read for those who like Frye's approach to literature-- especially those who appreciated _The Great Code_, his first work on the Bible. Nevertheless, I can't honestly say it's his best book-- or even his most insightful. I also don't think I'd recommend it as an introduction to Frye's approach to literary theory-- I'd say one should start with _An Anatomy of Criticism_ or _The Great Code_ instead (or, for much more popularizing approach, _The Educated Imagination_).	2001-09-11
US	51062631	R6F4XIST6E3DN	1887726047	777800068	Proceedings of the J.R.R. Tolkien Centenary Conference, 1992: Proceedings of the Conference Held at Keble College, Oxford, England, 17Th-24th August ... Birth of Conference (myth (Mythlore Series)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	A wide variety of papers from a conference on Tolkien	This is not, as the reviewer below suggests, a book for &quot;die-hard fans&quot;. Rather, it is a book for Tolkien *scholars*. Most Tolkien scholars, of course, are fans-- and a good number of fans are also scholars-- but the two sets are not identical.<BR>Essentially, this book consists of the proceedings of (i.e. the papers presented at) the 1992 Conference on Tolkien that took place at Oxford on the 100th anniversary of his birth. It comprises several dozen short papers on a variety of Tolkien related subjects. The papers are divided into ten major sections: 1. Recollection and Remembrance, 2. Sources and Influence, 3. The Lord of the Rings, 4. The Silmarillion, 5. Linguistics and Lexicography, 6. Response and Reaction, 7. Tolkien Studies, 8. Middle-Earth Studies, 9. The Inklings, 10. Flights of Fancy. Some sections are much longer than others, and a few papers that were presented are not included because no written copy was submitted.<br />Of the various papers, a few are by renknowned scholars of Tolkien-- philologist Tom Shippey, bibliographer Wayne Hammond, literary scholar Verlyn Flieger, etc. There are also a few other 'surprises' by folks who are clearly among the up-and-coming crop of new Tolkien scholars. There is, however, some non-scholarly material mixed in here. Most of really kooky stuff is in the last section, butto be honest, quite a few of the purportedly scholarly articles in the other sections have an amateurish character to them-- both in style and substance (And, of course, the reminscences in part 1 aren't especially scholarly themselves... although they are still valuable to the Tolkien scholar for their anecdotal/historical value)<BR>Of the various papers here, the most successful are those in the sections on Sources and Influences and on Linguistics. Of these, the most insightful are Chris Seeman's article on Tolkien's relation to, and reconceptualization of Romantic literary theory (a very astute piece of intellectual history) and T.A.Shippey's discussion of Tolkien and the Gawain-poet (i.e. the author of &quot;Sir Gawain and the Green Knight&quot;). Sadly, those works which address Tolkien's fiction directly-- i.e. those in the sections on the Lord of the Rings and Silmarillion sections-- tend to be on the weaker side., while those in the rather vaguely defined sections (i.e. &quot;Tolkien Studies&quot; &amp; &quot;Middle-Earth Studies&quot;)are very weak indeed. The two exceptions to this are Hammond's &quot;Tolkien and the Critics&quot; (which perhaps ought to be called &quot;Tolkien and the Reviewers&quot; since he's really speaking about reviews that appeared in newspapers), and Anders Stenstrom's &quot;A Mythology? For England?&quot; (a careful piece of analysis that shows that Tolkien never appears to have really used the phrase 'mythology for England' to describe his fiction, but rather indicates that this overused catchphrase seems to be the result of Humprey Carpenter's conflation of some other references). A big disappointment here, though, is Shippey's paper on &quot;Tolkien as Post-War Author&quot;, which just seems somewhat thin and vague-- a real surprise considering the strength of his other article here and his book _The Road to Middle-Earth_. <br />This conference took place nearly ten years before the time I write this review-- but it does reveal several things about the state of Tolkien studies then and now. The first of these is that Tolkien scholarship is still strongly rooted (peraps too strongly?) in a biographical approach. As one looks at the footnotes in this volume, one discovers reference after reference to Tolkien's letters, to Carpenter's biography, and to works like &quot;On Fairy Stories&quot;, in which Tolkien outlines his theories of literature. There are very few footnotes for references to The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings and The Silmarillion. (Also, I think it is no accident that those sections on LotR and the Silmarillion happen to be the shortest and the weakest ones in the book-- or that there is no section devoted to _The Hobbit_ at all!_) This seems to me to be a bit of a shame-- as Tolkien's literary legacy is far more important and profound than his thoughts on philology or his theories of authorship, or his trip to Holland... and it also seems to me that more effort ought to be spend discussing Tolkien's fiction on its own terms, as works that can stand on their own, without such an overwhelming focus on matters of authorial intent and self-interpretation.<BR>When all's said and done, this is certainly a worthwhile book for the Tolkien scholar-- or a research library-- to acquire. Not everything in it will be equally useful, but it's certainly better than a lot of other collections of Tolkien scholarship.	2001-09-07
US	51062631	R39MZWR2GU5IHD	9990307873	589342645	J.R.R. Tolkien: This Far Land	Books	4	11	13	N	N	One of the few worthwhile books of Tolkien criticism	There's a lot of poor Tolkien criticism out there-- in fact, most of it falls into that category. This book, a collection of articles edited by Robert Giddings, is one of the few exceptions.<br />Of the articles included here, the two most insightful are &quot;A Structuralist's Guide to Middle-Earth&quot; and &quot;'No Sex Please, We're Hobbits': The Construction of Feminine Sexuality in The Lord of the Rings&quot;. The former, while written in a very annoying, manner (essentially an alphabetical list of various motifs in Tolkien's fiction, with a brief summary of their meaning and function within _The Lord of the Rings_) nonethless raises some intriguing issues that most Tolkien scholars and pseudo-scholars, either avoid or dismiss (e.g. the way Tolkien's fiction presents issues of race). I'm not sure exactly what's supposed to be 'structuralist' about this article (I certainly don't see any sign of influence of Levi-Strauss, or Jakobson, or Barthes...), and I recognize that it's treatment of every issue is rather superficial-- but it does at least raise some questions that other writers on Tolkien have been too timid to address.<br />The 'No Sex Please, We're Hobbits' has the same strengths. It raises the question of sexuality in Tolkien's fiction-- and particularly the question of why there's so little of it present. This is another subject about which most Tolkien<BR>fans &amp; scholars shy away from or become defensive about-- but its an important issue, and one well worth scholarly attention. The most intriguing part of this article is its claim that, of all the female character in LotR, only the fearful spider-monster Shelob (who is constantly referred to as a 'she') is at all sexualized-- albeit only incidentally and metaphorically, through imagery, wordplay, and the archetypal motifs symbols. The author then analyzes the Shelob chapter in detail, noting its use of a kind of perverse wedding-night imagery throughout, and the physical description of the battle between Sam and Shelob as a kind of 'inverted rape' in which a female predator seeks out a male victim, but is, in turn, the one who is violated. This sounds like astretch at first, and there are some implausible Freudian interpretations of a few details to be sure-- and I'm skeptical as to just how much in agreement with her I am. Nonetheless, this article makes ample use of enough quotations from the text that show quite compellingly that there *is* something very odd going on this chapter-- and that whatever it is, it does have some rather vague and disturbing sexual overtones (probably unconscious ones on Tolkien's part, I'd wager). <br />These essays (and the others in the volume) have their faults to be sure-- and I wouldn't call any of them great Nevertheless, I feel they are among the better pieces of Tolkien criticism out there because (1) they address subjects that other folks who've written on Tolkien shy away from, (2) they raise interesting points about those subjects and suggest further questions to be asked, and (3), they're not nearly so &quot;pious&quot; in their approach to Tolkien and his works. This last point (#3), I think, is an especial problem with Tolkien scholarship, which, being driven primarily by fans who idolize Tolkien, tends to be overly rooted in Tolkien's own worldview and which tends to scorn any interpretations that Tolkien himself would not have approved of (*especially* when it comes to hot-button topics like race and sex!). Consequently, I find the essays in _This Far Land_, and especially the two I mentioned, to be a welcome breath of fresh air, full of spirit and originality, in a field (Tolkien studies) that so sorely needs an infusion of fresh perspectives and ideas. Because of that, I'm willing to overlook their faults.	2001-09-07
US	51062631	RL1BB4NG6TNCD	0691069999	555267553	Anatomy of Criticism: Four Essays	Books	5	110	113	N	N	Most important work of literary theory in the 20th century	Whether you agree with him or not, there's no denying that Northrop Frye is the most important literary critic from North America-- and quite probably the most influential English- language critic of the 20th-century.  His influence, I should add, is not limited to literary scholarship, but has been felt in other disciplines as well (e.g. Hayden White's classic historiographical study &quot;Metahistory&quot;).<br />Although he's written many books on a host of specific subjects, &quot;An Anatomy of Criticism&quot; is Frye's magnum opus.  In it, he outlines a general theory of literature-- what it is, how it is structured, and how it &quot;works&quot;.  These questions are answered in the volumes four essays, each of which approaches the subject from a different theoretical perspective: (1) a theory of modes&quot;, (2) a &quot;theory of symbols&quot;, (3) a &quot;theory of myths&quot;, and (4) a &quot;theory of genres&quot;.  Although these theories are not 100% unified into a larger structure, they are interrelated and complementary-- and, taken together, they do form what I believe can be called a (multifacted) &quot;general theory of literature&quot;.<br />The book begins with a &quot;Polemical Introduction&quot;.  Here, Frye makes an argument that is at once simple and profound.  For too long, he claims, literary criticism has revolved primarily around matters of taste, with critics pronouncing judgement on the relative merits of different authors and works.  Frye believes that this has prevented literary criticism from really coming into its own as a serious scholarly activity-- and he wants to make literary scholarship a genuinely scholarly subject. The way to do this, he argues, is by eschewing any criticism whose goal is to attribute &quot;merit&quot; or &quot;value&quot; to works-- to say that they are good or bad.  Instead, the true literary scholar needs to see himself as a scientist and to survey the field of literature as a whole, taking it on its own terms, and describing what seem to be the basic principles, structures, and unstated &quot;laws&quot; governing it.  An important point here (and one that I think is especially compelling) is that Frye insists that literary scholarship needs to derive its understanding of literature from literature itself-- and not from other fields like psychoanalysis (e.g. Freudian/Jungian interpretations), from history (biograhical criticism), politics (Marxist criticism), etc. &quot;An Anatomy of Criticism&quot;, Frye states, is his attempt to do just that-- to derive a theory of literature (or rather four complementary theories of literature) from literature itself, taking into account that literature, understood broadly, is work consisting primary of words, arranged in such a way as to create structures such as we call plots, characters, images, themes, etc.  <br />In the first essay, the theory of modes, Frye articulates a theory of literature in terms of its level of realism, noting that this can exist in several degrees, which Frye expresses in terms of characters' relation of power to ordinary people and to the world.  On the one extreme, we have myth, with gods who are nearly omnipotent, and on the other irony, with characters who are helpless and ineffectual.  This is a short essay, and very readable, but is not as insightful as it could have been, if Frye had expanded it to discuss the mimetic level of the &quot;world&quot; in which the character exists as well.  <br />The second essay is Frye's theory of symbols.  It is, by far, the densest and most complicated of the four essays.  It also has the most jargon, using lots of terms borrowed from Aristotelian and medieval criticism.  Nonetheless, it is worth<BR>reading, as Frye wrestles at length with question of what a symbol is, particularly within the context of literature.  He also outlines the existence and workings of 5 different levels on which literary symbols work, raning from the literal (where individual words simply symbolize their mundane meanings) to the anagogic, which is an almost mystical level of symbolization-- a level that is more typically reserved for works of perceived religious or spiritually import (although Frye seems like he wants to acknowledge the possibility tha any work's symbols can be read on any of the five levels of symbolization).<br />The third essay is the &quot;theory of myths&quot;.  This is also the longest, and probably the most important essay here.  Here, Frye outlines his theory that there are essentially four main plots, or &quot;mythoi&quot; (to use the Greek word for &quot;plots&quot;) that literature uses-- comedy, romance, tragedy, and irony.  Moreover, he notes, the various symbols, motifs, characters, and events that appear in all literary works can be understood within the context of a mythical opposition between a divine, ideal world (which he calls the &quot;apocalyptic&quot;) and a demonic, nightmare world (which he calls &quot;demonic).  Contrary to what some folks believe, Frye does *not* use this to claim that literature is essentially &quot;derived&quot; from myths-- rather, he insists that those tales that we call myths simply present these structures in their clearest, baldest, most direct forms.  In other forms of literature, the same structures exist, but they are displaced, toned down, or made incidental so as to fit into our basic canon of plausibility. <br />The fourth essay, the theory of genres, is perhaps the least successful of the four.  Essentially, Frye seeks here to outline the difference among different types of literature (dramatic, lyric, epic, etc.) in terms of its performative aspect.<br />When all's said and done, it has to be said that Frye's book (now approx. 50 years old), is hardly the alpha and omega of literary criticism.  Like all great books, it asks as many questions as it answers-- and like all general theories, it leaves the reader wondering whether it actually works for <BR>all/most specific cases. And of course, there are many questions that aren't even discussed-- particularly about the world of non-western literature.  Additionally, one wonders whether or not Frye's general theory can be expanded to include such basic aspects of literary interest as &quot;style&quot; and whether there is a place at all for biographical criticism within his<BR>vision of what literary science could be.  And of course, to someone reading this book today (a half-century after it was written), certain aspects of his argument and terminology may seem a bit outdated.  Nonetheless, this is truly a milestone in literary theory and it is a standard by which other works have to be measured.  If you haven't read this, I heartily recommend you do-- it may change the way you view literature as whole (for the better!).  However, be warned-- this occasionally does get to be tough going (particularly essay 2).  Those seeking a more 'accessible' version of Frye's ideas might turn to &quot;The Educated Imagination&quot;-- which waters them down a *lot* and leaves out a lot of the rigor and nuance-- but is still a passable introduction to the subject.	2001-09-04
US	51062631	R3Q4561YQX23TT	0006281206	489387845	Tolkien: A Celebration	Books	2	25	46	N	N	Nothing new to say....	Tolkien scholarship, on the whole, tends to be quite weak.    There's a lot of reasons for that, but this isn't really the place to go into them.  However, I will say that this collection of essays is no exception to the rule.   &quot;Tolkien: A Celebration&quot; consists of 15 essays by different authors, edited by Joseph Pearce (author of another mediocre book on Tolkien).  For the most part, the essays are non-scholarly-- they are more like short, off-the-cuff, reflections than serious scholarly analysis.<br />Most of the essays deal in some way with the &quot;religious&quot; aspects of Tolkien's fiction-- and most of those approach it from a specifically Roman Catholic persepctive.  This is a legitimate subject to write about, of course, but it's been done to death before (and better!) by Carpenter, by Kocher, by Kilby, by Flieger, and by a host of other critics.  These essays really don't add anything new to the body of Tolkien scholarship-- no new ideas, no new interpretations, no new evidence.<br />The same is true for most of the non-religious-themed essays as well.  Patrick Curry's &quot;Modernity in Middle-Earth&quot;, for example, is basically a six-page summary of his own book on the subject, while Elwin Fairburn's &quot;A Mythology for England&quot; is essentially a recap of points that have been made again and again and again by previous scholars (especially Carpenter, and even more Jane Chance who wrote a whole book called &quot;Tolkien's Art: A Mythology for England&quot;).<br />In truth, the only two items of genuine interest here are the &quot;personal reminscences&quot; by George Sayer and Walter Hooper, who talk abou their experiences meeting Tolkien, working with him, etc.,  They're not rigorous scholarship,<BR>nor do they present a radically different picture of the man than Grotta-Kurska's and Carpenter's biographies draw, but they do offer up a few worthy anecdotes.  Still, they're hardly essential reading for either the Tolkien scholar or fan.<br />This isn't, by far, the wost book on Tolkien ever published, but it's not one of the better ones-- and it really doesn't have anything new to add to the critical legacy of Tolkien scholarship.	2001-09-03
US	51062631	R2Y0NS0SA26H9H	0801853958	39239259	Greek Mythology: An Introduction	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Outstanding historical approach to Greek Myth	I'm a bit puzzled by the previous review's claim that this book does not spend much time discussing different approaches to mythology.  That's what the first two chapters of  this book are all about!.  Graf first provides a historical discussion of &quot;myth&quot;, &quot;mythology&quot;, and their meanings from ancient Greece up throught the end of the 19th century.  The second chapter discusses the various approaches to myth that have been dominant in the 20th century-- the myth-and-ritual school, psychoanlalysis, structuralism, etc.  For each of these, Graf provides both a discussion of the various approaches, as well as a critical discussion of their merits and shortcomings.  (Perhaps the previous reviewer skipped these chapters?)<br />The remaining chapters of the book offer up a kind of intellectual and cultural history of Greek mythology from the Mycenean Age to the late Hellenistic era, discusing how the various stories that make up what we call &quot;Greek Mythology&quot;<br />were various understood, approached, told, retold, changed, transformed valued, revalued, etc., from approximately 1200 BC through the Roman era.  One chapter deals with Homer, Hesiod, and the early poetic traditions.  Another deals with the religious/ritualistic ue of myth, another with tragedy, another with history, and yet another with late &quot;mythography&quot; and criticism.<br />All in all, I'd say this is an excellent introduction to the study of Greek mythology within the historical, cultural, and literary context in which its stories emerged, were established, and were later fixed.  Please be aware, however, that it is not a mere &quot;handbook&quot; (a la Edith Hamilton or the New Larousse Handbook of Mythology).  Rather it is an scholarly analysis into the historical cultural function(s) of myth in ancient Greece-- but one which is presented on a general, survey level,.... so that it can easily be read and appreciated by<br />non-scholars.	2001-09-03
US	51062631	R2KCKEI3CQONWN	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	3	3	8	N	N	A great book for teenagers... but it doesn't age well	I remember reading &quot;Anthem&quot; for the first time when I was fourteen. I loved it-- both for being quick, simple, digestible, and entertaining heroic story, and for being a story with a message that I, in that rebellious self-centered phase we *all* go through as teenagers, really wanted to hear-- namely that I ought to regard my own wishes, desires, thoughts, and values as superior to those of everyone else, and that anyone who sought to restrict me, to tell me what to do, how to behave, etc., was an evil tyrant. That message is a very powerful one for adolescents who are just coming to form their own sense of self and who are starting to question the legitimacy of authority (parental, educational, andotherwise). It is, I think, of especial appeal to middle-class adolescents (like I was) who have led comfortable enough lives that they haven't ever really had to take on any truly meaningful responsbilities of their own-- either for their families or anyone else. I recently re-read the book and found that the story is still enjoyable as a story-- but that message that can be so appealing, so powerful, and so self-affirming to teenagers-- i.e. &quot;I'm the most important thing in the world, and to hell with everyone who tries to tell me what to do&quot; doesn't really hold up in the face of the real, practical, experience of the world that one gains in adult life. The fact of the matter is that life isn't simply a black-and-white contrast between heroic individuals and nameless, faceless, bureaucratic drones who try to crush their individuality in the name of some vaguely defined social good. Life involves people, working both individually and collectively, trying to accomplish things that they need to do to stay alive and in an attempt to achieve some sort of happiness in spite of the complex, changing, and frustrating world that human beings have always lived in and will always live in. Only rarely do the real conflicts in life revolve around a conflict between &quot;the individual&quot; vs. some abstract entity called &quot;society&quot;-- and that's the real weakness with Rand's message-- both in &quot;Anthem&quot; and elsewhere. She can convey her point only by exaggeration to ridiculous degrees, between the good noble heroic individual and the indistict amorphous entity that she calls &quot;society&quot; (or the caricatures of those who purport to be speaking for it). The fact of the matter is that our lives primarily revolve around friendships, familial relationships, lovers, colleagues, partners, teammates, etc.-- not &quot;society&quot; as some abstract conception, and even when we participate in larger collective organizations, it is because we have a vested interest in them. &quot;Anthem&quot;, like Rand's other fiction&quot; simply does not-- and probably cannot-- address the complex reality of real tensions and conflicts between people (or among groups of people). For her, everything must boil down to the simplistic parellel between &quot;the individual&quot; (taken as an abstraction) and society (taken as an abstraction). Of course, this criticism is one that I think Rand would herself agree with. I think she'd say that her fiction is designed to lead the reader to think philosophically-- abstractly, about individualism vs. collectivism as approaches to life. To that, however, I'd respond (philosophically)that the problem there is the assumption that individualism and collectiveism can only be understood in terms of &quot;vs.&quot;... as philosophers from Hegel on have pointed out in their writings about intersubjectivity. Then again, this takes us somewhaat away from &quot;Anthem&quot;, so I'll leave it at that... Anyway, when all's said and done I've got to say that &quot;Anthem&quot; is still a fine read, and it's one that I thing adolescents and teenagers will really take to. Really, if there were one book that deserved to be considered the &quot;bible of teenage rebellion&quot;, it would be &quot;Anthem&quot;. However, as they get older, it's also one that most of them will come to grow out of, as they come to realize that life really just isn't as simple as this....	2001-08-27
US	51062631	R2NQ04XTZ1VF0Z	0674796764	623372509	The Secular Scripture: A Study of the Structure of Romance (The Charles Eliot Norton Lectures)	Books	3	32	34	N	N	Not Frye's best book	Northrop Frye is probably *the* most important and most influential English-language literary critic of the 20th century-- and certainly the most important one to come from North America. _The Secular Scripture_, however, is not one of his better-known books, and that's probably for the best, as it's one of his weaker efforts. Thebook consists of six chapters, which were originally delivered as lectures during a 'special guest' stint he did at Harvard/Radcliffe a few decades back. The ostensible subject of these lectures (and, by extension, this book) is the literary genre of romance. However, like all of Frye's books, the specific topic is discussed within the context of Frye's theory of literature in general. Thus, _The Secular Scripture_ introduces the reader to Frye's general theories, such as the idea that literature possesses the same structure as myth, that there are essentially four main mythoi or plots of literature (comedy, romance, tragedy, and irony), that recurrent literary motifs/images tend to be structured around the mythic opposition of an ideally imagined world and a nightmarish demonic one, and that the only real difference between &quot;realistic&quot; literature and &quot;fantastic literature) is that the mythic elements in the latter are most obvious and are presented with little narrative concealment, whereas those in the former tend to be displaced, or otherwise altered so as to be fitted into a context of &quot;plausibility&quot;. It is within the context of these general ideas about literature that Frye enumerates what he sees as being the particular character of romance. For those unfamiliar with Frye's terminology, &quot;romance&quot; here does not refer to the kind of genre fiction that is typically marketed as romance-- i.e. the classic Harlequin romance or'bodice-ripper' tale. Or rather, it does not refer *only* (or even primarily) to such stories. Frye uses &quot;romance&quot; to describe a general type of story pattern-- one that usually involves a quest-- and which results in the hero or heroine enduring much suffering, difficulty, and adventure before finally attaining his/her goal (which may or may not even have been known to him/her earlier on). It can be a grand 'quest' in the sense of the medieval romances centered around knights (e.g. the quest for the Holy Grail. It may be a kind of spiritual fulfillment, realization, or redemption-- as in Apuleius's _The Golden Ass_ or in many narratives of the lives of saints. Or it be a quest for knowledge/solutions to some problem (most detective stories are romances, Frye notes, as are many spy stories). Most works in the genres of &quot;fantasy&quot; and &quot;science-fiction&quot; fall into this category as well. And yes, it can be a quest for &quot;true love&quot; or &quot;erotic fulfillment&quot; as in the case of the dimestore bodice-rippers that are called romances. And, of course, it can also be applied to a whole host of other works of literature-- novels, poems, plays, etc., including allegorical literature like _A Pilgrim's Progress_ and _The Faerie Queen_. What defines romance, in Frye's schema, is not the object of the quest (or still less contemporary marketing terms like &quot;mystery&quot;, &quot;fantasy&quot;, &quot;sci-fi&quot;, or &quot;romance&quot;), but the overall structure and pattern of the narrative. In spite of its many variations (which have their own particular subconventions), romance as a whole, in all its forms, has an overall story pattern and structure that is unified, recognizable, and quite distict from the three other 'mythoi' of literature: comedy, tragedy, and irony. So, what does Frye actually have to say about romance in _The Secular Scripture_? Well, for the most part, the book is concerned with outlining the structural conventions of romance as a whole-- and specifically in outlining what it's features are and what makes it different from other types of narrative structures (i.e. why is it a romance and nota comedy). This mis most evident in the three 'main' chapters that deal specifically with the substance/structure of the form-- &quot;Heroes and Heroines of Romance&quot;, &quot;Themes of Descent&quot; and &quot;Themes of Ascent&quot;. Unfortunately, those are also the weakest chapters. The main reason for this, I think, is that Frye has already outlined his basic intellectual schema of what romance is, how it is structured, etc., by those chapters-- and he ends up filling them with many paraphrased illustrations to prove his points, in a whole host of variations and subvarations. Don't get me wrong-- it's good that he backs up his theoretical argument with textual illustrations-- but there's something about these chapters that seems kind of &quot;cyclopedic&quot;, like it's just a list of illustration after illustration ad nauseam. Put briefly, I just don't think that those specific chapters *add* anything really to his argument any more than 1-2 well chosen illustrations could have done. His concluding chapter, is also somewhat weak-- in it, he essentially abandons the subject of romance and instead speaks about the merits of literary study and education as a means for coming to understand the &quot;social mythologies&quot; that govern our own art, assumptions, prejudices, etc. in real life. While I agree with him on this point, it's an inappropriate conclusion to a book on *romance*-- and it's a point he makes much better in &quot;The Educated Imagination&quot;. All in all, I'd have to say that this book is worth reading if you've already read Frye's classic _The Anatomy of Criticism_ (which discusses romance at good length), but want further exposition-- and maybe a bit more contextualization or illustration. (Or, if you found _Anatomy_ a bit dense, the first chapter of _Secular Scripture_ is a good summary of the *general* viewpoint that Frye outlines in _Anatomy_. It also has an excellent discussion of what &quot;myth&quot; is, and how the term should be understood in a literary context). However, it's not Frye's best-- and it shouldn't be the first work by him you encounter. If your looking for his masterwork, read _Anatomy of Criticism_ which is dense, but immensely rewarding. Or, if you're looking for something more accessible, read _The Educated Imagination_ first. Or even read his specific studies of the Bible, Blake, Shakespeare, etc. It's not that this book is bad, mind you-- but it just isn't his best work.a comedy). This mis most evident in the three 'main' chapters that deal specifically with the substance/structure of the form-- &quot;Heroes and Heroines of Romance&quot;, &quot;Themes of Descent&quot; and &quot;Themes of Ascent&quot;. Unfortunately, those are also the weakest chapters. The main reason for this, I think, is that Frye has already outlined his basic intellectual schema of what romance is, how it is structured, etc., by those chapters-- and he ends up filling them with many paraphrased illustrations to prove his points, in a whole host of variations and subvarations. Don't get me wrong-- it's good that he backs up his theoretical argument with textual illustrations-- but there's something about these chapters that seems kind of &quot;cyclopedic&quot;, like it's just a list of illustration after illustration ad nauseam. Put briefly, I just don't think that those specific chapters *add* anything really to his argument any more than 1-2 well chosen illustrations could have done. His concluding chapter, is also somewhat weak-- in it, he essentially abandons the subject of romance and instead speaks about the merits of literary study and education as a means for coming to understand the &quot;social mythologies&quot; that govern our own art, assumptions, prejudices, etc. in real life. While I agree with him on this point, it's an inappropriate conclusion to a book on *romance*-- and it's a point he makes much better in &quot;The Educated Imagination&quot;. All in all, I'd have to say that this book is worth reading if you've already read Frye's classic _The Anatomy of Criticism_ (which discusses romance at good length), but want further exposition-- and maybe a bit more contextualization or illustration. (Or, if you found _Anatomy_ a bit dense, the first chapter of _Secular Scripture_ is a good summary of the *general* viewpoint that Frye outlines in _Anatomy_. It also has an excellent discussion of what &quot;myth&quot; is, and how the term should be understood in a literary context). However, it's not Frye's best-- and it shouldn't be the first work by him you encounter. If your looking for his masterwork, read _Anatomy of Criticism_ which is dense, but immensely rewarding. Or, if you're looking for something more accessible, read _The Educated Imagination_ first. Or even read his specific studies of the Bible, Blake, Shakespeare, etc. It's not that this book is bad, mind you-- but it just isn't his best work.	2001-08-27
US	51062631	R3TL4CJY44QWZZ	0817310061	856239095	Mythography: The Study of Myths and Rituals	Books	2	28	34	N	N	Some good content, but style/organization is appalling!	Doty's book is a perfect example of what happens when academics are more concerned with trying to be appear hip and clever than with conveying substance.  Doty is clearly extremely knowledgeable about different approaches to mythology and different theories of myth-- and he's clearly spent a lot of time wrestling with them, digesting them, etc., to come up with his own approach to writing about myth. And, when he talks about myth per se, he occasionally has some insightful comments to make.  However, these insights are scattered throughout the book in a somewhat disorganized fashion, mixed in with a lot of pointless sidetracks, a good deal of personal reminiscence too many contrived references to pop culture.  (Not that there's anything wrong with discussing pop culture in a book on myth-- Barthes does so very effectively in his &quot;Mythologies&quot;.  However, Doty's are forced, contrived, and cloying.  Unlike Barthes, who takes, say, wrestling as something that can be studied as a kind of popular mythology, Doty simply seems to mine pop culture for metaphors-- and these metaphors usually end up being forced and cloying, like the &quot;Rock around the Clock&quot; chapter title discussed by the previous reviewer.  Rarely (if ever) do they actually illustrate or illuminate any of Doty's points in a meaningful way-- really, they seem to be thrown in merely to provide proof that Doty's not a &quot;stuffy&quot; academic, but is womeone who's hip and with it.  The same holds true, by the way, about his chapters and appendix sections on myth and the internet.  Not much substance there.... mostly a bunch of technie name-dropping (not of actual people but of cyber-references) to show how trendy he is.)   I'm sure some non-scholars will find that Doty's prose is more immediately accessible than a lot of the more densely-written, jargon-laden, academic texts on the subject of myth, but I'm not sure they'll actually learn anything more it.  <br />Still, if one is willing toput up with all the dross, there are some genuine insights to be had from &quot;Mythography&quot;.  Foremost among these, I think, is Doty's attempt at a comprehensive definition of myth.  For too long, professional mythologists have been adopting definitions of myth that are either so broad as to include conceivably anything (a criticism that can be made of Barthes, certainly) or so timorous, qualified, and limited as to be almost useless.  Doty seeks to provide a &quot;polyphasic&quot; definition of myth (the &quot;polyphasic&quot; is just a meaningless but trendy-sounding buzzword that links together 17 basic qualities of myths in a (more or less) unitary definition.  He then goes on to explain each of those 17 basic qualities.  The glossary he provides at the end includes short but useful sound bite definitions of some of the jaw-cracking neologisms used by professional mythologiests-- words like &quot;mythos&quot;, &quot;mythologem&quot;, etc.  (Neither of these items is perfect, mind you, nor unquestionable but they are at least somewhat useful). Many of Doty's observations about how we should conceive of myth, in general, are also useful. <br />All in all, this is a book that probably ought to be read by anyone seriously interested in keeping abreast in thought about mythology.  However, it may not be a book that you get a lot out of of unless you've got the stamina to wade through all of the cutesy pop culture refs and pseudo-postmodern phrasings and the ability to separate the few kernels of wheat from the a whole lot of chaff...	2001-08-17
US	51062631	RIXYZPUE78TKB	0253200881	315307926	The Educated Imagination (Midland Books: No. 8)	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Very accessible and insightful	Northrop Frye is probably *the* most important English-language literary critic of the 20th century.  &quot;The Educated Imagination&quot; is a series of six short essays based on talks/lectures he gave on Canadian radio.  His focus here is slightly different than many of his other works (like the classic study &quot;An Anatomy of Criticism&quot;.  He begins by posing some very basic questions that tend to be taken for granted in more scholarly works-- questions like &quot;What IS literature?&quot;, &quot;How is literature different from other types of writing?&quot; &quot;What value is there in reading/studying literature?&quot;  &quot;How should literature be taught in schools?&quot; etc. In the course of answering these questions, Frye introduces the reader to his general theory of literature and literary criticism.  Throughout the book, his style, tone, vocabulary, and approach are extremely accessible and &quot;reader-friendly&quot;.  All and all, this isn't as through, as rigorous, or a intelletually rich a book as some of Fryes more scholarly work (e.g. &quot;An Anatomy of Criticism&quot;, &quot;The Great Code&quot;, &quot;Fearful Symmetry&quot;, etc.), but it's an excellent and accessible introduction to his view of literature in general-- and as to why humans create and value it.	2001-08-16
US	51062631	R21IO0UV6CG6JG	0312277067	291103337	The Catiline Conspiracy (SPQR II)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Great Roman-era mystery finally back in print!	At long last, SPQR II: The Catiline Conspiracy is back in print--in a nice trade paperback edition.  (The original release, from about a decade ago was a pocket-sized mass-market edition, with a rather tacky cover).<br />The basic plot of the story is that Decius Caecilius Metellus, young scion of a patrician line, in the course of his duties as quaestor (a temporary public office), discovers a number of signs that lead him to believe that some serious trouble is afoot-- caches of weapons hidden away in unused rooms at the temple of Saturn being only the first of them.  <br />Eventually, he discovers the existence of an organized plot, led by the young noble Cataline, to overthrow the government of Rome. The only way to stop this plot, however, is to learn more of it-- which means pretending to join the conspiracy.  But the price of admission is that he must kill one of his most trusted friends!<br />All in all, this is a rollicking good, high-action historical mystery.  Like the mysteries of Steven Saylor, it's strongly rooted in actual history-- there was, after all, a real Cataline, who did indeed lead a plot to overthrow the Republic.  He, his co-conspirators-- and many of the other characters with whom Decius interacts-- are real.  In terms of its 'historicity', it's worth noting that Roberts' take on Cataline is very traditional in that he basically presents him as a spoiled, rotten, corrupt, brattish nobleman.  This is, of course, how Cataline was portrayed by his enemies (e.g. Cicero), who-- due to the fact that history is written by the winners-- have tended to be well-represented in surviving documents.  This is quite a different presentation of Catalina than Steven Saylor gives in his own mystery novel on the same subject, _Catalina's Riddle_, which presents Catalina more as a well-meaning, attractive, if somewhat naive populist.  It's quite interesting to see the contrast, and those who enjoyed one book should also read the other-- just to see a different take on things.<br />In terms of the writing itself-- Maddox is quite fluid and engaging... and occasionally quite witty.  His style is very different from Steven Saylor's, as is his detective (Decius is an up-and-coming young patrician actively involved in politics, as opposed to a philosophically-oriented plebian)-- but I'd say Saylor fans would still enjoy this book a lot, as would anyone who enjoys really good historical fiction-- particularly intrigues and mysteries-- set in or about ancient Rome.	2001-07-27
US	51062631	R1JBW9LAIT9HII	0231118570	116251133	Gender and the Politics of History	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Foundational Work in Gender History	Joan Scott's &quot;Gender and the Politics of History&quot; is one of the landmark books in the field of gender history.  What is gender history, you ask?  To a large degree, that's a question this book is trying to answer.  This book can be regarded as an explanation of *what* gender history is (as Scott defines it, at any rate), why it's important, and how it can be done.<br />Essentially, the book is a set of collected essays organized around the idea of &quot;gender and the politics of history&quot;.  The first few essays are polemical/theoretical-- and in them, Scott puts forth her argument as to what gender is and why it's an important category of historical analysis.  In many ways, these are the most important essays in this volume-- and I *highly* recommend them as a primer to folks who are interested in learning more about why historians are now talking about &quot;gender&quot;.  In a nutshell, Scott argues that that one of the most fundamenal ways in which people, in all times and plaes, have organized their intellectual/cultural/political world has been through the use of gender-- and that historians should treat gender as a fundamental category of historical analysis-- along with class, nationality, etc.  In making this argument, Scott carefully distinguishes between what she calls &quot;gender&quot; (i.e. by which she means the network of arbitrary and socially constructed meanings, ideas, and assumptions that are attributed to masculinity and feminity *and* the way in which these meanings are deployed in everyday life and discourse) and mere &quot;sex&quot; (mere biological/anatomical distinction between men and women).  This is subtle point, but it's an essential one-- and it has many important implications for Scott's view of gender history.  Of especial note, it means that she understands writing about the history of gender to be a specific kind of intellectual/cultural history--  she is *not* talking about merely writing the social history of women.  For her, gender is an idea that gets used in discourse because it involves very basic, and highly value-laden assumptions-- and the task of the gender historian is to understand *how* and *why* it has been used and changed.  Scott thus sharply distinguishes what she would call &quot;gender history&quot; from the so-called &quot;women's history&quot; that was pioneered back in the 70s (whose main emphasis was to recount how women had been dominated and abused in the past and to correct the errors of previous historians who had ignored the contributions and experiences of women).  <br />The remainder of the essays fall into three groups.  One pair of essays are historiographical-- they are methodological critiques of two of the most seminal works on English labor history: E.P. Thompson's &quot;The Making of the English Working Class&quot; and Gareth Stedman Jones' &quot;Languages of Class&quot;.  Though Scott recognizes-- and lauds-- the contributions of both of these works, she also notes that they ignore the role that notions of gender played in the formation of working class identities and politics.  She also suggests how their descriptions of the 19th century English class would be different if they *had* considered gender as a factor.<br />The next set of essays are case studies in how gender can be used to explore different issues pertaining to 19th century French labor history.  While the actual arguments here aren't probably going to be interesting to anyone but other labor historians, these essays are more valuable as illustrations of how Scott's methodology can actually be used in practice.  The variety of sources she uses in these essays (including several whose use of gendered categories is subtle) shows just how powerful, and useful, a tool that gender analysis can be in the writing of history (labor history, at any rate), regardless of the source material.<br />The final pair of essays are more concered with &quot;historians&quot; today than with thepast.  In one, Scott address the famed sexual discrimination trial against Sears in which both sides hired femal labor historians to testify about the history of sexual discrimination. In this, Scott shows how their own claims were shaped by notions of gender-- notions that they did not consciously articulate, but which seemed to lay in the background as unstated assumptions.  The final essay has to do with how one might try to deconstruct the &quot;false opposition&quot; that our own contemporary value system has established between the notions of equality and difference-- particularly in the field of legal rights and opportunities.<br />Overall, this is an important, thoughtful, and extremely influential book.  I *highly* recommend it to all historians or would-be historians-- and I'd especially recommend it to anyone who's really not sure what gender history is supposed to be or why anyone would want to do it.  I could make a few criticisms of some small details (e.g. pointing out the title probably should be &quot;Gender, Class, and the Politics of History&quot; or &quot;Gender, Labor, and the Politics of History&quot; to reflect the fact that's Scott's primary interest is in applying gender theory to the field of labor history--  or that a lot of her criticisms of straw-men like &quot;conventional labor history&quot; and &quot;traditional intellectual history&quot; are unfair), but those really are minor nitpicks in an otherwise eye-opening and profoundly important work.	2001-07-19
US	51062631	RL3NKH7R0S751	0452010314	515671658	The Essential Rousseau ('The Social Contract'; 'Discourse on Inequality'; 'Discourse on the Arts and Sciences'; 'The Creed of a Savoyard Priest')	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Excellent Classroom Edition	&quot;The Essential Rousseau&quot; is an edition of, as its name suggests, Rousseau's most essential works, including his &quot;Discourse on the Arts and Letters&quot; and &quot;Discourse on the Origins of Inequality&quot; in their entirity, as well as excerpts from other major works, including &quot;The Social Contract&quot; and &quot;The Savoyard Priest&quot;.  The translation is clear and accurate, the selection of tests is appropraite and accurately reflects what I would consider to be essential.  There's a good brief sketch of Rousseau's life and work in the beginning, and a quick introduction to each work.  All in all, this is a fine edition for assignment in the classroom and for students.	2001-07-19
US	51062631	R2N2B4NLYQ9JUR	0801494818	304143109	Women and the Public Sphere in the Age of the French Revolution	Books	2	14	24	N	N	An important subject, but flawed scholarship...	Joan Landes' &quot;Women and the Public Sphere in the Age of the French Revolution&quot; consists of several essays loosely united by the theme of women and their place in the &quot;public sphere&quot; of activity during the late 18th century-- and specifically during the French Revolution.  This is an important and exciting topic-- and it's one that has not yet been researched to exhaustion.<br />Sadly, Landes' book is flawed in several ways. Some of these flaws are forgiveable, but a few are fatal.  One of the most obvious faults of this book has to do with one of its central concept-- the idea of the &quot;public sphere&quot;.  Landes specifically states that she is using this term as the philospher Habermas used it in his famous &quot;Public Transformations of the Public Sphere&quot;.  However, that is not what she does.  Habermas's conception of the public sphere is  that the idea of the &quot;public&quot; emerged as a term for  referring to the collective sets of feelings arising from private individuals engaged in private activities-- and *NOT* as something that exists in opposition to private interests and activities (which is how Landes uses it).  Now, the truth be told-- I don't think it's really a *problem* that Landes uses a different model of the public sphere than Habermas... after all, there's no reason to say that Habermas definition of it is any better than hers.  However, the fact of the matter is that Landes claims she really IS using Habermas' model of the public sphere.  In other words, it's not that she prefers another model-- it's that she misunderstands the model she's trying to use!<br />While this fact does not necessarily invalidate the whole book, it is, nontheless, a bit troubling.  One would think that a scholarly writer should have a good understanding of the theoretical models she is herself using.... and one might start become skeptical of more specific things that writer has to say as a result.  In the case of Landes, such skepticism would be well-placed, for there are many more serious, specific problems with this book.  I'll not go into them all here, but I'll only cite the most damning, namely that it one of the essays, Landes analyzes two contemporary movies that are set in Revolutionary France-- and she does so in order to bolster her general claims about how politics and gender operated in Revolutionary France.  Yes, that's right-- she uses two 20th century movies as if they were primary sources for writing the history of the 18th century.  And no, there's no recognition on her part that she's doing anything unusual-- or any attempt to say she's actually writing about the way we today represent the 18th century.  She really is trying to use these contemporary films as historical sources, as if they were actual 18th century documents.  What's next, using &quot;Braveheart&quot; as a historical source for information on medieval Scotland?  That's a kind of error that not even the most amateurish of historians should commit!  <br />When alls said and done, the many flaws of this book outweight its merits.  Although Landes does have a few insightful things to say about women, the public sphere, and the French revolution, the fact of the matter is that her claims are undermined by her methodological sloppiness.  She doesn't fully understand the theoretical models she is using, and she doesn't even seem to know what constitutes a legitimate source of historical information on the eighteenth century and what does not.  Still, this book has its merits-- especially as a model to be given to history students as to what *NOT* to do when writing a book.	2001-07-17
US	51062631	R30SE2CFP1CWGC	0679750541	362948743	Culture and Imperialism	Books	4	88	96	N	N	An engaging, but not entirely successful, literary study	.... <br />So, what is this book about?  Well, contrary to what some of the &quot;reviews&quot; below assume, it's not about contemporary Middle East politics, or media coverage thereof, or anything even remotely like that. It's about literature-- European literature to be specific.  <br />Essentially, Said proposes to look at what he calls &quot;Imperialism&quot; in European literature. (Although the title is &quot;Culture and Imperialism&quot; and while he does discuss one opera, he's not really concerned with culture or art, more broadly.  He's really talking about literature here-- and especially novels.  In truth, &quot;Literature and Imperialism&quot; would be a more accurate title.  <br />So, what is imperialism, as Said uses it here?  It is, he explains, an ideology-- a set of assumptions-- that justifies, supports, and legitimates the conquest, control, and domination of lands that are inhabited by other people, who speak different languages and have other traditions.  Imperialism, as an ideology, is thus distinct from &quot;Colonialism&quot;, which is the actual, real, activity of conquering, controling, and domination other lands and people.  Imperialism is, Said might say, the intellectual/cultural/ideological base that makes an otherwise morally dubious project of colonialism (conquering and ruling over others) seem acceptable, even justifiable.<br />Essentially, Said traces the role that imperialism (as defineed above) plays in a host of European literary works, focussing on the past two centuries.  After his theoretical/methodological introduction, each chapter is devoted to the discussion of a single literary work (or in some cases, multiple works by the same author), illuminating its imperialist qualities.  In doing so, he chooses only truly great literary works by the biggest and best names, and he also leaves a side a fewer mediocre authors who might have been obvious targets (like Kipling). Said's reason for doing this, I believe, is twofold:  First, I think, is the simple fact that he, like all true lovers of literature, prefers to discuss works that are truly great on their own right, rather than ones that are merely mediocre but happen to prove his point.  Secondly, Said wants to show that the imperialist ideologies he's talking about weren't just a peripheral sidenote in European culture-- but that they were part and parcel of its finest artistic achievements.  He does this, not as some of his critics might suppose, to indict European culture or to question the greatness of any of these texts.  Quite the contrary, I think, Said is concerned with showing how important and central this subject is to the history of European literature.  <br />The only problem is that a lot of the individual chapters (which are more or less case studies of specific works/authors) seem unsuccessful.  Obviously this is not the case in his chapters on Conrad, or on Verdi's &quot;Aida&quot;, both of which have clear and undeniable imperial/colonial elements to them.  However, his discussion of Jane Austin's works (for example), seems quite unconvincing.  Yes, there is the brief moment in one novel where the family patriarch announces that he is leaving to look after some of the family's &quot;sugar interests&quot; in the Caribbean.... but that's the closest one can get to an &quot;imperialist moment&quot; in Austin.  Said does, of course, acknowledge that it's not much-- and he does show how the father's absence enables many of the other events in the novel to transpire-- but it seems a bit forced.  Even the chapter on Verdi falls short a couple of times because Said seems to ignore the fact that, in many ways, Aida was an explicitly *anti-colonialist* opera that was most often interpreted as a quasi allegory *criticizing* Italian intervention in East Africa.  (Paul Robinson actually has a great chapter on this subject in his book, &quot;Opera and Ideas&quot;).<br />Still, in spite of its faults, and in spite of the fact that it doesn't establish its claim that &quot;imperialism is the central theme&quot; of European literature in the 19th century, &quot;Culture and Imperialism&quot; is a worthwile book to read.  While Said may overstate his case, he's definitely on to something important, and at the very least, he offers new and fresh perspectives of many great literary works that, in the end, go to show just how wonderfully complex, insightful, and meaningful those works are, both in and of themselves, and to the history of literature and ideas as a whole.  (Oh yes, I suppose I should add that, in contrast to many contemporary literary critics, Said can write well, and clearly.  Additionally, he's even retreated from the Foucauldian basis of some of his earlier work, and &quot;Culture and Imperialism&quot; has very much the feel of a good ol' fashioned piece of literary criticism, rather than something that bows to the current thoretical academic trends).  Highly recommended.	2001-07-16
US	51062631	R1DQ551FKUC7BF	0521385784	2822981	Inventing the French Revolution `: Essays on French Political Culture in the Eighteenth Century (Ideas in Context)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Brilliant scholarly history, but a very dense read	Keith Michael Baker is a highly esteemed historian (previously at U. of Chicago, now at Stanford) of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.  This book is a collection of essays that are unified by their subject matter, which can be described as &quot;the intellectual and ideological origins of the French Revolution&quot;.<br />A few of these essays are more historiographical/theoretical in nature.  That is to say, they are more concerned with questions of how historians approach this subject and the methods and intellectual tools they bring to bear on it.  These are quite smart (and extremely influential) pieces-- and they have a general applicability to the subject of intellectual/ideological history, and not just to the French Revolution.  However, like all works of historiography/methodology, the questions they pose are probably not going to be of interest to anybody other than other historians. (That's a pity really, as these are important questions that history buffs, and even just ordinary folks probably *should* take some interest in...)<br />Most of the essays in &quot;Inventing the French Revolution&quot;, however, are case studies of particular ways in which political ideologies were deployed and contested before and during the Revolution.  One of the most important of these has to do with the practice of writing history during the eighteenth century, as well as the collection of documents, the creation of archives, etc.  Far from being a disinterested practice, Baker shows, the writing of the past was a way of engaging in partisan political debate.  There were royal historians who presented the French past in such a way that tended to legitimize the claims of the crown over those of the aristocracy-- and other historians who took the opposite approach.  Libraries and archives were creted on both sides to serve as &quot;ideological aresenals&quot; to provide arms to conduct this ideological/political battle, which provided some of the &quot;ground principles&quot; on which the debates that led to the Creation of the Estates-General (and then the National Assembly) and other events in 1789 and beyond.<br />All in all, this is an extremely smart, thoughtful, and insightful book.  However, it is also a dense book.  Though Baker writes clearly , he deals with a lot of heavy, complicated, and abstract concepts-- and he treats them with the seriousness and complexity that they require, rather than oversimplifying them.  Consequently, this can sometimes be tough reading for those more used to graceful stylists (like Peter Gay). Also, it should be noted that this is a book about the creation of the *ideologies* that were deployed in both the pre-Revolutionary and Revoultionary era.  As such, it's a work of intellectual history, and of political ideology in specific.  This means that its a book about ideas, their development, and their function in political discourse.  Those expecting a dramatic narrative of the French Revolution that includes the storming of the Bastille and bloody guillotines will be sorely disappointed. Finally, in case it's not obvious from this review, it should be noted that this really is a work of scholarship, written by a professional historian, primarily for other historians.  Non-historians who know a lot about the Enlightenment and Revolution may still get something out of this if they're thoughtful and patient, but it's *not* a work of popular history, or a work intended to be read by someone who's not already knowledgeable about the general subject.	2001-07-16
US	51062631	RH2LD2K0U1SFS	1898281238	434440989	Leechcraft: Early English Charms, Plantlore and Healing	Books	3	34	35	N	N	Good on textual evidence, weak on discussion/analysis	This is a history of Anglo-Saxon medicine and medical knowledge.  In so far that that knowledge of healing herbs and techniques was considered quasi-magical in Anglo-Saxon times rather than being understood as an applied science or as a kind of philosophy, I suppose there is some connection to the history of witchcraft as the reviewer below suggests.  And, in fact, Pollington does touch on the subject of pre-Christian Germanic religion and the role of healers in it (which can be considered witchcraft, if one wants to use that term broadly).  Still, on the whole, this is really a book about the history of science and medicine, and readers should expect that *that* is the primary focus.<br />The basic organization of the book is cyclopaedic.  It is not so much a survey of Anglo-Saxon healing knowledge or techniques, or a scholarly analysis thereof, as a catalog of sources that provide information on Anglo-Saxon healing knowledge.  Several of these works are actually reproduced in full, in both Old English and modern English, while others merely have detailed quoted excerpts.  There is little to no commentary on the contents of these works-- they are simply presented for the reader to examine.  <br />What little analysis/discussion there is takes place in the opening chapter, which addresses questions of knowledge sources (e.g. how much Anglo-Saxon healing knowledge came from classical sources, how much from biblical/Christian sources, and how much from native folk medicine traditions).  Pollington argues for the existence of a thriving pre-Christian, pre-classical Germanic folk medical tradition and seeks to describe its nature and function (which is cast largely in terms of general 'shamanic' functions and techniques).  Though interesting, and certainly plausible, the fact of the matter is that there just isn't enough evidence out there to either make or refute this claim-- and it has to be taken as a plausible, but unverifiable, speculative idea.  Perhaps Pollingtoncould have added a little more weight to this claim by subjecting some of the texts he presents to analysis in way that supplies evidence for this claim (i.e. to show that some texts describe techniques that weren't part of classical/Christian medical lore-- but alas, he really doesn't give that here.<br />When all's said and done, this is still a worthy book on a subject about which little has been written.  Given that the two other major studies of the subject--  Oswald Cockayne's &quot;Leechdoms, Wortcunning, and Starcraft of Early England&quot; (1864) and Henry S. Wellcome's &quot;Anglo-Saxon Leechcraft&quot; (1912)are long, long out of print, this contitutes the best available published source on the subject of Anglo Saxon medical knowledge-- and provides translations of important Anglo-Saxon medical texts that might otherwise be unavailable to readers without access to a good university library.  The definitive work on Anglo-Saxon medicine is yet to be written-- if indeed it is writable at all-- butseems likely that Pollington's book will be the best one around for quite some time.	2001-07-10
US	51062631	RFB9VUWSBIXI	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Good naval/historical details, but not a great story...	This was my first Patrick O'Brian book, and I was quite sad to discover that  I didn't enjoy it as much as I hoped too.  That said, I have to admit that I did have very high expectations, given the high praise that I've heard about the Aubrey-Maturin saga-- often given by folks whose tastes are similar to my own.  It's quite possible that my disappointment is simply a function of the fact that my expectations had been raised so high...<br />To be fair, there *are* many good things about this book, the first in the Aubrey-Maturin saga.  Foremost among those, of course, is the impressive historical knowledge/research that went into this.  This is true not only in terms of matters of nautical/naval/maratime history (which is, of course, the main focus of the novel), but also in terms of the broader political/social/international mileu.   I particularly appreciate the fact that this book makes an effort to represent the less flashy aspects of naval life during the Napoleonic Wars-- the economic details of provisioning and outfitting a ship, the bureaucratic details of how a ships log was kept and the language of official naval correspondance, and even the complex web of social/personal 'politicking' that went on behind the scenes, on shore, and even on board.  Compared to C.S. Forester's classic Hornblower series (which I do love), &quot;Master and Commander&quot; is much grittier and grubbier, with more emphasis on realism and less on individual heroics.  <br />So, what's wrong?  Why am I giving this only 3 stars?  Well, in spite of the books merits, the fact remains that-- and I know I'm going to ruffle a few feathers in saying this-- is that it's somewhat weak in terms of characters, plot, description, and general narrative structure.  Put otherwise, it's well-researched and quite realistic--  but it's not really what I would call a well-written work of literature.  While characters do have well-developed backgrounds/histories, they're interactions and development inthe course of the novel seems quite flat and static-- and whenever changes or tensions exist, they just seem (to me) unconvincing.  The very friendship between Aubrey and Maturin, for example, or the supposedly simmering tension between Aubrey and Dillon (for another example), just seemed ....  well, unconvincing.  Part of the problem here, I think, is that O'Brian too often commits the error of 'telling', rather than 'showing', when it comes to character feelings and interactions.<br />In terms of the story, well, there really isn't all that much of a plot to tell the truth.  Essentially, Aubrey, Maturin, and the crew of the &quot;Sophie&quot; just sail around, pull into port, and engage in a few conflicts, with no overarching plot, development, or theme.  Often times transitions were abrupt, sudden, and unexpected-- and I often found myself needing to re-read sentences, paragraphs, or even whole sections to try and figure out what had changed and what new thing was happening.  <br />When all's said and done, this was still a pleasant enough read..... and I'm still willing to give O'Brian another try.  But, I guess I'm just disappointed that this book falls a bit short in terms of its literariness, even if it excels in its historicity.	2001-07-01
US	51062631	R2SGTKEML2XYX6	0801850878	808368619	Medievalism and the Modernist Temper (Parallax: Re-visions of Culture and Society)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent collection of essays on a neglected topic	The editors of this volume are two of the most important scholars in the field of Medieval Studies today.  They are also both exponents of a new approach to the study of the Middle Ages that has come to be called &quot;The New Philology&quot;.  While this is neither the time nor the place to engage in a discussion of this approach, suffice to say that the essays in this book are informed by a theoretically and critically informed postmodern sensibility.  Happily, however, the focus of these essays is *not* theory in and of itself-- the essays are about specific texts and well-defined topics.  Even more happily, the essays avoid the jargon-laden impenetrability that too often comes with other worksn that have a postmodern bent to them.  The writing here is quite clear and direct, at least as scholarly prose goes. (That said, this still is *primarily* a book for scholars, rather than for a general reading public.  It tends to assume familiarity with major works of medieval literature, with the names of famous medieval scholars-- especially those of the 19th century-- and the general history of medieval scholarship as a whole.)<br />So, that said, what is this book actually about?  A lot of things, actually...  It contains many short articles on a variety of topics that fall under the rubric of the title, &quot;Medievalism and the Modernist Temper&quot;.  This means that the book is not about the Middle Ages, per se. Rather, it is about *medievalism*-- that is to say, the scholarly study of the Middle Ages.  While medieval scholarship takes the Middle Ages as the object of its study, the fact remains that medievalism is a distinctly modern phenomenon.  In spite of some stirrings during the 18th century Enlightenment, the scholarly study of the middle ages did not begin in earnest until the 19th century.  Not only were many &quot;classic&quot; texts of medieval literature completely unknown until the 19th century (e.g. Beowulf, the Song of Roland), many of the terms weuse today to describe medieval phenomena and values were, in fact, coined in the 19th century.  The phrase &quot;courtly love&quot; (a.k.a. amour courtois) for instance, was not used the Middle Ages; it was invented in the 1860s by a French philologist named Gaston Paris.  <br />&quot;Medievalism &amp; the Modernist Temper&quot; examines some of the ways in which the study of the Middle Ages has been shaped by *modern* individuals acting within *modern* institutions, that have been motivated by *modern* beliefs, assumptions, and concerns.  As such, I suppose this could be understood as a kind of 'meta-history of the Middle Ages'-- one that examines how the concerns of the modern world have shaped the way in which scholars have come to view the medieval world in the past 200 years.  The essays variously explore issues, such as how the experience of the Napoleonic wars shaped the ways in which the young German philologist Jakob Grimm came to view Romance languages and literature, and how the loves and frustrations in the personal life of Gaston Paris and his friends led him to formulate his ideas about 'courtly love' in the way that he did.  <br />All in all, These essays offer a striking set of examples about how modernity shapes what we consider to be medieval, and how the so-called 'private' experiences and values of modern scholars shape the character of their 'public' scholarship.  <br />I only have two (mild) criticism of this otherwise excellent collection.  First, it tends to focus, almost exclusively, on those medievalist scholars whose research lay in the area of language and literature, as opposed to those who worked in the realm of political/economic/religious history.  Second, it tends to focus primarily on French scholars (e.g. Gaston Paris, Paul Meyer, Leon Gautier, etc.)-- and other scholars who studied medieval French languages/literatures (e.g. Jakob Grimm), to the exclusion of scholarship in other fields.  Still, the focus on French 'literary medievalism' does add an additional layer of thematic unity to these essays, so I can't really complain too much.<br />One final word:  Some folks might want to compare this to Norman Cantor's &quot;Inventing the Middle Ages&quot;.  However, there really is no comparison.  Whereas Cantor's book consists of a series of short, polemical biographies of prominent 20th century medievalists, with no real ideas to advance on how the study of the Middle Ages is itself a product of modern concerns, this collection's articles point out, in a way that Cantor fails to, just what is &quot;at stake&quot; here.  They show the degree to which Middle Ages-- and our ideas about it-- are substantially modern inventions (not fictions, necessarily, but inventions) that have come about largely as a result of modern concerns.  <br />Highly recommended for all those interested in the theory and practice of medieval scholarship (especially literary scholarship and philology)... but be prepared to have naive ideas about the relation of past and present, and about the 'objectivity' of scholarship as an activity, shattered.	2001-06-18
US	51062631	RJSXNX696VMW7	0688123023	451287545	Inventing the Middle Ages	Books	1	69	87	N	N	The ventings of a historian-turned-crank....	Norman Cantor is learned scholar of the Middle Ages, and when he's acting as a scholar, he's very good at it.   He is also a whiny and bitter old crank-- and unfortunately, this book is more a product of the crank than the scholar.  <br />First things first-- this is *not* a book about the Middle Ages.  It's a book about several 20th century scholars of medieval history.  That's all fine and well, of course-- and it could have actually made for a fascinating study of how we moderns continually interpret and reinterpret the Middle Ages to suit our own varied purposes.  In fact, its title seems to promise a discussion of how what we call &quot;The Middle Ages&quot;, is in fact, a kind of  intellectual invention, a functional concept that is continually being invented and reinvented (cf. Keith Baker's classic book &quot;Inventing the French Revolution&quot;).  <br />Unfortunately, Cantor delivers no such thing.  Instead, he merely provides us with biographical summaries of the lives of a number of notable 20th century medievalists, filled with various vignettes,  reminiscences about those medievalists he knew personally, and a near-continual stream of snide comments.   There's little offered in the way of geniuine argument or ideas here-- Cantor is not trying to advance any claims about medievalism as a discipline, the problems and challenges of medieval scholarship, or the Middle Ages as an invented concept.  Rather, he's just writing shotgun biographies of Tolkien, Lewis, Bloch, Southern, and many others.  <br />As one progresses through this book, it becomes clear that what motivated Cantor to write this book was not scholarly interest, but an emotional need to vent.  Frustration, jealous, and bitterness stain the pages of this book in bilous green.  When Cantor mocks the fact that plays and movies (i.e. &quot;Shadowlands&quot;) were made about the life of C.S. Lewis, or when he talks about other medievalists (usually French ones) who achieved the status of celebrities within the academic world and to whom &quot;female graduate students gladly offered their minds and bodies&quot;, his envy is all too transparent.  Cantor doesn't come write out and say, &quot;Why should *they* have plays written about them and have young girls throw themselves at *them*? What about me?  I'm a successful medievalist too!  Why don't I get that?&quot;, but he doesn't need to-- it's all too apparent from his embittered and disparaging tone.<br />It's also clear that another of Cantor's motivations is actually a kind of self-promotion.  He's creating a pantheon of 'great medievalists', and never fails to mention his personal connections those whom he knew personally.   While he's not so brazen to place himself in this pantheon that he has created, it is nonetheless abundantly clear that he thinks he that he himself truly deserves to be counted in their ranks, and that he is, at the very least, far more important and interesting than many of the other medievalists he writes about.  <br />In sum, if you want to read the ventings of a successful-yet-bitter academic, you might really like this book.  If you want a series of short, polemic filled biographies of 20th century scholars, you might find this passable.  If you want something that really talks about &quot;medievalism&quot; and medieval scholarship, however, I recommend you give &quot;Inventing the Middle Ages&quot; a wide, wide berth.  Instead, pick up &quot;Medievalism and the Modernist Temper&quot;, a series of essays edited  by R. Howard Bloch and Stephen Nicolls, that actually discuss the fact that medieval scholarship is a modern phenomenon and  consider it as such.  It's a much better, and much more scholarly book.	2001-05-09
US	51062631	R3A2Z3KFZ0SARD	0195214234	560857197	Pleasures and Pastimes in Medieval England	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Nice survey, good for beginners, but lacks depth	This is a very accessible work on the &quot;pleasures and pastimes&quot; of medieval England.  The author defines this term rather broadly, and includes not only such matters as games, hunts, drinking, poetry, pets, dancing, music, etc.-- but also clothes, architecture, and craftsmanshsip on the grounds that finely made clothes, armor, elaborate buildings, and well-crafted goods were a source of 'pleasure' to their owners and/or those who used them.  Religion is also considered as a source of pleasure and pastime (pilgrimmages, feast days, etc.) The chapters are organized thematically, with one chapter on &quot;literature&quot;, another on the plastic arts, another on &quot;religion&quot;, etc.  Each chapter is divided up into further thematic subsections (for example, breaking down crafts into goldsmithing, leather working, woodcarving, etc.) each of which is given a page or two.  <br />Overall, the book's organization and function is that of a general survey. It provides only a cursory overview of a lot of different 'pleasures and pastimes' rather than an in-depth scholarly study that provides new knowledge or puts forth a new intepretation.  These kinds of survey books have their uses, to be sure, but somehow, in reading this, I just I find myself feeling a bit like a rock being skipped over the surface of a deep pond.  I guess I'd just liked the author to have gone a little bit deeper below the surface in some way.  Perhaps he could have provided more concrete examples-- or even some counter examples.   Perhaps he could have delved a bit more into how 'pleasures and pastimes' changed over time, or differed from region to region-- or maybe even among the different classes of society.  Or perhaps he could have engaged a bit more with some of the historiographical contraversies surrounding this subject.  Most of all, however, I wish the author had explored whether or not people in the Middle Ages had the same concepts of 'pleasure' and 'pastime' as we do or whetherthey viewed them in the same way, with the same set of values.  (I suspect they probably did not.)  All in all, I can't help but think that that there just isn't quite as much 'meat' to chew here as there ought to be.	2001-05-07
US	51062631	RRVERERAEQLD3	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	1	18	22	N	N	Stop the wheel, please, I'm getting off...	To give Jordan his due, &quot;The Wheel of Time&quot; used to be a *great* fantasy series.  What started off as a Tolkien knock-off in &quot;The Eye of the World&quot;, quickly evolved into an original and innovative epic in the volumes from &quot;The Great Hunt&quot; up through &quot;Lord of Chaos&quot;.<br />But then... things started to decline, with succeeding volumes (e.g. &quot;Crown of Swords&quot;, &quot;Path of Daggers&quot;) starting to drag, as the number of characters continued to multipy, as did the number of side-plots, with sub-plots developing within each of the sub-plots, and further digressions developing on those sub-sub-plots, requiring the need for Jordan to jump around so much that the main story got lost and nothing much at all really seemed to be happening any more-- until the last 50 pages of the book, when more or less out of nowhere, a suden flurry of activity took place-- a flurry that was so sudden that it was completley incongruous with the rest of the book... almost as if Jordan's publishers called him up after getting the draft and said, &quot;Um, Rob... you *have* to make something happen in this book with the main plot.  Can't you just give us 2 more chapters?&quot;  Still, the greatness of the earlier books gave me enough energy to move through those with some degree of enthusiasm.<br />&quot;Winter's Heart&quot; is supposedly something of a recovery for Jordan, with a returned focus on the main characters. I suppose there's some truth in that, but to be honest, I found this book even more tedious and dull than the last ones.  Yes, there's more of a focus on the main characters, but the overall plot here still seems to be quite lost in all of the sub-plots, sub-sub-sub-plots, and digressions just involving those main characters-- including new ones that are raised here (Oh no, Fail gets kidnapped...) and frankly, I just find that I can't muster the enthusiasm for any of it anymore.  Even the parts of the book involving *Rand* seemed tedious to me (especially since, once again, the biggest part of the story involving him is-- guess what-- a new sub-plot/digression.  Moreover, a lot of the distinctive little features of Jordan's style and world-development are starting to seem repetitive after so many books.  Once, the detailed descriptions of Aiel bonding rituals seemed neat, and the continuous comments of the various characters on how men can never understand women and vice versa were kind of cute and playful.  Now though, it just seems like, &quot;Oh yes, this again.&quot;  About halfway through, I realized that I was taking no pleasure whatsoever from the book and it was a major chore to force myself to read through to the end (and even then, it was only skimming that made it possible.)<br />Maybe, on some purely objective level, &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; is a bit more on-target than the preceding pair, and maybe, just maybe, if there hadn't been such a big delay between this book and the last, my enthusiasm for this would be higher.  But I justcan't fool myself into thinking that I am enjoying this series any longer.  Based on how slow things are moving along with this series, The Wheel of Time will undoubtedly continue to keep turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning-- but for me, the ride stops here. There are too many good other books out there for me keep spinning along endlessly with a series that is no longer enjoyable.med tedious to me (especially since, once again, the biggest part of the story involving him is-- guess what-- a new sub-plot/digression.  Moreover, a lot of the distinctive little features of Jordan's style and world-development are starting to seem repetitive after so many books.  Once, the detailed descriptions of Aiel bonding rituals seemed neat, and the continuous comments of the various characters on how men can never understand women and vice versa were kind of cute and playful.  Now though, it just seems like, &quot;Oh yes, this again.&quot;  About halfway through, I realized that I was taking no pleasure whatsoever from the book and it was a major chore to force myself to read through to the end (and even then, it was only skimming that made it possible.)<br />Maybe, on some purely objective level, &quot;Winter's Heart&quot; is a bit more on-target than the preceding pair, and maybe, just maybe, if there hadn't been such a big delay between this book and the last, my enthusiasm for this would be higher.  But I justcan't fool myself into thinking that I am enjoying this series any longer.  Based on how slow things are moving along with this series, The Wheel of Time will undoubtedly continue to keep turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning and turning-- but for me, the ride stops here. There are too many good other books out there for me keep spinning along endlessly with a series that is no longer enjoyable.	2001-05-04
US	51062631	R3472DKDIXM1XS	0393317757	394184346	The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: The Four Fundamental Concepts of Psychoanalysis (Vol. Book XI)  (The Seminar of Jacques Lacan)	Books	1	125	185	N	N	Not worth the time and effort	First, let me start off by saying that I am an intellectual historian with a great passion for the history of ideas, especially those dealing with the mind and how it works-- psychoanalytic thought in particular.  I'm well used to reading works that are dense, difficult, and jargon-laden.  I'm also quite familiar with intellectual traditions that Lacan is responding to, borrowing from, and those that he himself has inspired (most notably the tradition of French psychoanalytical feminism a la Irigaray, Cixous, Kristeva, etc).  I say all this not to pat myself on the back, but to provide some context for this review:  I am *not* someone who hates books just because they're difficult, or because they're about such rarefied subjects.<br />However, I cannot in good intellectual faith recommend this book to anyone.  Partly, I freely admit, this is because I really don't think Lacan has really all that much to say.  While I don't deny the fact that he *was* instrumental in putting a structuralist (and then post-structuralist) turn in psychoanalysis in some of his early essays (such as appear in &quot;Ecrits&quot;) as well as pioneering contraversial new techniques of therapy, such as the variable-length session).  But since those early daysthen, his reputation was due more to his charismatic personality and his influential friends within the French academic world, rather than because he had all that much to say.<br />This book is a perfect example of that.  Taken from one of his mid-period seminars (essentially series of lecture courses), Lacan babbles, obfuscates, metaphorizes,and jokes his way through a set of vaguely philosophical points about the mind that could probably have been adequately summarized in a single lecture, or maybe 20-30 pages. (Note to readers of Freud, Jung, Adler, etc.  Please be aware that, unlike those guys, Lacan makes no references whatsoever to practical therapeutic experiences to back up his claims; this is pure theoretical speculation.  Also, don't expect Lacan's use of terms like 'drive', 'unconscious' or 'transference' to have anything in common with the more conventional psychoanalytical meanings of those terms.) His use of metaphors has a haphazard quality to it that, at times, borders on the nonsensical-- particularly when he starts borrowing them from fields that he clearly doesn't understand very well himself, such as topology.  That said, it's undeniable that Lacan's audience was enamoured of his performance.  The questions and answers that are included here show a rapt and almost fawning reverence for the man they affectionately refer to as &quot;The Master&quot;.  But what does a reader, not able to bask in the warm glow of Lacan's personal charisma, get out of this?  Not much....  a tiny handful of rehashed ideas, and a few witty phrases here and there, but mostly one gets a lot of dense, pointless verbiage from a man who seems like he's trying to hide the fact that he's got nothing new to say .<br />If you're going to read Lacan, read some of the real stuff-- when he was actually putting forth new (and at the time, revolutionary) ideas like his essays on &quot;The Mirror Stage&quot;, &quot;The Form and Function of the Letter&quot;, and &quot;Agressivity in Psychoanalysis&quot;-- or, if you must, some of the early seminars.  But by this point, Lacan had long since ceased to be someone worth paying attention to-- and this book simply isn't worth the trouble it takes to get through it.  (There are a lot of difficult works that *are* worth the trouble-- Hegel's &quot;Phenomenology of Spirit&quot;, Marx's &quot;Das Kapital&quot;, Heidegger's &quot;Being and Time&quot;, and even a lot of works by the other post-structuralists with whom Lacan is often associated-- but believe me, this just isn't one of them).o, don't expect Lacan's use of terms like 'drive', 'unconscious' or 'transference' to have anything in common with the more conventional psychoanalytical meanings of those terms.) His use of metaphors has a haphazard quality to it that, at times, borders on the nonsensical-- particularly when he starts borrowing them from fields that he clearly doesn't understand very well himself, such as topology.  That said, it's undeniable that Lacan's audience was enamoured of his performance.  The questions and answers that are included here show a rapt and almost fawning reverence for the man they affectionately refer to as &quot;The Master&quot;.  But what does a reader, not able to bask in the warm glow of Lacan's personal charisma, get out of this?  Not much....  a tiny handful of rehashed ideas, and a few witty phrases here and there, but mostly one gets a lot of dense, pointless verbiage from a man who seems like he's trying to hide the fact that he's got nothing new to say . <br />If you're going to read Lacan, read some of the real stuff-- when he was actually putting forth new (and at the time, revolutionary) ideas like his essays on &quot;The Mirror Stage&quot;, &quot;The Form and Function of the Letter&quot;, and &quot;Agressivity in Psychoanalysis&quot;-- or, if you must, some of the early seminars.  But by this point, Lacan had long since ceased to be someone worth paying attention to-- and this book simply isn't worth the trouble it takes to get through it.  (There are a lot of difficult works that *are* worth the trouble-- Hegel's &quot;Phenomenology of Spirit&quot;, Marx's &quot;Das Kapital&quot;, Heidegger's &quot;Being and Time&quot;, and even a lot of works by the other post-structuralists with whom Lacan is often associated-- but believe me, this just isn't one of them).	2001-05-03
US	51062631	R2M8ZG0UMBOQN2	0521270340	543963171	English Culture and the Decline of the Industrial Spirit, 1850-1980	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Good cultural history, but it falls short of its goals	In this book, Martin J. Wiener attempts to explain Britain's general postwar economic decline by a pointing to a decline in the &quot;industrial spirit&quot; of English culture. This decline, he suggests, began in the nineteenth century, not long after the industrial revolution itself was in full swing.  By examining literature, art, poetry, political statments, philosophy, social habits, and other cultural documents (even song and music), Wiener seeks to outline the decline of this industrial spirit over a 130-year period and thereby explain Britain's economic decline.<br />In fact, what Wiener ends up tracing is not really a &quot;decline in an industrial spirit&quot;, but rather the *growth of an anti-industrial spirit*.  This is not quite the same thing. It's one thing to note that many people in England were (and still are) critical of the ugliness, exploitativeness, and money-mindedness of modern industrial capitalism-- and that many of them came to feel a strong nostalgia for Old England, with it's rural, pre-industrial way of life.  It's quite another to show that people actually became less interested in investing in industrial enterprises, in building factories, etc.  To Wiener's credit, he does show that this anti-industrial spirit was *not* limited to working-class movements or romantic poets, but that it was actually shared by some bourgeois industrialists themselves-- at least to a certain degree. (I'm not 100% convinced, though, that the millionaire factory-owner who lives in a country estate to be away from the ugliness of the industrial cities, and who lets others direct the 'grubby' details of business management and financial investment can trulybe said to have embraced an 'anti-industrial spirit').  However, Weiner fails to show that any of this led to an actual decline in enthusiasm for-- or actual investment in-- industrial enterprises.  Nor does he provide any evidence that this diffuse anti-industrial sentiment led to government policies or economic decisions by anyone that would stifled economic growth and led to an economic decline (which was, of course, the whole point of the book).<br />When all's said and done, Wiener doesn't provide a compelling explanation of Britain's economic decline.  I'm convinced that this anti-industrial sentiment is very real in England, and I'm willing to believe it could be a factor in explaining Britain's postwar decline-- but I just don't think Wiener makes the case here. That said, he does provide an excellent account of the growth of anti-industrial sentiment in English culture, and as such, this book is well worth reading as a work of pure cultural history.	2001-04-19
US	51062631	RPN2TGT2ZGFDY	0819561436	233234327	Fables from the Old French: Aesop's Beasts and Bumpkins (Wesleyan Poetry in Translation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Translation of Obscure Fables	This book is a bilingual edition (Old French, English) containing approximately 40 Old French fables and their English translations.  The originals and the translations are in verse and appear on facing pages so that the scholar who knows Old French can compare the two.   Shapiro's translations are quite good. He manages to preserve the rhyming pattern of the originals, without significantly altering the content or resorting to awkward syntax.    Also of note here is an outstanding 45 page introduction by Howard Needler, who discusses the history and cultural import of fables as a genre and performs a quick close reading. of each fable in this edition.  There are also some nice medievalesque woodcut illustrations.  When all's said and done, this is a well-done book-- but, don't think that this is going to be a good gift for a child.  While this isn't  exactly a scholarly tome, it's a bit  denser than your typical rendition of Aesop... and probably isn't going to be too interesting to kids.  I highly recommend this for those interested in poetry, and especially medieval poetry, though.	2001-04-16
US	51062631	RO8NWLNEZ70UU	0819561436	233234327	Fables from the Old French: Aesop's Beasts and Bumpkins (Wesleyan Poetry in Translation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Translation of Obscure Fables	This book is a bilingual edition (Old French, English) containing approximately 40 Old French fables and their English translations.  The originals and the translations are in verse and appear on facing pages so that the scholar who knows Old French can compare the two.   Shapiro's translations are quite good. He manages to preserve the rhyming pattern of the originals, without significantly altering the content or resorting to awkward syntax.    Also of note here is an outstanding 45 page introduction by Howard Needler, who discusses the history and cultural import of fables as a genre and performs a quick close reading. of each fable in this edition.  There are also some nice medievalesque woodcut illustrations.  When all's said and done, this is a well-done book-- but, don't think that this is going to be a good gift for a child.  While this isn't  exactly a scholarly tome, it's a bit  denser than your typical rendition of Aesop... and probably isn't going to be too interesting to kids.  I highly recommend this for those interested in poetry, and especially medieval poetry, though.	2001-04-16
US	51062631	R1LFOJY0XA6Z7F	0521200733	336925824	002: The Agrarian History of England and Wales: Volume 2, 1042-1350	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Definitive Study	This is the second volume of Cambridge University Press's multi-volume &quot;The Agrarian History of England and Wales&quot; (general editor Joan Thirsk),which traces the history of agrarian/rural economics in England and Wales from prehistory to the present. This particular volume, edited by medieval historian H.E. Hallam, is devoted to the period 1042 (just before the Norman Conquest) through 1348 (the year of the Black Death.  <br />The 1200+ pages of this mammoth study are divided into 10 chapters, although most of these aredivided further into 'sub-chapters' and articles. The ten major chapters are: &quot;England Before the Norman Conquest&quot;, &quot;Domeday England&quot;, &quot;New Settlements&quot;, &quot;Farming Techniques&quot;, &quot;Population Movements&quot;, &quot;Social Structure&quot;, &quot;Prices and Wages&quot;, &quot;The Life of the People&quot;, &quot;Rural Building in England and Wales&quot;, and an overall summary on &quot;Rural England and Wales, 1042-1350&quot;.  Many of the chapters and articles are written by Hallam himself, but others are written by other noted social and economic historians of medieval England: Sally Harvy, Cristopher Dyer, R. Ian Jack, Edward Miller, J.G. Hurst, David Farmer, L.A.S. Butler, etc.  There is a select bibliography at the end, as well as two separate indexes (one for place names, the other for all other items).  Dozens-- perhaps even hundreds-- of tables and charts are included, as are several illustrations.  <br />In terms of the substance of the book-- well, it's clear that this is going to be *the* definitive and most comprehensive study of rural economic history in England and Wales in this period for a long, long time to come. However, its' comprehensiveness comes with a certain price (and I'm not just talking about the pricetag).  This is an extremely detailed book filled with all sorts of statistics, observations, comparisons, and references to individual villages, practices, etc.  At times, the reader can get lost in the specifics-- missing the forest for the trees (or perhaps I should say the wheat stalks for the fields?)  That's not to say that general overviews aren't provided, mind you-- it's just that they are followed by so much specific detail that one can sometimes lose track of the big picture.  Another trade-off is that, while there is a chapter discussing structures and relations, the work really focuses on economics, without delving deeply into the connections between economics and social life.  I don't see either of these as being a *fault* of the book per se, but rather as an inevitable consequence of it treating agrarian economic life so comprehensively.<br />In truth, this probably isn't a book for the person who is casually interested in medieval history or rural life.  The level of detail can be overwhelming at times, and the writing is not exactly what you would call &quot;lively&quot;.  This is really a work for the scholar-- or for the amateur who's *extremely* interested in the economic life of the the medieval countryside (and who has already read several shorter studies). But for someone who wants a thorough, scholarly, and comprehensive treatment of English/Welsh agrarian life from the Conquest through the Black Death, this book is an unparalleled resource.	2001-04-16
US	51062631	R1IFSNBJT5312O	0912004312	335882464	The Medieval Coroner (Cambridge Studies in English Legal History.)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The definitive study of this subject	First published in 1961, R.F. Hunisett's &quot;The Medieval Coroner&quot; is  a scholarly book rather than a piece of popular history.  However, it's not too jargon-laden and there is a glossary of legal/historical terms included. It ought to be of interest to those interested in medieval history, legal history, and (albeit to a lesser degree), forensic medicine.  Fans of medieval mystery novels mgith also enjoy this.  As Hunniset explains, medieval coroners engaged in many of the same practices as modern coroners.  Whenever an unknown body was found, or whenever a person died under circumstances that were &quot;sudden, accidental, violent, or suspicious&quot;, a coroner was required to investigate, examine the body for all signs of wounds, and to conduct an inquest into the cause of death.  However, medieval coroners had other important judicial functions, including hearing/recording the confessions of admitted felons, hearing/recording accusations of felonies, and issuing exactions for their appearance in court, assessing the value of murder weapons and property owned by felons (which would be confiscated by the crown), and several others.  Hunniset discusses these various functions in separate chapters, and provides numerous examples from primary sources.  He also discusses how the office evolved from the time of its creation  in 1194 through the early Renaissance.  Though forty years old, this book remains the definitive study of this unusual, but important subject.	2001-04-13
US	51062631	R570RFFANB4RS	0140150463	97315337	The Portable Medieval Reader (Portable Library)	Books	4	58	61	N	N	Very Good Collection of Excerpted Texts	This book contains excerpts from 100+ different medieval texts on diverse subjects.  The excerpts are arranged thematically, with like subjects grouped together. There is, for example, a section on monastic life and practice, with several different texts provided to illustrate monastic life both as it was supposed to be, as it actually was, and as it was seen by non-monks.  The texts chosen provide accounts of various monastic orders (the Franciscans, the Cistercians, etc.)in different parts of Europe. Similar thematic sections are provided for nobles, peasants, craftsmen and merchants, and there are thematic sections on a range of more specific subjects to boot. The kinds of texts chosen range from the highly literary and erudite (poems, philosophical treatises, etc.) to the mundane and prosaic (court records, trade accounts, etc.)  All in all it's an excellent compilation, although I wish more had been provided to &quot;introduce&quot; each selection-- with a bit more said about the author, the work the excerpt was taken from, it's specific historical context in which it was written, etc., so that the reader of &quot;The Portable Medieval Reader&quot; could be a bit more informed about the sources provided.	2001-04-12
US	51062631	R1NX47GZQX4F7A	0140440062	740001827	001: The Divine Comedy, Part 1: Hell (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	48	84	N	N	A very outdated  translation	Dorothy Sayers was a fine mystery author and a knowledgable scholar of medieval literature.  And once upon a time, this *was* one of the best available translations in English.  Times change, however, and new English translations have come along that do a far better job than Sayers' does.<br />The biggest problem with Sayers translation, in my humble opinion, is her attempt to preserve Dante's rhyme scheme.  In her introduction,  The fact of that matter is that Italian is a language in which rhymes are frequent, easy,  and melodious.  In English, having every other line rhyme just sounds cloying and contrived.  It also makes the reading more difficult, because of the inverted syntax, archaic vocabulary, and awkward rhythmsand that Sayers has to use in order force the rhymes in there.  Oh sure, the fact that she was able to it at all is impressive.  But it still doesn't make for a palatable rendition Dante's supple language (which, even to modern Italians reads smoothly and vernacularly, and not at all awkward.)  Those who really want  some retention of Dante's rhymes would do far better with Robert Pinsky's translation (which uses 'soft rhymes' and doesn't force them when they won't fit).  Alan Mandelbaum's and John Ciardi's translations are good too.<br />Another problem with Sayers edition are the notes.  While, on the one hand, they can very helpful to a first-time reader, they are also outdated.  If you want to know what Oxford scholars thought about Dante a half-century ago, Sayers notes are great for that. And I don't say that to be dismissive, those 1940's Oxford medievalists had a lot of very good things to say.  However, the fact of the matter is that Dante studies-- and medieval scholarship have changed a lot in the past half-century-- and reading her notes is something like reading a half-century old textbook of American history.  They leave out a lot of things that probably ought to be discussed.<br />An even bigger problem with the notes here, I think, is that  the author too readily presents her notes as &quot;The Truth&quot; (with a capital &quot;T&quot;) about the poem-- as if there were only one correct way to interpret it and  its details.  Her interpretations are often insightful, suggestive, and they will greatly help the first-time reader-- but they are so didactic in their style that they may overlyy contrain the reader's  freedom of interpretation.  It's more like she's trying to use her notes to tell you, &quot;The poem means this&quot;, rather than using them to background information and context so that you can figure out what *you* think it means on your own.<br />And, at the risk of sounding like I'm &quot;politically correct&quot;, the fact of the matter is that there also are some biases in her notes that, to me, seem rather glaring today.  This is particularly evident where she explains why Dante places Mohammed in the part of Hell with the schismatics.  Rather than simply pointing out that medieval Christians erroneously believed that Islam began from a schism within Christianity, Sayers uses the occasion to make a few denigrating comments about Islam (which she insists upon referring to as &quot;Mohammedism&quot;).  Again, I don't hold this against Sayers per se... She wrote this book among and for a coz y community of Oxford Christians over a half-century ago.... and it's naturally going to be show its colors in that regard.  But, for us folks who are reading it today, in the 21st century, well...  maybe the notes just need to be updated a bit.<br />Anyway, when all's said and done, Dante's work is masterful, and even Sayers' awkward translation and outdated notes can't completely conceal that.  However, I really think readers would be better off sticking to the Ciardi, Mandelbaum, or Pinsky translations of the _Inferno_.  (My preference is for the Pinksy, but to each his own...)is that  the author too readily presents her notes as &quot;The Truth&quot; (with a capital &quot;T&quot;) about the poem-- as if there were only one correct way to interpret it and  its details.  Her interpretations are often insightful, suggestive, and they will greatly help the first-time reader-- but they are so didactic in their style that they may overlyy contrain the reader's  freedom of interpretation.  It's more like she's trying to use her notes to tell you, &quot;The poem means this&quot;, rather than using them to background information and context so that you can figure out what *you* think it means on your own.<br />And, at the risk of sounding like I'm &quot;politically correct&quot;, the fact of the matter is that there also are some biases in her notes that, to me, seem rather glaring today.  This is particularly evident where she explains why Dante places Mohammed in the part of Hell with the schismatics.  Rather than simply pointing out that medieval Christians erroneously believed that Islam began from a schism within Christianity, Sayers uses the occasion to make a few denigrating comments about Islam (which she insists upon referring to as &quot;Mohammedism&quot;).  Again, I don't hold this against Sayers per se... She wrote this book among and for a coz y community of Oxford Christians over a half-century ago.... and it's naturally going to be show its colors in that regard.  But, for us folks who are reading it today, in the 21st century, well...  maybe the notes just need to be updated a bit.<br />Anyway, when all's said and done, Dante's work is masterful, and even Sayers' awkward translation and outdated notes can't completely conceal that.  However, I really think readers would be better off sticking to the Ciardi, Mandelbaum, or Pinsky translations of the _Inferno_.  (My preference is for the Pinksy, but to each his own...)	2001-04-09
US	51062631	RFIT5WHRJDZTW	019210019X	337484410	A Dictionary of English Folklore	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Outstanding  and scholarly reference guide	Don't let the review below mislead you into to thinking that this is a piece of new-age fluff.  Though neo-pagans may also get something out of it, &quot;A Dictionary of English Folkore&quot; is a work of serious scholarship and eruditon, compiled by two internationally recognized folklore scholars and published by Oxford University Press.  As such, it is best compared to other reference guides published by academic presses (e.g. &quot;The Oxford Dictionary of Saints&quot;, &quot;The Concise Dictionary of American History&quot;, &quot;The Norton Dictionary of French Literature&quot;, etc.), rather than to books on how to perform Wiccan sex magic.<br />Essentially, this is an alphabetical dictionary of English (not British, just English) folklore. The editors use a fairly broad definition of folklore and the 1000+ entries deal with nursery rhymes, fairy tales, folktales and legends, superstitions, holidays, customs, and even folk medicine and folk music and dancing.  Topics discussed include: Mother Goose, Robin Hood, wassailing, the tooth fairy, Michaelmas, splitting wishbones, kissing under the mistletoe, and Morris dancing.  The folkloric origins of many colloquialisms and other turns of speech (i.e. why is a ne'er-do-well refered to as &quot;the black sheep of the family&quot;) are discussed, and there are even entries for a a few modern urban legends as well.  <br />The entries are arranged alphabetically rather than thematically (it is a 'dictionary' after all) and tend to be fairly brief (a few sentences to one paragaph long).  They do, however, have cross-references to related entries and come with citations so that those seeking more detailed information about a particular item can go find a source that treats it at greater length.<br />This isn't necessarily a book that everyone needs, but it is an *outstanding* reference guide and will be very useful to those interested in English culture, literature, and history.  And frankly, even folks who don't reallyneed a reference guide to English folkore will probably still find this a lot of fun to browse though. (The short entries actually make it great for casual 'bathroom reading' as it were).  I don't give out five-star reviews lightly, but a well-researched, well-presented reference work like this deserves it.	2001-04-06
US	51062631	R1GJQK379U959T	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Thought-provoking and playful... and a bit overrated	The second of Brin's Uplift books, _Startide Rising_ is good book, maybe even a great book. At the same time, it's also a flawed book, and I think it's a bit overrated by those who sing its unqualified praises.<br />The basic  premise of _Startide Rising_ is outstanding. The _Streaker_, a spaceship  crewed by humans and dolphins who have been uplifted to full sapience  through genetic engineering is sent out on a mission with two simple goals:  (1) to check the accuracy of the Galactic Library's reports on certain star  systms and (2) to test the viability of the newly-uplifted dolphins as  spacefarers (they use tools by means of cybernetic strap-ons).  In the  course of this mission, however, Streaker comes across a secret about the  Progenitors, the mythical species believed to have started sapient life in  the galaxy and beliefs about whom form the basis of most Galactic  religions.  This secret proves to be deadly, however, for dozens of the  most dangerous, most fanatical, and most earthling-hostile species in the  galaxy want it for themselves!  Rather than being hailed as great  discovers, the poor dolphins and humans of the _Streaker_ become like  hunted outlaws, pursued throughout the galaxy by armadas of alien vessels,  each wishing to claim the knowledge now aboard the vessel for themselves.   As the novel begins, the damaged _Streaker_ has taken refuge under the  poisonous seas of the planet Kithrup, while dozens of alien vessels fight  overhead for the right to claim her...<br />It's a great set-up.  Brin's  invented Uplift Universe is clever and thought-provoking, and there *is*  some good action in this. (Also, Brin really seems to have done his  homework on dolphin behaviour and has done a good job at making these  sapient fins still act very 'dolphin-like'.  His invented ideas like the  poetic trinary language dolphins use among themselves and their memories of  the presentient 'whale-dream' are quite original as well).   The problem,  though, is this.  Brin can't seem to restrain himself to just a few key  characters. There must be at least 20-25 characters from whose perspective  the story is told here-- and each chapter jumps to a new character who is  usually doing something quite unconnected to the action/perspective of the  previous chapter. Seeing so many perspectives may be nice, but it comes at  the cost of giving the narrative a scattered, disconnected feel.  it also  results in weak and shallow characterization.  Brin would have been much  better off just sticking with 5-6 main characters (at most) for telling the  story.  Doing that, furthermore, would also have done much to improve the  'feel' of the story as well.  The stress and tension aboard the damaged  ship of untested dolphins, hidden underwater while enemies hunt them, has  the potential for great tension, psychological development, and the like.   But the scattered nature of the story, including huge jumps from someone on  board streaker, to someone on an away mission on the other side of the  planet, to one of the aliens on board their ships, to this, to that, before  one comes back to the same character and place-- well, it tends to break up  those feelings of stress and tension, or at least it prevents Brin from  really *showing* them to the reader, and as such he can only *tell* the  reader that they're taking place.<br />There are also a couple of kooky bits  that Brin's thrown in here and there that he probably shouldn't have-- like  'probability drives' (how can anyone seriously use that idea after Douglas  Adams!) and the Episiarch and Acceptor, aliens genetically bred so as to  embody the ontological positions of negation and acceptance and who can,  purely by will, either change reality around them or know the ultimate  truth of it.  Metaphysics and genetic engineering are each fine subjects  for a sci-fi book, but they don't mix well-- at least not here.<br />Yet, in  spite of all these failings _Startide Rising_ is *still* a very good book--  being thought-provoking as well as a delightful read. And for anyone who  wants to explore Brin's Uplift books, it is undoubtedly the best place to  start.	2000-04-07
US	51062631	RC5SRTBKNE3W8	0553269828	224417303	Sundiver (The Uplift Saga, Book 1)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Great ideas, mediocre story...	This book is considered the first of Brin's first Uplift Trilogy, but it is really a stand-alone novel, set far apart in setting, plot, and style from _Startide Rising_ and the _Uplift War_. That said, it is in this book  that Brin first introduces the readers to the universe that will  be  developed more fully in his later works-- and what a fascinating universe  it is!  Humans 'uplifting' dolphins and chimps to a sapience equal to our  own, religious/intellectual/political conflict on earth between those who  believe that humanity evolved and those who believe that an alien race  uplifted us long ago only to abandon us, a vaguely unsettling futuristic  social structure where humans are divided into full citizens with rights  and 'probationers' without, and of course, a billion-year-old shared  culture of galactic races into which earth's young, self-taught, human  culture seems to have rudely and unpreparedly been thrust.  It's great  stuff...  but the problem here is the story.  What starts off as a kind of  sci-fi quest to fly on a 'sunship' into the sun to see if the 'ghosts' that  have been reported there might be the lost patron aliens who once uplifted  humanity evolves into a murder/sabatoge mystery.  That's fine by me, but  the 'whodunnit' part of the mystery just doesn't work very well in my book.  For the most part, it seems rather convoluted involving aspects of sci-fi  physics and alien politics that the reader is not sufficiently introduced  to in advance.  Even worse is the fact that the entire novel is told from  the perspective of a single protagonist-- except for one chapter early on--  in which the reader witnesses a conversation that... well, it doesn't  really reveal the *whole* of the whodunnit part of the mystery per se, but  it gives you too good of an idea of at least one of the key figures  involved. That just strikes me as a storytelling mistake that ought to have  been avoided.  All in all, this is a decent book, but it's more interesting  for the ideas that will come to full bloom in Brin's later uplift books,  than for the story itself.	2000-03-27
US	51062631	RB592WU0RCYDG	0345369076	752070176	Silver Pigs: A Detective Novel in Ancient Rome	Books	1	22	37	N	N	A Pale Shadow of Steven Saylor	I started reading this book several months ago, but found it so bad that I abandoned a third of the way through.  I recently decided to give it a second chance, and this time I managed to get to the end, but it wasn't  easy.  In fact, it was downright painful at times!  Part of it was the  absence of any historical 'feel' to a this purportedly historical mystery.   No, there weren't any obvious anachronisms (e.g. legionnaires wearing  sneakers) or anything like that, but neither is there any serious attempt  to represent a time and place that are historically and culturally  different from our own.  This might as well have been set in modern-day New  York and Alaska as in Rome and Roman Britain.  Adding to this is the  cornball, wannabe hard-boiled dialogue that sounds like a parody of 40's  pulp detective fiction-- stuff like: &quot;It's time we took you home,  baby.&quot;  That might be extremely funny in a Mel Brooks comedy sketch  set in Rome (had he ever decided to do _History of the World, Part II), but  in a purportedly serious historical mystery, I'm only inspired to laugh at  it-- not with it.<br />As for the plot itself, the actual mystery and the  detective work involved in unravelling it, well, it's decent enough once  Falco actually gets to Britain.  Nothing of particularly dazzling  complexity or subtlety, and the plot is in no way dependent upon-- or  connected to-- the historical setting.  But it does, at least, make  internal sense and keep up a high enough level of tension that folks who  are only only interested in the 'mystery' part of 'historical mystery' (and  who couldn't care less about the 'history' part) will probably find  something to enjoy in this.<br />Myself, I didn't enjoy it at all, but maybe  my expectations are so high as a result of reading so many authors who  actually put the 'historical' in 'historical mystery'-- authors like Ellis  Peters, Lynda Robinson, and Steven Saylor. Indeed, for folks who, like me,  have read Saylor's Roma Sub Rosa series before picking up Davis, I can only  say, &quot;Prepare to be disappointed.&quot; In terms of recreating a  believable, realistic, historical Roman world, Davis is only a pale, pale  shadow of Saylor.... at least if this book is any guide.	1999-07-29
