US	51066567	R1G3JE9DVFB816	1932857087	21138398	Real Rule of Four: The Unauthorized Guide to the New York Times #1 Bestseller	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Interesting Introduction to a Strange Work	Joscelyn Godwin has published a number of excellent books, the most important of which is probably his first ever English translation of the famous and mysterious Renaissance epic, the \\"Hypnerotomachia Poliphili\\".  This book, with its clouded origins and hidden meaning, forms the basis of the novel \\"The Rule of Four\\" which has managed to work itself onto bestseller lists on the coattails of \\"The Da Vinci Code\\", though its obscure esocteric subject is much less controversial.  Here Godwin explores the origins and authorship of the \\"Hypnerotomachia\\" in detail for the layreader and provides much interesting insight into this most beautiful and strange book.<br /><br />The \\"Hypnerotomachia\\" was published in Venice by the famous Renaissance humanist printer Aldus Manutius in 1499 and has intrigued and confounded readers and scholars alike for 500 years.  Godwin first gives an overview of the book's plot and discusses the 172 beautiful woodcut engravings that have made the book so fascinating to five centuries of readers.  The book is filled with long and painstakingly detailed descriptions of architecture, statues, parades, ruins, pagan rituals, and beautiful, ethereal, naked nymphs and goddesses.  In fact, it is this rather blatant erotic element that has certainly helped to make the book so popular.  This scandalous aspect of the book made it so popular in fact, that today it is almost impossible to find original copies with all of its engravings intact or without censorship.  Godwin also discusses at length the controversy regarding the authorship of the tome, today largely accepted by scholars and historians as the Venetian monk Francesco Colonna.  \\"The Rule of Four\\", Godwin points out, makes great use of fictional elements of the famous book, inventing codes and ciphers that are reputed to hide secret knowledge in its voluminous pages.  Godwin emphasizes that despite these fictional inventions that help make \\"The Rule of Four\\" entertaining, the real Hypnerotomachia is just as interesting without them.<br /><br />Godwin has written an engaging and accessible book on a difficult and bizarre work.  He has helped to clear up many of the mysteries that have clouded the famous book and its author and given fans of \\"The Rule of Four\\" more detail and information on the events, places, and people found in that novel.  This book is a must for anyone who enjoyed \\"The Rule of Four\\" and is looking to delve deeper into the strange world of Poliphilo and his dream quest for the elusive Polia.as interesting without them.    Godwin has written an engaging and accessible book on a difficult and bizarre work.  He has helped to clear up many of the mysteries that have clouded the famous book and its author and given fans of \\"The Rule of Four\\" more detail and information on the events, places, and people found in that novel.  This book is a must for anyone who enjoyed \\"The Rule of Four\\" and is looking to delve deeper into the strange world of Poliphilo and his dream quest for the elusive Polia.	2005-05-02
US	51066567	R1S0NIZETIFKEM	0486227510	972288537	Devils, Demons and Witchcraft	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Devilishly Delightful Illustrated Reference Work	This book is not meant to be an introduction to Wicca or a history of witchcraft and demonology.  It's intended purpose is simply to provide an illustrated reference work primarily for historians, teachers, artists, craftsman, and authors working in the area of witchcraft and demonology.<br /><br />That being said, the book is divided into twelve chapters, each dealing with various aspects of witchcraft, death, demons, and the occult and providing a plentiful cornucopia of illustrations, woodcuts, copperplates, and artwork representative of the subject at hand.  The works of Durer, Dore, and others appear together with illustrations from such famous demonological works such as Colin De Plancy's \\"Dictionnarie Infernal\\" and Francesco Maria Guazzo's \\"Compendium Maleficarum\\" as well as countless others from ancient to modern times.<br /><br />This is a first class illustrated reference book and will be useful to any number of those interested in the history of illustration of the Dark Arts.	2005-04-13
US	51066567	R6K22OLF2XF0N	0764154621	804210576	The Book of Alchemy: Learn the Secrets of the Alchemists to Transform Mind, Body, and Soul	Books	4	23	23	N	N	As Above, So Below...	\\"The Book of Alchemy\\" is a wonderfully illustrated, yet brief introduction to the world of the alchemists and their ancient quest to find The Philosopher's Stone, The Elixir of Life, and Oneness with the Universe.  This little book serves as a nice entry into this rather voluminous and complex material for the novice occultist or neophyte alchemist.<br /><br />This book essentially gives an overview of the history of the Great Work, from its mythical origins in ancient Egypt with Hermes Trismegistus, to modern practitioners of the art today.  Along the way we are treated to a miriad of beautiful color images and emblems from some of the most famous alchemical books and manuscripts.  The book also gives a short introduction to some of the most famous alchemists and their quest for the Philosopher's Stone.  Here we find the likes of Nicholas Flamel, Robert Fludd, Paracelsus, John Dee and even scientific giants like Issac Newton and Robert Boyle, both of whom were known to have dabbled heavily in alchemy.  The book also gives insight into the archetypal imagery that pervades alchemical lore and the symbolism that hints at the secret meaning of the 'Great Work'.<br /><br />This book is meant for those who may not have a deep grounding in the history of alchemy and those who are fluent in its mysteries may find it somewhat superficial.  Nevertheless, it is enjoyable for anyone interested in what some have called the precusor to modern science, but even more importantly, alchemy represents the first true attempts by mankind to explore the unknown mysteries of the universe.	2005-04-11
US	51066567	R24UA2KKH4FS6J	0801497183	953081582	Mephistopheles: The Devil in the Modern World	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Final Book of the Archfiend	\\"Mephistopheles\\" is the fourth and final volume in Jeffery Russell's excellent series on the history and myth of the Devil.  Here Russell examines the contemporary beliefs and myths of the Dark Lord in detail, from the Renaissance to the present day. Russell explorers not only traditional Christian views on the Devil, but also his incarnations in Islam, Judaism, and others.<br /><br />The idea of the Devil, the very personification of evil, has changed much since the early days of Judaism and Christianity.  By the dawn of the Renaissance, the Devil had undergone a kind of \\"rebirth\\" himself.  Though the onset of the early modern era had seen the beginnings of science and reason, superstition and religious persecution was at an all time high.  Russell examines the role of the Devil in the Reformation and during the height of the Witch Craze.  Though they differed on many points of theology, Catholics and Protestants definately agreed that Satan continued to be a very real and very dangerous foe.  Russell continues his story into the Enlightenment and the Age of Reason, which saw the Devil lose his teeth, followed by his romanticization in the 19th century as a rebellious anti-hero.<br /><br />Though still feared by the credulous and railed against in the pulpits by evangelicals, Satan has largely been reduced to a shadow of his former self, an advertising ploy whose imagery is used to sell everything from deviled ham to movie tickets.  Russell's books are generally considered the standard modern work on the history and myth of the Devil, and this volume examplifies why this is so.  Well worth checking out.	2005-04-06
US	51066567	R1QV9PSWHPT24T	0880296720	203949700	Cotton Mather on Witchcraft (Occult)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wonders of the Invisible World	This is a reprint of Cotton Mather's famous treatise, \\"The Wonders of the Invisible World\\", first published in 1693 as a defense of his position during the infamous Salem Witch Trials the year before which saw 19 people executed for practicing witchcraft.  it has long been held as an important piece of early American literature and also as evidence of Puritanical superstition and credulity.<br /><br />Mather was a devoted Anglican minister who completely believed in the existence of witches and demons and warned of the dangers posed to New England's \\"New Jerusalem\\" by the Archfiend Satan himself.  Mather was a direct witness to the happenings at Salem and here provides a fascinating account of the goings on at Salem, including the examinations of the accused and the \\"beweitched\\" girls who accused them during the Court of Oyer and Terminer.  Mather was forced to defend his support for the trials amidst growing skepticism concerning witchcraft in the closing years of the 17th century and this book is largely a result of the critcism leveled at him after the close of the trials.  Mather was heavily influenced by other earlier demonologists in his writings, particularly Joseph Glanvill, author of the famous \\"Sadducismus Triumphatus\\".<br /><br />Mather's writings on witchcraft are interesting not only for the information they give us about the Salem Trials, but also for the the image they give us of the fear and superstition that still existed in Puritan New England at the time.  Although belief in witches and demons was slowly fading away, it was not quite dead, and we have Reverend Mather in part to thank for that.	2005-03-30
US	51066567	R2X8UUW7P4QJQY	0781239540	953833301	Wonders of the Invisible World (Notable American Authors)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Mather's Defense of the Salem Witch Trials	This is a reprint of Cotton Mather's famous treatise, \\"The Wonders of the Invisible World\\", first published in 1693 as a defense of his position during the infamous Salem Witch Trials the year before which saw 19 people executed for practicing witchcraft. it has long been held as an important piece of early American literature and also as evidence of Puritanical superstition and credulity.<br /><br />Mather was a devoted Anglican minister who completely believed in the existence of witches and demons and warned of the dangers posed to New England's \\"New Jerusalem\\" by the Archfiend Satan himself. Mather was a direct witness to the happenings at Salem and here provides a fascinating account of the goings on at Salem, including the examinations of the accused and the \\"beweitched\\" girls who accused them during the Court of Oyer and Terminer. Mather was forced to defend his support for the trials amidst growing skepticism concerning witchcraft in the closing years of the 17th century and this book is largely a result of the critcism leveled at him after the close of the trials. Mather was heavily influenced by other earlier demonologists in his writings, particularly Joseph Glanvill, author of the famous \\"Sadducismus Triumphatus\\".<br /><br />Mather's writings on witchcraft are interesting not only for the information they give us about the Salem Trials, but also for the the image they give us of the fear and superstition that still existed in Puritan New England at the time. Although belief in witches and demons was slowly fading away, it was not quite dead, and we have Reverend Mather in part to thank for that.	2005-03-30
US	51066567	R3LMGO3CRF3EEA	0595167632	283435356	Johnny Logan: Shawnee Spy	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Another Fine Eckert Historical Novel	Allan Eckert's \\"Johnny Logan: Shawnee Spy\\" tells the story of a Shawnee Indian boy named Spemica Lawba and his brief but interesting role in history.<br /><br />Born in 1774 to the older sister of Tecumseh in the Shawnee's central Ohio village of Chillicothe, Spemica Lawba is thrust into a world turned upside down for the Indians who are desperately fighting for their land and for their very survival against an ever increasing flood of white settlers pouring into the Ohio Country.  An American militia force from Kentucky, led by General Benjamin Logan, attacks Chillicothe in 1786, burning the town to the ground and taking the young Spemica Lawba prisoner.  Logan later decides to adopt the Shawnee and gives him the name Johnny Logan.  Following the end of hostilities in the Ohio Valley, Johnny is returned to his native people, but soon finds himself at odds with his former family.  When Tecumseh begins to stir up the tribes against the United States before the outbreak of the War of 1812, Johnny decides to prove his loyalty to the Americans by serving as a spy against his own people.<br /><br />Eckert's historical novels are always good and a delight to read.  They also can help to introduce little known history to a much wider audience.  This book was long out of print, but is thankfully available again.  Recommended as an addition to his Winnging of America series, and to his great books \\"Dark and Bloody River\\" and \\"A Sorrow in Our Hearts\\".	2005-02-23
US	51066567	RVFUWJ7OVP8ZG	0789447118	856521550	Illustrated Dictionary of Religions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is that a Tibetan Buddhist Prayer Wheel?	The DK Illustrated Dictionary of Religions is an excellent visual reference guide to the world's religions, past and present.  It provides wonderful images of religious objects, symbols, and figures accompanied by a detailed summary of the history, beliefs, myths, and practices of each religion.  This book covers the big monotheistic religions like Christianity, Islam, and Judaism, as well as Hinduism, Buddhism, Confuscism, Native American shamanism, with an entire section on the anicent religions of the Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, and others.<br /><br />This book is fantastic in that even in it's brevity it is able to provide informative and interesting information on a variety of religious subjects and provide at least a cursory familiarity with the multitude of religious beliefs that have flurished over the ages.	2005-01-12
US	51066567	R3JEUB15CMGI33	040463544X	803569647	The Political History of the Devil (Ams Studies in the Eighteenth Century)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Defoe's Demonology	Daniel Defoe's \\"Political History of the Devil\\" was first published in 1726 and is part of a trilogy of books Defoe wrote towards the end of his life that address various occult subjects.  Here Defoe specifically discusses the history and influence of the Archfied, Satan, and his impact on human history.<br /><br />Defoe was a literal believer in the existence of the Devil as an agent of evil whose ultimate aim was the damnation of all mankind.  Defoe credits Old Scratch with guiding the events of history and the lives of men in order to ensure their spiritual damnation would parallel that of his own.  Defoe also criticizes the widespread disbelief in spirits and witches that defined his own age in terms of skepticism of the existence of malefic magic.  He quotes biblical scripture at length to support his beliefs and critiques extra-biblical sources on the history of the Devil, particularly Milton's \\"Paradise Lost\\".  Defoe argues that though ultimately subordinate to God, Satan's influence is pervasive amongst man.<br /><br />Defoe's works on demonology and the occult are seemingly at odds with his earlier works that embrace rationalism, but it can be argued that his theological and diabolical beliefs can help put an interesting perspective on his earlier works.  Though largely derivative of serveral important contemporary works on demonology and the occult, such as Joseph Glanvil's and John Beaumont's, Defoe's works are interesting and provide an intruiging look into the mind and beliefs of early 18th century society, one in which a belief in the powers of darkness was fading, but not yet extinguished.	2004-12-28
US	51066567	R2GFU64X68XQTE	0312330170	783598802	The Affair of the Poisons: Murder, Infanticide, and Satanism at the Court of Louis XIV	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Excellent Account of a Dark Episode In French History	Anne Somerset has done a fantastic job in bringing this bit of dark and forgotten history to the fore in the first serious work on this subject in decades.<br /><br />\\"The Affair of the Poisons\\" relates how in 1680, Paris society was thrown into an uproar as details came to light of a rash of magical potions and poisons being circulated from the Paris underground into the highest ranks of the French high society. As the police investigated further into what they thought to be outlandish rumours of satanic rituals and child sacrifice, a strange story began to take form around a number of high profile individuals, notably the jealously obssessed and now out-of-favor royal mistress, the Marquise de Montespan, concerning a plot to assasinate the King and Queen themselves. The Marquise was said to have turned to the performance of satanic rites of the Black Mass, using the blood of child sacrifices, freshly killed by the self proclaimed abortionist and sorceress known as La Voisin. When her most desperate attempts to win the King back through black magic failed, the Marquise is said to have turned to murder, first of her competitors at court, and finally hatching a plot to poison the King himself. The details themselves are never truly know as the journals, testimonies, and eyewitness accounts taken down by the King's appointed investigators were locked away and later destoryed by the King himself, in a desperate attempt to avoid a potentially ruinous scandal that threatened to shake the very foundations of the monarchy.<br /><br />The Affair of the Poisons is a fascinating look into the strange world of the French court and the lengths one woman went to maintain her exalted status among the glittering yet hopelessly vain and self-destructive upper eschelon of French society. Perhaps the truth of these dark events of history will never be known for certain, but whether or not the Marquise was indeed guilty of the miriad of vile crimes attributed to her, her name has come down through the centuries as synonymous with evil.  Sommerset has done an excellent job of retelling this tale with attention to detail, particularly the chapters concerning the highly complex intrigues of the court of Louis XIV and the machinations of his many mistresses.  It also provides an fascinating glipse into the dark underworld of Parisan society and the many shady characters who inhabited it.as come down through the centuries as synonymous with evil.  Sommerset has done an excellent job of retelling this tale with attention to detail, particularly the chapters concerning the highly complex intrigues of the court of Louis XIV and the machinations of his many mistresses.  It also provides an fascinating glipse into the dark underworld of Parisan society and the many shady characters who inhabited it. <br />	2004-12-03
US	51066567	R1N2IGPBOMY4YR	0385513755	315416156	The Da Vinci Code: Special Illustrated Edition	Books	4	171	213	N	N	Still Stirring Things Up...	Dan Brown's \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" is an interesting book for a number of reasons.  It is entertaining yet essentially light reading. It is also filled with tantalizing bits of information about the history of Christianity and a miriad of other related topics including paganism, Gnosticism, The Knights Templar, art history, and the Holy Grail.<br /><br />The most fascinating aspect of this novel is the overwhelming public interest and controversy surrounding many of the assertions Brown makes in this book.  It may be safe to assume that most people have little or no previous exposure to these topics and it certainly has generated extreme controversy in Christian circles. There are no less than 20 books in print that attempt to support or refute the information found in \\"The Da Vinci Code\\".  I have never seen such polarization over a work of fiction before.  That said, this illustrated edition is just the kind of thing to not only make the reading experience more enjoyable and interesting, but to continue to stir things up by providing visual references for the works of art, architecture, and religious symbology discussed in the text.  Here it is pretty hard to dispute some of the things Brown talks about when it is staring at you in living color.  This would seem to give the book's many detractors more work to do also.<br /><br />\\"The Da Vinci Code\\" is not great literature by any means, but it is entertaining nonetheless.  I would recommend it especially for the simple fact that it presents ideas that make people think.  This was obviously not the original intent of this work of fiction, but has turned out to be one of its strongest selling points.	2004-11-15
US	51066567	R3OHEJFJ396D6M	0750931868	368650564	A History of Terror: Fear &amp; Dread Through the Ages	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A History of Fear	This interesting book looks at the origins of  fear and terror and places it in the context of human history and how these have manifested themselves through the ages.<br /><br />The author shows that since fear is one of mankind's basest and most primordial emotions, it can exert great influence on not only an individual basis, but on entire societies and civilizations.  Fear can be used as a political tool to control the masses, as the Church did during the Middle Ages to combat the encroaching Muslims as well as \\"dangerous\\" heretical sects like the Cathars.  Later, during the Renaissance, fear had people convinced that Europe was being plagued by witches and demons.  Many of our oldest myths and legends regarding werewolves and vampires, etc, can be traced back to our simple human fears of death and dying, fears of the unknown wilderness and it inhabitants...perhaps even simply, our fear of the dark and the unknown and dangerous mysteries it contains.  Thus, we give these fears a familiar face to better confront them.<br /><br />Fear and terror are irrational and, left unchecked, can override even our greatest reason.  This book provides an intriguing insight into these often misunderstood and powerful forces.	2004-11-03
US	51066567	R2MO2G485TMJY2	0962191000	681376649	Moldavite: Starborn Stone of Transformation	Books	4	48	52	N	N	Tektites in History and Myth	This book is an interesting curiosity.  While much of the book is devoted to the spiritual and holistic properties many find in the green tektite known as Moldavite, there is some very interesting material buried deep in the pages here which I feel are the true value of this book.<br />The authors give a background in the story of the ancient green gemstone and their profound experiences with it.  But the really interesting material starts to crop up in the chapters dealing with Moldavite's mysterious connection with ancient myth and legend, particularly its relationship to the Grail Legend.  The authors briefly mention the works of Nicholas Roerich and Baron Richard de Touch-Skadding, both of whom speculated on the mythic origins of tektites in general, and Moldavite in particular.  The authors explore the strange connections Moldavite has to the myths of the Holy Grail, the Stone of Shambhala, as well as the Emerald Tablet and Philosophers Stone of alchemistic lore.  In fact, there are intruiging elements in several legends which point to an extraterrestrial origin to these  mythical objects which sounds remarkably like Moldavite.  Emma Jung, wife of the famous psychoanalyst Carl Jung, wrote at length on the Grail Legend and she also hinted at a possible meteoric origin for the elusive object which, she notes, is described in Eschenbach's famous work &quot;Parzifal&quot; as being a green stone which fell from Heaven.  The book also highlights various other tektite myths and legends from across the globe and finds that humans have long been fascinated by these mystical objects since the dawn of prehistory.  This all makes for fascinating reading.	2004-03-30
US	51066567	R1ETGNI6Y6U6LI	0801878926	73070462	War under Heaven: Pontiac, the Indian Nations, and the British Empire	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Good Analysis of Pontiac's War...With Reservations	Gregory Dowd's \\"War Under Heaven\\" is a decent scholarly analysis of the Indian conflict popularly known as Pontiac's War, that bloody uprising against the British along the Eastern frontier in the years immediately after the end of the French and Indian War.  Pontiac's War was a result of many factors following France's defeat in the contest for North America, most of which surrounded the uncertainy of the Indians future in an empire now controlled by the British, who unlike the French before them, did not generally look upon the Indians with favor.  The result of this uncertainy of status and spirituality led to an especially sanguinary confrontation between the Indians and their British neighbors, or as the Indians saw them, overlords.<br />Dowd questions the traditionally accepted causes of the war, especially the conclusions of authors like Francis Parkman and Howard Peckham, which placed the ultimate causes of the war at the feet of General Jeffery Amherst and his anti-Indian policies of witholding presents and weapons from the tribes, materials that they had not only come to expect as a matter of course, but were now wholely dependent on for their survival.  Dowd attempts to draw a connection to the role of the Delaware Prophet Neolin and his influence on Pontiac and the other western tribes as they struggled to maintain their lifestyle in the face of a an uncertain future.  The author maintains that the question of Indian status and prestige lie at the root of the conflict as the Indians tried to keep the balance between themselves and the British which they had always enjoyed with their previous allies, the French.  He also attempts to enhance the role played by the spiritual aspect of the war, showing that Pontiac and his followers were greatly influenced by the teachings of the Delaware Prophet and his message of a return to native technologies and lifeways and a rejection of white influence.  This is definately not a military history of the war so much as an analaysis of the causes and outcomes of Pontiac's War and the way Indian-white relations evolved over the course of the years 1760-1765.<br />While the book is well written and researched, I had some serious reservations with some of the conclusions Dowd draws.  For one thing, Dowd seriously downplays the significance of Henry Bouquet's success at the Battle of Bushy Run, claiming it was more a draw than the important victory most historians make it out to be.  He also downplays the importance of Bouquets expedition into the Ohio Country in 1764, a march that is usually credited with having ended the war and eliciting proclamations of peace from the Ohio tribes.  Here Dowd implies that far from cowing the tribes, Bouquet forms a shaky peace with the yet hostile native enemies whom he knows he can not best in open combat.<br />The biggest problem, however, lies with his almost revisionist treatment of Colonel John Bradstreet's expedition to Detroit which took place simultaneously with Bouquet's march.  Historians from Francis Parkmen to Fred Anderson have characterized Bradstreet's expedition as an unqualified disaster.  Bradstreet disobeyed his orders from Gage to attack the Shawnee and Delaware villages along the Scioto and attempted to create his own ill-conceived peace accord with the Ohio tribes in a clear affront to his nemesis William Johnson.  Bradstreet is generally remembered by history as being the conqueror of Fort Frontenac during the late war with France, but here he proves himself to be an ambitious yet incompetent bungler who's greatest affront comes at Detroit when, enraged at Pontiac's absence from a peace council Bradstreet has called with the disaffected tribes, the colonel proceeds to tomahawk to bits a peace belt Pontiac has sent in his stead, an act that one historian has compared to a diplomat spitting on a proposed peace treaty.  Bradstreet also unwisely sends poor Captain Thomas Morris on a fool's errand up the Maumee and Washbash Rivers, into the lion's den so to speak, in an attempt to bring Pontiac to the peace table.  Along the way Morris is beaten and nearly burned at the stake by hostile Indians, only to escape to Detroit in failure, angering a deluded Bradstreet by presenting undeniable evidence that the peace he believes he has forged is a total fraud.  Bradstreet then leaves Detroit in disgust, is angered further by the Indians failure to show up with prisoners at Sandusky as promised, and then proceeds to abandon half his force on his return to Niagara after many of his bateauxs are foolishly sunk in a storm on Lake Erie when he fails to take the necessary precautions to protect his men and equipment.  Dowd, however, portrays Bradstreet as an unsung hero, a man maligned by his superiors who are angered by his mission's lack of bloodshed and chastisement.  Whether or not this is an accurate view of Bradstreet is questionable, but Dowd seems to support much of the rest of his arguements soundly.ers, into the lion's den so to speak, in an attempt to bring Pontiac to the peace table.  Along the way Morris is beaten and nearly burned at the stake by hostile Indians, only to escape to Detroit in failure, angering a deluded Bradstreet by presenting undeniable evidence that the peace he believes he has forged is a total fraud.  Bradstreet then leaves Detroit in disgust, is angered further by the Indians failure to show up with prisoners at Sandusky as promised, and then proceeds to abandon half his force on his return to Niagara after many of his bateauxs are foolishly sunk in a storm on Lake Erie when he fails to take the necessary precautions to protect his men and equipment.  Dowd, however, portrays Bradstreet as an unsung hero, a man maligned by his superiors who are angered by his mission's lack of bloodshed and chastisement.  Whether or not this is an accurate view of Bradstreet is questionable, but Dowd seems to support much of the rest of his arguements soundly.	2004-03-04
US	51066567	RO5IEHSBYT9LL	1564409937	419905858	New England Indians (Illustrated Living History Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good Introduction to the Early Indians of New England	This nicely illustrated book provides an excellent introduction to the history and culture of the early Indian inhabitants of the New England region. Stretching back to 30,000BC, the book opens with descriptions of the first inhabitants of North America, the Paleo Indians, and continues up through the Archaic and later Woodland cultures, finally concluding with the early years of contact between the eastern Algonquians and Europeans in the region that would become Massachusetts. This book is filled with well researched information and detailed illustrations and depictions of everything from spear and arrow points, to flintknapping techniques, clothing, cookware, and religious rites.<br />This book is perfect for someone with little or no previous knowledge of pre-historic Indian culture in North Americ, but can be a nice addition to a collection of someone already familiar with the subject and is well worth the price. It should lead the interested reader to even more in-depth works on the subject.	2004-02-12
US	51066567	R2ZGF5U3AC6Z9P	0871060043	419905858	New England Indians	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Introduction to the Early Indians of New England	This nicely illustrated book provides an excellent introduction to the history and culture of the early Indian inhabitants of the New England region.  Stretching back to 30,000BC, the book opens with descriptions of the first inhabitants of North America, the Paleo Indians, and continues up through the Archaic and later Woodland cultures, finally concluding with the early years of contact between the eastern Algonquians and Europeans in the region that would become Massachusetts.  This book is filled with well researched information and detailed illustrations and depictions of everything from spear and arrow points, to flintknapping techniques, clothing, cookware, and religious rites.<br />This book is perfect for someone with little or no previous knowledge of pre-historic Indian culture in North Americ, but can be a nice addition to a collection of someone already familiar with the subject and is well worth the price.  It should lead the interested reader to even more in-depth works on the subject.	2004-02-11
US	51066567	R32QDKPXCQB2GM	1564406253	319727523	Woodland Indians (Illustrated Living History Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Great Illustrated History of the Woodland Indian Culture	This is another of C. Keith Wilbur's illustrated history books, this one dealing with the Woodland Indian culture of North America.  This book is filled with many wonderful illustrations and depictions of everything from spear and arrow points, to clothing, cookware, weapons, and religious rites.  It follows the same general outline as his other book on the New England Indians, beginning with the appearance of the first Paleo Indians in North America about 30,000BC and chronicles the evolving cultures from the Archaic to later Woodland cutlures.  Wilbur provides excellent introductions to the mysterious Adena and Hopewell people that dominated the Ohio Valley region over 2000 years ago, as well as the equally fascinating Mississippian Temple Mound culture that relected the grandeur and mystery of the Maya of Mexico.<br />This is an excellent book for someone with little or no prior knowledge of the early Woodland Indians and their culture, but is just as enjoyable for the initiated as well.  It should lead the interested reader to more in-depth works on the subject	2004-02-11
US	51066567	R13WJ5C52IRUQ6	0805061215	627486957	Tecumseh: A Life	Books	3	30	30	N	N	Tecumseh: A Life...Better the Second Time Around	John Sudgen's &quot;Tecumseh: A Life&quot; is one of the more recent biographies of the famous Shawnee leader.  Upon first reading of this book, I was not greatly impressed as the text was rather dry and languid.  However, after delving more deeply into other works on Tecumseh's background and history of the War of 1812, I felt this work perhaps deserved another look.<br />Tecumseh of course is the famous Shawnee war leader who resisted American expansion into the Northwest Territory in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  He has been the subject of many books and movies, many of them fanciful presentations of the mythical image that has grown up around the man that many have called the greatest Indian leader of all time.  Tecumseh's dream of a powerful pan-Indian confederacy was visionary in scope as he hoped to unite not just a few, but ALL the Indian tribes east of the Missisippi and beyond against the flood of white settlers pouring across the Appalachian Mountains.  Tecumseh came closer than any others to succeeding in that vision, but the British defeat in the War of 1812 and Tecumseh's death at the Battle of Moraviantown in 1813 ended that dream forever.<br />Sudgen's book helps to dispel many of the myths and tries to present the known facts about Tecumseh's life.  While not nearly as engaging as Allan Eckert's &quot;A Sorrow In Our Hearts&quot;, this book serves as a decent, if still somewhat slow going telling of the life of an undeniably capable leader.  Sudgen also takes time to bash research of other historians who have done work on Tecumseh, ostensibly to help clarify the many myths and misconceptions that have grown up around the Shawnee leader in the past 200 hundred years, but the chapter comes off as more of a rant against other authors and diminishes the impact of the book.  After reading Sudgen's work, I would recommend checking out not only Eckert's books on Tecumseh, but also &quot;A Wampum Denied&quot; by Sandy Antal and &quot;The Shawnee Prophet&quot; by R. David Edmunds for a more in-depth understanding of Tecumseh's life and times.Prophet&quot; by R. David Edmunds for a more in-depth understanding of Tecumseh's life and times.	2003-10-28
US	51066567	R2T0375GOJIT3M	0791411443	413915693	Women's Secrets (Suny Series, Environmental Public Policy) (Suny Series in Medieval Studies)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An Interesting Medieval Book of Secrets	This is a translation of a very famous book of secrets written by a somewhat mysterious author known to history as \\"Pseudo\\"-Albertus Magnus.  This work dates from at least the 13th century and was originally attributed to the real Albertus Magnus , Saint Albert the Great, who was himself a prolific author on natural philosophy and the occult.  This present work was later found to be a forgery by someone who may have been a disciple of the Saint, but not the man himself.<br />\\"De Secretis Mulierum\\" is what is known as a Book of Secrets, a compendium of medicinal knowledge, magic, and folklore very common in the late middle ages and the Renaissance.  These books were frequently reprinted and sold throughout Europe, spreading \\"occult\\" knowledge of medical cures, and the healing properties of various gems, stones, herbs, and elixirs.  This work deals especially with medical lore specific to women and reproduction and as such a \\"dangerous\\" subject raised more than a few eyebrows, this work eventually found itself on the Church's Index of Prohibited Books, which more than guarenteed its popularity.<br />This is one of the most popular of these fascinating books and sheds light on the history of early medicine and its often subtle connection to magic and the occult in the centuries before the scientific revolution.	2003-07-15
US	51066567	R2U05KNH4Y95KQ	0486419428	172402563	The Vampire in Lore and Legend (Dover Occult)	Books	3	46	46	N	N	Early Work on Vampire Myths and Legends	This is a re-titled reprint of Montague Summers' 1928 work &quot;The Vampire in Europe&quot;, one of the most complete early studies of European vampire myths and legends.<br />This book documents many of the legends regarding vampirism dating from ancient Greek and Roman times.  It covers a vast geographical area of Europe, including England and Ireland, and includes topics on the creation, powers, and desctuction of vampires as recorded in various folklore and myth.  Summers' surprisingly informative footnotes make this an interesting starting point for those wishing to delve deeper into the mythology of vampirism.  Summers' writing can be verbose at times, and he tends to quote entire passages in full from his sources, which can sometimes be a benefit but at others an annoyance.  However, the sheer amount of information contained here can be worth the effort.<br />Montague Summers was an eccentric 20th century occult historian who was one of the first authors to do serious studies of the occult and its role in history.  Summers' went on to write another interesting book on vampirism &quot;The Vampire: His Kith and Kin&quot; in 1929 which may be of interest to readers of this book.  He is also the author of a large body of works on the history of witchcraft and demonology including translations of many early 16th and 17th century works on the occult.	2003-07-12
US	51066567	RO8XP7SM8I3K	0766136302	912031576	Demonolatry	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Important 16th Century Work on Demonology	This is the Montague Summers' edition of Nicholas Remy's infamous work \\"Daemonolatreiae libri tres\\", first published in France in 1595 and is generally considered one of the most important early works on demons and witches.<br />Remy was a judge for the Duchy of Lorraine and tried many hundreds of witchcraft cases, sending as many as 800 of the accused to a slow and terrible death at the stake.  As a result of his vast \\"experience\\", this present work was considered one of the most influenctial of the many works on witchcraft and demonology that came about as a result of the great witchcraze of the 16th and 17th centuries.  It definately influenced the work of several later demonologists such as Francesco Maria Guazzo and Martin Del Rio.  Remy's work described a number of witchcraft cases and emphasised the truth of the diabolic pact supposedly made between a witch and the Devil himself and the horrible acts claimed to take place at the witches Sabbat.  It also highlighted the fact that many witches were forced into the Devil's service either through trickery or violence, which was a change from several earlier works which claimed that witches made a willing choice to do evil.  This in no way meant that Remy urged mercy for those who chose the dark path.  Quite the opposite was true in fact.  Remy draws on many ancient and contemporary sources for his arguments and stressed that the evil power of witches and other adherents to the Devil must be thoroughly rooted out of society by rope and flame.<br />Remy is generally considered one of the more virulent demonologists, in line with other anti-witch writers like Jean Bodin or Heinrich Kramer.  His work was influential until the end of the 17th century, when a belief in witches and demons was on a steep decline, and this book was frequently cited and reprinted.  Montague Summers, the eccentric early 20th century occult historian, lauds praise on Remy for his determination to root out witchery by any means possible, even if that meant the torture and death of innocents.  While repugnant to our modern morality, this work is important to an understanding of the witchcraze of the early modern period.even if that meant the torture and death of innocents.  While repugnant to our modern morality, this work is important to an understanding of the witchcraze of the early modern period.	2003-05-02
US	51066567	R3QCE5YQM2HMHH	0807611379	968353107	Witchcraft at Salem	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Interesting Theory on the Salem Witch Trials	Chadwick Hansen's \\"Witchcraft at Salem\\" gives an interesting if controversial account of the infamous Salem Witch Trials that took place in Salem. Massachusetts in 1692. Hansen essentially claims that at least some of the accused persons who were tried and eventually hanged for witchcraft were, in fact, practicing witches.<br />Using contemporary accounts and the trial documents, Hansen relates the usual details of the rise and fall of the terrible dealings that took place that year in Salem Village. It chronicles how early in the year two young girls, the daughter and niece of Samuel Parris, the local minister, inexplicably fell ill and began experiencing terrible \\"fits\\" and suffering visions of nocurnal visitations by what the girls claimed were local witches. The girls had reportedly been experimenting with simple egg yolk divination, under the guide of the Parris' slave Tituba, a mixed-blood Arawak Indian from Barbados (not a full blooded African as has often been reported) to tell the identity of their future husbands. After being being accused of being a witch by the girls and beaten by Reverand Parris, Tituba confessed to not only being a witch, but having made a pact with the Devil himself. Tituba then went on to implicate two other women, Sarah Good and Sarah Osborne. From there, the trials would sprial out of control into a bloodbath as neighbor accused neighbor and old jealousies lead to vengence. In all 19 people would be executed and at least 4 others would die as a result of the trials.<br />There has been much written on this popular subject, much of it contrary to each other in their theories of the origins and causes of the witchcraze. Theories have ranged from hysteria, food poisoning, to outright lies and falsehood. Hensen takes the view that several of the accused, notably Tituba, Bridget Bishop, and the Rev. George Burroghs (and perhaps others) were in fact practicing some form of witchcraft. He claims that while there is no direct evidence of Diabolic witchcraft or pacts with the Devil, several of these individuals could have been practicing forms of folk magic that would have opened them up to accusations. Tituba may have helped the girls perform a harmless form of divination by floating egg yolks in a glass of water to tell the girls romantic futures, though this type of thing was probably not uncommon in 17th century New England. Bridget Bishop was said to have had \\"poppets\\" hidden in her house, which could have been used as a form of image magic, and George Burroughs, a former minister in Salem, was rumored to have studied the occult, perhaps a bit too eagerly for his fellow townsfolk. Hensen's arguements are interesting but open to debate. Most other scholars who have written on this subject tend to dispute these theories citing lack of credible evidence to sustain the belief that any such witchery truly was taking place. While some of these individuals may have had some shady dealings or secretly practiced folk magic, one thing is certain, they were not witches. Despite this, Hensen does leave the door slightly cracked to the possibility of something more sinister going on in Salem then is generally admitted, which does make for some interesting reading.Diabolic witchcraft or pacts with the Devil, several of these individuals could have been practicing forms of folk magic that would have opened them up to accusations. Tituba may have helped the girls perform a harmless form of divination by floating egg yolks in a glass of water to tell the girls romantic futures, though this type of thing was probably not uncommon in 17th century New England. Bridget Bishop was said to have had \\"poppets\\" hidden in her house, which could have been used as a form of image magic, and George Burroughs, a former minister in Salem, was rumored to have studied the occult, perhaps a bit too eagerly for his fellow townsfolk. Hensen's arguements are interesting but open to debate. Most other scholars who have written on this subject tend to dispute these theories citing lack of credible evidence to sustain the belief that any such witchery truly was taking place. While some of these individuals may have had some shady dealings or secretly practiced folk magic, one thing is certain, they were not witches. Despite this, Hensen does leave the door slightly cracked to the possibility of something more sinister going on in Salem then is generally admitted, which does make for some interesting reading.	2003-05-01
US	51066567	R2FT8AG6XVF1L5	0874717620	703580450	Pandaemonium, 1684	Books	4	3	3	N	N	17th Century Defense of the Belief in Diabolic Witchcraft	This is a reprint of the Montague Summers' edition of Richard Bovet's \\"Pandaemonium, or the Devil's Cloyster\\".  Originally published in 1684, this work was one of the later works publushed in defence of the declining belief in the existence of witches and demons.<br />Bovet was a known anti-papist, and his strong views against Catholics can be seen throughout this work which openly equates Cathoticism with diabolism.  This was a popular view in Anglican England at this time as many were suspicious of the rise of the Catholic Stuarts to the English throne and of the growing power of Catholic France under Louis XIV.  This being said, this book draws on earlier works on witchcraft to makes its point that witches and their evil ilk continue to walk the earth and threathen good Christian citizens.  It argues against the dangers of Sadducism, that is, a rejection in the belief of spirits and witches, which some feared would lead down the road to blatant atheism. The second part of this work includes a number of interesting folkloric tales of witches and diabolic pacts.<br />Bovet's work draws heavily on the work of Joseph Glanvill, particularly his popular \\"Sadducismus Triumphatus\\".  It was one of the last learned treatises defending a belief in witchcraft, as by the early 18th century, such views were much discredited among mainstream scholars.  This edition was edited and republished by the eccentric early 20th century occult historian Montague Summers.	2003-05-01
US	51066567	RRUTTDRBMQC9N	0820110213	349591250	Saducismus Triumphatus: Or, Full and Plain Evidence Concerning Witches and Apparitions	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Early Investigations of Witches, Ghosts, and Poltergeists	The \\"Saducismus Triumphatus\\" of Joseph Glanvill, originally published in 1681, is one of the seminal works on witches, demons, ghosts, and other paranormal happenings. Glanvill was a distinguished member of the famous Royal Society (of which Isaac Newton was a member) and was disturbed by the rising skepticism and disbelief concerning demons and witches in the late 17th century. Glanvill believed, perhaps justly, that a rising disbelief in ghosts and spirits would eventually lead to a disbelief in Christianity. Glanvill, as an active opponent to Atheism, set out to prove, using scientific means, that ghosts and demons were in fact real, and continued to be a menace to a good Christian society. In doing so, Glanvill produced what has been called the first book on psychical research and what is generally considered the most influential of all English works on witchcraft and the paranormal.<br />Glanvill relates a number of stories that he collected from friends and colleagues concerning witchery, demons, and other supernatural beings, though he himself witnessed one first hand. Glanvill personally visited the Mompesson house and claimed to witness the doings of the famous Demon Drummer of Tedworth, supposedly the disembodied spirit of a dead soldier who was thought to haunt the place. The other tales deal with other interesting incidents of levitations, flying witches, sabbats, and much more. It is understandable why this work was so popular in its day despite the growing disbelief in the existence of witches.<br />As noted below, Glanvill's works were highly influential on the Boston clergyman Cotton Mather and were referenced in his \\"Wonders of the Invisible World\\", a defence of the Salem Witch Trials published shortly after that infamous affair. Glanvill's attempt to use science and reason to empirically document the supernatural was a first and this book is a valuable addition to the literature of the paranormal.	2003-04-30
US	51066567	R39WMRD017NQGM	0140288716	267948031	The Falcon (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	The Best and Most Complete Indian Captivity Narrative	\\"The Falcon\\" is the autobiography of Shaw-Shaw-Wa Be-Na-Se or John Tanner, a White Indian captured by the Shawnee along the Ohio River in 1789 and later sold to an Ojibwa family in northern Michigan.  He went on to live a long and fascinating life among the Indians of the Old Northwest working as a trapper for the Hudson Bay Company and serving as the interpreter at the trading post at Sault St. Marie.  He spent some time searching out his white family in Kentucky before returning to Michigan to be with his Indian children, forever spurning the white way of life.  He went on to write this narrative in 1830 shortly before becoming a murder suspect and disappearing into the north woods forever.<br />Tanner's narrative is truly amazing for it's matter-of-fact style and the wealth of information it contains on every facet of Indian life in the late 18th and early 19th century including hunting, family life, Indian-white relations, foodways, views on war and murder, even attitudes toward sexual orientation.  Tanner tells a story from the point of view of a man who has lived a hard life but is determined to live it as well as he is able.  He makes no romantic notions about the Indians nor does he have sentimental longings for his white family.  Unlike other famous captivity narratives like those of Mary Rowlandson, James Smith, or Oliver Spencer, this story is of the unredeemed captive who willingly chooses to embrace the neo-lithic lifestyle and the hardships that such a life entails, but makes no regrets of his life choices.<br />The historical and ethnographical information contained here alone makes it worthwhile reading, but the pure human content the author puts into this work makes it truly great.	2003-04-15
US	51066567	R39VKC6B6K9AO4	0822953099	212041357	Guns at the Forks (Pitt Paperback ; 152)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Forks of the Ohio in the French and Indian War	This is a well done account of the bloody history of the Forks of the Ohio, that little spot of ground where the Monongahela and Alleghany Rivers converge to form the Ohio at the point where Pittsburgh stands today.  This area was the scene of a heated dispute which lead ultimately to the outbreak of the French and Indian War as three cultures clashed over control of the Ohio Country.<br />In 1753, George Washington led a party of men to demand the withdrawl of French forces from this much disputed land.  Washington was one of the first to comment on the military and economic value of the site and demonstrated the English willingness to fight for control of this desirable land.  The Indians, caught between the clashing French and English armies, sought only to live in peace on their own lands.  Washington would go on to fail miserably at Fort Neccessity in 1754, as would General Braddock on the Monongahela a year later.  It was only after the Ohio Indians were convinced to abandon their support of the French at Fort Dusquene in 1758 that Forbes' Expedition was able to successfully take the Forks.<br />Fort Pitt would go on to importance again during the American Revolution but would never possess the strategic value it had in prior days.  This book gives an excellent account of the many men and events that helped shaped what would ultimately become the United States.	2003-04-10
US	51066567	R1JO476Q64NTNS	0806127171	670694363	A Narrative of the Life of Mrs. Mary Jemison	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Fantastic Indian Captivity Narrative	This book is an incredible account of the life and times of Mary Jemison, a white woman taken captive during the French and Indian War and adopted into the Seneca tribe of the Iroquois in western New York.  This tale covers her more than 70 years living among them through many of the most vital years of the long history of the Iroquois Confederacy.<br />In November 1823, when she was in her 80s, Mary Jemison, at the urging of many of the friendly local inhabitants, gave her amazing life story to James Seaver to publish for posterity.  Though his truthfulness in some details of that account has often been called into question, this book is one of the most important and complete of any of the Indian captivity narratives to come out of the period between the French and Indian War and the War of 1812, which most historians mark as the end of the period of influence of the Eastern Woodland tribes.  This account gives unequalled insight into the Seneca Indians and their ways including religion, food, hunting, warfare, culture, etc.<br />Mary had many opportunities to leave the Indians and return to white civilization but chose not to do so and thus was witness to some of the most amazing events in the history of her adopted people.  Her tale is important to not only historians and ethnologists, but to the general public itself as it is a truly amazing story of triumph and tragedy for a proud people struggling to survive in the face of overwhelming odds as a young United States continued to expand, forever extinguishing their way of life.	2003-03-27
US	51066567	R17WBVYGFA9WW2	0380806436	376951240	Partisans and Redcoats: The Southern Conflict That Turned the Tide of the American Revolution	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting, but didn't live up to expectations	Walter Edgar's \\"Partisans and Recoats\\" purports to tell the story of the Revolutionary War in the southern colonies, and to some extent it does, but concentrates primarily on the fighting in the backcountry of South Carolina in the years 1780-1781 between the bitterly divided loyalist and patriot partisans who turned the backwoods of the colony into a bloody war zone.<br />The book gives a brief history of the violence that threatened the stability of the colony in the years just after the French and Indian War.  From the conflicts between outlaws, Regulators, and Moderators, grew the resentment and animoisty between the backwoods Scots-Irish frontiersmen and the more established Anglican Tidewater population.  These political and religious differences soon carried over into the war of the rebellion as loyalists and patriots spent many years of the war butchering each other after the British invaded in 1780.  Edgar goes on to emphasize his belief that, more than any other event in the war in South Carolina, that the rebel victory at Huck's Defeat was the true turning point in the war that helped to raise the patriot cause, leading to the Battle of King's Mountain and ultimate victory.<br />This is a short book and one that seems to eschew details of the truly momentous events during the war in the South.  It gives short shrift to the Battle of King's Mountain, where major Patrick Ferguson's Tories were crushed by the Over Mountain Men in a defeat that, in my opinion, was the real decisive and psychological victory that helped turn the tide against the British in the South by depriving them of the loyalist support Cornwallis desperately needed to bolster his efforts to subjugate the Carolinas.  It barely even mentions Cowpens and Guilford Courthouse.  This book is interesting for its attention to the little known events that shook the Carolina backcountry during the bloodiest years of the war, but leaves out too much detail and seems to provide little more than introductory material on a complex subject.roductory material on a complex subject.	2003-03-14
US	51066567	R3TJFFM86HZZD6	0486249018	94527248	Captured By The Indians: 15 Firsthand Accounts, 1750-1870	Books	5	90	97	N	N	Excellent Collection of Indian Captivity Narratives	This is a short collection of some of the most famous Indian captivity narratives written during the late 18th and 19th centuries when warfare raged between white settlers and the native Indian inhabitants of North America.  These narratives are not only interesting and entertaining as drama, but are invaluable to historians and ethnographers as they provide some of the best first-hand accounts of life among the native tribes of the United States at a time when they were being wiped out by white expansion.<br />These narratives show what life was like as an Indian, including all the blood and horror as well as the genuine kindness and devotion inherent in any human society.  You will note that many captivity accounts were in many ways positive experiences for the captives who were adopted into a tribe and treated with the love and respect they would accord any of their own people.  Such is the case with men like James Smith who spent five years living with the Ohio Indians along Lake Erie.  These tales were popular in their own time for providing an entertaining escape for people who were both fearful yet fascinated by the Indians and their \\"savage\\" ways.  From these accounts we learn much about Indian lifeways, food, culture, and religion.  We also learn of the cruel barbarities that the Indians could inflict on their enemies, as we see in the tale of Dr. John Knight who witnessed the horrific torture and death of Col. William Crawford in 1782, or the daring escape of John Slover, who had spent many years among the Shawnee and Wyandot as a captive and who later escaped and returned to wage war against his former captors, only to be retaken after the Battle of Sandusky.  A slow and terrible death awaited any escaped captive who fell back into Indian hands.  But what is really interesting is the number of captives who spent many years living, happily in many cases, with the Indians, showing that they were not the totally savage heathens protrayed in many boosk and movies, but a society of human beings who could love and hate as equally as any other.<br />This is a valuble introduction to a fascinating genere of litereature and is an important part of history that should not be overlooked.  To anyone interested in delving deeper into this subject I would also recommend checking out Archibald Loudon's \\"Indian Narratives\\" as well as \\"A History of Jonathan Alder\\".movies, but a society of human beings who could love and hate as equally as any other.  <br />This is a valuble introduction to a fascinating genere of litereature and is an important part of history that should not be overlooked.  To anyone interested in delving deeper into this subject I would also recommend checking out Archibald Loudon's \\"Indian Narratives\\" as well as \\"A History of Jonathan Alder\\".	2003-03-04
US	51066567	R3LCH7CUFB85LP	0822952017	51672452	Council Fires On the Upper Ohio	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Dry Account of the Indian Wars of the Old Northwest	Downes \\"Council Fires on the Upper Ohio\\" was written in 1940 and here reprinted in paperback, making it accessible to a modern audience. It is concerned with the wars of empire that took place in the Ohio Country from 1700-1795, a time when the land that is today the states of Ohio and western Pennsylvania were part of a vast untamed wilderness inhabited by numerous Indian tribes who fought to keep the land from the encroaching white settlers. It shows the interdependant nature of the early white settlers and their Indian neighbors and how slowly, the Indians came to be so dependant on trade items like guns and liquor, that they lost their ability to keep themselves seperate from the alien European culture that threathened to envelope them, and in the end, they could not resist the overwhelming tide that would displace them forever.<br />The book begins at the time of Queen Anne's War, showing how the growing white settlements pushed westward from Pennsylvania and Virginia, displacing numerous native tribes like the Delaware, Shawnee, and Seneca. It chronicles the outbreak of the French and Indian War in 1754 as France and England vied for control of the Ohio Country, and their attempts to manipulate the tribes to fight for their cause. It addresses the roles played by the Ohio tribes during the American Revolution, as the British, desperate to keep the Americans out of the Northwest rally the Ohio tribes to strike the western settlements with a bloody upraised tomahawk. Finally, betrayed by their British allies, the Ohio tribes, now left to fend for themselves against an unstoppable juggernaught, despite valiant resistance against Generals Harmar and St. Clair, finally succumb to Anthony Wayne's forces at Fallen Timbers in 1794. The Greenville treaty a year later will seal their fate and that of Ohio once and for all.<br />This book in filled with much information and is a useful reference work, but is far too dry to hold much interest as an entertaining read. However, it is effective in that it tells the story of the eastern frontier from the Indian perspective, one that in 1940 was decidedly negelected. But it is also ultimately a tragic tale, as it is a chronicle of the passing of a people and their way of life.wever, it is effective in that it tells the story of the eastern frontier from the Indian perspective, one that in 1940 was decidedly negelected. But it is also ultimately a tragic tale, as it is a chronicle of the passing of a people and their way of life.	2003-02-25
US	51066567	R3LY78R0J48Q15	0803267118	18749362	The Shawnee Prophet	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Excellent Account of Tenskwatawa, The Shawnee Prophet	This biography of Tenskwatawa is the only work devoted to the role and importance of the influencial Shawnee Prophet who has long been eclipsed in both popular and scholarly works by his far more famous brother, Tecumseh.<br />Born in 1775 in Ohio, Tenskwatawa was one of three triplets born into the family of the Shawnee war chief Puckeshinwa.  After surviving a less than ideal childhood and losing an eye in the process, Tenskwatawa soon found himself an outcast among his own tribe.  Following the Treaty of Greenville in 1795, he and his people are forced to give up their claims to most of the Ohio Country and many, including himself, fall victim to alcoholism and despair.  But after experiencing a vision he believes is sent by the Master of Life, Tenskwatawa is reborn as the Shawnee Prophet and begins to preach a return to the old ways and to reject the ways of the whites whom he says have corrupted and destroyed the Indians.  His religious revival brings together many thousands of loyal followers from many tribes across the Old Northwest and becomes the core of the pan-Indian confederacy engineered by his older brother Tecumseh who intends to push the Americans back east of the Appalachain Mountains and reclaim their ancestoral homelands.  Tragicly, these dreams are crushed by William Henry Harrison's victory over Tenskwata's forces at the Battle of Tippecanoe in 1811. Though Tecumseh and Tenskwatawa would continue to fight alongside the British in the War of 1812, the Prophet's reputation is devastated forever, as is the dream of uniting the tribes and driving the whites from their lands.<br />This is a fascinating book that covers much information not only about the Prophet, but his people and their history, as well as shedding much light on one of the primary causes of the War of 1812 and the Indians' role in that conflict.	2003-02-03
US	51066567	R1D4YZH2PO6SL	0814756239	285079986	The Seeds of Empire - The American Revolutionary Conquest of the Iroquois	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History of Sullivan's Expedition Against the Iroquois	\\"Seeds of Empire\\" is an account of the war for control of the New York frontier and particularly of General John Sullivan's campaign against the Iroquois during the Revolutionary War.<br />The book gives an excellent overview of the history of the conflict with the Indians in the upstate New York region during the war and gives a particularly good account of St. Leger's expedition against Fort Stanwix and the bloody action at Oriskany in 1777.<br />In 1779, George Washington, trying to cope with the British on the East Coast, was desperate to find a solution to the \\"Indian Problem\\" that had been plauging the frontier settlements in the western country of New York and Pennsylvania. Washtington realized that the best way to deal with marauding British-allied Iroquois Indians was to attack and destory their villages, crops, and supply bases. Thus, he ordered Gen. John Sullivan with a large force of troops, supported by a smaller expedition under the command of Col. Daniel Brodhead further west from Fort Pitt, to march north into Indian territory in western New York. Washinton's orders were very specific that \\"the immediate objects are the total destruction and devastation of their settlements.\\" Sullivan managed to engage the Indians in battle and drive them away, laying waste to many villages and fields full of crops ready to be harvested. As a result of this example of devastating total war, the Iroquois were reduced to poverty and starvation and effectively taken out of the war. Washington's orders were fulfilled, but at a high price to the Indians. There has been much controversy regarding Sullivan and Washinton's action during this campaign as it was essentially seen as a war of extermination. There are many arguments for and against Washington's decision to subjuagate the Indians with such brutal tactics, but the historical truth is nonetheless that the once-proud and powerful Iroquois League was smashed and would never recover.<br />This book is an excellent history of these important events that are too often ignored by many popular and scholarly histories of the Revolutionary War. It is often forgotten that the War was fought not only on the great battlefields of the East, but on the frontier, where some of the bloodiest fighting of the war took place.history of these important events that are too often ignored by many popular and scholarly histories of the Revolutionary War. It is often forgotten that the War was fought not only on the great battlefields of the East, but on the frontier, where some of the bloodiest fighting of the war took place.	2003-02-03
US	51066567	R39930R84HAW68	081171389X	450084543	Virginia's Western War: 1775-1786	Books	4	13	14	N	N	History of the Revolutionary War in the West	Contrary to popular belief, the Revolutionary War was not fought all on the East coast.  Some of the hardest fought and bloodiest battles were in the western country, territory that would one day become Kentucky, West Virginia, and Ohio, but during the Revolution were considered part of Virginia.<br />&quot;Virginia's Western War 1775-1786&quot; tells the history of these interesting and important events.  Beginning with the settlement of Kentucky by Daniel Boone, Richard Henderson, James Herrod, and company, the western frontier is soon engulfed in fire and blood as the Indians, opposed to white expansion into their lands and supported by their British allies who hope to attack the rebellious colonies on their vulnerable western border, launch a massive campaign to destroy the settlements.  With action at Wheeling, Boonesboro, and Harrodstown, the western frontiersmen are forced to esentially fend for themselves against the hostile tribes and British rangers as the Continental forces back east cannot afford to spare money or troops to defend them.  In 1778 Virginia launches a campaign led by Gen. George Rogers Clark to reduce the British posts on the Mississippi and Wabash Rivers, which ultimately, following his extraordinary victory at Vincennes, succeeds in winning virtually the entire Northwest Territory for the Americans.  Despite these victories, Indian depredations would continue in this region until 1786, followed by the retaliatory strikes by expeditions under Clark, John Bowman, and Benjamin Logan, thus earning the region's macabre name of &quot;that dark and bloody ground&quot;.<br />Despite the Treaty of Paris in 1783, the Revolution never truly ended in the west, with Indians continuing to fight the Virginians over the Ohio country into the 1790s.  This book helps to shed some light on a little-known but fascinating aspect of the war that is too often overlooked.	2003-02-03
US	51066567	R3VPIUJ3EC024N	0595089909	501473271	The Court-Martial of Daniel Boone	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Excellent Account of the Little-Known Trial of Daniel Boone	This is Allan Eckert's novelization of the little-known incident of the military court-martial of that famous Kentucky frontiersman, Daniel Boone.  Boone was a legend in his own time, a well respected hunter and frontier soldier and was said to be as able in the woods as any Indian.<br />In February 1778, Boone has been leading a party of 27 men from Fort Boonesboro who were captured by Shawnee Indians while making salt at the Blue Licks.  Boone was adopted into the tribe and given the Shawnee name Sheltowee (Big Turtle) and spent several months living and hunting among the Indians before finally escaping back to Booneboro just in time to help fend off a siege of the isolated fort by the British and Indians.  After the battle, Boone was accused of treason and complicity with the enemy by several of his enemies, especially Col. John Bowman, who served as prosecutor in the court martial proceedings against him.  Boone shows that he can be as sly and sharp in the courtroom as he is in the wilderness.<br />Most people know only the myths and legends about Daniel Boone and this book does a great service by providing insight into the reality of the man, as well as presenting an intersting and riveting true story.	2003-01-31
US	51066567	R3EBDG32WGEPQU	0553280597	508085164	Twilight of Empire	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Tale of the Black Hawk War of 1832	This is the last book in Allan Eckert's Winning of America Series.  \\"Twilight of Empire\\" chronicles the little-known but bloody Indian uprising in western Illinois in 1832 that became known as Black Hawk's War.<br />The war was named after the leader of the uprising, an old battle-hardened Sauk war chief named Ma-ka-tai-me-she-kia-kiak...Black Hawk.  In the years following the War of 1812, white settlers flooded into Sauk and Fox lands and the native tribes were forced into signing treaties that gave up their ancestral lands to the United States.  In the spring of 1832, Black Hawk, in defiance of the United States and some of his own tribal leaders, led a large band of his starving people back across the Mississippi into northern Illinois to reclaim their stolen lands.  This large movement of Indians was seen as hostile by the local white settlers and the militia was called out to subdue Black Hawk's band.  The fatefull encounter at what would become the Battle of Stillman's Run would start off what would be the last major Indian war of the midwest.  In the end, Black Hawk and his people would be decimated by pursuing American troops under General Atkinson at the Battle of Bad Axe, where hundreds of Indian women and children were shot or drowned while trying to escape back across the Mississippi River.  This sad event marked the end of Indian wars east of the Mississippi and signaled the end of the way of life for the woodland Indians.<br />This story is deeply moving and involved and tells the history of a people and events not generally known today.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-31
US	51066567	R2OHJ1EAS42O85	1589637852	413507654	Indian Wars and Famous Frontiersmen: The Thrilling Story of Pioneer Life in America	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Early 20th century History of the Eastern Frontier	This history of the Eastern Frontier, first published in 1904, is a very interesting and entertaining account of the Indian Wars of the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  It was written at a time when the Indian wars had only recently ended and the idea of political correctness was decades away.  This book is filled with tales of bloody wars and massacres as well as highlights of the exploits of the most famous frontiersmen and pioneers of the trans-Allegheny west including such notables as Daniel Boone, Simon Kenton, Lewis Wetzel, George Rogers Clark, and many others, giving descriptions of their lives and encounters with hostile Indian tribes, wild animals, and a harsh wilderness.  It also gives brief histories of several later scouts and moutain men like Kit Carson and Jim Bridger.  It recounts the history of the settlement of Kentucky, Western Viriginia, and Ohio, that infamous area known as &quot;That Dark and Bloody Ground&quot;.<br />This book is interesting for its tone of time and place.  It is told from a decidedly white perspective, as it was written at time when the notions of Manifest Destiny were still griping a growing nation, and the Indians were still regarded as hostile savages to be subjugated in the creation of a greater United States.	2003-01-31
US	51066567	R1NCI0A536DYXP	0873382404	499652003	Fort Laurens, 1778-1779: The Revolutionary War in Ohio	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Introduction to The Revolutionary War in Ohio	This book addresses a subject that has received scant notice by historians over the years, the history of the Revolutionary War in the Ohio Country.<br />The book begins by giving a short but concise history of the conflict in the western country. Though not generally known today, there was much bitter fighting between the British allied Ohio tribes and the American settlers on the frontier in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and Virigina in the years between 1777-1782 with both sides commiting terrible atrocities. The Americans became deterimined to stop the raids by launching an attack against the British stronghold at Detroit, the support center for the Shawnee, Mingo, Wyandot, and Miami Indians who were raiding up and down the frontier. Though the Delaware were largely allies of the Americans, they later threw their lot in with the other tribes late in the war after the infamous massacre of Christian Delawares at Gnadenhutten.<br />Fort Laurens, named for Continental Congress president Henry Laurens, was built by order of General Lachlan McIntosh and was intended as the first step to securing, through military occupation, the wilderness of the Ohio Country. It was also intended to serve as a first step toward the ultimate goal of reducing Fort Detroit. Sadly, the fort was so far removed from its supply base at Fort Pitt and surrounded by a wilderness infested with hostile tribes that the maintenance of the fort soon became impossible. Despite its best effort, the garrison commanded by Col John Gibson, lacking food and supplies and finding themselves under nearly constant attack by the Indians and British rangers, was finally forced to abandon the post. This halting attempt to subdue the Ohio tribes was a total failure.<br />This is a short book but contains alot of good info on a little known subject.	2003-01-30
US	51066567	R32BTHEYADSJ09	0964063468	607384696	The Tuscarawas Valley in Indian Days 1750-1797: Original Journals and Old Maps	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent History of the Ohio Country	This beautiful book is filled with many wonderful maps as well as early western journals desribing the first explorations of the Ohio Country by white settlers and their encounters with the many native tribes that called Ohio home in the mid to late 18th century.  Including such important accounts as Christopher Gist, who was the first white man to chronicle his explorations of the Ohio wilderness, John Heckewelder and David Zeisberger, the famous Moravian missionaries who founded a number of Christian Indian towns in eastern Ohio and who help support the American cause during the Revolution in the west, Col. Henry Bouquet, the leader of a military expedition into Ohio in 1764 to help put down Pontiac's Rebellion, as well as many others whose explorations and contact with the Indians proved valuable to posterity.  Early maps are compared with modern versions to try to locate a number of vanished Indian villages in a way never done before, thus providing a new perspective on the locations of modern roads and cities to their old Indian counterparts, particularly in the areas around modern Coshocton at the Forks of the Muskingum River.  This area was also the site of the ill-fated Fort Laurens, the first American military installation in the Ohio Country.  This is a wonderful reference book and is highly recommended to anyone with an interst in Ohio or frontier history.	2003-01-30
US	51066567	R3DO3TM9K81BZA	0765300230	642444374	George Washington, Frontiersman (Ohio Frontier)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Disappointing Tale of Washington's Early Years	Zane Grey's \\"George Washington, Frontiersman\\" was, sadly, a large disappointment for me. As a avid reader of all things to do with the French and Indian War and the Eastern Frontier, I was excited to come across this \\"lost\\" Grey novel about George Washington's early years as a surveyor and later a soldier with the Virginia Militia fighting against the French and Indians in the Ohio Country.<br />The book tells the story of a young Washington and his early life as a surveyor on the western Virginia frontier and his relationships with his neighbors the Fairfaxes and his love affair with Sally Carey, later the wife of his friend George Fairfax. In 1753 Washington is called upon by the Crown to take a message to the French forces moving into the Ohio lands demanding their immediate evacuation from the King's lands. Following the failure of this mission, Washington is sent as the leader of an expedition to force the French from the Ohio Country, leading to the disasterous debacle of Fort Necessity and, later as aide de camp to General Braddock, to the horrible and bloody defeat of that campaign at Fort Dusquene. The history here alone is more than adequate for a exciting and engaging tale.<br />Unfortunately, Grey, who has written some great material, fails here to convey any sense of interest or excitement. It was a struggle just to get through the first few chapters. Historical accuracy has been sacrificed for melodrama and poor dialogue. Washington comes across as a brave and hardy frontiersman, able to fight Indians, track game, and carve civilization from the wilderness almost single-handedly. Nothing could be further from the truth. Washington, while possessing many admirable traits, not the least of which was his leadership qualities, was really just an ambitious syncophant, eager for a commission as a royal officer and really nothing more than an untried greenhorn in the ways of the woods as can be seen by his horrible failure at Green Meadows and in his dealings with the Indians.<br />Ultimately, this book failed to live up to many of its expectations, and that was a great disappointment. I would greatly recommend Allan Eckerts \\"Wilderness Empire\\" for a far more enjoyable telling of the same events.s with the Indians. <br />Ultimately, this book failed to live up to many of its expectations, and that was a great disappointment. I would greatly recommend Allan Eckerts \\"Wilderness Empire\\" for a far more enjoyable telling of the same events.	2003-01-22
US	51066567	RQCSMKJC6XW9K	0911872248	440591485	At the Crossroads: Michilimackinac During the American Revolution (Michigan)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Account of  the Fur Trade During the Revolution	\\"At the Crossroads\\" deals with the little-known history of the Revolutionary War years on what was then the far-western frontier of the Great Lakes region.  Besides the British and French settlers, this area was the homeland of many native tribes such as the Ottawa, Ojibwa, and Huron who existed in a growing relationship of interdependence with the whites.<br />The book focuses on the fur trade and the fragile but supremely important relationship that existed between the British, French habitants, and the native tribes.  This area had been the scene of a terrible massacre during Pontiac's War in 1763, and after such a price to maintain this outpost, most of the inhabitants were Loyalists who were eager to remain part of the British Empire.  Though no fighting occurred at Michilimacinac during the war, it was an important \\"jewel in the crown\\" so-to-speak for the amount of revenue it brought in, which was used to finance the King's War against the rebel colonists.  Though American General George Rogers Clark had hoped to launch an attack on Detroit and Michilimacinac following his amazing victory at Vincennes in 1779, the campaign was never approved and most of the modern state of Michigan remained in the hands of the British throughout the war.  It comes as no surprise then, when the inhabitants of the area learned that the fort and ,in fact, all the Northwest Territory was ceded to the United States with the Treaty of Paris in 1783 that they were shocked and outraged.<br />Though the British would continue to maintain a garrison at Detroit and Michilimacinac, in direct violation of the Treaty, until l796, the real losers in this affair would prove to be the Indians who, after the lands became \\"trapped-out\\" and the British realized that attempting to maintain an Indian Buffer territory between Canada and the United States was proving disasterously futile, were abandoned.  Without British support, the native tribes could not resist American expansion into the Northwest and were eventually wiped out or moved onto reservations.  This book is recommended for anyone interested in the history of the Northwest.est and were eventually wiped out or moved onto reservations.  This book is recommended for anyone interested in the history of the Northwest.	2003-01-17
US	51066567	R2SZLV7P11GVVK	048640966X	728245136	The Buccaneers of America (Dover Maritime)	Books	5	71	73	N	N	Fantastic Early History of the Pirates of the Caribbean	This work by the Dutchman Alexander Exquemelin (or Esquemeling) was first published in the Netherlands in 1678 as \\"De Americaensche Zeerovers\\" and later translated into English as \\"The Buccaneers of America\\" of which this book is a reprint. Exquemelin was himself a buccaneer and claimed to have collected these tales of piracy on the high seas as an eyewitness. It has proven to be one of the only accounts of the 17th century buccaneers of the Spanish Main.  Here collected for the first time were the tales of such famous (and infamous) buccanneers like Pierre LeGrand, Francis L'Ollonais, and Henry Morgan.<br />The buccaneers started out fairly innocuously enough as hunters on the Spanish controlled island of Hispanola. But as they grew more numerous, they were ruthlessly persecuted by the Spanish authorities and driven onto the island of Tortuga. This treatment fuled an unparalled hatred for the Spanish and gave rise to some of the cruelest acts of violence in the history of piracy. Of the pirates discussed here, many, like the dread pirate L'Ollonais, were known for their almost unrivaled cruelty in the treatment of captives. L'Ollonais was said to have cut out the hearts of Spanish captives and eaten them to frighten the others into revealing information he wanted. Of all, Captain Henry Morgan is by far the most famous and remembered of the buccaneers. Morgan was known for his daring acts against the Spanish and for his capture and sack of Panama, then the rendezvous point for the Spanish gold fleet. Later, he went on to fame and fortune as the governor of Jamaica.<br /> The buccaneers passed into history with the close of the 17th century. The Golden Age of piracy was to peak in the early 18th century, by which time the older buccaneers had faded away, and with them the days when the Spanish ruled the New World. But Exquemeling's work will forever capture the spirit and adventure of these days long gone. Highly recommended.	2003-01-07
US	51066567	R2HC5ZM92RUSKZ	0781253489	144937042	History of the Girtys	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent Early Biography of the Infamous Girty Brothers	Originally published in 1890 and long out of print, this book by C.W. Butterfield was the source of many of the myths and legends surrounding one of the most feared and reviled families in American history.  It tells the story of the Girty brothers: Simon, Thomas, George, James, and John Turner.  While each of these men have their own place in the history of the eastern frontier, one in particular stands out among them.<br />Simon Girty has long been regarded by historians as a monsterous butcher and murderer.  Captured by Indians with his brothers in Pennsylvania in 1756 during the French and Indian War, Simon was adopted by the Seneca tribe and learned the ways of the warrior.  After being returned to the white world after the war, Girty became a scout at Fort Pitt, took part in the little known Lord Dunmore's War in 1774 with Simon Kenton, with whom he developed a great friendship, and eventually sided with the Americans during the early years of the Revolution.  But in 1778, some say after witnessing one too many cruleties against the native tribes by the whites,  Girty defected to the British and began a long and bloody career on the Ohio frontier, and gave birth to a black legend that would last until the present day.  Girty personally inspired and led many war parties against the white settlments in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky, leading warriors into battle at Fort Henry, Blue Licks, Sandusky, St. Clair's Defeat, and Fallen Timbers.  Today, he is best remembered for his part in the torture and murder of Col. William Crawford at the stake in 1782 following the Battle of the Sandusky near what is today Upper Sandusky, OH.<br />Simon Girty, as well as his brothers, are complex and mysterious characters that have only recently been given more sympathetic views by modern historians.  While it is undeniable that Simon was a cold-blooded killer, his motivations and his loyalties to a people who were being driven from their homeland bares further research.  Despite being remembered as a horrible blackguard in the 19th century, he is little-known today.  He is, without a doubt, one of the most important forgotten characters of early American history.ch.  Despite being remembered as a horrible blackguard in the 19th century, he is little-known today.  He is, without a doubt, one of the most important forgotten characters of early American history.	2003-01-05
US	51066567	R3NRDC2A6720EZ	089725287X	590474878	The Journals of Major Robert Rogers & an Historical Account of the Expedition Against the Ohio Indians in the Year 1764 Under the Command of Henry	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Reprint of a Rare Account of the Early Indian Wars in Ohio	This is a reprint of two seperate works concering the French and Indian War and Pontiac's Rebellion.<br />The first is a collection of the journals of Major Robert Rogers, the founder and leader of the frontier fighting force known to history as Roger's Rangers, a elite group of American frontier soliders who are most famous for their daring and bloody campaign against the Abnaki Indians during the French and Indian War. Roger's journals give insight into the mind of a truly revolutionary fighter and the many hardships and triumphs he and his men face over the course of the war.<br />The second work is \\"An Historical Account of the Expedition Against the Ohio Indians in 1764\\". Originally published in Philadelphia in 1765, this recounts the little-known events surrounding the military campaign led by Swiss-born Colonel Henry Bouquet against the Shawnee, Wyandot, Mingo, and Delaware Indians in the Ohio Country during the closing days of Pontiac's Rebellion. After the Ottawa chief Pontiac laid seige to the English forts on the western frontier following France's defeat in the Seven Years War, Col. Bouquet was sent with Lt. Col. John Bradstreet on a dangerous two-pronged campaign to punish and break the Indians, thus forcing them into submission and the acceptance of English rule. Bradstreet's march into northern Ohio and Michigan was a farce, ending with Bradstreet disobeying his orders in an attempt to make a name for himself by \\"single-handedly\\" ending the Rebellion. Despite this, Bouquet marched from Fort Pitt, and after a desperate council with the hostile tribes at the forks of the Muskingum River near Coshocton, secured their allegiance of peace. The outcome of this peace was the handing over of all white prisoners from the war, a heart-rending affair for many as the captives had been adopted into the tribes and many young children, and even some adults, were forcibily removed from their adoptive Indian families to be returned to white society. Again, a little-known but fascinating adventure.nown but fascinating adventure.	2003-01-03
US	51066567	R1RFAB1CYNKJFG	1889037079	320832524	Loudon's Indian Narratives (Great Pennsylvania Frontier)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Reprint of a Rare 19th Century Indian Captivity Collection	This is another of Wennawoods Publishing's \\"Great Pennsylvania Frontier\\" series.  Originally published in a two volume set in 1808 and 1811, this collection of Indian captivity narratives written by Archibald Loudon was one of the most popular and widely read of all the many books on this subject that would appear over the next 100 years.  In fact, it was so popular that it has become a rarity to find a complete copy of the original 19th century editions.  Wennawoods reprinted the 1888 edition as seen here to bring these rare and fascinating captivity narratives to a modern audience.<br />This work is replete with tales of white settlers and soliders who were captured by Indians during the late 18th and early 19th centuries on the trans-Allegheny frontier.  Among the more than 25 accounts included here is that of the famous Col. James Smith and his more than 5 years captivity with the Wyandots in northeastern Ohio.  This work also includes extensive accounts of Indian life, religion, foodways, hunting, warfare, and, of course, torture.  It is understandable how this book became so popular, as it was written at a time when the danger from Indian raids along the frontier was still a viable threat, and it is easy to picture frontier families huddled together on a cold winter night around the fireplace, reading of tales of Indian depredations and scaping and torture, all the while listening for the faint echoes of the war whoop in the dark woods nearby.	2003-01-03
US	51066567	R38V2JOIB1V9VF	0754805816	326861690	The Encyclopedia of Magic & Witchcraft	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Good Introduction to the History of Magic and Witchcraft	The \\"Eycyclopedia of Magic and Witchcraft\\" is an excellent illustrated introductory history of magic, witchcraft, and the occult.  It is by far one of the best I've seen.  It is intended for those who presumably have little background in these subjects, but is just as enjoyable for anyone already aquainted with magic and the occult.  It traces the history of magic and spiritual beliefs from prehistory to modern times, highlighting a number of important topics along the way.<br />The book begins with an introduction to shamanism and other early magical beliefs from which all others would evolve over thousands of years.  It highlights magic in the anicent and classical worlds, particularly Egyptian, Greco-Roman, Celtic, and Northern European beliefs.  It investigates the role of magic and witchraft in the rise of ancient and modern religions such as Christianity, Islam, Buddism, Hinduism, and Shintoism, as well as the role of witch doctors and magic healers throughout history, well into modern times.  It also addresses the influence of magic on science and how magic, science, and religion are more closely related then many might think.  It devotes an entire chapter to the history of the European witch hunts from 1450-1750 and the various impact magical beliefs played in accusations of witchery. It also devotes several sections to the idea of high magic and alchemy and its links with NeoPlatonist philosophy.  The last few chapters of the book deal with modern magic and witchcraft history and beliefs, particularly Neo-Paganism and Wicca, but also address other issues as Satanism, Druidry, and modern shamanism.<br />The book is objective in its history and does not succumb to the polemic pitfalls of many other histories of this kind.  Though this is only a lightly treated intro to this subject, it is one that I highly recommend.	2002-12-15
US	51066567	RWOSGSD7J43CQ	0517362457	584041676	The Encyclopedia of Witchcraft & Demonology	Books	3	49	54	N	N	Voluminous But Dated Enclyclopedia of Horrors	Rossell Hope Robbins massive 1959 work \\"Encyclopedia of Witchcraft and Demonology\\" has been reprinted many times but is currently out-of-print. It is indeed a fascinatingly horrible compenidum of information regarding witches, demons, devils, demonologists, inquisitors, judges, hysterias, torture, and murder.  It has served for the past 40 odd years as one of the most read and referenced work on the history of witchcraft and demonology, especially by many popular witchcraft authors and historians who continue to use and cite the work today.<br />The trouble is that much of the scholarship contatined in this work is sadly outdated and lacks information on much of the recent work done in the field of witchcraft studies in the past 20 years.  Also, Robbins' work suffers from the same problem that afflicted many other similar early witchcraft histories:  bad translations and historical forgeries.  It has been shown that many of the early translations of a number of Latin works on witchcraft (particularly those translated by the Rev. Montague Summers) are suspect.  Also, several 19th century histories of the witchcraze and the Inquisition that have been used as source material by countless authors, including Robbins, have been proven to be forgeries, particularly the works relating the early 14th century Inquisitorial witch executions in France.  Robbins' work has also been criticized by scholars for its lack of objectivity in its history.  But this work still remains popular today and understandably so, as it contains many lurid and engaging articles on just about every aspect of the witch hunts from the 15th to the 18th century in Europe and North America.  Despite many of its flaws, it is still a useful reference and for that reason it still gets 3 stars, plus I must admit, it maintains some of the mysterious aura surrounding the history of witches and demons that much recent scholarship has tried to dispel, and that makes it fascinating reading, if for the wrong reasons.ons.	2002-12-11
US	51066567	R10AI7M92BW5M4	0764154656	425213525	Witchcraft: A Secret History	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Nicely Illustrated But Nothing Special	\\"Witchcraft: A Secret History\\" is yet another of the popular histories of witchcraft and magic that has hit the bookstores in the past few years. It includes a history of witchcraft and magic from anicent times, including Greco-Roman, Egyptian, and Celtic magic, through the witch crazes of the 15th thru 17th centuries, to modern times. It also includes an excellent chapter on the Salem Witch Trials. The book is written for a decidedly Neo-Pagan/Wiccan audience and includes sections on spells, herbs, and magical implements. While it is nicely illustrated and provides a good introductory background, it really adds nothing new regarding this highly popular subject. One item that I was glad to see was that this volume benefits from recent scholarship in historical witchcraft as, for instance, it refutes the \\"9 Million Martyrs\\" myth that seems to get repeated in many popular histories such as this one, as well as the now-discredited \\"Witch Cult\\" theories of early 20th century witchcraft author Margaret Murray. This book will provide an enjoyable quick read for the casual reader, but for those interested in a more detailed yet popular introducion to the fascinating and controversial subjects of witchcraft and magic I would recommend Jeffery B. Russell's \\"History of Witchcraft\\".	2002-12-11
US	51066567	RUI3FFK726RCI	015140934X	575154932	The History of Hell	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Slick Yet Informative History of the Infernal	Alice Turner's \\"History of Hell\\", while a seemingly glossy coffetable book, turns out, in fact, to be a well written introduction to the history and mythology of the Underworld as it appears throughout many cultures and religions over the past 5000 years.<br />The book begins with the earliest recorded tradtions of the Sumerians, Babylonians, and Egyptians and their ideas of the afterlife and the Underworld and how these notions greatly influenced later cultures and religions like Ancient Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Christiantiy, and Islam.  She relates the traditions of the Greco-Roman Underworld and all the attendant gods and goddesses and how it is with Greek and Roman literature that the Infernal regions begin to grow in prominence.  It is however in Chritianity that the notion of an Infernal Underworld of pain, torture, and enternal suffering for sinners and evil-doers comes to the real forefront.  Christianity is the only religion that seems to place such heavy emphasis on the existence of a place of eternal damnation, where demons torture the souls of the deceased and the Devil presides over all.  Turner examines the literature of St. Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Dante, Milton, and others, as the myths of Hell grow and change over time to become the popular notion we still hold today of Hell as a place of fire, brimstone, and torment, as well as the effect of art in the common perceptions of Hell.  It is quite an intersting fact that while we should aspire to the paradise of Heaven, it is the Inferno that continues, after all this time, to fascinate and captivate our imaginations.	2002-12-04
US	51066567	R1102FDU8A09PW	0486261476	203356698	Demoniality, Montague Summers Edition (English and Latin Edition)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	An Early Work on Demons, Ghosts, Incubi, and Succubi	This work by Franciscan Ludovico Sinistrari (1622-1701) was originally written in 1680 in manuscript form. The Latin manuscript was apparently lost for two centuries before it was re-discovered in 1872 in a London bookshop by Isidore Liseux, translated into French, and published as \\"De la d&eacute;monialit&eacute; et des animaux incubes et succubes\\" in 1875. This is the Montague Summers English reprint edition, first published in London in 1927.<br />Sinistrari was a devout Catholic who wrote this work to counter much of the growing skepticism concerning spirits and demons in the late 17th century. It is concerned with the existence of spirits, ghosts, and demons, particularly entities known as incubi and succubi, demonic spirits that were reputed to seduce men and women in their sleep, stealing men's seed and impregnating women with unholy offspring. It was widely believed that incubi could produce monstrous virgin births and in fact, the work is preoccupied with demonic sexuality. Sinistrari relates a number of contemporary tales of encounters with incubi and succubi in his native Italy, including a famous incident in his hometown of Pavia where a young wife was seduced by a libidinous entity that attempted to have sexual relations with her for several years.  It also includes anecdotal tales of other malicious spirts and poltergeists.  Sinistrari ultimately postulated that, contrary to popular and clerical belief, that incubi and succubi were not demonic, as they did not respond to exorcism or religious charms, but were in fact disembodied entities not unlike humans, thus possesing a soul and intellect and were somewhere between humans and angels in the ontological hierarchy.  He also suggested that intercourse with such a being would be beneficial to the human subject and that such an encounter was not diabolic, but positive in nature.  This suggestion would have been unheard of in the 17th century and might well explain why Sinistrari chose not to publish this work during his lifetime, as it would certainly have been deemed heresy.<br />This book is considered, along with contemporary Joseph Glanvill's \\"Saducismus Triumphatus\\", an important early work on the paranormal and supernatural. This edition includes an introduction by the ubiquitous eccentric occult historian Montague Summers.his lifetime, as it would certainly have been deemed heresy.  <br />This book is considered, along with contemporary Joseph Glanvill's \\"Saducismus Triumphatus\\", an important early work on the paranormal and supernatural. This edition includes an introduction by the ubiquitous eccentric occult historian Montague Summers.	2002-12-04
US	51066567	R3ITLK6XCQXCEQ	0486411257	696639777	Witchcraft and Black Magic	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Another Work on Witchcraft from the Rev Montague Summers	This is yet another treatise on the history of witchcraft and the occult by the ubiquitous early 20th century occult writer Montague Summers.  This work, originally published in 1946, just two years before Summers' death, deals with more of the same material Summers covers better in his earlier work \\"History of Witchcraft and Demonology\\".  Here he further covers witchcraft and occult lore and superstition, the history of witchcraft from anicent to early modern times, including the period of the witchcraze. He vividly includes such scadalous and lurid topics as diabolic pacts with Satan, invocation and copulation with demons, necromancy, and all the attendant myths and legends passed down through history corncerning these subjects.  As an occult or witchcraft history, while quite interesting, this is really ground covered before by Summers and others.  Summers himself was a eccentric but devoted occult historian who wrote many books on this and related subjects such as vampires, werewolves, and edited and translated several important early demonology and witchcraft texts such as the \\"Malleus Maleficarum\\", \\"Compendium Maleficarum\\", \\"The Discovery of Witchcraft\\", and others.  His credulity and fanaticism calls his scholarship into question and his translations of many works are considered suspect.  Despite these shortcomings, Summers was, to say the least, an interesting and prolific author.	2002-11-26
US	51066567	R1XH61MO7A50EU	0801480566	119734175	The Prince of Darkness: Radical Evil and the Power of Good in History	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the History and Myth of the Devil	Jeffrey B. Russell's \\"Prince of Darkness\\" is an excellent introduction to the complex history and mythology surrounding one of the most famous entities to grace the stage of religion and history, a being known by many names: Beelzebub, the Archfiend, Old Scratch, Lucifer, and Satan.  It serves essentially as an overview of his series of four books on the Devil at each stage of history from ancient to modern times.<br />Russell traces the Satan myth from its earliest primitive conceptual origins in Summerian and Babylonian myth and its influence on ancient Judaism and Zoroastrianism.  He shows that there are really only four religions throughout all of history that have had a concept of a singular entity that is the total personification of pure and radical evil, these being anicent Judaism, Zoroastrianism, Christianity, and Islam.  Each has its own rich and complex history and diabology, but it has been Christianity that has had the most complex and influential.<br />The book then continues with an analysis of the miriad of influences within Christianity on the evolving concept, role, and image of the Devil, from the early Christian tradtions as developed by Origen, Justin Martyr, St Anthony, and St. Augustine to the various Christian heretical sects, such as the Gnostics, Cathars, and Waldensians.  It then traces the rise of the Devil to prominence in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance and his role in the rise of the witchcraze of the 16th and 17th centuries.  At this time, there was such an obsession with the concept of Satan and his minions that a complex demonology grew up around him, created by theologians, clerics, jurists, and crackpots.  As time passed, the fearful influence of the Devil waned as belief in spirits and demons passed into the realm of superstition and Satan was reduced to little more than an advertising ploy and horror movie cliche.  As it was with Christianity, so it is in the secular world as well:  Satan Sells.<br />Russell's introduction gives an excellent overview to a fascinating and complex subject and hopefully will lead to an even more in-depth investigation of the most feared being in history, that Father of Lies and Seducer of All the World called the Devil and Satan.ion gives an excellent overview to a fascinating and complex subject and hopefully will lead to an even more in-depth investigation of the most feared being in history, that Father of Lies and Seducer of All the World called the Devil and Satan.	2002-11-20
US	51066567	R3M8O6CBSW5DAK	0764155407	595316344	The Devil	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Nicely Illustrated Introduction to the History of the Devil	Amelia Wilson's illustrated history of the Devil is a wonderful intoduction to the myth of the Archfiend as he appears throughout history and across religions and cultures.  The book examines the origins of the concept and idea of \\"the Devil\\" in ancient Sumerian/Babylonian myth and its influence on ancient Judaism and Zoroastrianism.  Wilson shows that in the Hebrew Bible,  contrary to popular belief, Satan appears only as a servant of God, and not as an all powerful individual entity of pure evil. In fact, Satan serves a relatively minor role in ancient Judaism.  It is only with the advent of Christianity that Satan takes on such a prominent role in worldly and spiritual affairs, tempting mankind to sin and thus seducing inumerable souls into the firey pit of Hell.  It shows briefly how the idea and image of the Devil himself changes over time, from early Christian traditions to the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and finally to modern times, where the image of the Devil has largely lost its diabolic element and has been reduced to an advertising ploy and horror film cliche.  Wilson also quickly examines the history of Satanism and its impact on history, perceived and real, and the Devil's role in the witchcraze of the 16th and 17th centuries.  Overall, a nice and generously illustrated, but ultimately short book that draws essentially on secondary sources.  For a much more in depth investigation into the history and mythology of Satan, I recommend Jeffery B. Russell's \\"The Prince of Darkness\\", a fantastic book that fleshes out many of the concepts only lightly touched upon here.	2002-11-20
US	51066567	R24R3BGLCVL6A0	0762103795	173560334	Spellbound	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Nice Illustrated Introduction to Magic and Witchcraft	This is yet another of the many, many popular introductions to magic, witchcraft, and the occult that can be found in any good bookshop.  This one is different in that it is generously illustrated and contains an abundance of information for the beginning student of witchcraft and occult history.  It contains an informed history of occultism and witchcraft from anicent times to the present and contains a large section on modern Wicca.  There are many popular occult histories on the book market today, a fact that is made more problematic by the fact that many of them are compromised by poor scholarship, personal agendas, and suffer from overt polemicizing on the part of the authors as to discredit their value.  A book such as this should be valuable for its historic content, and to bring to its readers, in some way, a better understanding of the fascinating yet controversial subjects of witchcraft and the occult.  This book succeeds where others fail.	2002-11-05
US	51066567	R3HC77HXUUY9GE	0486260305	289696372	The Discoverie of Witchcraft (Dover Occult)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A Voice of Reason in the Darkness	This is the reprint of the Montague Summers edition of Reginald Scot's \\"Discoverie of Witchcraft\\". Scot's treatise was first published in 1584, just at the height of the European witchcraze, and was one of the few published works that argued vehemently against the belief in witches and demons.<br />Scot argued that a belief in witches was fallacy and ran counter to the classical Christian view as given in the Canon Episcopi that stated that belief in witches and demonic magic was a delusion and that witches were not working in league with the Devil but were rather deluded persons who needed guidance in the ways of religion rather than death and torture. Scot goes on at length to discuss the illusion of supposed witchcraft and magic and that God alone, not Devils or witches, controls the elements and that he alone dictates the fate of men.<br />Scot, like his contemporary Johann Weyer, was met with hostility from the learned demonologists and theologians of the day. His work was condemned and ordered burned by King James I of England. Rather than being hailed as a rational and sensible humanist thinker for his valiant atttempt to stem the tide of the burnings of human beings, Scot was accused by some as promoting the heresy of Sadducism (a disbelief in spirits) while others dismissed his arguments and beliefs as being thinly veiled atheism and argued that witches were in fact real and dangerous and that the bonfires of witches must continue. The credulous and eccentric Montague Summers himself argues this viewpoint in his shamelful introduction. Summers even stoops so low as to essentialy accuse Scot and Weyer of Satanism! Nonetheless, Scot's work gave hope that some in the 16th century were not overcome with belief in witches and demonic pacts and was skeptical of the popular fears that devils and demons were lurking around every corner, waiting to inflict evil and death on the unsuspecting populace. Unfortunately, it would be another 200 years before the murderous pyres of the witchhunters were finally snuffed out.s pyres of the witchhunters were finally snuffed out.	2002-09-27
US	51066567	R273JA8XFGAKH3	0963065793	683580288	King James' Daemonologie in the Form of a Dialogue, Divided into Three Books. Originally Printed in Edinburgh 1597, Modified for Easy Reading, with a Glossary	Books	4	12	14	N	N	King James I's take on Witchcraft	Published in 1597, this is a short work on witchcraft and demonology written by King James I of England. This work was written essentially to counter the works of rationalists like Reginald Scot and Johann Weyer who argued against the belief in witchcraft and demonic magic. James I was in his younger years a firm believer in the power and danger of witchcraft and was himself convinced of a plot by witches to kill him and his queen during a sea voyage in 1590. The case of the North Berwick Witches is famous even today and was definately the motivating factor in James intense support for the trying and execution of witches in Scotland prior to his accendancy to the English throne in 1603. Following his rise to the throne of England, James seems to have lost much of his interest in witchcraft, but maintained enough mistrust to see that his official English edition of the Bible included the translation of Exodus 22:18 as \\"Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live\\".	2002-09-27
US	51066567	R2AN7EEB9N05XO	188981802X	985463320	On Witchcraft: An Abridged Translation of Johann Weyer's De Praestigiis Daemonum	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Early Voice of Reason of the Witch Craze	\\"On Witchcraft\\" is an abridged translation of Johann Weyer's important work \\"De Praestigiis Daemonum\\".  Weyer was a Dutch physician and a follower of the Renaissance humanist Erasmus and a student of the mystic Cornelius Agrippa.  Weyer was deeply concerned with the rise of the belief in the diabolism of witchcraft and the subsequent tortures and executions that followed in the 15th and 16th centuries.  His answer to this concern was this present work, first published in 1563.  \\"De Praestigiis Daemonum\\" argues against the belief, prevalent at the time, that witchcraft was a real and tangible danger and that witches and sorcerers operated through a pact with the Devil.  Weyer was a Christian and believed in the existence of demons and the Devil, but argued that witchcraft, as it was popularly believed, could not exist.  He argued on medical, legal, and theological grounds that witches were in many cases mentally deluded, senile, or ill, and that in fact they were no more guilty of diabolic crimes than any other mentally ill invalid.  He also argues on the grounds of Roman Law that any contract supposedly made with Satan would be impossible and that the Bible says nothing of such pacts.  Weyer found himself, like his contemporary anti-witchcraze writer Reginald Scot, beseiged by critics on all sides and was accused of being nothing more than an anti-Catholic heretic.  He was singled out particularly by the famous French jurist and demonologist Jean Bodin who contradicted much of what Weyer argued.  Weyer has come down through history as being important to the history of psychiatry and rationalism.  His work was important at the time as being a lonely voice against the rising tide of the witchcraze and remains important to modern readers as a window on the mind of the 16th century and the contemporary debate on the existence of witchcraft and demonic magic.	2002-09-27
US	51066567	R3EPL7WJL381JS	0521785766	697967973	Magic in the Middle Ages (Canto)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Excellent Introductory History of Magic	Richard Kieckhefer's &quot;Magic in the Middle Ages&quot; is a relatively short but comprehensive scholarly summary of the long and fascinating history of magic during Europe's middle ages and its relationship to witchcraft.  The author analyzes the many varied influences on magical beliefs from classical literature, folk beliefs, magical texts, biblical sources, and contemporary scholarly and theological treatises.  He shows how the beliefs in magic changed over time and how each area influenced the popular and scholarly beliefs in magic and the supernatural.  Ultimately, he shows that beliefs in magic, like relgion to which it is closely related, changes over time as people's perceptions change.  He also shows the relationship between magic and witchcraft and how they both played roles in the witch craze of the early modern period.  This book is required reading in many witchcraft and medieval studies classes and justly so.	2002-09-20
US	51066567	R1GP9FF3493Q9A	0811727556	754578923	Falling Stars: A Guide to Meteors and Meteorites (Astronomy)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Good Short Introduction to Meteors, Meteorites, and Tektites	Falling Stars: A Guide to Meteors and Meteorites is just that, a short introduction to the wonderful world of meteors and meteorite collecting.  There are a number of good books out there on this subject, but this one is a handy quick reference guide for novice collectors and those interested in learning a little about the origins of these fascinating pieces of rock and metal from space.  It gives a brief overview of meteors and comets, descriptions of the major meteor showers,  major impact craters, and famous meterorite falls, as well as a breakdown of the various types of meteorites and tektites.  It doesn't go into great detail on, say, the difference between an octahedrite, hexahedrite, and ataxite nickel-iron meteorite for example, but it does provide some sound info for the beginner.	2002-08-28
US	51066567	R3Q3R4DQNXPZBB	0805065091	620354102	The Queen's Conjurer: The Science and Magic of Dr. John Dee, Advisor to Queen Elizabeth I	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Informative Biography of an Elizabethan Magus	Benjamin Woolley's 'The Queen's Conjurer' is the most recent attempt to present the life of the English Enigma, Dr. John Dee.  Dee is an interesting character and one that has sadly been much maligned over the centuries.  Since his death in 1608, he has largely been dismissed at best as an sorcerer and black magicican and, at worst, as a credulous old fool dabbling in astrology and necromancy.  Today, despite his prominent historical role in Elizabethan politics and his great contibutions to many fields, he is hardly remembered at all.  This book tries to alleviate that problem.<br />Wolley's work is well-researched and attempts to shed light on Dee's life and his many accomplishments as not only an occultist, but also as an astronomer, mathematician, explorer, and spy.  Dee was a product of the Renaissance and devoured knowledge and information.  He was an avid bibliophile, a voracious author of various works on astronomy, astrology, mathematics, occult philosophy, and was well-respected by many prominent people at the court of Queen Elizabeth.  The Queen herself counted herself one of Dee's benefactors and visited him numerous times at his home at Mortlake, taking a genuine interest in his many magical and mathematical works.  Today he is largely remembered for his works concerning \\"Enochian\\" or Angel Magic, due to the fact that these are the bulk of his writings that have survived the flames of history.  Most of the second half of this book is concerned with Dee's European adventures with the mysterious scryer Edward Kelly, who is largely regarded by history as a charlatan and a rake.  Kelly is a shadowy and intriguing figure and we get some insight into his character and motivations but he is never truly revealed to us, perhaps he never will be.  In the end, Dee finds that despite a lifetime of great works and accomplishments, he is viewed with mistrust and suspicion by the general public and has lost favor with the new court of King James I.  He dies a tired and broken man, and history would continue to tarnish his great name until well into the 20th century.<br />The Queen's Conjurer is a very readable account of a great and fascinating man.and broken man, and history would continue to tarnish his great name until well into the 20th century.  <br />The Queen's Conjurer is a very readable account of a great and fascinating man.	2002-08-28
US	51066567	R3743CU3FAY3D6	0500272425	36063763	A History of Witchcraft: Sorcerers, Heretics, and Pagans	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Well-Researched  Introductory Investigation of Witchcraft	Jeffery Burton Russell is well known for his works on the history and myth of the Devil.  Here Russell provides us with a very well-researched introduction to historical witchcraft that seeks to give an overview of the essential influences and origins of witchcraft and the Christian myths of diabolic magic and demonic pacts that eventually lead to the virulent witch-craze of the Renaissance and early modern period.<br />Russell identifies several essential elements that influenced European thought and lead to the persecution and murder of tens of thousands of suspected \\"witches\\".  These are: sorcery, ancient pagan religious beliefs,  Christian theology, Inqusitorial and other anti-witch writings.  These elements provided the basis for a belief in diabolic witchcraft that, modern historians largely argue, never existed and erupted in the period between 1450-1750 in the largest witch hysteria in history.  However, Russell shows that these types of events are not relegated to the past, but can occurr in any society at any time, such as Nazi Germany or Stalinist Russia in recent times.  Russell analyzes the witch hunts in Europe, England, and the American Colonies and contrasts the various judicial methods and popular beliefs regarding them.  For instance, it is interesting to note that unlike on the Continent, England viewed the crime of witchcraft as a civil rather than religious matter.  This has alot to do with the connection between witchcraft and chrisitan heresy that was prevalent in Europe in the centuries prior to the beginning of the witch hunts but that was largely absent from English history.  Russell continues with an analyses of the decline of the witch-craze and the rise of general skepticism and disbelief in witchery.  He shows that by the late 18th century, the accusation and execution of suspected witches had all but ceased.  It was only in the late 19th century that a revived nterest in magic and the occult gave rise to a romanticized interst in witchcraft.  Russell concludes with an overview of the history of modern-day witchcraft and neo-paganism and the lingering perceptions that the public maintains about it.<br />This is an excellent introduction to the academic history of witchcraft and should lead interested readers to a more in-depth study regarding one of the most horrific periods in human history.chcraft.  Russell concludes with an overview of the history of modern-day witchcraft and neo-paganism and the lingering perceptions that the public maintains about it.<br />This is an excellent introduction to the academic history of witchcraft and should lead interested readers to a more in-depth study regarding one of the most horrific periods in human history.	2002-08-14
US	51066567	R5O0FK71Z964X	081475645X	975231051	Lure of the Sinister: The Unnatural History of Satanism	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Well-Researched and Informed Investigation of Satanism	Gareth J. Medway's \\"Lure of the Sinister\\"  is a well written investigation of historical and modern Satanism, focusing on the myths of Satanic Ritual Abuse and the wide-spread Satanic Panic of the 80s, when many people, deluded by sensationalist books and TV talk shows were lead to believe that an international Satanic conspiracy was working to undermine church and state.<br />The book first addresses the origins of Satanism and the idea behind the existence of the mythical entity known to Christians as Satan and Lucifer.  It analyzes the cases most often cited as reliable instances of historical Satanism and devil worship such as Gilles de Rais, the Affaire des Poisons, The Hell Fire Club, as well as modern cases of supposed Satanic crime like the Black Circle Boys and Richard Ramirez.  In all cases, paranoia and media sensationalism were shown to have warped the facts of these crimes and have mythologized them to the point were fact and fiction are indistinguishable and that, in truth, Satanism was either not a factor or was only a side issue to the real motivation.  It also shows that the Church of Satan, far from being a truly evil threat to mankind, is not much more than a red herring meant to antagonize mainstream Christians and induldge themselves on ego rather than the Dark Lord.  The book goes on to take task with the myth of SRA and the panics of the 80s and 90s that were fueled by delusional paranoid religious factions and psychotherapists eager to cash in on a nation's fears by endorsing nothing less than a real modern witch hunt.<br />While there are very real problems with adolescent crime and drug abuse today, the fears that they are related to a world-wide conspiracy of black magic and devil worship are unfounded and have no supporting evidence.  The book debunks the many myths that have grown up around this subject and gives a balanced and interesting accounting of them.	2002-07-25
US	51066567	R2BZ64JECWIWEU	0840730349	636156236	Satanism: The Seduction of America's Youth	Books	1	19	27	N	N	Unresearched Fear-mongering Sensationalism	Bob Larson's book \\"Satanism: The Seduction of America's Youth\\" is really a poor piece of journalism.  It is a product of the Satanic Panic of the 80s and early 90s when a number of fundamentalist groups were convinced that there were wide-spread underground Satanic cults attempting to recruit millions of children for Lucifer through the use of heavy metal music and fantasy role playing games like Dungeons and Dragons.  Today, most people see this as the farce that it is.  The fact that anyone would take what Larson describes in this book seriously is frightening.  Suffice it to say that while this book is entertaining for it's sensationalist and misguided views, I think that it also has the power to seriously delude the unsavvy reader into beliving that simply because someone listens to Metallica, wears black clothing, or plays D&D that they are headed down the Left Hand Path to evil.<br />This book, and many others like it, are dangerous in that they are propagandist works that promote misinformation about simple adolescent rebelliousness and disparage other belief systems while pandering to people's fears.  For example, Larson's guide to \\"Satanic\\" symbols is just foolish.  Among other things, it continues the myth that the pentagram and the Egyptian Ahnk are Satanic symbols, which they are not.  It also promotes an unecessary fear of anything considered New Age or connected to the Occult, which basically continues to equate anything non-Christian with the Devil...  This book is un-intenionally entertaining, but not to be taken seriously in the least.  If I had children I would be more worried about them stealing beer and bashing mailboxes than selling their souls to Satan.	2002-07-19
US	51066567	R388W14BEV7D9A	1859581560	96042440	Mysteries and Secrets of Magic	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting But Dated History of Magic	Mysteries and Secrets of Magic by C.J.S. Thompson, originally published in 1927, is a broad overview of the history of magic and superstition from ancient times to the 20th century.  It includes chapters on magic and occult beliefs and practices in ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, as well as sections on witchcraft and demonology, divination, the Qabbala, numerology, and various other aspects of the occult.  While it serves as an intresting introduction to these fascinating topics, it is  rather short on in-depth content and seems a bit out-dated.	2002-07-09
US	51066567	R3QGESWE0DQKGF	0312244428	146611909	The Encyclopedia of Hell: A Comprehensive Survey of the Underworld	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Good, But Not Definative	Miriam Van Scott's Encyclopedia of Hell is chock full of interesting definitions, descriptions, and anecdotes concerning many different aspects of devils, demons, occultists, and various underworld myths from across a wide range of religions and cultures.  It contains brief descriptions of many lesser-known or obscure demonic and diabloic charaters and often long entries for other rather well-known people and places.  Overall, this book is quite interesting and serves as a good quick reference guide.  However, any encyclopedia of Hell is going to be a major affair that would seriously require seveal volumes.  There has yet to be a truly all-inclusive effort to describe the myths and legends of the Underworld and everything related to the afterlife and the damnation of the soul.  This books does its best to cover everything but falls short of being the last word on Hell.	2002-07-08
US	51066567	RSVDZSWOZD2YU	0486228029	783416784	The Malleus Maleficarum of Heinrich Kramer and James Sprenger (Dover Occult)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	500 Years and Still Provoking Controversy...	The Malleus Maleficarum of Kramer and Sprenger, orignally published in Germany in 1486, has been called many things, from God's own truth, a pack of blatant lies, sexually repressed farce, to an interesting yet ultimately baseless medieval oddity.  However, one thing it most certainly has proven to be is controversial. There is often much debate about just how influential this book actually was during its heyday.  It is true that even in their time, Kramer and Sprenger's ideas were not widely accepted.  In fact, there is evidence that Heinrich Kramer, the more virulently \\"anti-witch\\" of the pair and the primary author of the work in question, was an obnoxious zealot with a unhealthy obssession with witch's sexual habits, and that he was expelled by the local bishop from the town on Innsbruck during a witch trial in 1485 for his over-the-top and unprofessional conduct.  This incindent may shed light on the author's impetus for writing the Malleus in the first place, to try to gain recognition and authority from the local clergy and backing from Rome for his wild theories.  But the truth, as mentioned below, is that the Malleus Maleficarum was much more widely influential on the secular authorities than it ever really was with the Catholic Church.  Nevertheless, this work has come down through history as the most notorious book of the witch hunts and one that gives a fascinating insight into the fearful mind of at least one witch and demon-obsessed man.<br />The Malleus is interesting and unique in that it was the first of its kind to set out a comprehensive system for the detection, prosecution, and execution of suspected witches, those dastadly agents of evil who were believed to have made an unholy pact with the Devil hismelf.  It opens with the Papal Bull 'Summis Desiradantes Affectibus' issued by Pope Innocent VIII in 1484, a move that the authors hoped would lend officiality to their work.  This Bull urged that the German inquisitors be given authority to conduct their work against the growing threat of witches and devils that they claimed were plaguing Europe.  The Malleus itself is filled with many dry and languid passages describing how to identify and try witches, what kind of evidence to look for and aquire, how to protect oneself from the powers of the witch, and how to elicit a confession from the suspect throught the generous use of torture.  This was to become the hallmark of witch trials for centuries to come.  Regardless of its true acceptance and impact on western Europe, one thing is certain.  This book is a detestably cold and calculated handbook of horrors.<br />The introductions by Montague Summers are entertaining and interesting unto themselves.  Summers was a knowledgable yet wildly eccentric early 20th century occult historian, himself plagued with the same credulity and fanaticism that inflicted Heinrich Kramer it seems.  Summers is truly an off-beat character, but he offers an informative summary of witchcraft from ancient times to the present.  Summers is best known for his editions of famous books like the Malleus and the Compendium Maleficarum, as well as a large number of other books on witchcraft, magic, vampires, and werewolves.uct their work against the growing threat of witches and devils that they claimed were plaguing Europe.  The Malleus itself is filled with many dry and languid passages describing how to identify and try witches, what kind of evidence to look for and aquire, how to protect oneself from the powers of the witch, and how to elicit a confession from the suspect throught the generous use of torture.  This was to become the hallmark of witch trials for centuries to come.  Regardless of its true acceptance and impact on western Europe, one thing is certain.  This book is a detestably cold and calculated handbook of horrors.    <br />The introductions by Montague Summers are entertaining and interesting unto themselves.  Summers was a knowledgable yet wildly eccentric early 20th century occult historian, himself plagued with the same credulity and fanaticism that inflicted Heinrich Kramer it seems.  Summers is truly an off-beat character, but he offers an informative summary of witchcraft from ancient times to the present.  Summers is best known for his editions of famous books like the Malleus and the Compendium Maleficarum, as well as a large number of other books on witchcraft, magic, vampires, and werewolves.	2002-07-02
US	51066567	R36LCIU3C05PAW	1855856832	265262714	The Book of Prophecies: Discover the Secrets of the Past, Present and Future	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nicely Illustrated and Informative	This a wonderful book on the history of prophets, prophesies, oracles, and diviners from ancient times to the present.  It covers a diverse range of subjects and touches on many issues relating to the occult arts.  Beginning with the ancient Greek and Roman oracles, the author (ironically named John Dee) gives a description of the important role that these prophets of the future have played in the history of the world and, whether or not we believe in their abilities to predict future events, the undeniable influence they have had on many famous characters throughout history, from Alexander the Great, Cleopatra, the Caesars, Catherine de Medici, Napoleon, Adolph Hitler, and even Ronald Regan.  This book also chronicles the lives and predictions of many of the most famous seers and prophets including the biblical Joseph, Daniel, and St. John, the Delphic Oracle, and of course Nostradamus.<br />Today, prophets and prophesies are often either embraced with unquestioning credulity (think National Enquirer) or dismissed as pure pseudo-scientific hokum.  The truth is however, that people still have a powerful desire to gain intimate knowledge of the future and this fact alone has kept seers and diviners employed for millennia.  Even today, one cannot go into a bookstore without seeing at least ten to twenty books on Nostradamus and his predictions, which are just as popular today as 450 years ago!  Why is this?  Perhaps it is due to our fear of the unknown and our desire to know our fate ahead of time.  For to possess knowledge of the future is to be one step ahead and might allow us to change the course of history, or to know the will of God.  But whatever the reason, one thing is clear, and that is that since the dawn of history, mankind has always stretched out his hand to catch even a shadowy glimpse of whatever lies down the dark and twisting road that is the future.	2002-06-24
US	51066567	RBXL9YU2OE3AB	1560601574	625490748	Allan W. Eckert's Tecumseh!	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Graphic Adaptation of the Allan Eckert Drama	This is Timothy Truman's beautiful graphic novel adaptation of Alan Eckert's outdoor drama Tecumseh! which is performed every summer in Chillicothe, OH.  It is based on the life of the Shawnee leader Tecumseh and tells the story of the rise and fall of this great Indian hero and his ambitious plan to unite the eastern woodland tribes in a final war to remove the threat of white expansion into the trans-Alleghany west. Truman has done a number of other wonderful graphic novels relating to this period and this one is just as great.  If you  can get ahold of a copy, buy it.	2002-06-14
US	51066567	RBF9XCOO9WIS4	0965114600	722825026	Tomahawks, Pipe Axes: Of the American Frontier	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great Illustrations....A Little Short on Solid Content	Baldwin's \\"Tomahawks, Pipe Axes of the American Frontier\\" is one of a very few books that deal exclusively with the subject of American Indian pipe tomahawks and is definately slanted toward those who collect these beautiful historical artifacts.  This book is packed full of amazing pictures of various types of pipe tomahawks and Indians posing with pipe tomahawks and shows just how important these items were as an object of prestige and ceremony in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, long after it had ceased to be a effective weapon.  Baldwin also strives to set his own personal system for dating and classifying various types of pipe hawks by breaking them down into 5 distinct phases based upon style and period.<br />While this book indisputably has an abundance of beautiful pictures of some of the choicest pipe axes out there, it is somewhat short on real content.  The classification system Baldwin sets out is nice, and he does go to great lengths to make it useful to modern collectors as the pipe axe trade is full of misinformation and outright swindling.  But what is missing is a good history of the tomahawk and the important role it played in the history of the frontier, as well as it's role as a trade and ritual item. For that, one should reference Harold Peteron's  \\"American Indian Tomahawks\\", considered the pipe axe bible by many.  I would recommend this book as a definate companion to that work.	2002-06-14
US	51066567	R18J5GOP4MTLZ9	1884836801	363450316	A History of Jonathan Alder: His Captivity and Life with the Indians  (Series on Ohio History and Culture)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Interesting and Detailed Indian Captivity Narrative	This is the story of Jonathan Alder, who was captured by Indians at the age of nine from his home in western Virginia in 1782.  He was adopted and lived among the Mingos for 13 years along the Mad River in Ohio. Alder became a respected hunter and warrior and gives a vivid and detailed account of his life among them.  He gives a fascinating retelling of his life in a late 18th century Indian village, in an age when white settlers were beginning to push north of the Ohio River from Kentucky and West Virginia in the years after the Revolutionary War and how that increased conflict between the two groups for possession of the Ohio Country led, eventually, to the loss of Indian lands. After the Treaty of Greenville in 1795, Alder leaves the Indians to live in Pleasant Valley, near what is today Columbus, OH, though continuing to live as an Indian.  Around 1805, he is persuaded by a friend to travel to Virginia and is reunited with his white family.<br />Alder's narrative is truly fascinating in all respects.  He gives fully detailed accounts of his life among the Indians, from hunting and cooking, to relations with his Indian family which include a genuinely loving and kind mother and father, as well as an abusive sister who is resentful of the white boy and beats him for any infraction.  Alder tells of his participation in several horse-stealing raids in Kentucky as well as his part in the Battle of Fort Recovery in 1794, .  After Alder leaves the company of the Indians in 1795, he goes on to tell about his relations with the early white settlers in central Ohio and their often strained relations with the remaining Indian population.  Although he is reunited with his white family in 1805, and subsequently drops his Indian dress and lives as a white settler, Alder, it seems, is never fully one of them.  He views his neighbors through the eyes of one who lived a life far removed from their daily drudgery and often seems to reflect with nostalgia on his Indian days.  One gets a sense of forelorn sadness and loneliness in his later years, as though he is the product of a lost time and place.  His relationships with both his white and Indian family are intriguing, especially a poigniant encounter many years later with his Indian sister who abused him as a child.<br />This is a very intereing book and I recommend it highly.e gets a sense of forelorn sadness and loneliness in his later years, as though he is the product of a lost time and place.   His relationships with both his white and Indian family are intriguing, especially a poigniant encounter many years later with his Indian sister who abused him as a child.  <br />This is a very intereing book and I recommend it highly.	2002-06-03
US	51066567	R2OFRTE0TALVJM	0404157629	148132141	David Zeisberger's History of Northern American Indians (Ohio Archaeological and Historical Quarterly, Volume 19, Nos. 1 and 2)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Firsthand Account of the Indians of the Old Northwest	David Zeisberger was a Moravian missionary who immagrated to England's North American colonies in 1740 and became one of the first white men to live among the Indian tribes of the Old Northwest.  He spent many years living among the Delaware in western Pennsylvania and Ohio, founding the famous &quot;Praying Indian&quot; towns at Salem, Shoenbrun, and Gnadenhutten in the years just before the American Revolution.  Zeisberger worked tirelessly to convert the Indians to Christianity for many years on the frontier when it was a hostile and dangerous wilderness.  This book is translated from Zeisberger notes made while living among the Delaware in the period 1780-81.  They describe in great and accurate detail the lifestyle and culture of the Indians.  It details all aspects of religion, hunting, social structure, foods, medicine, clothing, etc. of the Delaware and the eastern woodland tribes in general.  It also gives an overview of the flora and fauna of the Ohio Country in the years prior to white settlement.  &quot;History of the Northern American Indians&quot; is a valuable piece of 18th century literature and should be read by any student of frontier or Indian history.	2002-05-13
US	51066567	R2TEYKARDP02SO	1560601671	342315350	Wilderness: The True Story of Simon Girty : Renegade	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fantastic Graphic Biography of Simon Girty	I stumbled upon the graphic novels of Timothy Truman after finding a copy of his adapatation of Allan W. Eckert's Tecumseh! in a used book store several years ago.  I later get my hands on a copy of this book and was absolutely amazed at how wonderful it is.<br />Wilderness tells the story of the \\"White Renegade\\" Simon Girty, a white man who deserted the American garrison at Fort Pitt during the Revoutionary War to serve the British as liason to the Ohio Indians, all the while encouraging and actively participating in many raids and expeditions against the white settlements in Virginia and Kentucky alongside his Indian allies, becoming a well respected warrior and ally of the native tribes in the Ohio Country, particularly among the Shawnee and the Wyandots and was a major figure in the history of Ohio and the Old Northwest.  Yet his name is nearly unknown to the general public today.<br />Simon Girty is a fascinating character, who was in his own time as famous and able a frontiersman as Daniel Boone and Simon Kenton.  But unlike men like Boone and Kenton who became the positive, \\"pro-Manifest Destiny\\" frontier hero archetypes, Girty chose a darker path, one that would lead him to be remembered not as a noble ally of the victims of white imperialism, but as an infamous butcher and villan unequaled in his cruelties against his own race. His mythology is also closely related to Lewis Wetzel, the West Virignia frontier \\"hero\\" whose own dark path through history was as equally blood soaked and murderous but because his victims were Indians, has been seen as a positive aspect of frontier history for two centuries.<br />His singular devotion to the Indian cause helped to paint him in a most negative light by his former American neighbors, who would go on to create, through many works of pseudo-history, fiction and anti-Indian propaganda, a dark and bloody veil of mystery about Girty which would shroud him in myth for centuries. It has only been in the past few decades that the truth about Girty and his infamous brothers has become known and more sympathetic views of his life and motivations come to light.  But make no mistake, Girty could be a cold-blooded killer who fought for a cause he felt was just and right, to help drive the invading whites from Indian territory during the long and terrible struggle for control of the Trans-Alleghany west in the late 18th century.  Timothy Truman's work helps bring his story vividly to life.ecades that the truth about Girty and his infamous brothers has become known and more sympathetic views of his life and motivations come to light.  But make no mistake, Girty could be a cold-blooded killer who fought for a cause he felt was just and right, to help drive the invading whites from Indian territory during the long and terrible struggle for control of the Trans-Alleghany west in the late 18th century.  Timothy Truman's work helps bring his story vividly to life.	2002-04-15
US	51066567	R218BJWIBKZRE4	0375754202	756638169	Montcalm and Wolfe: The Riveting Story of the Heroes of the French & Indian War (Modern Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great History	As has been said, Montcalm and Wolfe is Parkman's masterpiece.  It was the first thourough account of the French and Indian War and contains some of the most detailed descriptions of the people, places, and events that shaped the North American theater of the first truly global conflict. Here we encounter the dramatic events which lead toward the final confrontation for dominion over the continent.  We see a young Virginia Colonel named George Washington leading troops into battle for the first time at Fort Necessity, Braddock's fateful campiagn along the Monogahela, the massacres at Fort Oswego and William Henry by the Indians under Montcalm, the fall of Fort Dusquene, and finally, the culmination of many long and bloody battles, the capture of Quebec and the almost romanticized deaths of Montcalm and Wolfe at the Plains of Abraham. What is truly interesting is that we see the war through the eyes of someone still living in a time when the Indian wars of the west were still being fought and when the country was in the grip of Manifest Destiny and, as a result, Parkman is often very harsh in his views of the Indians and their &quot;savage&quot; ways.  Yet, even so, he often gives them more credit than most of his contemporaries.<br />It is unforunate that today so little is taught or learned about this important event in American history.  Today, it seems that the French and Indian War is all but ignored save for being mentioned as a prelude to the American Revolution which it helped spawn rather than as the major turning point in the history of North America and the world.  For it is this bloody conflict, fought in the unending wilderness of America, where French regulars and courer de bois crept through the dark woods alongside painted Huron and Ottawa warriors to attack the English settlements, and young redcoated soliders marched shoulder to shoulder to their horrific deaths by rifle ball and tomahawk, that gave birth to what would become the Untied States and changed the course of world history.  But even more than that, it is a fascinating period of history more powerful than any piece of fiction.  This is history of the highest order.  Highly recommended.changed the course of world history.  But even more than that, it is a fascinating period of history more powerful than any piece of fiction.  This is history of the highest order.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-19
US	51066567	RXOQC1KZN16WS	0553258206	266597445	The Conquerors (Narratives of America, Book III)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Pontiac's Rebellion and the War Against the Indians	This is another of Allan W. Eckert's Winning of America series.  This installment deals with the bloody Indian uprising in 1763 attributed to the Ottawa chief Pontiac in the days following the fall of New France to the British during the French and Indian War.  In actuality, Pontiac was not so much the leader as the initial inspiration for a frontier-wide attempt by the Great Lakes Indians to rise up and overthrow their British conquerors and restore their French allies to control of the lands west of the Alleghenies.<br />The uprising was a result of agressive and arrogant British policies toward the Indians, whom the British commander-in-chief Jeffery Amherst viewed as a dangerous and barbaric race that deserved to be exterminated.  Against the advice of his advisors and officers, Amherst had instituted a blatant anti-Indian policy forbidding the sale of arms and ammunition to the western tribes which had the effect of effectively starving them out as they could no longer hunt and provide for themselves, a direct result of the near-total dependence of the tribes on European trade goods.  When the British assumed control of the former French forts and settlements in the Northwest, the stage was set for a terrible confrontation.<br />Pontiac's uprising was one of the largest and nearly successful Indian rebellions in North American history, with the Indians for a time controlling nearly all the forts in the Northwest territory and laying seige to Fort Detroit and Fort Pitt.  It was only with Colonel Henry Bouquet's victory at Bushy Run and the subsequent march of Bouquet and Bradstreet's armies into the Ohio country that finally quelled the bloodshed.  The failure of the rebellion ultimately showed that the British were there to stay and that not only was the power of the French in America smashed forever, but that the symbiotic relationship between the whites and the native tribes was coming to an end, and with it the Indians way of life.<br />Eckert brings the story alive with great historical characters like Pontiac, George Croghan, Alexander Henry, Robert Rogers, John Bradstreet, and Henry Bouquet and depicts the important events that helped shape the early western frontier that would one day become the states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana.  Highly recommended.the story alive with great historical characters like Pontiac, George Croghan, Alexander Henry, Robert Rogers, John Bradstreet, and Henry Bouquet and depicts the important events that helped shape the early western frontier that would one day become the states of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-13
US	51066567	RNZQDYPA92BYL	0789446383	341976702	Saga of Lewis and Clark: Into the Unknown West	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Beautifully Illustrated Account of the Corps of Discovery	This is a wonderfully illustrated retelling of the incredible expedition to the West and the Pacific Ocean undertaken by the Corps of Discovery, that amazing group of men (and women) who trekked over four thousand miles from St. Louis to the west coast and back over the course of two years from 1804-1806.  The story of Lewis and Clark's journey to the West has been told many times, but never in such an accessible and enjoyable format as this.  It is pepppered with excerpts from the expedition's meticulously kept journals and vivid descriptions of the unknown land and the native tribes they encountered in their travels into the vast Louisiana Territory. This book is bursting with beautiful photos, paintings, and  drawings that draw the reader into this truly amazing story of adventure and discovery that shaped a young new nation.	2002-03-08
US	51066567	R37TT81DGPG18H	0553263684	384843115	The Wilderness War: Narratives of America, Book 4	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Revolution on the New York Frontier	This is the shortest of Allan W. Eckert's fantastic Winning of America series.  Like all Eckert's historical novels, it is a wonderful attempt to bring history alive.<br />Wilderness War picks up about 13 years after the end of Pontiac's War as chronicled in Eckert's \\"The Conquerors\\".  It tells the tale of Mohawk war chief Joseph Brant, the white-educated Iroquois leader who would go on to lead his people against the Americans during the Revolutionary War on the New York and Pennsylvania frontier.  It begins with the breakup of the great Six Nations as they are torn in opposing directions at the outbreak of the Revolution as both sides fight to win the loyalty of the Eastern tribes.  Brant joins with the British invasion force under Barry St. Leger as he lays siege to the American held Fort Stanwix in his drive down the Mohawk Valley toward Albany, where he plans to link up with a large Britsh force under General John Burgoyne in an attempt to spilt the rebellious colonies and drive them into submission.  Brant's Mohawks, supported by loyalist troops, smash into an American relief column under General Nicholas Herkimer at Oriskany. This bloody confrontation sets the stage for what proves to be a long line of frontier battles, raids, murders, and atrocities commited by both sides in a bitter conflict to control the frontier, culminating with the American's long march through Iroquois lands, devastating villages, food stores, and breaking the will of the Indians forever.  The aftermath of this onslaught eventually brought independence for the new United States, but starvation and death to the once-great Six Nations who would never rise again.<br />Wilderness War tackles an engaging story in a fascinating time period and Eckert, as usual, does a wonderful job.  He paints a broad portrait of life and warfare on the New York Frontier and tells the story not only of Brant and the fate of the eastern tribes, but of the trials, hardships, and ultimate triumph of the settlers who pushed into the unknown to hack a new life out of the wilderness.ers who pushed into the unknown to hack a new life out of the wilderness.	2002-02-22
US	51066567	R1RW8X32D2CVZ8	0879758791	355527163	Lessons of the Locker Room: The Myth of School Sports	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent Analysis of Sports Excess in Contemporary Society	I came across this book long ago while studying criminal tendencies among student and professional athletes.  This is an excellent book that examines the purpose and effect of organized school sports on children and young adults from the elementary to college level.  The old addage that \\"sports builds character\\" is strongly challenged here as myth after myth regarding the beneficial aspects of school sports is exploded by the authors.  In the post-Columbine era, when the detrimental aspects of obsessive sports culture have been finally pushed into the spotlight, these issues regarding athletics and sports-guided adolescent development are more relevant than ever.  The authors show that while sports do provide a basic outlet for physical education, the idea that sports build leaders and create better students is shown to be false.  In fact, they show that what results are students who tend to be more violent and have a warped sense of morality as a result of so-called \\"game reasoning\\" indoctrination.  Organized school sports also encourage standardization, conformity, and an unquestioning submissiveness to authority, while denegrating individuality, creativity, self-expression, and academic acheievement.  They tend to reward violence and punish weakness.  The result is that in high schools today we find athletes who have an over-developed sense of superiority and arrogance that manifests itself as violence and intimidation against those peers viewed as weaker, whether it's a nerdy bookworm or a young coed who says \\"no\\".  These are issues that have been ignored for far too long and this book addresses them well. The \\"boys will be boys\\" mentality must end.  As others have already said, it should be required reading by high school teachers, coaches, and students to get a better understanding of the many problems that face kids today and how school sports contibute more to the problem rather than the solution.	2002-02-04
US	51066567	R1HVFDSQHTNUVO	080328733X	118262215	001: The Conspiracy of Pontiac and the Indian War after the Conquest of Canada, Vol. 1: To the Massacre at Michillimackinac	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Detailed 19th Century Account of Pontiac's Rebellion	This is Vol. 1 of Francis Parkman's excellent account of the major uprising of the Great Lakes tribes in 1763-1764 whose orchestration is generally attributed to the Ottawa chief Pontiac.<br />Pontiac's Rebellion, as it is often called, is generally seen as a epilogue to the French and Indian War.  At the end of this conflict, France was forced to concede defeat, and to hand over control of all their former forts and settlements to the British.  The complex relationship between the Britsh, French, and Indian tribes in the Trans-Alleghany region was in a delicate situation after the fall of New France.  The great lakes tribes, allies of the French and tradionally tied to them trough trade and inter-marriage, were  fearful and suspicious of the British conquerors.  The British were generally eager to establish trade with these new tribes, which had up until now been exclusively partnered with the French.  But the view held by some in the upper British echelon, particularly General Jeffery Amherst, the commander-in-chief of all British forces in North America, was extremely biased against the Indians, whom they viewed as dangerous savages.<br />When the British took control of the Forts in the Great Lakes region, Amherst immediately instituted a harsh trade policy which essentially punished the Indians, preventing them from obtaining gunpowder and ammunition for their muskets needed for hunting.  Amherst and his cronies, warm and safe in their lush surroundings in New York, failed to grasp the unique relationship that had evolved between the Indian and the white traders since the early days of European settlement.  The Indians could no longer support themselves without the trade goods from the whites, particularly guns and ammo.  Amherst also eliminated the traditional giving of \\"presents\\" as a diplomatic offering to the Indians, which was seen by them as a major breach of trust and friendship. This proved a recipe for disaster which was forseen by many in-the-know on the Frontier, particularly men like George Croghan and Sir William Johnson,  British Superintendent of Indian Affairs and a well-respected figure among the New York Iroqouis.  But all their warnings to Amherst and the high command were ignored.  The result was one of the largest Indian uprisings in American history.<br />Parkman's account is an extremely detailed retelling of the uprising from it's beginings at Fort Detroit to it ultimate defeat by British troops at the Battle of Bushy Run and Colonel Henry Bouquet's march into the Ohio Country.  Some people may find Parkman difficult to read and his language can be dry at times.  Some modern readers will find his 19th century view on the Indians, whom he often refers to as savages, as offensive. However, Parkman was a 19th century American writing at a time when the war to conquer the American continent was still being waged and white animosity and racism toward the Indians had not been tempered.  Even so, Parkman does seem to give them more credit than many of his contemporaries.<br />The war's outcome did not bode well for the Indians and Pontiac's tragic fate seem to foreshadow dark times to come for the native tribes.  Even the tribes close with and allied to the English began to realize that their days were numbered and that the attitude toward them was changing for the worse.  Soon, the British, who had once been heavily dependant on trade and military alliances with the tribes would no longer need them now that the French had been vanquished.  The fears of the Indians, that the whites would soon come to drive them out and take their land, were beginning to be fulfilled.  The fallout from this tragic conflict, a despreate attemtpt to cling to the traditional relationship that had existed between the whites and the Indians, would echo down the long years of history.  In later years, great Indian leaders like Joseph Brant, Blue Jacket, Little Turtle, and Tecumseh would try to recreate what Pontiac attempted in1763:  To preserve their homes and way of life, a struggle that would ultiamtely prove a failure.ed in 1763:  To preserve their homes and way of life, a struggle that would ultiamtely prove a failure.	2002-01-30
US	51066567	R1QGBKUZ46Z6UD	0375703209	886306047	500 Nations: An Illustrated History of North American Indians	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Nice Introduction to Native American History	This is a wonderfully illustrated history of the Indian nations of North and Central America, From pre-Columbian times to the present.  The text is straight forward and easy to read.  The entire book is illustrated with rare and enticing paintings, photos, and drawings which help to recreate a powerful history of an ancient people.  500 Nations covers the history of the prehistoric peoples, the arrival of Columbus and the conquest of the New World.  It shows how the world of the North American Indians was changed by growing contact with white traders and how, in the end, their world was entirely overwhelmed by the powerful drive of Manifest Destiny.  This is definately meant as an introduction to the subject and thus does not delve deeply into the the meat of the matter, but it is still well worth the price for anyone interested in the history of our land and its original inhabitants.	2002-01-25
US	51066567	R2N027Q591505W	0471104655	65122895	For King and Country: George Washington: The Early Years	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Best Biography of Young George Washignton	This is by far the best biography of the early years of the life of George Washington I have ever read.  Lewis gives us not only a brilliant introduction to young Colonel George Washington, but also a vivid analysis of the period of the French and Indian War, including the people, places, and circumstances of the conflict.<br />The book first gives a background on an adolecent Washington and his boyhood adventures as a surveyor in western Virginia.  We learn how he grew up admiring the wealth and lifestyle of his aristocratic neighbors, the Fairfaxes, and how he began a long journey to emmulate them and to be a part of their privileged world.  However, Washington's own ambitions pull him in other directions as he becomes deeply involved in the brewing storm of events that would culminate with the conflict with the French and Indians over posession of the Ohio Country and the Trans-Allegheny region.  We follow Washington as he attempts to make a name for himself with the Governor of the Virginia colony by accepting a mission to deliver a message to the French army marching south from Lake Erie to the Forks of the Ohio River.  This single event pushes Washington from the &quot;shadows of an ordinary life&quot; onto the stage of history.  We see as Washington botches his attempt to protect the Forks from a French invasion at Fort Necessity and his anger at his own failure to not only obtain a royal commision in the British army, but to even obtain a victory in battle. Lewis details Washington's involvment in the war from Braddock's disasterous campaign against Fort Dusquene in 1755 to his ultimate anti-climactic success at the end of the long and muddy Forbes' Road in 1758, after which Washington retires from public service to return to the simple life of a farmer forever.<br />I also enjoyed Lewis' attention to the background of the struggle that served as the forge of experience for young G. W.  Here we are exposed to the details and origins of the problems with not only the French, but particularly the Indians living in the Ohio Country and the singularly important role they played and the failure of Washington, or any other whitemen, to grasp that importance.  This is evident in both Washington's and Braddock's terrible defeats in the early war years.  Lewis gives us fascinating accounts of Washington's peers, his allies, enemies.  These are men like Ohio Company scout Christopher Gist, The Seneca chief Tannacharison (Half-King), friend and neighbor George Fairfax, and others.  In the end Washington would emerge older and experienced from a bloody conflict prepared to take on an even greater leadership role in another later fight in the not too distant future.  A great book that I highly recommend.not only the French, but particularly the Indians living in the Ohio Country and the singularly important role they played and the failure of Washington, or any other whitemen, to grasp that importance.  This is evident in both Washington's and Braddock's terrible defeats in the early war years.  Lewis gives us fascinating accounts of Washington's peers, his allies, enemies.  These are men like Ohio Company scout Christopher Gist, The Seneca chief Tannacharison (Half-King), friend and neighbor George Fairfax, and others.  In the end Washington would emerge older and experienced from a bloody conflict prepared to take on an even greater leadership role in another later fight in the not too distant future.  A great book that I highly recommend.	2002-01-24
US	51066567	R2XOHJC7WXF052	0812694325	745858199	The Journey of Luke Skywalker: An Analysis of Modern Myth and Symbol	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Interesting, but didn't live up to expectations	I was very excited to come across this book as I have been looking for a Jungian analysis of the Star Wars saga for quite some time.  I have always been fascinated by George Lucas' use of various mythical motifs and archetypes throughout his amazing Star Wars saga.  It is no secret that Lucas was an enthusiast of Joseph Campbell and his Jungian analysis of myths and legends and how they resonate across cultures and generations.  Lucas himself catagorized his saga as modern myth and it is loaded with powerful images of the collective unconscious.  But Galipeau's &quot;The Journey of Luke Skywalker&quot; doesn't really touch on these aspects so much as describe scene by scene the various nuances of the scenes and characters.  It isn't a bad book in any regard.  In fact, there are many interesting psychological aspects of the story that I had never even anticipated.  For instance, the use of color and it's inherent meaning throughout the saga, particularly references to alchemistic symbolism.  Also, images of the Jungian anima and animus appear throughout the Star Wars storylines, especially regarding Luke Skywalker's quest for the Self.  And of course, there is no missing the concept of the Shadow in regard to Darth Vader and the Empire.  Thus, this is really the tale of two entities, the individual (Luke Skywalker), and the Galaxy at large (human civilization and its many manifestations).  This shows that there is much deeper meaning involved in this wonderful space adventure than meets the eye.  Unfortunately, I am still left to search for a thorough discussion of the profound mythical aspects of this great epic elsewhere.	2002-01-07
US	51066567	RRQ9VC18W34VN	0471619124	528432148	The Starflight Handbook: A Pioneer's Guide to Interstellar Travel	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Excellent Overview of Interstellar Spaceflight Concepts	This is an excellent book for anyone intersted in the engineering possibilities of interplanetary and interstellar spaceflight.  I read this book years ago as an aerospace engineering undergrad and it helped inspire me in my dream to help make starflight a reality.  As can be found here, the technologies for limited interstellar flight have already been investigated, and in some cases, could be implemented today with sufficient funds.  The books provides background on all types of rocket based propulsion, covering chemical, nuclear, anti-matter, electric (ion), solar sail, and solar thermal propulsion systems.  It also provides an introduction to astrodynamics, space power systems, and the inherent problems encountered by long duration spaceflight over vast distances.  As wonderful as this book is, it is badly in need of an update.  It barely touches on more recent ideas like long range laser power transmission, as well as more &quot;out-of-the-box&quot; concepts like propellant-less propulsion.  Granted there is alot of controversy surrounding notions of artificial wormholes and warp drives, but I'd like to see such ideas at least included as possibilities.  As mentioned before, this book is not exceptionally mathematically rigorous, but that could be beneficial to those interested in these concepts without having to possess a background in differential calculus.  These ideas stir the imagination and perhaps, someday, we may see these dreams become reality as mankind reaches out to the stars.	2002-01-07
US	51066567	RCM7677NIIA1N	0582438063	473820147	Witch, Wicce, Mother Goose: The Rise and Fall of the Witch Hunts in Europe and North America	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Good But Short Analysis of Historical Witchcraft	This is a decent academic analysis of the witch hunts of the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance.  Thurston investigates the origins of what he calls the &quot;Persecuting Society&quot; that eventually lead to the mass torture and execution of suspected witches.  He clearly shows that so-called witches and magic users such as healers and herbalists were generally tolerated throughout most of Europe's history.  The origins of the hunts begin in the early 13th century, only here the targets are suspected heretics such as the Cathars and the Waldensians.  Later, the targets shift to include Jews, vagrants, and other &quot;Plague Spreaders&quot; as the Black Death spreads disease and fear across a devastated continent in the mid 14th century.  He follows as the stereotype grows to include its traditional elements of flying, secret orgiastic sabbats, and pacts with the Devil himself.  Thurston argues that many earlier theories regarding witch persecution are flawed or completely wrong.  He refutes, for instance, the long held belief that the hunts were simply a form of social control employed by the church or secular governments.  He also takes task with the prevailing views of modern pagans that it was a delibrate campaign to eradicate secret Neo-Pagan groups practicing their religion in the opposition to the Chruch.  This theory, put forward by the famous British Egyptologist and author Margaret Murray, is still widely held by the general public today, despite it's rejection by many modern witchcraft scholars.  Thurston shows that the hunts tended to take place in times of upheaval (such as the English Civil War when the infamous Matthew Hopkins had his reign as WitchFinder General) or in places where local government and authority were weak.  He also offers an interesting discussion of the Salem Witch Trials, probably the most famous and also the last of the major witch trials.  The witch hunts were a curious and horrible event that seem to belong to a certain time and place, as he shows that the height of the hunts peaked between 1580-1630 but had virtually ended by the early 18th centiry. My only complaint is that he nearly glosses over the connection between the witch sterotypes and the role that they play in the birth of the modern fairy tale, which had its origins in France at the time that the hunts were finally dying down in Europe.  It is interesting to me that as the witch made the transition from flesh and blood evil to fantasty, it has changed our perception of the witch image in our modern times.  The witch is still with us and we continue to be fascinated by the dark powers that seem to touch the dark corners of our psyche.nd place, as he shows that the height of the hunts peaked between 1580-1630 but had virtually ended by the early 18th centiry. My only complaint is that he nearly glosses over the connection between the witch sterotypes and the role that they play in the birth of the modern fairy tale, which had its origins in France at the time that the hunts were finally dying down in Europe.  It is interesting to me that as the witch made the transition from flesh and blood evil to fantasty, it has changed our perception of the witch image in our modern times.  The witch is still with us and we continue to be fascinated by the dark powers that seem to touch the dark corners of our psyche.	2001-12-26
US	51066567	RKREB6KCRMUD6	0674095022	351555057	Captain Kidd and the War against the Pirates	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent Account of the Golden Age of Piracy	It is ironic that Captain Kidd is one of the most famous pirates of all time considering that he was probably one of the worst and most unlucky pirate of them all.  This book chronicles the adventures of those most &quot;notorious of pirates&quot; and gives an excellent account of the times that came to be known as the Golden Age of Piracy from about 1695-1730.  Here are found names like Edward Teach, or Blackbeard as he is better known, Bartholomew Roberts, Edward England, and their ilk.  Armed with tales of hidden treasure and cold steel cutlasses, Robert Ritchie weaves a wonderful tale of the time of the pirates as they plundered shipping and coastal towns from the Caribbean to the Indian Ocean in search of excitement and riches.  The book focuses on the exploits of William Kidd, a man hired as a pirate hunter in a time when crime on the high seas was taking its toll on an emerging global commerce.  Kidd is a poor pirate hunter, but when his crew evetually threatens to mutiny, he is forced to turn to piracy himself.  We see Kidd slowly spiral into oblivion as his crew and his life are pulled into the blackest depths of self-destruction.  Kidd is finally captured by treachery and put on trial as a scapegoat for the financial ruin and embarrassment he has caused his secret aristocratic backers; made the victim of a conspiracy gone awry.  This is a great book on a fascinating subject that has too often been shrouded in myth.	2001-11-15
US	51066567	R2BAWGMWHW5X0Z	0471246905	990023836	"A Few Acres of Snow": The Saga of the French and Indian Wars	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Poor Account of the Colonial Wars	This work by Robert Leckie was very disappointing.  Leckie has written many other books on military history with mixed results.  Overall, I felt this book is poorly edited and poorly written by a man who, as is noted by many others here, is not at all objective in his analysis.  Simply put, this is not good history.  While Leckie attempts to give a broad overview of the history of the settlement of the North American continent, and the bloody conflict that ensued between the French, English, and native tribes, the book trips up repeatedly.  The book begins with an account of Christopher Columbus' discovery of the New World, then jumps nearly a century later detailing Samuel D'Champlaign's expedition to found Quebec.  The book continues this jumping around, often repeating entire passages, shunning any sense of chronology, and often employing extremely biased and unprofessional personal opinions as historical fact.  We also get almost nothing about the Indian, or even the British, view of events.  What we do get is a simplistic portrayal of the Indian tribes as violent and childish savages which negates the significant role and contributions they made during these times.  Again, this one-sidedness seems to devalue the effectiveness of the book as history.  Leckie's books are filled with many narrative passages carried over from his days as a historical fiction writer.  Here the anecdotal moments tend to distract from what should have been an accurate account of the turbulent history of the North American Frontier, from King William's War to the Fall of Montreal in the French and Indian War.  What we get instead is sloppy history.  This book has a few moments of interest, but there are many other books that deal with this period and it's important events far better.	2001-11-15
US	51066567	RI8JDZO999KRE	0195085574	86651291	American Holocaust: The Conquest of the New World	Books	4	31	40	N	N	Powerful	There is obviously a great deal of debate about this book and it's subject matter.  Many feel that it finally tells the truth about the past 500 years of death, disease, and oppression that has been inflicted on the native inhabitants of this land.  Others feel that it is left-liberal revisionist history intended to promote white guilt at having conquered the continent via notions of Manifest Destiny.  Regardless of which side one is on, one fact is undeniable:  a whole lot of Indians died at the hands of Europeans.  Whether through disease, starvation, gun or sword, the &quot;Indian Problem&quot; was ultimately solved by eliminating the problem altogether.  The renants of these once great tribes from across the entire North American continent were herded onto dusty reservations and left to rot, where they still languish to this day.  One has but to delve a little into history to glean the truth of the situation.  Starting with the Spanish in the Caribbean and ending with the slaughter at Wounded Knee, Indians fought a losing battle against a technologically advanced invader and eventually paid the ultimate price.  While the validity of the &quot;Black Legend&quot; of the Spanish in the New World can be debated endlessly, the truth is that entire civilizations were destroyed in the name of God and King.  The Conquistadores, the encomiendas, the brutal extermination of entire cities were real.  Later, the French, English, and the Americans committed their fair share of brutal injustices.  This is not to say the Indians themselves did not committ horrible atrocities against whites who fell into their hands.  There are many tales of torture and executions of white captives at the hands of enraged Indians.  But in the end it was the Europeans who carried out a war of attrition against their neighbors in a greedy attempt to usurp their lands.  And as a note to another reviewer below, whites did indeed willfully infect Indians with disease as seen in the case of British general Jeffery Amherst during Pontiac's Rebellion in 1763 when he urged his commanders to distribute blankets tainted with smallpox to many of the noncombatant Indian refugees in the areas around the settlements in an effort to extirpate them completely!  But the crux of the issue is that the Europeans, often aided by other Indian tribes lured by false promises of reward and friendship, carried out a long and intentional campaign to remove what they saw as the native nuisance, to sweep away what they saw as a savage race of hethens to make way for a glorious new civilization.  If nothing more, this book should motivate you to explore these important histories on your own and make your own judgement.general Jeffery Amherst during Pontiac's Rebellion in 1763 when he urged his commanders to distribute blankets tainted with smallpox to many of the noncombatant Indian refugees in the areas around the settlements in an effort to extirpate them completely!  But the crux of the issue is that the Europeans, often aided by other Indian tribes lured by false promises of reward and friendship, carried out a long and intentional campaign to remove what they saw as the native nuisance, to sweep away what they saw as a savage race of hethens to make way for a glorious new civilization.  If nothing more, this book should motivate you to explore these important histories on your own and make your own judgement.	2001-11-14
US	51066567	R3ANTL60BFJ7QB	0719049768	315969477	Investigations Into Magic: Martin del Rio (Social and Cultural Values in Early Modern Europe)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Excellent English Translation of Important 16th Century Work	This is the first and only English translation of Martin Del Rio's famous treatise &quot;Disquisitionum Magicarum Libre Sex&quot;, a voluminous and comprehensive analysis of the occult, first printed in 1599.  Del Rio (1551-1608) was a Jesuit priest and scholar who felt that Christianity was threatened by heresy from witches, alchemists, and sorcerers and wrote his encyclopedic tome as not only a thorough discussion on the various aspects of the occult, but as a practical guide for inquisitors and secular authorities to investigate, convict, and punish witches, sorcerers, and occultists in general.  In a time when the Catholic Church was besieged on all sides by the perceived heresy of the Reformation, it is clear why Del Rio wrote this long account.  The witchhunting craze was at its peak in Del Rio's time, and the populous was ripe with fear and superstition.  The Church was struggling with it's own Counter-Reformation and looked to purge the church, and it's followers, of any lingering traces of paganism and non-orthodox elements.  It is interesting to see to what lengths Del Rio goes to defend the sacred rituals of the Catholic Mass amid accusations by the Protestants that the very core of Catholicism was tainted by magic and paganism.  He carefully sets out what constitutes what is Godly and divine in origin, and what is clearly diabolical and heretical in nature.  This book was considered one of the definitive works on witchcraft and the occult for over 150 years and was used by ecclesiastical and secular courts to convict suspected witches.  Del Rio himself takes his place next to other well-known anti-witch writers of his time such as Jean Bodin, Nicolas Remy, and Francesco Maria Guazzo.  The book itself provides an interesting insight into the mind of the 16th century man amid the constant fear of Satan and his minions.	2001-11-09
US	51066567	R2TZSV8MR5S4WD	0345435192	682977168	Sign-Talker: The Adventure of George Drouillard on the Lewis and Clark Expedition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The &quot;Other Indian&quot;	Long overshadowed by Lewis, Clark, and Sacagaweah, George Drouillard finally gets his due in this latest historical novel from James Alexander Thom.  A French-Canadian/Shawnee mixed blood, Drouillard is recruited by Lewis and Clark to accompany the Corps of Discovery on their famous journey across the West to the Pacific Ocean and back.  Along the way, Drouillard acts as hunter and interpreter, helping to keep the expedition alive and to provide positive relations with the many Indian tribes encountered along the way.  We get a different interpretation of the journey, that of a non-white outsider who knows only too well the ultimate fate of these yet unspoiled lands and the native peoples who inhabit them.  It is in stark contrast to the heroification that oozes from many other traditional treatments of this subject.  It is a refreshing look at the complex personalities that made up this arduous crusade across a continent.  While the Lewis and Clark Expedition was a great and momentous historic event which helped pave the way for the future of the country, Thom shows us the dark side too.  Through Droulliard, we get a foreshadowing of the many years of hardships, triumphs, and tragedies that will come.  Nearly forgotten by history today, the story of George Drouillard is indeed the tale of a true warrior and a great adventure.	2001-11-06
US	51066567	R11LXPFXETTM74	0395657830	901239170	In Search of Dracula: The History of Dracula and Vampires	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Dracula: Man and Myth	This is an excellent book by Raymond T. McNally and Radu Florescu on their search to discover the real Vlad Dracula, the 15th century Romanian ruler who was the dark and bloody basis for Bram Stoker's classic character.  It chronicles the life of Dracula from his beginnings as a young prisoner of the Turkish Sultan, to his exploits against the Turkish invasion of Eastern Europe, and finally his death in battle in 1476.  It investigates the myth that grew up around Dracula due to his legendary cruelty and murderous bloodlust, including his penchant for impalement.  The book also analyzes the growing body of vampire lore and literature, including their modern film and TV incarnations.  It provides a thorough history of vampirism from ancient to modern times and tries to explain our ever-growing obsession with vampires and their ilk.  The authors' travels took them across Eastern Europe in their quest to find the haunts of the real-life Vlad, including the ruins of Castle Dracula and his reputed grave at Snagov.  It delves into the complex history of a man who would largely be remembered as the most famous vampire of all time, as well as our equally curious fascination with the Undead.	2001-11-03
US	51066567	R1ZVKTDIYP96IC	048625738X	511226596	Compendium Maleficarum: The Montague Summers Edition (Dover Occult)	Books	4	60	76	N	N	Deadly Piece of Literature	Like it's famous companion, the Malleus Maleficarum, the Compendium Maleficarum is one of the most famous witchhunting manuals of the late Renaissance.  It was written at a time when belief in witches, demons, and devils was widespread across Europe and the Church was obsessed with stamping out heresy, freethinking, and the last vestiges of paganism, all of which it saw as a threat to its power and dominion.  This book, which is a reprint of the orginal printed in 1608, is not what many would consider &quot;fun&quot; reading, as the text is long and laborious and filled with examples and effusive details of how to detect, interrogate, and execute witches.  It also goes into great detail as to how one supposedly became a witch and the various rites and rituals that went along with it.  It should be noted that this is not a guide on how to be a witch, nor does it have anything to do with modern Wicca.  In fact, this book deals with superstitious beliefs in witchcraft and demons that clearly show the paranoid mindset promoted by the church and instilled in the generally credulous public in the early 17th century.  It shows the fear, yet morbid fascination, that many people, clerics especially, had in regard to these dark subjects and the murderous lengths to which they would go to rid themselves of them.  To the people of the 17th century, these beings were real and represented a real threat.  The Church, as well as secular authorities and politicians, eagerly took advantage of these paranoias for their own purposes, whether it was to settle an old score or seize large amounts of money and property from suspected wealthy &quot;witches&quot;.  Even without these added misuses, mass hysteria and delusions were responsible for many thousands of tortures and deaths due to this book and its companions.<br />This edition includes a rather long and verbose introduction by the famous eccentric Montague Summers, who was well known for his great interest in witchcraft and the occult.  Summers wrote and edited a large number of books on these subjects in the early 20th century and is truly an intersting character.  His translations and re-editing of this book and the Malleus Maleficarum have made them available to a modern audience. Summers has often been criticized for his supportive views of these works and the actions of the Inqusition during the centuries of the witch hunts.  It is interesting to read his thoughts of and praises for the likes of men like Guazzo, Kramer &amp; Sprenger (authors of the Malleus Maleficarum), and the long litany of popes who issued Papal Bulls in support of the deadly machinations of the Inquisiton and their witch hunting offshoots.  Keep in mind Summers was writing in the 20th century!  It makes one wonder whether Summers really  believed the things he wrote or if there was some other meaning behind them.<br />This is defiantely a book for anyone interested in the history of witchcraft and the occult.  It presents a very interesting view on the pre-Enlightenment mindset as people were striving to shed the last superstitious remnants of the middle ages.  It offers a frightening glimpse of an intolerant world of religious fundamentalism  and widespread fear of the unknown.occult.  Summers wrote and edited a large number of books on these subjects in the early 20th century and is truly an intersting character.  His translations and re-editing of this book and the Malleus Maleficarum have made them available to a modern audience. Summers has often been criticized for his supportive views of these works and the actions of the Inqusition during the centuries of the witch hunts.  It is interesting to read his thoughts of and praises for the likes of men like Guazzo, Kramer &amp; Sprenger (authors of the Malleus Maleficarum), and the long litany of popes who issued Papal Bulls in support of the deadly machinations of the Inquisiton and their witch hunting offshoots.  Keep in mind Summers was writing in the 20th century!  It makes one wonder whether Summers really  believed the things he wrote or if there was some other meaning behind them.  <br />This is defiantely a book for anyone interested in the history of witchcraft and the occult.  It presents a very interesting view on the pre-Enlightenment mindset as people were striving to shed the last superstitious remnants of the middle ages.  It offers a frightening glimpse of an intolerant world of religious fundamentalism  and widespread fear of the unknown.	2001-10-29
US	51066567	RBFB0QMNTMS1F	1555218067	458258503	The History of Witchcraft and Demonology	Books	4	62	65	N	N	Exhaustive Study of Witchcraft from a strange character	This is a lengthy and exhaustive history of witchcraft and the occult written by the eccentric occult historian Montague Summers in 1927.  Summers was well known for his many books on witchcraft, vampires, werewolves, and the history of the occult in general.  He was generally considered The Expert on the history of witchcraft in the early 20th century and was filled with little-known anecdotal tales of witches, warlocks and dark devilish conspiracies as is evidenced by the many long dry examples in this book.  This work is, however, a thorough reference on a arcane subject and is valuable for its many historical accounts of witch trials and other tales of witches, devils, and their arts.  Summers is often criticized for his lack of skepticism, as noted below, as well as the heaps of praise he showers on the works of the Inquisition and its supposed war on witchcraft during the height of witch hysteria.  His translations of notorious books like the Malleus Maleficarum and the Compendium Maleficarum, both witch hunting manuals used for centuries to detect, judge, and execute suspected witches, are his best-knwn works.  Summers appears to revel in the age-old war against witches and often seemed a man born into the wrong time.  He seems to wax nostalgic on the &quot;Burning Times&quot; and its blatant mysoginistic undertones, and this was in our &quot;modern&quot; age.  In fact, he seems almost like a magistrate plucked from a 17th century witch burning and transplanted into the 20th century to write about his esteemed accomplishments! Yet, all this comes from a man who went to great lengths to transcribe and republish Reginald Scots' &quot;Discoverie of Witchcraft&quot;, a 16th century treatise DISCOUNTING the existence of witches and demons and which was banned by the Holy Office and ordered burned by King James I of England! Very interesting stuff indeed.	2001-10-29
US	51066567	RRCVFSJP3VIFH	0425178617	851368215	Blood At Dawn	Books	4	4	4	N	N	St. Clair's Shame	This is the only one of Jim Woolard's novels that I have read and I was very impressed.  Blood At Dawn tells the story of the infamous Indian battle in Ohio in 1791 which has become known as &quot;St. Clair's Shame&quot;.  It was the largest single Indian victory over the United States' Army in history, but for many reasons, it has been all but forgotten in the modern day.  We see the events leading up to and including the terrible battle through the eyes of a young teamster, hired on to care for the army's horses on the long march from the Ohio River.  Along the way we learn of his obsession with a pretty young camp follower and the revelation of a dark conspiracy which threatens the ultimate success of the expedition itself.  This is good story telling and highlights momentous events which helped shape our nation's early history.  St. Clair's Defeat was a wakeup call for the young United States and would result in the campaign of Anthony Wayne three years later which would finally bring the Ohio lands under American control, while sounding the death knell for the Indian tribes that called this land home.	2001-10-02
US	51066567	R1PJBL73RR0T8A	0345380746	389986380	Long Knife	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Excellent	Great historical novel revolving around Colonel George Rogers Clark and his famous expedition to take the Northwest Territory from the British during the Revoltuion.  This book combines history and adventure with the result being a novel that blows away any dry history textbook like a frontier rifleman at a turkey shoot.  Thom brings us back to a forgotten chapter of the American Revolution as a group of desperate Virginians and Kentuckians launch a daring attempt to end the bloody border raids by the Ohio Indians.  Their ultimate goal is the capture of a number of British held forts throughout the Ohio Country thereby breaking British power and influence in their wartorn land forever.  This is an exciting book that I would highly recommend.	2001-10-01
US	51066567	R3PSQPC15PTV7Z	0553264885	676587456	Wilderness Empire	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Best French and Indian War novel ever	While not as well known as &quot;The Frontiersmen&quot; and &quot;A Sorrow in Our Heart&quot;, this is another of Eckert's best.  This tells the story of the French and Indian War in North America, in particular, it follows the life and times of Sir William Johnson, the British Superintendent of Indian Affairs who nearly singlehandedly kept the majority of the Iroquois Confederacy allied to the Crown during a time of great crisis as they clashed with the French and their Indian allies for control not only of the Ohio Country, but the whole of the Continent.  This is good history and it makes for great reading.  What is really great about this book is that it captures the feel of a long forgotten time and brings to life events like the dramatic capture of Fort Niagara and the valiant struggle of the eastern woodland Indians to preserve their race in the face of two warring white factions.  Great stuff.	2001-09-27
US	51066567	R3MLRRIWNYXJI3	0553378651	499414161	That Dark and Bloody River (Historical Fiction)	Books	5	87	90	N	N	I agree...it's great	By far the best and most engaging chronicle of the border wars of the Ohio River Valley, Dark and Bloody River takes us back to the time and place first encountered in Eckert's other great book, The Frontiersmen.  This was the first Eckert novel I read and it hooked me from the start.  It begins with a description of the ancient Indians to first settle the land that would later become known to some as Kentucky and the Ohio Valley, and to others as &quot;That Dark and Bloody Ground&quot;.  It ends with the closing of the eastern frontier in Ohio in the early 19th century and the twilight of the Indian way of life.  What comes in between is a classic tale of historic adventure and horror.  Eckert is known for his great historical novels and this is one of the best.  Here we again encounter some familiar characters like Daniel Boone, Simon kenton, and Simon Girty.  Eckert gives one of the most sympathetic interpretations of the white renegade Girty to date, portraying him here as a troubled frontiersman who was more a victim of years of character assasination than the satanic monster he was remembered as.  Here we also meet Lewis Wetzel and Eckert makes clear that Wetzel, though hailed as a frontier hero in his time and for decades to come, was most surely a cold-hearted killer, intent upon exterminating the Indian race from the face of North America.  This is really a great book and despite being some 600 pages, has often been reread.	2001-09-26
US	51066567	R10HSQG152QJRD	055356174X	62391172	A Sorrow in Our Heart: The Life of Tecumseh	Books	4	30	32	N	N	One of Eckert's Best	&quot;A Sorrow In Our Heart&quot; is definately one of Eckert's best historical novels, right next to &quot;The Frontiersmen&quot; and &quot;Dark and Bloody River&quot;.  It, of course, tells the story of the Shawnee leader Tecumseh, who has been hailed by many as the greatest Indian leader of all time.  Tecumseh came closer than any other before or after him to saving his people from total destruction by the whites on the eastern frontier in the early 19th century.  In the end, Tecumseh's death is not just a loss in the Indians' long struggle against the Americans, it signals the death knell for their way of life, as their defeat in the War of 1812 sealed their fate on the North American continent.  A great and a wonderfully entertaining book, history has never been so hard to put down.	2001-09-26
US	51066567	R1F7T0JN2QSNYX	0945084919	372934503	The Frontiersmen: A Narrative	Books	5	75	76	N	N	Great Tale of the Eastern Frontier	I love this book! Eckert's classic tale of Simon Kenton and settlement of the Ohio Valley is a must read for anyone interested in the history of the United States. This book was recommended to me after reading Eckert's &quot;Dark and Bloody River&quot;. It is exciting, highly engaging, and historically detailed. The notes at the end of the book are a novel by themselves. The story of Kenton, Boone, and the Kentucky settlers is truly amazing. It has often been said that this should be required reading in high school and I can't help but agree. Eckert's books take place in a time and place nearly forgotten by modern Americans. Children raised on the old &quot;Cowboys and Indians&quot; westerns never learn that there was a whole other &quot;West&quot; on the Eastern frontier and the Northwest Territory. I grew up in Ohio, and I never learned about many of the events that happened in my own back yeard until I began reading Eckert! Many people are surprised to learn that there were a number of very bloody and significant battles during the Revolutionary War west of the Appalaichans, right here in Ohio in fact. A whole chapter of our history is being forgotten, but luckily, Eckert's books help to prevent that.	2001-09-14
US	51066567	R16X1UCAC3X2BN	0967094801	476044164	The Border Wars of the Upper Ohio Valley: 1769-1794	Books	3	11	21	N	N	Decent but biased	This is a rather decent account of the bloody conflict that raged in the Ohio River Valley during the last half of the 18th century. Hintzen examines the many larger than life characters of the eastern frontier like Daniel Boone, Simon Kenton, Lewis Wetzel, and their like, as well as the many interesting but terrible battles, skirmishes, murders, etc. that made up the history of this Dark and Bloody Ground. I could not help but notice that the author harbors no love for the Indians in his somewhat unbalanced account of what was, in fact, an invasion of their land. He tries to argue that since the Ohio indians had signed numerous treaties supposedly giving away all claims to the lands south of the Ohio River, that their attacks on the Kentucky and Virginia settlements during this period were murderous aggressive actions against peaceful white settlers who were only trying to hack their existence out of a hostile wilderness. Unfortunately, I remain unconvinced of his views on this. The flagrant disregard the Americans showed toward these same treaties seems to negate his argument. He does, however, examine a number of the different views and interpretations of several charaters who have been mythicized over the centuries, namely Simon Girty and Lewis Wetzel. This is a subject that few others have addressed in their studies of the same timeperiod. Girty has undergone transformation in many minds from the ruthless white renegade of 18th and 19th century propaganda to the &quot;peaceful man of the woods&quot; image popular today. Hintzen feels that this modern romanticized view belies his true nature as man who did indeed revel in killing his former white neighbors. Girty, he feels, lies somwhere between the murdering monster and the just indian-savior. In that he may be right. Unfortunately, there is not yet a difinitive Girty biography to fully investigate the true nature of this undoubtedly fascianting frontiersman. Wetzel, on the other hand, has gone from being viewed as a frontier hero to a psychopathic indian killer. Though Hintzen tries to argue otherwise, I think that the true facts known about Wetzel show that he enjoyed the cold-blooded killing of any and all who were part of a race he felt needed to be exterminated. While this kind of mindset was applauded during the 18th and 19th centuries, I think Wetzel and men like him, at least as viewed from a 21st century standpoint, have become more of a cultural embarrassment. Overall not a bad book but I had some issues with it.d as a frontier hero to a psychopathic indian killer. Though Hintzen tries to argue otherwise, I think that the true facts known about Wetzel show that he enjoyed the cold-blooded killing of any and all who were part of a race he felt needed to be exterminated. While this kind of mindset was applauded during the 18th and 19th centuries, I think Wetzel and men like him, at least as viewed from a 21st century standpoint, have become more of a cultural embarrassment. Overall not a bad book but I had some issues with it.	2001-09-07
US	51066567	RYN62AYH0ZBQV	0415922437	718715749	The Historical Atlas of the American Revolution	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Nice maps...somewhat inaccurate history	I have been looking for a book like this for some time and I was indeed pleased with much of what this one has to offer.  However, as mentioned by several other reviewers, the text and the maps often don't seem to go together with the text often omitting information that is displayed on the maps.  My biggest problem with the book stems from several glaring errors in the history being presented.  For example, the Battle of Fort Necessity is presented in the section about King George's War instead of the French and Indian War where it should be.  Also, several maps show errors in locating certain places and events, such as showing Forts Presque Isle and Le Boeuf on maps pertaining to a time period before they even existed.  It may not be a big deal, but the little things they get wrong do tend to annoy at times.  Otherwise it is indeed a very nicely illustrated book with informative and colorful maps to help visualize the many locations and events presented.	2001-03-25
US	51066567	R1QLTNJ3AISSD6	0874869870	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom Of Cassie Bernall	Books	2	21	35	N	N	Strange	I find it rather disturbing that so many people seem to applaud Cassie's parents for basically forcing her to conform to their religious beliefs as part of their &quot;tough love&quot;.  So is it wrong that she was  interested in the occult and dressed in dark clothing?  Did she need to be  forced into accepting Jesus Christ in her life in order for others to see  her as a upstanding normal girl?  I believe that people should be allowed  to make their own choices in life, especially when it comes to very  personal things like religion.  I think that this book has its merits in  describing the life of an interesting young woman, but I think it is more  interesting to see how her parents reacted to her earlier lifestyle and how  that reaction is a shadowy reflection of the mindset that seems to have  driven her killers to do the things that they did.	2000-06-02
