US	51066558	R3F9GRDK3TZKBS	0743446291	949202813	Lost (Fielding, Joy)	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Don't Get Lost...	At the very least, if you are a fan of Joy Fielding, simply check this book out from your local library and don't actually spend the money to purchase it.  It only took me one day to read the entire book, so I don't feel I wasted too much time on it.  But that's the point: ultimately, this novel feels like a waste of time.<br />The novel revolves around a divorced mother of two daughters: the oldest, Julia, is a twenty-one year old, aspiring actress, and a seemingly impossible and obstinate and instantly unlikable young woman.  She begins the novel pitching a fit because she can't get into the bathroom in the morning to get ready for an audition later that day, and then disappears from her mother's life.  <br />Cindy, her long-suffering mother, spends the novel worrying about her first-born daughter, ignoring the needs of her other daughter, Heather, arguing with her mother and sister, falling  in love and into bed with a new man, and wrestling with her constant thoughts and memories of her ex-husband.  <br />Mix in the plot twist of &quot;what is happening with the couple next door?&quot;, which red herring will pop up next, and subplots coming and going, and you end up with this novel:  one that ends so much with a thud you wish you'd never invested the time spent getting to that point.  <br />As readable as most of the novel is, it concludes in such an irritating and infuriating way that it's not surprising that the book will be thrown into a near wall or dropped immediately to the floor in disgust.  <br />I've liked many of Fielding's novels...this is clearly not one of them.	2003-11-02
US	51066558	R2VUVR360H5EBT	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Grave Disappointment	Patricia Cornwell's newest Scarpetta novel has been long awaited and eagerly anticipated, at least by this reviewer and surely by many of her other fans.  Unfortunately, Blow Fly does not deliver what most of us are expecting.<br />Yes, the novel is written in an entirely different style from the other Scarpetta novels.  Instead of first-person interaction, we receive third-person.  There are no insights or glimpses of the old Scarpetta here.  Kay is now regulated to being a fired, tired, wrinkled-clothed woman living in a rental home in Florida, all aspects of exciting scenes of forensic detail absent.  <br />Scarpetta is not even really the main focus of the book; we get lots of confusing stories revolving around past characters:  Lucy, Marino, Benton, Jay Talley, Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, and many others.  While the story starts out well enough and intriguing, with Chandonne sending letters from prison to those on the outside who helped put him there, it quickly loses its focus into a mess of plot that is hard to muddle through.<br />I optimistically gave the book three stars, because I was so happy to see a new Scarpetta novel, but I'm not so sure it was worth the wait.  While it is not a complete waste of time, reading this chapter in Kay Scarpetta's life will probably not whet the appetite of the constant fan.	2003-11-01
US	51066558	R322JXOW71Y0T1	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	1	1	N	N	exquisite first novel	I sat down with 'speak' and didn't stop reading.  It was absolutely impossible to put down.  Finishing a book in a day (even one written for young adults) is a rare thing for me lately, but this book will pull you in completely unaware.<br />Told in the voice of a new freshman at high school, Melinda, the novel deftly weaves pathos and humor perfectly.  Melinda is an outcast on the very first day of school.  We quickly learn it is because she called the cops on a summer party, but it takes some time to find out exactly why she did so.<br />Melinda struggles with what has happened to her by skipping classes, sleeping, finding a hideaway janitor's closet, avoiding, not speaking. But she soon starts emerging in her art class, where her yearly assignment is to create 'a tree'.  Through her freshman year, filled with false friends, cruelty, and parents that she just can't connect with, she finally finds her voice in the end.  <br />The strength and courage of this character bowls you over.  You see that she is struggling mightily with a great weight upon her.  When the catharsis comes, you as the reader embrace it.  <br />This is the perfect first novel.  I cannot find a single fault within it.  The author nails the dreaded perils of high school dead on.  As other reviewers have stated, it might make you think twice about the \\"outcast\\" at your high school or in any other situation.  There are many secret stories held within; some will speak and some will not.  <br />This was simply an amazing book.	2003-09-06
US	51066558	R39SBWYT8JP998	093798650X	511631376	The Gunslinger (The Dark Tower, Book 1)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	here we begin...	Stephen King starts out his massive Dark Tower series with the words:  &quot;The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.&quot;  Quickly pulling you into this twisted world of fantasy and western and a great quest, you as Constant Reader chase the man in black, across the desert in a strange and frightening place in time.<br />A little patience is necessary for getting into the story; it's not much like any King you've read before.  As relentless as the gunslinger (who we come to know as Roland) is in his pursuit, it's also a little slow going.  King does not give you much back story in this slim novel, although as you read the rest in the series you will learn the past of most characters revealed here (and many more).  <br />Roland follows the man in black through a small town, where he is forced to make a final, violent decision to save his own life.  As he continues on his long journey, he meets a boy from Earth, Jake, who died in our world and has somehow appeared in this one.  Roland and Jake continue on together, but somehow Roland knows he may have to lose the boy, as much as he has come to care for him, to finally meet the man in black.<br />The Gunslinger is only the first of many in the Dark Tower series.  It is not as long, as involved, or (in my opinion) as well written as the others.  It introduces you to Roland's world, but you don't get to know much about it or him.  Keep reading.  The answers start unfolding, and the pace definitely picks up with the second in the series, The Drawing of the Three.  It's a long journey, and a very fine and exciting one at that.	2002-09-16
US	51066558	R2SCWMU1LPQY7Z	0743418727	194962038	Perfect Match: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Great Story from Picoult	We begin Perfect Match with the main character of Nina Frost, a hard working attorney who prosecutes child molesters.  In a wicked twist of fate, she soon finds her only child, five-year-old Nathaniel, has been sexually molested by someone.  Stricken mute by his terrifying ordeal, Nathaniel cannot outright name his abuser.  As the cards slowly unfold, Nina begins to think the legal system isn't good enough for her son and takes matters into her own hands.<br />The Frost family, with Nina and her husband Caleb, is thrust into a situation no parent ever wants to confront.  Disbelief and denial turns to resignation, truth and ultimately revenge.  Caleb, a stonemason by trade, is used to building with his own hands out of brick and mortar, erecting walls and gates to keep the outside world where it belongs.  The intrusion into his personal life is almost more than he can bear, yet he keeps his sanity while his wife seems to be losing hers.  But, as the novel forces us to ask, what else can a mother do?<br />The novel takes us through the process of a family unraveling, of the court proceedings that follow the trauma, and the aftermath of what a desperate mother chooses to do in the moment she sees no other way.  Picoult pulls no punches.  The twists and turns of the story will astound you and it's quite hard to put the book down for a second.  <br />A secondary theme runs throughout, of Nina's oldest and closest friend Patrick, now a policeman.  He is deeply in love with Nina, and while her husband can sense it, she seems somewhat unaware.  Between the two stories, Picoult weaves together a seamless tale of love, loss, a mother's relentless fight for the truth and punishment (however it's dealt out) and redemption.  As always, Picoult delivers a finely written novel that doesn't disappoint.	2002-05-19
US	51066558	RSYDZJFDXUD8R	0446608270	367594357	The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A Twisted Look into the Mind of Serial Killers	'The Last Victim' details the author's correspondence with several high profile serial killers, mainly focusing on his relationship with the \\"Killer Clown\\" John Wayne Gacy.  Jason Moss starts his letters as a project for school, but it soon becomes deeper and more twisted than that.  The letters between himself and Gacy soon turn to frequent phone calls.<br /><br />Jason did research on the killers before writing each letter, carefully choosing his words to form fictitious tales meant to draw their interest.  Whatever he did worked, as he received letters not only from Gacy, but also Charles Manson, Richard Ramirez, Henry Lee Lucas, and even Jeffrey Dahmer, who had only ever before replied to one letter while in prison.<br /><br />The letters from these killers all show twisted minds and thoughts, devious drawings, sexually deviant behavior.  It is a compelling, disturbing look into their world.  'The Last Victim' is an interesting read, but not a completely great one.<br /><br />Jason is a bit disturbing himself.  Putting himself and his family at risk by supplying the murderers with his home address, he is drawn in too closely, especially with Gacy, until it begins to pervade his life;  he is obsessed by the letters, loses sleep, distances himself from his friends.  The final chapters of his visits with Gacy in prison are completely frightening, eerie, and upsetting.  It's hard to believe, though, that Jason could have expected anything less from a man who brutally killed over 30 young men his own age.<br /><br />While it is a compelling read, Jason as an author is not greatly talented.  He is a bit naive and the writing comes off as such.  Still, it may contribute to the strength of the story itself.  An everyday college student delved deep into the minds of such terrible men and lived to tell about it.	2001-06-29
US	51066558	R95R0L13N82BY	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Long, Hard Journey...	I sat in silence for quite awhile upon finishing 'Wasted' and I'm still unable to find my voice.  Marya Hornbacher's tortuous journey through bulemia and anorexia is a long, harrowing trip; for the reader, yes, but most importantly, for her.  How she ever dredged up her past to find the strength to write this memoir is admirable, almost frightening, and incredibly intense.  Do not start this book unless you are ready to take a long, hard, close look at a young woman struggling with an eating disorder.  Things do not start out pretty, and they get no better from there.  <br />Marya starts her tale from the beginning, as a child who suddenly finds herself compelled to throw up her afternoon snack one day.  After the first time, she can't seem to stop doing it.  She is only nine.  We read on as she goes through an early puberty, speeding up an intense hatred of her growing body, throwing up everything she eats, throwing up lunch in the elementary school bathrooms.    <br />We read on about her parents, their relationship with each other and with her;  her growing preoccupation with food, with sex, with drugs.  She wants to escape her life from her parents and does so with boarding school, where she has even more time to spend with bulimia, and then anorexia.  She's hospitalized many times, sees many doctors, therapists, but can never seem to return to normal eating habits.  As the years pass, she gets sicker, thinner, angrier, and upon moving to Washington D.C., she stops eating almost altogether.  When she finally gets to a hospital she weighs 52 pounds and is given a week to live.  Somehow, she makes it.  She's alive today.  <br />In her memoir, Marya goes into brutal detail of every binge, of every bite she does not take.  This book is a difficult read, a journey into a life that seems unimaginable.  There are no easy answers here, and Marya does not put the blame on anyone but herself.  She writes after one hopitalization, &quot;Did my family set it off again?  Didmy father's neediness and my fear of it spark relapse?  My mother's distance?  An article I read?  A woman I saw?  Not likely.  What probably happened is that, faced with a number of things in my life that I didn't like, I turned to my eating disorder because I had never, ever figured out how to deal.&quot;    <br />She was twenty-three when she wrote this, but says she feels much older.  After all she'd been through, it's no wonder.  This was probably an incredibly hard story to sit down and put to paper, but she found the strength to do so.  Hopefully, someone may find help in this memoir if they need it.  To the casual reader, the story will affect even the hardest heart.	2001-05-28
US	51066558	RL33VRDWOAMGY	0743418700	768832350	Salem Falls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unique and Intriguing	Jack St. Bride comes to the small, sleepy town of Salem Falls pretty much by accident, freshly released from prison.  He gets a job at the local diner run by the strange, mysterious Addie, and finds himself quickly falling in love with her.  They both have secrets in their past that almost undo them.  <br />A group of teenage girls who flirt with the occult through spells, fires, rituals..suddenly accuse Jack of a horrible crime.  No one knows what really happened that night in the dark woods, but Jack is thrown in jail again.  The fact that he has already served time for an..offense with a minor does not help matters much.  Addie is determined to find the truth of his past, and his new lawyer, Jordan McAfee, tries to find the truth of his latest dilemma.<br />The story moves quickly, at a rapid pace that sometimes hinders the story.  It seems that Jack and Addie form a bond of love stronger than the time frame allows.  Jack seems to have a problem with being in the wrong place at the wrong time.  Teenage girls seem to be strangely attracted to him, no matter where he goes.  These things add up to the story ringing a bit false at times, but that is the only bad thing I have to say about it.<br />Picoult writes her novels well, with storylines that are easy to get pulled into.  Here, as in 'The Pact', we end with a courtroom drama that intrigues simply to see what comes of it.  Picoult is able to hold the suspense through the end, leading the reader back and forth over what kind of man Jack may really be.  While it is not one of her best works, it is worth the time spent reading it.	2001-05-17
US	51066558	R2RRQ9IS9M25YY	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Hard to Sum Up...	Let us start with the end, shall we?  Stephen King writes in his author's note that he is grateful to have been able to write this novel at all.  Given that he almost died, that would be an absolute truth.  We, as faithful readers, are also glad he was able to write this novel.  The fact that it is one of his worst works yet should be a moot point.  <br />Dreamcatcher is not a good book.  It is not completely terrible, but there are so many things wrong with it that it might as well be.  It took me almost two weeks to finish it; I can safely say that in the 16 years I have been reading King faithfully, it has never taken me less than a few days to devour one of his works, even when I was under ten years old.  Dreamcatcher is ultimately a long, tedious read, one that becomes boring, repetitive, and derivative almost at once.  <br />The story itself starts out promising;  four men, childhood friends, join for their annual hunting trip in the woods.  Things immediately go crazy with the arrival of a lost man, sick and gassy, and from thereforth the story explodes.  Alien landings, intestine-invading creatures, telepathy, military commanders, down-syndrome, murder, car (or Humvee) chases, and ravenous cravings for bacon abound.  The story is a mish-mash of several ideas that never quite add up.<br />King's strongest point has always been his characters, but with all the &quot;action&quot; going on here, we never quite get enough of that.  We touch down on several different people, back-pedal a bit to witness a few scenes from several pasts, but not enough to satisfy what we need.  To center around a group of men who have a meaningful bond since childhood, King does not focus enough on this point to make us care for the story.  It is easy to start to like Jonesy, Henry, Beaver, Pete and Duddits, and want more of them, but King simply doesn't give it up.<br />Dreamcatchers is one of King's weakest works.  Many compare it to Tommyknockers, and I agree.  If you didn't likethat one much, don't expect to get more from this latest work.  One can only hope that his next novel is better.  It can't really get much worse.	2001-04-28
US	51066558	R3NCNN1WZLSRQU	0061098000	937763304	Midnight Clear: A Callahan Garrity Mystery (Callahan Garrity Mysteries)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Best of Callahan Series	I've become somewhat of a Callahan Garrity junkie, and only wish that Kathy Hogan Trocheck would write more, more, more, and much faster.  Come on, Grafton is up to her her sixteenth in her series, and I'd much prefer Trocheck to have written that many.  This installment in enjoyable House Mouse land is the best yet, funny, suspenseful and well-rounded.  <br />It's Christmas time in Candler Park, and Callahan and her goofy mother Edna are gearing up for the holidays.  Out of the blue, Callahan's long lost brother Brian shows up, with an unexpected holiday package: his 3 year old daughter Maura.  Edna is overjoyed with her new found granddaughter, but when Brian confesses that he has practically stolen her from his unreliable, trashy ex-wife, then vanishes for days leaving little Maura with Edna and the not-so-motherly Callahan, things start getting messy very fast.  When the ex-wife is found murdered in her apartment, Brian is the main suspect, and Callahan is up to her ears in a new case, more personal than ever this time.<br />Trocheck never fails to mix in humor and suspense, and it abounds in Midnight Clear.  Adding in more Atlanta history and new settings in the southern suburbs and the abandoned, long-ago Funtown, Callahan fights to clear her brother's name and to keep Maura safe.  A delightful read, with twists and turns, and an unlikable new character in Brian, Midnight Clear is Trocheck's best to date.	2001-04-04
US	51066558	R89QHMDMY1JT2	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Masterful Storytelling	I can't understand the one-star reviews on this book.  Once I got into the story, I didn't want to put it down for a second.  'The House of Sand and Fog' gathers strength as it moves along at a breathless pace, the characters growing more real, sympathetic and profound as you go.  Dubus is able to weave some kind of magic over you with his main characters of Col. Behrani and Kathy Nicolo, pulling you into different directions as you struggle to figure out who is in the wrong here, and you find yourself changing your mind over them time and time again.<br />Col. Behrani is living in California after having to flee with his family from Iran.  Working two menial, hard jobs to keep his wife in a nice apartment, he ultimately wants and expects more from his new American life.  He finds it in a house he buys at auction, a small bungalow that he sees as a doorway into new riches.  After moving his wife and teenage son in, he plans to sell it for as much as three times he paid for it, and then try the same thing again, adding to his money as he goes along.  An unforseen problem arises in the original owner of the house, Kathy Nicola.  <br />Kathy is a recovering alchoholic/drug addict who has lost the house through a small paperwork error.  Without notice, she is kicked out of her home and finds herself in seedy hotels and sleeping in her car.  Trying in vain to recover the house that was originally her father's, she ends up involved in a whirlwind affair with a married Sheriff, Lester Burdon.  Adding to her strain and hopelessness, she begins to drink again.  She is irresistibly drawn back to her house where the Behrani's now live again and again, eventually with disasterous results.<br />The story moves back and forth from Col. Behrani and Kathy's point of view, with interesting feeling.  The reader is pulled back and forth along with them, unable to decide who should end up with the house.  The story explodes toward the end, with results that will surprise and astound.You can't imagine how the conflict can ever be resolved, but the way it unfolds is completely unexpected and powerful.  <br />Dubus has created a truly exciting tale, and for once I'm glad this one was picked as an Oprah selection, ensuring that many people will read it.  Never a dull moment, conflicting emotions, believable characters, and an ending you'll never guess, this one instantly becomes a must-read.	2001-02-17
US	51066558	R27GMBHSTQ3P7G	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Middle-of-the-Road Thriller	Dean Koontz's newest novel starts out very well, fizzles in the middle, and comes back to finish in a somewhat satisying, if a bit rushed and ridiculous, way.  The novel has a big ensemble cast of characters, the most we've seen from Koontz since 'Strangers'.  At times, the number of characters seems excessive, but ultimately they all weave together an engaging tale.<br />The main three stories of the mysterious child prodigy Bartholemew, the psycho killer Junior Cain, and the impromptu family of Celestina and Angel tie together in ways that don't become clear until the waning parts of this winding tale.  Along the way, we switch back and forth between them, getting to know all of them in small ways, but because there are so many background characters, we really don't get as much as we need.  Too much time is spent on the murderous Cain, a thoroughly unlikable human being.<br />The plot loses its way toward the middle because of this and becomes a chore to plod through.  Koontz's novels are usually a very quick read, but this one took me over a week to get through.<br />The ending ties everything together almost too quickly.  Yet with as slowly the story has moved before this, it is a welcome change of pace.  'From the Corner of His Eye' is a fair read, not one of Koontz's best, but worth a look.	2001-02-14
US	51066558	RHWE6213I3ZDN	0140179836	951224713	The Liars' Club: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A True Work of Art	Mary Karr's moving, touching, hilariously funny and poignantly sad memoir is at once destined to become close to a classic.  I can't recall ever reading a memoir this detailed, this humorous, or this poetic.  Words simply fail to describe 'The Liar's Club'.<br />Karr grew up in a seemingly nasty little town in Texas, where there doesn't seem to be anything remotely redeeming about it.  Add to this a family who is completely wacky:  an artist mother who drinks, threatens her life, and disappears at times for days on end;  a father who also likes to drink, work and tell stories with his friends;  a typical older sister who both loves and despises her.  Yet in spite of this environment, or maybe because of it, Mary is able to rise above her turmoils to escape with a love of writing, reading and life itself.  Her memory of early childhood is astounding, her sense of humor unmatched, and her words tumble off of the pages with ease.<br />I heard nothing but good things about this book before I read it, and I was not disappointed.  This is a true work of art that rightly deserves a place in literary history.  Read it today, and experience a journey into a talented writer's beginnings.	2001-02-13
US	51066558	R1EZ2BNYLWUS6D	0876857632	358868458	Hollywood	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Drunken Hilarity	I picked this novel out in the library when I was a teenager.  Nothing could have prepared me for what I experienced with Bukowski.  It was unexpected, to say the least.  From an innocuous cover and title that exploded into the hilarious story of a drunk, his wife and a screenplay, I had to put the book down several times from laughing so hard.  It would inspire even the stone sober to crave a drink.<br />Chinaski doesn't seem to like much about life, save for booze.  He and his wife swim in an alcoholic haze throughout the winding tale. The novel was based on Bukowski's experience with the writing for the movie 'Barfly'.  The narrative here is patchy, the storyline not so important, and the novel ends up being not much more than an endless recalling of drunken days and nights, strange characters, and interesting occurrences as a result of them. <br />I am now a devoted Bukowski fan and nothing I have ever read by him has let me down.  His humor is unmatched.  He is vulgar, disgusting, entertaining and simply brilliant.  While not for everyone, he comes highly recommended.  Grab a bottle and settle in for a good time.	2001-01-23
US	51066558	R2Y9QTDUSSKYVV	0671797867	163324120	Scar Lover	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique Portrait of Love	'Scar Lover' is one of Harry Crews's best works.  With his eccentric characters and off-beat humor, he weaves this tale of an emotionally lost man finding his way slowly back to life and love.  Pete Butcher is a loner, living in a boarding house in Jacksonville, Florida.  He avoids contact with people for deeper reasons than we first suspect.  <br />Seemingly against his will, Pete is pulled into the lives of the strange neighbors next door.  The first one he meets is Sarah Leemer, a tall, beautiful, mysterious girl with a few problems of her own.  She lives with her parents who are equally strange.  As she draws Pete into her life, we begin to see the changes she affects in him.  His life which was empty soon begins to fill again.<br />Crews introduces us to his usual array of odd southern folks and a Jamaican couple George and Linga find their way in as well.  The story is often touching in little ways, and we never stop hoping that Pete somehow finds some happiness.  The title 'Scar Lover' is very fitting, as each character has been scarred in different ways, emotionally and physically.  Harry Crews is an accomplished writer who deserves more recognition.	2001-01-20
US	51066558	R27A2P9I41CQP7	0671897071	438906347	Girl: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Interesting Look at Adolescence	This book automatically gets five stars just because it was written so well in the voice of a teenage girl by a grown man.  Not a moment rings false as you delve into the life of Andrea Marr, a high school girl coming of age in the early nineties &quot;grunge&quot; of Portland.  She faces the familiar pratfalls of life, including all that is important to a teenager...boys, friends, school, clothes, music and sex.  Everything is fresh and real;  just reading it can take you back to the day when you yourself were sixteen and every single moment contained so much importance and angst.  <br />Blake Nelson nails his portrayal of a teenage girl dead on.  I still find it hard to believe, like other reviewers here, that this story was written by a man.  'Girl' reads like a few years of a personal diary, one that the author of such diary never really meant for anyone but herself to see.  Andrea grows realistically, not from a good girl gone bad overnight, but as a true person finding herself and her identity.  If this means making new friends who shave their heads, shop at thrift stores and start their own bands, then so be it.  As the books states, it's only a brief glimpse into her life.  Who knows what happened after high school?<br />I was lucky enough to actually get to read this while I was still in high school myself.  While it is not difficult to get into or terribly deep, it rings so true to real life that it is impossible to put down.  Just reading it again can transport you back to your youth.  A highly recommended book.	2001-01-10
US	51066558	R1H6XNJG94VXTW	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Love and Loss and Much More	The Pact is the first book of Jodi Picoult's that I have ever read, and based on what I've experienced with this, I know it won't be the last.  The Pact is emotional, moving, shocking and surprising.  The narrative is told in an interesting back-and-forth style, between Chris, who is accused of murdering his life long friend and love, and Emily, dead at seventeen and whose voice is a trace of past events.  Moving between present day court proceedings and what actually happened the night a teenaged girl was shot, we delve into the childhoods of both characters and the family that surrounds them.<br />The Hartes and the Golds live next to each other, eat together, gather in each others homes and go on vacation together.  Somewhere along the way, and much to the parents happiness, Chris and Emily end up dating each other.  Soon after, as witnessed in Emily's thoughts and journals, it becomes apparent that she herself is not happy with this;  that something in her life and heart is troubled beyond even Chris's presence.  The mystery surrounding the night of her death continues for the whole length of the novel, and every turn is shrouded in secrets, lies, and ultimately, the truth.<br />I devoured this book in a few sittings.  Picoult does a wonderful job in getting us to know the two families;  both sets of parents are equally interesting and sympathetic, and the story would not have worked as well if they weren't.  The reader never really knows what happened that fateful night between Emily and Chris until the very end, and it keeps you going to find out.  This is a well-written, intriguing novel, and I can't wait to read more of her works.	2000-12-17
US	51066558	R165F9MO5K6C4H	0375407340	879408147	Miss Wyoming: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Boy Meets Girl...	Told in typical Coupland style, Miss Wyoming is essentially a romance at heart.  We get Susan Colgate, a washed-up, has-been, young movie star, a former child beauty contest winner.  Insert John Johnson, a similarly washed-up movie producer who has a penchant for drugs and sex.  Both of these characters take off on separate disappearances, forging into the unknown, huge highways leading them into the unknown.  These impromptu road trips occur for different reasons:  Susan as the lone survivor of a plane crash that gives her the sudden anonymity she has never had;  John through a near death experience at Cedars-Sinai hospital.  When both return to the real world, they meet, then are suddenly separated again.  John feels he must find Susan at any cost.<br />Coupland is at his usual with references to American culture abounding.  He name-drops at every turn, his cynical eye tuned to the Hollywood way of life.  The story moves back and forth in time, giving us insight into both John and Susan's past and the paths they take to escape it.  It's a wonderful way to get to know both of them, and we can't help rooting for them to finally connect.<br />The ending is a bit abrupt, but it still satisfies in its own way.  The journey that Coupland weaves is a fun ride, and that it has to end is the only down point.	2000-12-16
US	51066558	R3LZW8EZVACT1	0671535110	163194594	Strong on Defense	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Absolute Must-Read	Strong On Defense is a book everyone should read, study and take to heart.  Sanford Strong shows in detail how crimes occur and how you can save yourself in the event of one happening to you.  From car-jackings to home invasions, this book will help you be safe, learn how to react, and most importantly, how to survive.<br />Strong gives detailed accounts of real crimes, sometimes in explicit and frightening terms, and then dissects them to show you what the victim in the situation did wrong, what they did right, and how to learn from these events to save yourself and your family.  Like the also helpful 'The Gift of Fear' by Gavin de Becker, it teaches you to take control away from the attacker and how to trust in your own intuition.  <br />The highly helpful tips in this book could save your life one day.  We always hope nothing would ever happen to us at the hands of criminals, but the fact is it happens every day.  Learning how to deal with a situation we never want to think about is the best chance of living through it.  Read this book!  It can really make a difference.	2000-12-16
US	51066558	R3JKPQYTWLP3SW	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Wonderful, Intriguing Story	'Drowning Ruth' is a novel you can curl up with and not let go.  I started reading it and simply couldn't stop.  The characters are all beautifully described, the setting is as intimate as if you are there, and the unravelling of all the mysteries keep unfolding at a slow but non-stop pace.  <br />We are introduced to Amanda as she seems to be losing it at her job as a nurse in 1919.  She decides to go back home, to her sister Mathilda and her niece Ruth, where their parents are dead and Mathilda is living alone with her daughter while her husband Carl is away at war.  Unclear actions (for the time being) lead to the drowning of Mathilda, and Amanda is left to raise Ruth.  Just what happened that night out on the dark ice?<br />Layer after layer seemingly unfolds to more information, more secrets, in a story told in several different voices and times.  We go back and forth, between past and present, from Ruth to Amanda to Carl, and we find more and more questions unanswered, more suspicions uncovered,  buried memories resurfacing, and a family filled with lies begins to find the truth.  The story moves slowly, building the tension as it goes.  We can figure out where it is going, but have no idea how it can possibly end.<br />That this novel is Schwarz's debut is astounding.  The writing is deft and smart;  the author never talks down to us or shows us things until she means them to be known.  The consistency is great, little things that are mentioned pop up again where you least expect them.  This is one of the best books I have read all year.	2000-12-13
US	51066558	R3207TZR6DDFRA	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Solid Entry in Scarpetta Series	I'll be the first to admit that the tone of this latest novel is different from the others in the series, but it is still faithful to the characters and was more enjoyable than 'Black Notice'.  Having read several negative reviews here before I started reading, I was worried I was in for a long, boring haul.  Luckily, I disagreed with many of the reviews and found myself happily immersed in Scarpetta's life once again.<br />'The Last Precinct' picks up immediately where 'Black Notice' ended.  Kay Scarpetta has lived through an attack by Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, the &quot;werewolf&quot; from France.  But her troubles surrounding the case are just beginning.  She finds herself a suspect in the murder of Diane Bray, one of the werewolf's victims.  Scarpetta is forced to leave the comforts of her home, distrusts almost everyone she comes in contact with, and has to face some painful truths about the past.  <br />Scarpetta is almost a different character here.  For the most part, the strong-willed, driven woman we know and love is gone.  She is emotionally wrought, exhausted, suspicious, depressed.  It seems she is only now coming to accept Benton's death and we get more glimpses of her thoughts and feelings as she talks with her friend (a therapist) Anna Zenner.  This introspection and honesty is new for both Scarpetta and for the reader as well.  There is not as much action in this novel, but the suspense is high, the pace is set well, and not once did I find myself bored.  <br />Of course, Marino and Lucy show up here as always, but this is mainly Scarpetta's book.  The forensic science is present, the Italian cooking here and there but taking a back burner (pun intended) for now, and the continuity exceptional.  Chandonne, Diane Bray, Benton, Jay Talley, Carrie Grethen, and several other names from the past are weaved throughout the story seamlessly.  <br />The ending is the best I've read from Cornwell in awhile;  exciting, surprising, and conclusive.  We are not left hanging badly.  While 'The Last Precinct' is different from what we are used to from Scarpetta, it is worth the time and is a great read.	2000-11-20
US	51066558	R2BQHBFDB2954R	0553378228	733870533	Touched	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Emotional and Powerful	'Touched' is as well written as it can be.  It is told from four distinct points of view, all of which bring us closer to what really happened between a grown man and a young boy.  The most touching, yet disturbing, of the views comes from the molester himself.  Unable to help himself, he finds he has somehow fallen completely in love with a neighborhood child.  How this came to be, and all that lies before and after, soon becomes painfully clear.  <br />This is not an easy read.  At times you find yourself flinching from the honesty and pain the characters reveal in their lives.  Yet it should be read, if only for the way the author is able to convey a shocking, disturbing crime in realistic and non-judgemental terms.  <br />The title 'Touched' seems at first exactly like it sounds.  As you read, you find that word showing up again and again in many different ways.  It is up to you to interpret the meaning.  Is it literal, being touched physically?  Is it the way we can all touch each others lives emotionally?  Is it about being a touch off in the mind?  This novel finds many ways to get under your skin.<br />The ending is the only downside in an otherwise tremendous work.  As we see Robbie as an adult, he seems less vulnerable and harder in a way.  His anger is understandable, but it is offset from the tone of the rest of the story.  As it stands, though, this is a powerful work that demands to be read.	2000-11-19
US	51066558	ROVICLP2N7SZL	0316305995	710045321	Swimming Sweet Arrow: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Honest and Daring	This book goes by quickly;  you sit down to read it and find yourself unable to put it down until you're finished.  That is a good sign.  The writing is stark and simple, and surprisingly descriptive.  It is very sexually explicit, though, so it may not be to everyone's liking.  At times, that became a bit tiresome, having to read on every other page about some sexual act or another.  Otherwise, I would have given this book the highest mark.<br />Vangie starts out at the end of her high school years, with a boyfriend Del that she thinks she loves.  When she graduates, she works hard to make enough money to move in with him.  Soon after, domestic life isn't all that it seems, and living with Del, who likes to drink and party as if he has no cares in the world, becomes a struggle.  Vangie's best friend June is caught between two brothers and can't choose until it's almost too late.  <br />Vangie is an interesting character, and her life is quick to be brought into.  Her sexual desires confound her, her inner thoughts undo her, and she has to find a way to make it in the life she has chosen.  <br />The ending twist is inevitable;  you can see it coming a mile away.  Yet it is satisfying and well-done.  I enjoyed this book for the few hours I was absorbed in it.  It will not disappoint you.	2000-11-14
US	51066558	R2EUJXOU3VIVBU	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Detailed and Interesting Look into Stephen King	I didn't expect to like this book as much as I did.  It was a great read.  King gives you an in-depth picture into his life, his childhood, his love of his wife and family, and the path he's taken to become a successful writer.  The detailed tips on writing were well-done and quite helpful.<br />I must say, the parts I enjoyed most were the glimpses into his childhood and adolescence, and then his adult life with his beloved Tabby.  It was refreshing to find out just how much he loves and respects his wife.  The account of the accident that almost ended his life was gripping and real;  I never considered that he came that close to death.  And what a loss that would have been!<br />This book is a must-have for any King fan, but is also informative and helpful for the struggling, would-be writers out there.  As a memoir and a lesson in writing, this book succeeds in all counts.	2000-10-22
US	51066558	R3WCNGA6WJZ1D	0375404112	789687605	What We Don't Know about Children	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Too Little to be Involving	There seems to be many things wrong with this novel.  The main reason would be lack of character development.  I finished this in an hour.  Would I have cared more about these five children if I knew a little more about them?  Or is that the point?  Am I supposed to take the thinly described characters and mold them in my own mind?  I just couldn't get past the fact that they were merely names on a page.  Maybe the book lost something in translation, I don't know.<br />We begin with Martina, a ten-year-old girl on the edge of a cornfield, singing.  Slowly we are introduced to the other four main players in their &quot;game&quot;, but Martina is the only one who is of any substance here.  She is the only one we ever feel anything for.  The story of these five children feels like it could have been something more, but it is short and stunted.  <br />The things they do to each other is grittily described, but with detachment.  I felt the writer should have spent more time on letting us know the characters a little more.  As it is, the story winds up too quickly and disappoints.  While it is disturbing and unsettling, the end result is empty.  I wouldn't recommend this to anyone.	2000-10-22
US	51066558	R24R8KPATWD7M4	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Koontz at his Best	This is the best novel from Dean Koontz, and he has written so many.  Most range from fair to good, but many are boring, silly and juvenile.  If you pick this novel to read first, you will probably be let down by most of his other work.  But definitely give him a chance with this one, even if you've hated his others.  'Lightning' is very good and worth a read (or two or three, in my case).<br />The story's shining light is the main character of Laura Shane.  We start out with her birth, follow her through her terrible childhood, and finish with her adult years.  She is a thoroughly drawn character, from start to finish, and you won't regret spending time getting so into her life.  A mysterious &quot;guardian angel&quot; shows up at all important points in her path, and the reasons behind this soon become clear.  <br />The plot has many twists and turns, dark moments, sadness and joy.  All of the characters are written so well, from Laura's beloved father, to her husband Danny and son Chris, to her hilarious best friend Thelma, to the mysterious stranger, that we just end up loving them all.  The action is tight and involving, the poignant moments of girlhood and life-long friendship and love are touching and the ending is satisfying.  <br />Koontz has not done anything before or since as well as he does 'Lightning'.  A completely entertaining and exciting read, you won't want to put it down until you're done.  And then you are left wanting more.  If all his books were this good, he'd be my favorite author.  Unfortunately, his other novels pale in comparison.  Try this and enjoy it.  There's not much more like it in his collection.	2000-10-16
US	51066558	R14YBMCA95H24H	0553287303	625123516	Second Child	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Fun and Gory	This is my favorite Saul novel.  I don't know why it is so much better than his others, but it simply is.  The characters are interesting, the story flows quickly, and there is plenty of horror and blood to be found.  It is definitely not for the sqeamish;  Saul goes into brutal detail on murders and abuse.  <br />13 year old Melissa finds her already tumultuous world turned upside down by the arrival of her father's first born daughter Teri.  Unsure of herself and abused by her own mother, she hopes that this newcomer can turn out to be an ally.  But stranger and stranger things keeps happening, and Teri is not all she pretends to be.  The characters are written well and we never stop caring for Melissa, who is my favorite here.  The ending is satisfying in the best possible way.<br />Saul has not written anything close to this in his career.  If you read this one first, as I did, you will only be somewhat let down by his other works.  Original, daring and downright gross at times, it is a fun read and should not be ignored.	2000-10-14
US	51066558	R29VCA8YPML9M8	0743407059	568855770	The First Time	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A Moving and Wonderful Read	I have only read one other of Joy Fielding's works.  This novel has convinced me I must try all of them.  I read a lot of books, and this one was the best I've read all year. <br />There are moments of stunning and surprising pure beauty.  Many times, I had to stop reading, put the book down and take a breather.  Other times I had to go back and re-read a scene several times, unable to absorb it all the first time, or maybe just reluctant to let the moment pass.  This book is &quot;that&quot; good.  <br />The story revolves around the family of Mattie, Jake and Kim;  their laughter, tears and fear.  You fall in love with them, follow all of their daily actions and thoughts, never becoming bored or uninterested in a single detail.  Mattie is in a seemingly unhappy and trapped marriage, her husband seeks comfort in other women, and their daughter Kim is struggling with being 15 and growing up.  When Mattie finds she is stricken with ALS, a fatal disease, it changes everyone's perspective and lives.  Somehow, they must figure out all their feelings for one another while time is running out.<br />I must say this is the best book I've read in a long time, and I don't imagine another one to take its place for awhile.  This book is powerful, graceful, touching and real.  I can't give it high enough marks.  It is a novel that must be read.  I couldn't put it down until I reached the last page, late into the evening.  Read it now, and you won't be disappointed.	2000-10-13
US	51066558	R325S1ZIKRGYVW	0825614481	395894938	Tori Amos: All These Years: The Authorized Biography	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Must-Have for Tori Fans	A well written and in-depth look at Tori Amos.  The pictures are wonderful and quite beautiful, and it's nice to see so many of her earlier days.  The book gives a lot of insight into her life and songs, and is something all die hard Tori fan should own.	2000-10-12
US	51066558	R73WTU2E9EF1X	0446519537	340203026	Superstitious	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Run!  Run as Fast as You Can!	Don't be tempted to try reading this horrible excuse for an &quot;adult novel&quot;.  Stine should stick to writing his horror for children.  This book was simply terrible.  Why I finished it is beyond me, maybe I wanted to see just how bad it could get.  And believe me, that's pretty bad.  I found myself laughing aloud at the silly story and juvenile characters.  I don't think I've ever read a book this surprisingly stupid.<br />It's easy to see why this was published;  Stine writes the incredibly popular 'Goosebumps' and 'Fear Street' series.  But 'Superstitious' is so embarassingly terrible.  The writing is very simple, only the sex scenes can rise this above the young adult genre.  Every scene seems contrived and unbelievable.  The characters are so poorly drawn we never really care much what happens to them.  Kill them off?  That would be a blessing.<br />I gave this one a try, having read a few 'Fear Street' books as a young teen; having also been into Christopher Pike books as well, I expected this effort to be more like one of his adult novels.  Not even close.  Don't read this book unless you want to experience a really, really badly written one.  Nothing else I've ever read can compare to the dismal disappointment of 'Superstitious'.  You have been warned.	2000-10-12
US	51066558	R2VYKSADLSU9R7	0812510488	745081288	The Season of Passage	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Almost Perfect	Repeat: &quot;I do like this book, I do like this book, I do like this book&quot;...but I hate the ending.  I've read it several times, each time beginning with a feeling of excitement and joy, slowly dissolving into a somewhat disappointment through the end.  I keep expecting to finally change my mind and truly love this book, to no avail.  I can't get past the sinking feeling towards the end.<br />I have read most of Pike's work, including all his YA stuff, even though I'm 25.  I still will buy an earlier book if I see it for a cheap price, no matter what the title, subject or genre.  I just love him that much.  But I've never really been a sci/fi fan, and I think that may be my problem with 'Season of Passage'.  <br />The characters are great;  I really like Laura and her sister Jenny.  Going into space is alright;  I seem to enjoy stories set on earth.  But dissolving into vampire/horror/confusion in the end just isn't satisfying.  I would otherwise give the highest score for this interesting, involving story.	2000-10-12
US	51066558	RKU6OQM0QOT4U	068816711X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Dark and Hilarious	Homes writes the things you think of but never speak aloud.  Her novel, 'The End of Alice', was a disturbing and powerful piece of work, and not something I could see the mainstream public reading and remotely enjoying or understanding.  'Music For Torching' is a bit more accessible, but not much.  This time around, Homes sets us down smack in the middle of a suburbia seemingly out of hell.  Everyone is crazy, nuts, sexually charged and confused...could this be what we all are really like?<br />The characters are way out there, yet you can somehow identify and relate with them.  Suddenly don't like where you live?  Just burn down the house!  The humor here is different and strange, and not everyone who reads this expecting normality is going to enjoy it.  I myself was laughing aloud at many points.<br />If you enjoy a dark, scathing look at suburban life (I have to liken it a bit to the film 'American Beauty' but more twisted) then this is a book you should pick up immediately.  Homes is a talented author and I will be looking forward to everything she writes.	2000-10-10
US	51066558	R1FTZJMH7O5AWG	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	4	65	67	N	N	A Quick, Light Read, But No Masterpiece	I enjoyed 'Open House', don't get me wrong.  I have read several of Elizabeth Berg's works, and am used to her simple style.  It's quite easy to sit down with one of her books and finish it in a few hours.  In other words, it keeps you engrossed, but doesn't ask much more from you.<br />Berg's strong point is making you care for her characters, as much as she can from how little she gives you.  Sam seems to be a bit needy, pathetic and lost at the beginning, but soon learns and finds strength and resilience where she least expects it.  She has her son, growing older and away from her;  her best friend, so close at heart but so far away;  her new friend, King, who we all have to adore;  her new housemates, who open her up to the world.  Reading through their lives for a short time is interesting and enjoyable.<br />That said, I don't see why this was picked as an Oprah Book Club selection.  I'm glad to see Elizabeth Berg getting more attention, since her past works certainly deserve it.  But this novel is sparse and light;  it is not one of her best.  It is worth a read, but not the accolades.  While I sped through it quickly and couldn't put it down for a few hours, once it was through it didn't linger much in my mind.  Read this, and then go read more of her older novels.  Many of them are much better.	2000-10-10
US	51066558	R3XSNZ3IVY68K	0821748262	337795008	Broken Child	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Almost Unbelievable	While reading this memoir, you find yourself wishing it were fictional.  That there are humans out there capable of this kind of torture on their own children is unbearable.  Having read many different accounts, true and fictional, of child abuse, I have to say this is the worst I've ever heard of.  The author is lucky to have even survived it.<br />Yet her survival is a hard and long struggle, even years after the abuse itself has ended.  Reading of the terrors she endured, then the aftermath of living with it, surpressing the truth, trying to function normally, failing miserably at that, searching for a psychiatrist that will help her...failing at that, it just gets worse and worse.  <br />This is not a story that will make you feel good.  You will be upset, angry, sad and hurt.  But you do find hope in the end.  Hope that the narrator can somehow get through the past and into the future, that if you can survive something like this, then you can certainly survive almost everything.  Not an easy read.	2000-10-10
US	51066558	RNC8W0R5BEMPD	0671746421	511926280	Walking into the River	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Tremendous First Novel	I am surprised this book is out of print.  I found it at a used book sale and decided to give it a try.  I am so glad I did.  Lorian Hemingway's words are written so well, the scenes are so vividly described, whether they be touching or grittily disturbing, that you feel as if you are there with the narrator at all times.<br />Eva starts out bad and gets worse.  The main character of a book filled with many unsavory characters, she doesn't seem to fare much better.  But you can't help rooting for her and hoping that everything turns out well in the end.  She is born to an alcoholic, submissive, weak, and sometimes completely insane woman named Rita, who more often than not prefers having sex with her abusive husband than actually caring for her child.  Rita leaves Eva's father, a crazy man in his own right who enjoys dressing up in women's clothes, early on and takes up with John Earl, who supplies her with illegal liquor and frequent beatings.  Eva must learn to survive on her own, and it's a long road to happiness.<br />At times, the novel is weighed down with turmoil, so much you can't ever see it getting any better.  A sort of salvation lies with Eva's strange aunt Freda, who cares for her when no one else will, and shows her how to be strong.  She is the most powerful, positive character in the book.<br />I was hoping to find more fiction by Lorian Hemingway after this wonderful debut, but have only found a memior.  I hope to read more of her work in the future, because this was quite an enjoyable read.  I recommend it highly to anyone who is looking for a challenging, engaging story.	2000-10-09
US	51066558	RJEQFBF707ZFY	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Powerful and Riveting	Re-reading this book recently was like reading a different author.  I've read everything Stephen King has written, and have read most of it several times.  Sometimes it takes awhile to get back to an earlier work, but you can immediately tell a difference.  The writing flows so well in this novel.  It is just so good, almost better than anything he has ever done.  I can't see it being written in a 'rush', it seems so deliberate and calculated.<br />One of King's greatest strengths is his characters, and although in this work there are only three main players for most of its length, you don't become bored with any of them.  Jack, Wendy and Danny are so well-drawn, in the past as well as the present, that you feel you really know them.  Danny especially is one of my favorite characters.  King does such a good job bringing a 5-year-old boy to life.  He seems to really have a talent for creating children on page.  After reading it, I kept wondering what Danny is doing now.  What a silly thought for a fictional character, but it happened.<br />This book is truly scary.  It's done slowly, bringing you closer and closer to the impending doom.  I had to put it down at night. You can read it again and again and still the fear does not diminish.  I've stayed at a hotel where looking down the long hallway, I could think of nothing but the Overlook.  Truly a creepy feeling.<br />I think King's earlier works were his best and scariest.  Nothing he has done in the past fifteen years can live up to this.	2000-09-25
US	51066558	R1LCS7A0LX8JVB	0061092568	217180677	Homemade Sin (Callahan Garrity Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Light, Enjoyable Read	I don't usually go for such light-hearted mysteries, I prefer more gore and murder.  But I picked this up after a friend recommended it to me, and I was not disappointed.  Having grown up in and around Atlanta my whole life, it was fun to read the fictional events and actually picture where they were taking place.  I could just see where the murder occured, where Callihan lived and ate, where her relatives lived.  I guess that was the most appealing thing about this book.  You may have to live in Atlanta to truly like it.<br />That said, the story was quick and interesting.  You know almost from the beginning 'whodunnit', but keep reading to see him get caught.  I don't think this book was as close to the Tokars case as some may think, but there were some similarites.  I picked this book up on Saturday morning and was done by the next day.  I may read more of her books, if just to enjoy the local setting a bit more.	2000-09-25
US	51066558	R1JNTM45NGQMYI	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	2	4	4	N	N	There's Been Worse...	I was undecided on whether to give this book two stars or three.   Everything I've read lately of John Saul's has been so bad I wonder why I  keep going back to him.  With this novel, I remembered, if faintly, why I  once enjoyed him.  If there were a two-and-a-half vote, I'd give Nightshade  that honor.<br />It's not bad.  Luckily, Saul goes into more of the gorier,  disgusting scenes he was so good at in 'Second Child'.  The storyline,  though, was much the same;  the family falling apart at the seams, the  distrust and suspicion of everyone in town, the old family  &quot;secret&quot;, the slow loss of sanity of one of the main  characters...nothing ever seems to change much in his plots.  The names and  locations may change, but the basic story remains the same.<br />Given that,  this was much better than his recent efforts.  I didn't find myself as  bored with the story; in fact, I sped through it in two days to get to the  end.  If you are a previous Saul fan, you should and probably will read  this one.  I'll keep reading as long as he keeps writing.  Hopefully soon  he can come up with a slightly different story.	2000-09-04
US	51066558	RIG1MXED28X5A	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Absolutely Beautiful	If I could give this book one hundred stars, I would.  This is on my top  list of favorites of all time.  I've only read it twice, but expect to read  it many more.  Don't let the length keep you away;  it takes almost 900  pages to weave a tale of family, love, loss, hope and more to reach epic  proportions, but I could have gladly spent 900 more pages with the story.   The pages fly by at your fingertips and you'll reach the end far sooner  than you thought.<br />Dominick Birdsie is at once a compelling character.  He  pulls you into different directions and emotions; one minute you hate him,  the next you adore him.  In the end, you only want him to be at peace.   Dominick has his downfalls and his bad side, but he has had to deal with so  much you almost don't blame him.  His twin brother, Thomas, is also an  important part of the story, and seems to have all the good things that  Dominick is lacking, save for sanity.  <br />The story draws you in, so  swiftly and surely that you just can't stop.  Even when it shifts to the  story of Domenico Tempesta, the grandfather they never knew, it doesn't  take away from the actions but adds another layer to them.  The transition  between present day Connecticut and past Sicily blends so well you don't  even notice it happening.  <br />The conclusion wraps things up so neatly and  quickly it almost doesn't fit with the rest of the story.  If there is one  weak point in this novel, this is it.  Yet is is wholly satisfying in the  end, and you won't regret the time you've spent getting to know this  family.  I know I didn't want to finish this book, knowing I could read no  more about them.<br />Wally Lamb has outdone himself.  While his other work,  She's Come Undone, was exceptional in its own right, this is truly magical.   I cannot wait to read his next novel, and only wish he has written much  more.	2000-08-12
US	51066558	R2OLQ08JGRELHW	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Get Ready to Read Non-Stop	Want to read a book this weekend that you simply can't put down?  You  don't have to be a follower of Oprah's Book Club to enjoy this one.  From  the first page on, I was completely hooked.  You know a book is good when  you don't want to stop reading it to do anything else, like sleep or eat.   <br />Harley may seem to some as an unsympathetic and down right negative  character, but he is mostly justified in his feelings and actions.  He is  in a horrible situation, his family life is atrocious, his mental health  seems to be in question, and everything seems to be working against him.   Yet he seems to give it all the best he's got, even when that isn't so  great.  <br />The writing is fast-paced and engrossing; you just can't stop  wondering what is going to happen next.  I didn't figure out the ending  ahead of time, so it wasn't written too obviously, yet the conclusion was  satisfying and didn't seem too absurd (as some endings so often are). This  is a book I plan to read again and recommend to friends.	2000-08-11
US	51066558	R2T5PU3JTCKW6K	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	2	1	8	N	N	A Disappointing Read	I have only read one other Nora Roberts book, River's End.  I decided to  give this one a try.  I wonder of all the things I could have rather been  doing than reading this.  Hmmm, cleaning the cat litter box comes to  mind...<br />Well, it wasn't really 'that' bad, but it wasn't very good.  It  seemed to follow the exact pattern of River's End.  Even the way it ended,  with the &quot;surprise&quot; right at the last second, was exactly the  same.  I wondered if all her books were as similar.  <br />The characters did  not ever seem real to me.  They were so obviously characters.  The only one  I remotely liked was Faith, and that was only toward the end.  The romance  between Tory and Cade seemed completely false and forced.  I sped through  the book to the end, only wanting to find out 'whodunnit'. Even that was a  disappointment.<br />Nora Roberts is extremely popular and seems to pump out  her books at a non-stop pace.  In my opinion, she should slow down a bit  and concentrate on better characters and even plot.  While I guess this  would be a good quick read if you have nothing better to choose, I would  ultimately choose something else.	2000-08-05
US	51066558	R2OMFEAC1SS8W	0684827107	542651981	The End Of Alice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not For the Faint of Heart	I enjoyed this book, but could see how some could find it upsetting or offensive, due to its subject matter and graphic details of sex,  pedophilia, incest and violence.  I work at a very small town library, and  this is the only book we have by this author.  I may well be the only one  who has ever checked it out, because it doesn't seem it would fare well  with most of our patrons.<br />The End of Alice is very well written and  interesting.  I read it in one sitting.  However, I could never see myself  recommending it to anyone I know.  It seems to be the kind of novel you  must be open-minded to read and enjoy, and not be offended by.  But if you  are looking for a book with a challenging subject, one that will at times  have you wincing as you read it, give it a try.  Don't tell them I sent  you!	2000-08-05
US	51066558	R1A4464PH71FKJ	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Truly Great Read	This is Stephen King at his best;  not too wordy, not too weird, not going into make-believe monsters and things that go bump in the night, just an  honest, true-to-life story about a 9-year-old girl lost in the woods.  For  people that won't read King because he's too scary or gory, this is the  book for them.<br />I was surprised when I read it.  I have been reading King  since I was myself 9, and while some of his work seems derivative at times,  this was a new and exciting venture. Everything in it makes you feel like  you are right there, that you are in the midst of a huge, unending sea of  trees, bugs, dirt, hunger, discomfort, that all you want to do is be safe  in your bed at home. Trisha McFarland is a well-written character;  you  feel at home with her in the harsh surroundings, you root for her when she  uses all her wits and strengths to keep on going, you pity her when night  closes in and all relative safety evaporates into fear of what you can't  see.<br />I actually wished this book was longer, that I could keep on  reading well after I was done.  At little over 200 pages, this is one of  King's shorter works, and it's one that could have kept going for quite  sometime before becoming tiresome.  If you've never tried King before, here  is where you should start.	2000-08-05
US	51066558	R17MPFZKYXU8UP	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Magical Journey	As a Library Assistant, I know first-hand the power Harry Potter holds over the kids.  No less than five children a day ask for these books, and they are never checked in.  The waiting list is a mile long.  I decided to  see what all the fuss was about.  Am I ever glad I did...<br />What a  wonderful beginning to what I'm sure is a fantastic series!  Harry Potter  is at once a fascinating and engaging character, one I can't wait to read  about further.  The writing is simple enough for the younger children, but  is entertaining for those of all ages.<br />Not only was Harry interesting,  but all characters introduced were fun to get to know and spend time with.  This is a book worthy of all the attention it is getting and more!	2000-08-05
US	51066558	R1KB69MPNI885T	0449005836	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Not the Greatest...	To say the least.  John Saul has written some entertaining and sometimes scary books in his career, but for the most part they turn out like this  one.  If you've read one, you've read them all.  They are all so  surprisingly alike that halfway through you wonder if you've already read  it before.  No, this is the new one?  I couldn't tell...<br />Same evil  spirits, same bad child (or children), same animal mutilations (Saul seems  to enjoy putting that in a bit TOO much), same idiot parents, same small  town people hating the newcomers, same &quot;old curse&quot; on town, house  or family...it's the same book after book after book.  While it may be  interesting to read the first or second time, it does get a bit old.  <br />I  used to enjoy Saul.  I also used to enjoy cheap, B-grade horror flicks when  I was thirteen.  The same old story needs to change sooner or later.  Why  he can't seem to find an original horror plot to save his life, I can't  figure out.  Don't waste your time.	2000-08-05
US	51066558	R2O4LJ0H0SY9QX	0060193956	96534407	The Hotel Alleluia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A World Apart and Close Between	This story of two sisters finding each other worlds apart really struck  home for me, as I recently found a sister after 23 years. Lucinda Roy's  words have a way of drawing you in, bringing you close, and not letting go.   I could not put this book down.  I had read her other novel, Lady Moses,  which was also good, but The Hotel Alleluia is even better.<br />I simply  loved all of the characters, even the &quot;bad&quot; ones.  You feel as if  you are right there admist all the terror and war, seeing your home and all  you know torn apart before your very eyes.  Yet it's not depressing, but  uplifting.  Read this book!  You will not be disappointed.	2000-08-04
US	51066558	R1E4DJX7NR5I7W	0671755064	384410905	Shampoo Planet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Great Piece of Work	When I first read Shampoo Planet seven years ago, I was deeply moved.   Re-reading it recently was a different experience, but no less important.   It is one of those books that speaks to you in many different ways, at many  different points of your life.  I could read it every five years and find  something new to love about it.<br />As much as Tyler seems to not be such a  good person, he is.  His character is very real and close to life, and he  brings forth all things human, good and bad.  His decisions and choices are  not always right or wise, but he learns this and grows from it.  I enjoyed  his relationship with Anna-Louise and how it went off track, how he  realized this and tried to make things right.  Douglas Coupland is an  accomplished writer, and I have enjoyed everything he has done.	2000-08-04
US	51066558	R3KCQDW6TGMLMQ	0684836270	628567784	Exquisite Corpse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exquisitely Beautiful	This is the first book of Brite's I have ever read, and it's sure to not be the last.  I was sucked in so swiftly and surely, which is rare for me these days.  Her descriptions are so vivid I felt like I was viewing the  actions depicted.  While not for the faint of heart or close-minded, this  is a book I will recommend to all my friends.	2000-04-07
US	51066558	RLKT8RWTD6QJ1	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simply the Best	I read this book when it first came out, when I was twelve, in only three days. I have since re-read it so many times my hard-cover copy is falling apart.  This is far and away my favorite Stephen King novel.  The  characters are wonderful...once you start reading, you can't get enough of  them. At times it is laugh-out-loud hilarious (especially Richie), at  others touching, sweet and innocent, and also very scary.  You can't get  better Stephen King than this. Don't let the length of this novel keep you  away; believe me, when you get near the end, you wish it would go on  indefinitely.	1999-05-22
