US	51065911	R1PFUPBEMS7GSN	0812575997	929869987	The Good Old Boys: A Hewey Calloway Novel	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Character & Depth Far Beyond A Simple "Western"	It's rare to see a Western novel with character development of this depth.  Kelton found the formula earlier in \\"The Time It Never Rained\\" and \\"The Time The Cowboys Quit\\" and improved on it even more for this novel.  I've always been fascinated about the arrival of the automobile in the early West.  Everyone didn't one morning wake up and say, \\"Let's go buy a car\\".  So the transition yields rich opportunities for story development.  Like J. Frank Dobie, Kelton grew up on a ranch and heard many of the old-timers sharing tales of a life long since gone.  In this book they're woven into a believable tapestry of hard life in an unforgiving landscape.  Kelton does a wonderful job of putting Hewey Calloway in both the past and the present...and what's so believable is that this character sees both as well as the challenges of the future.  He just hates to see it come.  As the years go on these books will continue to rise to the top as evidence that Westerns are more than shoot-em ups.  They are documentaries on a way of life that set standards, which this Country will seldom see again.  Kelton says this book nearly wrote itself.  Thankfully, he was there to show it the way.	2005-10-12
US	51065911	R7JBN2O4UI6PK	0812574516	465384507	The Time It Never Rained	Books	5	50	51	N	N	A Lot More Than A Western!	Elmer Kelton was rightfully honored with a number of awards for this thoughtful piece of work originally published in 1973.  While it is about ranchers trying to survive in one of those long droughts that seem to come more and more frequent to the West and particularly the Southwest it is much more than a story of survival.  The nearest community in the book is called Rio Seco and while it only exists in our mind's eye  Kelton describes it well enough that it could be one of thousands such communities scattered across Texas and the West.  What came to my mind as he described it is the movie from a number of years ago called, \\"The Last Picture Show\\".  The book is a beautiful study of evolving and conflicting cultures on so many levels.  Kelton does a fine job of laying out the past and showing the future of changes between Angelo and Hispanic to include the continuing question of undocumented immigrants.  Another is the \\"old school\\" way of looking at things rather than the new way.  One of the focal points of the book is the role that government aid plays in changing groups such as ranchers forever.  The \\"hero\\" (and I'm sure he never considered himself a hero of any kind) of the book, Charlie Flagg refuses the aid and thereby creates tension for himself and others around him.  What's amazing, and something to which I consider an honor, is that I was reared in a time and community to have known men just like Charlie Flagg.  This book has been re-published several times and I can understand why.  Really much of what you read in \\"The Time It Never Rained\\" is timeless while other parts provide a beautiful look to the middle of the last century in Texas.  While it's considered a western it's far from a \\"shoot'em up\\".  Other of his books go there but that's for another review.	2005-07-31
US	51065911	RR7E26HX379C2	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	9	18	N	N	Beautifully Woven Account of 8 American Heroes and More	After his superb work on Flags of Our Fathers many people questioned whether James Bradley's authorship would be a \\"one hit wonder\\".  Nothing could be further from reality!  Both as a result of his reputation with his previous work and through old fashion hard digging and research Bradley documents multiple tragedies of WWII with the focus being the end of these brave heroes he calls flyboys.  Obviously this reputation extends to Former President Bush who availed himself for interviews about his personal involvement at this island.  I was uncomfortable with that word in the beginning but after a while it grows on you.  I know many aviators flying either fighters or bombers would give you a strange look if you called them flyboys.  Bradley captures the personal drama of not only the POWs on Chichi Jima but their family and friends they left behind.  The other thing which is somewhat rare in books like this is keeping the daily events of these men within the context of what was happening throughout the Pacific theater.  He does this from Pearl Harbor until after the War's end.  I would be remiss if I didn't mention what a superb job Bradley does of balancing between both adversaries in the conflict.  This is not a flag waving patriotic piece nor is it a condemnation of American policy.  He simply stands back and points out the warts and sensitivities on both sides of the Pacific so when you finish you feel like you better understand why the conflict occurred but are relieved it finished the way it did.  This is a technique which seems to becoming more rare in recent years.  Needless to say, you'll need to steel your mind for the details of how these fine young men perished but of greater loss would be to not read the book because of it.	2005-04-13
US	51065911	R2SE7FUF0D23V5	0786710977	53769991	Keeping Faith: A Father-Son Story About Love and the United States Marine Corps	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pain - You'll Feel the Weakness Leaving Their Bodies	When I started this book I was uncertain whether I would enjoy it.  But after just a few pages it grows on you when you discover the rhythm of Father and Son writing back and forth.  For many readers this is as close as they will ever get to USMC boot-camp and the son, John, describes it in vivid detail.  I'm sure there are some parts of the book that the USMC would rather no see in print, but for the most part they can feel rightfully proud of the manner in which the program is detailed.  Even more warming is the candid manner in which the father allows the reader to peer into his soul as he is transformed from a liberal leaning individual that sees military activities and personnel as a joke to a proud father of a son that's \\"the real deal\\".  An easy read that will keep your attention throughout.	2005-04-04
US	51065911	R3NSGSEDIN4BBA	0887400361	54758029	Timber: Toil and Trouble in the Big Woods	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Another excellent tribute to the loggers of the PNW	From the late 1950s into mid-1960s Superior Publishing provided an outlet for Ralph W. Andrews to publish a number photo books of working men of the Pacific Northwest.  Timber is one of those books.  If one has only a passing interest in how logging used to be then probably one or two books would suffice.  On the other hand if you're like me and enjoy collecting all of his works you can still find most of them still available.  \\"Timber\\" has a number of great photos from when logging started with oxen and then later with donkeys (the mechanical kind not the animal) but it also has some great stories and photos about the terrible fires in Idaho during 1910.  There's also the background about the Tillamook Burn of 1933 in Oregon.  Most of these books by Andrews have a similar approach which is a number of black and white photos combined with stories told to Andrews or which he's gleaned from periodicals long since discontinued.  While Andrews has had his critics for his approach, thankfully there was a person such as he willing to do the work in collecting the photos and Superior willing to publish them.	2005-01-05
US	51065911	R1NSTB7JWWG581	0345461347	258301458	To the Last Man: A Novel of the First World War	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Riveting narrative at the Strategic, Operational & Tactical	Jeff Sharra does a beautiful job of weaving the lives and actions of various WWI characters into a vivid picture of combat life.  Starting with new British replacements for the trenches he moves you back and forth between the principal aviation characters of the American, later renamed, Lafayette Escadrille and then to their German enemies including Richthofen.  At the appropriate time Pershing is introduced to develop the strategic parallel and share the challenges that he and his staff, such as George Marshal, and George Patton faced in trying work their way through the myriad of political obstacles imposed by the British, French and even American leadership.  Sharra's accurate research includes the source of French phrase for 40 men and 8 horses on the side of railroad boxcars which is still an advanced level of commitment to the American Legion which received a number of those boxcars from the French filled with gifts for our support for their past fights against aggression.  Sharra makes the characters, both real and some introduced for story development such as the Marines in various battles, come alive with details of their miserable existence in this terrible conflict.  I had to smile when mention of the Liberty DHs was made as I once met a very elderly gentlemen in Southern Oregon that had flown in the back open cockpit of the aircraft during the war.  He said the fellow in the back seat was the navigator, gunner, and bombardier and they tied lanyards to the epaulets of the pilots and tugged on each one to tell them when way to go.  He said when they put French spark plugs in the DH engines and took off; the higher combustion level blew the spark plugs completely out of the engines.	2004-12-23
US	51065911	R2WHQ0PRIBBTOH	0060088613	73699063	Fire	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Expecting Sugar in my Coffee and It was Salt!	Having been raised in the Pacific Northwest and being around forest fires and fighters for many years, I very much looked forward to reading this book.  And initially Junger delivers.  But then about half way into the book we find that the author's research and writing about the fighters was done before \\"Perfect Storm\\" and there wasn't enough to fill a full book.  So what we find is a transition to writing about being a reporter/correspondent in war.  In his publisher's mind both are stories about working in dangerous surroundings.  But that's not what the reader expects when he picks up the book.  And even then Junger comes up a little short so he uses short stories from a friend and fellow writer from some of their trips to war torn parts of the world to patch together enough to make a book.  My disappointment comes from expecting to have an entire book about the dangers and events of firefighting.  I have hundreds of photos taken by a good friend during huge fires in Southern Oregon and Northern California a couple of years ago and know that what Junger did cover was accurately presented.  There are few books about the men and women who work hard and face danger daily during the fire season.  Unfortunately, this book only partially documents their challenges.	2004-12-07
US	51065911	R3N1MI53EJ5LV	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	155	163	N	N	Exciting even when you know the outcome!	This is one of those rare books that you know within the first dozen pages it's going to be a great read and you're going to be disappointed when it ends.  Robert Kurson's tremendous research combined with a great historical narrative style results in learning not only about the lives of the living players such as Chatterton and Kohler, but the dead sailors on the submarine as well.  While this is Kurson's book, you can see the extensive contribution provided by Chatterton, Kohler and others who shared the experience.  This book fits beautifully with \\"The Last Dive\\", which I reviewed here a few years ago.  I did learn things here, which surprised me relative to \\"The Last Dive\\". I thought they had been doing mixed-gas diving much longer on U-869 then just before the Rouse's arrival.  Chapter 2 is about the dangers of wreck diving and sets the stage of what to expect throughout the remainder of the book.  Kurson makes sure the reader understands this wasn't just a bunch of treasure hunters looking for some \\"stuff\\".  These guys respected this dive site as sacred resting place for these German sailors and their actions (including their own research) supported that belief.  And in the end, I was right...it was a disappointment to see it end.	2004-07-11
US	51065911	R2YY57VQ93M8D9	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Naval Equivalent to &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot;	This book is superbly researched and written.  It documents the personal lives of those Naval personnel, true patriots and heroes, which made General MacArthur's return to the Philippine's successful even after Bull Halsey naively fell for being pulled off of a screening position by a decoy of Japanese Aircraft Carriers. Called the Battle of Samar, I first became aware of this battle while taking my father-in-law to his WWII ship's reunion and no book will ever do a better job of documenting the battle.  He served on a Destroyer Escort (DE411)which was the sister ship to DE413 (Samuel B. Roberts).  The Sammy B., is one of four U.S. ships lost in the battle, whose activity is vividly documented by Hornfischer.  There are maps with sufficient details to support the narrative and show locations of task forces and individual ships as the battle raged.  Based upon hundreds of personal accounts weaved together in the sequence as events occurred, they make the battle come alive with the heroic accomplishments, pain, and heartache of sacrifice necessary for our freedom and liberty today.  Exceptional quotes are too numerous to list in this space but the one I often recount for folks is from the skipper of the Sammy B. as the Johnston came by in the middle of the battle, \\"It gave me a hurt feeling to look at it...I saw her captain... I had met him at conferences...He was on the fantail conning his ship by calling down to the engine room...stripped to the waist, covered with blood...left hand wrapped in a handkerchief...That's the last I saw of him.\\"  Hornfischer sums it up very well when he writes, \\"...it was the greatest naval battle ever fought for distances it spanned, for the tonnage of ships sunk, for the duration of the duels between surface ships, and for the terrible losses of human life.\\"  The images of this book will remain with me for a long time!	2004-02-27
US	51065911	R2VIDFSXT93PEY	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Exceptional Individual Saving Men in Undersea Frontier	After the loss of the Kurst a few years ago, there was an occasional mention of  Lt Swede Momsen and all this very rare individual brought to the US Navy.  Peter Maas does an excellent job of documenting Swede's contribution in rescuing the sailors from the Squalus in 1939.  Momsen was responsible for the Navy's pioneering work with mixed gas deep water breathing, inventing a breathing apparatus for sailor to make free ascendants and developing the diving bell to save men from stranded submarines.  Each one of the sailor who got off the Squalus can thank the remainder of the lives for Momsen for not giving up in the face of the Navy bureaucracy.   One comes away from this book with an even higher level of respect for all those sailors endured during those terrible hours.  An easy read that will keep your attention from beginning to end.	2004-02-17
US	51065911	R28VLE9PS79NJ2	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Deal of Wisdom in Such a Little Book	Mitch Albom uses the life, and death, of Eddie the elderly maintenance man at a amusement park to share some very valuable lessons of life.  After an accident at the park, Eddie meets five people in heaven and the links between he and them surprises both the Eddie and the reader.  What does come through in this book is that subtle links between different parts of our past are not always apparent until much later in life and perhaps death.   Related to this is the question of when and why we must move on to greater rewards.  As was brought home to me this holiday season with the totally unexpected passing of my bosses wife who was only 39 and so full of life.  <br />There is a great deal of wisdom within the pages of this little book.  For example, when talking with his WWII Commander in heaven, the commander offers, \\"Sacrifice is a part of life.  It's supposed to be.  It's not something to regret.  It's something to aspire to.\\"  And the relationship between Eddie and his father where Albon suggests, \\"All parents damage their children.  It cannot be helped.  Youth, like pristine glass, absorbs the prints of its handlers.  Some parents smudge, others crack, a few shatter childhood completely into jagged little pieces, beyond repair.  This little book will surprise you with a story that keeps your attention and offers numerous pearls of wisdom.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-01-01
US	51065911	R218WT0MXPJ50D	0316881465	724255658	Boyd: The Fighter Pilot Who Changed the Art of War	Books	4	165	179	N	N	The First Outstanding, the Second Half.....	When I returned from Vietnam in 1969 to Luke AFB, AZ my Commander was Lt Col Doral Connor who had roomed with John Boyd during a tour in Korea, I believe.  He told how his roommate would sit in his room working for hours on mathematical calculations involving air-to-air engagements.  Col Connor was a tactical weapons controller, as was I, and had a good understanding of what Boyd was trying to accomplish.  My next involvement with Boyd's work on Energy Maneuverability (EM) was when I attended the Air National Guard (ANG) Fighter Weapons School (FWS) at Tucson, AZ, and also when Steve Hepburn and I served as the principal radar weapons controllers for the F-15 Operational Test & Evaluation.  It was during that period that I was sent TDY to Nellis AFB to become certified as an Aggressor Controller with the 64th.  Based upon this background, and after reading Bob Coram's book, \\"Boyd\\" I can say the first half of the book is both very accurate and extremely well done.  And If I had never gone to Air Force Project Checkmate in 1978 where I worked for 8 years I could give Coram's work nothing but a rave review.  Unfortunately, that's not the case.  Things are not always what they seem, and this book clearly overlooks several important points when it comes to the Reformists, including Boyd.  Anyone going back and reading the material released by the Reformist at the time would see that they were against the whole concept of complex technology.  The same technology that permitted striking results during Desert Storm and numerous other lesser engagements.  Boyd's single focus on air-to-air overlooked the importance of accuracy during air-to-ground.  For example, those hard points on the F-16 and the avionics added weight, which Boyd and the Reformists fought.  And if the Reformists would of had their way there still would never have been an F-15E Strike Eagle.  And that's not to mention the extensive criticism at the time of the M-1 Abrahms tank.  They claimed it would neveroperate in the desert...which it did with exemplary results.  Coram also was led astray on several other points.  An example, one of many, is why a TAC General insisted on painting the back of all traffic signs Creech Brown.  Did you ever wonder what kind of reflection one gets off of silver aluminum at night when you're trying to tone-down a base's signature?  I also take issue with whoever told Coram that Checkmate (it's not Check Mate) quickly devolved into little more than a stage play.  I would be interested to know his source of what we did since none of his sources ever served in Checkmate.  Especially in light of a substantial body of very original work on the European Central Region as well as Southwest Asia.  Exactly where does Coram think those briefings came from, if not extensive analysis.  For example, Checkmate was award recognition by the Air Force Association for the idea of the Rapid Deployment Joint Task Force (RDJTF) which was the fore-runner to CENTCOM.  Checkmate, under the leadership of Col Joe Redden (later Lt Gen), was also the location of the 31 Joint Initiatives. As close as Coram comes to a Checkmate source is that he lists Barry Watt's, \\"Foundations of U.S. Air Doctrine\\", and Barry was the Red Team Chief.  Finally it is unforgiveable to not have one word about Moody Suter in the book who was the father of Red Flag and the Warrior Prep Center in Germany and worked closely with a number of these folks.  Moody and I occasionally went to the Fort Myer gatherings and to leave out his contributions which were equal, if not more, important to the Air Power in the 1970s & 1980s is unbelievable.  Especially since there were similarities between Suter and Boyd.  Moody used to say when her retired as an O-6 that it was the zenith of a mediocre career.	2003-01-03
US	51065911	RRT8N2H6EXE0M	0375705619	191034047	French Lessons: Adventures with Knife, Fork, and Corkscrew	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Read Lightly with a Glass of Good Wine & Enjoy	Peter Mayle's lighthearted romp through some of the greatest gastronomic events occurring in modern-day France.  Here's an enjoyable and easy read that one can complete in one transcontinental flight or a couple of evenings before bedtime.  In his continuing style of astute British observation in France, which served him so well in \\"A Year In Provence\\", Mayle walks you through festivals devoted to frog legs, French wine, gastronomic running marathons, near-nude dining of the beautiful (and rich) people at the beach and finally a trip to the 'fat farm'.  I must admit Mayle had me busting with laughter as he describes the female attendant's methods to cleanse his body after the mud bath.  As a finale, Mayer provides a few elusive insights into the creation of the \\"Michelin Guide\\".  That famous organization that over a hundred years has kept its workings out of the public eye so that they can provide near truth for their restaurant and hotel ratings.	2002-08-22
US	51065911	R28ODVRI7PYS9G	006092215X	750605926	George Washington's War: The Saga of the American Revolution	Books	5	3	4	N	N	George Washington but much much more!	This book is an informative and entertaining work covering the Revolutionary War but much more too?  Leckie combines an overview of virtually every major battle during the War with hundreds of facts and backgrounds of interesting stories woven into this tapestry of the conflict.  I loved the way he introduces you to the principal players on all sides (including British, American, and French) in each event and then shares with you the background of their ancestors, their upbringing, and the circumstances surrounding how they came to take the stage.  Since I'm a big fan of General Gilbert Lafayette I especially enjoyed Leckie's well deserved recognition of the General's substantial contribution to our fight for independence.  You've heard about the many highpoints of the conflict like, Paul Revere's ride, Nathan Hale's words before he was hanged, and John Paul Jone's comment in the heat of battle.  For example, I had no idea the substantial contribution as a military commander that Benedict Arnold made prior to becoming a trader to our cause.  Leckie puts these and numerous other events in a clear and concise context of this Nation's struggle for freedom.  Washington's place is not at all slighted but rather serves as the major thread of each of the engagements.  At the conclusion of the book the reader feels like they have been afforded an inner look at Washington's demeanor and thought process (both good and bad) upon the battlefield. As my good friend, Karl, said when he recommended the book to me, &quot;It's one of those books that keeps you turning the pages and disappointed that it's over at the conclusion.&quot;	2002-08-22
US	51065911	R2LSF3XDVHVGSH	0895871785	684997193	The Hinterlands: A Mountain Tale in Three Parts	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Three interconnected Stories of Early Life in Western NC	Imagine as a small child you sat down in the cozy little living room of your grandmother's home with your brothers and sisters and perhaps a few cousins and your grandma starting sharing stories about her early life.  It's in the first person and she's telling about how she came to meet your grandpa and how they made a life together and what it was like opening the West.  Now I don't meet the Far West but simply extending life beyond the coastal area of North Carolina inland toward the Mountains and into Tennessee in the 1700s.  That's the delightful manner in which Robert Morgan shares information in three parts of the life and times of early settlers, and specific families, around the mountain communities of Asheville, NC (that's `ASH vul' for those not familiar with the area).  There's several surprises so don't think you'll know what's coming.  And the language is true to form using such words as painter when talking about a panther.  An animal that has mostly been hunted into oblivion in most parts of the US.  Each part is told by someone different, several generations apart but through little hooks within each story the reader is provided an opportunity to share in the joys and sorrows of each family.  The book is easy reading and keeps your attention throughout and what I especially liked was the sharing of tidbits of information of what was like in those times.  This is a book you won't put down once you start it.	2002-07-17
US	51065911	R1BWLNZTYGAWB1	1569249164	826235092	Tales of the Iron Road: My Life as King of the Hobos	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Window Into A Unique & Lost Culture	I was raised in a Pullman train car on the ground next to the Southern Pacific railroad in Southern Oregon so I saw many hobos, bums, and tramps over the years.  I spoke with them from time-to-time and \\"Steam Train\\" Maury Graham's book was right on.  My dad ,who worked for the railroad, was also against giving anything to the people who would knock on the door for fear that it would encourage others.  But during the day if one came to the door  my mom would fix them one or two cheese sandwiches.  I still recall how she said one time she watched him as he walked back to the train and finished the sandwiches as he walked so he wouldn't have to share with the others in the train.  The railroad yard in my community was too small for a \\"Bull\\" so when they were spotted by the railroad workers they just told them to stay out of sight and catch the next train on-ward.  This book is filled with information about a culture that has nearly disappeared.  It's told in an entertaining and easy to read form.  It just shows you the vast difference between the hobos of the past and the bums with signing saying that they are \\"Vietnam Vets looking for work\\" who populate many interchange corners in Texas and work the same locations for year-after-year.  \\"Tales of the Iron Road\\" shares with you some of the most famous hobos of the past, poems, tricks of the \\"trade\\", recipes, and more.  If you're interested in this side of railroading you'll enjoy it immensely.	2002-07-15
US	51065911	R3GX6ZF02NCJO1	1574443178	758270837	Enterprise Architecture and New Generation Information Systems	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Leading Edge Thought for Future Business/Government	It is always a pleasure to read a well written book in a leading edge arena and that's exactly what this book provides.  With the potential for myself to be involved with  Test and Evaluation (T&amp;E) in Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) I was looking for a book that captured the latest thinking for Enterprise Architecture (EA) and had the vision of what the future held in this fast paced area of business.  Chorafas, one of the most prolific writers and orchestrators of future thought, provides numerous real world examples to document the complex integration problems and a response to evolutionary trends.  Being on Temporary Duty (TDY) in the Austin, TX area it was somewhat serendipity to see a front page story in the local newspaper about Dell Computers vision of the future.  Dell uses EA extensively.  Any senior decision-maker in private industry or government that's not familiar with most of the concepts captured in this book is doing a disservice to himself and the organization he/she leads.  Nanotechnology, optics, and biological frontiers are all covered with the latest information and then linked to the most advanced applications, tools and methods available to maximize return on investment (ROI) for as Chorafas notes several times...&quot;cost matters&quot;. One of the highlights is the numerous graphs and models to capture complex thoughts with relative simplicity.	2002-05-22
US	51065911	R36CM3HMRI81D4	0878424210	797060499	Deadfall: Generations of Logging in the Pacific Northwest	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Captures The Soul Of The Logger &amp; Decline of the Industry	They say write about what you know...LeMonds knows the soul of the past and modern logger and writes with as unpretentious style as I've seen in a long time.  He uses the language (always loggers...never lumberjacks) and shares with the reader the language and techniques of everything from falling, bucking, setting chokers, to trucking the logs.  Furthermore, he does it based upon the real-life experiences of his family.  You learn how they used to rig a spar tree and what went through the climbers mind as he accomplished this task 150-200 feet in the air.  LeMonds also shares the future of forestry (hand-seeding, herbicides, fertilizer &amp; thinning) to move the life span of high-productive crops like Douglas Firs from hundreds of years to perhaps as little as 35 years as well as what the modern equipment does now and probably into the future..  Perhaps you might find the short chronology of the work history of each of his family members in the logging business too detailed but it's more than worth the wonderful stories and perspectives that go with them.  LeMonds acknowledges the scars on the landscape of the past but also the enduring scars on these tremendous men who contributed so much to this Country's development of the 20th century.  I don't think one could ask for a more balanced view of this industry and have it written with such class.  This is the best book I ever expect to read about this subject, which is so dear to my heart having been raised in a nearly identical community in Southern Oregon.  Today I ordered a second copy to send to a dear friend still working in the woods.	2002-01-10
US	51065911	R1RJAGMHMIZE11	0553568671	864755719	Jefferson	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Jefferson As You've Not Seen Him During His Time In Paris	Through happenstance, I've read three of Max Byrd's novels in reverse order.  The first (for me) being &quot;Grant&quot;, then &quot;Jackson&quot;, and finally this book, &quot;Jefferson&quot;.  At first, I felt that Byrd's books got better with each novel but toward the end of &quot;Jefferson&quot;, I began to alter my view.  It is a wonderful account of fictionalized history of Jefferson's time in Paris.  They're some constants in each book.  There's enough sex, including James Heming's visit to some of the brothels of Paris, to provide a lurid view for those that need such enticement and there's also the book within a book.  In this book, William Short, who was Jefferson's secretary while he was this Nation's diplomat to France writes his memoirs of Jefferson.  Byrd does a wonderful job with these memoirs, including a description of Patrick Henry's famous speech at St. John's church in Richmond.  Furthermore, the book does an excellent job of contrasting very vocal Henry, who wrote little and seldom stayed for the &quot;pick-and-shovel&quot; work of committees and meetings, with Jefferson who seldom gave speeches but could put words onto paper that endure for all time...the Declaration of Independence among them.  As a fan of General Lafayette I was pleased to see so much reference to this exceptional hero who is often overlooked.  Byrd accurately portrays Lafayette as not overly brilliant but maintaining close ties to the American society of Paris and fueling the fires for the overthrow of the King.  As with all of Byrd's work his detailed research lead to wonderful &quot;tib-bits&quot; of history that might otherwise reside only on dusty selves of scholar's holdings.  This book is a wonderful account of Jefferson's time in Paris and deserving of a place in any library.	2002-01-03
US	51065911	R1V8B0LFKLZLAA	0887405932	753561673	Glory Days of Logging/Action in the Big Woods, British Columbia to California	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Photos &amp; Stories From When Timber Was King	This is a classic for anyone interested in the history of logging in the Pacific Northwest.  Together with Andrews other companion book, &quot;This Was Sawmilling&quot; the reader will gain a great understanding how trees were harvest, transported to mills and converted into the resources which built this Country.  There's hundreds of wonderful photos from the woods along with many contraptions which loggers created to make their tasks either easier or more likely, more productive.  Can you imagine a raft 1000 feet long and 30 feet wide and deep made out of logs laced together with huge chains?  These structures containing millions of board feet of trees would be created in the far Northwest and floated down the coast to San Diego, CA and further.  There's photos in the book.  There's a great photo of a logger standing on the top of a tree hundreds of feet in the air just after he has completed preparation for high-lead logging.  The book is separated into geographic regions from British Columbia and each of the States of the Northwest.  It has numerous poems written about loggers. (Please don't call them lumber-jacks.  I never heard a man who works in the woods called a lumber-jack all my years going up in Oregon.  Yet a recent TV show about the worlds most dangerous jobs constantly referred to them a lumber-jacks.)  Distraction of this classic includes the lack of a table of contents, index, and the disconnect between the photos and the stories.  Which is to be expected.  Andrews rarely had photos of the people in the stories and vice versa.  Why this short-comings.  Superior Publishing printed many of these books by folks who simply wanted to document the hard work of others.  Regardless whether it was logging, railroading, or shipping they were willing to publish the books.  Thank goodness they did or we'd never have had these classics.  If you have an interest in the history of logging this book will be a great addition to your collection.	2001-12-28
US	51065911	R3NNJHZLYLYTLU	0517085968	900239388	Glory Days Of Logging	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Photos &amp; Stories From When Timber Was King	This is a classic for anyone interested in the history of logging in the Pacific Northwest. Together with Andrews other companion book, &quot;This Was Sawmilling&quot; the reader will gain a great understanding how trees were harvest, transported to mills and converted into the resources which built this Country. There's hundreds of wonderful photos from the woods along with many contraptions which loggers created to make their tasks either easier or more likely, more productive. Can you imagine a raft 1000 feet long and 30 feet wide and deep made out of logs laced together with huge chains? These structures containing millions of board feet of trees would be created in the far Northwest and floated down the coast to San Diego, CA and further. There's photos in the book. There's a great photo of a logger standing on the top of a tree hundreds of feet in the air just after he has completed preparation for high-lead logging. The book is separated into geographic regions from British Columbia and each of the States of the Northwest. It has numerous poems written about loggers. (Please don't call them lumber-jacks. I never heard a man who works in the woods called a lumber-jack all my years going up in Oregon. Yet a recent TV show about the worlds most dangerous jobs constantly referred to them a lumber-jacks.) Distraction of this classic includes the lack of a table of contents, index, and the disconnect between the photos and the stories. Which is to be expected. Andrews rarely had photos of the people in the stories and vice versa. Why this short-comings. Superior Publishing printed many of these books by folks who simply wanted to document the hard work of others. Regardless whether it was logging, railroading, or shipping they were willing to publish the books. Thank goodness they did or we'd never have had these classics. If you have an interest in the history of logging this book will be a great addition to your collection.	2001-12-28
US	51065911	RRX7LJ6LWKL56	068569948X	515330884	Bacon's Rebellion, 1676	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Seeds of Bacon's Rebellion Grew Liberty for All	A few years ago a grave was exhumed at Williamsburg in the never-ending search for the final resting place of Nathaniel Bacon.  It provide no new clues, but people continue the search.  This little 60-page book published in 1957 explains why people continue searching.  Bacon was one of the truly early (one hundred years before the Union) patriots that sought to lift the heavy yoke of taxation while granting all men the rights of equal representation.  While much of what Wertenbaker covers can be found in a good Encyclopedia, you'll still find some additional information about the early white settlers to this continent and their involvement with England as well as the role the Indian Wars played in the \\"Bacon Rebellion\\".  Wertenbaker provides numerous quotations from correspondence between Sir William Berkley and Bacon as well as others at this fire storm of revolt which would never be fully extinguished until decades later with the break from England's hold.  It covers not only Bacon's life but also the mystery surrounding his last remains.	2001-12-18
US	51065911	R17K91NARNVRQB	0887405940	9829609	This Was Sawmilling	Books	4	13	14	N	N	One of Very Few Sources to Document When Sawmilling was King	Comprehensive books on early sawmilling in the Pacific Northwest are very rare.  This book is as good as it gets.  Andrew's companion book (both published by Superior Publishing in the 1950s) was called, &quot;This Was Logging&quot; and together they describe an industry mostly lost to history.  There are hundreds of outstanding photos in &quot;Sawmilling&quot;, on the other hand I found the book to be somewhat unorganized based upon the chapter headings and sub-headings.  After studying the book for some time I was never able to discern where Andrews was going with the organization.  Added to that is the lack of references or index, but it's worth the price of these distractions to have these photos and stories of yesteryear still available to enjoy. In some cases he captures pieces from trade journals or company magazines that would have been lost to history if not for his efforts.  But that can be said about all three of Andrews works, the third being, &quot;Redwood Classic&quot;.  The book includes an explanation of the sawmill sign language between the sawyer and setter.  Having been around sawmills as a youngster and having worked in a plywood plant for Robert Dollar Co. during breaks from college, I love to learn the job titles of the different folks in a mill.  But even more interesting was the language in a shingle mill.  Titles as the shingle weaver, upright sawyer, short staker, hand machine sawyer, packer, double-block sawyer and knot sawyer...all jobs where men labored long hours under very tough conditions and now lost to obscurity except for in books such as this one.  While this book documents many of the big operations such as Pope and Talbot and many small ones, there were literally thousands of small mills throughout the Pacific Northwest and the photos in the book could have come from any of them.  If you want to learn about a livelihood that is only a shadow of it's former self get a copy of Andrew's book and see an industry as it once was.	2001-12-09
US	51065911	RYSCFAX3LB84F	0553379356	328378329	Jackson: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Postulates the Under Currents Used to Elect Jackson	As with several of his books, Max Byrd uses the interesting technique of using the writing of fictional characters to tell true stories of heroes of the past.  This book is set in 1827-1828 as Andrew Jackson is running for President against John Quincy Adams.  David Chase in this book serves a similar role as Nicolas Trist in the book &quot;Grant&quot; where a writer returns from abroad and is given the job of writing about the central character.  In this book Chase's employer is hoping for a hatchet job on Andrew to prevent the &quot;uncultured&quot; forces of the West from gaining access to the White House.  Similar to &quot;Grant&quot; there's also a smattering of romance among the fictional characters to keep the story spicey.  Byrd is a well-educated man and it is easily reflected in his work.  One doesn't have to know Latin but there is more than one example where it would help...&quot;Veni, vidi, vici.&quot;  What's most enjoyable is how Byrd weaves tid-bits of facts into his historical profiles.  I had never thought about how the cast-iron frame had extended the life of pianos because a complete wooden frame would be destroyed by the masters in short order.  One of the central themes involves rumors and truths about Jackson's wife, Rachael.  Will her early indiscretions be enough to sink Jackson's bid for the White House?  Byrd does a nice job of addressing this with known facts, interspersed with supposition.  Finally, there's a great deal in this book about a man whom history has mostly forgotten...General Coffee.  Coffee was with Jackson throughout many years of his adult life, serving with him at New Orleans and back into civilian life through Jackson's presidency.  If you're interested in those that shaped this Union during the early 1800s you'll enjoy this book.	2001-10-30
US	51065911	RVQ3V6GGXFZQW	0688132200	845163030	Theodore Roosevelt: A Life	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Miller Makes TR's Big Smile &amp; High-pitched Voice Come Alive	As a military officer I always felt like TR's actions with the Rough Riders were more to gain publicity than as a professional soldier.  I visited the Rough Rider Museum in Las Vegas, NM in 1995 and that only underscored my belief.  (The only error I found in the book was a reference to the first of many reunions of the Rough Riders being held at Las Vegas, NV rather than NM)  Furthermore, I always thought his actions regarding the great outdoors was a faade of the poor little rich kid that ventured into the wilderness with numerous man-servants at the ready.  After reading this book I realize how wrong I was on all accounts.  Nathan Miller takes us from before TR's birth all the way through his life and does it in a very readable and accurate manner.  Thankfully, Teede, as he was called as a child, kept a detailed diary from the earliest age and wrote numerous letters throughout his life.  These serve to provide a vivid portrayal of a sickly youngster that collected and stuffed hundreds of birds and small animals for his father's Roosevelt Natural Museum.  With his asthmatic condition, coke-bottle glasses (he didn't know he could hardly see until 13) and high-pitched voice he constantly was working to fit-in.  Of course, having inherited sufficient capital to do as he pleased was very helpful.  When I started reading this book I thought I'd read a few pages and before I knew it was well into the book.  Miller does a nice job of tying history together in a way that makes the characters come alive.  Time and again Miller makes a series of observations about TR and then substantiates it with quotes from TR's letters or books.  A very delightful book that's guaranteed to provide you with new in-sights into a leader that would defend our Nation during any time or trouble.	2001-09-17
US	51065911	RXWTRZVRNKN6M	0380814110	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, and the Man Who Won the War	Books	1	8	17	N	N	Wide of Circle Error Probable (CEP) for Tibbets-A True Hero	What a disappointment! The author, Bob Greene, tries to turn a newspaper column about Paul Tibbets into a book with abysmal results. Greene father lived his later years in Columbus which happens to be the community where Paul Tibbets has spent his later years. Green's father passes away and Greene spends the first half of the book trying to link that deep sadness with Paul. Greene interviews Tibbets several times in a bar and I get so tired of hearing about this elderly man sitting in the bar I'm ready to scream. Greene's writing technique is to drive a thought by you a few times and let you have a little bit of it each time. I hate it in a discussion and find it even more annoying in text. Greene had a wonderful opportunity to develop a detailed composition about a true American hero and blew it. Some of the questions he asked Tibbets would have been more appropriate for a grade school essay. Asking Tibbets if he was afraid of anything and what it was, seems to be one step removed from, &quot;What's your favorite color.&quot; Save your money...THIS BOOK DOESN'T DO JUSTICE TO TIBBETS WHO IS A TRUE AMERICAN HERO!	2001-08-31
US	51065911	R377W1H024DTZ8	0553380184	610218381	Grant: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Novel Centered on the Last Five Years of Grant's Life	A historical fiction about Grant beginning in the fall of 1879 and ending with his death in 1885.  It begins when the Country and specifically the Republican party is looking for a Presidential candidate.  Grant is not actively campaigned for the nomination which, if elected, would make him President for a third term.  The author, Max Byrd, uses an interesting technique of describing Grant's persona by telling stories, some well known and some not, about people who touched his life.  Some of the people are friends and some frankly, are enemies.  Byrd uses a fictitious newspaper reporter as the forcing function to tie the many stories together into an enjoyable and informative novel.  Somewhat distracting for me was his technique of hyphenation--that carry substantial and granted informative amplification but in some cases goes on for several lines--to make his point.  I enjoyed very much the detailed pictures that Byrd paints of the life and times of Washington D.C. The Republican convention was held in Chicago in 1880.  Byrd does a nice job of describing the activities of that gathering where Grant had over 300 votes, but insufficient for nomination.  Garfield was continuing to advocate John Sherman and then on the thirty-sixth vote the convention rolled-over and nominated Garfield himself.  While the words, or course, are Byrd's creation, most of the characters are real.  I found it interesting to take the book and walk around the area near Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C. and see the houses where Grant and the other characters came and went.  Many interesting facts...for example, I was surprised to learn that Mark Twain convinced Grant to let the publisher that he owned publish the Memoirs of Grant.  Twain paid him in advance because Grant's investment partner, Ward, had embezzled all their money.  Byrd also has written similar fictionalized novels about Jefferson and Andrew Jackson.  I plan to read both of those as well.	2001-08-21
US	51065911	RGMUJVKXG3083	0870332635	483568906	The Oyster Wars of Chesapeake Bay	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Documents Hard Feelings between VA &amp; MD for 200 Yrs	Currently much of Northern Virginia gets their drinking water from the Potomac River.  For several years they've been trying to extend the intake pipe into the middle of the River where the water is less muddy and requires less treatment.  The State of Maryland has fought them in court every step of the way because Maryland owns to the high-water mark on the Virginia side. The hard feelings between these two States goes back to the time they were Colonies and this book traces the history all the way through.  This book is about the oyster wars which began in the late 1800s and extended up until the 1960s.  You may find it hard to believe but as late as 1959 Maryland Oyster Patrol Boats fired on an unarmed boat near the Virginia shore which was dredging oysters and murdered one of the crewman.  And I don't mean one bullet but a storm of bullets because they didn't have a Maryland license. The author, John Wennersten, did a nice job of research on a subject that wasn't heavily documented.  He points out how rugged and plain mean a number of these early watermen were.  Before the time of engines they would Shanghai vagrants in New York City, Philadelphia, and Baltimore.  Once they got them on the boats on the Chesapeake Bay that's where they stayed until the end of the season.  In a number of cases the end of the season would find them getting knocked into the water by the sail rigging...it was called \\"paid at the boom\\" because the skipper wouldn't have to pay them if they drowned.  The book is only about 130 pages of easy reading with some nice photos and sketches of the early oyster and patrol boats.  It's a must of anyone wanting to acquire a thorough knowledge of life on the Chesapeake Bay.	2001-07-26
US	51065911	R2NYAGZICGB4T8	0671244094	917728591	The Path Between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal, 1870-1914	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Vision, Hard Work &amp; Sacrifice, Along With Politics= A Canal	As with all of David McCullough's work you get a thoroughly researched piece that separates fact from unsubstantiated claims.  If it's the latter he tells you so.  The book provides excellent details of the early exploration and the initial French effort including profiles of Ferdinand de Lesseps and the engineers that supported.  Reading McCullough's account of the meeting in Paris when the French decided to move forward with a sea-level canal makes you wish that you could have been present to enjoy the rhetoric.  If you've ever wondered about the details of tropical diseases, malaria, yellow-fever, etc., this is the book that puts it the pain in perspective.  But not just in terms of numbers of sick and deaths (one doctor estimated that one-third of the 19,000 work force were sick or dying in 1884) but in the physical and mental toll on specific individuals critical to the effort.  The author points out how de Lessep's previous success both helped and hindered the French attempt but it's telling to learn that toward the end de Lessep acknowledged Panama was ten times harder.  McCullough's effort with the US activities is just as complete including extensive details about the political intrigue of buying the isthmus from France and Panama seceding from Columbia.  He also shares how the project seemed to destroy or alter some of the best leaders that this country could produce.  As one reads this book they can find a photo included of almost every major character on the scene.  And there's no glossing over things that are painful.  For example the double standards of the color line between the unskilled West Indians who worked, lived, and died there and the whites who lived and worked almost in a paradise.  Clearly the best history of the Panama Canal that I've ever read.	2001-07-23
US	51065911	RDBLPLB96L8F5	0962838802	991126492	The Doom Pussy II	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A True Patriot Writing About the Heroes of SEA	Elaine Shepard is that rare journalist of unequalled patriotism when it comes to the War in Southeast Asia.  She supported our forces with class and respect rarely seen in the reports from the front.  As one reads this book you&#8217;ll see that she took the time to learn the name and hometown of virtually every individual she met.  There are wonderful stories contained throughout the pages of this book which without her efforts would have been lost forever. True, there are other places where the sterile history of the war is presented but Ms. Shepard&#8217;s work makes the stories come alive.  Granted, there are times that the flow of the book seems to be somewhat disjointed but that&#8217;s to be expected with the nature of unrelated the war stories.  My only disappointment was that she didn&#8217;t name names of some ...that were trying to destroy her career and otherwise undermine the morale of the forces in SEA.  But I guess she was too much of a lady for that.  While I never met Elaine I did work with many of the folks about whom she wrote in DOOM Pussy II.  As a Ground Control Intercept (GCI) Controllers, each night I&#8217;d talk with the Redbirds or Yellowbirds as they launched from Phan Rang and headed North. Then later that night we&#8217;d talk with them as they came back to recover at home base.  Then during off-days we&#8217;d catch a flight to the base and spend the evening partying in their club, meeting all the folks, and sharing war stories first hand.	2001-06-18
US	51065911	R2DHDJWF9T8X7K	1556222556	144943806	Exploring Alamo Legends	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You Don't Know the Alamo Until You've Read This Book	How many men came with David Crockett to the Alamo?  Did Crockett and some of his men surrender and were then executed when Santa Anna said, &quot;I said take no prisoners&quot;? Did a flag fly over the Alamo and what did it look like?  Did Travis really draw a line in the sand and tell everyone that wanted to stay to step over it?  Or did he say everyone that wanted to go to step over the line?  These are just a few of the unanswered questions about the battle at the Alamo that Wallace Chariton tries to learn more about following years of research.  And what makes this a special treat is that he tries to answer these and other questions with a sense of Texas humor.  Not in a disrespectful way for these true patriots of Texas independence but in a manner that makes the reader want to turn the page and see what the next facts were that have been lost to the years.  Chariton does a very balanced analysis on many portions of the legends of the Alamo that most people just take for granted.  This book is a very enjoyable read for any person interested in Texas history...something in which every Texan should be interested.	2001-06-17
US	51065911	R2QNIBP0SUADS9	1565121023	349024008	My Old Man and the Sea: A Father and Son Sail Around Cape Horn	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Special Father and Son Relationship Set on the Ocean	This book is based upon journals kept by a father and son during their sailing voyage around Cape Horn.  They really do a great job of integrating each person's observations as they sail down from New England to Panama, through the canal, then South and eventually around the Cape.  Both writers share a great sense of humor including letters, the daily ship's log, and games they played to pass the many hours of sailing such a small craft that far. There are some esoteric points that are made that wouldn't make a lot of sense to anyone but a sailing enthusiast but overall the book does a nice job of providing laymen's definitions of such things as how to do celestial navigation.  I really enjoyed their description of places they visited like Galapagos Easter Island, and the Horn.  Maps are provided at the beginning of each portion of their journey so the reader gets a good idea of where and what to expect.  If you enjoy sailing you'll especially enjoy this father and son accomplishment.	2001-06-17
US	51065911	R2F1Q852YN4QKB	0517141302	250860454	Lines West	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Documents the Challenges of Building Across US Northern Tier	A detailed account of the challenges building and operating a railroad across the far northern tier of the U.S. from St Paul, Minnesota to Tacoma, Washington.  The author, Charles Wood, documents the vision of James J. Hill (The empire builder) first with the St Paul &amp; Pacific Railroad and then as it evolved into the Great Northern.  <br />As a small child, the Station Agent in my home town used to give me railroad pencils that she would get from representatives that would pass through Glendale, OR.  I was always fascinated with the symbol of the Great Northern which was a Mountain Goat standing on a peak.  When you finish this book you'll see why that was their symbol.  This is one of the many \\"picture books\\" about railroads that came from Superior Publishing in the 1950s and 1960s.  While the photos are all black and white Wood provides a great deal of detailed information with each one.  You get a lot of information about the difficulty of blasting tunnels several miles long through solid rock.  You'll learn how Hill used electricity to overcome the problems with heat from the steam engines in the long Cascade tunnel.  There's also a number of photos of the inside of Pullman passenger cars like the kind that was my home until 18 years old.<br />This is one of those books that continue to go up in price each year so if you can get one you'll find it very informative about a line long since gone but also will make a good investment in years to come.	2001-02-23
US	51065911	R27DVQM7OJQBD3	0929398149	960740347	Bounty of Texas (Publications of the Texas Folklore Society)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Part of Series that belongs on Every True Texan's Bookshelf	Nowhere can you gain a better understanding of the real Texas than in the recurring publications of the Texas Folklore Society.  These short works were compiled by Francis Edward Abernethy from the TFS holdings and share with the reader the wide diversity of culture in that great State.  From stories about hunting in the Big Bend area to catching gar on the rivers of East Texas there's a true Bounty for everyone.  J. Frank Dobie figures in several of the stories (as well he should...see my other reviews including \\"Longhorns\\") authoring one about the curiosity of deer.  You also learn about Dobie's interest in collecting various types of grass seed to capture some that have since disappeared from the landscape.  Another story shares the finer points of still making and yet another shares the lexicon of prisoners at Huntsville.<br />But of all the stories the only place I keep marked in the book is about the old minister in  Chillicothe who had married folks for years.  An always with notes of the bride and grooms name.  But this one time was his nemesis:<br />Brother Patrick began a halting homily on the sacredness of marriage, hoping the names would come to him.  He knew the bride was from the Beach family but couldn't recall her first name and he couldn't remember the grooms name at all.  So he figures a way to ask them from the alter.  Turning to the groom, he asked, \\"In what name do you come to be married?\\"  The groom was dumbfounded for he didn't recall this being part of the ceremony.  Finally he says, \\"in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.\\"  To which Brother Patrick says, \\"What does your mother call you?\\"  <br />\\"Puffen,\\" said the groom. <br />\\"Puffen,\\"  Brother Patrick said, \\"do you take -\\" The bride's first name still hadn't come to him.  \\"Do you take this Beach to be your wife?\\"<br />If you can find it, you'll love this great book about the real Texas.	2001-02-22
US	51065911	R1CMAZ35KZFRUE	0451200446	707714531	Wreck of the Medusa: The Tragic Story of the Death Raft	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The &quot;Titanic&quot; Event of the Early 19th Century	This book does a wonderful job of documenting a tragic event that captured nearly everyone's attention in the early part of the 19th Century.  Alexander McKee shows the role that French politics played in putting incompetent and self-serving military officers in charge of an operation that ended with a grisly outcome.  After running their vessel aground off the coast of West Africa they discover that they have insufficient boats so a 65x25 foot raft is constructed for 150 folks so they might be towed to shore.  But when it is discovered that the raft is a couple of feet below water when loaded it slows the other boats and is therefore set adrift.  Of the 150 only 15 survive and those by eating human flesh.  <br />The first half of the book involves the events surrounding the wreck while the second half is devoted to a comparison and contrast of several other similar stories of challenge where depends on the competent leadership and the consumption of human flesh. <br />As a result of this tragedy a French painter named Theodore Gericault painted \\"The Wreck of the Medusa\\" which now hangs in the Louvre.  McKee does an excellent job of sharing the events surrounding the creation of that painting and the book has several sketches of the work prior to completion. <br />My disappointment was in knowing how the author knew so much about this tragedy until half way through the book.  Then you learn that there was a number of books written by the survivors and also written court proceedings available.<br />When you start it you'll have a hard time putting it down.	2001-02-21
US	51065911	RPFG7H4IAV4G0	0931933218	162182960	Green Beach	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Where what you know could get you killed!	\\"If I tell you, I'll have to kill you,\\" is a comment sometimes heard during discussion of highly classified information.  There are several cases where military personnel chose not to be taken alive because of the secrets that they knew.  One is US Navy Captain John Cromwell that chose to go down with the submarine rather than be taken alive because of his knowledge about the US code-breaking capability.  \\"Green Beach\\" is a story about an RAF non-commissioned officer that had substantial knowledge about RADAR, was physically conditioned and therefore was selected to participate in the raid on Dieppe, France in 1942.  Someone with his knowledge was required because if they got inside the facility he needed to know what accomplishments the Germans had made in this area.  A team was assigned to protect him so that he might get into the RADAR facility but if he was wounded, their secondary job was to ensure he was not taken alive.<br />This book does an excellent job of tracing the planning and execution that went into this raid on German facilities on the French coast.  Several thousand soldiers participated in the attack with the bulk of them Canadian servicemen.  A small number of US Army Rangers and British also participated in preparation for what would eventually be D-Day at Normandy.<br />The author, James Leasor, captures the accomplishments of these brave men recounting both those that succeeded and those that were killed and left behind.  Based upon my early military experience with RADAR it was enjoyable to learn the history of this discipline in an operational setting.  The only distraction that I noted was the repeated reference to the team's responsibility to kill a fellow serviceman rather than let him be taken alive.  After a few times it failed to add anything to the story.<br />Dieppe is a very important event in the history of the Canadian military and \\"Green Beach\\" does an exceptional job of  documenting their bravery and sacrifice.	2001-02-08
US	51065911	R2XR611E5DTNWK	0451195086	417690571	Sog: The Secret Wars of America's Commandos in Vietnam	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Fitting Salute For America's Bravest	The late USAF General Bob Russ, Commander of TAC and ACC used to say there are two kinds of class...First Class and No Class!  Everything involved with SOG (and this book) is first class.  While John Plaster's account of these very brave men is anecdotal it also documents their activities in a level of detail you seldom see.  Plaster spares no trouble in providing the names of each and every individual associated with each activity.  Which results in a remembrance or memorial for many young soldiers that will never get to see a Super Bowl or smell the flowers in the Spring.  The book does a wonderful job of providing a complete story around each and every Medal of Honor that was awarded to the numerous SOG recipients.  <br />While there are numerous outcomes in the book that will \\"break your heart\\" the saddest for me was the failure of the USAF to support Cavaiani at Outpost Hickory with air support that was available and en-route when ordered home.  To all the senior leadership in this country (both civilian and military) with either self-serving or political agendas that resulted in less that 100% support for these brave men throughout all their endeavors...\\"May you burn in hell\\".<br />I drank with several of the men mentioned in this book on Hon Tre Island, RVN when the SF used it as an initial in-country training site.  They used the barracks and facilities that were vacant after the HAWKs went home.  I saluted them then and I continue to have nothing but respect for their deeds and bravery.  Now you can sit at home in a comfortable chair and read about these deeds thanks to the efforts of John Plaster.<br />Essential reading for anyone interested in learning about those that went over the fence.	2001-02-05
US	51065911	R1VY7V6ALOJFQ7	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Crucial Beginning Of Air Assault in Vietnam	General Moore's leadership style combined with Joe Galloway's journalist attention to detail results in a book that's on a level by itself.  This has got to be the book which all other ground combat books about Vietnam is measured. <br />In the mid-70s I was on temporary duty at Readiness Command (REDCOM) at MacDill AFB, FL.  With me was a Special Forces NCO that told a chilling tale.  As a young man he'd been on a radio in Vietnam listening to the events unfold at LZ Albany.  Toward the end of the engagement and before re-enforcements arrived the North Vietnamese Army soldiers were walking through the elephant grass executing American soldiers.  At the time the location meant nothing to me but imagine my surprise a few years ago when I picked up \\"We Were Soldiers Once...and Young\\" and discovered that was the engagement to which he referred.<br />Of all the events that are described in detail the one that will stay with me always involves the soldiers that have survived and been brought out of LZ X-ray to Camp Holloway.  They're expecting a break for a few days but before the evening is over they're called to go back in and help their fellow comrades that are under fire at Albany.  As they lined up and walk past the permanent party hooches to the waiting choppers the fence was lined with Rear Echelon Fellows who couldn't believe their eyes to see these same guys being put back into the fight.  I'll bet you anything that everyone of those gallant troops will never forget that walk to the choppers.<br />On a technical level you'll gain a great understanding about the foundation of Air Assault in Vietnam as well as give you much more information than the hour program about the 1st Cav and the Battle of Ira Drang which appears from time-to-time on cable television.	2001-01-23
US	51065911	R241B8VRRDWREK	0811717003	989898433	Street Without Joy (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	If Only Our Leader's Had Read It!	In the last few years there's been many books about the ground war in Vietnam.  The grandfather of such authors has to be Bernard Fall with this book and also \\"Hell In a Very Small Place\\".  \\"Street Without Joy\\" does get a little slow in places but is well worth capturing Fall's vision of what was and also what might have been.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in learning the particulars of our early involvement in SEA.  Just think of the young boys that could have grown old pursing life, liberty and happiness if just a few decision-makers would have read this book and heeded the caution.<br />If you're going to read both of these books, I'd suggest \\"Hell In A Very Small Place\\" first simply because of the chronology.<br />A must for anyone wanting to learn about the ground war in Vietnam.	2001-01-23
US	51065911	R21MJ9F3WK94KJ	006097771X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	4	4	N	N	On The Ragged Edge of U.S. Intelligence Collection	My copy of this book has been read by four of my co-workers in my office.  If you're interested in how things got done to help keep us (the US) in the game against the Soviets during the Cold War this is a terrific book to read.  On a par with The Puzzle Palace from a couple of decades back.  While the cloak and dagger exploits of these very brave men are fascinating the high point for me was the brain storming research technique (Monte Carlo Analysis) used by some very smart folks to find the lost Soviet sub and also to find the lost nuclear bomb from the B-52 crash off of Spain during the 1960s.<br />This book will hold your interest from the beginning to the end.  Every one of my co-workers came back and said it was one of the best books they'd read in a long time.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-01-18
US	51065911	RWDEK3AS6TLMB	0785811303	413618233	The Longhorns	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A History of Longhorn Cattle at the Grass Roots	J. Frank Dobie spent his life documenting the grassroots history of Texas and this book is probably his finest examples.  I've read all of his books and found this one to be the most informative.  There's also a wonderful collection of photographs of many of the different variations of horn and hide at the rear of this book.  You'll learn how the cattle came north from Mexico in the beginning and how early settlers rooted them out of the thickets of East Texas to start their herds.  You'll learn about many of the principal cattlemen of early Texas including their drives north to the Kansas railhead. <br />If you enjoy Texas history you'll really enjoy this book.	2001-01-10
US	51065911	R3RHL2NM6SCPXQ	0738811599	888828574	Beyond Sundown	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Mix of Truth &amp; Fiction	Ingram Philips mixes a healthy amount of fiction with some historical facts to build this account of the fictional Parsons family during the decade before the War Between The States and throughout that conflict.  Philips uses a vivid imagination to move the reader through a series of the major events of the War.  While the history oriented reader may find the layout somewhat aggravating, it serves as a useful vehicle for &quot;tweaking&quot; ones interest in those individuals that might then do additional research.<br />One can see that Philips, as a retired military officer, focused much of his research on the day-to-day events of the common soldier.  One of the more intriguing threads of the book involves the friendship between the main character, John Parsons, and an Indian named Shields.  Shields follows Parsons throughout their trials and tribulations and serves as an interesting offset to a more traditional story.<br />An interesting addition is a listing at the end of which characters are based upon real people of history and those that are fictional characters.	2001-01-07
US	51065911	R361PK8R57C0TQ	083230476X	472446600	Big Sam	Books	4	2	2	N	N	There Will Never Be Another Big Sam!	There's probably only a handful of books available that talk about early logging in the Pacific Northwest.  This is one of them.  Sam Churchill is referring to his dad, Big Sam, in the title.  The area is inland a short distance from Astoria in Northwest Oregon.  It talks about the reality of opening that area to logging and then follows the transition of methods and means into more modern times.  There's a nice number of photos with great material.  Unfortunately there's two or three to a page and sometimes it's hard to really enjoy the full composition.<br />In addition to the stories about how logging was done in those times there's a number of great family stories that are only found in books such as these.  By the time you finish you'll feel the dampness in the air as you drive through the back country of the Coast Slope.	2001-01-06
US	51065911	R1IM78RGUFFSCF	0517150131	98811748	Ambrose Bierce's Civil War	Books	4	16	16	N	N	The Graphic Violence of War With Twists At The End	I read this book when I was doing research about one of the taboos of warfare.  That was the discussion of the Coup De Grace of a fellow soldier.  During my research I found that virtually no one had ever written (either in books or screenplays) about this with the exception of Bierce.  It is an interesting paradox to ask yourself whether you would have the capability to put a friend out of their misery rather than let them suffer if you knew that help was not available.  In fact, Bierce's short story is entitled, &quot;The Coup De Grace&quot;.  You'll find it and 27 others in this volume.  The most famous is, &quot;An Occurrence At Owl Creek&quot;.  A story that was made into a short film and was the Short Subject winner of the Cannes Film Festival in 1962, and earned an Academy Award in 1964 as best Foreign Film.<br />All of the stories you find in this book are told with the tight, economical style of Bierce and many have an O'Henry or Sterling twist at the end.  They are told in the frank and bloody prose that Bierce witnessed (and physically experienced) first hand as an Officer in the Union Army.  As one reads these stories you can clearly see the basis for Bierce's caustic and acidulous writing style that stayed with him throughout his life including as a columnist for William Randolph Hearst at the San Francisco Examiner and until he walked away into the Mexican desert in 1913.  His demise is the source of great conjecture (as he would have wanted it) but that is for other books about the man and his writing.	2000-12-30
US	51065911	R29WRRAUVJXCGW	0915713144	397159538	The Southern Pacific in Oregon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hundreds or photos and stories about the SP in Oregon	I bought this book because I was raised in a Pullman passenger car sitting on the ground next to the Southern Pacific line in Southern Oregon.  The book is a wonderful compilation of photos from all eras over all of the lines in Oregon.  I was most interested in the Siskiyou line but the authors do an equally competent job covering the Cascade or Main line west to San Francisco (SF), the Coast line and all the branches around Portland.  For you non-SP fans, trains going away from SF are headed East regardless of the direction and those headed toward SF are headed West.  One of the best things I like about this book is the maps.  There are strip maps of the entire SP system in Oregon showing terrain and all of the siding and communities of today and years long gone past and the mileposts.  Mileage markers are also figured from San Francisco...SP headquarters on Market Street to be exact.  The words that accompany the many photos provide a history of each segment of the line, some of the communities along the way as well as interesting stories the authors have acquired.  One of the authors, Tom Dill, was a fireman-engineer for 18 years on the SP and Ed Austin's uncle worked for the company too.  Over the years they took many great photos and you'll see them all in this book.<br />So you always wanted to be an engineer on one of those big locomotives climbing up out of Eugene into the Cascades and headed toward Klamath Falls.  Here's a quote from the book:<br />Even with three AC's handling a train, speeds between Oakridge and Cascade Summit seldom exceeded twenty miles per hour and often dropped to ten miles per hour.  Thus, heat and smoke in the longer tunnels on the Cascade line presented a significant problem for train crews...On one trip fireman Herb Abarr, using a thermometer in the cab of the second helper locomotive, measured a temperature of 176 degrees in tunnel No. 7.<br />There is a second book that accompanies this one and it is called, &quot;The SouthernPacific in Oregon - Pictorial&quot;.  It is made up of many of the extra photos that wouldn't fit in the first book.  If you can find it you'll also be pleased with the coverage of the line but be warned that both books are hard to find.  If you can get them, however, you'll be very pleased with your purchase.  I know one thing.  You're not getting my copies.	2000-12-29
US	51065911	R3KEBZ0JGGVIW3	0803251831	230210320	Law West of Fort Smith: A History of Frontier Justice in Indian Territory 1834-1896	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Parker....The Right Man at The Right Time and Place	I bought this book at he Ft Smith Court House museum because my Great Grandfather rode for Parker.  I was expecting information about the bad deeds of many of the desperados but I was pleasantly surprised to find additionally a comprehensive treatment of the legal aspects of Parker's tenure.  As Glenn Shirley effectively documents, the Judge Parker known and respected by the citizens of Arkansas and the Indian Nations is a far cry from the one created by the Eastern press and the monied interests (including Congressmen) of the East.  This book will provide the reader with a very balanced approach to what Parker saw as the rights of the victim and community with the rights of the accused.  And as Shirley clearly points out Parker may have gone too far sometimes but early on extreme measures were needed.<br />The body of the book covers many of the best known cases to be covered in Parker's court but also provides appendices on each and every person that Parker sentenced to hang (including those that were commuted, pardoned, reversed and acquitted).  Byron Dobbs, a second generation lawyer that practiced law in Ft Smith for 40 years, provided a lawyer's appraisal of the Parker Court a number of years ago for the \\"Ft Smith Historical Journal\\".  He wrote:<br />Parker was given the near impossible task of providing justice between the white men and the Indian.  The disgrace arose out of the failure of the U.S. and Congress to appropriately prevent intrusion upon the Indian land and in permitting such carnage as to result in the great number of murder trails and then Parker was condemned in the halls of Congress for imposing the only penalty authorized by Congress.  Parker's accomplishments stand as a monument to law and order achieved under the most trying circumstances.<br />Shirley's book simply and effectively documents these accomplishments.	2000-12-28
US	51065911	R2NX7FTEGZKNA1	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ignorance and Bad Luck....A Dangerous Combination	Throughout life there are times when a combination of stupidity and bad luck just align against you....sometimes it's not fatal but other times it is.  Christopher McCandless appears to have been on a personal search for something which he couldn't find in main stream society.  John Krakauer does a good job of documenting that search from his life in the East, to Western farms where McCandless worked as a labor, to his time at Slab City near Yuma.  (After reading the book I was passing through Yuma and tried to find this city but never did)  It's obvious that Chris was unprepared for the environment of the far north and he seems to have been fully aware of that lack of preparation by hauling books like \\"War and Peace\\" into the wilds rather than life sustaining supplies.  But to not be cognizant of the potential for the environment to change around you over time is simply ignorant.  In the case of this well written book which documents the demise of Chris, it was fatal.  This book was written before \\"Into Thin Air\\" but you can still see John Krakauer's early training as a journalist starting to come through.  The book is easy to read and  keeps your attention regardless of the fact that you know how it ends.	2000-12-28
US	51065911	R2FI2RU0SIKSE5	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	5	3	4	N	N	So Many Miles, So Little Time	When we're talking about a major undertaking such as building the Nation's transcontinental railroad one of the hardest challenges to capture in print is the sequencing of events.  Ambrose does a better than respectable job in this regard.  Many people have had a hard time grasping that more was going on in this country during the Civil War than just the Civil War.  This project is a perfect example.  Stephen Ambrose does a nice job of  tying the events as they unfolded on the railroad to the overall events of the Nation.   He also does a nice job of giving the rightful due to Theodore Judah.  Judah was the engineer and visionary that firmly believed that a railroad could be built across the Sierra Nevada's but never lived long enough to see that occur.  Unfortunately that vision did not extend to the treachery that he would experience among his fellow businessmen (both the Central Pacific and Union Pacific) in converting the Nation's treasures to their personal wellbeing.  I also enjoyed learning about the role Brigham Young and his Mormon follows played in the effort.<br />As with all of Ambrose's books there are sufficient anecdotes mixed in to the historical facts to keep the readers attention.  While there are other books which address the facts of the railroads construction none do it with the smooth flow of this book.	2000-12-27
US	51065911	R10ETCYQ6DF430	096776100X	305911027	Ride for the Brand	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Essential For Every Cowboy Poetry Collection	Would a cowboy give up his life to save his horse?  What happens to a cowpuncher's things when he dies?  Is there still a work ethic that keeps one loyal to their employer?  Those are just a few of the questions and answers you find in Red Steagall's book, \\"Ride For the Brand\\".  Red is the cowboy poet of Texas that leaves you with a warm place in your heart and a feeling that it's great to be an American but especially one from West Texas.  Most of the poems in \\"Ride For the Brand\\" are also available on Red's CDs and Tapes but if you want to know the exact words in the songs this book is essential.  <br />There's a wide assortment of poems including those about faith and values but my favorite is, \\"The Wagon Tongue\\".  It wasn't until reading this poem that I learned that on early cattle drives north to the railheads the cook would always point the cook wagon tongue toward the North Star in the evening so the men would know which way to start in the morning.  That's because the North Star and the Sun were the only means of telling directions on the flat prairies of Texas. <br />This is one of my treasured books and if you believe in a life of faith, value, and hard work ethic I think it will become one of yours.	2000-12-26
US	51065911	R19VF6W7R3W02Q	0870743821	968928828	Diddy Waw Diddy: Passage of an American Son (Southwest Life and Letters)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Special Place in Texas History	Billy Porterfield either had the good sense to take great notes growing up or has a fantastic memory.  Regardless, the result is a fascinating account of growing up in the oil patch of West Texas.  Billy and his family moved twenty two times with his dad chasing those wild cat wilds of the past.  Most of their travels were in a big Hudson Terraplane and whenever anyone asked where they were headed the standard reply was &quot;Diddy Waw Diddy&quot;.  Which a substitute word for whatever one wanted it to be...similar to Seinfeld's now famous yada, yada, yada.<br />This book is filled with belly laughs that will keep you turning the pages for more but the best for me was the story about the woman who left her husband until he built her a dream home.  After a few months it's finished and she returns to the find beautiful three story home awaiting her.  It wasn't until she walked into the front door did she realize that it was only 12 feet wide and the back was a drive-in movie screen.<br />This book is out of print but if you can run across a copy you'll find a very amusing look at the authentic life of families involved with helping to lubricate this country's industry toward the end of the Great Depression.	2000-12-25
US	51065911	R38YIMOLDYDZPS	0891416854	633214538	Digital War: A View from the Front Lines	Books	3	2	3	N	N	So Many Avenues...So Little Time	The fleeting nature of the evolving battlefield makes this book a benchmark to electronics and weapons...but for only a short period of time.  One of the most fascinating things one can do with this book is speculate &quot;what ifs&quot; of past conflicts if fighting forces possessed the magnitude of perfect intelligence postulated for the future.  Fact is that a number of battles which U.S. forces won against numerically superior forces might have turned out differently if personnel would have had near perfect intelligence.<br />The book is a series of essays that Captain Bateman compiled by corresponding with fellow officers.  Some of the essays are right on target for now and the future while others will probably never come to fruition for a vary of reasons. As pointed out in the book, the full potential of digitization on the battlefield will fall far short until the completion of a paradigm shift at ALL levels of leadership.  While the subject is addressed, more could have been written about the dangers of decision-makers &quot;drowning in data while thirsting for knowledge&quot;.	2000-12-23
US	51065911	R32UL5MP3D90VE	0140176675	919373867	Last Go Round: A Real Western	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Caution History is Not Always As It Seems	This Ken Kesey story is a mix of truth and fiction.  Located in Pendleton, OR in 1911 at the original rodeo or Round Up as it is still called.  The main characters are Jonathan Lee Spain, an Indian named Jackson Sundown and a black man named George Fletcher.  It is a tightly focused story of a few days in their lives at Pendleton along with a sub plot involving Buffalo Bill Cody and a very strange wrestler named Frank Gotch.  The book contains photos from those early days so you know that some of these fellows really lived including on of Spain that continued to rodeo even after he lost a hand in a roping accident.<br />This one is great fun and uses the mortar of fabrication to hold the rocks of truth in place.  It's a quick and easy read and does offer a glimpse of yesterday but be warned it has neither the depth or polish of Kesey's earlier works such as &quot;Sometimes a Great Notion&quot; or &quot;One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest&quot;.	2000-12-23
US	51065911	R164OP41ZFWNVM	1572490063	421439594	Leader of the Charge: A Biography of General George E. Pickett, C.S.A	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Irony Of Striving For Greatest	Traces George Pickett's life from military school to Military Academy and on to his career in first the Union Army and then Confederate.  As did many of Lee's Generals, Pickett saw service in Mexico with Scott and also tours in the Far West.  Pickett's first assignment in the Confederate Army was to the Northern Neck of Virginia where his forces were mostly militia.  He repeatedly complained that these forces and portion of Virginia failed to rally to the high standards of support for the Confederacy that he expected.  When a more senior officer arrived in the area Pickett responsibilities were relegated to an even lesser position.  Clearly this man was not a rising star but more of a place holder.  In fact throughout his career he was constantly trying to position himself for higher visibility.<br />The author makes a careful analysis of Pickett's actions at Gettysburg and concludes that while they were nether heroic nor cowardly they were in keeping with the actions expected of someone in his position.<br />After the war Pickett had a difficult time &quot;fitting in&quot; and after several pursuits became a life insurance salesman in Richmond.  Perhaps a testimonial to what he is best known for...leading (as directed) thousands of men to their slaughter.<br />I found this book to be well written and documented but a little disjointed at times.	2000-12-23
US	51065911	R1EQ4SNOBU1OU6	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Realities, Myths, and the Conflicts of Honor	A superbly written and tightly focused blend of compassion and raw violence of the battlefield involving six individuals that came together in a moment in time to participate in the greatest photo ever taken.  Shows that the survivors of earlier wars share the same ghosts and nightmares as the more publicized Vietnam Veterans.  They just coped with them differently or often simply ignored them until it didn't matter.  Three of the six were lost before the battle was over and of the three that returned only one (the Navy Corpsman and authors father) was able to build a relatively normal life.  <br />The author does an excellent job of letting the reader share the perception of the survivors themselves.  That they were no more or less the hero than the thousands of other Marines and Navy Corpsmen that simply \\"did what was expected\\" or as Admiral Nimitz shared after the battle and is quoted on the memorial at Arlington...UNCOMMON VALOR WAS A COMMON VIRTUE.<br />Caution:  If you're uncomfortable with reading about the realities of battlefield violence you'll have a hard time with this one.	2000-12-19
US	51065911	R1L4QP9CAWWN4S	0786885416	783786804	The Hungry Ocean: A Swordboat Captain's Journey	Books	4	4	7	N	N	You'll Feel the Salt Spray in Your Face!	The details of one specific swordfishing trip nearly 1,000 miles to the Grand Banks by the Hannah Boden.  The Hannah Boden was the sister ship to the Andrea Gail from \\"The Perfect Storm\\".  In fact the author, Linda Greenlaw was skippering the Hanna Boden 600 miles east of the Andrea Gail when the Storm hit and upon returning past Sable Island recovered 55 gallon barrels with AG on the side stenciled on the side.  <br />If you're interested in how people and things work and specifically commercial fishing for swordfish you'll enjoy this book very much.  Greenlaw was schooled as a writer but chose for a period the rugged life of a fishing captain.  She has the eye and attention to detail necessary find the fish while keeping the crew safe and to make you feel like you are there working nearly around the clock until your actions are more like a zombie than human.  This book is similar in many ways to \\"Working on the Edge\\".  One being about finding and harvesting swordfish and the other about finding and harvesting Alaskan King Crabs.  Both lines of work offered the potential for very high rewards but also very long hours, dangerous, and exhausting work.	2000-12-18
US	51065911	R25UC9TZXX9UKR	0060194626	275282410	The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Documentation of a Tragedy but much much more.	This is one of those books as the pages dwindle away your disappointment rises as you realize that soon it will be over. As I started this book I thought it was going to be a patchwork of SCUBA diving stories.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  I soon realized that it was a skillfully woven account of the lives of several divers including Chris and Chrissy Rouse.  While you'll get much more out of this book if you've experienced diving it is not necessary (he puts everything to layman's terms) to still have you hanging on the edge of your seat.  Bernie Chowdhury's attention to detail which allowed him dive to the outer edge of the envelope and survive some close calls is the same asset that makes this book so enjoyable.  While the title suggests it is simply about the loss of Chris and Chrissy Rouse on the U-Who, it is much more.  The U-Who was the unnamed U-boat off the coast of New Jersey that John Chatterton and others spent 6 years identifying.  There's substantial information here about the evolution of cave diving and the personalities and events that pioneered the first dives to the \\"Andrea Doria\\".<br />Many dive stories seem to be ego oriented reports of exaggeration.  Not this one.  The author's unassuming approach takes full responsibility for the real close call which nearly cost him his life. The author shares with the reader not only what happened but what he felt on many of these long dives.  For example some of the thoughts that pass through your mind as you hang suspended for hours at a time during decompression following a deep dive.  I dove with the Maricopa County Sheriff's Divers Posse for 8 years in the early 1970s mostly in the pitch black lakes of Arizona and found myself reliving those dives but you don't have to have ever had a wetsuit on to find yourself totally immersed in this fine account of tragedies and triumph in sport diving.<br />A must read for any diver!	2000-12-13
US	51065911	R1JIMSNOJNQWMC	0395827590	727693062	The Chief: The Life of William Randolph Hearst	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The dichotomy of a visionary	\\"The Chief\\" a wonderful and well balanced portrayal of the rise and fall of one of the past centuries greats.  The book does an excellent job of clearly documenting the source of W.R.'s wealth and his manner of spending it.  For nearly 5 decades he ruled his publishing empire with an iron hand when necessary and a velvet glove other times.  This book documents the dichotomy of preaching family and morals in his newspapers while openly keeping a mistress (the movie star, Marion Davies) for many years.  On the one hand it shows his vision as the initial advocate for the 40 hour work week in both private and public service and on the other his total naivete on the actions of Mussolini and Hitler.  For example, he thought he'd altered Hitler's views (in both print and during face-to-face meetings) toward the Jews in the 1930s.  The author, David Nasaw, was given access to boxes and boxes of correspondence between W.R. and everyone inside and outside his circle.  Correspondence which was very blunt by even today's standards.  This goes a long ways in providing a clear and documented trail of W.R.'s successes and failures in both his private and public life.  For example, he writes to his oldest son George when he was 36, \\"Somebody had to be in charge of the station.  You have not yet demonstrated the ability to run a station... Just remember, George, you have never demonstrated anything in you life yet.  You have not even demonstrated a willingness to work.\\"  <br />Sadly, his power base was substantially altered by near rabid attacks on the far left during the 1930s, the depression, and the graduated income tax structure in this country.  In other words he failed to anticipate nor recognize the culminating points through life's journey and as a result suffered accordingly.  In general this book is well worth the read if you can get through the 600 pages.	2000-12-05
US	51065911	R3SX2FB6CW9UKE	1885221282	870760839	Down the Hill: A True Story of Early Logging in the Pacific Northwest	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Logging From the Ground Up	Here's an excellent book about logging and lumbering in the greater Tacoma, WA area.  It traces the arrival of those hardy men and women that carved a living out of this wild and untamed area.  The author was  personally involved as a child and spent a number of his early years in a  variety of jobs from the ground up.  It is also an excellent testament to  the vision of some of those early lumbering businesses that started tree  farms and re-forested large tracks of land long before it was a government  requirement.  If you're interested in the techniques of logging with the  various apparatus or riggings and what each is called in the woods, this is  the books for you.  One thing you'll learn for sure is that no  self-respecting logger would ever call himself a &quot;lumberjack&quot; and  the only place you'd hear someone call &quot;timber&quot; as a tree falls  is in the movies.	2000-03-13
US	51065911	RI7GNG2Z5U9X9	0961937904	165617945	Knights of the Whip: Stagecoach Days in Oregon	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Glory Days of Stagecoaching between CA and OR	Here's the most definitive work to date concerning the Stagecoaches that moved passengers and treasure between Yreka, CA and Eugene City, OR(1860s-1890s).  The book lists the location and history of the stage  stops along the &quot;Big Road&quot; which generations later would be known  as Interstate 5.  In addition information about the individual drivers and  their experiences are presented in a clear and factual manner.  No tall  tales here...only carefully researched facts are presented.  An excellent  source for learning about transportation throughout Southern Oregon before  the arrival of the Iron Horse.	2000-02-15
