US	51063473	R3CHJXEZDJFJ5L	006058047X	586443783	True Story: Murder, Memoir, Mea Culpa	Books	5	80	85	N	Y	The Journalist and the Killer: Lives Strangely Linked	This is a compelling and disturbing book. Author Michael Finkel tells both his own story and that of Christian Longo, who was convicted of killing his wife and three children in Newport, Oregon in December 2001. Their lives became intertwined when Longo fled to Mexico following the killings. There, he adopted the identity of a journalist whose work he had read and admired: Michael Finkel. Then came a twist of fate no screenwriter could get away with. As Longo was being escorted back to the U.S. for trial following his arrest, the New York Times Magazine announced it was dropping the real Finkel as a regular contributor because he had created a composite character for one of his stories.<br /><br />(Disclaimer: I have a strong personal interest in the Longo case. I covered the killings, his arrest and trial as a radio news reporter; my apartment is a two-minute walk from the condominium where the killings took place. As the trial unfolded, we in the press were aware that Longo was in regular contact with Finkel, though he had turned down all other requests for interviews.)<br /><br />Finkel wrote a letter to Longo in jail, explaining that he wanted to know why he had assumed his identity. This led to weekly hour-long telephone conversations between the two men and a regular correspondence that stretched to more than a thousand pages on Longo's part. Although both men pledged complete honesty to each other, neither kept that vow. Finkel came to realize that each was using the other. Seeing some of his own worst qualities magnified in Longo, Finkel was looking for a form of personal and professional redemption. Longo, meanwhile, was using Finkel as a sounding board for the persona and story he would present to the jury.<br /><br />In the beginning, Finkel went out of his way to give Longo the benefit of the doubt, despite strong evidence linking him to the killings. In the end, when Longo stood exposed for the despicable liar that he was, Finkel found himself unable to make sense of a supremely senseless act. If there's any frustration for the reader--at least this reader--it's the discovery that there are no answers in these pages to help make any better sense of this tragedy.<br /><br />Longo may be beyond redemption, but Finkel is not. He's an obviously talented writer who has brought to life a tragic event in all its awful detail.-William C. Hallly senseless act. If there's any frustration for the reader--at least this reader--it's the discovery that there are no answers in these pages to help make any better sense of this tragedy.    Longo may be beyond redemption, but Finkel is not. He's an obviously talented writer who has brought to life a tragic event in all its awful detail.-William C. Hall	2005-06-07
US	51063473	R3VWFORMV4JNOC	1401352081	287930463	Big Russ and Me, Father and Son: Lessons of Life	Books	4	37	44	N	N	A Story About One Father And Son--And All Fathers And Sons	This is a heartwarming, uplifting book. Tim Russert's &quot;Big Russ &amp; Me&quot; encompasses both his own life story and the story of his father (&quot;Big Russ.&quot;) The senior Russert grew up in a working class family in South Buffalo, New York and went off to play his part in World War II as a member of the Army Air Force. Big Russ came home after the war, married, raised four children and worked two jobs for thirty years without complaint. In the way he's lived his life and the lessons he's taught his son, he's been an exemplar of the values Americans have treasured: honesty, hard work, loyalty, self-discipline.<br />The author also spins a warmly entertaining chronicle of his youth, where the adults in his Irish-Catholic neighborhood served as an extended family; where the parochial schools he attended did as much to shape his character as build his intellect; and where, in the presidential campaign of John F. Kennedy, his own passion for politics was first awakened. Russert paints a rich, loving portrait of his first boss, New York Senator Pat Moynihan; remembers some highlights of his briefer tenure on the staff of New York Governor Mario Cuomo; and paints a lively portrait of his years at NBC News, first as a behind-the-scenes executive, and since 1991, host of Meet the Press. Along the way, he married and became a father of a son, Luke.<br />Russert is a natural-born storyteller. Recalling his feelings of inadequacy when he moved from Moynihan's Buffalo office to Washington, D.C. and found himself surrounded with Ivy League graduates, the senator warmly reassured him that he could learn what the others knew, but they would never have what he did. After all, the senator pointed out, none of them had ever worked on the back of a garbage truck--something that Big Russ did his entire working life and his son did during the summers of his college years.<br />This is a very personal story about one father and one son, but it's also a universal saga of all fathers and sons. I highly recommend it.--William C. Hallathers and sons. I highly recommend it.--William C. Hall	2004-07-03
US	51063473	R7OMNQCP1GNOX	1400060303	956247749	Why Courage Matters: The Way to a Braver Life	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Meaning Of Courage, From A Man Who Knows	This extended essay on courage comes from a man who has displayed it in abundance, although not surprisingly, he seeks to deny or minimize that. Senator John McCain endured years of physical and psychological torture as a North Vietnamese prisoner of war and has gone on to display courage of a different, but no less real sort, in the political arena.<br />McCain introduces us to a variety of people who have displayed the dimensions of courage--Medal of Honor winner Sgt. Roy Benavidez, who rescued eight of his comrades in Cambodia despite suffering grievous wounds that would leave him hospitalized for months; Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, who has endured house arrest, separation from her family and other depravations in her battle to secure freedom for the peoples of Burma; civil rights leader John Lewis; a Baltimore mother who paid the ultimate price for fighting the drug dealers in her neighborhood; and others, both famous and obscure.<br />Courage is not easy to define, McCain suggests. For years he thought Hemingway's famous phrase (&quot;grace under pressure&quot;) might be as good as any, but explains how decades of thinking and experience have led him to a deeper understanding, if not a more precise definition, of this significant human quality. Courage has many dimensions, he suggests; though physical bravery is often an element of it, it's not a necessity. What does seem to be an absolute, in McCain's view, is that for an action to be truly courageous it must be grounded in firm moral beliefs. Senator McCain has given us a worthwhile, empowering book.--William C. Hall	2004-06-27
US	51063473	R1BQRK6JXUC1QS	0060579765	619282563	Hank Aaron and the Home Run That Changed America	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Quest For Baseball Immortality And Human Equality	The subtitle of this book, &quot;The Home Run That Changed America,&quot; may seem a bit lofty to those born too soon to remember this record-breaking blow. But in these pages, Tom Stanton does a fine job of interweaving the story of Henry Aaron's chase of baseball's most hallowed record with the tale of the impact of that pursuit on the larger society. Stanton's love for the game shines through in this narrative, as does his sense of shame for those elements of the public who greeted Aaron's achievement not with praise, but scorn and hatred.<br />The narrative begins in the fall of 1972 with Aaron among those  in attendance at the funeral of Jackie Robinson, the man who broke the color barrier in modern baseball. The bulk of the book tells the story of the 1973 season, which saw Aaron surpass Willie Mays for second place on the career home run list and finally fall one short of Ruth's magic total of 714. Over the course of that season Aaron had to endure the ravages of age (he was thirty-nine), a steadily intensifying media circus, and most disheartening of all, a vocal stream of hatred and abuse, most (if not all) of it racially motivated.<br />The retrospective distance of three decades makes it clear that if anyone was prepared to endure this great strain, it was Henry Aaron. While other players in bigger media markets like Mays and Mickey Mantle had captured the public's imagination with flashier performances, Aaron had been toiling away in Milwaukee and Atlanta, steadily building up career totals that would place him in the first rank of baseball's Hall of Fame...and humanity's as well.<br />Aaron came back for the 1974 season determined to put the quest for the record behind him as quickly as possible. This couldn't come without controversy, either. Atlanta officials found themselves embroiled in conflict with then-Commissioner Bowie Kuhn when they threatened to hold Aaron out of the opening three games at Cincinnati so he could achieve the record at home. Under pressure from Kuhn, the Braves played Aaron in Cincinnati, where he tied the record. Fittingly, though, he saved the blast that put him alone in the baseball universe for the home fans. Appropriately, this is where Stanton's narrative ends. There's a brief afterword on what's happened to Aaron and the other key players (including a young acolyte of Aaron's, Dusty Baker) in the decades since. But the heart of the story is in that year and a half recounted in these pages....when, as Stanton puts it, Aaron placed an exclamation mark on Jackie Robinson's great achievement and helped further erode the barriers standing in the way of full equality for all Americans.--William C. Hallder pressure from Kuhn, the Braves played Aaron in Cincinnati, where he tied the record. Fittingly, though, he saved the blast that put him alone in the baseball universe for the home fans. Appropriately, this is where Stanton's narrative ends. There's a brief afterword on what's happened to Aaron and the other key players (including a young acolyte of Aaron's, Dusty Baker) in the decades since. But the heart of the story is in that year and a half recounted in these pages....when, as Stanton puts it, Aaron placed an exclamation mark on Jackie Robinson's great achievement and helped further erode the barriers standing in the way of full equality for all Americans.--William C. Hall	2004-06-01
US	51063473	R1HQM93VJ4M3V7	1401300235	64738031	Defending Baltimore Against Enemy Attack: A Boyhood Year During World War II	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Charles Osgood's Delightful Look Back	A perfect companion for a lazy weekend afternoon. Readers of Charles Osgood's generation, I suspect, will find themselves instantly transported back to the world of 1942, and those of more recent vintage will come away with a sense of the rhythms and textures of daily life more than six decades ago. In these pages, you'll draw close to the radio with Charles and his sister Mary Ann as they enjoy their favorite radio serials; come along as they decide to run away from home together (a trip that lasted about as long as most youthful journeys of that type); join Charles and his father at the ballpark as they root, root, root for the home team (the Baltimore Orioles, then a minor league club mired in mediocrity); kneel down with young Charles as he plants his Victory Garden; and sit in the audience as the young piano student takes part in his first recital. Certainly, Charles' boyhood was shaped by his time and place; but he also captures the beguiling innocence and vast dreams that are a timeless part of childhood. Charles Osgood's gentleness, warmth and good humor shine in the pages of this delightful book.--William C. Hall	2004-05-30
US	51063473	R3K70BWEUSH3PZ	0465045820	379576673	Their Last Battle: The Fight For The National World War II Memorial	Books	4	5	6	N	N	America Pays Tribute To The Greatest Generation	This timely book arrives on the eve of the dedication of the National World War II Memorial, but can be read with interest for some time after. Anyone who absorbs this story will likely come away asking how we as a people manage to create any national memorials at all. The battles over the Vietnam and Korean War Memorials, as well as the Franklin Roosevelt Memorial, are recent history and perhaps still fresh in many memories. Mills retells these with economy and grace, and also recounts the opposition, delays and clashes over location and design that also faced the Washington Monument and the Lincoln and Jefferson memorials.<br /><br />The opening of the World War II Memorial represents the culmination of an effort that began almost two decades ago. One man, WW II vet Roger Durbin, asked his Congresswoman why there was no national memorial to those who fought and died in that momentous struggle. Winning approval in both houses of Congress took six years, and was only the first hurdle. Next came the far more complex battles to win approval for the site and design. Mills recounts all of this in great detail, from the potentially serious concerns to the more ludicrous (an assertion that construction at the memorial site might cause the nearby Washington Monument to tip over. It didn't). It finally took another act of Congress to lay the challenges to rest and get actual construction under way.<br /><br />While Mills attempts to give voice to all viewpoints about the memorial project, his sensitive examination of its artistic merits that closes the book makes it clear that he sees this as the right memorial, in the right place, and at the right time. We can wish that it might have come along sooner, so that some of the 12 million WW II vets who have left us in the six decades since V-J Day could have seen it. But at least some four million of their brothers in arms are still with us to enjoy this overdue, well-deserved tribute.--William C. Hall	2004-05-28
US	51063473	RXTI9N8J0SBXO	1932407103	599819698	Why I Love Baseball	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Engaging, Entertaining, But Not Much Depth	As an expression of Larry King's sixty-year love affair with baseball, this would have made an enjoyable magazine article. But as a book...if you strip away the Thomas Boswell article, the slightly misquoted Terry Cashman lyrics, and the other padding, you find what seems to be the result of Larry talking into a tape recorder for a couple of hours, with all the positives and negatives that implies. There's plenty of heartfelt enthusiasm here, but little reflection or depth. And as King should know, memory can be faulty, especially with the passage of time. Take his story about his childhood fight with his friend Herbie Cohen, sparked by their position-by-position debate over which team was superior in 1947--King's Dodgers or Cohen's Yankees. As King tells it, they came to blows over who was superior at second base, where he insisted the Dodger rookie Jackie Robinson had the clear edge. The problem with that? As Cohen himself notes when he's quoted elsewhere in the book, Robinson played first base during his rookie season. (Eddie Stanky still patrolled the hot corner for the Bums; Robinson moved to second the next year, after Stanky was traded to the Boston Braves.) This is an entertaining affirmation of King's true love for the sport, but could have offered the reader a lot more.--William C. Hall	2004-05-22
US	51063473	R8DQMHRRJTOL7	1582343675	636253634	Not Even Wrong: Adventures in Autism	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	The Story Of An Austic Child...And So Much More	I love Paul Collins' books, but sometimes have difficulty explaining to friends what they're all about. \\"Banvard's Folly\\" was about thirteen people whose lives were tied together by a single theme: failure. \\"Sixpence House\\" was about his family's year spent living in Hay-On-Wye, the famous Welsh \\"Town of Books.\\" But it was also about the intriguing discoveries Paul made in the millions of pages that populated the town. Now comes \\"Not Even Wrong.\\" It's the story of the Collins' discovery that their son, Morgan is autistic, and how they come to terms with that. It's also about a famous feral child, quite probably autistic, known as \\"Peter the Wild Boy.\\" And it's about other autists, and society's often misguided efforts to deal with them...<br /><br />By now, you may conclude that these are works that are hard to pigeonhole. But after finishing this third book, I see some common themes emerging in Paul's work. Most apparent, of course, is a fascination with the forgotten corridors of the past. History is mostly the story of our journey down a few well-lighted, well-traveled paths. Every now and then, however, we're lucky enough to have a Paul Collins who loves to explore the dark, musty, mostly forgotten byways. It's often here that he finds a telling anecdote or incident that helps to illuminate his world, and ours.<br /><br />The greatest characteristic of Paul's work, though, is empathy. \\"Banvard's Folly\\" easily could have been done in a tongue-in-cheek, \\"aren't these people a laugh\\" kind of style. Instead, Paul wrote with a real understanding of what motivated these individuals. Empathy is what shines through the pages of this book. Not only his love for his son, but also his caring for the autists he meets in a coffee house or only in the dusty pages of an old archive. This is a man who understands, and who cares.<br /><br />If you want to know a writer of true grace, get to know the works of Paul Collins.--William C. Hall	2004-05-22
US	51063473	R3BAXOMC16H2N5	006050529X	565936517	The Skeptic: A Life of H. L. Mencken	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Impressive Introduction To The Sage Of Baltimore	It's now been almost half a century since H.L. Mencken's death, but the debate over his life and works only seems to grow more passionate. Much of this was undoubtedly the design of the Sage of Baltimore himself. He took great care in preserving and ordering his papers, and wrote two volumes of memoir and a diary designed to be opened only long after his departure. The publication of these works--the diary, &quot;My Life as Author and Editor,&quot; and &quot;Thirty-five Years of Newspaper Work,&quot; helped spark a new round of debate about Mencken, and also helped pave the way for Terry Teachout's fine biography.<br />Teachout has mined the rich Mencken trove to produce a life story that's vivid, engaging and a pleasure to read. He confronts the Big Questions about Mencken--especially his anti-Semitism--quite directly. He celebrates the man's achievements, points out his faults and blind spots, but does so through the perspective of a life-long interest in the man. As he explains in the introduction, his eighth-grade social studies teacher gave him his first book on Mencken.<br />In a relatively brief 349 pages, Teachout manages to cover the sweep of the Mencken story...from the boy reporter who first made his mark at the end of the 19th century, to the literary critic who made such a splash in the teens and twenties (&quot;discovering&quot; the likes of Dreiser and Sinclair Lewis); to the memorable battles he waged against the &quot;booboisie,&quot; the great unknowing masses who he saw as the scourge of society; to the self-trained scholar who performed pioneering work in the field of the American language. It's a great introduction to the man for anyone who isn't familiar with him, and can be read with pleasure by those who do know him. A first-rate biography in every sense.--William C. Hall	2004-05-22
US	51063473	R1QE6SS9DSWY7Z	0312873433	663804540	One Giant Leap: Neil Armstrong's Stellar American Journey	Books	4	11	18	N	N	An Admirable Account Of A Stellar Life	This summer will mark the 35th anniversary of the first moon landing and Neil Armstrong's famous &quot;one small step.&quot; Journalist Leon Wagener does an admirable job of presenting Armstrong's life story in this first-ever biography. At first glance, it may seem surprising that three and a half-decades have passed since that historic journey without a book-length account of Armstrong's life; but given the former astronaut's well-known reticence, it's more easily understood. Wagener has mined official sources and conducted more than 100 interviews in putting together this account; but sadly, Armstrong was not among those who chose to participate. Wagener has apparently managed to track down just about everyone who has known or worked with Armstrong, including his brother, classmates, fellow soldiers and aviation pioneers, business associates and others.<br />The Neil Armstrong who emerges in these pages is a remarkably driven person, who, growing up in the Ohio of the 1930s, dared to dream the seemingly impossible dream: that he would one day set foot on the moon. Armstrong's love of flying developed at an early age and was nurtured in college, during his service in the Korean War, his work as a test pilot in the 1950s, and his enrollment as one of the second generation of astronauts in the early 1960s.<br />Wagener's account begins with the launch of Apollo 11, then follows Armstrong through the years leading up to that defining journey. He also offers a throughout account of the aftermath of the flight, when Armstrong and his fellow shipmates Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins spent months journeying the globe as good-will ambassadors for NASA and their country. Also recounted here is the ironic fact that even at the space agency's moment of ultimate triumph, its base of political support was eroding; this saw the start of the budget cuts and shifting of priorities that have left the post-Apollo NASA a shadow of the proud agency of the 1960s.<br />Although the primary focus of this work is on the decades leading up to Apollo 11, Wagener also provides a good synopsis of Armstrong's post-astronaut career, including his decade as a university professor, his work as a pitchman for Chrysler, and his sometimes uncomfortable role as a living legend.<br />Wagener's text is well-organized, and his prose is vivid and engaging, though it does become a bit purple at times. But perhaps that's to be understood, and forgiven. It was President Nixon, who, upon Apollo 11's return, proclaimed that week the greatest in history since the creation. Wagener has managed to re-create the awe and majesty of that moment, and for that, he deserves thanks.--William C. Hallmary focus of this work is on the decades leading up to Apollo 11, Wagener also provides a good synopsis of Armstrong's post-astronaut career, including his decade as a university professor, his work as a pitchman for Chrysler, and his sometimes uncomfortable role as a living legend.<br />Wagener's text is well-organized, and his prose is vivid and engaging, though it does become a bit purple at times. But perhaps that's to be understood, and forgiven. It was President Nixon, who, upon Apollo 11's return, proclaimed that week the greatest in history since the creation. Wagener has managed to re-create the awe and majesty of that moment, and for that, he deserves thanks.--William C. Hall	2004-04-11
US	51063473	R4V48MFB768QF	0300098944	536467142	A Terry Teachout Reader	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Passionately Argued, Highly Reasoned Criticism	This is criticism at its best, passionate, reasoned, engaged and engaging, grounded in strong values and beliefs. In the introduction to this volume, Terry Teachout notes that his only formal artistic training is in music. When he discusses other art forms, he says it as a &quot;more or less will-informed amateur, not a practitioner.&quot;  Still, the breadth and depth of his criticism is impressive: Teachout's interests include music, dance, literature, theatre. film, television and the visual arts.  Teachout's insights help the reader to gain new dimensions of understanding and appreciation for familiar works; and he communicates his enthusiasm for the unfamiliar in a manner that makes the reader want to seek out the works he's celebrating.<br />It's also a pleasure to read someone who leaves no doubt where their opinions lie. In his piece on mentally ill pianist David Helfgott, he doesn't shrink from describing what he sees as Helfgott's exploitation by his wife and others as a &quot;sin.&quot; His look at Norman Mailer (&quot;Forgotten But Not Gone&quot;) is as devastating an assessment of the celebrity author as was H.L. Mencken's famous obituary for William Jennings Bryan after the three-time presidential candidate dropped dead immediately following the Scopes trial. Teachout, by the way, is author of an excellent biography of Mencken. It's clear that he's learned from, and is following in the footsteps of, the best.--William C. Hall	2004-04-11
US	51063473	R3FTOIHO81VI3J	1400041058	177779236	Eugene McCarthy: The Rise and Fall of Postwar American Liberalism	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Eugene McCarthy and Liberalism: Their Rise And Fall	The Eugene McCarthy that emerges in the pages of Dominic Sandbrook's biography is a strange, unpleasant, embittered man. McCarthy's place in the liberal pantheon was forever secured by his challenge to Lyndon Johnson's renomination for the presidency in 1968. Yet Sandbrook argues persuasively that while McCarthy may have won the battle by forcing Johnson into retirement, he--and American liberalism--ultimately lost the war.<br />This book is primarily a political biography, but Sandbrook gives us the basics of McCarthy's childhood, education, and pre-political career. He emphasizes the great role  European Catholic thought played in shaping his values--an influence that was deeply felt throughout his political career. The Eugene McCarthy who was elected to the U.S. House in 1948 and moved up to the Senate a decade later was a classic postwar liberal, working to fulfill and extend the New Deal and the Fair Deal, and like his colleagues, unquestioning in his acceptance of the dogmas of the Cold War.<br />In Sandbrook's view, 1964 was a pivotal year. It represented both the high tide of postwar liberalism and the apparent end of the political road for Eugene McCarthy. His hope to be the first Catholic on a successful presidential ticket had been dashed with John F. Kennedy's election. But 1964 seemed to pose a new opportunity, as Lyndon Johnson flirted for weeks with the possibility of choosing McCarthy as his running mate The eventual selection of McCarthy's Minnesota colleague, Hubert Humphrey, appeared to spell the end to his hopes for higher office.<br />Then came the escalation of the Vietnam war and the summers of racial unrest. By 1967, the anti-war movement was casting about for a candidate with enough stature to challenge Johnson, and McCarthy offered himself, apparently at first never hoping for the top prize, but instead expecting to yield to Robert Kennedy or a chastened Johnson.<br />Sandbrook chronicles that fateful campaign, along with McCarthy's many subsequent bids for office, all of which ended in failure. He credits McCarthy's 1976 independent presidential campaign as helping pave the way for John Anderson, Ross Perot and Ralph Nader; but his bid to return to the Senate in 1982 and his presidential campaigns in 1988 and 1992 only come across as sad exercises in self-delusional nostalgia.<br />Those who wish to romanticize McCarthy's memory will be jarred by this book. But those who are willing to take a clear-eyed, unsentimental look at the man and his times will find much of value to consider regarding the postwar era of American politics.--William C. Hallubsequent bids for office, all of which ended in failure. He credits McCarthy's 1976 independent presidential campaign as helping pave the way for John Anderson, Ross Perot and Ralph Nader; but his bid to return to the Senate in 1982 and his presidential campaigns in 1988 and 1992 only come across as sad exercises in self-delusional nostalgia.<br />Those who wish to romanticize McCarthy's memory will be jarred by this book. But those who are willing to take a clear-eyed, unsentimental look at the man and his times will find much of value to consider regarding the postwar era of American politics.--William C. Hall	2004-03-23
US	51063473	R2QRVZ42H6H7MF	0767906888	839817883	The Last Good Season: Brooklyn, the Dodgers and Their Final Pennant Race Together	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Last Hurrah For A Legendary Team	The conventional story of the Brooklyn Dodgers' demise is largely familiar to most baseball fans by now. The Borough of Brooklyn saw the working-class white families who had supported the Dodgers flee en masse in the decade after World War Two, replaced by blacks, Puerto Ricans and others of different customs and values. Meanwhile, greedy Dodger owner Walter O'Malley, after making a pretense of wanting to stay in Brooklyn, quickly packed his bags for the more lucrative territory of Los Angeles. If this is the storyline you cling to, be prepared to re-think it. In &quot;The Last Good Season,&quot; Michael Shapiro provides a thoroughly-researched, gracefully-written account of the Dodgers' final pennant race and the transformation of Brooklyn.<br />&quot;I see the boys of summer in their ruin,&quot; Dylan Thomas had written in a poem that would forever become linked to the Dodgers. Roger Kahn's masterpiece was still in the future in 1956, but the great Dodger team that had dominated the National League for a decade was clearly approaching the end of the line. Age and injuries were taking their toll on men like Jackie Robinson, Roy Campanella, Carl Erskine and Pee Wee Reese. Don Drysdale and Sandy Koufax were on hand, but were still untested youngsters, not the dominant pitchers they would become on the west coast.<br />Shapiro interweaves an account of the 1956 season with the story of Brooklyn's transformation in the postwar years. Yes, many whites were fleeing to the suburbs, but Ebbets Field was still filled with fans. In fact, he suggests, it was a wonderful, if brief period when black, brown and white fans came together for a common purpose.<br />What seems abundantly clear from the archives Shapiro has mined is that far from looking for a quick exit, O'Malley was seeking every opportunity to stay (although on his terms.) All he wanted--reasonably enough, in his view--was the city's help in securing the site for a new stadium. Here, though, he came up against the most powerful man in New York--Robert Moses. It was a battle he was destined to lose.  Interestingly enough, while Shapiro refuses to condemn O'Malley as a carpetbagger, he does conclude he never should have owned a baseball team. Why? He simply didn't understand the game, or its true meaning to its fans. O'Malley was the kind of owner who could maximize the bottom line, and knew how to successfully market his product--but that's all it ever was to him. A product. As Shapiro's book makes clear, for millions of fans, the Brooklyn Dodgers represented so much more.--William C. Halle most powerful man in New York--Robert Moses. It was a battle he was destined to lose.  Interestingly enough, while Shapiro refuses to condemn O'Malley as a carpetbagger, he does conclude he never should have owned a baseball team. Why? He simply didn't understand the game, or its true meaning to its fans. O'Malley was the kind of owner who could maximize the bottom line, and knew how to successfully market his product--but that's all it ever was to him. A product. As Shapiro's book makes clear, for millions of fans, the Brooklyn Dodgers represented so much more.--William C. Hall	2004-03-22
US	51063473	R2HK9JQ4AQVOU1	081334137X	615244275	Celebrity-in-Chief: How Show Business Took Over The White House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Washington and Hollywood: Locked In A Mutual Embrace	For more than a century, presidents of the United States and Hollywood have been involved in a complicated, interdependent relationship. Sometimes the two have embraced each other with mutual affection (Franklin Roosevelt, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton) and sometimes the relationship has been more arms-length (Dwight Eisenhower, Jimmy Carter, the two George Bushes), but, as Alan Schroeder makes clear in this book, the two have developed a mutual dependence on each other.<br /><br />Anyone who has followed politics and popular culture in recent decades will recall many of the incidents chronicled between these pages, but there is also much that hasn't been well-known previously. Did you know, for instance, that the relationship between Hollywood and the White House extends as far back as Woodrow Wilson's administration? Or than Dwight Eisenhower was the first president to make regular use of a media consultant (actor Robert Montgomery)? Marilyn Monroe singing \\"Happy Birthday\\" to JFK or Nixon meeting Elvis may provide the most enduring images in our collective memories; but as Schroeder makes clear, the reality of these relationships is often more subtle and complex. Presidents look toward Hollywood for a luster they might otherwise lack; stars are drawn toward the White House in hopes of gaining a degree of substance and credibility they can't claim on their own.<br /><br />Today, some Americans still decry the relationship between politics and show business. While Schroeder offers no definitive conclusions, his work helps us to see that the two will always be interdependent; perhaps we should be instead asking how to make the partnership more beneficial to the public good and insure that there's substance behind the glitter.--William C. Hall	2004-02-29
US	51063473	R67N19WGPHXZN	038550943X	591379631	Going to Bend: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Story That Captures Life And All Its Sadness And Joy	&quot;I know these people.&quot; That was the thought that stayed at the forefront of my mind as I read Diane Hammond's remarkable first novel, &quot;Going To Bend.&quot; Sure, it's a work of fiction, set in two Oregon coast towns that don't exist, Sawyer and Hubbard. The characters are not based on real people. But I know them, nevertheless, and I'm sure you do, too.<br />The central characters are two natives of the area, Petie Coolbaugh and Rose Bundy. These women, so different in personality and temperament, are united by a bond of friendship going back to their grade school days, and by the fact that they, like so many others, are struggling to build meaningful lives in the face of poverty, illness and the thousand other challenges that make daily life a struggle for so many.<br />At the beginning of the story, Petie and Rose are brought together by a new job they will share, preparing soup on a daily basis for a new restaurant that's built its menu around soup and is called--what else? Souperior's. The cafe has been opened by Nadine and Gordon, a brother and sister who, like so many, have fled the craziness of Southern California for the peace and beauty of the Oregon coast. But like so many of the refugees, they find that it's not always possible to escape life's slings, arrows and outrageous fortune. As their stories unfold, we learn that bad--sometimes terrible--things have happened to Rosie, Petie and the other good people that inhabit these pages. But perservering, sometimes just having the courage to get out of bed and face each new day, is a key element to how they live their lives with sometimes surprising grace.<br />Along the way, we get to know the spouses (current and ex), children, and townspeople who inhabit Rose and Petie's world.  My one fear is that this book may get pigeonholed as &quot;chick lit,&quot; because the central characters are two wonderful, complex women who will quickly win your heart. This isn't just a book about women, though; it's a book about (and for) all of us who make up the human race.<br />Hammond has done a wonderful job of capturing the beauty, joy, misery, humor and pain that all comes together to make up this puzzle we call life. This book is going to stay with me for a long time. I think it will do the same thing for you.--William C. Hallit's a book about (and for) all of us who make up the human race.<br />Hammond has done a wonderful job of capturing the beauty, joy, misery, humor and pain that all comes together to make up this puzzle we call life. This book is going to stay with me for a long time. I think it will do the same thing for you.--William C. Hall	2004-02-23
US	51063473	R1513Q9ENMY4IG	0805074287	882513594	City in the Sky: The Rise and Fall of the World Trade Center	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Story of The Trade Center-From Birth To Death and Beyond	Everything about the twin towers of the World Trade Center was outsize, from their conception to their creation and their destruction. New York Times reporters James Glanz and Eric Lipton have provided an admirable overview of their story in \\"City in the Sky.\\" The two authors deftly weave together the political, economic, architectural, engineering and human issues that were central to the towers' rise and fall.<br />The story began in the 1950s with an idea advocated by David Rockefeller of the Chase Manhattan Bank. The project came under the sponsorship of the Port Authority of New York, the only public agency with the resources or clout to accomplish it; the use of public funds to build two giant office buildings was justified as providing a \\"port on land\\" for importers and exporters, foreign divisions of businesses and the like. The autocratic boss of the Port Authority, Austin Tobin, did battle with the political and business leaders who potentially stood in the way of the project as the 1960s unfolded. Tobin assigned Guy Tozzoli of his staff to oversee the project, and he was there until the unimaginable day of their destruction almost four decades later.<br />A rising young architect named Minoru Yamasaki was commissioned to design the largest buildings ever built. While Yamasaki and his staff were at work in their Midwestern studios, the merchants who would be displaced by the project fought--and almost won--a desperate struggle for survival. Meanwhile, researchers in distant parts of the country were trying to answer the questions about how the buildings and the people inside them would react to the forces of wind and what might happen if they were ever struck by an airplane.<br />The towers finally opened, but in the economic climate of the mid-1970s, they became half-empty white elephants. But as things improved, the center was soon full (although the original concept of a \\"port on land\\" had to be abandoned) and the structures that had once been seen as alien and oversized now became a symbol of New York's, and the nation's economic might....a symbol that provided an inviting target for terrorists. The heroic rescue and demolition efforts that followed 9-11 bring the book, but not the story of the World Trade Center, to a close. Various theories have been advanced, but a federal report on the cause of the towers' collapse is still to come; and although a design has been chosen, the debate over the form the memorial at the site should take still continues.<br />Glanz and Lipton have written a compelling and informative book.--William C. Halllien and oversized now became a symbol of New York's, and the nation's economic might....a symbol that provided an inviting target for terrorists. The heroic rescue and demolition efforts that followed 9-11 bring the book, but not the story of the World Trade Center, to a close. Various theories have been advanced, but a federal report on the cause of the towers' collapse is still to come; and although a design has been chosen, the debate over the form the memorial at the site should take still continues.<br />Glanz and Lipton have written a compelling and informative book.--William C. Hall	2004-02-09
US	51063473	R31ZWIP8GXFN44	1591840287	576953440	When the Buck Stops With You: Harry S. Truman on Leadership	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Lessons From The Thirty-Third President	When Harry S. Truman left the presidency in January 1953, his approval rating stood at an historic low. But his reputation has been on a steady rise ever since. His blunt, plainspoken honesty has touched a responsive chord among Americans who feel their current leaders, whatever the party, offer them little but lies and double-talk.<br />Therefore, Truman seems a natural choice for the latest manual on leadership from Alan Axelrod.  The author draws extensively from Truman's own public statements and private diaries to extract a series of 156 lessons on leadership, divided into a series of chapters with themes like &quot;Hell: Giving and Getting&quot; and &quot;Do The Right Thing.&quot;Although primarily aimed at the business person, these lessons have value for anyone in a leadership role, including, of course, the poltical realm.<br />Truman's decisiveness, his high moral standards, his unwillingness to accept anything less than the best from himself or his colleagues all shine through in this work. A timeline helps place Truman's life in context, and the bibliography offers a number of potential sources for anyone with an intertest in further exploring the life and philosophy of our thirty-third president.--William C. Hall	2004-02-09
US	51063473	R127NDRO40E1AZ	0345457994	6017478	Lincoln and Whitman: Parallel lives in Civil War Washington	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Moving Portrait of Greatness	This is a profoundly moving work, which should be read with pleasure by any admirer of the Great Emancipator or America's Great Poet. Although Abraham Lincoln and Walt Whitman are dead, their spirits live; and in this volume, Daniel Mark Epstein has again clothed them in flesh and blood and restored the breath of life. You will find yourself in the Lincoln and Herndon law office in 1857 as the merits of Leaves Of Grass are debated by the law partners and their young clerks; you will stand alongside Whitman on the corner of Fourteenth and L streets in Washington in 1863 as he awaits the president and the opportunity to offer a friendly wave.<br />As far as history knows, the two men never formally met, though they came tantalizingly close to doing so on more than one occasion. Yet as Epstein notes in the subtitle of this book, they lived parallel lives in Civil War Washington. While Lincoln struggled to hold the union together, Whitman tenderly nursed the young men who were maimed by the tens of thousands on the great battlefields of that war. While Lincoln struggled with the insurgency in his own ranks from Treasury Secretary Samuel Chase, Whitman vainly pursued a federal job in the secretary's domain. Although Whitman had already created the bulk of his greatest works by 1865, the death of Lincoln provided the well-spring for a glorious last hurrah, including the grand panorama of &quot;When Lilacs Last in the Door-yard Bloom'd&quot; and  the poet's best known offspring, &quot;O Captain, My Captain.&quot;<br />Indeed, the assassination only strengthened the bond linking these two men of genius. Especially poignant is the last chapter, which takes place 22 years after Booth's dark deed. Whitman presents a talk on Lincoln at the Madison Square Theater to an audience that includes luminaries such as Mark Twain and William Dean Howells. Playing out at the same moment was one of the afterwords of Lincoln's earthly life, as his casket was moved, opened and reburied at his final resting place in Springfield.<br />Epstein brings an historian's skill and a poet's passion to this work. Read this book with an open mind and an open heart, and be ready to appreciate the great souls that sometimes walk alongside us.--William C. Halls final resting place in Springfield.<br />Epstein brings an historian's skill and a poet's passion to this work. Read this book with an open mind and an open heart, and be ready to appreciate the great souls that sometimes walk alongside us.--William C. Hall	2004-01-22
US	51063473	RR6KCYKBGVFIQ	0618155481	920527176	Braving Home: Dispatches from the Underwater Town, the Lava-Side Inn, and Other Extreme Locales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Be It Ever So Humble.....	Jake Halpern has written a remarkable first book.  Not yet thirty years old, he's called numerous cities spread over three continents \\"home.\\" Like most of us on this highly mobile world, home represented little more than a temporary base of operations. Working as a fact checker for the New Republic, Jake became increasingly fascinated by the concept of home as a central part of one's identity, and by those people so rooted to a particular place they would do anything to remain anchored there.<br /><br />After extensive research, Jake set out on an odyssey that took him to Princeville, North Carolina, a town submerged by a flood; Whittier, Alaska, a community at the end of a two and a half-mile long tunnel, and a community where almost everyone lives in a single, 14-story high rise; the \\"Lava-Side Inn,\\" the last occupied home in a Hawaiian subdivision that's been cut off by a volcano's active flow; Malibu, California, where the descendants of pioneers still battle the wildlifes that sweep their region with alarming regularity; and Grand Isle, Louisiana, a lone outpost in the Gulf of Mexico where a few hardy souls always ride out the worst hurricanes.<br /><br />In these pages, you'll get to know the independent, self-sufficient, heroic souls that Jake met during his journeys. You're very much the armchair traveler as he invites you into his motel room, the front seat of his rental car, and into the homes and lives of these memorable people. This is a great book to feed the mind and the heart.--William C. Hall	2004-01-16
US	51063473	R2TKHPTNZABQW1	0060082879	190627498	A Splendor of Letters: The Permanence of Books in an Impermanent World	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	A Work Of Learning And Passion Celebrating The Written Word	Reading the works of Nicholas A. Basbanes is somewhat like attending a series of lectures by a master professor, one who loves his subject passionately and seems to know every aspect of it. In this volume, as in the preceding works of his trilogy, Mr. Basbanes takes you around the world and back in forth in time, yet the journey always has a constant purpose: to explore the many ways in which humankind has transmitted its thoughts in written form.<br />A central theme of this work is the many assaults on the written word through the ages, and their ultimate triumph of survival. From the destruction of Carthage to the Nazi book-burnings and the more recent destruction of libraries in Tibet, Cambodia, Sarajevo, the written word has again and again been one of the prime targets for those who wish to subjugate a people. Yet for all that has been lost through violence and neglect, much has been preserved.<br />Here Basbanes turns to threats to books of a different sort--libraries discarding little-used volumes because of space issues, or various electronic technologies that have been heralded as being the replacement for the codex, or bound book, as we have known it for centuries. Yet the book endures,  and if enough people with the passion of Nicholas A. Basbanes are around, it should endure for countless years to come.<br />This book and its two predecessors represents an educational, entertaining and thought-provoking distillation of a career spent learning about and celebrating the written word. Although \\"A Splendor of Letters\\" marks the completion of his trilogy, I hope this will not be the last word Mr. Basbanes has to share on the subject. And I'm sure many other readers feel the same way.--William C. Hall	2004-01-13
US	51063473	RB7EBCBITAO5B	0306813092	814232642	The Land That Never Was: Sir Gregor Macgregor And The Most Audacious Fraud In History	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The Greatest Con Man Of All Time	P.T. Barnum may never have heard of Sir Gregor MacGregor, but he no doubt had his type of personality in mind when he coined the immortal phrase, \\"There's a sucker born every minute.\\" David Sinclair's new book, \\"The Land That Never Was,\\" presents the story of MacGregor and the greatest confidence scheme that ever was...the mythical Central American land of Poyais. In the early 1820s, MacGregor persuaded hundreds of his fellow Scotsmen to abandon their lives, homes and property to sail across the Atlantic and begin new lives in Poyais, which he ruled over as \\"Cazique.\\"<br /><br />They had been attracted by promises of a land mild in climate rich in natural resources, of a capital city and government on the European model when they would feel at home, and easy wealth with only moderate effort. The harsh reality, of course, was that Poyais only existed in MacGregor's mind.<br /><br />In the opening section of the book, Sinclair introduces us to some of MacGregor's victims as they set sail with high hopes only to find a jungle nightmare on their arrival at their new \\"home.\\" When things seem to be at their worst for the group, Sinclair leaves them to tell MacGregor's tale. We follow him through his exploits as a soldier of fortune in South America, where he fought alongside the likes of Simon Bolivar. But his military record was never as glittering as MacGregor would present it in later years. Ironically, when he was forced to engage in battle, he displayed both intelligence and bravery, but he only took this step when all other alternatives (including letting others do the fighting for him) had been exhausted.<br /><br />Sinclair follows MacGregor back to London, where he launches the Poyais scheme, playing on the explosion of interest in South America as a untapped market and resource. When we rejoin the settlers, or at least the ones who managed to make it home with their lives, what I found the most amazing portion of the book begins. Apparently MacGregor's personal charisma was so persuasive that he managed to persuade many of his followers, and others as well, that he was not the perpetrator but the victim in this scheme. He had simply placed his trust in the wrong subordinates, and given the opportunity, everything could be straightened out.<br /><br />MacGregor always seemed to stay one step ahead of the truth, and the law, until the latter caught up with him at his next stop, Paris, where he tried to stir fresh interest in Poyais. He was imprisoned and brought to trial, but leading the charmed life that he was, he was soon back in London, still working to entice people to put money into the land that didn't exist.<br /><br />Sinclair's narrative is fairly straightforward, and given to nice ironic touches at times, such as a description of MacGregor as not the sort of man to \\"let a good idea wither away because of a few technical difficulties.\\"  This is a entertaining and enlightening read.--William C. Hallive that he managed to persuade many of his followers, and others as well, that he was not the perpetrator but the victim in this scheme. He had simply placed his trust in the wrong subordinates, and given the opportunity, everything could be straightened out.    MacGregor always seemed to stay one step ahead of the truth, and the law, until the latter caught up with him at his next stop, Paris, where he tried to stir fresh interest in Poyais. He was imprisoned and brought to trial, but leading the charmed life that he was, he was soon back in London, still working to entice people to put money into the land that didn't exist.    Sinclair's narrative is fairly straightforward, and given to nice ironic touches at times, such as a description of MacGregor as not the sort of man to \\"let a good idea wither away because of a few technical difficulties.\\"  This is a entertaining and enlightening read.--William C. Hall	2004-01-10
US	51063473	R1JX4UCCPSM0AI	0231079737	348622219	Writing News for Broadcast	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Gold Standard For Broadcast Newswriting	Although there are many fine books on the craft of broadcast newswriting (the works of Mervin Block come to mind) there are none that surpass this book. Whether you are a beginning student or a long-time veteran of the field, this book has something to offer you. Bliss and Hoyt teach you the basics and the fine points of the craft, but they give you something more, namely an understanding of the significance of this work and why aspiring to the highest standards of professionalism is important. Their wise guidance is supplemented by numerous examples of outstanding work. Bliss worked with Murrow and Cronkite, just to drop a couple of names. This is your chance to learn from the best.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	R2OA787U9RD4P6	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	For The Love Of The Written Word	Stephen King gives us two books in one here, both connected by the overall theme of the writing life. He begins with a memoir of some of the incidents and turning points in his life that shaped him as a writer. The book closes with an account of his near-fatal encounter with an out-of-control van, and a moving discussion of the role writing played in his recovery.<br />In between, we get King's how-to primer for those who want to pursue the writer's trade. He offers the same kind of sound, practical advice that others have offered to aspiring writers: read a lot; write a lot; learn the basic tools of grammar; don't do it for money, or for fame, or for any reason but a need to express yourself. It's this mind-set that he wants to transmit, it seems, above all else.<br />Like some of the other reviewers, I haven't read anything by King before this book. Just a few impressions that stick with me: King has a great sense of irony, and a wonderful sense of humor. And he cares passionately about his craft. I think it doesn't matter to him when the critics dismiss him as the modern king of pulp fiction...and it's not a case of him laughing all the way to the bank. As long as he knows, and those who love and value him most know, that he's given his work the very best he's got to offer, he'll be happy with himself.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	R1OCST51IQONDR	0936783214	1646350	The Federalist Papers In Modern Language: Indexed for Today's Political Issues	Books	5	26	26	N	N	An Aid To Understanding Our Political Heritage	Mary E. Webster has performed an invaluable public service with this book. The Federalist Papers are among the most significant documents of this nation's founding era, yet they go largely unread, primarily because of their legalistic tone and complex sentence structure. As Webster states in her introduction, she has no political or social axe to grind and no agenda to fulfill. She simply wished to make these important documents available to a wider audience, and has succeeded admirably in that goal.<br /><br />Webster's background allowed her to bring a one-of-a-kind approach to this project. She's not a political scholar; she is a published novelist, and a certified interpreter for the deaf. She says this was her best preparation for conveying what Hamilton, Madison and Jay actually meant. Also, she cautions this work is not meant as a substitute for reading the papers themselves; rather she hopes it will inspire readers (as it did this one) to go to the originals with greater interest and confidence.<br /><br />In addition to the \\"translation\\" of the papers, Webster has also provided a comprehensive index to their contents. There's been much debate in recent years about the \\"original intent\\" of the men who drafted the constitution. The best places to find their true intentions are in the records of the constitutional convention itself and in the Federalist Papers.  It's all here, from taxation and property rights, to gun rights and the impeachment process.  This is a book for the scholar, the student and any citizen who cares about our most fundamental rights.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	RG6HMCOVM5ONV	B0000CAR5S	183886224	To America : Personal Reflections of an Historian	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fond Farewell That Came Too Soon	Sadly, this was to be Stephen Ambrose's final book before his death from cancer. But it's a fitting conclusion to a career spent celebrating the peoples of the United States and their most noble accomplishments. This book is part memoir, part personal essay on some of the personages and themes that loomed largest in his work.<br />In his opening chaper, &quot;The &quot;Founding Fathers,&quot; Ambrose reflects on the achievements and shortcomings of the men who led our revolution. It's as good a defense against the trend of political correctness and the error of viewing their 17th century world through our 21st century prisim as you're likely to find. In subsequent chapters, Ambrose celebrates the military genius of Andrew Jackson, grapples with white America's treatment of Native Americans and offers his perspectives on such multi-faceted characters as U.S. Grant, Theodore Roosevelt and Richard Nixon. We learn how Ambrose was drawn to a career in history and how his love for writing about &quot;men of action&quot; developed.<br />Stephen Ambrose's work unabashedly celebrated the best of America, without turning a blind eyes to its faults. &quot;To America&quot; is a fond farewell from one of the era's most popular historians.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	R36NIVYMQCZE68	0393324893	514407322	Readings: Essays and Literary Entertainments	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A Passion For Books And Literature	The writings of Michael Dirda are a wonderful gift to anyone who loves books and literature. \\"Readings\\" is a collection of his columns from the Washington Post's \\"Book World\\" section. The contents are as varied as a well-stocked library. His learning, his wit and his breadth of his interests make this book equally inviting.<br /><br />Within these covers you'll find an appreciation of P.G. Wodehouse, an excursion into the literary world of New Orleans, the story of his guest membership in New York's Yale Club (and its wonderfully inviting library), a discussion of Japanese literature, ruminations on turning 50, the pleasures of book-shopping...and I haven't begun to exhaust the variety. Read this volume and understand why Francine Prose calls Dirda \\"a cultural treasure\\" and why Annie Proulx says he may \\"be as close to the ideal critic as we are likely to get.\\"<br /><br />One cautionary word to readers of Dirda's delightful memoir published last year, \\"An Open Book\\": as he notes there, he adapted some of the autobiographical pieces from this book for that memoir. But the overall amount of overlap is small. And a second cautionary note to all: be warned that your \\"must read\\" list is likely to grow even longer once you've immersed yourself in Dirda's enthusiasms. If you cherish fine writing in its many forms, you should love this book.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	R3VD1ONDU46VNA	0312317255	323603164	A Pound of Paper: Confessions of a Book Addict	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	A True Delight For Every Book Lover	This is a engaging, entertaining memoir by a true book lover. The leisurely, slightly discursive way in which John Baxter unfolds his life story led me into imagining I had struck up a conversation with him in a musty second-hand book shop; and found his story so entertaining that I invited him across the street to a dark, smoky pub to continue the tale over several tall pints of lager.<br /><br />Baxter grew up in Australia, and has since called London, Los Angeles and Paris home. He's been a broadcaster, novelist, biographer and film critic. The one constant thread in this far-ranging life has been his love of books. As a young adult, he became obsessed with science fiction. While living in London, he stumbled on a rare copy of a Graham Greene children's book, which served as the basis for a Greene collection he spent several years building.<br /><br />In this book, he celebrates some of the most memorable people he's encountered along the way, including book runner Martin Stone (A book runner makes his living, if you can call it that, by buying and reselling books from flea markets, thrift stores and the like); and several literary greats, including Kingsley Amis, Ray Bradbury and Harry Harrison. He also explores collectors of erotica, the difference between Paris and London bookshops, skewers the ignorance of many eBay sellers, and has a grand good time through it all. The closing scene, where he brings all the books he owns together in one place for the first time in his life, had a special resonance for me....it's something I dream of in my own life. For book lovers everywhere.--William C. Hall	2004-01-04
US	51063473	R32PW6Z1UINA6K	1400061490	774691502	A Saint, More or Less: A Novel	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An Historical Drama About The Nature Of Faith	Although the events in Henry Grunwald's novel, \\"A Saint, More Or Less,\\" take place four centuries in the past, the story has a very contemporary feel. In this fact-based novel, he raises intriguing questions about the motivations behind religious wars and the intersection of religious faith and secular power.<br />Most of the principals of the story are drawn from real life. Barbe Acarie was a Parisian woman of great influence and faith. Nicole Tavernier was a mysterious young woman who arrived in the French capital one day, attracting great attention from both religious leaders and the public at large with her powerful preaching and apparent miracles. The lives of the two women become forever intertwined when Nicole is taken into the Acarie household. The two women begin as friends but rivalry and mistrust quickly take hold, and their battle for spiritual primacy is played out against the continuing struggle between the Catholic and Protestant faiths. The reader is swept along by the flow of events until both women meet their unltimate destinies.<br />The story is largely seen through the eyes of Dr. Rene Monnet, family physician to the Acaries. Dr. Monnet is strictly a product of the author's imagination, and in many ways is his stand-in in the story, raising the troubling questions posed by the dramatic events of the narrative. This is an elegantly-written, entertaining, and highly thought-provoking book.--William C. Hall	2004-01-03
US	51063473	RH522E74IHGC2	0870714392	443309041	Editor for Oregon, An: Charles A. Sprague and the Politics of Change	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Oregon's Charles Sprague: Editor, Governor, Leader	In \\"An Editor for Oregon,\\" Floyd McKay provides a thoroughly-researched, eminently readable account of Sprague's life and times. McKay, a journalism professor at Western Washington University, brings unquestioned qualifications to this work. Before entering the academic world, he spent many years as a working journalist, both in broadcast and print. His first job was on the Oregon Statesman, working under Sprague, its owner and publisher. But though his admiration for his subject is clear, it's also a straightforward and honest account.<br /><br />McKay traces Sprague's birth and youth in Kansas, his migration to Washington state and the influence the Progressive movement had on shaping his political outlook, his entry into the newspaper business, and his arrival in Oregon in 1925. A few years later he acquired the Statesman, a newspaper from the state's pioneer era that had fallen on difficult times. Sprague grew quickly in stature and influence, yet his nomination and election to the governorship over incumbent Charles Martin in 1938, only 13 years after he had come to the state, was something of a surprise.<br /><br />His single term as governor was dominated by the state's response to the outbreak of World War II. In 1942,  the same voters who had embraced Sprague only four years earlier turned their backs on him, ousting him in the Republican primary. Although a competent governor, Sprague's time in office turned out to be only a prelude to his greatest service to the state. For the next 25 years, with his front page column \\"It Seems To Me\\" and on the Statesman's editorial page, Sprague evolved into the most widely-read and respected opinion-maker in the state. Yet his active public service was not at an end; he served for a time as an alternate delegate to the United Nations.<br /><br />\\"An Editor for Oregon\\" provides not only a compressive look at Sprague's life and career, but a history of the state's political evolution from the Depression through the sixties. It's a first-rate work.--William C. Hallrk.--William C. Hall	2004-01-03
US	51063473	R1LO60XUWK077S	1565121929	569139212	A Great and Glorious Game: Baseball Writings of A. Bartlett Giamatti	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Glorious Book About A Glorious Game	When renaissance scholar A. Bartlett Giamatti was asked to become president of Yale University, he said the only presidency he had ever aspired to was that of the American League. Instead, a few years later, he took the helm of the National League, and shortly after that, became commissioner of baseball. Tragically, his tenure in that office ended after only five months with his sudden death at the age of 51.<br /><br />But Giamatti's legacy endures. and those who seek to understand or re-embrace it need only turn to this gem of a book. It's all here, opening with his wonderful essay, \\"The Green Fields of The Mind,\\" which famously begins \\"It breaks your heart. It is designed to break your heart.\\" There's his farewell to Tom Seaver, where the departure of Seaver and his wife Nancy from the Mets calls to mind a famous painting of Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden. The book closes with its most powerful and saddest item--a statement Giamatti released to the press after banning Pete Rose from the game for life for betting on baseball.<br /><br />If you love the \\"great and glorious game,\\" you must read this book. Savor the beauty of the prose and the passionate idealism that drives it. And pause for a moment to reflect on what the game--and the world--lost with Bart Giamatti's passing.--William C. Hall	2004-01-02
US	51063473	R18ZZXPO5EKM57	037570244X	312526919	Presidential Fact Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best Single Volume On The Presidents	This reference work, in its current and previous editions, is a personal favorite of mine. Although tens of thousands of volumes containing millions of words have been written about the presidents, I don't think there's been any other single book that encompasses so much data and organizes it so well.  The first section consists of individual presentations of each of our chief executives. There's data on their parents, wives and children; details of the conventions that nominated them and their opponents; lists of cabinet members and Supreme Court appointments; timelines of important dates in their administrations and lives; and more. The second section, titled &quot;Comparative Data&quot; helps you measure just about any aspect of one president in relation to his predecessors and successors. Who was the longest lived? The shortest lived? Which ones were members of congress before their terms, or after? What books did they write? What were their religious affiliations? These and thousands more questions are answered in this handy and definitive work. I still remember when my mother brought home a 35 cent paperback copy of the second edition for me one rainy afternoon....I was immediately hooked, and have put the data I learned to good use on school tests and trivia quizzes ever since!--William C. Hall	2004-01-01
US	51063473	RR0B1LNRC12GW	0140253017	992263432	The Day John Met Paul: An Hour-By-Hour Account of How the Beatles Began	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Birth Of A Legendary Team	In the all-time gallery of Beatles photographs, there are several that have achieved iconic status. The one on the cover of this book is probably the earliest. It was taken on July 6th, 1957, and shows John Lennon and his original group, the Quarrymen, performing at the St. Peter's Parish Church Garden Fete. Among those watching the performance was a young man who would be introduced to Lennon later that day. It was one of those meetings that changed history, because that young man was Paul McCartney.<br />For all that's been written about the Beatles, it's amazing how much of their history has been obscured. The year of the Lennon-McCartney meeting has been variously published as 1955 and 1956, in addition to the correct 1957. In this volume, O'Donnell gets the year right--and a lot more. &quot;The Day John Met Paul&quot; is a vivid, hour-by-hour recreation of that momentous day in music history. O'Donnell's exhaustive research also allows the reader to understand the city of Liverpool, the skiffle music craze, and all the other elements of the world of 1957 that came together to create the Beatles.  O'Donnell pulls this all together with a spellbinding storytelling technique.  &quot;The Day John Met Paul&quot; is a must for anyone who wants a better understanding of the birth of the Beatles.--William C. Hall	2004-01-01
US	51063473	R2XU7DKS7AF3TB	0805069429	328457754	James K. Polk (The American Presidents Series)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	An Admirable Portrait Of A Neglected President	When the Democratic party nominated the nation's first dark horse presidential candidate in 1844, the opposition Whig party responded with the cry, \\"Who is James Polk?\\" Today, many people unfamiliar with this era of the nation's history might ask the same question. Veteran journalist John Seigenthaler provides the answer in this compact, well-organized biography, the latest entry in the \\"American Presidents\\" series.<br /><br />Of course, the Whigs, and the rest of the country, knew who Polk was, but they were surprised to see him contending for the highest office in the land. As a young man, Polk had risen rapidly from the Tennessee legislature to the US House of Representatives, where he was a powerful and effective speaker. He returned home to run for governor of the state, seeing that position as his eventual springboard to the presidency. He served a single two-year term in the statehouse, but lost the next two elections. Most in the political arena thought Polk's fortunes were in eclipse before his surprising emergence as the Democratic nominee and subsequent victory over Henry Clay in the general election.<br /><br />Polk promised to serve only one term in the presidency, a pledge that he kept. He also laid out four principal goals for his administration--a lower tariff, restoration of an independent national treasury, and securing Oregon and California for the United States. He accomplished all of these, the most challenging being the acquisition of California, which came at the price of an unpopular war with Mexico.<br /><br />Historians have consistently rated Polk as among the presidential greats or near-greats. But he has little historical resonance with the public in comparison with outsized figures such as Washington, Jackson, Lincoln and the Roosevelts. Seigenthaler explains this as being a product of Polk's colorless, humorless, driven personality. He quotes extensively from Polk's presidential diary to illustrate the rivalries and jealousies that often seemed to control his thoughts and actions. While he may have been a small man in some ways, Polk accomplished great things, Seigenthaler concludes...and that's why his life and career are worthy of greater acknowledgment today.--William C. Hallthoughts and actions. While he may have been a small man in some ways, Polk accomplished great things, Seigenthaler concludes...and that's why his life and career are worthy of greater acknowledgment today.--William C. Hall	2003-12-31
US	51063473	RPMUKGK1QGPD	0316104299	783382623	The Great American Baseball Card Flipping, Trading and Bubble Gum Book	Books	5	15	15	N	N	&quot;Goodnight Sibi Sisti, Wherever You Are&quot;--From The Book	This book is a treasure. I think if I had to pack one bag of books for a long stay on a desert island, this would be one of the first ones included. Like one of the other reviewers, I have worn out more than one copy and find myself puzzled why it's been allowed to go out of print.<br />&quot;The Great American Flipping, Trading and Bubble Gum Card Book&quot; has three principal sections. The first, &quot;Where Have You Gone VINCE DiMaggio&quot; is a warm and very witty recollection of the co-author's childhoods in the 1950s and the central role that baseball cards played in them. Part two, &quot;This Kid Is Going To Make It,&quot; is a look at how the baseball card business operated circa 1973, the date of the book's original publication.<br />As entertaining as these openers are, the best (and largest) part of the book is the one simply called &quot;Profiles.&quot; Reproduced in full color are hundreds of cards from the early 1950s to the late 1960s, accompanied by the author's observations about the players immortalized on them. You'll find greats on these pages, like Richie Ashburn, Stan Musial and Ted Williams...but the real joy is the rediscovery of the men on the fringes of the game's glory....&quot;immortals&quot; like Chris Cannizzaro, Frank Leja, Foster Castleman, Clyde Kluttz and Coot Veal. It's tempting to quote from the book at length, but that would spoil the fun. Just to give you a sense of the flavor though, I opened at random to the page featuring Hector Lopez, poor-fielding third baseman for the Yankees and Kansas City A's. After judging Lopez not to be just a bad fielding third baseman for a baseball player, but for a human being, they declare,  he did not &quot;simply field a ground ball, he attacked it. Like a farmer trying to kill a snake with a stick.&quot;<br />This is a wonderful book for any baseball fan, and should especially be treasured on those short, cold winter days when the crack of the bat and the warm blue skies and green grass of summer seem oh-so-far away.--William C. Hallsummer seem oh-so-far away.--William C. Hall	2003-12-30
US	51063473	R2HN1FCZCRIWWT	0743246489	354374520	What Do You Think of Ted Williams Now?: A Remembrance	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Essence Of A Baseball Great	Some new material is sandwiched around it, but the core of this small book is one of the finest pieces of sports journalism ever, Richard Ben Cramer's justly famous profile of Ted Williams which appeared in Esquire in 1986. This extended essay was also published in a fine photo collection about Williams, Seasons of the Kid. Williams' passing has brought it back into print, and with good reason. For all the millions of words expended during and after Williams' lifetime trying to explain him, I doubt that none came closer to the heart of the man than Cramer.<br />Cramer is also author of a much-praised and much criticized biography of Williams' contemporary and rival, Joe DiMaggio. Although his book about the Yankee Clipper was subtitled &quot;The Hero's Life,&quot; Cramer found very little heroic in DiMaggio beyond the baseball field. Not so in the case of Williams. Revealed here is a true American original, loud, brash, profane, stubbornly independent, courageous in two tours of service to his country, the man who set out to earn the title of Greatest Hitter Who Ever Lived, and who, in the eyes of many fans, made good on that lofty objective.<br />It's interesting to note that Williams inspired not one, but two absolute classics of sportswriting. (The other being John Updike's famous account of Ted's final game, &quot;Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu.&quot;) Other books may give you more details about Williams' exploits, both on and off the field. But none will come as close to capturing the essence of the man.--William C. Hall	2003-12-30
US	51063473	R168XO4XRQXM8Q	0899190170	408327830	Floater	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Small Comedic Masterpiece	This novel is a comedic delight. \\"Floater\\" is the writing job at a fictional news magazine held by the book's central character Fred Becker. (It's also a job Trillin once held in his pre-New Yorker days.) A \\"floater\\" does not have a permanent assignment, but moves from one section of the magazine to another as illness or other reason creates a temporary need. The story takes place over one week in the life of the magazine, and finds Becker wrestling with an intriguing news tip, that, if true, could lead to a significant change in his life.<br />Trillin's gift for illuminating the absurdities of life really shine here. The plot, while entertaining,  takes a back seat to the stable of realistic characters that just about anyone who has spent time in an office will recognize--the glad-handler, the martyr, the hypochondriac, the guy you want to avoid going to lunch with, the champion of political correctness, and others.<br />It's a puzzle to me that this hilarious book has been allowed to go out of print. Though I've been a fan of Trillin for some time, I have to given thanks to Sara Nelson and her recent book, \\"So Many Books, So Little Time,\\" for calling my attention to this forgotten gem.--William C. Hall	2003-12-28
US	51063473	RV66LA5PV4JDJ	0316192945	63681096	American Sucker	Books	5	40	50	N	N	Not Just  A Financial Story....A Human Story	This is not just a book about finance, though at first glance it would be easy enough to mistake it for one. The clever cover design resembles a stock ticker, and if you dip into the opening pages, you will learn that this story begins with author and critic David Denby's goal of making a million dollars. Denby wasn't seeking wealth merely for the sake of wealth; at the beginning of 2000, his wife had told him their marriage was at an end. Denby became obsessed with the idea of holding onto the seven-bedroom Manhattan apartment he had shared with her and their two sons. If only he could ride the seemingly steadily rising tide of the stock market and make that million, he could buy out her share and preserve their home.<br />Denby is a long-time film critic (New York magazine, The New Yorker) and author of \\"Great Books,\\" a passionate account of his return to college in middle age to rediscover the seminal works of western civilization. Although ostensibly about his financial quest, the reader slowly discovers this book is really about his quest to rebuild and maintain a meaningful life. He comes under the spell of New Economy stars who would fall mightily within a couple of years, including ImClone founder Sam Waksal and Merrill Lynch Internet analyst Henry Blodget. Denby adopted a course he knew was risky (though how risky, he didn't realize) by focusing on new technologies such as ImClone's cancer drugs and the firms producing the tools that would usher in the true Information Superhighway, with the entire contents of the Library of Congress transmitted to the other side of the globe at light speed. Denby works to learn as much as he can about those to whom he has entrusted his money and dreams, and the more he learns, the more aware he becomes of the betrayal that eventually wiped out the savings and shattered the faith of tens, if not hundreds of thousands.<br />Throughout, Denby is engagingly, openly frank about the impacts of the financial roller coaster ride he experienced. At one time or another, his sleep habits, his bowel habits and his sex life suffered. But what seemed to have been at stake most of all was his sense of self and the realization of the things that really matter in life, including making the most of the limited days we are given.  His narrative closes with a hopeful reaffirmation of these core values.<br />This is passionate, vivid book with lessons for us all.--William C. Halle experienced. At one time or another, his sleep habits, his bowel habits and his sex life suffered. But what seemed to have been at stake most of all was his sense of self and the realization of the things that really matter in life, including making the most of the limited days we are given.  His narrative closes with a hopeful reaffirmation of these core values.<br />This is passionate, vivid book with lessons for us all.--William C. Hall	2003-12-28
US	51063473	R1BDK4PJTM8DGP	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The People Of The Doomed City Live Again	Robert Harris has managed to interweave a fine thriller and an entertaining history lesson in his latest novel, &quot;Pompeii.&quot; The story unfolds over a three-day period, August 22-25, 79 AD....the days that spelled doom for Pompeii and its neighbor on the Bay of Naples, Herculaneum. A young engineer, Marcus Attilus Primus, has been sent from Rome to take charge of the Aqua Agusta, the great aqueduct bringing water to the communities on and near the bay. His predecessor as Aquarius, or chief engineer, has suddenly vanished. As the new chief takes charge, his path crosses that of Nuemrius Popidus Ampliatus, a former slave who has amassed a personal fortune and political influence; Ampliatus's independent, headstrong daughter Corelia; the great scholar Pliny, who is serving as admiral for the navy; and other vivid personages. Looming over them all is Mount Vesuvius, soon to rain death and destruction.<br />This is probably not an original observation about this book, but it's a worthwhile one--much like the story of the Titanic, we know the outcome from the beginning,  but nevertheless are swept up by the drama and driving force of the narrative. The author's careful research is evident, as is his skill in interweaving these details so as to add life to the story. These are vividly-drawn, fully dimensional characters who almost leap to life off the page.<br />Harris' story reflects a world almost two millennia in the past. At the close of the book, I found myself thinking about how much progress humankind has made in that span...and how little. The last couple of centuries have brought great strides in manufacturing, transportation and communication, yet the Romans enjoyed a standard of achievement and civilization that was not to be surpassed for centuries. We can be proud of many of our advancements as a people, though some steps--such as the abolition of slavery--have come very recently in the context of our overall history.<br />The labors of generations of archeologists have unearthed the buried remains of this once-thriving seaport. The skill of Robert Harris has brought its people vividly back to life.--William C. Hallrcheologists have unearthed the buried remains of this once-thriving seaport. The skill of Robert Harris has brought its people vividly back to life.--William C. Hall	2003-12-28
US	51063473	R329SQYR99KYF4	0465047548	681475555	Evil: An Investigation	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Thoughtful, But Ultimately Unsatisfying	This book has much of value, but ultimately left me unsatisfied. At the end, I empathized with how the person must have felt who heard the blind men describe their encounter with the elephant; each had latched onto part of the reality of the beast, but their individual pieces didn't add up to a coherent portrait.<br />In \\"Evil: An Investigation\\" Lance Morrow offers a series of descriptions of evil at work in our world.  He draws on his own experiences--an encounter with Milosevic, as well as on the terrible events that have dominated so much of the human story. Whether it's Hitler, Caligula, or the events of 911, Morrow has interesting observations, elegantly expressed with the same gifts that have graced the pages of Time magazine for almost 40 years. Most intriguing is his assertion that evil \\"is always a story,  a narrative played out in the world.\\" He poses many intriguing questions--such as whether evil can be committed to further the good, or if degrees of evil exist; but the answers are few.<br />At the core, though, something is lacking. Morrow ultimately asks if we can--or even if we should try--to understand evil. If that's true, than what is the purpose of this work? I came to these pages hoping to find some sort of greater clarity, if not a definitive explanation. That's why I ultimately finished this book with a sense of disappointment.	2003-12-22
US	51063473	R334C9K9IRV51B	0306812673	647305880	These Honored Dead: How The Story Of Gettysburg Shaped American Memory	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Making Of An American Legend	If you type \\"Gettysburg\\" into this site's search engine, you'll find more than 500 books that include the name of that famous battle in their title. It's likely that more has been written about those three days at the beginning of July, 1863, than any other battle in the history of the United States. Yet in \\"These Honored Dead\\" Thomas A. Desjardin brings fresh insights to the Gettysburg saga by beginning his account on July 4, 1863--the day after the guns fell silent.<br /><br />In this thoughtful work, Desjardin explores the legends and myths that have developed around Gettysburg in the ensuing decades. He argues that the actual record of what happened has been open to conflicting interpretation by just about any group or individual with enough persuasive ability to bend the story to its own purposes \\"History has a way of coming out as we hoped it would rather than the way things really happened,\\" he observes, then spends the next several chapters exploring how the reality of the conflict has been obscured, through accidental or deliberate misinterpretation. In the first decades after the battle, it might have been a disgraced officer seeking to salvage his reputation; in more recent times, it's likely to have been a novelist or filmmaker in search of a dramatic hero or moment to illuminate his story. But whatever the motives, the result has been to shroud the reality of those days in myth.<br /><br />In one chapter, Desjardin considers the conflicting versions on what happened on Little Round Top. Certainly it's a pivotal spot on the battlefield; but if we can't determine the truth of what happened on a piece of real estate barely 100 yards wide, how can we hope to sort out the myths from the reality of the battle as a whole?<br /><br />Do you believe that as many men died in the three days of Gettysburg as in the entire Vietnam war? Have you read that the Confederate army headed into Gettysburg hoping to raid a shoe factory or warehouse? Do you believe the positioning of a horse's hooves on an equestrian statue at the battlefield is designed to convey the rider's ultimate fate? Do you blame James Longstreet for the Confederate defeat, or credit Joshua Chamberlain for the Union victory? Then be prepared to re-think what you know about this most famous of American battles. Desjardin's book is not only a thoughtful look at those three days in July; it's also an intriguing exploration of the entire history-making process.--William C. Halls on an equestrian statue at the battlefield is designed to convey the rider's ultimate fate? Do you blame James Longstreet for the Confederate defeat, or credit Joshua Chamberlain for the Union victory? Then be prepared to re-think what you know about this most famous of American battles. Desjardin's book is not only a thoughtful look at those three days in July; it's also an intriguing exploration of the entire history-making process.--William C. Hall	2003-12-21
US	51063473	RZL21PN08OOWE	0060567740	730406828	Squeeze Play: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	A Great Baseball Novel...And More!	Most baseball fans with an interest in the game's history will remember that for the first 70 years of the twentieth century, the nation's capitol was represented by two American League clubs known as the Washington Senators. (Their moments of glory were few. The famous cry was: \\"Washington. First in War, First in Peace and Last in the American League.) But what about the third Senators franchise, born in 1989? You don't remember them? That's because, sadly, they only existed in the imagination of Jane Leavy and between the covers of this book.<br /><br />\\"Squeeze Play\\" is a wild, bawdy, funny, true-to-life account of life in a big league clubhouse and in the sports department of a daily newspaper. Leavy, a former sportswriter and more recently the biographer of Sandy Koufax, draws on her own experiences, a passionate love of the game and a wild imagination to create one of the most entertaining baseball novels I've ever read.<br /><br />I suppose I should add a cautionary note: \\"Squeeze Play\\" is not for the prudish. Sex and crude behavior are often on display (just as they are in the real world.) The book is told in the form of a diary of the Senators' first season, as chronicled by Leavy's alter-ego, A.B. Berkowitz. Berkowitz, who grew up worshipping Yankee Joey Proud (a fictional re-creation of Mickey Mantle) is about to find out if her love of the game will withstand close daily exposure to it...in particular, as practiced by this group of has-beens and never-weres. The team starts out the season challenging the record for most losses to begin a campaign and comes to the wire shadowing the 1962 Mets for the title of worst team of the modern era.<br /><br />But this book is about a lot more than wins and losses on the field. Leavy has a lot to say about life, love, friendship, moral values and all the things that really matter....and she does it with an abundance of wit, style and humor.--William C. Hall	2003-12-20
US	51063473	RTVI4S2KOCHF6	0345444523	622224704	The President's House: A First Daughter Shares the History and Secrets of the World's Most Famous Home	Books	4	27	27	N	N	The Story of the White House, By A Famous First Daughter	Former First Daughter Margaret Truman offers the reader an entertaining, anecdotal account of life at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Her focus is on the White House as a home, though its role as a seat of power is not neglected. As a result, you can expect to learn more here about the first wives, children, doormen, Secret Service agents, maids, gardeners, cooks and others who have lived and labored behind these famous walls..although the presidents themselves aren't entirely overlooked.<br /><br />The exterior the White House presents to the world has changed little in two centuries...but the interior has been undergoing an almost constant process of destruction and renewal. We learn about the 1814 torching of the president's house by invading British troops; the addition of greenhouses, which gave way to the west wing at the beginning of the 20th century; almost constant sprees of redecoration and reconfiguring of the public and family rooms, all of which culminated in the complete reconstruction of the White House during the Truman years.<br /><br />There are chapters about the rambunctious children, the unusual pets, the glamorous weddings, riotous inaugural balls and other historic events that have enlivened this historic mansion. You will get a sense of the behind-the-scenes preparation that goes into welcoming a visiting head of state or similar dignitary.  There are two sections of illustrations, one in color, that further help the reader share in Truman's wonder and appreciation of this historic house.--William C. Hall	2003-12-14
US	51063473	R2EYAONCVCRNR9	158234311X	742205657	Ghosty Men: The Strange but True Story of the Collyer Brothers and My Uncle Arthur, New York's Greatest Hoarders (An Urban Historical)	Books	5	85	94	N	Y	A Strange, Moving, Wonderfully-Told Tale	I've been fascinated by the story of the Collyer brothers for years, but had only found the most superficial accounts of their lives. Even as a youth, I was a budding hoarder (magazines, newspapers, Congressional Records, old phone books), and my mother told me about the Collyers and the 100-plus tons of junk that was found inside their Harlem brownstone after their deaths in 1947. It was clearly a cautionary tale and it worked, to a degree.<br /><br />But who were these men? What led Homer and Langley Collyer to entomb themselves in a crypt of their own making? Franz Lidz tells their story with a great sense of compassion and understanding. His sympathetic treatment of the Collyers in large part stems for his affection for his own Uncle Arthur, also an eccentric hoarder, if on a much lesser scale. Chapters about the Collyers alternate with Uncle Arthur's story; the reader is left with not just a better understanding of the mysteries of the collecting impulse, but of that mysterious, wonderful power we call love.--William C. Hall	2003-12-14
US	51063473	R3VTXNUKA9SFC7	1558687432	504109423	Exploding Whale: And Other Remarkable Stories from	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Story of The Exploding Whale...And A Lot More	To Oregon television viewers, Paul Linnman is a familiar, friendly voice and face they've welcomed into their homes as a reporter, anchorman and talk show host for most of the last 35 years. To the rest of the world, he's \\"the guy who blew up the whale.\\" Which is kind of a shame, in a way. First, it's not quite accurate...it was the state Highway Division that blew up the whale; Paul and his cameraman, Doug Brazil, were just there to record it. Second, it may be the oddest, but by no means is it the finest story Paul has told during those decades.<br /><br />First, the facts, briefly. In November, 1970, a dead sperm whale washed up near the town of Florence on the Oregon Coast. No one quite knew how to dispose of it. After due consideration, the decision was made to use dynamite. The hope was to blast the carcass into small enough chunks for the gulls and other scavengers to take care of. It didn't quite work out that way. All the spectators got sprayed with whale goo, and had to dodge hunks of falling blubber. Thankfully, no one was hurt, but one large fragment landed on a new Oldsmobile a quarter of a mile away and flattened it.<br /><br />Much to Linnman's surprise, the story has taken on a life of its own, thanks to the Internet, humorist Dave Barry and others. In this memoir, Paul seems a bit bemused by all the attention, but is good natured and gracious about it as well. He just wishes people would also ask about some of the truly inspiring stories of human courage, character and achievement he's devoted most of his career to chronicling. In this book, he interweaves many of these great \\"people\\" stories with all you could ever want to know about the infamous whale. Linnman also adds a few enlightening and entertaining anecdotes about life behind the scenes in television news to round out this fine volume.--William C. Hall	2003-12-07
US	51063473	RKB9JJSGNTZIR	1931561494	161474851	Me and Orson Welles: A Novel	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Life, Love and Youth...Who Could Ask For More?	I've read a lot of books recently, but I don't think there's one that can top \\"Me and Orson Welles\\" for the sheer pleasure it provided. This is a classic, wonderful, coming-of-age story,  set in the New York City of 1937. Richard Samuels is a 17-year-old high school student with a big heart and big dreams. Through lucky happenstance, he lands a small part in \\"Julius Caesar,\\" the opening Broadway production for the Mercury Theatre and its star, 22-year-old Orson Welles.<br /><br />I'm not a Welles scholar by any means, but have read several biographies of the man, and would say the outsized figure who strides through these pages rings true. Yet for all his manic genius, Welles never steals center stage from our hero, Richard, who we quickly learn has a greater soul, if perhaps a lesser talent.  Joseph Cotten, John Houseman, Norman Lloyd and the other famous Mercury names come to life in the story as well. You will feel yourself in their midst, feel the great tensions leading up to that all-so-important opening night, revel in their triumphs, share in their disappointments.<br /><br />This will sound like a clich&eacute;, I know...but I laughed out loud (a lot); I came close to crying a couple of times; and I closed the book with a real sense of disappointment that it was over, but grateful to have recaptured a wonderful feel for that time in life when everything seems magical and new and anything seems to be possible.--William C. Hall	2003-12-04
US	51063473	R73LPLHD3BVW8	0871138743	758410541	Triangle: The Fire That Changed America	Books	5	13	14	N	N	How The World of 1911 Shaped The World We Live In Today	If you read this book...prepare to be shocked. Prepare to be outraged.  On March 25, 1911, a fire broke out on the ninth floor of a building in New York City. The eighth, ninth and tenth floors of this structure were home to a successful blouse-making firm, the Triangle Waist Company. In the panic and pandemonium that followed, 146 people, the majority of them young immigrant women, lost their lives. Some were burned to death; some jumped, even though they knew they would perish, to avoid the horror of the flames; others plunged down an elevator shaft or were killed when an overloaded fire escape collapsed. It was the worst workplace disaster in New York history until the destruction of the World Trade Center in 2001, and author David Von Drehle brings these faceless victims back to life so that we realize the true magnitude of their loss.<br /><br />This is a riverting work of narrative history that also places the events described in the larger context of the societal changes that followed. The Triangle fire came a little more than a year after a major labor uprising among the garment workers that marked an important elevation in their status. The story of this strike is one of the main themes leading up to the tragedy; the other is a picture of Tammany Hall, the machine that controlled New York politics for generations.<br /><br />In the wake of the disaster, there was an outpouring of grief and sympathy and support for the survivors...and very real fears that the larger lessons of the disaster would be forgotten. Although a criminal trial against the Triangle's owners many not have produced the moral victory many had hoped, the strong currents of change flowing through society could not be stopped. Von Drehle documents how Tammany, realizing its survival was at stake, shifted from a force of reaction to a force of change. Although Tamany policeman had harassed and beaten participants in the 1909 strike, reformers and politicians, including Al Smith, Robert Wagner and Frances Perkins, would go on to accomplish significant reforms in workplace safety conditions--and with Tammany's backing. Ultimately, Von Drehle argues, this wave of change peaked with the rise of urban liberalism and Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal.<br /><br />In Von Drehle's gifted storytelling, the lost world of almost a century ago lives again. Read this book, and better understand how that world of yesterday shaped the one we live in today.--William C. Hallrkins, would go on to accomplish significant reforms in workplace safety conditions--and with Tammany's backing. Ultimately, Von Drehle argues, this wave of change peaked with the rise of urban liberalism and Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal.    In Von Drehle's gifted storytelling, the lost world of almost a century ago lives again. Read this book, and better understand how that world of yesterday shaped the one we live in today.--William C. Hall	2003-12-01
US	51063473	R3A70Q4LK5BW6U	0670876933	59291332	Kesey's Jail Journal: Cut the M************ Loose	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	A Journey To Another Time and Another Place	Get ready for quite a trip...this really isn't a book, it's a time machine. Fasten your seat belt and enjoy the journey, courtesy of the one and only Ken Kesey.<br /><br />Many of the icons of the counterculture movement spent 1967's famous Summer of Love in places like Swinging London, Monterrey or Haight-Ashbury. Kesey was far removed from the heart of the action during those months--he was serving out a jail sentence for his conviction on a marijuana possession charge. Thanks to his lack of a previous record, Kesey was able to do most of his time in a sheriff's honor camp, an experiment in rehabilitation nestled in the California redwoods.<br /><br />Kesey managed to keep a journal of his days in confinment, pouring forth his raw emotions, vivid dreams, sometimes gentle, sometimes agressive encounters with authority figures and fellow prisoners. He supplemented his writings with a series of vivid paintings and drawings that helped capture the chaotic nature of the experience.<br /><br />After his release, Kesey had hoped to publish the journal, but found that the available printing technology couldn't do his illustrations justice. By the mid 1990s, he had revived the project, and was in the final stages of preparing it for publication at the time of his death in 2001. So, if you are a lover of Kesey's works, get this volume, read it, celebrate it, and hold it close. This is a stream-of-consciousness, often profane, nakedly honest record of a pivotal summer in one of the great creative lives of the 20th century.--William C. Hall	2003-12-01
US	51063473	R2XPUWYQIUBBP	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One Man's Quest To Make A Difference	In a world teeming with five billion souls, can one person make a difference? Tracy Kidder's latest book, \\"Mountains Beyond Mountains,\\" answers that question with a resounding \\"yes.\\" This is the story of Dr. Paul Farmer, described in the subtitle as \\"a man who would cure the world.\\" An audacious claim, to be sure, but one that Kidder backs up in the 300-plus pages that follow.<br /><br />Once again, Kidder has brought all his storytelling ability to bear on a saga that manages to illuminate the basic values we live by. Farmer had an unconventional childhood to say the least, having spent much of it living on a converted bus. In medical school, Farmer found a purpose for his life. The story first unfolds in the country where Farmer made his initial mark, and where his heart remains, Haiti. Kidder--and by extension, the reader--then travels with Farmer as his growing stature leads to his work expanding to Peru, Cuba and Russia. Although treating individual patients will always be a significant part of Farmer's lifework, it's clear that he also has a role to play on the world stage. His leadership and determination are being brought to bear on the frightening spread of MDR tuberculosis (MDR is shorthand for a multi-drug resistant strain of the disease.)<br /><br />Kidder is a truly outstanding observer and reporter. It's obvious he's managed to win the confidence of Farmer, his family, close associates and others in telling the story.  The author is an active observer and participant in the narrative, and while he guides the reader toward certain conclusions, he manages to avoid strident sermonizing or philosophizing. It shows a definite respect for the intelligence of the audience.<br /><br />Dr. Farmer may be known to some readers--he's a former recipient of a McArthur Foundation \\"genius grant\\" and has been interviewed on 60 Minutes. But whether this is an introduction or reintroduction, the man who emerges from these pages has a remarkable depth that has only been known to his intimates until now. All his superhuman qualities are there, along with a few very human traits as well. It will be a stone-hearted reader who isn't moved and angered by the inequalities that Dr. Farmer, through his patients, confronts every day of his life. And only that sort of person could fail to be inspired by the remarkable example of character, courage and commitment that this man lives each day of his life.--William C. Hallntil now. All his superhuman qualities are there, along with a few very human traits as well. It will be a stone-hearted reader who isn't moved and angered by the inequalities that Dr. Farmer, through his patients, confronts every day of his life. And only that sort of person could fail to be inspired by the remarkable example of character, courage and commitment that this man lives each day of his life.--William C. Hall	2003-11-24
US	51063473	R1WRAKGOQLNLL1	0684836106	663261597	Star Spangled Men: Americas Ten Worst Presidents	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Why Not....The Worst? (Presidents, that is)	Modesty is rarely a politician's strong suit. When he sought his country's highest office in 1976, former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter titled his campaign memoir \\"Why Not The Best?\\" The former president, no doubt, would not be happy to find himself included in this far less flattering work. In this witty and informative volume, author Nathan Miller focuses on Carter and nine other chief executives who he rates as the worst presidents in our history.<br /><br />Some of his choices--Andrew Johnson, U.S. Grant, Warren Harding, Benjamin Harrison, Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan--are pretty much consensus picks. The inclusion of Carter and Richard Nixon will no doubt stir the ire of their partisans.  And putting Calvin Coolidge and William Howard Taft on the \\"ten worst\\" list is definitely debatable. But that's part of the fun of this book. Miller writes with an obvious delight for his subject matter. Whether you agree with his conclusions or not, you will have to concede he lays out his arguments with a definite sense of conviction. Perhaps the greatest prospect for debate will be the epilogue, in which he argues that Thomas Jefferson and John Kennedy are our two most overrated chief executives.<br /><br />Although these tales of incompetence, corruption and failure might seem disheartening after a while, there's one positive thought the reader is left with when it's all over....we've survived this bunch, so we're likely to survive a few more turkeys!--William C. Hall	2003-11-20
US	51063473	R7H157N0H1KI2	0375406441	426375352	Brinkley's Beat: People, Places, and Events That Shaped My Time	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	David Brinkley's Final "Good Night"	Broadcast journalism lost one of its truly unique voices in 1998 when David Brinkley hung up his microphone for the last time. He had spent more than a half century in the nation's capital, observing and commenting on the powerful and the not-so-powerful, always with a slightly jaundiced eye and a true gift for slicing through the mire of pomposity and hypocrisy that so often threatens to bury Washington, D.C.<br /><br />In this book, Brinkley serves up a series of portraits of some of the most people he encountered in Washington; some of the most interesting places he visited; and some of the most memorable events. His word portraits are vivid, memorable and uniquely Brinkley. Among the people profiled is long-time FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. In Brinkley's view, Hoover was not quite the hero his supporters thought he was nor quite as evil as his detractors claimed him to be. The real tragedy of Hoover, in Brinkley's eyes, was that he stayed in power too long until he became irrelevant. Three presidents, five congressmen, journalist May Craig and Teamster's President Jimmy Hoffa round out Brinkley's gallery of people.<br /><br />Although Brinkley enjoyed his anchorman role, he says he also found it important to get out around the nation and the world from time to time to help maintain a sense of perspective. The travel documentary may be a staple of television today, but it was Brinkley and his NBC colleagues who invented the form in the 1950s. He tells that he always loved exploring the ordinary even as most of his colleagues were proccupied with the great events of the day. The travel documentaries, he suggest, helped convey the message that the news is more than just great events--it's also \\"about the way ordinary people go about the business of life.\\"<br /><br />Recollections of the political conventions he covered and the shock and turmoil that followed President Kennedy's assassination help to round out the book. In a final rumination on the role of the anchorman, Brinkley suggests the newsreader gives the days' events a unique presentation, mediated \\"through his own voice and character and personality.\\" Ultimately, that's my one regret about this otherwise enjoyable book. Brinkley on paper just doesn't quite pack the same punch as Brinkley on the air. I miss the voice, the face, the unique inflections. But I still appreciate this final farewell from one of the medium's true pioneers and innovators.<br /><br />Good night, David.--William C. Hallts the newsreader gives the days' events a unique presentation, mediated \\"through his own voice and character and personality.\\" Ultimately, that's my one regret about this otherwise enjoyable book. Brinkley on paper just doesn't quite pack the same punch as Brinkley on the air. I miss the voice, the face, the unique inflections. But I still appreciate this final farewell from one of the medium's true pioneers and innovators.    Good night, David.--William C. Hall	2003-11-18
US	51063473	R1WH0PKP3I7QEQ	0385508026	80550875	Shameless Exploitation in Pursuit of the Common Good: The Madcap Business Adventure by the Truly Oddest Couple	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Two Men, A Bottle Of Dressing, And A Dream	This is really several books between one set of covers. The entertaining, highly readable opening segment is the story of two men who didn't just break the rules to achieve business success: they took the rule book, set it on fire, and threw away the ashes. Anyone who has purchased \\"Newman's Own\\" products has probably noticed the label notation that all profits from the enterprise go to charity. But have you ever wondered how it all began?<br /><br />\\"Newman's Own\\" wasn't the product of blinding insight or grand design. The story opens in December, 1980, as actor Paul Newman and his neighbor and friend, writer A.E. Hotchner, are hard at work in Newman's barn bottling up a small batch of the salad dressing Newman had created. What had started as a gift for neighbors and friends evolved in a couple of years into a thriving enterprise. We learn how they rejected the advice of the supposed experts in the areas of marketing, production and distribution and forged ahead based on a combination of gut instinct and sometimes blind luck.<br /><br />As one Newman's Own product after another was added--pasta sauce, popcorn, lemonade--the growth of the enterprise steadily continued, much to the surprise and delight of the founders. For this allowed them to soar far higher with their philanthropic dreams than even they had envisioned.<br /><br />The tone of adventuresome good humor recedes in the second major section of the book. Although Newman and Hotchner had been, and continue to be supportive of established charities, both felt the need to do something more--and so the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp for children with life-threatening illnesses was born. The initial camp soon became a model for others around the country and the world. The plight of these children is exceptionally moving and sad--but the story of the camps is one of hope, love, and affirmation of life.<br /><br />There are several appendices, including a selection of letters from buyers of \\"Newman's Own.\\" (Several of these are also quoted in the text. My favorite was from the woman who thought the products were great, and had also heard that Mr. Newman had been in films. She wanted to know what these films were and if any were available on home video.) There are also letters from children and parents about the Hole in the Wall Camp experience, plus some prize winning recipes from a contest \\"Newman's Own\\" co-sponsored with Good Housekeeping Magazine.<br /><br />An entertaining and inspiring story.--William C. Halle text. My favorite was from the woman who thought the products were great, and had also heard that Mr. Newman had been in films. She wanted to know what these films were and if any were available on home video.) There are also letters from children and parents about the Hole in the Wall Camp experience, plus some prize winning recipes from a contest \\"Newman's Own\\" co-sponsored with Good Housekeeping Magazine.     An entertaining and inspiring story.--William C. Hall	2003-11-16
US	51063473	R2HQPB6SBKF81E	0765300141	633926874	Tyrus	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Ty Cobb's Baptism Of Fire	This novel offers the reader insight into the troubled mind and tortured soul of one of baseball's most remarkable players, Ty Cobb.  A brief introduction to Cobb for non-baseball fans: he began a 24-year-career in the major leagues in 1905 and went on to set more records than any other player. Until Pete Rose came along, he had the most hits of any player in history; Rickey Henderson has finally surpassed his record for most stolen bases. But Cobb's lifetime batting average of .367, highest ever, is surely unchallengable.<br />But there was more to Cobb than the numbers. He was the most aggressive and hated man ever to step onto a ballfield.  He was widely charged with being a dirty ballplayer--an accusation he fiercely denied until his dying day. An actual Cobb quote on the cover of the book accurately sums up his attitude toward the game: \\"Baseball is a red-blooded sport for red-blooded men. It's a struggle for supremacy, survival of the fittest.\\"<br />What was the wellspring of this passion? Cobb's life was truly the stuff of tragedy. In an afterword, Creevy describes Cobb as an American Hamlet, and the paralells are there. In the summer of 1905, Ty's second in professional ball, his mother shot and killed his father, who had been trying to enter their home through a second-story window. Amanda Cobb claimed that she thought William Cobb was a burglar. There was never any certain explanation as to why the senior Cobb attempted to enter the home in this way, though rumors of marital problems abounded.  Just days after this tragedy, Cobb was called to the big leagues for a trial with the Detroit Tigers. The following spring, Cobb received permission from the club to miss the opening week of training so that he could attend  his mother's trial on manslaughter charges.<br />Creevy's story is set entirely in these pivotal few months of Cobb's life. Using the historical record as his framework, he vividly brings to life the furies burning inside this supremely talented and supremely troubled young man. The reader travels with Cobb on his lonely journey north; experiences his anguish as his new teammates greet him with indifference or hostility; and feels his desperation as he struggles to establish his position in the game. In some cases, the author has used the novelist's license of invention; in other instances he's taken incidents from later in Cobb's career and moved them back to his rookie season. (This is explained in the afterword.)<br />The past couple of decades have brought some fine biographies of Cobb. But anyone who wants a more complete understanding of the man can also profit from this work. I was going to call this an outstanding baseball novel, but it's really about much more than the grand American game.--William C. Halland supremely troubled young man. The reader travels with Cobb on his lonely journey north; experiences his anguish as his new teammates greet him with indifference or hostility; and feels his desperation as he struggles to establish his position in the game. In some cases, the author has used the novelist's license of invention; in other instances he's taken incidents from later in Cobb's career and moved them back to his rookie season. (This is explained in the afterword.)<br />The past couple of decades have brought some fine biographies of Cobb. But anyone who wants a more complete understanding of the man can also profit from this work. I was going to call this an outstanding baseball novel, but it's really about much more than the grand American game.--William C. Hall	2003-11-16
US	51063473	R4R93LH7BVL2P	0870715593	379124336	Portland: People, Politics, and Power, 1851-2001	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	From Stumptown To The City Of Roses	This ambitious work covers more than a century and a half of the history of Portland, Oregon, from its days as a clearing in the Pacific Northwest wilderness to its present status as 28th largest city in the United States. (This review title, by the way, refers to two of the community's most prominent nicknames. \\"Stumptown\\" was an early reference to the number of trees that had to be felled to make room for the growing community; Portland lays claim to being the \\"city of roses\\" today by hosting the annual Rose Festival).<br /><br />Author Jewel Lansing knows the city government from the inside; she served a term as the elected auditor. Since her retirement from elective politics, she's devoted considerable energy to researching all facets of the city's history. The story unfolds chronologically, with the 42 men and two women who have served as Portland mayor providing the thread of continuity. The text weaves together the political, business and cultural forces that have shaped today's city.<br /><br />It's an often lively story. At the dawn of the twentieth century, Portland was known as a wide-open community where corruption and vice flourished. Men who ventured too close to the wrong areas of the waterfront would find themselves shanghaied for service aboard oceangoing ships. Lansing covers the wave of reform that swept the city and state shortly thereafter, and many of the great battles that dominated the ensuing decades, such as the fight over public vs. private power in the 1920s and the siting of freeways in the 1950s.<br /><br />Lansing's prose is clear, straightforward and rarely given to flights of fancy or rhetorical flourishes. Exhaustively researched, well-organized and profusely illustrated, this volume is among the best ever to appear telling the Portland story.--William C. Hall	2003-11-16
US	51063473	R3MGT7K2C8DU4Q	0399150919	533097786	What Ifs? of American History: Eminent Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Imaginative Speculation On Roads Not Taken	The introduction to one of the selections in this book suggests that it can be thought of as an \\"American Baedeker of roads that could have been, or almost were, taken.\\" That's as good a description of any of this third volume in the \\"What If?\\" series of historical speculations. Once more, editor Robert Cowley has assembled a panel of noted historians and novelists, who offer all sorts of intriguing possibilities--an America without a revolution; what might have happened if the plot to assassinate Lincoln had also succeeded in killing Vice President Johnson; what might have been the consequences if the US and Britain had actually gone to war over a South American boundary dispute in 1896; and what might have happened had John F. Kennedy not been murdered. The tone of the pieces varies from the tongue in cheek (speculation on what the true motives behind Senator Joseph McCarthy's anti-Communist crusade might have been) to the truly frightening (a picture of the world in 1972, ten years after the Cuban Missile Crisis leads to a widespread launch of nuclear weaponry).<br /><br />Playing \\"What If?\\" can be an interesting parlor game, but it can also help to illuminate the importance of real-life decisions. In the scenario of a world where both Lincoln and Johnson are killed, the resulting chaos triggers a decision by Robert E. Lee to endorse the wish of Jefferson Davis and many others in the Confederate military--not to lay down arms at that point, but to continue the fight as a guerrilla war, one that might have ended up costing countless more lives and prevented the nation's sectional breach from ever healing.<br /><br />With contributions from writers of the caliber of Caleb Carr, Robert Dallek, Tom Wicker and Jay Winick, the reader can be assured of an entertaining as well as a thought-provoking read. My one complaint is about the decision to include two pieces from the first book in the series, published in 1999. The jacket copy says these are pieces any American history collection would not be complete without. That strikes me as a rather thin excuse for the recycling. A big part of this book's audience will obviously be readers who have purchased the first two volumes, which are still easily available. If the publishers wanted to include some reprinted material, they could have easily mined the rich archives of the alternate history genre.--William C. Halln would not be complete without. That strikes me as a rather thin excuse for the recycling. A big part of this book's audience will obviously be readers who have purchased the first two volumes, which are still easily available. If the publishers wanted to include some reprinted material, they could have easily mined the rich archives of the alternate history genre.--William C. Hall	2003-11-10
US	51063473	R2GEX7NNNV0CO2	0743235533	644160981	The Greatest Minds and Ideas of All Time	Books	5	47	51	N	Y	A Great Introduction To The Wisdom Of Will Durant	It's said that good things come in small packages. Sometimes great things do, too. This book may be only 118 pages long, but between these covers you will find reasoned and inspired discussion of some of the people and works who have truly ennobled mankind.<br /><br />Will Durant, in partnership with his wife Ariel, spent his lifetime celebrating our highest and best achievements as a people. His essays on the greatest thinkers, greatest poets, best books, peaks of human progress and vital dates in world history should not only serve as a compact education, it should also fill you with a sense that for all of humanity's folly and waste, we have actually accomplished much that is worthwhile these past few thousand years. It's also very likely this book will spark within you a desire to know and to learn more about our rich heritage.<br /><br />My only wish for this book is that compiler John Little had included the dates these works were originally written. The chapter on the best books for an education, for example, while including many timeless classics, also includes some volumes which have been surpassed by later works--including the Durant's own magisterial lifework, the \\"Story of Civilization.\\" But this a minor quibble over what is on the whole an exceptional work.--William C. Hall	2003-11-09
US	51063473	R1QDTG9UE19RH0	0743226631	680489296	Floating Off the Page: The Best Stories from The Wall Street Journal's "Middle Column" (Wall Street Journal Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	News Stories Of Lasting Quality and Value	Most daily journalism is written, edited and published under strict deadline pressure, and is as perishable as the newsprint it's printed on. But there are exceptions. Give a talented reporter freedom of time and subject matter, and sometimes the result can soar close to, if not actually achieve, the quality of literature. Some great examples of this are collected in \\"Floating Off the Page.\\"<br /><br />The Wall Street Journal is primarily known as a financial newspaper. But since 1941, the middle column of its front page has been devoted to a feature on just about any subject under the sun. What happened to the mail destined for the World Trade Center after 9/11? Why were people attempting to translate the Bible into Klingon--and why was there a dispute over how to do this? Why was a man trying to develop a non-flatulent bean? This is only a quick sampling of some of the stories to be found in this offbeat, entertaining, informative volume.<br /><br />Some of these pieces are truly timeless, though most represent a snapshot of a past moment; all are worth another look. Keep it by your bedside or in your bathroom or carry it with you on your next trip. You'll find it a great one to browse and dip into again and again.--William C. Hall	2003-11-09
US	51063473	R1XYN1VL9EO1S6	0875952011	439759859	They Never Go Back to Pocatello: The Selected Essays of Richard Neuberger	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A First-Rate Selection Of The Works Of Neuberger	Oregon has had a long tradition of journalists also distinguishing themselves in the political field. Although Richard Neuberger's life and career were sadly cut short by cancer at the age of 47 in 1960, he managed to leave an impressive legacy of work. The almost three dozen pieces collected in this volume are remarable for their breadth of subject matter, depth of insight and clarity of expression. It's also impressive to consider the maturity Neuberger achieved at an early age. \\"The New Germany,\\" which appeared in The Nation in 1933 when Neuberger was only 20, established his reputation as a journalist and provided one of the first warnings that Hitler's regime would not be benign as some in the U.S. seemed to hope.<br /><br />The title comes from a selection that originally appeared in Neuberger's book Adventures in Politics. Noting the tendency of many who serve in congress never to return to their roots after their service ends, he quotes a Union Pacific agent in Idaho who told him a former Senator no longer lived there. \\"Those guys never come back to Pocatello.\\"<br /><br />Oregon-born political journalist Steve Neal, who selected and edited this collection, provides an introductory biographical essay. This is a fine presentation of the life and work of one of Oregon's most distinguished leaders in the mid-20th century.--William C. Hall	2003-11-09
US	51063473	R2RFOEXM95X8WN	087595118X	600661136	Vanport	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Spectacular Rise and Swift Destruction Of Vanport	On Memorial Day 1948 an Oregon city of more than 18,000 residents was swept away in a matter of hours. Manly Maben's \\"Vanport\\" does an outstanding job of telling the story of the swift rise and astonishing destruction of the largest World War II housing project in the United States.<br />Portland, Oregon was one of the communities that saw spectacular growth during the Second World War, mainly due to Henry Kaiser's decision to make it one of the principal locations for construction of Liberty Ships. Kaiser realized that the thousands of workers he was attracting to the community would need places to live, and so Kaiserville, eventually rechristened Vanport City, was born. The development was another marvel of the US's capacity to mobilize to meet the needs of the war effort. An entire city, complete with grocery stores, schools, a library, a post office and a police and fire station rose in less than a year's time.<br />The decision that doomed Vanport was made at its birth. The townsite selected was in a flood plain very close to the Columbia River. It was protected by a series of dikes, but when one of those dikes gave way at the end of May, 1948, the city vanished in a matter of hours. Although the death toll was never conclusively documented, at least 15 lives were lost.<br />Although Maben's book covers the destruction of Vanport quite extensively, it also tells much about the life of this wartime community. In some respects the ultimate company town, Vanport was progressive in many ways, such as offering one of the first 24-hour community day care programs. The city's life was brief, its impact on the region was lasting. Many of the displaced residents stayed on in the area. Vanport College eventually evolved into Portland State University. This remarkable story is well-illustrated throughout with photos from the Oregon Historical Society's files. \\"Vanport\\" is a valuable contribution to the history of the region.--William C. Hall	2003-11-08
US	51063473	R37PX9VQ2RA87O	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	For The Love Of Books And Reading	This book is a delight! Sara Nelson is a true lover of books, and that devotion animates the pages of this witty, entertaining journal. Nelson set out with a simple plan--to read one book a week for a year and then record her reactions. Like many of our best-laid plans, this one didn't work out as she had intended, but the randomness that sometimes took over her selection process makes the book all the more human, fun...and a great journey of discovery.<br /><br />We learn Nelson's reactions to books that she's reading for the first time and old favorites she's chosen to revisit. She's not shy about expressing her feelings about each book vividly, whether it was a can't-put-down page turner or a selection she never could connect with. Even though her primary interest seems to be fiction, while the majority of my reading is non-fiction, I knew as I sailed through these pages that I had encountered another true bibliophile.<br /><br />Only people like us worry about what it means when someone urges a book upon us and we hate it. Only a true book lover will obsess over a book loaned but never given back to seek its return--even decades later. Only a true book lover wonders what her or his reading habits are saying about themselves to others.<br /><br />In her prologue, Nelson tells us she's trying to record on paper something she's been doing for years in her mind: \\"matching up the reading experience with the personal one and watching where they intersect--or don't.\\" She succeeds admirably in this goal. Maybe those who don't have the book habit will never truly understand those of us who do...but if you have a spouse, parent, child, friend or other acquaintance who wonders why you spend so much time reading, you might tell them the answers are to be found between these pages.--William C. Hall	2003-11-08
US	51063473	R7M26XOHAE06C	0743254686	98660942	We Are Lincoln Men: Abraham Lincoln and His Friends	Books	5	20	20	N	Y	A Fresh Perspective From A Veteran Lincoln Scholar	Fans and students of the sixteenth president of the United States can doubly rejoice over this work. \\"We Are Lincoln Men\\" demonstrates that despite thousands of books about the Great Emancipator already being in print, there are still new approaches to be mined; and it also represents another contribution by the most accomplished Lincoln scholar of this era, Professor David Herbert Donald.<br /><br />Professor Donald has spent more than half a century studying Lincoln's life and times and is author of many books, including \\"Lincoln\\" (1995), widely regarded as the best one-volume life of the subject in decades. He's brought that lifetime of experience to this project, along with study and contemplation of the nature of friendship.  Perhaps part of the reason Lincoln remains an enigma and a subject of endless fascination and study is that he never fully revealed himself to any other human being. However, Donald has identified relationships which were pivotal at various points in Lincoln's life, and if not representing a marriage of equals, did at least offer this solitary man some of the benefits of close comradeship. Yet time, physical distance and political differences eventually eroded these relationships.<br /><br />The author examines his interactions with his one-time roommate, Joshua Speed; his long-time law partner, William Herndon; Illinois Senator Orville Browning; Secretary of State William Seward; and his personal secretaries, John Nicolay and John Hay. Each met differing needs for Lincoln at various times in his life. They served as sounding boards for Lincoln's ideas, provided him with comfort in times of grief, laughter in times of stress, and support in times of crisis. Yet even these men couldn't claim to fully know the great man. Herndon once claimed to have been able to \\"read his secrets and ambitions\\" but also described him as a \\"profound mystery.\\"<br /><br />In his conclusion, Donald briefly considers the possibility of whether having a close, intimate confidant in the early, difficult days of his presidency might have saved Lincoln some of his hesitancy and missteps. He suggests this might have been the case, but is no means certain; for while Lincoln took some time to find the means to his ultimate goals, he always held firm to his guiding principles--containing, and if possible, abolishing slavery, and preserving the union.<br /><br />A work of first-rate scholarship that's also a pleasure to read.--William C. Hallarly, difficult days of his presidency might have saved Lincoln some of his hesitancy and missteps. He suggests this might have been the case, but is no means certain; for while Lincoln took some time to find the means to his ultimate goals, he always held firm to his guiding principles--containing, and if possible, abolishing slavery, and preserving the union.    A work of first-rate scholarship that's also a pleasure to read.--William C. Hall	2003-11-08
US	51063473	R3EPJV1CTMISMM	0609610236	736759075	Hallowed Ground: A Walk at Gettysburg (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Physical and Spiritual Geography of Gettysburg	James McPherson's \\"Hallowed Ground\\" provides an admirably concise history of the most famous battle of the Civil War, and offers an excellent tour of that well-known, highly revered field. He takes the reader on a step-by-step journey across space and time, explaining why the battle was fought on this spot, what happened, what the ground looked like then, and what it looks like today. If you've ever been to Gettsyburg, this book will surely help to reinforce and unlock your memories; and it's certainly the next best thing to an actual visit if you've never been there. McPherson's gifts as a historian and a storyteller also help the reader to understand why this battle has claimed such a prominent place in the hearts and memories of generations of Americans. It's a lot to offer in 140 pages, but McPherson delivers on all he promises--and more.--William C. Hall	2003-11-08
US	51063473	R2MG6M5ZWCWDT5	0142003638	34572369	Spit in the Ocean, No. 7: All About Ken Kesey	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A Wonderful Celebration Of The Late, Great Ken Kesey	Do you love the writings of Ken Kesey? Buy this.<br /><br />Do you want to relive a magic moment in the past, or want a better understanding of what the spirit of the 60s was all about? Buy this!<br /><br />Do you want to laugh, cry, and have a great time? Buy this!!<br /><br />Spit in the Ocean #7 brings to a conclusion a project Ken Kesey started more than a quarter of a century ago. In 1974, he laid out plans to self-publish seven issues of a literary magazine by this title, each issue to have a different theme and editor. By 1981, six issues had appeared, but the leader of the Merry Pranksters was ready to move on to other ventures.<br /><br />Now, two year's after Kesey's departure at age 66, his friend Ed McClanahan has edited that final issue of \\"Spit,\\" appropriately all about the man who gave the world so much joy. There are contributions from famous names like Hunter S. Thompson, Tom Wolfe and Larry McMurtry, but there's also lots from others who were touched by Kesey's boundless spirit and zest for life.<br /><br />There are letters, interviews, memoirs, song lyrics, photos and more between these covers. I bet Kesey would have loved it. If they could have somehow included a DVD and scratch-and-sniff, he would have loved it even better. This book does a wonderful service in keeping alive the spirit of the writer, painter, filmmaker, jester, teacher, activist, wrestler, leader and lover of life named Ken Kesey.--William C. Hall	2003-11-07
US	51063473	R3MS1N6Q4A3I0C	1586481878	70481652	One-Car Caravan: On the Road with the 2004 Democrats Before America Tunes In	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Democrats, Live and Unplugged	Walter Shapiro tells us in this book that when his mother placed her copy of Theodore White's \\"The Making of the President 1960\\" in his hands, it was a life-changing event. Now, more than four decades later, Shapiro has become White's spiritual heir with this book. White's great innovation was to be the first one on the ground, on the road and in the air with the men who were in pursuit of the presidency. Naturally, he spawned generations of imitators, who had the ability to jump on the campaign bus early but lacked White's gifts for insight and analysis.<br /><br />In \\"One Car Caravan,\\" we find Shapiro on the campaign trail with the leading Democratic contenders from mid-2002 to mid-2003, a time when they were only attracting sporadic coverage in the national media, and more importantly, a time when the handlers and professionals had not completely gained the upper hands in their campaigns. As a result, we see John Kerry, Joseph Lieberman, Howard Dean, Dick Gephart and John Edwards in their homes, in their offices, in the living rooms of New Hampshire Democrats, appearing as supplicants before possible donors--in short, at a time when their candidacies still have some spontaneity left in them. We gain the benefit of Shapiro's insights honed through many decades of political reporting, and it's leavened by flashes of his gift for humor as well. (Once Al Gore removed himself from the race, clearing the way for the proudly Jewish Lieberman's candidacy, Shapiro observed that \\"The yarmulke was in the ring.\\")<br /><br />Supporters of Carol Mosley Braun, Al Sharpton and Dennis Kucinich probably won't find much to like about this book, as Shapiro dismisses them as vanity-driven candidates \\"...who clutter up a presidential race that they have no chance of winning.\\" But after 40 years on the trail, Shapiro is calling them like he sees them. He offers what he admits is a very personal view of these potential presidents. But it seems to be based on an honest evaluation, based on his own values--most important among them, a belief in the value of this process, as strange, expensive, lengthy and cluttered as it might seem at times.es--most important among them, a belief in the value of this process, as strange, expensive, lengthy and cluttered as it might seem at times.	2003-11-07
US	51063473	R206BEF3EDSV7C	0786411899	320101357	Close Shave: The Life and Times of Baseball's Sal Maglie	Books	2	9	9	N	Y	Great Subject, Poor Execution	Let's start with the good points about this book. The author's choice of a subject--pitcher Sal Maglie--is a fine one. His research was obviously exhaustive, as he seems to have documented every game Maglie ever pitched in the minor leagues, major leagues, Mexican League and winter leagues.<br /><br />Now for the faults. The writing is truly poor. There are spelling errors, grammar mistakes, sentence fragments, run-on-sentences and more. This, combined with a game-by-game approach to telling Maglie's story made the book a chore for me to wade through. I say that with a sense of sadness, because I can tell how much effort and devotion to the subject went into this book.<br /><br />Sal Maglie seemed to be on a sure track for a major league career, but the combination of World War II and a sojurn in the Mexican League (then an outlaw league in the eyes of organized ball) which led to his suspension for 2 1/2 seasons left him a marginal rookie prospect at age 33. Yet a combination of skill and determination allowed him to become one of the dominant pitchers in the National League during the 1950s. Even when age and injuries seemed to have caught up with the man known as \\"The Barber,\\" he managed more than one dramatic and heroic comeback. It's a great baseball story, and a great human story that deserves a better telling. I think there's still the core of a good book in this manuscript, crying to get out.--William C. Hall	2003-11-05
US	51063473	R1PIND9RT5W8T0	075955028X	592415123	Feeding the Green Monster: One Man's Season at Fenway Park	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	A Passionate Story About A Season With The Red Sox	Rob Neyer lived many a fan's dream during the 2000 major league season when he attended all 81 home games of the Boston Red Sox at their historic home, Fenway Park. But that wasn't the full extent of his baseball watching that summer. He managed to push his season total higher still with games in Seattle, New York, Kansas City and Pawtucket. The book that resulted, \\"Feeding the Green Monster,\\" is Rob's diary of that busy season. We get plenty of baseball between these covers--and also a lot about Rob's life.<br /><br />Neyer is a columnist for ESPN.com, and his knowledge of, and passion for the game shine throughout the text. He's also quite eloquent and passionate about Fenway itself, and makes a strong case why this historic ballyard, the oldest left in the major leagues, should not be prematurely retired. One of the highlights for me was the story of how Rob and a friend managed to stay after the end of a game and spend the night in Fenway, exploring every nook, cranny and crevice. It's going to be a long time before anyone can write this way about any of the current crop of \\"retro\\" ballparks, and I can never, ever imagine a fan feeling the same way about one of those cookie-cutter stadiums that proliferated in the 60s and 70s.<br /><br />Sadly, Neyer didn't have much of a season to write about. The BoSox made a promising start that year, remained in contention for their division title for most of the summer, and were in the hunt for the wild card slot almost to the end, but once again fell short against the Yankees. A classic pennant race instead of a sad fade would have made for a more gripping text.<br /><br />Some of the other reviewers seemed to find the book a bit too self-involved, but such is the nature of a dairy. I had a different take...I found myself thinking of Rob as something of a kindred spirit, and wishing I could go to a game with him sometime. Anyone who laments over the fact that too many great books are published to keep up with in a year, let alone a lifetime; and who had such a passionate love for this great American sport is going to rate very highly in my personal book.--William C. Hallwho had such a passionate love for this great American sport is going to rate very highly in my personal book.--William C. Hall	2003-11-05
US	51063473	RRNDH8IDM0OYO	0300101716	143729112	Inventing A Nation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson	Books	5	103	117	N	N	Vidal's Vivid Portrait Of The Nation's Nativity	This is a two-tiered ranking...five stars for Vidalphiles, and three stars for other readers. If you revel in Gore Vidal's witty, often acerbic take on our present-day society, you should find this book a delight.  Otherwise, you will probably find it infuriating in places...but at least it's never tedious. On display throughout this book is Vidal's great gift to turn two-dimensional historic personages back into three-dimensional figures of flesh and blood.<br />Vidal's narrative opens in the fall of 1786 as George Washington prepares to accept the call to lead the constitutional convention. This is a Washington, though revered by his countrymen, who finds himself in serious financial straits. The steady flow of visitors to Mount Vernon is eroding his resources--and demands for money from his mother are making things worse. Of all the Founding Fathers, Vidal perhaps best succeeds in offering a vibrant portrait of this proud, sometimes vain man, always conscious of his unique position in the new nation, sometimes struggling with the mantle of leadership that has been placed on his shoulders but never turning away from it.<br />The subtitle of the book is &quot;Washington, Adams, Jefferson,&quot; and while Adams also emerges as the stubborn, resolute leader who was fully aware of his place in Washington's shadow; and Jefferson lives and breathes as the restless, shambling, somewhat abstract and overtalkative intellectual he must have appeared to his contemporaries, other founders rise from these pages with equal vividness, some for relatively brief cameos, such as Franklin, and others who play larger roles, such as Hamilton.<br />But Washington is at the heart of this story, as he was at the difficult, sometimes tortured enterprise that was involved in building a new nation. By now, we seem to have moved past the vision of the founders as a group of divinely inspired men who were the 18th century counterpart of Moses, accepting the wisdom of the heavens writ large on stone tablets. Vidal vividly reminds us just how much these men, for all their great gifts, were often groping almost blindly while a combination of wisdom with generous portions of luck and circumstance allowed them to forge something that still inspires awe more than two centuries later.<br />Washington's death in 1799 closes the book, and this is fitting, for it also marked the passing of the founders' era. If you can deal with (or agree with!) Vidal's assaults on our &quot;national security state&quot; of the present day, you should find this a vibrant, engaging read.stone tablets. Vidal vividly reminds us just how much these men, for all their great gifts, were often groping almost blindly while a combination of wisdom with generous portions of luck and circumstance allowed them to forge something that still inspires awe more than two centuries later.<br />Washington's death in 1799 closes the book, and this is fitting, for it also marked the passing of the founders' era. If you can deal with (or agree with!) Vidal's assaults on our &quot;national security state&quot; of the present day, you should find this a vibrant, engaging read.	2003-11-04
US	51063473	RJT3QK9R8JOXT	030908881X	311025799	The Anthrax Letters: A Medical Detective Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Gripping, Moving, Important....A Very Significant Book	One great terrorism event of 2001, the attacks of September 11th, remains seared into America's national memory...as well it should. But another deadly deed, which unfolded just a few days later, seems to be rapidly receding from the foreground: the anthrax letters. In this powerful new book, Dr. Leonard Cole persuasively lays out a case why this act of bioterrorism should not be forgotten.<br /><br />Dr. Cole's book is, as the subtitle suggests, a true medical detective story. It took great insight and certain leaps of faith for the first health professionals who confronted this situation to recognize it for what it was. Anthrax in humans was, and fortunately, is, quite rare. And although there had been hoax letters previously claiming to contain anthrax, it had never actually been transmitted by the U.S. Mail before this incident.<br /><br />Thanks to exhaustive interviews with the professionals, survivors and families of the victims, Cole is able to present an almost minute-by-minute account of the appearance of the disease, the search for answers, and the aftermath. Although the public health community was the target of much criticism in the hysteria following in the immediate wake of the event, Cole suggests, and rightly so, I believe, that most of the people are truly unsung heroes.<br /><br />Beyond being a record of a deadly crisis, Cole poses some important questions. Are we better prepared for the next bioterrorist event? The answer is a qualified yes. The scientific and health communities seem to be better informed, and have established important networks of communication and cooperation. But what of the public at large? Here, the signs are not so hopeful.<br /><br />I must praise this book for another reason: its readability. Cole lays out the science in terms that are crystalline clear. He provides just enough details about people and places to make them living, flesh and blood individuals, not lifeless characters on a page. And I'm sure he practiced admirable restraint in distilling what must have been a massive amount of research into a concise package. Too many writers these days seem to be falling victim to the \\"file dump\\" phenomenon--wanting to make sure all their hard work finds its way between covers.<br /><br />A worthwhile and important book.--William C. Hallwhat must have been a massive amount of research into a concise package. Too many writers these days seem to be falling victim to the \\"file dump\\" phenomenon--wanting to make sure all their hard work finds its way between covers.    A worthwhile and important book.--William C. Hall	2003-10-22
US	51063473	R1MDXAXC15D3RI	0618343989	174431706	Negro President: Jefferson and the Slave Power	Books	5	95	106	N	N	Did Freedom's Champion Have A Moral Blind Spot?	Garry Wills reminds us at the beginning of this book that he's previously written two volumes that praised aspects of Jefferson's life and work. He insists he's still an admirer of Jefferson, though he concedes readers may differ with that claim after they finish this book. The reason? In these chapters, Wills lays out a persuasive case that Jefferson's presidency was largely shaped by the \\"slave power\\"--the constitutional provision requiring that each slave be counted as three-fifths of a person in determining congressional representation.<br /><br />Without the \\"slave power,\\" Jefferson would have never won the presidency in 1800. Wills examines how Jefferson's determination to preserve and extend the rule of the slave states drove many of his most important decisions. The acquisition of the Louisiana Territory was seen as an opportunity to add more slave territory to the emerging nation. The embargo, one of Jefferson's most controversial acts, seems to make more sense when considered in the light of its positive benefits for the agrarian south and negative impacts on the commerce of the northern states. Even the selection of the site for the nation's capitol, Wills argues, was heavily influenced by the slaveholder's desire for a setting where their values and way of life would be embraced instead of shunned.<br /><br />Jefferson's questionable political and moral decisions were not made without opposition. Wills sheds the spotlight on, and helps to rehabilitate Timothy Pickering, secretary of war under Washington, secretary of state under Adams, and consistent critic of Jefferson during his years in congress. After Pickering passed from the scene, John Quincy Adams emerged as the chief moral spokesman against the influence of slavery.<br /><br />To dismiss this book as mere Jefferson-bashing would be facile. As Wills himself notes, though Jefferson devoted much energy to preserving the slave power, he was not the worst offender in this regard; and he did not argue, as some did, that slavery itself was benign. Rather, he says, \\"Jefferson belonged to that large class of southerners--including the best of them, men like Washington and Madison--who knew that slavery was evil, but felt they could not cut back on the evil without cutting the ground out from under them.\\"<br /><br />What Wills is asking us to do, I believe, is to set aside our prejudices, pro and con, and re-examine this nation's formative years in the harsh but honest light of how they were corrupted by slavery; and how even today, we are paying the price for the immoral bargains that men of good faith and character believed they were required to make.--William C. Hallery itself was benign. Rather, he says, \\"Jefferson belonged to that large class of southerners--including the best of them, men like Washington and Madison--who knew that slavery was evil, but felt they could not cut back on the evil without cutting the ground out from under them.\\"    What Wills is asking us to do, I believe, is to set aside our prejudices, pro and con, and re-examine this nation's formative years in the harsh but honest light of how they were corrupted by slavery; and how even today, we are paying the price for the immoral bargains that men of good faith and character believed they were required to make.--William C. Hall	2003-10-20
US	51063473	R23J2TX57MJBVM	0809071703	460430619	Murdering McKinley: The Making of Theodore Roosevelt's America	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Two Deaths Of President William McKinley	In this highly original, thought-provoking book, Eric Rauchaway examines the trends that shaped a new America at the dawn of the 20th century. The assassination of President William McKinley is a pivotal event in Rauchaway's interpretation of the era,  for he makes it clear that both the man who gunned McKinley down, Leon Czolgosz, and the man who ascended to the presidency in McKinley's place, Theodore Roosevelt, were shaped by those same forces of change. In the introduction, he boldly declares, \\"In a sense therefore, McKinley had two killers: the man who shot him and destroyed his body, and the man who succeeded him and erased his legacy.\\"<br /><br />Rauchaway's narrative begins with McKinley's murder and its immediate aftermath, including Roosevelt's ascencion to the presidency and Czolgosz's unusally swift trial, conviction and execution. He makes a convicing case that the leaders of the time wanted to brand the assassin as a calculating foreign anarchist, then dispose of him as quickly as possible. (And as thoroughly as possible. Acid was poured into the grave to destroy his body after burial.)<br /><br />In 1902, an alienist (pyschologist), Dr. Vernon Briggs of Boston, went in search of answers to the deeper questions about Czolgosz's motives and sanity. Rauchaway vividly recreates his journeys to the places Czolgosz lived, worked, traveled and was imprisoned. What emerges is a picture of a man far removed from the \\"official\\" portrait that has persisted for more than a century. Czolgosz, who was in fact American-born, had tried to live out the dream of economic success, but instead fell victim to the upheavals of the 1890s. And while he may have voiced an interest in anarchism as a political idealogy, it almost certainly never went beyond that.<br /><br />So the assassin instead can be seen as one of many victims of the social and economic forces that were shaping the country at this great turning point. Those same forces also opened the doors for Theodore Roosevelt to steer the country in directions far removed from his predecessor's path. Yet, a dozen years later, as Roosevelt took a bullet in a failed assassination attempt during his own bid to return to power, it became clear that the tides of history had even pushed him aside.--William C. Hallntry in directions far removed from his predecessor's path. Yet, a dozen years later, as Roosevelt took a bullet in a failed assassination attempt during his own bid to return to power, it became clear that the tides of history had even pushed him aside.--William C. Hall	2003-10-18
US	51063473	R3JBFCMCBNWHSV	038550781X	202126863	Looking for My Country: Finding Myself in America	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Long Search For The Place Called Home	To some degree, we are all products of place...even those of us who spend significant portions of our lives moving from one place to another. In this slim volume, veteran journalist Robert MacNeil recounts his growing-up years in Canada, his move to Britain in the mid-twenties for work in print and broadcast outlets, his return trip across the pond to work for NBC, and eventual teaming with Jim Lehrer for public television's evening news program. MacNeil recalls the great events of the era that he witnessed from a newsman's front seat, including the building of the Berlin Wall, JFK's assassination, and the destruction of the World Trade Center....and also shares the joys and heartaches of family life through the decades. But the dominant theme in this volume is MacNeil's long search for a place that he truly could call home. His decision to become a citizen of the United States, after more than three decades of residency here, is explained with MacNeil's usual insight, warmth and grace.--William C. Hall	2003-10-18
US	51063473	R3S3YXPKWSDGBF	0684804158	247100270	Curse of Rocky Colavito: A Loving Look at a Thirty-Year Slump	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Through Thick And Thin (Mostly Thin) With The Indians	Failure on the baseball field may not be enjoyable for a team's fans. But it can often produce some funny, poignant literature. Terry Pluto's \\"The Curse of Rocky Colavito\\" is a great example of the genre. Pluto is well-qualified to offer this tale of the Tribe from the mid-50s to the mid-90s. He grew up as a fan, then covered the team as a professional sportswriter. (Cliff Johnson once told him, \\"I've been ripped by better writers than you.\\") Anyone who watched as Herb Score was injured, Rocky Colavito was traded, and the team settle into a long era of mediocrity, will no doubt find a special resonance in these pages. Who can forget the immortal Jack Kralick, Joe Azcue or Chico Salmon? Or in more recent times, Super Joe Charboneau? Pluto has a wonderful gift for finding the humor or pathos in the story of the Tribe in this era. It's a worthwhile read for anyone who enjoys good baseball yarns.--William C. Hall	2003-10-11
US	51063473	RL4WFUXRB15K2	1582617066	925656537	Tales from Oregon State Sports	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Must For Fans Of The Orange and Black	\\"Tales from Oregon State Sports\\" offers a kalidescopic look at the rich, often colorful history of sports at Oregon State University. Co-authors Jeff Welsch and George P. Edmonston Jr. have done a wonderful job of bringing to light some of the lesser-known moments in the OSU heritage, but they've also managed to make some of the more familiar legends (such as the fabled \\"Giant Killers\\" OSU football team of 1967) seem fresh.<br /><br />Another excellent aspect of the volume is that the authors have sought to portray the total spectrum of athletics over the past century-plus on the Corvallis campus. Even though the basketball and football programs have gained the most fame, there's also plenty in here about wrestling, baseball, women's sports, track and field, and more.<br /><br />As is always the case, the best sports stories are human stories. In this volume, you will become better acquainted with legendary coaches like Slats Gill, Dee Andros, Ralph Miller and Knute Rockne. (Yes, Rockne. Read the book and you will learn why Rockne was a member of OSU's summer faculty for three years). You will also get to know outstanding players and some very faithful fans.<br /><br />This book is an absolute must for Beaver fans, and should be enjoyed by anyone with an interest in the history of college athletics.--William C. Hall	2003-10-11
US	51063473	R2QJSOJ8EL4XII	0380800918	444756650	Almost America: From the Colonists to Clinton: a "What If" History of the U.S.	Books	3	1	1	N	N	What Might Have Been...But Wasn't	Steve Tally's \\"Almost America\\" explores one of the oldest questions of all--\\"What if?\\" From the dawn of colonial America on through the impeachment trial of Bill Clinton, Tally offers a chapter exploring pivotal moments in the nation's history, then follows up with a speculation on how it might have turned out had things taken a different course. The selections all fall within the range of the plausible--there are no aliens, time travel or magic involved in these tales. Thus, we learn what might have happened if Richard Nixon had chosen not to resign, if Robert E. Lee had accepted Lincoln's offer to lead U-S forces in the Civil War, if Samuel Morse had given up trying to perfect the telegraph...the list of ideas shows a real breadth of scope and imagination.<br /><br />Unfortuately, Tally's vision seems to fall short when he considers the possibilities of what might have been. Most of these sketches are just too skimpy to be fully satisfying. Perhaps fewer chapters, with more fully realized concepts, might have produced a more satisfying volume.--William C. Hall	2003-10-11
US	51063473	RD9TKIYV13I7T	1931643229	315202758	A Disturbance of Fate	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	A Look At A World That Might Have Been	Mitchell J. Freedman's \\"A Disturbance of Fate,\\" which tells the tale of a world in which Robert Kennedy was not assassintated in June of 1968, but went on to serve two terms in the presidency, is a different sort of alternate history book. The standard formula, as typified by Robert Harris' \\"Fatherland,\\" or Harry Turtledove's works, highlights the stories of fictional characters, usually minor players in the sweep of history, but whose lives are shaped by the changed circumstances of their worlds.<br /><br />Freedman's book reads more like a scholar's history of the RFK administration. He goes into impressive depth to describe the changed politics and culture of a world in which RFK had lived. The breadth and depth of his study is quite impressive, as he lays out a very different United States and a radically changed world. The changes turn out mostly, but not exclusively, to be for the better.<br /><br />In these pages, you will find out how a President RFK quickly disentangled the nation from the Vietnam conflict; how his administration nurtured a renewal of the labor movement; how young radicals who fought the war in the real-life timeline instead channeled their energies into labor organizing and national service in what the author calls the \\"RFK timeline.\\" There are more than a few surprises...such as the Republican party's emergence as the champion of legal abortion and gay rights while the Democrats become more conservative on social issues.<br /><br />I did have one quarrel with this otherwise excellent book. In an attempt, no doubt, to give the dialogue a more realistic feel, Freedman has President Johnson and RFK Vice President Ralph Yarbrough speaking in pronounced southern drawls; Chicago's Mayor Daley is a classic \\"dese and dose\\" sort of guy. Yet President Kennedy never once refers to \\"Cuber\\" or pursuing policies with \\"vigah.\\" Hmmm....<br /><br />But that's a minor annoyance in what is an exhaustively researched, deeply felt story. Anyone with an interest in the politics of the sixties, and especially those who admired RFK and continue to feel a sense of loss at his senseless murder, should find this to be a thought-provoking read.--William C. Halls, and especially those who admired RFK and continue to feel a sense of loss at his senseless murder, should find this to be a thought-provoking read.--William C. Hall	2003-10-06
US	51063473	R80XZOOXEFIO6	1568582684	273005353	The Player: Christy Mathewson, Baseball, and the American Century	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	One Of Baseball's Greats Gets His Due	It's been almost 90 years since Christy Mathewson last threw a pitch in a major league baseball game, and more than 75 years since his untimely death from tuberculosis. Yet time has left his on-the-field achievements and his greater legacy undiminished. His 373 career wins are still third highest in major league history. In this slim, gracefully written volume Philip Seib explores not only Mathewson's role in the game, but in the context of the larger society as well.<br /><br />Professional baseball at the dawn of the 20th century was still seen as a haven for rowdies. The college-educated Mathewson represented a new standard, one in harmony with President Theodore Roosevelt's affirmation of the active life. As America moved toward involvement in World War I under the idealistic Woodrow Wilson, Mathewson's willingness to serve was once again in synch with the mood of the era. When Matty stood against the corruption that infected the game in the late teens, it was a precursor to greed and scandals that seemed to dominate national life in the 1920s.<br /><br />Seib's book is a worthy tribute to a great player, and more significantly, a great man.--William C. Hall	2003-10-04
US	51063473	R15Z389UKJVP7A	0393057569	847757849	An Open Book: Coming of Age in the Heartland	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Warm Affirmation Of Life and The Joy Of Learning	Michael Dirda's memoir of his growing up years is very personal, highly engaging, and by turns, wistful, sad and funny. We follow the Pulitzer Prize-winning critic from his birth in an Ohio mill town to the middle of his years at Oberlin College. His family, teachers and friends play significant roles in the story, but so do the books that fueled his imagination and shaped his destiny.<br />In an environment that was indifferent, if not hostile to books, Dirda discovered their ability to entertain, educate and uplift. His story is an affirmation of the argument that it doesn't matter what a child reads in the early years, just so long as he or she reads. Dirda quickly graduates from comics, Big Little Books and the like to more substantial fare. In fact, the list of classics in the back of the book that he had read by the end of high school would put most adult readers to shame. Though reading is at the heart of the story, there's a lot of classic childhood reminiscing here, including memorable incidents like his attempt to run away from home at age 14 and his awkward early journeys into the world of dating and romance.<br />This is a personal story that should have wide appeal, though I bet it will have a special resonance for those (such as this reviewer) who felt a little out of the maintstream during their growing up years because they &quot;always had their nose in a book.&quot;	2003-10-04
US	51063473	R2SFAZBPLNKBDL	1580631487	285939868	Salinger: A Biography	Books	3	14	15	N	N	The Mystery Of J.D. Salinger	Many of those who have commented on this work find author Paul Alexander to be hostile to his subject. That's not my read of it; to me, he seems more to be puzzled and saddened by the way Salinger has chosen to live his life. It could be argued that Alexander doesn't really understand Salinger; but can anyone really claim otherwise?<br /><br />With Salinger, his family and past associates unwilling to cooperate on any kind of biography, Alexander has had to make do with the rather skimpy public record the world's most famous recluse has left behind. He seems to have put together as full a life story as possible, given these limitations. The perception of hostility may come from the fact that Alexander quotes extensively from the reaction of critics to Salinger's work--and sadly, for those who love it (including this reviewer)--the majority of the critics were negative about it. And Salinger's hostility to most of those in the publishing world is well-documented.<br /><br />Perhaps Alexander's most intriguing contention is that Salinger, for all his public protestations of a desire to be left alone, actually wants the attention he generates. He says it's kind of a cat-and-mouse game with the public designed to maintain interest in his works.<br /><br />If you're interested in learning as much detail as you can about Salinger's childhood, education, romances, buisiness dealings, and the like, this is probably the best book we'll have for some time.--William C. Hall	2003-10-04
US	51063473	R21WQQMXPYNW96	1400047838	140421558	Fugitives and Refugees: A Walk in Portland, Oregon (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny, Personal, Informative..A Unique View of The Rose City	I was born in Portland and spent my first 27 years there, but I guess I lived something of a sheltered life. Sure, I'd been to Powells Book's (many times), to Darcelle's (once) and had seen the 24-hour Church of Elvis, but in this book, Chuck Palahniuk introduced me to a lot of Portland I never knew. Oh, what I was missing!<br />In a coversation with writer Katherine Dunn at the beginning of the book, she shares with Palahniuk a theory I've heard others advance--that the city (and this region) attracts more than its share of offbeat folks because of its geographic position at the western end of the continent. People who are dissatisfied or don't feel like they fit in where they are have a tendency to keep moving. By the time they reach Oregon, they've run out of places to go. It makes sense to me, and seems as good an explanation as any for the whacky, wonderful subculture Chuck celebrates in this book. It's a unique blend of travel guide and personal memoir, and while it won't replace the traditional city handbooks, it's a great supplement for anybody wanting to explore the city's heart, soul, and sometimes seamy underside in a little more depth.	2003-09-30
US	51063473	R3N03RYFYRYOL7	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Message Of Hope In A Time Of Despair	Anyone who surveys the global situation in these early years of the 21st century could logically feel a sense of despair if they dream of world peace. Despite years of effort, peace in the Middle East seems a more distant goal then ever; and the United States finds itself embattled in a global struggle with radical forces who claim to be guided by tenets of their faith.<br />In this dark time, Bruce Feiler's &quot;Abraham&quot; can serve as a beacon of hope and light. In this slim, gracefully written volume, Feiler invites us along on his personal search for Abraham--the father figure for the three great faiths in the world today. He chronicles how little is actually known about the man--and how this has allowed each faith to mold an Abraham who seems suited to his needs. Sadly, he points out how first Christians and then Moslems at first tried to use Abraham as a figure of inclusion and a bridge with the other religions, but then evolved toward an exclusionist view that only embraced their own version of the prophet.<br />Although his ideals shine brightly in this text, Feiler is not looking at the world through a false prisim; he readily acknowledges the violence and tensions that radiate from the bithplace of these faiths--Jerusalem--and around the globe. But he holds out hope that despite these setbacks, the three faiths are evolving toward an inclusive view of each other, and makes an eloquent case that Abraham can be the foundation on which to build that new understanding.	2003-09-30
US	51063473	R2CCQJMT8VRSZ1	0394536487	113206874	The Spooky Art: Some Thoughts on Writing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nuggets Of Wisdom From A Master Of The Art	Like most of Mailer's non-fiction, this book is as much about him as it is about his ostensible subject...which is not a bad thing if you enjoy Mailer, as I do. Published on his 80th birthday, this work does contain some new material, but for the most part it's a collection of Mailer's thoughts on the subject over several decades...sources include his earlier books, speeches, prefaces to others' books and interview transcripts. The result is somewhat of a grab-bag approach, but it's clear Mailer worked to achieve some thematic unity in weaving the pieces together.<br />In his introduction, Mailer cautions that this is not meant to be a how-to guide for the beginner; rather, his target is the more experienced writer who is seeking avenues to advance to a higher level. But, as he also suggests, it's worthwhile reading for anyone looking for insights into the creative process. He goes slightly far afield at times, with digressions on journalism and films, among others, but suggests fairly that these are secondary or alternate avenues often pursued by those wedded to the literary art.<br />I hope I've been able to do justice to &quot;The Spooky Art.&quot; In these pages, Mailer calls reviewing a &quot;primitive art&quot; so I'm not sure that I have...but I've given it my best. And I think that's all the old fighter could ultimately ask for.	2003-09-23
US	51063473	R1ZY2V83B1U2ZZ	0374236488	961531135	Positively Fifth Street: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Talk About Sensory Overload.....Wow!	What a wild, rollicking ride of a book! We jump right in with a detailed re-creation of the murder of an heir to one of Las Vegas' great fortunes. It's not just any murder...not when sex, handcuffs, Xanax, heroin and a turkey baster are involved. The victim is Ted Binion, son of Benny Binion, founder of Binion's Horseshoe, the last family-owned casino in Vegas. His accused killers are his live-in girlfriend and one of his employees.<br /><br />Call it fate, or perhaps irony, but it turns out that the conclusion of the Binion murder trial will overlap with the 2000 World Series of Poker, which is the Horseshoe's signature event and the richest, most prestigious of the many stops on the big money poker circuit. Enter our hero/author, who is also an avid amateur player. He wrangles an assignment from Harper's magazine to cover the tournament and the trial.<br /><br />Although the parallel is inexact, McManus then decides to pull a George Plimpton and use his advance from Harper's as seed money to enter the tournament itself. Only through actual experience, he reasons, can he accurately convey the full sensory impact of this adrenaline-charged event. He resolves to school himself in the subtleties of the no-limit game, though he entertains no illusions about his chances against the experienced pros he'll be facing.<br /><br />Without giving anything away, it's fair to say that a combination of luck and skill carry Jim much farther along the road to glory than even he could have imagined in the beginning. And when the trial concludes almost simultaneously with the final hands of the tournament, the whole story seems to come together in one big, gaudy package.<br /><br />Along the way, McManus manages to weave in the history of poker, even of the deck of cards itself, autobiographical slices, observations on the poetry of Sylvia Plath....So, this is a book about poker, and about sex. It's also about life, death, love, lust, greed, hopes and dreams....in short, it's about just about everything that makes us who we are.us who we are.	2003-09-23
US	51063473	R1O41TAOXCR5T0	0670032468	896851657	Love Me	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Funny, Melancholy, Strange Book	I wanted to like &quot;Love Me&quot;...I even wanted to love it, as I have loved just about everything I've read of Keillor's up to now. But I found myself too confused by the shifts in tone and too puzzled about what it really was supposed to be all about to form any kind of definitive opinion. Is it a rumination on life, love and loss? A hilarious black comedy? A moderately-disguised autobiography? After finishing all 272 pages, I'm just not sure.<br />&quot;Love Me&quot; follows the misadventures of Larry Wyler, a writer from Minnesota who publishes a successful novel, leaves his wife and world behind, and answers the siren song of the big city...New York. He buys an apartment overlooking Central Park and goes to work at a topsy-turvy version of the New Yorker that seems mainly designed to skewer the raft of New Yorker insider books we've been flooded with over the past couple of decades.<br />Larry commits adultery, but doesn't seem to know why; he commits murder (sort of), but doesn't have to deal with any of the consequences; and in the end, we're left with....what? It didn't surprise me that when Larry imagined his funeral, he specified a reading from Ecclesiasties be included. I guess it takes one world-weary soul to know another.	2003-09-23
US	51063473	R2IBO9BXZFGPJB	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	74	76	N	Y	A Story of Flawed People Who Together, Made A Masterpiece	The Oxford English Dictionary is an unrivaled monument to the history, beauty and complexity of the English language. The story of the men and women who made this marvelous work makes for compellling reading, especially in the hands of such a skilled storyteller as Simon Winchester.<br />&quot;The Professor and the Madman,&quot; Winchester's first best-seller, was the story of Dr. W.C. Minor, an American who had gone to England in what was a vain hope of regaining his sanity. Instead, he committed a senseless murder, and was imprisoned in an asylum for life. Minor found redemption in his otherwise ruined life by devoting decades of service as a volunteer reader/researcher for the OED.<br />In his introduction to this volume, Winchester explains that an editor at the Oxford University Press suggested that since he had written a footnote to the story of the great enterprise, he might want to undertake the main story. Fortunately for us, he took up the suggestion with enthusiasm.<br />The pace of the narrative never falters in its entire 250 pages. The opening chapter provides a brief overview of the evolution of English and of previous efforts to compile a truly comprehensive dictionary of the language--and why all fell short of that lofty goal.<br />What became the OED enterprise had its origins in the late 1850s, but the first completed dictionary pages did not see the light of day until the early 1880s. Why the project was almost stillborn, how it survived deaths, disorganization, lack of funds and innumerable other setbacks--all of this is brought vividly to life in Winchester's tale. Even when the great editor James Murray took the helm and the project finally emerged from chaos, it still faced obstaces, especially from those who would have sacraficed quality in order to produce a swifter, but less authoratative, final product.<br />Today, the third edition of the OED is in preparation by a staff working in modern offices, making use of all the tools of twenty-first century information technology. The contrast to the conditions facing makers of the original OED, laboring by hand, sorting tens of thousands of slips of paper into pigenhole slots in an ugly, dank corrugated tin shed (grandly named the &quot;Scriptorium&quot; by Murray) is startling, and makes their achievement all the more amazing--and grand.<br />Dr. Minor makes a brief appearance in the story, along with some of the other unusual and exemplary volunteer contributors from around the world who combed nearly 800 years of English literature to give the OED its impressive depth. While none of the other's stories may be quite as extreme as Minor's, it's clear that for many, their involvement in this great cause (with no pay and little recognition) also gave depth and meaning to their lives.<br />It's the vivid, human qualities that Winchester illuminates so well make this a great story...one that you won't want to miss.irst century information technology. The contrast to the conditions facing makers of the original OED, laboring by hand, sorting tens of thousands of slips of paper into pigenhole slots in an ugly, dank corrugated tin shed (grandly named the &quot;Scriptorium&quot; by Murray) is startling, and makes their achievement all the more amazing--and grand.<br />Dr. Minor makes a brief appearance in the story, along with some of the other unusual and exemplary volunteer contributors from around the world who combed nearly 800 years of English literature to give the OED its impressive depth. While none of the other's stories may be quite as extreme as Minor's, it's clear that for many, their involvement in this great cause (with no pay and little recognition) also gave depth and meaning to their lives.<br />It's the vivid, human qualities that Winchester illuminates so well make this a great story...one that you won't want to miss.	2003-09-22
US	51063473	R3K7YI2YV6GUIL	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	3	9	15	N	N	A Compelling Narrative, But Overreaching In Scope	In his previous bestsellers, Jon Krakauer proved that he has the gifts of a first-rate storyteller. He's got a true mastery of vivid, compelling narratives, and he puts that skill to fine use in this book. At the core of the volume is the story of a heinous double murder committed in 1984 by the Lafferty brothers, a pair of Mormon fundamentalists. The narrative of the brothers and their crime is interwoven with the story of the Elizabeth Smart kidnapping (also carried out by a Mormon fundamentalist) and visits to entire communities where polygamy still thrives, despite its disavowal by the mainstream Mormon church and the laws of the United States. By winning the trust of some of the key participants, Krakauer achieves a vivid, \\"you are there\\" feel to the story.<br /><br />The book is subtitled \\"a story of violent faith,\\" and in his search for the roots of this violence, Krakauer also offers us a history of the birth and growth of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. This history seems to focus almost exclusively on the violent side of those early years....from the assassination of founding prophet Joseph Smith to the infamous Mountain Meadows Massacre, which saw a group of Saints, with help from local Indians, brutally wipe out members of a wagon train. Meanwhile, equally compelling but less lurid phases of Mormon history are given short shrift.<br /><br />It's this aspect of the book I found troubling. Even though he makes it clear that the Laffertys and their polygamist associates are not sanctioned in any way by the mainline Mormon church, Krakauer seems to be saying that the few brutal stepchildren of the LDS faith are every bit its founders' heirs as are the peaceful, productive, law-abiding millions who have remained part of the mainstream. I find this as hard to accept as I do that the Taliban should be considered on an equal footing with the millions of non-violent Muslims around the globe. Sadly, every faith seems to attract violent and extreme adherents. But it seems to me that blaming their faith for their violence is much like blaming an illness on a symptom, instead of the other way around.it seems to me that blaming their faith for their violence is much like blaming an illness on a symptom, instead of the other way around.	2003-08-31
US	51063473	R1DTX5KU7HRYB9	0425171698	272514083	The Victorian Internet: The Remarkable Story of the Telegraph and the Nineteenth Century's On-line Pioneers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	History Really Does Repeat Itself!	When I first picked up this book I was intrigued, but a bit skeptical of its premise. \\"The Victorian Internet\\" is a briskly-told history of the creation of the telegraph, focusing more on its human impacts than the technical details; but it also draws amazing paralells between that 19th century communications system and the electronic marvel of the 21st. As I read on, I found myself swayed by author Tom Standage's premise. The telegraph allowed almost instanteous communications across great<br />distances, and revolutionized society in ways undreamed of by its creators. Both mediums spawned new forms of fraud and other crime; both were oversold by their advocates and underestimated by their critics; both created their own subculture of language and practices. Standage is an energetic, colorful storyteller with a gift for making the past come alive. It's worthwhile for anyone with an interest in the history of technology and its impacts on society.	2003-08-31
US	51063473	R36I45RDDO7O7V	0671729713	566834110	Rainy North Woods	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Setting, Great Characters, Great Story	It's one of truisms of the newspaper business that every reporter has an unfinished novel sitting in his bottom desk drawer. Fortunately for lovers of good storytelling, the late Vince Kohler finished his--and three more besides. &quot;Rainy North Woods&quot; is the introductory volume in his series of Eldon Larkin mysteries.<br />Eldon Larkin isn't your typical mystery novel hero. He's a reporter for a small daily newspaper on the Oregon Coast, &quot;The South Coast Sun,&quot; and he dreams more about finding a girlfriend and a car he can rely on than unraveling a big mystery. But when you have a circus elephant stomping a hapless Vietnamese immigrant to death, sightings of Bigfoot and UFOs, and an old-timer of an editor obsessed with &quot;good copy!&quot; what's a reporter going to do? Call the Enquirer? Not on your life!<br />This is literate, witty, humorous story-telling at its best, capturing the true flavor of the craziness that often seeps into these &quot;Rainy North Woods.&quot; I'm grateful Vince Kohler gave us this wonderful book, and three more...and just sorry he left us too soon.<br />Look up a copy. You won't be disappointed!	2003-08-26
US	51063473	RNMSRV9T47T4K	0312283830	642414930	The Moose That Roared: The Story of Jay Ward, Bill Scott, a Flying Squirrel, and a Talking Moose	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hokey Smokes! A Book All About Rocky and Bullwinkle!!!	If you love Rocky, Bullwinkle, Dudley-Do Right, Peabody and Sherman and all their zany, wonderful contemporaries, you must have this book. It's as simple as that! Author Keith Scott combines the passion of a true animation lover with the rigorous attention to detail of a genuine scholar.  This is the most comprehensive history we will likely ever have of Jay Ward Productions, and their wonderful offspring. The story of the Bullwinkle show is the heart of the book, to be sure, but there's also everything you'd want to know about Crusader Rabbit, George of the Jungle, Cap'n Crunch and the talented men and women who created them. Scott had dozens of exclusive interviews and full access to the Ward Productions files.  There are mini-biographies of all the key players, plus an episode guide with voice credits.<br />Keith Scott has reached into his hat...and pulled out a piece of magic, almost as great a treasure as those timeless, wonderful cartoons themselves.	2003-08-25
US	51063473	RVO0PGDGYY7KQ	038079215X	992421771	Slouching Toward Fargo:: A Two-Year Saga Of Sinners And St. Paul Saints At The Bottom Of The Bush Leagues With Bill Murray, Darryl Strawberry, Dakota Sadie And Me	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Book As Wild, Wacky And Wonderful As The Team It Covers	This is one of the funniest books I've read in a long time. Neal Karlen was a writer for Rolling Stone, sent to St. Paul, Minnesota to &quot;get the dirt&quot; on Bill Murray, iconoclastic actor and part owner of the St. Paul Saints. The Saints are a minor league baseball team, part of the independent Northern League, and operated by Mike Veeck, son of the legendary Hall of Famer Bill Veeck. (Casual baseball fans will most likely recall the senior Veeck for having sent midget Eddie Gaedel up to bat as a pinch hitter. It was only one of many colorful stunts by the games' most creative promoter ever).<br />Karlen sticks around for a couple of years; the story for Rolling Stone never materializes, but along the way this book emerges, as much about Karlen's crisis of spirit as it is about the Saints and the zany cast of characters surrounding them. But along the way we meet many of those who have given the Saints and the Northern League their unique cachet: on the field performers like former Mets slugger Darryl Strawberry, who temporarily redeems his life and career during a two-month stay with the Saints; former pitching star Jack Morris, seeking one more taste of glory, but on his terms only; Ila Borders, the first female to play in a professional game; and Wayne &quot;Twig&quot; Terwillliger, player and coach for 50 seasons and quiet representative of so much that's right with the game.<br />There are also wonderful portraits of Sister Rosalind. the nun who offers massages at games; a blind radio announcer convinced he's on his way to the big leagues;  an employee of one of the Saints' rivals who earns the title &quot;Most Beloved Woman in the Northern League&quot; and others who find solace, healing and a chance to keep dreaming dreams in this strange, wacky, wonderful firmamenent. I really hated to come to the end of this one. The empty feeling was almost as bad as the night the World Series ends.	2003-08-25
US	51063473	RP8QNSQHII6NC	0870044249	916758844	Holy Rollers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Story From 100 Years Ago...With A Message For Today	It happened a hundred years ago. But it could be happening right now. \\"Holy Rollers; Murder and Madness in Oregon's Love Cult\\" can be read and appreciated on many levels. On the surface, it's a great true crime potboiler, filled with religion, sex and murder. But its also a cautionary tale about the vulnerability of seemingly normal, well-adjusted people to the seductions of mass insanity. Whether it's Edmund Creffeld in 1905, Adolph Hitler in 1933 or Jim Jones in 1978, we've seen it happen again and again. In fact, the story in this book has a peculiar kind of resonance in that one of the key locations--Waldport, Oregon, also was the place where the Heaven's Gate cult held its first public gathering.<br />Edmund Creffeld was a Salvation Army dropout who arrived in Corvallis, Oregon in 1900 to start a new church. Within a few short years, he had persuaded some of the community's leading citizens--primarily of the female gender--to join his cult of madness. They literally practiced \\"holy rolling,\\" sometimes turning themselves over and over for hours and hours at a time, becoming all the more caught up in the cult of Creffeld's strange personality. Creffeld was tarred and feathered (really!) and run out of town. That didn't stop him, nor did a stretch in the state prison. His ultimate, violent end seems almost foreordained.<br />T. McCracken and Robert Blodgett have combined their talents to produce an amazing story. Thanks to exhaustive research in newspapers and other contemporary sources, they're able to re-create the wild ride of Creffeld and his cult in vivid, day-to-day detail. I finished the book in a single sitting; I predict you will, too.--William C. Hall	2003-08-24
US	51063473	R2519UAPSQLLZB	0805068546	776234809	Dispatches from the Muckdog Gazette: A Mostly Affectionate Account of a Small Town's Fight to Survive	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Caustic But Loving Tale Of A Hometown's Decline	This is a highly passionate and highly entertaining book.  Author Bill Kauffman was born in Batavia, New York, and as the book's jacket copy notes, experienced &quot;a bumpy ride on the Washington, DC fast track.&quot; After that, he knew it was time to return to his roots.<br />&quot;Dispatches&quot; is a celebration of the people and institutions that make Batavia uniquely Batavian, but it's by no means a rose-colored look at small town life. Because he cares so much, Kauffman is unflinching in his criticism of the community when it strays from its history and values. He's particularly eloquent in writing about the destruction of the city's old central business district and its replacement with a soulless mall, the product of misguided urban renewal. He also looks back at Batavia's colorful political history, including its dubious distinction as birthplace of the anti-Masonic movement; chronicles the decline and fall of Carr's, once the town's finest department store, the inevitable victim of the Wal-Marting and KMarting of America; he takes us to the local ballpark to meet the minor league team he grew up with, the Muckdogs. But lest we think the author's love for his community is wavering, we only have to look to this pronouncement: &quot;This is my place, and whatever I might say about it, however caustic or corrosive my pen, I love it and will forever.&quot;<br />&quot;Dispatches From the Muckdog Gazette,&quot; is an eloquent celebration of the power and importance of community spirit.	2003-08-24
US	51063473	R1N2WD8Q2EB09D	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A New Approach To The Grand Old Game...And It Works!	To every rule, there is always the exception. Take the world of major league baseball. With free agency driving player salaries to unbelievable heights, it's an accepted piece of conventional wisdom that only rich teams can be successful today.<br />If that's really true, then why have the Oakland A's, with one of the lowest payrolls in the game, been one of sport's most consistent winners these past few years? That's the question that Michael Lewis answers in this fascinating book. At the heart of the story is the general manager of the A's, Billy Beane. Beane was once a major leaguer himself. He was labeled a &quot;can't miss&quot; star by those who are supposed to be able to predict such things, but ended up achieving marginal success. How Beane is turning the game's accepted notions upside down is the heart of this story.  The 2002 season looked like an impossible one for the A's...they had lost three of their best players to free agency.<br />Everyone thought the game was over them...everyone but Billy Beane.<br />As the book opens, we join Beane and his staff on the day of baseball's amateur draft. We witness the A's enjoy an almost magical success in getting the players they want; in part because few, if any other teams want them. Does Beane know something no one else does? The answer is a qualified yes. It turns out he's putting to work statistical models that have been developed by the writer Bill James and others over the past two decades, This information is widely available and widely known to fans...but given little credence by most of the men who still run the game.<br />As we read on, we learn the logic behind the A's decision to hand their starting first base job to Scott Hatteberg, a former Red Sox catcher who could no longer catch due to an injury; why they coveted Chad Bradford, a pitcher buried in the minors by the White Sox, but who they knew would develop into one of the game's best relievers; why they were willing to trade for all-star second baseman Ray Durham, even though there was no chance they would be able to re-sign him at the end of the season.<br />Lewis' narrative is engaging and vivid. He puts us in the board room and the locker room as the season unfolds. It's a great story, especially for baseball fans, but really worthwhile for anyone intrigued by the idea of what fresh approaches and unconventional thought can bring to an individual or an organization.<br />A grand slam all the way!baseman Ray Durham, even though there was no chance they would be able to re-sign him at the end of the season.<br />Lewis' narrative is engaging and vivid. He puts us in the board room and the locker room as the season unfolds. It's a great story, especially for baseball fans, but really worthwhile for anyone intrigued by the idea of what fresh approaches and unconventional thought can bring to an individual or an organization.<br />A grand slam all the way!	2003-08-17
US	51063473	R3KL3FI38L9WDT	0700608974	671275084	Ernie Pyle's War: America's Eyewitness to World War II (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ernie Pyle Lives Again In This Wonderful Biography	About the only complaint I can offer about this outstanding biography is that the title is slightly misleading. Ernie Pyle's years as a war correspondent are the subject of about three-quarters of the narrative, which is appropriate. It was the period in which he did his greatest work and achieved international fame. But this is more than just the story of those pivotal years; the first 25 percent of the text is an excellent overview of Pyle's childhood on an Indiana farm and his pre-war adventures in journalism, including a six-year stint in the thirties and forties as a kind of Charles Kuralt in print. Pyle and his wife roamed across the nation in their car, and he wrote about the people he encountered along the way--ordinary people, the sort who don't usually find themselves the subject of newspaper articles.<br />When the war came, Pyle knew he had to answer the call to go overseas. But thankfully, he realized that he didn't need to provide the same sort of coverage every other journalist was doing. He would let them handle the stories of the grand strategy, interviewing the generals and prime ministers. He would tell the story of his average Joe, now transformed into G.I. Joe.<br />James Tobin has a wonderful gift for storytelling and description.  He introduces us to Pyle and the key players in his life so vividly we feel that we know them as flesh-and-blood individuals. He quotes from Pyle's works liberally enough that we get a true sense of the man's unique gifts, but not so much that the flow of the story bogs down.<br />This is an almost perfect biography of one of the true greats of 20th century journalism.--William C. Hall	2003-08-17
US	51063473	R1BESJ1SQQ1SQL	0679420118	858814156	A Dangerous Place: California's Unsettling Fate	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Sobering Look At The Inevitable	Think of a writer with an ability to spin a convincing tale of fright, and Stephen King might come to mind. But after reading \\"A Dangerous Place: California's Unsettling Fate,\\" you might want to add Marc Reisner to that list.<br />In this compact volume, Reisner first provides an overview of California's spectacular development from a largely unsettled desert to the most populous state in the nation. The desire for wealth drove the growth of the state's two great metropolitan areas. While gold fever was behind San Francisco's rapid rise, and land speculation fueled Los Angeles' frenetic expansion, the result was the same--two great communities situated atop extremely violent seismic zones.<br />Reisner recounts some of the most spectacular earthquakes of the 19th and 20th centuries in this region. But most frightening of all, at least from this reader's viewpoint, is his account of a disaster yet to be. In a vivid, yet fact-based account Reisner describes a quake that is NOT a worst-case scenario...yet it dwarfs its predecessors in destruction of life and property. Thousands of lives are lost, the damage totals soar into the billions, and even though the site for this hypothetical quake is the bay area, we learn why it will almost certainly have catastrophic consequences for southern California's water supply.<br />Reisner was apparently still working on this book at the time of his death from cancer, so this may be why the ending seems to fall short of a great summing up. Still, his message is clear. When--and it's truly a question of when, not if this disaster strikes--we will face little choice but to rebuild and go on. Our investment in these places is too great to do otherwise. We need to take his cautionary tale to heart, and be prepared as much as we can be for the enormity of the task ahead.	2003-08-11
US	51063473	R2B57DFCDPFQV8	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An Admirable, Balanced Examination of JFK	Presidential historian Robert Dallek has taken on a challenging task in his new biography of John F. Kennedy, \\"An Unfinished Life.\\" Unlike the majority of journalists, academics and others who have written about our 35th president, he comes neither to crucify or deify JFK. His goal is far more difficult: to present a balanced picture of Kennedy's short, event-filled life. This book manages to fulfill that goal admirably.<br /><br />Dallek's narrative is straightforward, and the outlines are familiar; Kennedy's birth as a child of parents quickly moving into prosperity; his years of growing up, dominated by illness and loneliness; his coming to maturity in college; his World War II heroics; his election to Congress and steady pursuit of the top prize in politics, the presidency of the United States.<br /><br />Dallek's evenhandedness is evident throughout his treatment of the major issues Kennedy confronted during his brief, event-filled presidency. He praises his restraint in handling the Cuban Missile Crisis, while also recognizing that it was his missteps in the months leading up to that confrontation that brought the world to the brink of nuclear annihilation in the first place.<br /><br />He conveys the spirit of optimism and vitality JFK brought to the nation, and how the sudden loss of that on November 22nd 1963 was such a shattering event; but Dallek also refuses to minimize or condone the potentially disastrous consequences of Kennedy's sexual recklessness.<br /><br />\\"An Unfinished Life\\" would deserve praise even if Dallek had only provided an evenhanded summary of all the JFK scholarship that's come before. But he has done more here, breaking new ground about the extent of JFK's health troubles. Not only did he suffer from the back problems and Addison's Disease that are now well known, he had a host of other maladies, including chronic colitis, and prostate troubles. The author's admiration for Kennedy's ability to overcome these physical challenges is clear, yet he also tries to come to an objective conclusion to the question of whether these difficulties ever impaired his ability to perform his job.<br /><br />Dallek's prose doesn't soar the way Robert Caro's does in the retelling of Lyndon Johnson's life. But his narrative is clear and easy to follow. He seems to have a knack for selecting the right illustrative quote and weaving it into the text without interrupting the flow.<br /><br />It's doubtless, as Dallek himself concedes, that this will not be the last word on John F. Kennedy. But if you're looking for a nuanced examination of his life and career without heavy pro- or anti-Kennedy bias, there's no better volume right now.to an objective conclusion to the question of whether these difficulties ever impaired his ability to perform his job.    Dallek's prose doesn't soar the way Robert Caro's does in the retelling of Lyndon Johnson's life. But his narrative is clear and easy to follow. He seems to have a knack for selecting the right illustrative quote and weaving it into the text without interrupting the flow.    It's doubtless, as Dallek himself concedes, that this will not be the last word on John F. Kennedy. But if you're looking for a nuanced examination of his life and career without heavy pro- or anti-Kennedy bias, there's no better volume right now.	2003-07-29
US	51063473	R211ARUTA7JSQE	1568582366	243232758	The Spinster and the Prophet: H.G. Wells, Florence Deeks, and the Case of the Plagiarized Text	Books	5	7	13	N	N	A Forgotten Struggle For Literary And Moral Justice	Although largely forgotten today, H.G. Wells' \\"Outline of History\\" was one of the great bestsellers of the post-World War I era. Readers by the thousands eagerly consumed this work, a tale of humankind from the prehistoric era to the present day. Although Wells was a well-established literary figure, he had made his repoutation as a popular novelist; the appearance of the \\"Outline\\" would be somewhat akin to a similar work appearing under the signature of Tom Clancy or Stephen King today.<br />Florence Deeks, meanwhile, was a Canadian woman of no literary reputation or fame. But a few years earlier, she had set for herself the ambitious task of writing a history of humankind, with an emphasis on the contributions of women. She submitted her manuscript for publication, and was surprised to receive it back, rejected, only after an eight-month interval. Even more puzzling was the condition of the document--dogeared, soiled, generally well worn.<br />For Deeks, at least, the mystery was solved when she read a review, which led her to purchase a copy of \\"The Outline of History.\\" It immediately became clear to her that Wells had based his work on hers. Not only was the general structure virtually the same, whole passages were lifted verbatim.<br />The bulk of this well-researched, well-written book is the saga of Deeks' unsucessful, decade-long struggle for justice in the legal system of Canada and the U.K. It becomes sadly, abundantly clear, that the authorities never considered her plagarism suit on its obvious merits. As is so often the case, reputation triumphed over the right.<br />A.B. McKillop has taken a now obscure literary and legal episode and brought it vividly to life again in this outstanding work. McKillop's sympathies are clearly (and correctly) with Deeks, who struggled so long for justice against overwhelming odds. Her telling of the tale is so compelling that the reader is swept up in a sense of outrage, and even though the outcome is foreordained, a wish that somehow things could turn out differently in the end. Sadly, the only true vindication for Deeks is in the pages of this book. But at least posterity will know the true story.--William C. Hallsh that somehow things could turn out differently in the end. Sadly, the only true vindication for Deeks is in the pages of this book. But at least posterity will know the true story.--William C. Hall	2003-07-27
US	51063473	R1KOEAB2MUDJSF	0875952704	712986133	Fire at Eden's Gate: Tom McCall and the Oregon Story	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Tom McCall's Story Is Oregon's Story	More than two decades after his death, almost three decades after he left the governor's office, Tom McCall remains the defining figure of Oregon politics. It was during his tenure in office (1967-1975) that Oregon gained its reputation as a national leader in innovative public policy.<br />The McCall era saw Oregon protect virtually all of its beaches for public use; adopt the first bottle bill in the nation; clean up the Willamette River; adopt the country's first statewide land-use planning system; and much more. Although many of these concepts did not originate with McCall, he was the catylist and provided the leadership to make them a reality.<br />This era is brilliantly chronicled by Brent Walth in &quot;Fire At Eden's Gate.&quot; Walth, a reporter for the Eugene Register-Guard, and now The Oregonian, knows the state and its leadership well, and this allows him to tell the McCall story with comprehensiveness and clarity. But this is more than a political biography; Walth also chronicles the story of McCall's celebrated family (including grandfather Thomas W. Lawson, &quot;the Copper King&quot;), his path to the governor's office, and his sometimes troubled personal life.<br />Anyone interested in understanding Oregon public life in the second half of the 20th century should enjoy and benefit from reading this well-crafted biography.	2003-07-27
US	51063473	RCFFK7DQABN6F	0870043323	743235262	In Search of Western Oregon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Love-Song To A State	Ralph Friedman hitchhiked his way to Oregon in 1933 as a 16-year-old. He spent the next six decades or so lovingly chronicling the unique people and places of his adopted state.<br />&quot;In Search of Western Oregon&quot; is really a culmination of his life's work. Yes, it's structured as a travel guide; but it's also much more. Friedman covers the well-known sites and history, but his clear emphasis is on the forgotten faces and places that are such an essential part of the Beaver State. Many of the photographs in this book are by Friedman's wife, Phoebe, his partner in both life and work.<br />Friedman's earlier &quot;Oregon For The Curious,&quot; also still in print, offers a similar, but less comprehensive, treatment of both halves of the state. Separately, or together, they provide a unique overview of this diverse, beautiful, often still wild state, and the people who have attempted to find a life in harmony with it. It's wonderful for the armchair traveler and invaluable for anyone who has the desire and opportunity to travel off the beaten path.	2003-07-27
US	51063473	RG9P3AZ8SCTVP	0312311044	75565401	My Anecdotal Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Great Journey Down Memory Lane With A Comedy Genius	Genius is easier to recognize than to define. Thankfully, Carl Reiner, one of our true comic geniuses, doesn't try to explain his gifts or the nature of humor in this pleasant memoir...he just tells a couple of dozen wonderful stories about his life, with his own unique brand of joy.<br />If you've loved Reiner's work on movies, TV, records, you should find this to be an enjoyable read. Imagine you've somehow been given the opportunity to spend an evening one-on-one with him, while he recalls some of his memorable adventures. This is not a comprehensive, chronological autobiography; the anecdotes skip back and forth in time and place, much like our own memories. I've always had the feeling that Carl Reiner was a genuinely kind man, full of gratitude for the blessings of family and success; this warmhearted book helps to confirm that belief.	2003-07-26
US	51063473	R1963Y24DZ59SD	1586210548	441021432	The Oldest Rookie: Big-League Dreams from a Small-Town Guy	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Not Great Literature, But A Great Story	Most people will be familiar with the story of Jim Morris from the film, &quot;The Rookie.&quot; In brief: Morris was the son of a career Navy officer who grew up with a single, all-consuming ambition: to play major league baseball. Multiple shoulder and elbow surgeries ended his career while he was in the low minor leagues and in his mid-20s. In the meantime, he had married, become the father of three children, and purused a teaching and coaching career. One fateful day he lectured his baseball team about the importance of pursuing dreams, especially those that seem to be out of reach. His team accepted the message, and he accepted their challenge: If they were to make the state playoffs, he would seek a major league tryout at the ridiculously advanced age of 35. The kids did it...so Morris kept his part of the bargain, expecting it to all be over in a couple of hours. Instead, in defiance of all logic, he found himself throwing faster than he had even before his surgeries. The book ends where the movie did, with his successful major league debut.<br />Some observations about the book and the movie: the film version turns out to be very close to Morris' own story. Morris' isolation while growing up, his often difficult relationship with his parents, all turn out to be true. But while his improbable comeback is the focus of the film, it's only a small portion of the book. This may disappoint some readers, but to me, it added more depth to Morris' story. In the book, he's honest, almost painfully so, about the stresses his marriage endured, in large part due to the pursuit of his dream. I found myself closing this book with a feeling of encouragment and uplift; I think you will too.	2003-07-26
US	51063473	R1QXS2EMAOTCOT	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Important Message For Society	With close to 500 reviews already posted about this book, is there anything new to say? Probably not, but i'll weigh in anyway.<br />The level of response, and the fervor of these responses, both pro and con, indicate to me that Ehrenreich has touched a deep nerve here. For those who criticize the artificial nature of her experiment--picking a strange community, finding a job(s) and a place to rent, and somehow trying to hold together body and soul within her limited means--the author herself acknowledges many of these restraints. Of course, she will never live in the exact same circustances as her subjects...but by working alongside them for weeks, getting to know them as people, she gives voice to a segment of society that is too often ignored. I know many of these people. If not for a modest inheritance, I would probably be one of them too. There are millions of people in this country who are seeing the American Dream moving steadily further and further from their grasp. These aren't addicts, slackers or idlers. They are caring people with friends and families who want to better themselves, but are trapped in a system that, intentionally or not, seems designed to forever defeat them.<br />As powerful as her individual stories are, Ehrenreich does not rely entirely on anecdotes to convey her message...the statistics she uses to butress her case make the depth of this problem clear. May those in a position to move us toward a more humane, more human, system, be moved by the message.	2003-07-15
US	51063473	R2EO5L34ENKEMS	0670032204	842385664	Robert E. Lee (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Admirable Insights Into A Complex Man	Robert E. Lee remains one of the great heroic figures--and one of the great enigmas--of the Civil War era.<br />A host of factors, from his own noble stocism and reticince, to his adoption as a symbol of reconciliation in the decades after the great war, have conspired to rob Lee of much of his humanity. More than 130 years after Lee's death, Roy Blount does a remarkable job of transfusing the blood of life back into the marble man.<br />If you're looking for a comprehensive biography of Lee, Emory Thomas' might be a better choice. But if you're looking for a briefer sketch that manages to cover the outline of his life, while providing some insights to the upbringing, education and other factors that shaped his character, this book is an excellent choice.	2003-07-13
US	51063473	RP4ZSIF4ZEZ3P	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Funny, Educational and Thought-Provoking	Films like &quot;The Trouble With Harry&quot; and &quot;Weekend at Bernie's&quot; have proven that cadavers can be an entertaining subject for the screen. Now, with &quot;Stiff,&quot; Mary Roach has accomplished the same thing in print.<br />From some of the excerpts I'd seen of this book, I almost expected a &quot;Mad&quot; magazine-style approach to the subject. Roach is just as funny, but the humor is accomplishing more sophisticated purposes. Anything we can laugh at obviously can't be too frightening, right? Roach manages to defuse the emotional tension that could build up around this subject, and thus make the tales she has to share easier to face. She manages to be quite amusing, but never at the expense of her inanimate subjects.<br />From anatomy labs to mortuary schools to a Chineese village where human remains were allegedly used to make dumplings, Roach literally takes us around the world as she searches out the heroic, strange and sometimes follish things we do with the mortal remains of others. I was entertained by this book, I learned more than a few things, and I found myself questioning with renewed vigor some of the fears, values and rituals we associate with death.	2003-07-07
US	51063473	R1S6TOBHYTLX8C	0393020290	63178566	Library: An Unquiet History	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	From Alexandria To The Internet...Libraries Through The Ages	Matthew Battles packs a lot of intellectual history between these slim covers. As he notes in his introduction, a comprehensive history of libraries could fill volumes. He does provide, however, a survey of the key points in their evolution. His focus is on the changing role of the library as an intellectual institution, and he explains how someone who shapes a gathering of books, through the selections she makes and the manner of their presentation, is really the author of that collection.<br />One of the more disquieting themes concerns the library as a target, both in wartime and in peace. The enemy, too often, has not been the Nazis or other enemies of thought; many times it has been someone who at first glance, would be assumed to be a friend of intellectual freedom, but in reality was seeking to contain and control it. It was disheartening to read of the destruction of truly irreplacable collections through the ages; yet the ultimate message, despite continuing challenges, seems to be one of the ultimate triumph of the book as a vessel for ideas and the library as a sanctuary for them.<br />Battles works at the rare book library at Harvard, and his passion for books and the life of the mind is evident throughout this well-written volume. A most worthwhile and stimulating read!	2003-07-05
US	51063473	RD1Y8L62981AK	1560254971	435549563	Liverpool Fantasy: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Fantasy For All Beatlefans	As an ardent fan of both the Beatles and the alternate history genre, I couldn't pass this up. I wasn't disappointed. This is an amazing exploration of what the Beatles meant to themselves, to each other, and to the world. I'm not surprised the Publishers Weekly reviewer found it depressing; on the surface, it's a tale of four lives gone wrong, and a world left poorer; but ultimately, I see it as a story about the reedeming power of friendship and of love.<br /><br />The premise is simple: Imagine a world in which the Beatles never developed into the musical and cultural force the world knows so well. In this alternate universe, the band breaks up after the modest success of their first single, \\"Love Me Do.\\" Paul McCartney, under the stage name Paul Montana, still makes it big...but it's a different story for the other three.<br /><br />Kirwan is a musician himself, which means he gets a lot of the small but essential details right; and his knowledge of the Liverpool music scene of the early 60's adds depth to his portrait of the city and its people. (Are you ready for Ringo sitting on on drums for Gerry and the Pacemakers? It's not as jarring as Paul Montana (a.k.a. McCartney) married to....Cher?!)<br /><br />So read this book, think about the transformative power of Beatles music, and give thanks for all they gave us. And thank Larry Kirwan for a great reminder of how precious that gift is.	2003-06-29
US	51063473	R1XFMTZXZB8INT	0231113420	741460417	Breaking the Slump	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Thoughtful Perspective On A Pivotal Era	What made the 1930's such an important era for professional baseball? How did the game evolve as both a sport and a business? How did the developments of this era influence the shape of the game in the decades that followed? These are some of the themes explored by historian and baseball fan Charles Alexander in \\"Breaking The Slump.\\"<br />Alexander's greatest gift seems to be for biography; his lives of John McGraw and Ty Cobb are true standouts in baseball literature. In trying to cover the sweep of an entire decade in this volume, he sometimes loses sight of his larger perspectives, but on balance, this is a very worthwhile effort. Alexander's prose is clear, it flows well, and he does have a knack for digging out forgotten nuggets of the game's history.<br />If you want to know more about the heyday of Hank Greenberg, Jimmie Foxx, Carl Hubbell, Mel Ott and Dizzy Dean, this is a worthwhile, mostly satisfying book.--William C. Hall	2003-06-26
US	51063473	R125AFX5GAU7BK	0141002336	678417912	Casanova Was a Book Lover: And Other Naked Truths Provocative Curiosities abt Writing Selling Reading Books	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Book Dedicated.........To Me! (and to all reviewers)	Mr. Hamilton dedicates this book to all reviewers, on the theory that only someone very ungracious would pan a book dedicated to them. At least in my case, he need not worry. I loved this book.<br />The theme connecting these diverse chapters is the writing, selling and reading of books. Hamilton brings a scholar's learning and a sharp-edged wit to the page, making the journey both educational and fun. Here you'll learn about the most frequently stolen books, why politicians shouldn't write books, what goes on behind the scenes at the Library of Congress, how and why authors abuse dedications and acknowledgements, and lots more. In fact, except for a rather greedy wish for more, I don't see how I could have enjoyed this book to a greater degree.--William C. Hall	2003-06-22
US	51063473	R2O7E7VOC1QU8F	0804746540	481227374	Disaster in Dearborn: The Story of the Edsel (Automotive History and Personalities)	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A Definitive History Of A Failure	I've been fascinated by Edsels since childhood, and while I've never been able to own one, I've collected lots of literature about the most famous flop in automotive history. Although there was familiar material in Mr. Bonsall's work, (the arrival of a new full-sized car just as the first import craze was beginning was the product of a decade-long lead time to launch the new make), there was also much I've never seen in print anywhere before--such as Robert McNamara's statement that the decision to discontinue the Edsel had been made even before its formal introduction! From the company's internal politics, to the design process, to the challenges of setting up the dealer network, no aspect of the Edsel's history is omitted. This profousely illustrated work is an absolute must for Edsel lovers, and should be worthwhile to anyone interested in the Ford Motor Company or automotive history in general.--William C. Hall	2003-06-22
US	51063473	R3B1ITCJI2SPM2	0394720954	741344123	Master Of The Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An Instant Classic	&quot;Master of the Senate,&quot; the third volume in Robert Caro's biography of Lyndon Johnson, is a breathtaking work. Caro brings many talents to the story of LBJ's life; a gift for painting vivid word pictures of people and places; an ability to place events in context; and a clarity of vision that allows him to be unflinchingly honest about his subjects.<br />The book opens with a lengthy history of the Senate, a mini-book in itself, and absolutely vital for the reader's understanding of the institution Johnson came to in 1949 and how truly amazing was his ability to master it. When Senator Richard Russell enters the picture as a significant mentor to Johnson, the narrative is interrupted for a mini-biography of Russell. It's of great value in helping us understand a man who played a pivotal role in Johnson's life and career.<br />The great drama of the book is the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, a measure that might have accomplished little in reality, but carried great weight symbolically as the first piece of civil rights legislation since reconstruction. The story of the that act is largely the story of the man who sheperded it through the Senate, Lyndon Baines Johnson.<br />I've read all of Mr. Caro's LBJ books as soon as they've appeared. I heartily recommend all three of them, but this book stands alone very well on its own merits. For a true understanding of one of the great and tragic figures of 20th century politics, read this book.	2003-06-22
US	51063473	R1ONMARNC6VCYD	0312291566	700980711	The Final Season: Fathers, Sons, and One Last Season in a Classic American Ballpark (Honoring a Detroit Legend)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A Book About A Great Ballpark, And Much More	As a child growing up in the Detroit area, Tom Stanton dreamed about attending every home game of his beloved Tigers. When the dreaded news game that 1999 would be the team's final season in historic Tiger stadium, he decided to make that dream come true. What emerged was much more than just a game-by-game chronicle of what was, on the field anyway, a rather dreary season.<br />This book celebrates the stadium as a place that spanned the generations for countless players and fans. It's about the traditions that tie family and friends together; it's about life, love, loss...all the things in life that truly matter. You'll share this season with Tom, his aging father, and a cast of wonderful people he encounters during that summer, including Al Kaline, Ernie Harwell, Alice Cooper, Al the Usher and dozens more.<br />&quot;The Final Season&quot; won an award as best baseball book of the year. I hope you'll open these pages and learn why.	2003-06-21
US	51063473	R2RK4BPZ6V1LJI	006008197X	90371501	Once Upon a Town: The Miracle of the North Platte Canteen	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Wonderful Tribute To The American Spirit	I was familiar with the story of the North Platte Canteen through my father's own memories (he was one of the six million servicemen who stopped there) and a great feature Charles Kuralt did as part of his &quot;On The Road&quot; series. So I looked forward to this book with eagerness, and was not disappointed.<br />Greene tells the story of the canteen, from the standpoint of both the volunteers who came from all over that part of Nebraska to make the mircale happen; and from the view of the surprised and grateful servicemen. It's a remarkable story that needed to be told, as Greene observed poignantly, before all the participants were gone.<br />At another level, though, the book is a meditation on how the US in general, and small town America in particular, has changed in the decades since the canteen ceased operations. Greene doesn't hammer you with his opinions, but makes it clear that while some things have evolved for the better, we also seem to have lost something priceless. Can it ever be recaptured? I hope you'll read this book and contemplate that question.	2003-06-16
US	51063473	R3Q8DPK7G6KZGA	0142002267	437745521	Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superb....If You're A Word Freak, Or Want To Understand One	Are you the type of person who looks at a newspaper or magazine headline and silently calculates what its score would be on a Scrabble board? Do obscure words and word games fascinate you? If you answered yes, you should love this book. I've been a kitchen table Scrabble player for more than 30 years now, so found this impossible to resist.<br />The author takes us inside the world of competitive Scrabble, where a colorful cast of characters compete for cash, and often, for something deeper...a sense of self-worth, a personal validation. For some of these people, Scrabble is an avocation; for others, who do little but prepare for and compete in these tournaments it's become a way of life. Fatsis manages to portray the eccentricities of his subjects in a sympathetic, non-condescending way. This makes the book quite entertaining...but its also informative as well. You can learn quite a bit about Scrabble strategy, as well as the history of this remarkable game.	2003-06-14
US	51063473	R7VRLGRH6RLM8	0805064583	32369664	Dr. Eckener's Dream Machine: The Great Zeppelin and the Dawn of Air Travel	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A fascinating, superbly written book	I have been fascinated by the age of the rigid airships since childhood, and have read as much as I could find on their history, but I've never come across a book on the subject as well-written or as informative as this one.<br />The Graf Zeppelin's famous flight around the world is the jumping off-point for this story, and the author recreates it in vivid detail. You will find yourself peering out of the gondola with the other passengers as the giant silver bird floats gracefully up into the sky. You will marvel with them at the vastness of the globe below them...the endless Siberian territory, much of it probably never gazed on by human eyes before; the great expanse of the Pacific, never crossed by air before; and on across the great panorama of America.<br />You will relive this historic journey, but you will learn much more. You will travel back to the birth of the rigid airship, the brainchild of the \\"Crazy Count\\" Von Zeppelin; you will learn of its development, its triumphs, its failures, its key role in the First World War. You will follow the story into the Golden Age of the passenger airship, as the Graf under the command of Dr. Eckener explores one new frontier after another; you will understand how the Nazi takeover in Germany changed the nature of the Zeppelin enterprise; and you will see the steps that led to the fiery demise of the passenger airship when the Hindenberg exploded in flames over the landing field at Lakehurst, New Jersey.<br />If you have any sort of interest in airships, you should buy this book. It won't disappoint you!	2003-06-14
US	51063473	R1ZPVSRDNLT2G4	1400046807	841738714	Play by Play: Baseball, Radio, and Life in the Last Chance League	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Pursuit Of A Dream	Neal Conan is really telling two stories here...one is about his season as play-by-play announcer for the Albany Arsenal, the other is about his own mid-life crisis that led him to take a leave from his job at National Public Radio to spend a season as that team's play-by-play announcer.<br />The author introduces us to the manager of the team (major league veteran Darrell Evans) and to the players, none of whom are familiar at the beginning of the tale. That's because independent leagues are dependent on those young men who got sidetracked on the way to The Show...whether there was a flaw in their game or in their personality, they had been tossed aside by the big league organizations, and were out to make the most of one final chance with this independent club.<br />We follow Conan through his shaky start at the beginning of the season, which mirrors the difficult start the team experiences; while Conan steadily gains confidence and skill, it's much more of an up-and-down experience for the Arsenal. This is a thoughtful, sometimes funny, sometimes sad, very human story. I truly enjoyed reliving the year with Conan, and hope you will, too.	2003-06-14
US	51063473	RA9T6M7S7K2NL	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	47	55	N	N	Bill Bryson Hits The Target	Bill Bryson's &quot;Short History&quot; was aimed at people like me, I believe; a humanities major who found the sciences an alien universe, incomprehensible to those who hadn't mastered its formulas and jargon. His three years of reading, research and interviewing has resulted in an accessible, educational, entertaining book that tries to answer some of the most fundamental questions, such as where did the universe come from? and what makes humans human? Bryson was interested not only in what the answers to the questions are, but how we found those answers, and who the people were who unlocked these mysteries.<br />I suspect that those who are well versed in the sciences might find this a bit superficial (after all, the entire story of the universe is a lot to pack into less than 500 pages), but if you're looking to fill in some gaps in your knowledge of our world, this book is for you. Take the journey with Bryson; you'll enjoy the trip.	2003-06-11
US	51063473	R2IGJS2XQDZDQ9	0312303505	621152568	The Road to Cooperstown: A Father, Two Sons, and the Journey of a Lifetime	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One Family's Journey To Baseball's Shrine	I loved this book, and I think most baseball fans will, too. If &quot;Field of Dreams&quot; is your favorite baseball film, if you believe in baseball as poetry, baseball as religion, baseball as the glue binding fathers to sons, then this book is definitely for you.<br />The dream of visiting Cooperstown and the Hall of Fame first took hold of author Tom Stanton in the summer of 1972. His mother's illness prevented the trip from happening then, but an invitation to speak at the shrine after publication of his first book (&quot;The Final Season&quot;) finally made it happen. He asked his father and older brother to join him, the men who first awakened in him the love of the game.<br />Chapters about their trip and the hall itself are interspersed with chapters looking back to 1972. Baseball memories, and the theme of the game as a metaphor for life, provide the interconnecting thread. It's a journey across the miles for the Stantons, but also a journey through the years. I'm glad to have been able to share it with them, and I hope you will, too.	2003-06-07
US	51063473	R1ZM5Y16PLZ840	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Impossible To Put Down...Or To Forget	It's a cliche, perhaps, to describe a well-written work of non-fiction as reading like a novel, but the phrase truly applies to Erik Larson's \\"The Devil in the White City.\\" The dual tale of Daniel Burnham, famed architect and director of wotks for the 1893 World's Fair, and H.H. Holmes, who carried out despicable acts of torture and murder the proverbial stone's throw away from the great event, does seem more like a work of the imagination than a re-telling of things that really happened. But if you have doubts, you need only check the extenstive listing of notes and sources in the back of the book.<br />One note of disappointment I've seen from some reviewers is the fact that the paths of Burnham and Holmes never directly crossed. I think Larson puts it well in the introduction to his notes when he wrote, \\"The juxtaposition of pride and unfathomed evil struck me as offering powerful insights into the nature of men and their ambitions.\\"<br />It's amazing to realize that this fair gave us all kinds of things, from shredded wheat to the Ferris Wheel, that are still part of our everyday lives today. Even though all of this happened more than a century ago, Larson imbues the tale with drama, suspense and brings these men and women back to life with consummate skill. It's a book well worth your time.	2003-06-03
US	51063473	R37H49092GT8YM	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	8	10	N	N	It's A Question Of What You're Looking For	If you glance at some of the other reviews of &quot;Krakatoa,&quot; you'll find some wildly divergent opinions. Some readers have found it dense and boring, while others have been absolutely enthralled by it. I place myself in the latter group.<br />What Simon Winchester had aimed to do (and in my opinion, he succeeds quite well) is to place the cataclysmic eruption of Krakatoa in context. We aren't just given the story of the big, bad volcano that went &quot;boom.&quot; He wants us to understand the basic geology that made it possible, even inevitable for it to have happened. He wants us to know the native peoples and colonizers who lived nearby, and how the eruption forever altered their lives, both in the immediate aftermath, and for the longer term.<br />I am not of a scientific bent, so I admit I found the early chapters to be a bit challenging at times. But Winchester writes with a fluidity that made it possible for me (I think!) to absorb his basic concepts.<br />This is a challenging work, but a rewarding one, and if you approach it with the right mind-set, you shouldn't be disappointed.	2003-06-01
US	51063473	R1W5AVSH1LQFWW	0684856883	66298239	To Conquer the Air : The Wright Brothers and the Great Race for Flight	Books	5	29	31	N	N	The Struggle And Triumph Of The Early Fliers	Imagine a race to achieve a great scientific breakthrough. Imagine this race pits a well-established, well-financed man of reputation against a couple of brothers, unknowns and without formal training or higher education of any kind. Imagine that the brothers, against all odds, emerge triumphant.<br />But your imagination isn't necessary, because this thrilling, dramatic story is true, and it's expertly told by James Tobin in \\"To Conquer The Air.\\" This is the story of the Wright brothers, bicycle shop owners from Dayton, Ohio, who became fascinated by the potential for man to fly. It's also the tale of Samuel Langely, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, who was pursuing his own, ill-fated dreams of flight at the same time. Despite generous backing by the government and private individuals (including his friend, Alexander Graham Bell), Langely wound up the loser in this great competition.<br />Tobin's narrative vividly brings the Wrights, Langely, Bell and the other key players in the first decade of flight back to life. The narrative moves with the briskness of a good adventure story. We share the exhiliaration of the triumphs these man achieve; we're also party to their sorrows at failure.<br />In addition to making these men fully-dimensional, Tobin also manages to recreate the great awe, skepticism and wonder that greeted the inaugural of the age of flight. I can remember my mother telling stories about how, as a girl growing up in a large city in the 1930s, people would still hurry out of their homes to catch a glimpse of an airplane passing overhead. That sense of wonder, long since forgotten, lives once more, and animates these pages.	2003-05-27
US	51063473	R1IO6EJ7KZUWS5	074320106X	426755124	Saving Monticello: The Levy Family's Epic Quest to Rescue the House that Jefferson Built	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Forgotten Chapter of History, Rightly Restored	Everyone who knows the basic history of Monticello knows about Jefferson bringing his young bride to his \\"little mountain\\"; the evolution and growth of the house he was continually tearing down and putting up; his mostly happy retirement there, shadowed by his battles with debt; and finally the end of that magnificent life there on July 4, 1826, fifty years to the day after the young republic had declared its independence with the words from his pen....<br />And we know the magnificently restored estate of today, a beacon for millions of visitors who want to draw closer to that man of countless gifts.....<br />But there's been a missing chapter in the Monticello story for too long; the years from Jefferson's death to its opening to the public have been passed over in most histories with at best, a few paragraphs.<br />\\"Saving Monticello\\" fills that gap perfectly. Here we learn of the estate's decline after Jefferson's death, only arrested with the intervention of the Levy family, who are given their rightful due as stewards of this magnificent property. What happened to Monticello during the Civil War? What were some of the odd uses proposed for it? For answers to these questions and many more, read this well-crafted book.	2003-05-25
US	51063473	R2ROULXKJAHSVM	0375507639	452887148	A Long Way from Home: Growing Up in the American Heartland	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Warm, Winning Memoir	This informal memoir of Brokaw's formative years tell us much about the man who brings us the news today.  The focus is on his parent's lives and the first twenty years of his own life; it's clear that this was the time and place that shaped the values that govern his life--integrity, honesty, a dedication to doing things right. Although the tone is warm and nostalgic throughout, Brokaw does not view the past exclusively through rose-colored glasses; he's quite frank about the discriminaton Native Americans have suffered in his homeland; and he's quite open about a period of his own youth when he strayed off the right path for a while. Casual, nostalgic....a great read!	2003-05-25
US	51063473	R2TM30A5ZXXJ7A	0743233840	464218642	Why Is The Foul Pole Fair?: (Or, Answers to the Baseball Questions Your Dad Hoped You Wouldn't Ask)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Enjoyable Look At The Game Behind The Seams....er, Scenes	This is another in Vince Staten's entertaining and informative books that focus on a slice of Americana--in this case, the grand American game of baseball. I've enjoyed all of Staten's books that I've read so far, this one more than some, I think because of the personal touch he brings to it. His own childhood memories of the game should strike a resonant chord with a couple of generations, and his visit to Riverfront Stadium with his son truly helps us see things from a fan's eye-view. If you've ever wondered what goes on in the press box, why there aren't more concession stands or the technical issues involved in maintaining an infield or manufacturing a ball, you should find this book enjoyable. Staten writing is relaxed, easygoing and liberally sprinkled with humor. A great bedtime read!	2003-05-24
US	51063473	R25GMQIX8GRE0H	0312300336	135249473	Banvard's Folly: Thirteen Tales of People Who Didn't Change the World	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Sypathetic Retelling of Tales of Failure	\\"Banvard's Folly\\" is a wonderful book, thanks to the talents of author Paul Collins. As you have probably gathered by now from other write-ups, this book tells the story of 13 people, once prominent, and now largely forgotten. They each earned inclusion in this book because of a grand failure of some sort. In other hands, this material could have been a tool for ridicule; but Collins strikes just the right tone here. While not forgiving his subjects' excesses or blind spots, he manages to tell their stories with a real sense of empathy. It's obvious that a lot of research went into this volume, but Collins never overpowers the reader with it; each chapter just seems to glide along. If history's lesser lights are of interest to you, you should enjoy this.	2003-05-20
US	51063473	R1KSOJQDH313MP	0393057550	467312085	Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville: A Lifelong Passion for Baseball	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Brilliant Fan's Final Love Letter to the Game	This is a fan's book, in every sense of the term. Thanks to his writings about baseball in such unlikely places as the New York Review of Books, and his appearance in Ken Burns' documentary about the sport, Stephen Jay Gould's position as one of the premiere intellectuals who also happens to love baseball will forever be secure; this collection of works will keep that legacy alive for a new generation. Because these writings are generated from Gould's own love of the sport, the focus tends heavily toward the two teams he spent most of his life watching--the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. And that's fine, because no other two teams have encompassed the heights of triumph and tragedy this sport has to offer. For the non-scientist, Gould may get a bit technical at times, such as his explanation of why the .400 hitter is as extinct as the dinosaurs, but even this journalism major managed to wade through it all. A passionate lovesong to the sport from a fan who left his seat too soon.	2003-05-19
US	51063473	RU3KLVSG157HE	0684873230	581985231	Kingdom of Fear : Loathsome Secrets of a Star-Crossed Child in the Final Days of the American Century	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Earth To Doctor: What Happened?	I have spent more than two decades eagerly awaiting the latest offering from the Godfather of Gonzo, the one and only Dr. Hunter S. Thompson. After finishing \\"Kingdom of Fear,\\" I'm afraid that anticipation will turn to dread, as the good doctor seems destined for a long, ugly slide into self-parody. We're promised a revealing memoir here; instead, we get a mishmash of tales told many times before. There are still flashes of the old Thompson wit and narrative power, but the energy and focus he brought to his classic works of the seventies has long since vanished.	2003-05-19
US	51063473	R31NIYF7BLGCDR	0399149333	685045554	Sam: The Boy Behind the Mask	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Beautiful Story, Beautifully Told	This is a marvelous story of love, devotion and courage. This is the story of Sam Lightner, who has faced more setbacks and pain as a teen than most of us will confront in a lifetime. He's an extraordinary young man, in every sense of the word. Where does this marvelous courage come from? At least in part, from a wonderful family that truly shows the meaning of the term \\"unconditional\\" love. This is also the story of the medical professionals who sought to help Sam, often in the face of opposition from colleagues who said the boy was beyond help.<br />This is also a story marvelously told by Pulitzer Prize winner Tom Hallman. His style is as clear as glass. He has obviously put in long hours to gain the trust of the Lightners and the medical professionals, and has managed to probe beneath the surface to recreate their hopes, doubts and fears at critical moments during the story. Yet, except for the afterword, Hallman never writes in the first person. Throughout this narrative, he is the unseen observer, who has the grace, humility and good sense to let the story unfold on its own terms.	2003-05-18
US	51063473	R29PMODG5JD8ER	0316279722	135747598	The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Repetitive and Disappointing	\\"The Punch\\" left me disappointed. John Fenistein is a fine writer, but this book struck me as very repetitive in places....he's trying to give us the story of \\"the punch\\" from the angles of several of the participants, but the effect just doesn't come off. Give him credit for winning the confidence of Kermit Washington, Rudy T. and all the lesser players in this infamous incident, and all more points for trying to put the incident in a larger perspective, but what could have been a very fine book comes off as mediocre instead.	2003-05-18
US	51063473	RVYZX6Z54KSVF	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A Small, Polished Gem Of A Book	Few marathoners are equally adept at the 100-yard dash. But happily, David Halberstam has proven himself to be the literary world's exception to this rule. He may have built his reputation with such weighty works as \\"The Best and the Brightest\\" and \\"The Powers That Be,\\" but he's proven himself equally adept at the kind of narrative, while smaller in scope, that can be equally illuminating of the human condition.<br />At the heart of this book is the story of the six decades of freindship between four teammates on the Boston Red Sox--Ted Williams, Bobby Doerr, Dominic DiMaggio and Johnny Pesky. The narrative is framed around a journey by car DiMaggio and Pesky take from New England to Florida in the fall of 2001 for what they know will be their final visit with the dying Williams. (Doerr was unable to join them because of his wife's illness.) This trip provides the framework for Halberstam to introduce us to these four extraordinary men and the bonds that have linked them together.<br /><br />I've read, and enjoyed, all of Mr. Halberstam's sports books. \\"Teammates,\\" to me, though, is more closely akin to his most recent work, \\"Firehouse.\\" In each case, he's telling the stories of men bound together for a common purpose and the relationships that are nurtured and cultivated in such settings. \\"Teammates\\" is a beautifly told story of the journeys of these four Red Sox heroes...from the dawn of their lives to the sunsets. Not to be missed!--William C. Hall	2003-05-18
US	51063473	R1R7908PW0WJ81	0394576284	877241160	Wild Bill: The Legend and Life of William O. Douglas	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Fine Book, But Maybe Needs A Little More Balance	Bruce Allen Murphy's \\"Wild Bill\\" left me feeling conflicted. Unlike the other reviewers so far, I can't say I loved the book, or that I hated it. Murphy's research is exhaustive and impressive, and his narrative powers do make the amazing story of Douglas' life read more like a novel. He deserves much credit for peeling away the layers of myth that Douglas laid over the true story of his life. At the end, though, I came away feeling that the good that Douglas accomplished somehow got lost in the bargain. There must have been some reason a couple of generations looked to him as a champion of individual liberties. It's there, all right, but it seems to almost disappear in an ocean of negatives. Overall, though, the good outweighs the flaws; this is a worthwhile book for anyone who wants to know more about Douglas, the Supreme Court, or one of the most tumultuous eras in American life.	2003-05-18
US	51063473	R1F48PLJG9N6ZV	0151006288	250407107	October Men: Reggie Jackson, George Steinbrenner, Billy Martin, and the Yankees' Miraculous Finish in 1978	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Not Another "Boys Of Summer" But It's Not Trying To Be	I imagine it must be both a blessing and a curse to have written the Greatest Baseball Book of All Time. A blessing, from the outer recognition and inner satisfaction such an achievement brings; and a curse, because every time you again put ink to paper, your new child will be measured against your most successful offspring.<br />I read the review stating that Roger Kahn's \\"October Men\\" is in the tradition of \\"Boys of Summer\\" and I ask in wonder if that writer read the earlier work. The first third of \\"Boys\\" is Kahn's memoir of growing up in Brooklyn as a Dodger fan, then covering the great team of 1952-53; but the heart of the book is his story of revisiting these men in middle age as they cope with life's challenges. Kahn himself said it's not a book about baseball but about \\"time and what time does to us all.\\" A true classic, and deservedly so.<br />That being said, the focus of \\"October Men\\" is on the wild, raucous Yankees of 1977-78. Although there are notations on what's happened to many of those Yanks in the quarter century that's passed, the spotlight is clearly on those two wild seasons. And that's just fine. It's a great story, and Kahn brings all his observational and descriptive skills to bear in telling it with insight, humor, and narrative power. Anyone who lived through that era should enjoy having it brought back to life so vividly; and for those youngsters who may wonder what all the fuss was about involving George and Billy and Reggie and Thurman and crew, there's no better introduction to their story.	2003-05-18
US	51063473	R2KTIS22EPWMQX	1582342849	537404137	Sixpence House: Lost in A Town Of Books	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	An Absolute Delight	I fell in love with \\"Sixpence House\\" from the opening pages. It's not a travelogue, yet it gives the reader a wonderful sense of the place called Hay-on-Wye; it's not a guidebook for those publishing their first book, although we do share some of the labor pangs as Collins' first tome, the also wonderful \\"Banvard's Folly\\" advances to press; and it's not a compendium of unusual finds in forgotten books, though you'll find plenty of these here. If you demand a straightforward, linear sort of narrative, you might not love this. But if you enjoy sharing the keen intellect, thrill of discovery and gentle, wry wit of another bibliophile, you most certainly will. No lover of the printed word should pass it by.	2003-04-13
US	51063473	R1JCA9R9HZFGCT	0803270372	729292349	The Celebrant: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Not To Be Missed	There's a reason this book shows up on almost every list of the very best baseball books...it is. It works wonderfully at so many levels...from bringing the bawdy days of Mathewson and McGraw to life again...to a deeply searching examination of the price of hero worship....and a gripping narrative besides. Get this book and journey back in time...you'll find yourself in the crowd, cheering on Matty, \\"master of them all.\\"	2002-03-05
